
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 25. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1896. No. I.


CONTENTS:
	Utah Federation Of Woman’s Clubs. A 
Tribute To Sister Peterson. Leaves From My
Journal—Kim. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—
M. L. Morris. U. W. P. C. S. L. Co. W. S. A.
—L. S. Wilcox. Armenia. R. S. And P. A. Re-
ports. In Memoriam. Conference Of The N. A.
W. S. A.
	EDITORIAL:—The World In Commotion.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—June—E. B. W. A Congratulation—
Emily H. Woodmansee. The Spring Of 1896—
M. E. T. Griffeth. Fanny’s Baby—Lydia D.
Alder.


JUNE. 
The breath of June is in the air, 
And that exquisite fragrance rare, 
That thrills the soul with glad delight, 
And over all the verdant land, 
Beauty hath waved her magic wand. 
And earth is bathed in radiant light. 

The forest songsters tune their lays, 
And thro' the woodland, wilding ways, 
Or fields and meadows, gay with flowr’s, 
Their melody in chorus sweet,
Makes earth seem fairly-land complete, 
A foretaste of fair Eden’s bow’rs.
The June of life again we feel,
And softly o’er our senses steal, 
The calmness, and the sweet repose. 
Rejuvenating all our powers, 
And the glad muse of summer hours,
Within the heart of sunshine glows. 

The sunsets’ blaze of colors bright
Pales to an amethystine light, 
As gently falls the evening dew, 
And mellow moonlight softly sheds,
Its healing balm on aching heads
And stars bespangle heavn’s pale blue. 

Such respite from life’s toil and woe,
Is given us, while here below
As visions, of the world unseen;
To stimulate our lives to bear, 
The ills and griefs, we needs must share, 
Until we reach the heights serene. 

O, how we long to climb those hills,
And quaff from out the sparkling rills, 
The honeyed nectar of our youth;
For there it flows in limpid streams, 
Of which our fancy only dreams, 
Springing from wells of living truth. 

O nights of June! Fairer than all!
From out the silence voices call, 
In echoes from the fountains deep, 
Or from the far-off woods and vales, 
Or distant seas, whose mournful wails, 
Tell where the dead, unnumber’d sleep.
June, 1896 E. B. W.


PARIS, May 29.—M. Gaston Bruno
Paulin Paris, the French philologist, has
 been elected to the seat in the French
academy rendered vacant, by the death of
Alexander Dumas.


A CONGRATULATION.

[To my venerated friends Brother and Sister
Horne on the sixtieth anniversary of their
Wedding Day.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Happy their fate, who truly mate, 
	Who wear the yoke, that love makes light,
Who joyfully can celebrate
	Their marriage day, and count it bright;
But few are favor’d thus to see—
Its sixtieth anniversary.

Exactly, one decade ago,
	Upon your golden wedding day;
Your friends, a happy overflow,
	The old and young, the grave and gay
Met ’neath your sheltering roof—to share
The joy of that occasion rare.

Since then, a host of friends have died,
	And many strange events we’ve seen,
Unlooked for woes have multiplied,
	And life an uphill road has been,
And every one must needs confess,
All things are shaken, more or less.

Whether or no, ’tis so designed
	As Saints believe, and scoffers doubt,
Amid the general strife we find
	That something good, has been wrought out,
And Zion! Once “the trodden down”
	Is gaining favor and renown.

Now, unto Zion, are secured
	Great Rights, withheld, in days gone by—
No longer friendless and obscur’d,
	But like a "lily set on high” 
Or like a bright attractive star,
	Lo! Zion’s light, shines forth afar.

So visible to eyes unshut
	Is God’s own marvelous enterprise;
“The Stone” from out the mountain cut,
	Is rolling on and gaining size,
A Nucleus, gath’ring power apace,
	To fill the earth, and bless the race.

And you my friends, who from the first,
	Dared to espouse the cause of Truth?
Who many times have braved the worst,
	In Truth’s defense, are glad forsooth
To know that come, whatever, may—
	Established Truth, on earth will stay.

Especially you can rejoice,
	That sons and daughters ’round you throng.
That each and all with heart and voice,
	Are helping Zion’s cause along,
Truth’s representatives are they,
Who bear your honored name today.

Albeit, that you’re greatly blest
	Perchance, like other folk you’re tried,
Earth is not yet a place of rest,
	Nor are we all yet sanctified;
And trouble, bolder than before,
Walks in, at nearly every door.

Yet side by side, in woe or weal, 
	Linked hand and heart, along you go,
As happily united still,
	As in youth’s early morning glow
And may you hence enjoy—I pray—
An everlasting wedding day.
May 9, 1896.


UTAH FEDERATION OF WOMAN’S
CLUBS.

	THE third annual convention of the Utah
Federation of Women’s Clubs was held in
Unity Hall in this City, Wednesday and
Thursday May 20 and 21, meeting com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and at 2 p.m. of each
day. President Emma J. McVicker pre-
sided, Miss Emma McCornick acted as
secretary. Wednesday morning was de-
voted exclusively to business. The Presi-
dent appointed a credential committee.
Mesdames Green of Provo, Bannister of
Ogden and La Barthe of this City. 
	Committee on organization Mrs. E.
B. Wells chairman, reported one
club organized during the past year. The
Federation elected Mrs. Corinne M. Allen
as its representative at the annual meeting
of the General Federation at Louisville. 
REAPERS’ CLUB.
	REPORT of the Reapers’ Club read at the
Stake Federation of Clubs, Salt Lake City, 
May 20th, 1896. By Romania B. Pratt.
The Reapers Club is now in its fourth year
of useful instruction, with a membership
roll of forty-three, and an average atten-
dance of twenty-five. It convenes every
two weeks at the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
parlors, on Monday afternoon. The course
of study is Miscellany, Literature, Political 
Science and Current Events. The club
color is red and the badge is a wheat head. 
	The President and Secretary retire at
each meeting inviting two members to fill
these positions, to promote general education
in presiding and taking notes. Under the
head of Current Literature there have been
written and commented upon about twenty
sketches of the lives and works of noted
novelists, poets, philosophers, divines
theorists, musicians and artists. 
	The later sessions have been devoted to
the Study of Political Science followed by
questions and discussion. 
	The object of this club is social and in-
tellectual development. Its design is to
cultivate the heart as well as the brain
which will form a good mental equilibrium
and fit woman not only to shine as a greater
light around her own hearthstone, but to be
a more efficient custodian of home interests
in the wider domain of the world. 
	Progress is improvement upon the past;
and the study of the lives and works of
eminent men and women who have lived
before us or are contemporary, stimulates
to emulation. 
	The club women of Utah are the high
priestessess at the altar of the home, often
consecrated to plain living but also to high
thinking, where the noblest ideals are cher-
ished and where money is not King. 
	The Reapers Club of busy and earnest
women is as a small streamlet singing a
glad song of pride and thankfulness as it
glides into the larger stream of the State
Federation, and with it sweeps into the
General Federation of Woman’s Clubs,
helping to create a mighty force of womanly
power which will raise the standard of mor-


[Column 1]
als in the world and spiritualize and refine
the material and physical in man and thus
hasten the era of peace on earth and good
will to all men.
	The women of the Reapers’ Club do not
intend to be gleaners only from the good
works of others, but hope through industry,
to leave to posterity a legacy of their own
noble thoughts and improved methods of
life, that it may truly be said of them that
"the world is better for their having lived
in it.” 
	The women of the Reapers Club aim to
grasp the sickle of industry and enter the
fields of science and knowledge to reap and
bind into sheaves, golden truths, with
which to store the granaries of the intellect
as food for thought and action in a daily
progressive life, in all that is helpful and
uplifting to the human race.
	Mrs. J. M. Kimball, of Ogden, reported
La Coterie, of which we have no synopsis.
Mrs. Elmer B. Jones of Salt Lake and
	Mrs. E. B. Graham of Ogden were nomi-
nated as the first and second choice for state
correspondents of the General Federation
	Mrs. W. C. Jennings was elected Utah
Correspondent for the Lotus, the official
organ of Women’s Clubs.
	The Author’s Club of Salt Lake was ad-
mitted to membership, its delegate in the
convention was Augusta W. Grant. This
closed the business meeting.
	Tempting lunch was served in the par-
lors of the hall by Salt Lake club women;
all the visiting delegates were entertained
as also all the Presidents and delegates of
the City Clubs.
	The afternoon session opened with an ad-
dress of welcome by Mrs. E. La Barthe
who extended to all a cordial welcome.
	Madame President, Delegates to the Fed-
eration, Visitors from Neighboring Cities,
Friends:—It is my pleasure in behalf of the
home clubs to bid you welcome—welcome
to the metropolis of Utah—Salt Lake City.
	Welcome to the capital of this young
State, within whose domain assembled not
long since a memorable convention, the
record of which shall go down to posterity
as having granted the privilege of suffrage
to women, and which State, it is hoped,
with our help will soon enter upon a new
career of purer politics and better govern-
ment.
	Welcome to the birthplace of the first wo-
man’s club of the far West. In this beauti-
ful valley, nearly a score of years ago was
organized the incipiency of today’s auspici-
ous gathering, many of the devoted mem-
bers of which unite in sending you greeting.
	Welcome to the cause for which you have
come. The State Federation stands a con-
necting link between individual clubs and
the General Federation. New clubs are con-
stantly coming into existence. In some
States the increase is phenomenal. Utah is
doing its share. They are organized on an
independent basis; arrange a plan of work
and bring results to the State gathering.
The practical interests of women are multi-
plying so rapidly that only in this way can
we follow them and give their value to the
world.
	Welcome to this Federation, which is
paramount in importance to any preceding
one, because it is the first and largest as-
semblage of women in the new State. It
should establish our ability to perform a
part more vital and more dignified in the
large affairs of  our time; it should secure

[Column 2]
us leadership in matters now pressing for
action in our State. We represent the wo-
men of Utah, of diverse ages, tastes and
faith, banded together by common interest
in all that pertains to the advancement and
progress of women. Greeting to you is
universal. Moroni from the Temple’s
highest pinnacle trumpets it; the Blind
Goddess surmounting our city and county’s
pride justifies it; the eagle from our city
gate screams it; the flag from our Govern-
ment building, our club home on Fifth
East flaunts it; the signal guns at Fort
Douglas boom your welcome. All nature
is in unison; the birds sing it, the blossoms,
flowers and foliage lend their incense; the
wind whispers it, while we proclaim it is a
joy to have you with us; we are proud to
do you honor; the proceedings to follow
shall be inspired by your presence; we
esteem it a privilege to proffer our hos-
pitality. Again, we bid you sincere and
heartfelt welcome.
	In reply to Mrs. La Barthe’s cordiality,
Mrs. McVicker, as president of the Federa-
tion, said:
	Ladies of the Salt Lake Clubs; In behalf
of the Utah Federation of Women’s Clubs
I respond to your cordial welcome. I assure
you that we appreciate most deeply your
care and labor in providing for our comfort
and enjoyment while here, but especially do
we feel your generous words of encourage-
ment and appreciation of our great work of
advancing the intellectual, social and moral
development of the women of Utah.
	May we attain to the high standard you
have outlined for us, and our efforts be felt
for good in all that concerns our new State.
	It is said that all good things come by
threes. It is certain that the triad in music
is the foundation of all harmony. In the
triad of club organization our State Federa-
tion represents the mediant, the individual
club being the tonic and the general Federa-
tion the dominant. As there can be no
harmony without the gentle mediant, lying
between the strong foundation tone and the
imperial fifth, so may the State Federation
fill its appropriate mission of bringing the
individual clubs into accord with the great
dominant Federation. Thus shall the full
harmony swell and roll until it floods all
parts of our land.
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: I have the
honor of representing the Utah Woman’s
Press Club. Since making our last report
to this noted organization, we have made
most gratifying progress, having admitted
during the past year many new members
all bright, active workers, ladies of high
literary taste and talents.
	We do not limit our membership, one of
the primary objects of our organization be-
ing to encourage young writers and culti-
vate all their literary possibilities, our hon-
ored president being an adept in bringing
out latent talent. Although many of the
results would not perhaps shine with
Shakespearean brilliancy yet we have
listened to many choice thoughts that
would otherwise never had birth. Our
motto is “The most good to the greatest
number." Our membership not being con-
fined to the environs of Salt Lake City
only, but extending through the domain of
the State of Utah.
	In reviewing our past year’s work one is
surprised with the amount of original work
done by this club, the greater part of every 

[Column 3]
session being devoted to this line of work.
	Our subjects for consideration and dis-
cussion have been historical, biographical,
scientific, poetical and polit cal. We have
debated the “Double money standard for
America,” the “Single tax” question, and
have recently formulated a plan for the
study of Parliamentary Law.
	Our meetings are held but once a month
unless called by the President for the
transaction of business.
	According to our by-laws we elect officers
once a year, no one is permitted to hold an
office longer than two successive years, thus
giving the greater number the opportunity
for the experience.
	During the past year it has been our
privilege to entertain a number of notable
people. In August last the gentlemen of
the local press courteously invited the Wo-
man’s Press Club to assist in entertaining
the Convention of Western editors then
enroute for the Pacific Coast. The Misses
Chase of Massachusetts gave us a glowing
description of their foreign travels in various
parts of the world; also Dr. Sarah J. Elliot
who awakened in our minds many
new ideas by her life-drawn pictures of the
noble self-sacrificing labors of Miss Clara
Barton. Mrs. Laura M. Johns the suffrage
speaker and organizer was also entertained
by us quite recently, and last though far
from least—the officers of the Utah Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs, by special invita-
tion honored us with their presence.
	Frequently is our club entertained most
bounteously at the homes of its members,
thus fostering a spirit of sociability which
in our case is the main-spring of love and
unity, this in turn being the true secret of
strength and power.
	In closing we would express as the senti-
ment of the Utah Woman’s Press Club:
The press—the friend of justice and reason,
the best exponent of virtue and a potent
subduer of vice—the promoter of intelli-
gence, knowledge and education. As
Phillips has said: “From the hour printing
was invented the brain and not the arm,
the thinker and not the soldier, books and
not kings, were to rule the world. Weap-
ons forged in the mind, keen-edged and
brighter than the sunbeam were to supplant
the sword and the battleax.”


WOMAN S EXPONENT


MINUTES of meeting held in WOMAN'S
EXPONENT Office, May 19, 1896, Mrs.
Kate Groesbeck in the chair. Sang, “Help
the working women.” Prayer by Mrs.
Oswald. Sang’ “Columbia’s daughters.”
Minutes of last meeting read and approved;
after which the secretary read a lecture on
townships from Kirke’s Civil Government.
The president made some remark on Civil
Government and spoke about holding parlor
meetings, thought that the ladies could ex-
press their views better in an informal meet-
ing than they could in the regular meeting.
Mrs. J. Fewson Smith made some remarks
on common law. Mrs. Grames read from
Roberts rules of order. C. Newman
read the Constitution of W. S. A. of Utah
and also read the article from the Hartford
daily times on “Universal Suffrage” by
Elizabeth Burrill Curtis. The President
favored taking the study of Woman’s
Manual of Parliamentary Law. A parlor
meeting was appointed to be held two
weeks from date at Mrs. Newman’s home.
Adjourned for one month. Benediction by
Mrs. Holling.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE SPRING OF 1896.
WHEN it is evening, ye say: It will be fair weather
	For the sky is red,
And in the morning, it will be foul weather
	Today, for the sky is red and lowering.

March did not come in like a gentle lamb;
	And it left like a roaring lion;
But we expected storms for ’tis well known
	March is not a month to rely on,

But we thought perchance that April,
	The month for shine and showers,
Would gladden earth with warmth enough
	To bring forth waiting flowers.

But we never thought that May time
	Would bring us frost and snow;
For surely if we harvest
	We must have time to sow.

The sun has gone down in splendor,
	The morning brought forth rain,
The clouds have hung low in the morning,
	Ere night we had sunshine again.

The bow of the moon would hold the horn, 
	Yet sunshine has come with the rain;
So what e’er our faith in by-gone years
	We cannot trust the moon again.

The Snipe’s sad cry more rain, more rain
	Has been answered with Meadowlarks thrill;
And in spite of frost, hail and snow,
	The grass and wee blossoms still

Have been growing; and green is showing
	All through the furrowed field:
And yester the bow of promise
	Gave hope for a harvest yield.

We had better be up and doing;
	“Improve the shining hours”
If God wills that we must have rain
	We should work between the showers.
						M. E. T. Griffeth. 
Fairview, Idaho.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL. 
	PARIS, Oct. 13, 1895. A merry party
left Hotel Central for the depot, taking the
first class “Raapide” at 9 a. m. for
Marsailles, going via Dijon, Macon and
Lyons. The train was most comfortable
with conveniences such as we have at home,
but divided into compartments, our party
had two, we had our meals aboard, lunch
and dinner being excellent. We drank
mineral water which I did not like. We
passed some beautiful scenery and saw
many vineyards. Dijon is now the centre
of trade for the wines of Upper Burgundy.
Arrived just at nightfall at Lyons, the
capital of the department, of the Rhone,
situated on the tongue of land, inclosed
between the Rhone and the Saone. We
saw from the windows the lighted city,
the Church of Notre Dame de Tourvieres.
A square which we supposed was that of
Louis le Grand, and the quays along the
Rhone, the lamps were numerous so we
could see very well, and regretted not stop-
ping a day to visit the manufactories and
the Palais de Beaux Arts which contains
interesting Roman Antiquities. 
	At eleven p. m. we arrived at Marsailles
the city was “en fete” the scene very gay
the square was beautiful with lights, flowers
tropical plants and fruits, the people were
singing and laughing and serving refresh-
ments. The soldiers were preparing to sail
for Algiers, on the morrow, and seemed as
happy as if going on a pleasure trip.
	We drove to Grand Hotel de Noailles,
the entrance to court is beautiful with

[Column 2]
palms and potted plants, and as we always
find in France, the hotel is most comfortable
the beds and rooms delightfully clean; it is
a pleasure to rest in them. Much fatigued
we all retired. 
	Friday, 14th Oct. Directly after we had
finished our breakfast, Mr. Mc V. ordered
carriages and we drove about the city.
Marsailles, is an ancient city being founded
by the Phoceians 600 B. C., in S. France,
the capital of the department of the months
of the Rhone—on the Meditteranean, and 
on the east coast of the Gulf of Lyons, en-
closed by a succession of rocky hills extend-
ing in the form of a crescent, until each
extremity reaches the sea. The form of
the city is nearly square; it is surrounded by
walls and separated into the Old and New
town by “one of the finest streets in
Europe.” The Old town has mean and
dirty streets—the New, is beautiful and
much like Paris, the Hotel de Ville, is an
architectural beauty—the Ancient Cathedral
is Gothic and said to have been built on the
ruins of a temple of Diana. The public
library is large and there are cabinets of
natural history, botanical gardens, and an
observatory, the Arch erected by Nap. I.
is very beautiful and much like those of
Paris, the Water Castle and fountain is of
extreme beauty and must be seen to be ap-
preciated. Next we drove to the water, the
Port of Marsailles, is called a Salt Water
Lake, and is completely sheltered from all
winds. The entrance does not exceed a
hundred yards, being confined by two pro-
jecting rocks, one on each side; on which
are situated two forts—for its defence, it is
protected by other works and completely
surrounded by quays; in driving on the
street fronting the entrance our guide told
us, when the mistrel wind blows, 'twas
said a battalion of men standing two
abreast could not stand against it; from
here we had our first peep at the Meditter-
ranean, and a magnificent view of the Bay
and Islands—the water was beautifully
blue and not a puff of wind to tell us of the
“Mistral.” On the hill to the south of the
Harbor, is a place of pilgrimage, The
old church has been replaced by a modern
building, Byzantine style, on the facade is
a belfry one hundred and fifty feet high,
surmounted by a statue of the Virgin, one
hundred and forty steps leads to the lower
church, one hundred and seventy four to
the upper—the view repays one for the
climb—the view at the foot is magnificent. 
The Church of St. Victor is beautiful and
in front is a bronze statue “by Reams,”
of M. de Belyunce, in prayer. The
Marsailles good bishop, celebrated by
Pope,” who during the plague 1720 re-
mained performing the solemn duties of his
office. At noon we left this most interest-
ing city with a wish to see it again.
	Taking the train for Cannes the journey
was short and interesting, we had exquisite
bits of landscapes and the Islands and bits
of water views equally as beautiful—while
passing the stations there were pretty little 
flower gardens and well dressed people wait-
ing for the trains; the air was perfumed but
all was not clover—we saw many and
varied scenes, not so entrancing. Soon we
reached our station and climbing  into a
dillegance, we drove up, up the hill each
turn revealing more beautiful views of
villas, landscape, gardens, flower spread
banks, and the “Sea—reflecting the azure
of a matchless sky,” the party exhausted,
the adjectives, ere we reached, Hotel de

[stamped below the second column]
HISTORIAN'S OFFICE LIBRARY
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
23963

[Column 3]
Prince of Wales. When we smiled to hear
Mr. B. exclaim, “O, beautiful Dublin, you
are eclipsed by Cannes, with the roses, the
palms, the oranges and lemons the superb
views, the beautiful Bay, let us go home
Mollie while we can carry with us the
beauty of the scene, the fragrance of the
flowers and the music of the birds, it will
all be obliterated by musty tombs, when we
reach Rome.” The hotel was on the slope
of a hill, nestled in flowers and tropical
fruits, the palms the most perfect I ever
saw. Cannes is beautifully situated on the
Bay of the same name; from my window
the view of City and Bay was delightful,
we had perfect weather and flowers and
fruit in abundance; this is a great resort for 
invalids, but it seemed to me the perfume
was oppressive and it was too warm for
comfort. Many wealthy people have
beautiful residences here to avoid the rigors
of winter. 
	’Twas here Bonaparte landed on 1st of
March 1815, on his return from Elba. 
	The promenades are delightful, with the
orange palm, and pepper trees lining the
walk. 
	At night some musicians came and sang
delightfully among them, one song heard
iu Venice, “Jammo, Jammo, Ncoppa
Jammo, ja,” and is the one the Italians sing
as they ascend Mt. Vesuvius.
							KIM.


ADDRESS TO RELIEF SOCIETY.

	To the Relief Society of Centerville. I
ask you to pardon me if I may appear to be
obtrusive in the liberty I have taken, by ad-
dressing you in this manner. While at the
Relief Society union today I was impressed
with a very pleasant feeling of pleasure,
which is characteristic of this organization.
It was not only a repetition of what I al-
ways enjoy at these meetings, but while
there I was led to reflect upon the object of
the Relief Society and what it has done, I
think language will fail me, but still
enough can be said, to encourage the sisters
in that noble work. In the language of
scripture, to feed the hungry, clothe the
naked, to nurse and administer to the sick
embraces the highest point of the moral
law that can be expected of humanity; the
fact of which, is so well acknowledged by
all sects, all creeds, and all people whether
Christian or barbarian; and woman, with
her feminine nature and her sympathetic
feelings has so well adapted her for the
position that she has done her work so well
that it really appears to be one of the great
est essentials to human happiness. She has
labored for 6000 years in the good work
and no wonder that the Prophet Joseph
Smith was inspired to organize the Relief
Society, as he saw how much more good
could be done in a united capacity; may
the organization always have that support
that they deserve, and now the franchise
has been given her, it is to be hoped her
new obligations may not lessen her useful
ness in her acts of mercy nor burden her
with life’s cares, that she may not share in
all that pertains to human happiness. I be-
lieve with suffrage, woman will be able to
extend her usefulness in helping to improve
the civil affairs of society in other ways,
beside relieving the needy, and so far as
patronage in civil government she will find
every place for which she i[-] by nature and
qualification adapted.
JOHN WAYMAN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
eoace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
				SALT LAKE CITY JUNE, 1, 1896.


THE WORLD IN COMMOTION.

	THE world at large was never in greater
commotion than at the present time; even
although desolating wars are not raging so
extensively as at some periods, yet there
are wars of various kinds, of the elements
of earth and air, and of men’s unbridled
passions fearful and terrible calamities,
cyclones, floods, disasters by sea, and on
land, until the very atmosphere seems
freighted heavily with destructive forces of
many kinds. In view of all these things 
one is forced to contemplate causes, and to
look forward to results; to contrast that
which exists today with the history of the
past, and compare it with the outlook for
the future of the world. Verily knowledge
increaseth and wisdom hideth itself, for
“Knowledge is proud that he has learned so much
Wisdom is humble that he knows no more.”
	Looking at the events transpiring around
the world today, one must necessarily feel
that with all the boasted knowledge of this
century of civilization, the hidden paths of
wisdom are obscure, and only found by a
few, who look upward for light and search
after eternal truth, as the prophets of old
and who were despised and scoffed at, but
whose words were revered by later genera-
tions, and if one would profit by such les-
sons he must beseech the Lord in all
humility for guidance.
	The signs of the times warn those who
have studied the Scriptures and believe in
the fulfillment of prophecy not only that
“in the last days perilous times shall come”
but that such perilous times have already
come, and such wide spread destruction
that men’s hearts quake for fear, and it is a
vexation to read of these things, and how
much more so when they are where one
must needs see, and feel them. It certainly
does not seem to be a time of rejoicing,
when notwithstanding the efforts made by
philanthropists and reformers to create an
era of peace, the facts prove that “there is
no peace,” because of the wickedness that
stalks broadcast and must of necessity pro-
voke the vengeance of the Almighty, who
delights not in unrighteousness, and who
will not be mocked.
	The terrible cyclone in St. Louis, the
terrific tornadoes in Texas, in Ohio and in
Kansas, the disastrous fire in Philadelphia
which incurred loss of life as well as
property, the burning of Cripple Creek,
Colorado all these fatalities seem near
enough to strike home to the hearts of all
who are interested in current events. The


political disturbances which have been fer-
menting, and likely to culminate in the dis-
ruption of the old parties, one cannot help
deploring, even though Utah the new star
in the horizon of the Western empire may
remain secure and undisturbed; surely one
cannot help realizing she has come into her
proud estate on the eve of dangerous times
to the nation, of which her people have been
so proud. But the hopeful should look for
a happy outcome from this agitation and
commotion. The women of Utah who
have just come into their political rights,
should be calm and dignified in the midst
of the tumult of ideas and opinions, and ex-
ercise such prudence and caution in times of
disorder and confusion, as will entitle them
to respect at home and admiration from all
who desire to see order come out of chaos.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE poem by Lydia D. Alder entitled,
“Mormon Tabernacle Choir in California,”
“A story in verse” is a recital of the visit
of the choir to the Pacific Coast, and very
appropriately dedicated to Professor Evan
Stephens, their leader. It is a booklet of
sixteen pages, fine clear type and very good
paper. A colored paper cover tied
with ribbon, gives it the appearance of what
it really is, a souvenir of the Choir’s visit to
the land of the golden gate. The poem is
divided under several sub-headings THE
JOURNEY, SAN FRANCISCO, DEL MONTE,
MONTEREY, HOMEWARD. It is quite unique
in delineation and very smoothly written,
one or two quotations break the rhythm of
the composition, but these were necessary
to make it correct in detail. The choir
should acknowledge the merit of the work,
and each have a copy as it is a historical poem
of their entire trip, and will thus be pre-
served much better than a newspaper article.
The booklet is for sale at the office of the
Juvenile Instructor and at this office, 10 cts.
per copy.
	THE First Commencement Recital of the
Utah School of Elocution was held at the
Social Hall on Friday evening June 12, 1896.
The graduates were Rose Anna Cannon,
Salt Lake City, and Anna Elizabeth Spencer,
Draper. The opening musical exercise
violin and piano duet by Katharine Rom-
ney and Dorothy Cannon was very effective.
Miss R. A. Cannon’s rendering of the
“Monks Magnificat” a brilliant success.
“Molly” by Miss Spencer and “An Old
Sweetheart of Mine” by Miss Cannon, were
very pleasing; but that which gave the best
idea of their excellent work was “The
Apple of Life” by Miss Spencer and Ten-
nyson’s “Maud” by Miss Cannon. Other
selections were successfully rendered and
the entire program was well carried out;
that the young ladies were beautiful and the
stage artistically decorated and managed it
is needless to say. Miss Babcock made a-
few remarks and explanations at the close,
and in a very graceful manner gave the
finishing touch to the entertainment by
awarding the certificates.
	THE closing school exercises during the
month of June have been more than usually
interesting, and the public schools of the
City have been written up in the daily
papers elaborately. The schools in the
Country districts compare very favorably
with those in the City. In Farmer’s Ward
the average attainments were high, and the
exhibition given in the evening was cer-

[Column 2]
tainly worthy of mention. The operatta
chosen was “Red Ridinghood” and the
rendering reflected great credit upon both
teachers and children. The singing was
specially fine in some parts and  the little
“tots” carried out their part of the program
wonderfully well. The recitations were
very creditable, Master Geo. Q. Cannon
gave a Military poem, and Master Eugene
Sears “Life’s Game of Ball.” Mr. Short, Miss
Burnett, Miss Wade and other teachers
deserve great credit for their careful train-
ing of the little ones in their parts to bring
them out so successfully.
	THE article by W. S. Harwood in the
May number of the North American Re-
view is being quoted by the newspapers of the
day and commented upon, as against women
knowing their true positton and standing
according to the XIV amendment to the
Constitution. Now the facts are that wo-
men throughout the country knew how the
law stood and tested it to its full extent.
Miss Anthony tried the fourteenth amend-
ment thoroughly, even to imprisonment for
attempting to vote. The Supreme court of
the United States decided this point long
ago, and from that court there is no other
appeal. This subject has come up in every
Convention which has been held in Wash-
ington for a number of years, and it is very
amusing that one of the greatest magazines
in America should publish the article. As
to women’s votes being counted out when
voting for a President the fact has been
proven, and a precedent established when
the women voted in the state of Wyoming.


FANNY’S BABY.

FANNY'S babe is sweetly sleeping
Cease O, cease your tears and weeping,
His spirit’s in the angels keeping
	Up among the stars!
Where he waits to see your coming
	Peeping through the golden bars.

Baby’s resting from his playing
	Softly in his bed he’s laying,
And the angel’s voice is saying
	“Softly sleep, softly sleep,”
Here the roses all are blooming
	Some for the baby we will keep!

Hark! The angel’s faintly singing
On the air the notes are ringing—
Up and down they now are bringing
	Garlands for the baby’s brow.
“Softly sleep, softly sleep,”
	Baby’s with the angels now.

Closed his eyes where love was beaming
And the happy smile was gleaming
Earthly joy is only seeming
	But the rest is sure and sweet,
Baby’s happy, baby’s singing
	Baby and his Grandma meet.

Beauteous blossoms by the Reaper,
Oft are gathered, like the sleeper;
Taken home where love is deeper
	Sheltered safe from every storm.
Choicest flowers are early gathered
	Placed where south winds, blow so warm.

Darling Fanny, safe’s your treasure,
	Where love abounds without a measure,
And life flows on with heavenly pleasure,
	Where rarest joys are now complete.
Lift your heart and eyes to Heaven,
	List! Your baby coo’s so sweet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


There the links that here are broken
Are joined in Heaven, and by this token
We know that Christ to us hath spoken
	‘‘Let the little ones, come to me”
Up among the shining mansions
	In God’s kingdom they will be.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Sunday, June 7th, 1896.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Hall April 18, 1896.
President M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Singing “Come come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Margaret F. Steele. Neither of the
secretaries being present Julia C. Howe
read the minutes of previous meeting which
were approved and Mary L. Morris acted
as secretary. 
	President Horne addressed the sisters;
spoke of having been absent from the
meetings some weeks on account of sick-
ness in the family, desired to fill her mis-
sion as a teacher in Israel, wished to be
humble and bear her part acceptably before
God, urged the sisters to be very watchful,
“Satan does not sleep, we are having an
easy time and we must be the more diligent,
easiness is dangerous; there are trials ahead
both for men and women, but the spirit of
God will guide us aright, we are to be tried
in all things, the time is not far distant 
when the dividing line will come, trials are
friends in disguise, let us be careful lest
after we have taught others, we may be a
castaway. Just as soon as we become lifted
up we are in great danger. I have lived to
see Counselors of the Prophet Joseph re-
moved, let us not speak against the Lord’s
anointed, whatever we think, let us not
speak it;” spoke of lying reports and lying
spirits, referred to the Lord wanting to
punish Ahab; also spoke of Job and a coun-
cil held in heaven and of Satan wanting to 
save people in their sins.
	Mary L. Morris followed bearing testi-
mony and speaking of the Gospel being
free to all, but they must come in at
the door, as we had done.
	E. J. Stevenson spoke of the sacred
minutes taken by the secretary Eliza R.
Snow, when the Prophet organized the
Relief Society, remembered Sister Horne’s
teaching when she carried her babies in her
arms, and could never, no, never forget it,
asked the sisters to pray for Sister Horne
and Sister Zina and cherish the sweet in-
fluence they felt in that house.
	Sister Francis, “let us be one, if we are
not united, the evil one will creep in among
us, made other good remarks. Sister Burns,
“let us honor the priesthood, I love to read
the Bible, my mother taught me to read a
little every day, and I found that the min-
isters of the sects of the day could not
answer my questions. I read the book of 
Mormon on my knees and asked God to
show me if it was true, he answered my
prayer. Miss Glade testified that she had
been a witness that the dead had been
raised, urged the sisters to keep the Word
of Wisdom strictly. Agnes Hunter testi-
fied to what Miss Glade had said, also said
that as soon as she received the Gospel she
had the spirit of gathering to Zion.
	Jeannette Morris, bore testimony to all
Sister Horne had said, “there is nothing
outside of the Gospel, God is no respector
of persons, the truth is free to all.” Isabel
Workman testified of being raised from al-
most death; when the consecrated oil

[Column 2]
touched her head, it was like electricity;
her son too had been raised from a very
low condition, spoke of the Word of
Wisdom and that the desire for tea had been
taken from her.
	Elmina S. Taylor, President of the
Y. L. M. I. A., said she had been blest in
attending the General Conference, referred
to evil speaking, especially against the
priesthood, knew our leaders were men of
God, and that we did not have to put out
our hands to steady the ark, said there
would be a greater apostacy than ever had
been.
	President Horne made closing remarks.
Sang “Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.”
Benediction by Julia C. Howe.
				M. L. MORRIS, Sec. pro-tem.


A TRIBUTE TO SISTER PETERSON

Dear Sister Wells:
	AGAIN I feel it my painful duty to say a
few words in regard to the departure of my
beloved friend and counselor, Sister S. A.
Peterson, so closely following our mutual
friend and co-laborer Sister M. W. Snow
whose death she mourned and wrote me her
deep sympathies for my bereavement.
Little did I then suppose she would so
soon leave me, to stand alone!
	Sister Peterson was true and faithful
under all circumstances and ever ready to
assist the poor and comfort the afflicted and
her loss will be felt by many. She was
devoted to her husband President C. Peter-
son and their numerous family who love and
reverence her memory, besides being a
public benefactor and visiting all the settle-
ments in the stake once or twice a year, feel-
ing an interest in every one’s welfare.
	I cannot express the desolation I felt in
being deprived of this my valued friend
and only remaining counselor. I feel to
acknowlege the hand of the Lord in this
His dispensation, for He doeth all things
well, "Blessed be the name of the Lord."
MARY A. P. HYDE.
May 27th, 1896.


U. W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club met at
the office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Wednesday evening, June 3rd, 1896,
President E. B. Wells in the chair. Opened
with prayer by Mrs. C. C. R. Wells.
Minutes of previous meeting read and with
two exceptions approved. The exceptions
were that Miss Barton president of the Red
Cross society be mentioned by her full
name Clara Barton. Also that Mrs. Brown
who wrote the club, the interesting letter
from Washington D. C. be mentioned by
her full name Isabella Cameron Brown. A
visitor to the club for the evening was Miss
Sybil Stewart. Mrs. Emma J. McVicker
was unanimously voted a member of the
Club. Ruth M. Fox moved that Dr. R.
B. Pratt be chairman of a new program
committee and select her aids. Motion
carried. Dr. Pratt chose Dr. E. B. Fergu-
son and Phoebe C. Young as members of
the Committee.
	Phoebe C. Young read an interesting
paper on “The Armenians,” which will be
published.
	Remarks on the subject were made by
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Dr. Ferguson and others.
Meeting adjourned until June 30th, 8 p. m.
Closing prayer by Dr. R. B. Pratt.
L. S. WILCOX, Sec. pro tem.


Program for June 30th, 8 p. m,— Senti-
ments from Sir Walter Scott. Poem by
Dr. E. R. Shipp. Mrs. McVicker—verbal
account of visit to Denver. Mrs. Lizzie
Wilcox to read a chapter of Parliamentary
Law. Discussion.


MRS. HOWE TO YOUNG PEOPLE.

	AT a Young Peoples Meeting held
in Boston, Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, presi-
dent of the Association, occupied the chair
and made a graceful and appropriate ex-
tempore address. She said:
	“In introducing these young exponents
of our cause, I am acting as a sort of grand-
mother to the meeting. I hope you will
all agree with the little girl who said she
thought that grandmothers were a “good
plan.” It ought to be so, for one genera-
tion is lifted on the shoulders of the one
that goes before it. Mr. Bronson Alcott
once said, at a meeting, that he was weighed
down by the sins of the generations that
had gone before him, and I sprang up and
protested that I could not hear my ances-
tors thus maligned. I felt lifted up and in-
spired by the good deeds of my ancestors.
When girls first went to college they had to
endure dreadful prognostications by Presi-
dent Elliot and others. They were warned
of ‘downward influences’ and it was
feared that they would ‘lower the standard
of scholarship.’ These young men and wo-
men will show to-night how unnecessary
were these forebodings. We need their
presence. Hope springs eternal in the
hearts of youth. They are filled with the
splendid courage that conquers the world.
They bring back the freshness of our ideals,
grown dusty in our years of conflict. To-
night we shall gather great hope and en-
couragement from their voices.”


S. L. CO. W. S. A. 

	MINUTES of meeting held in fourteenth
Ward hall, April 21st. Sang “America."
Prayer by Mrs. McFarlane. Roll call.
Minutes of last meeting read and approved:
after which Miss Elliot, of New York,
spoke of her experiences in the East both
in politics and religion. Speaking of
politics, she said that it is the fad of the
hour in society in New York at the present
time. And Susan B. Anthony who was
received indifferently at first and later re-
ceived respectfully, was now sought after
by fashionable New York to speak at their
parties and dinners. She said that the eyes
of the whole world were on Utah and her
people at the present time: and that we
could not fully realize the advantage we
have over the women in the east. She
spoke at some length of the political situa-
tion in New York and of the thousands of
men of foreign birth who could not speak
the English language, who were allowed to
cast their vote and were willing to sell it
for twenty five cents while a woman of
education and superior intellect had no
voice in the matter. The average American
boy imbibes politics all his life while the
girls must be taught, and in no country in
the world do women have the opportunity
to teach them that the women of Utah
have. We must go ahead and interest
every women in Utah in the study of
political science. Benediction by Mrs.
Oswald.


167 <
> WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	ARMENIA.

	BY PHŒBE C. YOUNG.

	ARMENIA is,according to ancient tradition,
the original seat of one of the oldest civilized
people in the world; they claim
to be descended from Haik; whom they
say was the son of Tagarmah the son of
Gomer, the son of Japheth, the son of
Noah. He according to their tradition
established the Armenian kingdom in the
vicinity of Ararat the mountain on which
the Ark is said to have rested after the
flood; this was done at an uncertain date,
but is supposed to be about two thousand
years before the Christian Era.
	As a race they belong to the Indo
Germanic family of nations. The country
they possess is a high table land on the
southern slope of the Caucasus stretching
down towards Mesopotamia though its
boundaries have been changed many times
during the centuries of its history. Its
area is estimated at ninety thousand square
miles. Their oldest records contain noth-
ing beyond the facts that in ancient time
they were governed by independent kings
and afterwards became tributary to the
Assyrians and Medes,a fact that established
their antiquity as a nation in which it is
difficult to tell where myth ends and
history begins. We learn that about the
middle of the sixth century before Christ a
certain king Dikran of the Haiig dynasty
restored the independence of the kingdom,
the last king of this line was slain in battle
by Alexander the great, who conquered the
country and appointed Governors over it;
it is impossible in the space of one short
article to give even a faint description of the
changes and vicissitudes through which
Armenia passed through the next six hun-
dred years. Its subsequent history
exhibits an unbroken series of tumults and
wars; of violent successions to the throne;
despotic reigns and rapid decay. Subject
to the vigorous assaults of the Parthians
from the East and the more powerful
Romans from the West, “they sometimes
become partly dependent on one nation
and sometimes on the other. While in-
ternally the Nobles often broke through the
restraints of a feeble monarchy and claimed
the privileges of petty kings.”
	In six hundred thirty two the unhappy
country was subject to another form of
despotism under the Arabian Califs and
suffered terribly during their contest with
the Byzantine emperors. The rule of the
Sassanides was marked chiefly by their
sanguinary but unsuccessful attempts to
extirpate Christanity.
	The Byzantine Greeks on one side and
the Persians on the other seemed to regard
Armenia as their lawful or unlawful prey.
	In eight hundred and eighty five Aschod
of an old and powerful Armenian family
ascended the throne with the permission of
the Califs and founded the third Armenian
Dynasty; under this monarch and his suc- 
cessors Armenia was prosperous till the
eleventh century when divisions and inter-
nal strife began to weaken the country;
till at length the Greeks having murdered
the last monarch of the line seized part of the
kingdom, while the Turks and Kurds made
themselves masters of the rest.
	In thirteen hundred seventy four Asia
Minor was conquered by the Egyptian Sul-
tan Schalean, since that time Armenia has
remained subject to the despotism of the
Turks and Persians with the exception of

[Column 2]
the parts won from Persia in the present
century by Russia, and which are better
governed.
	Notwithstanding the political storms and
the persecutions passed through by this
much enduring people they have steadily
persevered their nationality both in its
physical and moral lineaments. They
have preserved their faith, although and
through persecution,oppression and sorrow;
they only possess to day a relic of their
ancient culture; they can still boast a higher
civilization than their conquerors. In con-
sequence of the great disturbances and
religious persecutions of the middle ages,
many of the Armenians sought refuge in
other countries and we find them scattered
over all Asia and Europe; in Hungary, in
Transylvania and Galicia they number over
ten thousand and they are very numerous
in Russia, but most in Asia Minor, in that
neighborhood alone they number over two
hundred thousand. The north east portion
of Armenia, about one third of the whole
was wrested from Persia by Russia in 1828
and is under the rule of the Czar which is to
be preferred to that of the Turk. About
a sixth part to the south east still belongs to
Persia, two thirds of the Armenian area is
Turkish.
	After the war of 1877—78 between
Russia and Turkey the Berlin conference
sanctioned the session of a strip of Armenia
to Russia, and the Sultan of Turkey under-
took to guarantee the Armenians security
against the Circassians and Kurds, also to
report to the European powers the measures
taken for much needed reforms. It is need-
less to say that this promise has been broken
in every particular.
	Christianity was introduced into Armenia
as early as the second century, but not
firmly established till about the third
century. It afterwards became the centre
of a great controversy regarding the two-
fold nature of Christ. Numbers of learned
men flocked to their colleges because of the
spirit of scientific inquiry that early mani-
fested itself among them, to a far greater
extent than in any other of the Eastern
Churches. The Bible was translated into
the Armenian language early in the fifth
century which was no doubt the reason of
the religious fervor that prevailed.
	Great efforts have been made, and great
influence has been brought at different
times to bear, to induce this people to ac-
knowledge the supremacy and infallibility
of the Popes of Rome, such efforts have
always failed, for notwithstanding all
changes the masses of the people have re-
mained true to their own peculiar opinions.
The Armenian Church entertains peculiar
ideas with regard to what is called the
seven sacraments. “They believe that at
baptism one must be sprinkled three times
and as often immersed. That confirmation
must be conjoined with baptism; that the
Lord’s supper must be celebrated with pure
wine and leavened bread, that the bread
must be dipped in the wine before being
handed round; that extreme unction is to
be administered to the Priests alone, and
that not before but after death. It also be-
lieves in the worship of Saints but not in
the doctrine of purgatory; secular Priests
must marry once, but none are at liberty to
marry a second time.”
	As a race the Armenians are remarkable
for their physical beauty and intelligence,
this last is noticable both in their literature
and their great capacity for business; in fact,

[Column 3]
this is so well known that they are employed
by all the leading business houses of Con-
stantinople, whenever men are needed for
positions of trust and dexterity in business.
It has been remarked that however much
the Armenians may be scattered in what-
ever countries they may be found; the
printing office is always a leading feature in
their colonies.
	The Armenian women as a rule are fine-
looking with intelligent faces and womanly
bearing. It is a well known fact that
among the Oriental races the women as they
advance in age become decrepit and lose
every vestige of beauty before we should
consider they had arrived at middle age.
	This is not the case with Armenian wo-
men as they increase in years their intel-
ligence and good looks become more mani-
fest. The history of the Armenians during
the last twenty years has been a series of
suffering,oppression and misrule; subject to
a nation “whose government is said to be a
praise to evil doers and a terror to those
who do well.”
	For notwithstanding the promise of the
Sultan at the treaty of Berlin to prevent
and punish the depredation of the Kurds
and to rectify the abuses of the Government
their condition far from growing better has
been growing steadily worse. We are
naturally led to inquire the causes that have
brought about the existing state of events
that are occuring in Armenia. One of
these reasons seems to be the greater educa-
tion and growing sentiment of independence
and nationality among the Armenians
themselves and “though they desire to lead
a peaceful life, peace is something they are
forbidden to enjoy.”
	[To be Continued.]


R. S. & P. A. REPORTS.

	THE Primary Conference of Bear Lake
Stake convened at St. Charles, May 30,
1896, President Annie Laker presiding.
Verbal reports of the different associations
throughout the stake were listened to with
great interest, showing that the work is in
a prosperous condition. After which an
interesting program was rendered by the
children. The general instructions were
good. Large attendance present. 
	NORA PUGMIRE, Sec.

BBAR LAKE STAKE.
	THE Bear Lake Stake Relief Socitey
convened in the St. Charles meeting house,
May 30th, 1896. Of the Stake presidency
there were Brother William L. Rich and
J. W. Stucki present. President Linsday
presided: after the usual opening exercises
and the roll was called. She made a few
opening remarks in which she said the ob-
ject of the conferences was to hear from the
presidents, the condition of their associa-
tion and also to be enabled to give such
counsel as our Heavenly Father and the
presiding sisters desired to impart, for the
mutual good and benefit of the sisters in
Zion. She trusted we might hear such
things as would cause us to return to our
homes with renewed energy and strength to
perform our duties.
	The following associations were then re-
ported as in good condition. 
	St. Charles was reported by President
Galloway. Fish Haven, President Howell;
Garden City, Counselor A. Cook; Wood-


ruff, President Sessions; Bloomington,
Counselor Patterson; Wardburra, President
Dalrymple; Dingle, Sister Jane Sparks;
Montpelier, Sister [-]. P. Linsday; Benning-
ton, President Vanorman, Georgetown,
Sister Bee; Thomas Fork, Counselor
Cook.
	Counselor L. M. Hart spoke of the duties
of the members of the Relief Society, urged
the sisters to gain a testimony of the truth
of the great work, for the time is coming
when those only who have this testimony
will be enabled to stand the trials that are
coming upon this people, spoke also of the
necessity of educating the young in the
principles of the Gospel. Brother J. W.
Stucki gave the sisters encouragment,
spoke of the aid they were to the Bishops
of the different wards, not only in caring for
the poor and sick, but in their willingness
to donate to all charitable purposes. Spoke
of the advantages of the young people,
much would be expected of the present
generation.
	An Organ Solo was then rendered by
Mr. A. Osband. President Laker of the
Primary spoke of the strong bond of friend-
ship that existed between the sisters who
were laboring together in the different as-
sociations. Meeting adjourned by singing
"Praise The Lord." Benediction Elder
Laker.
	At 2 p. m. The choir sang, "O Lord
our help." Prayer b[-] Brother J. Stucki
Singing, "My Lord the light of all my
Life." While the sacrament was ad-
ministered the choir sang sacramental hymn.
Several associations were then reported all
of which were doing a good work.
	President Lindsay was overjoyed to see
so many out considering the rainy weather
and very bad roads. She felt satisfied with
the improvement that was being made.
The Saints had much to be thankful for.
Spoke of the judgments of God that would
come upon the wicked; urged the Saints to
live in such a way that God would see fit to
preserve us from these judgments, said we
should awake to a sense of our duties, in-
voked the blessing of God upon all.
President Nancy Pugmire, of the Young
Ladies Associations felt that the remarks
that had been made were good and timely,
spoke at some length on the needs of do-
mestic economy, this is something that is
neglected too much in the homes of the
Latter day Saints. President W. L. Rich
endorsed the remarks of the previous
speakers, thought if the speakers depended
on inspiration they never sit down without
saying something that would be beneficial
to some one. The minutes of the meeting
were read and received, after which confer-
ence was adjourned by the choir singing an
anthem. ‘‘They that trust in the Lord.”
Benediction by President W. L. Rich.
ROSE HILLIER, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT 168 <
>


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED at her home in Manti, of old age, on
March 4th, 1896.
	Emeline Whiting Cox. Deceased was the
daughter of Elisha Whiting and Sally Hewlitt
who were natives of Vermont, but removed to
Nelson, Portage Co. Ohio, in the early settlement
of that state where the subject of this sketch was
born July 23, 1817
	In 1835 she was married to Frederick Walter
Cox. Sometime after she and her husband em-
braced the Gospel and removed to Far West, Mo.
They endured all the persecutions, hardships and
privations to which the Saints were subjected dur-
ing their residence in that state.
	Brother Cox, being a man of great faith and

[Column 2]
marked ability, was frequently called to perform
missions in different parts of the United States,
consequently his wife was often left to care for
her little ones alone, but as she was a woman of
rare executive ability, and by nature specially
adapted to the care of children, she performed
these duties wisely and well.
	After being driven from Missouri, they settled
in Lima where they remained for nearly six years,
but were finally driven from their home which to-
gether with their stacks of grain out buildings
&c, were burned to the ground before their eyes,
leaving the family almost penniless but glad to
escape with their lives.
	They next settled in Nauvoo, but before a year
had passed were again compelled to move, this
time they took up their line of march towards the
setting sun.
	At the next halting place Mt. Pisgah, Sister
Cox had more than her full share of the sickness
and sorrow which seemed to be the portion of the
Saints during their soiourn at that place.
	Her beloved father and mother and two of her
own little daughters all within the space of a few
weeks followed each other to the grave and while
she was sick—indeed so low that her life was
despaired of, Br. Cox was making the coffins for
these little ones and bearing them in his own
arms to the grave.
	They afterwards removed to Council Bluffs—
where they were called to part with another
child, this time their infant boy.
	In the spring of 1852 Brother Cox and his
family crossed the Missouri River and began their
long wearisome journey across the plains.
	On the banks of the Platte River another little
daughter was born, who lived and prospered in
spite of the unfavorable circumstances attending
her advent.
	On the 4th of October 1852, Sister Cox once
more found a resting place in Manti, where she
has since resided ever helping in a heroic manner
to bear the hardships and burdens incident to a
pioneer life in a hostile Indian country.
	In the spring of 1863 Brother Cox was called to
take a mission to England, in August her last
child a little girl was born, and eighteen months
later Sister Cox was afflicted with a cancer, the
removal of which almost cost her, her life and
the following summer when the baby was two
years old she was called from earth thus adding
another grievous trial which was greatly aggra-
vated by the absence of the husband and father.
Sister Cox was an exemplary wife and mother a
faithful friend, and a conscientious Latter-day
Saint.
	She was a woman of intelligence, and refine-
ment, an agreeable companion with a keen sense
of humor and an inexhaustible fund of anecdote
and reminiscenses of her early life.
	She was the mother of twelve children—eight
of whom survive her—their respect and love for
her was unbounded and of her it can be truly
said “Her children rise up and call her blessed”—
and also that she has fought the good fight, has
kept the faith and has gone to receive the reward
which her long years of trial, toil and sacrifice
entitle her to; her remains were tenderly borne to
their last resting place by her grandsons who hold
her memory in grateful remembrance.
	After life’s fitful fever she sleeps well.
COM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect adopted by the W. H.
P. R. Class in memory of Sister Rachel Ann
Gatherum, the beloved wife of John Gatherum
who was born in Heber City, Wasatch Co., May
29th 1865 and departed this life April 20th, 1896.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called from
our midst one of our faithful members, we desire
to offer our sympathies and condolence to the hus-
band and friends of deceased, for she was a duti-
ful daughter, a devoted wife, and a loving
mother, ever seeking to implant faith and purity
in the hearts of her children.
	Resolved that we, the officers a[-]d members of
our association do recognize in her death the loss
of an energetic co-laborer, whose example was
ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of our association and a copy be sent
to the husband and family.

His home she enters there to be a light
Shining within when all without is night
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding
Doubling his pleasures and all his cares dividing.

Winning him back when mingling in the throng
From a vain world we love alas too long

[Column 3]
To fireside happiness and hours of ease
Blessed with that charm the certainty to please.

How oft her eyes read his, her gentle mind
To all his wishes all his thoughts inclined,
Still subject, ever on the watch to borrow
Mirth of his mirth, sorrow of his sorrow.

EMILY G. CLUFF, President.
SARAH L. DIXON, Coun.
DELIA I. BOOTH,
OLIVE BEAN,
H. A. KELLER.
}Committee.
["}Committee." is written to the left of the three lines above it]

	REBECCA HEATON NEBEKER, wife of Henry
Nebeker, and daughter of William and Frances
Heaton departed this life April 24, 1896, at Sigurd
Sevier Co, Utah. She was born Feb. 28, 1834, at
Little Orton, Yorkshire England. She joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
her native land; emigrated to Utan in 1862. In
1865 she married Henry Nebeker at Payson, Utah
Co. One year later they were called to help set-
tle the Muddy Mission, where they remained un-
til the mission was broken up in 1870. In that
year they removed to Glenwood, Sevier Co. where
they remained four years. In that Ward she held
the office of Counselor to the President of the
Reliet Society.
	In the winter of 1874 she came to Sigurd form-
erly part of Vermillion Ward, where she has
since resided. She was chosen President of the
Relief Society of the Vermillion Ward Feb. 17,
1887, which position she filled with honor until
the division of the Ward in 1895. At that time
she was called to the presidency in the Sigurd
Society which position she held at the time of her
death. She had also been a Sunday School
teacher for many years, and was prominent in
public circles. Was ever ready to minister to the
poor and needy; had ever a comforting word for
the distressed. The cause of death was quick
consumption. She was the mother of seven
children, six of whom are still living. She had
eleven grand-children and one great-grand-child.
She died surrounded by her children, brother,
sisters and other relatives and leaves behind a
numerous host of friends to mourn her departure.
She died faithful to the Gospel and in the hope of
a glorious resurrection.
PAULINE LARSON DASTRUP.
Sigurd, Sevier Co. Utah. May 19, 1896.

	IN memory of Sister Ovilla Levitt Brown who
died April 20th 1896, aged sixty seven years one
month and nine days, and daughter of John and
Lucy Levitt, she was born in Habley Co. Sher-
brook Canada and removed with her parents
when nine years old to Kirtland Ohio. Married
Brother Philander Brown, Oct. 13, 1848, at Cam-
bray, Hillside Co. Michigan and was baptized at
Council Bluffs in 1858, by Elder William Folsom,
resided in Farmington, Davis Co., went to the
Muddy with her husband on a mission and moved
to Provo in 1873.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to take our beloved Sister to a higher sphere,
therefore be it,
	Resolved, that we her co-laborers members of
the Second Ward Relief Society of Provo cherish
her memory and emulate her virtues energy and
perseverance. She was a useful woman in the
community among her sisters in sickness, and
faithful and true in the higher order of marriage
and was of a kind and humane disposition.
	She was a teacher and appraiser in our Society
for many years, and a counselor for eight years in
the Primary Association when organized in 1878.
We sympathise with the family in their bereave-
ment and desire to express our condolence.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of these Societies and published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
SARAH SCOTT, Prest.
SARAH GOODMAN, Coun.
M. A. TILL,
MARTHA HARRIS.
}Committee.
["}Committee." is written to the left of the four lines above it]


PHOEBE COUZINS is ill with inflammatory 
rheumatism at Los Angeles, Cal., and has
applied to the suffrage association for aid.
This association has no fund to help individ-
uals, but it is going to help Miss Couzins,
whose active career has been interesting in
showing woman's capacity for executive
office,—Ex,


169 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE OF THE N. A. W. S. A.

(Continued)
REMARKS BY MRS. ELECTA BULLOCK OF
UTAH. 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I am very glad the Chairman said some-
thing about applause. I am not a public
speaker and unless I hear a little enthusiasm
from the audience I do not believe I can say
a word. (Applause) It appears to me
that you are all asleep when we are hear-
ing the grandest sentiments that ever ema-
nated from anyone’s mouth. Mrs. Wells
says we must hurry she wants to hear
from those eminent speakers—so do we, so
I will just say a word or two—I don’t
want to leave out beautiful Utah County
which is considered the garden spot of the
Territory. I am proud of it and we have
a great many very good suffragists there
and they had occasion to display their true
colors in the late conflict in the Constitu-
tional Convention. In many instances
there were men that I thought I could stake
my life on their support and when we pre-
sented the petition to them to sign, some of
those leading gentlemen said in reply to
my remark that I would like to see their
names head the list, “O yes, we believe in
equal suffrage but you see it I should put
my name to that petition—why you see it
would defeat us.”There it was again,
willing to sell the liberty of one-half the
people of this Territory for Statehood.
(Applause.) That is the way we have been
treated. It was the old spirit but I am
very happy to say it is giving way to the
new conditions that surround us—I must
not forget I told Mrs. Wells I would only
say a word or two, but I cannot stop until
I say a word in regard to those honorable
delegates to the Constitutional Convention
from Utah County—they were earnest 
workers and I heard twelve of them were
united and they were heroes in our cause.
(Applause.) Although we have been en-
slaved so long and even at the risk of de-
feating statehood, such men as S. R. Thur-
man and F. S. Richards of this County and
others true to their party platform (Mrs.
Wells interrupting Mrs. Bullock. Excuse
me Mrs. Wells)—stood up and said “If we
can’t have Statehood without the liberty of
all the people we don’t want it” (applause)
I say that is true patriotism for you gentle- 
men and ladies—that is the kind of patriot-
ism that gained our independence. Thank-
ing you for your attention. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony:—Mrs. Wells, who is the 
General on this occasion says I must say
something, Now it seems to me in view of
what I feel that you all feel to be a fact that
there is no doubt with regard to the adop-
tion of the Constitution by a majority of
the electors of this Territory, and that after
it has been adopted by the votes that there
is no doubt whatever that Congress will ad-
mit the State into the Union, the Territory
into the Union as a State, it seems to me
that the one word that I want to say to you
is as if you were already a State, as if the
women of the State were already enfran-
chised. It seems to me that the work for
the women of Utah is exactly like that of
the women of Colorado and that is that they
shall commence the study of the great
principles that underlie our government—
the principles of civil government and the
principles of municipal government and
State and National governments, and that

[Column 2]
the objects and aims of our societies which
have hitherto been demanding and urging
the enfranchisement of your women, that
you shall make them now preparatory
schools or schools to prepare the women and
the men of your respective communities to
vote intelligently. This cannot be done
except by good and earnest study. Men
have not studied the principles of their
government. If they had they would have
enfranchised the women long ago, and if
the women had stood by the great work of
studying the laws and principles their de-
sires would have been accomplished long
ago. The men of today have not sufficient-
ly studied the rise and fall of the political
parties of this nation—a majority of the
men know nothing about the Constitution
of the State or of the nation or the work of
the women. Women should not only be
intelligent upon all questions of govern-
ment but they should educate their sons,
their brothers their fathers and their hus-
bands. They should invite them to their
meetings with them and together study
those questions. The introduction of wo-
men into government affairs will result in
higher intelligence among men as well as
among women. It seems to me the result
will not be at all what is intended if we do
not have greater intelligence everywhere.
	Now my good friends, it is supposed by
some that we are under pay from the
National Association. I want to disabuse
your minds—we are under pay from no-
body, we are, as the woman says, making
this trip free gratis and Mrs. Wells has as-
sumed all the financial responsibilities of
our stay here and of course the expenses
are not small. Utah has always done her
share towards helping to forward the cause
of woman. As I told you last night, five
states have passed a resolution submitting
the proposition to be voted upon not as a
part of the constitution as in your State, but
to be submitted as a separate measure.
When that question is submitted to the
people of this Territory every individual
man and woman must work, for it requires
immense educational work to reach out to
every one of the precincts of the State to
educate each individual to vote intelligently
(To the girls taking up the collection—
“Girls, don’t go too fast, give everybody a
chance to get their pocket books out.”)
	Now my friends, in regard to our Suf-
frage Association, we have thirty-six al-
ready organized, and at Atlanta last winter
there was proposed an organization Com-
mittee and the sum of $1800.00 was raised
right on the spot in order to carry the good
work into the various states. Utah for the
last twenty years has been one of the best
organized states. Utah and New York
have run a tilt as to which should be the
banner Suffrage Society in the nation.
Sometimes Utah has come with a much
larger delegation and New York has come
second, but I believe this year that New
York stands as the banner state of the
whole thirty-six as to the largest member-
ship. You know the rule is that you pay
into your State society twenty-five cents for
every local member and then your State
society sends ten cents out of every one of
those twenty-five cents to the treasurer of
your National Association so that is the
way we find out which State is the best or-
ganized, which state has the largest number
of members by the amount of money paid
in. New York this year sent in $165.00
to the treasurer that you know shows that

[Column 3] 
she has a membership of 1650 for which
the ten cents fund has been paid into the
National treasury. I forgot the exact
amount Utah sent [Mrs. Wells, $115.00 and
we have hundreds of women who have not
paid their dues] Mrs. Wells says  $115.00 and
there are hundreds and hundreds of women
in Utah this year and men too who have
not paid their little dues into the local
society, and when you do not pay into the
local society the State society is unable to
pay its ten cents to the National Society.
So you see when you join a local society
and pay your $1.00 membership fee which
I think is your membership fee, or 50 cents
or whatever it is, each man and each wo-
man that pays that membership fee into the
local society has contributed ten cents of what-
ever the amount may be towards helping
on with the good work. In sustaining
your local society you are sustaining
financially your State and National As-
sociation as well. That is what we all do.
We want to be one grand solid army from
one end of the nation to the other each
local society is auxiliary to the State society
and each State society is auxiliary to the
National Association, and in this way we
shall become solidly organized and when-
ever there is any great crisis coming in the
state or in the nation the women can band
themselves together to help carry the
measure if it is a good one or to defeat it if
the reverse. I do not believe that you wo-
men with the ballot in your hands will
make this purely partisan and vote for an
unworthy man because he is of that
political party, but on the other hand wo-
men will do in Utah as they have done in
Wyoming and Colorado and as they have
done in the State of Kansas in school elec-
tions that [---] hold themselves as a
combined power to vote for the best man
that is nominated, for the best party that is
in the field.


WHEN YOU THINK
[Union Pacific	  				OF GOING EAST
Overland crest]    Will you please also think of the Perfect
				Passenger Service offered you by
				THE UNION PACIFIC
			FROM SALT LAKE TO
DENVER 23 hours, 3 hours quicker than any other line.
OMAHA. 32 3/4 hours, 11 hours quicker than any other line.
ST. PAUL, 47 1/2 hours, 12 hours quicker than any o her line
CHICAGO, 47 3/4 hours, 12 hours quicker than any other line.
ST. LOUIS, 47 1/2 hours, 11 hours quicker than any other line.
THROUGH TRAINS CARRY Pullman dining cars (a-la-
carte), Pullman Palace Sleepers, Pullman Tourist Sleepers,
Pullman Buffet Library and Smoking Ca’s, Free Reclining
Chair Cars, Elegant Day Coaches. Leaving Salt Lake City at
7 a. m. and 7 p. m. every day in the year.
		CITY TICKET OFFICE 201 MAIN STREET.
D. E. BURLEY, G. A. P. D. 			D. S. TAGGART, T. P. A.

					R.K. THOMAS
			26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
				     SALT LAKE CITY.
				     The Leading Retail
					   Cash House.
					R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 25. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,  JULY, 1896. No. 2.


CONTENTS: 

	Armenia. Utah Federation of Woman’s Clubs.
Birthday Party—L. D. A. Harriet Beecher
Stowe. An Interesting Time—Julia A. Mac-
donald.  Notes And News. Rules And Regu-
lations. Ladies Semi-monthly Meeting—Annie
T. Hyde. Box Elder Reports—Emelia D. Mad-
son. Leaves From My Journal—Kim. In
Memoriam. Obituaries. A Brilliant Wedding—
E. Crane Watson. Surprise Party—A Friend.
	EDITORIAL—Sixty Years Married. “Vote
Wisely.” Kate Field. Editorial Notes
	POETRY:—The Stareless Crown—Selected. The
Other World. Lovingly Inscribed—Nellie.


[Column 1]
		THE STARLESS CROWN

	"They that turn many to righteouness shall
shine as the stars forever and ever.”—Daniel
XII. 3. 
Wearied and worn with earthly cares, I yielded
	to repose.
And soon, before my raptured sight, a glorious
	vision rose. 
I thought whilst slumbering on my couch in
	midnight’s solemn gloom,
I heard an angel’s silvery voice, and radiance
	fill’d my room. 
A gentle touch awakened me,—a gentle whisper
	said,
“Arise, O sleeper, follow me,” and through the
	air we fled. 
We left the earth so far away that like a speck
	it seemed,
And heavenly glory, calm and pure, across our
	pathway stream’d
Still on we went— my soul was wrapt in silent
	ecstacy;
I wondered what the end would be, what next
	should meet mine eye. 
I knew not how we journey’d thro’ the pathless
	fields of light,
When suddenly a change was wrought and I was
	clothed in white.
We stood before a city’s walls and glorious to 
	behold;
We passed thro’ gates of glistening pearl, o’er
	streets of purest gold;
It needed not the sun by day, the, silver moon
	by night,
The glory of the Lord was there, the Lamb him-
	self its light;
Bright angels paced the shining streets, sweet
	music filled the air,
And white-robed saints with glittering crowns,
	from every land were there,
And some that I had loved on earth, stood with
	them round the throne,
“All worthy is the Lamb,” they sang “the glory
	His alone.”
But fairer far than all beside, I saw my Savior’s
	face;
And as I gazed He smiled on me with wondrous
	love and grace. 
Lowly I bowed before His throne, o’er-joyed that
	I at last‘
Had gained the object of my hopes, that earth at
	length was past. 
And then in solemn tones He said “Where is the
	diadem

[Column 2]
That ought to sparkle on thy brow—adorned
	with many a gem?
I know thou hast believed in Me, and life through
	Me is thine,
But where are all those radiant stars that in thy 
	crown should shine?
Yonder thou seest a glorious throng, and stars on 
	every brow!
For every soul they led to Me they wear a jewel
	now!
And such thy bright reward had been if such had
	been thy deed,
If thou hadst sought some wand’ring feet in paths
	of peace to lead;
I did not mean that thou shouldst tread the way
	of life alone,
But that the clear and shining light which round
	thy foot-steps shone,
Should guide some other weary feet to my bright
	home of rest,
And thus in blessing those around, thou hadst thy-
	self been blest. 

The vision faded from my sight, the voice no 
	longer spake, 
A spell seemed brooding o’er my soul which
	long I feared to break,
And when at last I gazed around in memory’s
	glimmering light,
My spirit fell o’erwhelmed beneath that vision’s
	awful might
I rose and wept with chastened joy that yet I
	dwelt below, 
That yet another hour was mine my faith by
	works to show, 
And yet some sinner I might tell of Jesus’ dying
	love,
And help to lead some weary soul to seek a home
	above.
And now while on the earth I stay, my motto
	this shall be,
“To live no longer to myself but Him who died
	for me!”
And graven on my inmost soul this word of truth
	divine,
They that turn many to the Lord bright as the
	stars shall shine."
	SELECTED.


[Column 1] 
ARMENIA.

BY PHOEBE C. YOUNG.
	A PEOPLE of great natural gifts. They
have caught enough of the fire and in-
spiration of the liberty of the nineteenth
century to assert more independence; and
sometimes raise their voices against the
unremiting tyranny and oppression of the
Turkish government to which they are
subject.
	Perhaps they have found the more cour-
age to do this, because they had a right
under the treaty of Berlin to consider
themselves under the protection of the six
great European princes.
	But alas for them that put confidence in
princes; they have been doomed to disap-
pointment and left to suffer and die; for al-
though Great Britian through its embassy
at Constantinople and its consuls in the
interior have constantly remonstrated with

[Column 2]
the Sultan and sought to compel him to
bringing about a better state of affairs, they
have been met with the dogged accusations
and stubborn resistance of the Turks, and
received until lately very little support from
the other powers.
	Another reason for the great trouble ex-
isting is to be found in that great factor of
dissension in the world’s history; religious
fanaticism. The Sultan himself claiming to
be the spiritual as well as the temporal
head of the Mohammedan world; that is to
say a Calif. This has revived the old
spirit of hatred and intolerance between
Mussulmen and Christian and the Turk has
taken up his arms with his ancient motto
that all means are lawful for the extermina-
tion of the Christian. The life of a
Christian being considered of no more
worth than the life of a dog; which is in
their estimation a meritorious act to take.
 	This is an unequal fight. The Mussul-
men holding all the power. The Christians
so much fewer in numbers and almost en-
tirely without arms; arms being forbidden
by the Sultan to the Armenian population.
“The situation throughout the summer of
eighteen eighty four was one bordering
on anarchy,” from every section of the
country came word of the most outragous
treatment by the Turks and Kurds of the
Christian subjects.
	Laws were imposed that in the already
impoverished condition of the country were
simply ravenous and very bitter feeling
existed on every hand. In a detailed state-
ment sent to the English papers by the
Vienna Correspondent of the Daily News,
regarding the treatment of prisoners in
Central Asia Minor, the following state-
ment is made, “Hundreds of them were
cast into prison, stripped of their clothes and
tortured in the most diabolical manner:
women were outraged in the presence of
their husbands and fathers.” An Armenian
at Marsovar was flogged until his back was
raw flesh, to force him to sign a declaration
that certain Americans were plotting with
Armenians an insurrection.
	In the early years of the century the
residents of Constantinople had been ac-
customed to hear the most insulting refer-
ence made to their religion; but under the
influence of Abdul Medjid this diminished
greatly and as a consequence social relations
improved, but during the five years
previous to eighteen seventy four a marked
change was noticed everywhere and an in-
creasing lack of regard for the customs of
the Christians.
	Leading merchants were ordered to open
their shops on Sunday; if they refused they
were punished and told they were disobey-
ing the orders of the Sultan. The officers
would enter a Church during service and
demand anything they might want; and if
requested to wait its close, they would
draw their swords and order the preacher to
stop and most vilely abuse everything most
sacred pertaining to the religion of Christ.
“In viewing the situation we cannot but
receive the impression of a plan officially
laid to crush out the Christian population
to make room for a Moslem population.”


[Column 1]
	We are the more inclined to believe this
from the fact that the Greek villages suf-
fered only in a secondary measure while the
Christian population of Mesopotamia suf-
fered fully as much; and because the Priests
and women were the two noncombative
parties they have suffered the most, because
the Priest represented the detested religion,
he has not only been slain but mutilated
and the sign of the cross cut in his fore-
head by murderous swords; outrages worse
than death have been endured by helpless
women always preceded by the promise
that they would be spared if they would
abjure their faith. And in no instance have
they hesitated to face their double agony
rather than disclaim allegiance to their faith.
It is unnecessary to rehearse the ghastly
terrible and revoltiug details of the totally
unprovoked Massacre of Sassoun. Of the
barbarous cruelties inflicted on the men,
 and the more frightful tortures endured by
the women, in which they suffered a hun-
dred times worse than death through the
brutality and revolting lust of their merci-
less conquerers. We have read all these
horrors in the public prints till our brains
have turned giddy and our hearts faint,
until we are [-]eady to exclaim:
	“In what age do we live? Have we gone
back to the blackness of the dark ages?
Are all the horrors of the inquisition again
revived? Or is the Massacre of Saint
Bartholmew to be re-enacted with added 
horrors before the eyes of all Christendom?”
But no! We are mistaken; we are living
in the midst of the boasted civilization of
the nineteenth century and in the full blaze
of so called Gospel light; when Christian
Churches are striving to excel each other
in their efforts for the conversion of the
world. While millions of dollars are ex-
pended by Christian nations annually for
the spread of the principles of Christianity
which they profess to believe, and these
poor Armenians have a right to look for
protection in their social and relig[-]ous
rights, because they had conceived brighter
hopes for their future as a nation in conse-
quence of considering themselves through
the treaty of Berlin entitled to the protec-
tion of Great Britan and encouraged by the
sympathy shown them by Americans. But,
however, dark the picture there is still 
something left to brighten the scene.
	In the long and bloody annals of the
Sultan’s kingdom remarks a writer “Two
names breathe benediction. Florence
Nightingale, and Clara Barton the fairest 
flower of Armenian and English Christianity.
Women may well be grateful that their
sex has placed in the sky, where the
Crescent is fast fading into darkness, the 
two brightest stars of hope that shall glow in
history’s constellation. That eminent and
well known lady Frances E. Willard after 
reviewing the situation makes use of the
following scathing language which as it
embodies the sentiments of thousands of
Christian people I here transcribe: (she says) 
	“In the presence of such a spectacle as
this with the martydom of a nation, going 
forward under their eyes, the men of
Christendom have stood by and watched
their agonies have seen a crowd of Chris-
tian women shut up in a church and under-
going a night of outrage ending in murder,
the streams of blood flowing out under the
Church doors; they have stood by while Mos-
lem savages disembowelled Christian mothers
and brought into a world accursed,innocent
babies which were taken on the points of
bayonets and sportively tossed to and fro.

[Column 2]
They have passively beheld the massacre of
fifty thousand people in the slowly round-
ing circle of a year.
	This is the situation! Armenians are the
Nation; the Sultan and his soldiers are the
Devil’s scourge. The Anglo Saxon race is
the cold hearted spectator.”


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	UTAH FEDERATION OF WOMAN’S
	CLUBS. 

	SOCIAL PURITY.
	FOLLOWING the address a paper on
“Social Purity” was read by Mrs. May P.
Moyle of the Cleofan. Mrs. Moyle treated
the subject exhaustively.
	“The subject upon which I am to address
you is one of such importance that it can-
not be over-estimated. It is a matter for
the deepest and most earnest consideration
of every member of this noble Republic of
ours, for it is the basis upon which must
rest the high civilization toward which we,
as a nation, think we are advancing. If we
consider the subject honestly and dispas-
sionately, we must agree with the writer
who says, that nothing but virtue and intel-
ligence can save a republic from ending in
despotism, corruption and anarchy. Our
most eminent sociologists have arrived at
the conclusion that whatever promotes the
health, happiness and personal welfare of
the greatest number, should be the care of
every individual member of a highly
civilized society. If this precept were car-
ried into practice, what a glory would be
our advancement. The golden ages of
Greece and Rome would be as nothing in
comparison, and Utopia would be a reality
instead of the beautiful dream that it is.
	Instead of seeing the realization of this
ideal, however, we are confronted by what?
A condition of society that in some respects
is simply appalling. We have here not
such object pictures as those living in the
great metropolitan centers of our country,
but what we do see, gives us a faint idea of
the conditions that exist elsewhere. One
of the greatest causes of social impurity is
poverty—bitter, grinding poverty. It
would seem that the first thing to be done
in order to purify society is to improve the
physical conditions of those who form the
lower classes in society. We can all help
in our small way toward the uplifting of
humanity, and I am sure we agree that
social purity should be the objective point
in all our strivings, and is the only basis
upon which can rest moral and physical ad-
vancement. Methinks that purity for the
individual, the family and the nation could
be the battle cry of victory, spreading a
light in the earth that would reach as far
as heaven.
	Parents are under the greatest obligation
to their children. They are born into the
world not of their own volition, and have a
right to expect moral surroundings, and
surroundings cannot be moral unless an
equal standard be maintained.
	Women and children have a right to demand
purity on the part of men. Man must rise
to woman’s standard before he can become
the great and noble being his Master in-
tended he should become. At the very
root of social impurity lies the inequality
forever destroying the source from whence
must come purity and advancement.”
	IS A NEW PARTY NEEDED?
	Miss Josephine Kellogg of the Nineteenth
Century club of Provo discussed the

[Column 2]
question, “Does the New Woman Need a
New Party?” Miss Kellogg reviewed in a
very exhaustive and interesting manner the
history of the leading political parties of the
country, and suggested that possibly the
new woman would need a new party and
might insist on having one. She read
Wordsworth’s beautiful poem, in which the
poet’s ideal of a beautiful woman is one
who at first sight is simply a dream of
romance, but finally develops a mind and
soul and becomes an immortal being.
	In concluding. Miss Kellogg said:
“What does such a woman need of a new
party? If she enjoys the same privileges
as man, she needs a chance for united work.
Is there a chance for either men or women
in the parties as they now exist, for a con-
certed effort on any of the issues of the
present day?”


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	ON Wednesday the seventeenth day of
June, our beloved friend and co-laborer,
Sister Julia C. Howe, reached her seventy-
third milestone.
	By invitation a few of her friends as-
sembled at her lovely home in the Seven-
teenth Ward Salt Lake City, and spent a
few hours in social communion. The
hostess in her loving amiable way, made
every one welcome and at home. Time
has gently touched Sister Howe, and it may
be said of her, “She grows old gracefully.
But truth to tell Sister Howe, will never be
old. Her love for the children and young
people of the Saints, and her many years of
association with them, and her great earnest
love for the Gospel, reflects youth and
beauty in her countenance. After partak-
ing of the delicate bounties spread for the
feast, and wishing Sister Howe life as long
as desired, or as her Patriarchal Blessing
says, until she shall behold the closing
scenes of this Dispensation, the guests de-
parted.
	The party was graced by the presence of
our venerable Presidents, Sister Zina D. H.
Young and M. Isabella Horne, also Sisters
L. M. Kimball, M. E. Kimball, Annie T.
Hyde, Clara C. Cannon, E. J. Stevenson,
and others who have been long associated
h the Lord’s work with her.
	O, how we love the old friends,
	Who have been fond and true;
	And we’ll not forget the old friends,
	Although we love the new. 
	O, how we love the old friends,
	Whose hair has silver grown;
	Though Time has touched them lightly,
	As swiftly it has flown.
	O, how we love the old friends;
	And friends of days of yore;
	Who now. their watch are keeping;
	For us on the "Other Shore.’’ 
June, 1896. L.D.A.


The Lotos, New York, is issued in a
double summer number for June and July,
and offers an unusually attractive table of
contents. All club women will be interest-
ed in the article on the great convention of
the General Federation of Women’s Clubs
at Louisville, by Mrs. Florence Howe Hall.
There is also a brief report of the conven-
tion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE OTHER WORLD.

BY HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.
IT lies around us like a cloud, 
	The world we do not see; 
Yet the sweet closing of an eye
 	May bring us there to be.
Its gentle breezes fan our cheeks
  	Amid our worldly cares;
Its gentle voices whisper love,
   	And mingle with our prayers.
Sweet hearts around us throb and beat,
	Sweet helping hands are stirred,
And palpitates the veil between
   	With beatings almost heard.
The silence, awful, sweet and calm,
   	They have no power to break;
For mortal words are not for them
	To utter or partake.
So thin, so soft, so sweet they glide,
	So near to press they seem,
They lull us gently to o[-]r rest, 
	They melt into our dream.
And in the hush of rest they bring, 
	’Tis easy now to see
How lovely and how sweet a pass
	The hour of death may be;
To close the eye and close the ear,
  	Wrapt in a trance of bliss, 
And gently drawn in loving arms,
      	To swoon from that to fhis;
Scarce knowing if we wake or sleep,
	Scarce asking where we are,
To feel all evil sink away,
      	All sorrow and all care;
Sweet souls around us watch us still,
      	Press nearer to our side,
Into our thoughts, into our prayers,
      	With gentle helping glide.
Let death between us be as naught,
      	A dried and vanished stream;
Your joy be the reality,
     	Our suffering life the dream.


[Column 1]
HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

	MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE died
at her home in Forest Street, Hartford,
Wednesday, July 1.
	Mrs. Stowe, the daughter of Lyman
Beecher, was born at Litchfield, Conn.,
June 15, 1811. At an early age she mani-
fested a great eagerness for books, and
read the prosy theological works of her
father’s library with eagerness. The early
years of her life were spent in the intellect-
ual atmosphere of Litchfield, which was a
famous resort for ministers, judges lawyers
and professional men of culture and educa-
tion. When about twelve years of age she
went to Hartford, where her sister, Cath-
erine, had opened a school. While here,
she was known as an absent-minded and
moody young lady, odd in manners and
habits, but a fine scholar exceling especi-
ally in composition writing. In 1832 she
went to Cincinnati, to which place her
father had removed, where they opened a
school. On Jan. 5, 1836, she married Rev.
Calvin Stowe. D. D , professor of Biblical
history in Lane Seminary, over which her
father presided.
 	During Mrs. Stowe’s intervals of leisure
amidst family cares, she contributed to the
periodicals, sketches and short stories but
apart from one or two Sunday school books
she attempted nothing of more importance
until 1850, when her husband having

[Column 2]
accepted the professorship of Natural and
Revealed Religion in Bowdoin College,
Brunswick, Me., she contributed to the
National Era, an anti-slavery paper, pub-
lished at Washington, “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” as a serial. When the story was
completed, she long and vainly sought a
publisher for it, until a young Boston
publisher finally consented to bring it out
in 1852. It met with unequaled success,
313,000 copies were sold in the United
States within three years and a half, and
in all, over half a million copies, including
a German edition prepared there. In Great
Britain its sale was enormous. It was
translated into twenty different languages,
including Welsh, Russian, Armenian,
Arabic, Chinese and Japanese there were
fourteen different German and four different
French versions and it was dramatized in
various forms.
  	She subsequently published “A Peep
into Uncle Tom’s Cabin for Children”
(1853); and “The Christian Slave; a
Drama,” founded on “Uncle Tom’sCabin”
(1855). As some of the statements of fact
in the work were denied, Mrs. Stowe
published in 1853, “A Key to Uncle Tom’s 
Cabin,” giving the original facts and state-
ments on which it was based. She visited
Europe in 1853, and the results of her
observations were published in 1854, in
“Sunny Memories of Foreign Lands.”
A little work entitled “Geography For My
Children,” was published in 1855, and the
next year appeared her second anti-slavery
novel “Dred: a Tale of the Dismal
Swamp.” In her subsequent work Mrs.
Stowe often delineated the quaint old
domestic life of New England of fifty or a
hundred years ago.
 	In September, 1869, Mrs. Stowe con-
tributed to the Atlantic Monthly and to
Macmillans Magazine, as in some sort a
reply to Countess Guiccioli’s “Recollec-
tions of Lord Byron,” an article entitled
“The True Story of Lady Byron’s Life.”
This article evoked a storm of literary
criticism almost unprecedented, and the
tempest was by no means allayed by the
publication in 1870 of Mrs’ Stowe’s work,
entitled “Lady Byron Vindicated.” She
was also for some time one of the editors of
Hearth and Home and a frequent con-
tributor to the Atlantic, Independent and
other periodicals.
	A pleasant episode was the observance of
her seventieth birthday by a garden party,
given by the publishers of the Atlantic
Monthly. Governor Claflin tendered the
use of his extensive grounds at Newton, and
a large company of literary men and wo-
men were present.
 	In 1852 her husband was appointed to fill
the chair of Sacred Literature at Andover
(Mass.) Seminary, and she resided there
until 1864, when, owing to failing health,
he resigned and moved to Hartford, Conn.,
where he died Aug. 22, 1886.
 	Mrs. Stowe has since her husband’s
death, lived in Hartford, occasionally pass-
ing her winters in Florida, where she own-
ed an extensive orange grove.
	BOSTON Transcript-


AN INTERESTING TIME.

Editor Exponent:
	WITH pleasure I take my pen to chronicle
the pleasant happenings of the past few
days in sunny Dixie. Agreeable to promise


and expectation, our visiting sisters from
Salt Lake City made their appearance in due
season, and were heartily welcome.
	Thursday the 10th inst. was devoted to
a Primary Conference of this stake. Two
meetings were held, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
A large number of children, ranging from
three to fifteen years, were gathered to-
gether looking very sweet and pretty in
their white dresses, and bright ribbons and
flowers. The exercises were conducted al-
most entirely by the children. Sister Lula 
Greene Richards, as the representative of
the Presidency of the Primary Association,.
ably sustained her position, assisted by the
earnest and zealous efforts of Sisters C. C.
R. Wells and Mary A. Freeze. The
conference was, altogether, satisfactory, and
profitable.
	Friday, June 10th, the Annual Confer- 
ence of the Y. L. M. I. Association con-   
vened at 10 a. m. under the Presidency of
Sister Rosenia Jarvis. Reports were made
by officers of various wards, indicating an
encouraging condition of their associations.
A paper, on the subject of “Love, Courtship
and Marriage” was read by its author, 
Sister Julia A. Macdonald of the St. George
M. I. A. The rest of the day was occupied
in a most impressive and profitable manner, 
by Sister Mary A. Freeze, representing the
general superintendency of M. I. A. work,
and her colleagues.
	On Saturday, the 12th inst. the regular
quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this stake, convened in the Lyceum.
President Ann C. Woodbury presiding.
Reports of an encouraging nature were 
heard from all the ward officers present, al- 
so the last financial and statistical report.
Sister C. C. R. Wells ably acted her part as
the Vicegerent of Aunt Zina and her aids, 
giving much timely advice and encourage-
ment.
	Following directly on these meetings 
came our regular quarterly Stake Confer-
ence, at which the usual good spirit pre-
vailed. On Sunday evening, a conjoint
meeting of the two M. I. Associations and
the Sunday Schools, was called as usual, 
at which our sisters again raised their
voices in encouragement and exhortation to
the young people.
	Altogether, we feel that we have had a 
time of feasting and rejoicing, and only 
hope our visitors enjoyed it as much as we.
	One thing they will certainly remember, 
and that is the heat, which was unusually
oppressive during their stay. God speed
them on their way!
			JULIA A. MACDONALD. 
St. George, June 16th, 1896.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE address of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady .
Stanton for the summer will be Peterboro,
Madison Co., N. Y.
	THE death of Jules Simon causes another 
vacancy in the French academy. There is
good authority that Emile Zola will not be
elected to fill the place.
	MISS ELIZABETH UPHAM YATES, of
Maine, who has been in the Suffrage cam-
paign in California, visited our City on her 
way home, but much to our regret could
only remain two days. Miss Yates is a
very charming woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 			Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
		Salt Lake City, July, 1896.


SIXTY YEARS MARRIED.

	THE wedding anniversary of Brother and
Sister Nathan Tanner of Cotton Wood,
was celebrated at the elegant residence of
Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Richards in this City
June 30, 1896. Mrs. Richards, who is the
daughter of these aged veterans, had made
every preparation possible for the comfort
and happiness of her father and mother and
their special old-time friends and relatives
who were near enough to participate in the
happy occasion.
	The spacious parlors were, prettily
decorated and the dining room decorations
were very effective. It was a beautiful
day and the very season of the year for
flowers and fragrance, and the sweet per-
fume of roses and honey suckle with other
varieties of sweet-scented blossoms, lent a
delightful charm to the entertainment.
	Brother and Sister Tanner made a strik-
ing picture of themselves, both are fine
specimens of physical endurance; their
years have apparently set lightly upon
them, though they have passed through
many hardships, having been among the
early pioneers in the West in their younger
married life, and come to the Valley of
Salt Lake in 1847, and helped to colonize
here among the very first who settled these
barren vales.
	President George Q. Cannon and wife, Pres.
Lorenzo Snow and wife, and of the Quorum
of the Apostles Franklin D. Richards,
F. M. Lyman and his aged mother, who is
Brother Tanner’s sister, Patriarch Joseph
Horne and wife who so recently celebrated
their sixtieth wedding day, President
Angus M. Cannon and wife and Counselor
Joseph E. Taylor, Counselor C. W Pen-
rose and wife, Hon. John T. Caine and
wife, George Crismon, wife and daughter,
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Wyne-
gar, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Mr. and Mrs. James Brown and
others. The afternoon was spent in social
converse mostly reminiscences of the early
days in the Church. Brother Tanner is one
of the very few surviving members of the
famous Zion’s camp. There was some
excellent instrumental music by the young
people, and Miss Crismon sang very sweet-
ly some favorite selections which awakened
old memories.
	It is needless to speak of the banquet
given to the honored couple and the
assembled guests, including all the season’s
delicacies and a wedding cake proportion-
ately large and rich for the sixty years.


The evening entertainment was diver-
sified by a panorama of scenes and places
here and elsewhere mainly historical,
thrown upon the wall by means of a magic
lamp of some sort, and which was much
enjoyed by the company. The friends
showered congratulations and good wishes
upon the happy couple, who had already
passed three score years of life together.
May their prosperity and love grow strong-
er and purer as their days lengthen, and
their evening of life be full of the peace
that passeth understanding.


“VOTE WISELY.”

	The political conditions of this country
at the present time are anything but
satisfactory. It is impossible to tell what a
day may bring forth, or what new scheme
may be developed by those who manipulate
the machinery of politics. New parties are
evidently in embryo, and old parties divid-
ing on new lines, or questions that have
arisen within the last few years or even
months. Disturbing elements are at work,
and whether the outcome bodes for good or
ill, one cannot well determine.  Every
man is asking his neighbor what the issues
are likely to produce, and in Utah at least,
men are wondering how the women of the
new state are going to vote, and women are
asking similar questions of men, who have
been voting always, and seemingly are as
much at sea on the live questions of the
time, as the women who have never yet cast
a vote.
	Certainly it behooves every man and wo-
man who can exert an influence or cast a
vote, to stand upon principle and maintain
the right according to conviction and one’s
conscience, and not depend upon one or
two ideas that seem especially important,but
take into account the entire subject and
situation as much as possible it does seem
without parallel that women have come in-
to possession of the privilege of equal suf-
frage at a time when the nation is in such a
state of doubt and uncertainty on such grave
problems as are now imminent, and the
solution of which no man knoweth.
	It seems a harbinger of good too that the
first votes of the women of this new State
should be cast for the highest official in the
Republic. Many men who have lived in
the West and helped to colonize, have
never yet voted for the President of the
United States. This seems an uncommon
privilege given to the women just entering
into this new ‘‘land of promise” so long
waited for and so tediously delayed. It is
a time when every vote should be cast, and
wisely, if one were only sure, but women
should not be too timid and lose their
opportunity; seek wisdom from the Lord,
and He has promised to all those who seek
Him that they shall know. It is im-
portant too that women should register
properly, and see to it that all those who
are not citizens, but who can become so by
being naturalized, take the correct steps neces-
sary that they may have the privilege accord-
ed them under the law of the grand new State.
	It is a matter of congratulation to both
men and women, and one we should be
grateful for and proud of, that on the day
celebrated by all patriotic Americans
the 4th of July 1896, the flag of our country
bore to the breeze the forty-fifth star for
the first time at the Nation’s capital, and on
all public buildings in that great City, as
well as other places, significant of the en-


larged freedom of the people who have
knocked so often and so long for admit-
tance into the great galaxy of States.
	It is a solemn time as well as a time of
extraordinary privilege, for one cannot
contemplate the condition of this nation
under the present outlook without feelings
of sadness, and only to those who trust in
God can there come the hope that is up-
lifting.


KATE FIELD

	THE tidings of the demise of Miss Field
in far off Honolulu, seemed very sad when 
one remembers her brilliant career before
the public for so many years, as well as
her extensive acquaintance here and
abroad. To die alone in a foreign land,
without a loving friend near to say one
tender word, or drop one tear upon the
couch of suffering is saddening. To be
alone in the world, apart from family ties,
seems to us an affliction. Miss Field went
to Honolulu to regain her health, she suf-
fered from overwork and depression,
brought about by financial embarrassments. 
She was an accomplished journalist, and
her paper “Kate Field's Washington” was
a reflex or a mirror of her pronounced
opinions upon all subjects.
	“Brave minds, how e’er at war are secret friends, 
Their generous discord with the battle ends; 
In peace they wonder whence dissension rose,
And ask how souls so like could e’er be foes."


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Sisters B. W. Smith, E. B Wells and
Sarah J. Cannon went to Nephi to attend
the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. Con-
ferences of Juab Stake held at Nephi on
the 23rd and 24th of June. Of these Con-
ferences we shall expect Minutes for pub-
lication from the respective secretaries.
	PRESIDENT Zina D. H. Young and her
Counselor Jane S. Richards, also Sister R.
E. Monch attended the Relief Society Con-
ference held at Iona, Bingham Stake, Idaho,
on the 13th of June. Apostle F. D. Rich- 
ards was present at the same Conference
and spoke very interestingly upon the
Relief Society. These sisters had intended 
to visit Bannock and Bear Lake Stakes, but
were hindered from making the trip on ac-
count of the high water.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. of the Seventh Ward
held its annual meeting on the evening of
June 16th, at the Ward meeting house,
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas presiding. The
house was beautifully decorated with roses
and other flowers. and a delightful perfume
was wafted through the house. The exer-
cises were of a most choice and interesting
character. During the winter the girls
had been studying the life of Joseph Smith,
and an exceedingly interesting review of the
subject was given by Miss Nellie Wallace,
who was quite original in her style and
manner of presenting the theme. Other
exercises were exceedingly well rendered,
even to the original play written by Miss
Blanche Thomas and given by four or five
of the girls. 
	Remarks were made by Sister E. B.
Wells who gave personal remembrances of
the Prophet Joseph, and by President
Elmina S. Taylor and Lucy W. Smith,
Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor and Bishop
Thorne. Mrs. C. S. Thomas deserves great


commendation for the successful method in-
troduced which have succeeded so admira-
bly in promoting the best interests of the
Association, spiritually and in a general
way, creating and keeping alive the work
in that locality. She has able assistants in
the young ladies of the ward, but has none
the less proven herself an efficient leader.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RULES AND REGULATIONS.

OF THE UTAH KINDERGARTEN ASSOCIATION.

	ARTICLE I.—Name.
	THE name of this association shall be
"The Utah Kindergarten Association.”
	ARTICLE II.—Object.
	The object of this association shall be to
found and maintain Kindergarten schools
for the benefit of the children of Utah.
	Membership. 
	Section 1. Any person or persons recom-
mended by two members may become a
member of this Association by paying an
annual fee of fifty cents, and conforming to
the rules and regulations of the Associa-
tion.
	ARTICLE III.—Officers.
	The officers of this association shall be
composed of a board of thirty five directors
out of the number shall be elected
a president, two vice-presidents, a
recording secretary, an assistant recording
secretary, a corresponding secretary and a
treasurer. These officers shall be chosen
annually from their own number.
	ARTICLE IV. Duties of Officers.
	The president and officers herein named,
together with the board of directors shall
be authorized to transact all business per-
taining to the association and the schools.
	ARTICLE V. Special Duties.
	Section 1.—The president shall preside at
all meetings and shall have a voice in all
matters connected with the welfare of this
institution. In the absence of the president,
the vice president shall preside and perform
such duties as pertain to the office.
	Recording Secretary.
	Section 2.—The recording secretary or
her assistant shall keep a roll of the mem-
bers and call the same at each meeting re-
cording the presence or absence of each
member and shall also take the minutes of
each meeting, and an account of all money
received, which shall be submitted for cor-
rections or approval and duly recorded.
	Corresponding Secretary And Treasurer.
	Section 3.—It shall be the duty of the
corresponding secretary to conduct the cor-
respondence, of the association, under, the
direction of the president and perform such
other duties as pertain to the office.
	Section 4.—The treasurer shall have
charge of all funds of the association and
shall deposit in such bank as the directors
shall designate, and shall pay all indebted-
ness of the association by checks signed by
the treasurer; such bills having been pre-
viously approved by the board of directors.
	Visiting Schools.
	Section 5.—It shall be the duty of the
officers and directors of the association to
visit the schools that are established and to

[Column 2]
have an understanding of all general mat-
ters and give such encouragment as will
be beneficial and will tend to the strengthen-
ing of the work in hand.
	ARTICLE VI.—Advisory Board.
	There shall be an Advisory Board con-
sisting of women of experience to which
all general matters should be referred per-
taining to the interests of the association
and of the schools connected therewith.
	ARTICLE VII.—Meetings.
	There shall be a meeting of the officers
and board of directors, at which the
Advisory Board may also be present, once
every month at such time and place as
shall be decided upon by the members of
the board. Seven members shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of business
and a majority vote of those present shall
carry.
	Section 1.—An Executive Committee
consisting of seven members shall be
appointed by the President, who shall meet
regularly every two weeks to transact
business and decide such matters as shall
come before them to be acted upon.
	Section 2. Special meetings of the
Board of Directors may be called at any
time by the President whenever she may
deem it necessary or expedient, or by three
members of the Board of Directors should
the circumstances require it, due notice
having been previously given to each mem-
ber by the corresponding secretary.
	Section 3.—There shall be an annual
meeting of the association for the purpose
of reporting the progress of the work which
has been accomplished, and for the election
of officers for the ensuing year, and for the
transaction of such other business as may
be brought before the association.
	ARTICLE VIII.—Amendments.
	These rules and regulations may be
amended;previous notice having been given
of such amendment in writing, to the
president, and presented at a regular meet-
ing of the board one week before.
	E. B. WELLS,
	DONETTA SMITH,
	EMELINE Y. WELLS.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, May 2nd,
1896. President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. Singing, “For the strength of the
hills.” Prayer by Elizabeth Webb. Sing-
ing, “Let those who would be Saints.”
	Sister Horne, “those who desire a blessing
from the Lord receive it by meeting to-
gether, we need blessing for the adversary
is seeking to destroy the people. Bishop
Hunter once said he feared the lethargy of
the Saints, for then the Evil one took ad-
vantage of them to destroy them. The
Lord has said we cannot serve two masters,
those who are not for us are against us.
Do right and every good thing will be given
to those who seek the Lord. It is a time
we should be wide awake.” Some years
ago she heard Brother Jones of Provo relate
a dream, he described Satan, he spoke to
him, and said, "I told you to leave my
house” “yes” said Satan “but you never
told me not to come back again,” spoke of
the strength Satan had; Satan after saying

[Column 2]
much more said, “you are right, and the
Gospel is right, but I shall fight you to the 
end,” “it is a continual warfare, let the
good overcome the evil, and if we make
this effort we are sure to secure a crown of
glory.”
	Sister Z. D. H. Young, “we come here
to partake of the bread of life, there is no
people who have the teaching we have.”
Bore a testimony to the truth of this work.
Loved these meetings, spoke of the good
instruction given at Sister Susan Stringam’s .
funeral. “There is no dark, shadow of
death for a Saint.” President Young said
it was only those like David that did wrong
who need fear the valley and shadow of
death. “We left all and came here and the
Lord greatly blessed us.” She was very
thankful for the association of her sisters.
Prayed that this day would be a time of re-
freshing. Prayed the Lord to bless all.
	Sister Mary A. P. Hyde told of the won-
derful changes that had taken place and
the many inventions since she was a child.
We now lived in the times that had been
predicted. We should seek for the spirit of
prayer, we should never cease to pray in
our hearts. Many think they are doing
God’s service when they fight against us.
Spoke of the gathering of the Jews. Re- .
joiced that the Lord had blessed her greatly
“Guard against temptation, if there is a
weak side Satan attacks us there.” Told 
how she received the gospel, spoke of the 
testimony in reference to celestial mar-
riage, and knew it was of God. Spoke in
tongues. A beautiful interpretation was 
given by Sister Zina D. H. Young.
	Sister Horne spoke of the number of
young missionaries, many not being over.
nineteen years of age, who had been called
to the islands of the sea, and other countries; 
she had three grandsons sent to the Samoan
Islands, to preach the gospel, and Sister
Hyde also had a young son sent to Germany,
felt that they were where they could
serve the Lord and be preserved from the
temptations and trials that were about to
come.
	Sister Clara Cannon said we were blessed
in having so many sisters to give us in-
struction. We are a blessed band of sisters 
many of those who were here associated
with the prophet, and can tell us so many 
things that are interesting about him, testi
fied that the angels were here. Think of
this as a protection against evil. We must
all have trials, they are blessings in disguise.
We should live above noticing trifles. Be
humble, live that we may please our Father.
We need to fast more, to overcome our
weakness, and be able to rise above these
trifles that take up our attention. She was
the only one here of her family. Spoke of
the privilege of working in the temple, and
the goodness of the Lord unto her. Guard
and watch over our children continually,
especially while they are small that they 
may not get false ideas before they come to
years of discretion. Prayed that the Lord
would give us wisdom to do that which was 
right.
	Sister Brixon bore her testimony, spoke
of the power we would have through fast-
ing and prayer. Gave an instance of her
prayers being answered. The Lord had
blessed her wonderfully. Spoke of the
efficacy of the administration of the 
ordinances on her own and her child’s cases,
and felt to thank the Lord for it.
	A Sister bore her testimony, said her
daughter was raised from the dead, let us


[Column 1]
pray to our Father so that we might be
preserved in the faith, related a dream.
“All are tempted old and young.”
	Sister Morris sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
Then bore her testimony. Knew that this
was the Kingdom of God. Had never
seen the day that she doubted although she
had been a member for forty years. Felt
the Spirit of the Lord is the true comforter.
We had every thing to fill us with joy.
Wished many others were here. If we
have the love of God we can stand every-
thing. Prayed that we might all meet on
the other side.
	Sister Nuttall said although she had
never covenanted with the Lord to speak
in these meetings, she had been promised
that if she did so her health would improve.
Be humble before the Lord and pray con-
stantly that we may overcome. Spoke of
the responsibility of each one individually
to teach and encourage one another.
Testified of the truth of the work. If the
power of evil is increasing so is that of
good. 
	Sister Nunn gave an instance of the
benefit of faith, testified that all that would
listen to the whisperings of the Spirit
would do right.
	Mrs. Samson, spoke of her trip with
the choir to San Francisco, felt that she
wanted to let every one hear the Gospel.
Spoke of the earnestness of the mission-
aries there.
	Another Sister acknowledged the bless-
ings of the Lord and gifts of the Gospel.
	Sister Francis told of her experience in
London, and told of her pride in the Gospel.
Was pleased to have been accounted worthy
to work in the temple.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, “This God is the God we adore.”
Benediction by Sister L. D. Alder. 
		ANNIE T. HYDE, Sec. pro-tem.
		BOX ELDER REPORT.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
first Ward meeting house on June the 9th
at 10 o’clock a. m. Singing, “The time is
nigh, the happy time.” Prayer by Sister
Annie Wixom. Singing, “Great God at-
tend while Zion sings.” Roll called,
minutes read and accepted.
	President Olivia Widerborg made a few
opening remarks.
	S. T. Booth, President First Ward, “I
have a desire to perform my duty if the
Lord will help me.
	President C. Peterson, Bear River City:
“We have peace and unity in our ward.”
	Hannah Harper, President North ward,
“We should try to overlook the failings of
each other.”
	Ella Watson, President Beaver Dam: “It
is my greatest aim to raise my children to
be good and honorable.
	Christine Jensen, President of Mantua:
“Our ways are not the Lord’s way, we are
trying in our weak ways to do the best we
can.”
	Harriet Hunsaker, President Honeyville:
“I feel there is a great and good work for
us all to perform.”
	Fanny Graehl; “I feel more able to ap-
preciate every day the blessings we enjoy.”
	Sister Bigler, Second Ward: “I pray the
Lord to bless us all, that we may under-
stand our position.
	Francis Young, Three Mile Creek; “We

[Column 2]
have experienced a sad calamity, our Presi-
dent has lost her home, almost.”
	Sister Loveland, Deweyville: “We are
but a small society but we are trying to do
our duty.”
	Emelia D. Madsen spoke on true charity.
	Sister Widerborg invited those from afar to
picnic prepared by the members of First
Ward.
	Singing, “Mid scenes of confusion.”
Benediction by Counselor Zella Reese.
	Afternoon session: Singing “What
wondrous things mine eyes behold.”
	Prayer by Bishop Hanson.  Singing,
“Great is Thy work, my God, my King.”
	President Mary Watkins, Fourth Ward,
hope we may always have a determina-
tion to serve God.”
	President Mary Jensen, Third Ward:
“I know this is the work of God, we
ought to be grateful that we are here, one
with this people.”
	Counselor Sister Robins, Snowville: “It
is quite a privilege for me to be here,” bore
a strong testimony.
	Sister Owens, Willard: “May the Lord
help us to set a good example for our
young people.”
	President Olivia Widerborg; “There is
nothing better than to try to serve God and
do His will. Let us try wherever we are
placed to live as Latter-day Saints.”
	Bishop Harper: “Jesus said ‘My sheep
hear my voice and follow me a stranger they
will not follow,’ ’’this applied as well to the
sisters as the brethren.
	Counselor Zella Reese: “I am grateful I
am so far preserved in the faith and still
have a desire to press onward.”
	Bishop McMaster: “It is not the wisdom
of man that has organized this Church in
its perfection. I think if any, carry out
the words of the Savior on the mount, it is
the Relief Society.
	Sister Lizzie Burt: “I always want to do
what I am called upon to do.
	President Rudger Clawson referred to the
three glories spoken of in Doctrine and
Covenants, our wishing to be there, will not
bring us there, referred to those who have
come up through great tribulation.
	Is it not a beautiful principle, if there is
any important move, you can go and
counsel with those who stand at the head.
	Singing, “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded.” Benediction by Cecelia Nelson.
		EMELIA  D. MADSON, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	Saturday, 16th, Nov. 1895.—Arrived in
time for Table d’ hotel, at Nice, Hotel
Westminister on the promenade des
Anglais, facing the Sea, with an
“Ascenseur” (elevator.) If anything ever
tried my nerves, it was the “Ascenseur.”
You step in, sit down, in front there is
nothing to keep you from falling headlong,
they touch a button and up you go.
	Where will we land exclaimed Mrs. C—
when for the first time we went sailing up
to the sixth floor. Doubtful—and I felt
weak. Nice the largest and gayest town
on the “Riviera,’’ formerly of the Sardinian
States; but ceded to France with Savoy,
by the King of Sardinia, in 1859, for Mili-
tary services against Austria, is situated on
the mouth of the river Paglion, on the
Mediterranean, is surrounded with a ram-
part and divided into the Old and New
town, the former with crowded and narrow
streets, the latter straight and regular.

[Column 2]
We walked about the town looked into
the jewelry stores, the gems were real,
we did the winter garden and finding there
would be no concert, made them give us
back our money. Mr. Mc V. said perhaps
you think that is gall, but we paid for a
concert advertised outside. The garden is
a beautiful place with reading rooms, where
you are requested not to talk, then you
walk into the grounds, under cover, where
you chat and listen to music.
	The bathing pavilion is something like
that at Saltair, not nearly so large,
nor does it extend out into the
the water so far. We saw gaily dressed
people all along the promenades, it re-
minded me of Cony Island.
	The gardens are just as beautiful as at
Cannes, even the green hedges are covered
with flowers—we saw the blue plumbago,
yellow acacia, white jasmine and climbing
roses, with heliotrope and scarlet geranium
all over the hedges, and the walls at the
Villas and Hotels, were covered with a
framework of foliage and flowers. The
evening was warm, the perfume delightful,
I opened my window and watched the
people pass, until the swish of the waves
made me sleepy, early in the morning, was
awakened by the Fishermen drawing in
their seine.
	At noon we left, with pleasant recollec-
tions of Nice, after leaving the station, a
curve in the road gave us a splendid view of
the ramparts and that part of the city seen
in pictures.
	The journey to Monaco was short, it is
difficult to recall all the various and charm-
ing villas, landscapes, castles and Islands
and most interesting old manesteries, all
along the journey we have the Sea to our
right—to the left the Thames—and in the
background the Alps. While the gardens
contain olive, lemon, orange and magnolia
trees and do not become monotonous as they
differ according to the ideas of the landscape
gardener.
	All too soon we arrive at the capital
town of Monaco—it stands on a rocky
promontory in the Mediterranean, eight
miles from Nice, it was fortified at the time 
of Louis XIV.
	Monaco, is a small principality of Italy— 
between the province of Nice and Genoa,
governed by a prince. Everywhere are
pleasant rambles, our object was Monte
Carlo—a short walk from Monaco, it is
picturesquely situated on a prominent rock
overlooking the Sea, with the Maritime
Alps, in the back
	Everything is beautifully clean, no where, 
not even at the station did we see a speck
of dirt. We did not take the “Ascenseur”
up to the Casino, prefered walking up the
flight of steps, which were covered with
flowers and plants from all climes; the
grounds are fine and the promenades extend
around the rocky point, with fine views
which ever way you turn.
	Then I went into the threatre the music 
is of the best—one piece was Paderewski
Minuet, rendered exactly as composed.
	Just at evening we walked upon the ter-
race, looking to our right was a dazzling
view of Monaco, all the lamps were lighted
around the promontory and along the shore, 
looking, as Mrs. B. remarked, like a neck-
lace of diamonds, they were sparkling and
bright, while back of us over the moun-
tains hung clouds. We sauntered slowly,
to the cars. About eight o’clock we ar-
rived at Mentone.


[Column 1]
	Grand Hotel du Louvre, where all
arrangements had been made for us by our
manager.
	It is delightful here, the hote[-] [-]e many
we have seen abounds in delightful sur-
prises, lovely arbors, beautiful reading and
lounging rooms, so filled with potted plants
and vines you would imagine yourself in a
green-house. “The mildest climate, fogs
unknown, the sky generally cloudless, with
gardens of lemon and olive trees, and gaily
dressed people,” and the diminutive flea and
mosquito are indefatigable.
	Sunday, attended service at St. Johns—
Text “Who shall establish me, my body of
humiliation,” seventh chapter John, the
Epistle to the Philipians.
	This is a great resort for invalids and
churches are well attended, when one
grows old and ill, they believe there is but
one way—the right way.
	Monday 18th, Nov. By express train to
Genoa, in the direction of Ventimille and
Pisa, Rome, the railway runs close to the
banks of the Tyrrhenean Sea, on the
Riviera, the scenery is beautiful as a Poet’s
dream, the flowers, fruit, palm and orange
trees grow almost to the shore, the route
was attractive to the beautiful city justly
named the “Proud” (“Genoa la Superba.”
At the station there is a magnificent, monu-
ment to Columbus.
	We walked to the Hotel Grand de
Lundres, only a few steps. Genoa, a forti-
fied Maritime City, in the N. W. of Italy,
now capital of the Sardinian States, on the 
Gulf of Genoa, is built on seven very steep
hills, in the form of an Amphitheatre, on
the slope of the Appennines, its marble
palaces are on the seaward slope, with the
sheltering hills in the background.
	This is a most commercial City, owing to
its large harbor, which is in the form of a
semicircle, with a diameter of 1.000 fathoms,
enclosed by two strong moles, the opening
between which is 350 fathoms in width but
the entrance is difficult; the divinely,
heavenly blue of the water, has taken on
the tints of Mother—of—Pearl.
	We ordered carriages and drove first
through three streets in succession. Strada
Balbi, Strada Nuova, and Strada Nouvis-
simia, broad streets on which are the marble
palaces of the great families; the architec-
ture is fine and they are embellished with
painting and sculpture. We drive on a
road called via di circonvallazione over the
hills back of the city where we saw the old
Roman acqueduct, and to the Campo Santo,
then through the parks Acqua, Sala and
Viletta de Negro, where we had fine views
of the city and Mediterranean.
	We visited the Palazzo della Signora, the
ancient residence of the doge: the Cathedral
Lorenzo, with the tomb of St. John the
Baptist. The church was built in 1100,
often remodeled and restored the facade is of
black and white marble in alternate stripes
and looked somber.
	The Municipal Palace, containing
Paganini’s violin, and letters of Christopher
Columbus, the palace is rich simplicity and
contains in Mosaic, a portrait of Columbus
and one of Andrea Doria, a celebrated
Genoese Naval commander, who made his
name famous by his Naval exploits,
particularly against Barbarossa, and the
African Corsairs, he delivered Genoa from
the oppression of the French, he was in
1528 honored by the Senate, with the title
of Father and Savior of his Country.
A statue was erected to his memory, that

[Column 2]
this palace was built for him, the two portraits
are in the same room.
	Our time was limited so we only drove
into the Court of the Palace of His Majesty
King Humbert. There were other things
we prefered to see.
	In the palace Brignole Lole, we saw
masterpieces of Guido, Poalo Veronese,
Titiens, Von Dycks, Turner’s and other
Artists. There are many magnificent
churches, the Church Cariguano, built at
the expense of a citizen named Sauli, was
most splendid, his grandson erected a
monument of equal magnificence. The
bridge of the same name, is of great height,
connecting two hills and forming one of the
famous resorts of the Genoese. There are
several theatres, numerous Convents, a
University with a botanic garden and
Museum. A great hospital for the infirm
which with the poor house, “Albergo dei
Poveri,” ar like palaces, but the poor
won’t stay there, prefer to beg; there are
fifteen female asylums.
	We found great delight in the jewelry
stores, where the silver jewelry was most
beautiful. Now, last but not least the
thieves, two kinds, those so expert, they
will take your purse and be off while you
look at them and that class, who steal your
things to show you how gracefully they
can restore them again and you give them
centimes. They all have their own way,
as if you accuse them, the Police take you
along to appear at the trial, you must pro-
cure an interpreter and then you put them
behind the bars, but do not recover your
loss. Tomorrow off for Pisa.		KIM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED at Union Nov. 10th, ’96 after a lingering ill-
ness our beloved Sister Miriam Jones; she was a
faithful member of our Relief Society, as well as
being an active teacher for many years.
	She was charitable to the poor and beloved by
all who knew her. She leaves a loving husband
and three sons to mourn her loss besides a num-
ber of grand children.
	We desire to emulate her many virtues and
loving kindness to the needy: although through
failing health she was not able to meet with us
since our reorganization. We feel to appreciate
her labors in the past and desire a copy of these
resolutions placed on our record book and
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Now she’s gone we’ll not recall her
		From a paradise of bliss
	(Where no evil can befall her)
		To a changing world like this
	Her loved name will never perish
		Nor her memory crown the dust
	For the Saints of God will cherish
		The remembrance of the just.
				MARY A. SMART, President.
				EMMA BURGON, Rec. Sec.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	For Sister Mary Ann Stevens, wife of Edward
Stevens deceased, who departed this life February
6th, A. D. 1896.
	Whereas, an all-wise providence has called
away from our midst to a higher sphere, our be-
loved sister and co-worker in Payson Relief
Society, be it
	Resolved that in the departure of our beloved
sister we have lost an able and efficient worker,
also
	Resolved that we cherish her memory from the
fact that God and her religion were higher in her
thoughts than any worldly aims; that we do
esteem her faithful labors and devotion to the
Gospel as worthy of emulation to every member
of our society, further
	Resolved that we sincerely sympathize with the
bereaved children and friends in the loss of a
loving mother, sincere friend and true Latter-day
Saint, again 
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon

[Column 2]
the records of the Second Ward, Payson Relief
Society; a copy sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and one to her family, with these lines, appro-
priately selected,
	“Beautiful Toiler thy work all done
	Beautiful Soul into glory gone
	Beautiful life with its crowns now won,
		God giveth thee rest;
	Rest from all sorrows, watching and fears
	Rest from all possible sighing and tears
	Rest through all God’s endless years
		At home with the blest.”
	Resolutions of respect for Sister Sarah Brewer-
ton, wife of Charles Brewerton, who departed this
life April 28th, 1896.
	Since God in His infinite wisdom and mercy
has seen fit to remove to another sphere of action,
our respected and beloved sister Sarah, who held
many responsible positions in our Relief Society,
and was for many years a President of the
Primary Association; be it
	Resolved, that while we bow in humble sub-
mission to the will of ‘‘Him who doeth all things
well” we do recognize in her death the severe
loss of a faithful energetic and efficient teacher
and wise counselor in our Society; a true friend
to the needy a comforter in the hour of trouble,
a devoted wife, mother, and true Latter-day
Saint. We also recognize in her faithful labors
and devotion to the cause of Zion, an example
worthy of emulation of each member of our
society; further be it,
	Resolved, that we honor and cherish her
memory and many virtues, for peace and charity
covered her face as a mantle, cheerfulness beamed
from her countenance. We acknowledge the
hand of God in our loss, her charms endeared
her to us all, we shall miss her at our gatherings,
again,
	Resolved, that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and family relatives with the
bright thought of a glorious meeting in the world
to come, over which sin and sorrow have no con-
trol—and yet,
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread up- 
on the records of the Relief Society of Payson
Second Ward, published in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT and a copy presented the husband and
family, with these selected appropriate lines, 
	“It was so sudden, our white lips said
	How we shall miss her, the beautiful dead,
	Who’ll take the place of the precious one fled
			But God knows best;
	We know He watches the sparrows that fall
	Hears the sad cry of grieved hearts that call,
	Friends, husband, children, He loveth them all
			We can trust for the rest.”
				JANE TANNER, President.
SARAH FINLAYSON, 
ELIZABETH B. STARK,	{Committee, in be-
MILLIE STARK.				half of Relief
							Society.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED April 14, 1896, in Castle Dale, Emery Co.
Utah, at her residence, Sister Annette Johnson
Larson at the age of fifty four years, nine months
and one day.
	Deceased was born in Sweden on the thirteenth
day of July, 1841. Received the gospel at the
age of fifteen and emigrated to Utah in 1861;
lived in Brigham Young’s family for some time,
after which she went to Spring City, Sanpete Co.,
on a visit to her sisters who resided there, while
there she became acquainted with Elder Chris-
tian G. Larsen and in 1864 was married to him in
Salt Lake City. She ever proved to be a faith-
ful wife and loving mother. She was blessed
with six children, two of whom have passed away
before her; the other four were at her beside in
her last moments and still live to mourn her loss.
	Her life has been an eventful one. She having
borne testimony of the truth of the Gospel to
many in her native country as well as in Zion.
For many years she was President of the Primary
Association in this place and as such won the
love and respect of all the children under her
charge; but owing to her failing health she was
forced to resign her office and for the last two
years was confined a great deal of the time to her
room, and much of the time to her bed. During
all her sickness and affliction she never mur-
mured, but bore her troubles bravely. Through
the mercy of the Lord she was able to go to the
Temple at Manti nearly two years ago and there
received all the blessings that can be obtained in
the house of the Lord in connection with her
husband and family. Thus she is fully prepared


to go into the presence of our Heavenly
Father with a record to be proud of.
	On account of her being a faithful member of
the Relief Society of Castle Dale, we the mem-
bers of said society
	Resolve, to mourn her loss and sympathize
with her grief stricken family.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Adopted by the officers and members of the
Castle Dale Relief Society to the memory of
Sister Marie K. Sorensen Larsen who died very
sudden and entirely unexpected January 21, 1895.
She was born in Arnager, Bornhalm, Denmark
1838, and was among the first converts to
Mormonism there, She became acquainted with
Elder C. G. Larsen, now President of Emery
Stake, Utah, and was married to him in the
spring of 1857 and went through the hardships of
pioneer life in Sanpete County, and tried the same
in this County. In 1894, she in company with her
husband and rest of the family, performed
ordinances in the Manti Temple wherewith she
enjoyed great joy and received many blessings.
For several years she acted as first counselor in
the presidency of our Relief Society where she
made herself loved and respected by her kind,
calm and peaceful disposition.
	Be it therefore resolved, that as our Heavenly
Father in his wisdom has seen fit to call home
to a better life this our noble and faithful sister,
we herewith express our sincere sympathy for
the bereaved husband and her big flock of
children who more than before now can value her
worth as wife and mother, and in our society
work in this ward she will be missed by us all.
	Be it further resolved that these resolutions be
placed upon our society record and a copy of the
same be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Faithful through this troubled life,
	To her God and husband true,
A Saint as mother, a Saint as wife,
	A crown of glory is her due.

	DIED at her residence in Castle Dale Emery Co.
Utah, Nov. 18, 1895, Sister Annie E. Seely, wife
Justus Wellington Seely.
	Sister Seeley met her death by being thrown
from a vehicle while on her way to Orangeville.
The horses became fractious and the driver
Brother W. L. Cash unable to control them; they
ran away throwing both from the vehicle break-
ing Brother Cash’s foot and caused fatal injuries
to Sister Seely from which she died the same
evening. She leaves a husband and ten children
to mourn her loss. Sister Seely was one of the
pioneer women of this valley as also one who has
lived and labored among the Ute Indians in
Thistle Valley making many friends among those
natives of America. For many years past she
has been a faithful member of the Relief Society
of Castle Dale as also first counselor in the Y. L.
M. I. Association. Has also offiiciated as the
President of the Primary Association of this
place and at the time of her death was an officer
in the Woman Suffrage Association. In all these
callings she perfermed a good work and has ever
been gentle and kind to all.
	Therefore be it resolved that we the members
of the Relief Society of Castle Dale do
sympathise with her bereaved husband and
family.
	Resolved that this obituary be placed upon the
records of the society and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
MARIE OLSEN, President.
NATHALIE ANDERSEN, Sec.
Castle Dale Emery Co. Utah, May 1896


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A BRILLIANT WEDDING.

	AN extremely enjoyable event was the
wedding reception of Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Slaughter which took place at Parowan
Iron Co., July 6. The sweet bride has
been Co. Sec. of the W. S. A. ever since its
organization, faithful and untiring, so
immediately after the family reception a
grand ball was tendered the young couple
by the W. S. A. of this place, all members
through the county were invited. The
ball was given in our beautiful new social
hall, which was neatly decorated with the
national and suffrage colors as well as a
profusion of fragrant flowers, the wedding
bell was conspicuous with the motto “Joy


and Peace” on a large yellow banner,
which brightly reigned throughout the
entertainment. Ice cream and cake was
served to 135 appreciative guests.
	Of all the officers of the County not one
could be missed more than our “Ella”
beside being our efficient Secretary, she has
been an earnest worker in every way that
she could to forward our cause.
	We fully realize our loss, but are happy
in knowing that Beaver (where the bride
makes her future home) will have added to
her corps from our ranks, a noble promoter
of all good causes.
	Mrs. Pheobe Evans, a suffrage member
and worker, was married to Mr. Frank
Westbrook the day of the ball, although
they intended it to be a quiet affair we dis-
covered the fact in time to divide the hon-
ors with them.
	May unbounded joy and prosperity ever
attend these worthy pairs is the fervent
prayer of,
E. CRANE WATSON,
President Iron Co. W. S. A.


LOVINGLY INSCRIBED.

[To My Friend Alice, on her Fortieth Birthday
April 3rd, 1896.]
DEAR Friend, you say you are growing old,
	That today completes your two-score years;
Dost grieve! Nay, rejoice, each milestone passed
	Counts thee one less in this vale of tears.

Has Time, with his hoary fingers, wrought
	Silvery threads, ’mong thy darker hair,
Traced lightly faint lines, which, year by year
	Will deepen to furrows, and dost thou care?

Time laughs and mocks us at every change,
	From youth’s sweet spring e’en to wintry age;
Faded cheeks, dimmed vision, the stiffened limb,
	And kindred ills that fill up life’s page.

Let him laugh and enjoy his frolics,
	Shall not we, at the end of life’s race,
Throw off this marred, outer cov’ring, when,
	Lo, a soul, which he cannot deface.

This immortal soul will ne’er grow old,
	Age adds lustre instead of decay,
Our bodies of dust, to dust returns.
	Our spirits live and progress for aye.

Soon this school we call life will be o’er,
	All its sorrows and burdens laid down,
Our education on earth complete,
	And life’s cross be exchanged for a crown.

And though our lessons today seem hard,
	Only by work can we reach the goal;
Only those who are tried come forth as gold;
	’Tis suffring that sanctifies the soul.

The uncut stone is of little worth;
	Tempered with care is the choicest steel;
So our lives are made the more sublime,
	By the tears we shed and the woes we feel.

Let Father “Do what seemeth Him good;
	As clay in the hands of the potter be,
When moulded and fashioned fit for use,
	He’ll appoint thy place in eternity.

The discipline that each soul requires,
	As meted out by a loving hand;
When fully developed, thy call will be;
	Daughter return to thy Fatherland.
								NELLIE.


THE Kansas newspapers are saying:
“About the brightest woman the suffragists
ever have brought to Kansas is Charlotte
Perkins Stetson, of Boston. She is a
good looker and a good dresser, and she
thinks like chain lightning.


SURPRISE PARTY.

	At 2 o,clock June 22nd, the members of
the Relief Society met at the ward meeting
house, to do honor to their beloved sister
and Secretary, Sarah Eggersen Cluff, who
has recently removed to the 2nd Ward.
After opening exercises Pres. M. M. Wat-
son expressed her appreciation for Sister
Cluff and the good work she has been
enabled to accomplish while residing in the
4th Ward. Sister Watson was followed by
Stake President, Mary John, Counselor
Marilla Daniels, Secretary, Caroline Daniels
Mary M. Boyden, Caroline Pratt, Cor.
Secretary, Barbara Silck, Hannah Arrow-
Smith, Sarah Baker, Mattie Keeler and
Brother J. E. Booth, who all testified to
the estimable qualities of our sister. By
special request Bro. S. E. Eggersen and
Sister Fannie S. Taylor recited. The
exercises were varied by congregational
singing. President M. M. Watson in an
appropriate speech presented Sister Cluff
with an autograph album. Sister Cluff
expressed her gratitude in a few well chosen
words, after which all retired to an adjoin-
ing room, and feasted on strawberries, ice
cream and cake.
	All join in wishing our dear sister much
joy and happiness in her future career.
A FRIEND.
Provo 4th Ward Relief Society.


CLASS IN MIDWIFERY

	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with         DR. PRATT, 
	226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

LOW RATES TO THE EAST.
	Your attention is directed to the exceptionally
low rates in effect this coming season to nearly
every prominent point in the East.
	Never before has such an excellent opportunity
been afforded for a Summer Vacation Tour, or for
visiting friends in the East. We mention below a
few of the places to which greatly reduced rates
have been made. The UNION PACIFIC is the line
that will give you the best service to any of these
points.
Chicago, Ill., July 7. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Buffalo, N. Y., July 7-11. Rate—One fare for the round trip
	plus $2.00.
Washington, D. C., July 7-13. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., July 16-19. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., July 21-24. Rate—One and one-third fare on
	certificate plan.
St. Louis, Mo., July 22. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., August 16-24. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Cleveland, Ohio, August 23-30. Rate—(Probably) one fare for
	the round trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 25-27. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
St. Paul, Min., September 1-4. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip (in some cases less).
	For full information as to dates of sale and limit of tickets,
time of trains, etc., call on
	CITY TICKET OFFICE 201 MAIN STREET.
D. E. BURLEY, G. A. P. D.	D. S. TAGGART, T. P. A.

R.K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 17

VOL. 25. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1896. No. 3.


CONTENTS:
	The Farm—M. E. K. U. W. P. C.—Ellis R.
Shipp, Rec. Sec. S. L. CO, W. S. A.—Cassie
Newman, Sec. Notes And News. Half A Cen-
tury—Julia Cruse Howe. In The Dear Defunct
Deseret Hospital—Thomine Einarson. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina Y. Hyde Sec.
R. S. Report—E. J. Bennett, Sec. In Memoriam
—Susannah Mortenson—Emma Burrows—Ann
Cook Parsons. Woman’s Work And Woman’s
Endeavor—Frances Graham French. Utah
School For The Blind.
	EDITORIAL:—Abraham Hoagland Cannon.
Editorial Notes.
	Poetry:—In Memory Of Our Beloved Apostle
—R. M. F. Back Again—L. M. Hewlings. The
Little Head That Fell—Irene Ackerman.


IN MEMORY OF OUR BELOVED
APOSTLE.

ABRAHAM HOAGLAND CANNON.

BEND low your heads ye lofty peaks,
In sadness bow, fair Zion weeps;
And hide ye vales beneath a cloud,
While we her children weep aloud.

O murmur softly, rippling stream,
When hearts are sad too gay you seem;
To fairy dell go! hie away
Where stricken mortals never stray.

Cease song-bird, cease your glad refrain,
And tune your notes to softer strain;
How can ye be so blithe and free,
When all around, you sorrow see?

Did you not know that noble man,
That true apostle of the Lamb?
Of whom ’tis said his life was pure,
Whose absence we must now endure.

Have ye ne’er listened to the voice
That made his hearers heart rejoice?
As filled with charity and love,
He taught the way to God above.

Nor have ye seen the kindly smile,
That showed the heart contained no guile?
Nor heard the lonely widow bless,
The hand that brought her happiness?

And care ye nothing for the sire,
Whose bosom burns with heavenly fire?
But now with grief and sorrow wrung,
He mourns a brave and loyal son.

Do ye not heed the widow’s tears—
O Father soothe their coming years,
And guard them with Thy loving care,
Let hope and trust displace despair.

The children too, O Father bless.
And clasp them in Thy fond caress;
May harm or evil never come
To offspring of this chosen one.

And Father comfort all Thy saints,
And listen to our heartfelt plaints;
Teach us O Lord that we may see,
Thine hand controls our destiny.

Lo! comes the answer through the vale,
From mountain peaks and flow’ry dale;
And e’eu the voices from the tree,
Blend with the stream’s sweet melody.

“We cannot mourn the absent one,
That such a glor’ous work has done;
We know it was the Master’s will,
And joy His wishes to fulfill.


Ye erring mortals cease to grieve,
“Though he were dead yet shall he live,”
But join in our triumphal song,
That one so valiant and so strong—

In faith, and righteounsess and worth,
Was for a moment lent to earth,
An almost perfect light to shed,
That in its rays your feet may tread. 

Then being all too good to stay,
Like some bright star he leads the way;
Hosanna! this our song shall be,
Death’s swallowed up in victory.
							R. M. F.


[Column 1]
THE FARM.

	THE farm was the home of my child-
hood and early youth, and it does indeed
seem like a heavenly vision when called to
my recollection. Yet it may be because
of my youth which makes it seem so
heavenly, for that which pleases the eye
and gladdens the heart in youth is most 
charming I admit. Yet I think the aged
would not fail to appreciate this farm when
I tell them of the many good qualities it
had.
	It had previously been the home of my
grand parents before it came into our
hands, and also been the home of their
parents before this time. They were well
acquainted with what a farm needed and
accordingly this farm was in good condi-
tion. No irrigation, plentiful showers of
rain in the State of New York.
	In the first place the fruit which was my
delight was plentiful; early apples in July,
then fall apples and again winter apples.
Cherries and plums and pears, but no
peaches in Montgomery Co., but plentiful
further west, but strawberries, raspberries,
blackberries, gooseberries and currants
were abundant, and a variety of melons
and vegetables of every kind.
	Not only so, but we made our sugar
from our maples which was a delightful
task to do. Our bees made our honey,
our geese furnished us with nice feather
beds, and our sheep with good warm
blankets and heavy coverlets, besides good
clothing which was sent to the fulling
mills to be colored and pressed; it came
home as nice as if just from the store.
	This farm also had nice flax growing
on it, with which my grandmother and
her daughters spun beautiful linen. Our
pillow cases were as fine as you would
wish to see, also our table linen, and was
durable; some of it was brought to this
valley. The sheets were coarser and also
the counterpanes, which were woven with
heavy cords or ribbed forms. My grand-
mother spun herself a set of bed curtains
woven in damask form, and the top valence
was trimmed with netting and also the sides
of the curtains made by her own hands,
and also the top valence of the window
curtains:  Our table was well supplied
with milk, butter and eggs, beside fruit
and vegetables of every kind.
	We had sweet cider bottled down to a
syrup which was ready for our mince pies,
and also for our apple sauce which was

[Column 2]
made in the fall to last all winter. This
could be used for pies if we wished.
	But I must not forget to tell you that we
made our own threshing machine. It was
a fact. Our neighbors would come and help
thresh and take their pay off the farm in
grain and fruit, cider and vegetables,
which made their tables as comfortable as
ours.
	Then we could take a load of grain and
dried fruit etc., perhaps butter and eggs, to
Albany only 40 miles from our home, and
with these could buy silk or crepe or any
nice dress goods one wished to have for an
extra occasion; all this without money.
And when I think of it I often say in my
heart why go crazy because money is not
more plentiful. No, let us have more farms
and learn how to take proper care of them,
for all men are not farmers, oh no, some
men will raise a greater crop of weeds than
anything else. Such persons will do well
to raise stock, or learn a trade, then they
can earn money and pay the farmer for
his provisions if this suits them best. Yes
my uncles did this and I think they worked
more hours than when they lived on the
farm and were obliged to be so diligent and
faithful.
	How vividly do I call to mind the joy
and satisfaction of the farm, the home of
my childhood, although 77 years have
elapsed since that time, the time my grand-
father died after a lingering illness. Then
his sons felt the weight and burthen of
these cares, and thought it preferable to
enjoy a city life, and prefered to learn a
trade that they could handle money and
have a change. This they did; one chose
to be a carpenter, another a blacksmith,
and the youngest a coppersmith, and each
looked after their mother’s interest. This
they did, yet how soon they found how
slippery money was. It took all they
could earn to get food and clothing, with
other necessaries to make life comfortable,
and to their astonishment the money went
before they were aware of it, so it seems
in only buying the same comforts that
they had previously made on the farm.
But please remember the machinery to
make farming so light was not invented at
that time, that novelty they did not en-
joy.
	In my youth I could hardly see the use
of gold and silver, except for spoons or a
teapot or pitcher. or some furnishing for
the table. Oh no, to the farmer iron is
preferable for the same, the hammer and
the nails, as spikes must be of iron, and all
the implements he uses on the farm are to
a great extent made of iron you know.
Now I would ask if gold and silver were
not a circulating medium to exchange for
other commodoties, would it be of any
more worth than the rocks we pave the
streets with? I think not, for we read that
the time is coming when the Holy City
will be paved with gold. But at this time
it is valuable for a circulating medium; let us
use it in wisdom, remembering the words
of our God and Savior who said, if you are
not faithful to the Mammon of un-
righteousness, who will commit unto your


trust the true riches. I think this is food
for thought, is it not?
						M. E. K.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.

	ON account of other important meetings
being held on the 30th of June, which is
the regular night for the meeting of the
U. W. P. C., it was postponed until July
1st, and by consent of the President, Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp claimed the honor of enter-
taining the members at her residence, 75
Center St.
	The delightful summer evening was all
that could be desired, nature, reason and
intelligence making the occasion one long
to be remembered. Quite frequently have
we been honored with the presence of distin-
guished guests, but never before with so many
in a single evening. Among the number
were Mrs. Jennings, the honored President
of the Utah Woman’s Federation of Clubs 
of local fame, and the noted Woman
Suffrage speaker of national reputation,
Miss Elizabeth Upham Yates. The meet-
ing was called to order by the President
E. B. Wells, and opened with prayer by
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker. The Secretary
called the roll a good representation answ-
ering to their names. The minutes of
previous meeting were read and approved,
and miscellaneous business transacted. Pre-
sident Wells made a happy speech of wel-
come to our distinguished visitors.
	Mrs. E. J. McVicker gave a very interest-
ing report of her visit to Denver. In
meeting with the great number of women
united in the Colorado organization she felt a
sense of awe and reverence almost equal to
that experienced in standing in the pre-
sence of the Great Niagara. She had the
honor of presenting greetings from the
Utah clubs, and had met with the most
interested consideration, all being anxious 
to hear of this sister state. The Club Wo-
men of Denver had mutually agreed to
give no social functions on Saturdays, that
day being reserved for clubs. Spoke of
one especially brilliant affair the “Shakes-
peare breakfast”. Each lady had a
quotation from Shakespeare on her card and
was expected to give an impromptu res-
ponse in verse.
	The Denver women are very bright,
thinks the climate helps them, their work
is more bright and airy which naturally
invigorates the intellect; it is not an advan- 
tage to attempt too many things at once.
The study of Parliamentary Law helps 
brighten the mind. This club should es-
pecially excel as their work is mostly
original.
	Miss E. U. Yates was next introduced
to the Club, and all were delighted to
greet this most charming and interesting 
young woman, who had met with woman’s
clubs all over the United States. There is
nothing that so unites women as these
same clubs. 
	“Olive Schreiner’s “Book of Dreams” often
called to mind, in one of these dreams are
women seen clasping hands throughout
the world. The finest club house for wo-
men is found in Philadelphia, it is a
thoroughly financial success. In the
course of business, preceding its erection,
it was found that no married woman could
sign the business contract—none but spins-
ters according to law. I am glad to be
here in these gala days, when all are rejoic-
ing in Statehood; rejoiced to see that Utah’s

[Column 2]
star shines with a duplex radiance, both
sexes being recognized. Hail to the jubi-
lee that lets the captives go free! Speak not
of the ‘‘new woman” but the old in the
new environment. Better to study suffrage
than to go gossiping as women did former-
ly. The world is better every day for the
advanced conditions of women. The wo-
men of Utah stand on high vantage ground
and will not be only a text to the world, but
a sermon too."
	Mrs. I. Cameron Brown spoke of her
sojourn in Washington, which is really a
city of clubs, many fashionable and social
clubs; also a number of working women’s
clubs. But the Colonial Dames sweep
everything before them.
	The Woman’s Press Club is quite a
feature in Washington. The women of
these clubs are nearly all suffragists, and
are doing a good work.
	Some of these clubs have papers, others
will permit no manuscript whatever. One
very aristocratic club hold their shares at
$25.00 and will admit no working women.
They are all wealthy and own a fine club
house.
	Mrs. W. C. Jennings, was pleased to
have the opportunity of becoming acquaint-
ed with other clubs, thought all women
should keep posted and care to know what
other clubs are doing. Mrs. F. S. Rich-
ards was most happy to be present and
greet Miss Yates. Speaking of her work
in the Agricultural College, said it pre-
viously had a father but no mother.
Thought club work was more beneficial
than sewing bees and quiltings.”
	Miss Pearl Russell sang very sweetly,
“The Bridge of Sighs.” Miss Yates then
by request gave a most interesting ac-
count of her experience in China and the
characteristics of the Chinese women, said
they were our peers in intelligence and our
equals in arrogance. They were a most
peaceable and industrious people, “but they
have not educated their women. But what
can we say for America when we consider
that Harvard had been founded one hundred
and fifty years before they would even ad-
mit women to their annex; and even now
they measure up side by side with
men.”
	“It is an interesting fact that the very
first book ever written for the education of
women was written by a Chinese woman.
To be sure not a work of wide scope, but
we should recognize the fact. Infanticide
is not more common in China than Amer-
ca. An erroneous idea that all girl babies
have their necks wrung. Such a populous
nation—one tenth of the whole globe—
must have had mothers. They as a people
prefer sons because of their patriarchal
order of life. Girls go out from the
parental roof and become members of the
husband’s families. The daughters-in-law
become waiting maids to their husbands
families and the servants of the household.
All negotiations for marriage occur be-
tween the parents, and they sometimes get
fees for their services. In some instances
the parties most concerned never meet un-
til the marriage cermony. One advantage
is that the mother-in-law cannot complain
if she makes the selection herself. The
young men take their wives as a matter of
fact.
	“It is supposed that the custom of binding
the feet of infants originated from a princess
being born with deformed feet, and to hide
the condition the king thereupon issued a

[Column 3]
mandate that all girl babies should be thus
maimed. It is accomplished by breaking
the bone of the great toe and bending it
forward, the other toes being bent under
and bound tightly. This bandage impedes
the circulation and stops the growth. This
practice rarely begins before four years of
age. Large feet is a serious social factor
for women in China as prostitutes are
known by their large feet. But the Mis-
sion School has done much to check this
practice as they will not admit any with
bound feet.”
	The President suggested that our present
program be held over for the next meeting.
Hoped there would be increased interest
and punctual attendance. Meeting adjourn-
ed for one month. Mrs. Dickinson pro-
nounced the benediction.
	Strawberries, cake and cream were a fit-
ting finale to the “feast of reason and flow of
wit.”
			ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of Meeting held in the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT office, June 16, 1896.
Song ‘‘The Reason Why.” Regular pro-
gram defered for one month and Miss
Elliott invited to address the ladies. She
read extracts from letters received from
Clara Barton, bearing the Post mark of
Constantinople, in which she tells of her
work among the people who are suffering
from smallpox, dysentery and plague.
Tells of tools and grain being carried into
the interior the grain being planted and
watered until it is growing before leaving
the field, and of English doctors being sent
for to take the place of ignorant and super-
stitious ones to alleviate the pain and suf-
fering of the afflicted. She told the beauti-
ful story of the origin of the Order of the
Red Cross, and the great work done by the
members, and thinks that the work should
be in the hands of the government, al-
though every city responds to the call of
charity when any calamity befalls the
country. The Red Cross flag is the only
hospital flag known. It is the Swiss flag
reversed, the Swiss flag being a white
cross on a red back-ground, and the hos-
pital flag, a red cross on a white ground;
said that in 1892 America sent a ship-load
of grain to Russia to be planted for the
benefit of the famine stricken people. She
spoke of the great and thoroughly organiz-
ed work done by Miss Barton, and the
great good that she had done and is doing
to-day. Dr. Ferguson spoke of the work
that she and other women are doing in
Salt Lake City in organizing a Woman’s
League, where working women can be in-
structed in many ways and greatly benefit.
ed, and the dignity of labor upheld. A
letter written to the Governor of Utah
from a Boise paper, asking support from
the women of Utah was read and discussed,
after which Emily S. Richards gave an
address. Elizabeth J. McFarlane spoke
next, said that her great wish was to help -
womankind, and she believed in equai
rights to everybody. Resolved to form a
club called the Civic Club. Mrs. Fewson
Smith kindly offered her home for the next
meeting of the new club. Prayer was
offered by Mary Silver. Meeting ad-
journed for one month.
			CASSIE NEWMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BACK AGAIN.

BACK once more to the far-famed valley,
	After many long years away,
Amid its scenes awhile to tarry,
	In the evening of life’s day.
A few loved ones remain to greet me,
	From the number left here of yore,
While others are taking the places,
	Of those who have passed before.
We look upon some dear changed faces,
	Knowing that ours also has changed,
But thank God for the old-time friendships,
	And faith that has not been estranged.

We hail every token of progress—
	Improvements wrought out with the years,
Mark where once were barren waste places,
	Now beauty and blossom appears.
Glorious lake, mountain, and river,
	To this vale rich blessings impart,
Here, unique in grandeur forever,
	As marvels of nature and art.
Here too shines the *star of true freedom,
	That none may gainsay nor withstand,
Its clear light shall pierce thro’ all ages,
	For God, and home, and every land.
					L.M. HEWLINGS.
(*Equal Suffrage, no distinction of sex.)


[Column 1]
THE LITTLE HEAD THAT FELL.

I arose for household care
	When scarce shone forth the light of day,
And still, tho’ close into the night,
	A lot of sewing there did lay.
Yes all around me, everywhere
	The undarned socks and baby stuff,
The tiny dress, the little cap,
	The fluffy lace, and dainty ruff,
And other duties after that
	That mothers know they must obey.
All this I pondered on that night,
	The end of that long weary day;

Not knowing where to first begin
	So dazed was my brain with all,
When midst it came a childish voice—
	“Mamma, mamma” my boy did call,
Then rushing in with face aglow
	And eyes so bright and dimples deep,
Thro’ merry laughter ringing out,
	And roguish looks he could not keep—
"Oh Ma" he cried and danced about
	Until his curls did upward fly,
"I've such a funny dream to tell
	Just listen mamma dear—oh my!”

The night so hot the work undone,
	All then a burden seemed to me
That quickly in a rage I turned,
	And sharply cried “O let me be.”
Scarce had I spoke the bitter words,
	When all at once my careless gaze
Upon him rested thoughtlessly,
	But still I saw though in a daze,
Astonishment was on his face,
	That he the dream could not me tell.
His dancing stopped and in amaze
	The little head it fell.

Then I worked on till all complete,
	The night far gone I sat and thought
How hard my lot, how tired my feet,
	When I grew unconscious, aye was naught,
When came a sudden shining light
	And then a cloud obscured it all,
Then again it grew so bright,
	I heard a harp or baby call,
Celestial sounds came then to me,
	The light was bright the music near,
A flower was midst the star-lit air.
	An angel shining did appear.

[Column 2]
“Your lot is hard” she then did say
	“Hard work upon your spirits tell,
I come to take upon my breast,
	The little head that fell.”

Quick—with a cry of anguish wild,
	I then awoke—what was it all!
What was it all—that dream, my child!
	My brain confused I could not think,
Oh strength to rise oh power to know,
	To clear my head that’s crowded so.
Was that a dream—upon her breast
	To take my heart, my life, my joy,
Has she—Oh God, has she my boy?
	Did I repine oh— let me think,
What did the angel mean to tell
	The little head that fell.

Like one that staggered ’neath a blow,
	And strengthened up when strength re-
		turned,
I sprang upon my chamber floor,
	And fled while my poor brain yet burned,
Up with one bound the long dark stairs,
	My arm stretched out to feel the door,
Then turned the knob so silently
	My brain still by that angel tore.
There stood the cot—I could not move,
	My heart stopped beating, nor could I tell
What brought me there, nor could I see
	The little head that fell.

Then—then was the light; Oh clear,
	The cloud was gone—I was dreaming then not,
The angel then did appear,
	Smiling on me, and in the cot,
My heart cried out, I screamed with joy,
	Such joy that none but mothers tell,
And to my breast I lifted up
	The little head that fell.
					IRENE ACKERMAN.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE W. C. T. U. of New Jersey, is to
give a “Welcome Home” reception to Miss
Willard and Miss Gordon on their arrival
to their native land, about October 15th.
	AT the Kuntucky Chautauqua, held at
Lexington, the W. C. T. U. School of
Methods was in charge of Mrs. S. Fesseden,
President of the W. C. T. U. of Massa-
chusetts. One hour a day was given to
various lines of the work, and on Temper-
ance day the address was given by John G.
Woolley. There was a fine audience des-
pite the fact that the weather was not
favorable, and the multitude hung spell-
bound upon his impassioned eloquent words.
There were about two hundred white rib-
boners present during the entire assembly,
but a much larger attendance upon the day
of Mr. Woolley’s address. Mrs. Frances
E. Beauchamp, Kuntucky’s brilliant young
president is a firm believer in the value of
Chautauqua Assemblies as a means of
popular education, and believes also that a
W. C. T. U. School of Methods could be
made a most valuable adjunct to these
eighty odd Assemblies throughout the en-
tire nation. There is already a good
beginning in this direction since the W. C.
T. U. will be represented in the majority
of the leading Chautauquas during the sea-
son of 1896. The original Chautauquas
will head the list with August 5th. as its
grand W. C. T. U. day, when Miss Slack,
Mrs. Burt, Miss Ackerman and John G.
Woolley will be the speakers. There will
also be five conferences in the Hall of Phi-
losophy under the charge of Mrs. Steven-
son, where the various phases of white
ribbon work will be presented.


HALF A CENTURY.

	ON Thursday the 2nd of July, the day
being the anniversary of Sister Lydia D.
Alder’s 50th birthday, a few of her many
friends (numbering about 25) wended their
way to her residence about 4 o’clock p. m,
to offer her their sincere congratulations
	The lady, however, was not at home but
spending the afternoon with her son’s
family, but she was notified and soon made
her appearance, when happy greetings and
old time associations were freely indulged
in.
	An autograph album with her name
engraved in gold letters on the cover, was
presented to her, and at her request all pre-
sent wrote their names and sentiments
suitable to the occasion therein. Refresh-
ments with lemonade was then served,
after which a spiritual feast was indulged
in
	By the unanimus vote of the assembly,
our venerable and beloved president, Zina
D. H. Young, was elected chairman and
after singing and prayer President Young
made a few remarks and called upon others
to speak also, prominent among whom was
B. W. Smith, Helen Mar Whitney, Ellen
C. Clawson, Camilla Cobb, Sarah A.
Reece and indeed all present responded to
the call, even Sister Alder’s little nine year
old daughter May. Sister Phelps spoke
beautifully in tongues which was interpret-
ed by Sister Zina Young and enjoyed by
all.
	A very pleasing feature of the program
was the reading of some verses composed
by Sister Alder and suggested by President
Young’s remarks at one of the Sisters Con-
ferences viz. that we should take our bur-
dens to the Lord and leave them there.
The remarks of the speakers all tended to
show how necessary trials are to purify and
perfect us. As Paul of old says, “They
will work out for us a far more exceeding
and eternal weight of glory."
	President Young then laid her hands
upon Sister Alder and gave her a prophetic
blessing, which we all endorsed by a hearty
Amen. Benidection was pronounced by
Sister Rachel Grant.
	Mrs. George D. Alder Jun. rendered
some beautiful pieces on the piano while
social chat was again general for a short
time, when we bade adieu to our hostess
and family about 10 o’clock, all feeling
blest and comforted, at least this was the
experience of the writer.
				JULIA CRUSE HOWE.


WEIGH not so much what men assert, as
what they prove remembering that truth
is simple and naked, and needs not inven-
tion to apparel her comeliness.—Sir P. Sid-
ney.
	IAN MACLAREN sails for America on
September 16th. Dr. Robertson Nicoll ac-
companied by Mr. and Mrs. Barrie, will
also arrive in this country about the end of
September.—The Bookman.
	THE QUEEN OF DENMARK, who al-
though she is seventy-eight years of age, is
still pretty and retains her vivacity and
charm, declares that the only way she
keeps young is by keeping young people
about her. She always has a house-full of
them, and likes nothing better than to be
surrounded by her grandchildren and their
friends. She affirms that she is aunt to all
of Europe, to which she is not grand-
mother.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparei[-]
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

		SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
ABRAHAM HOAGLAND CANNON.

	IT is quite impossible for one who knew
and loved Brother Abraham to write any-
thing good enough to satisfy one’s self, and
yet one is unwilling to be silent and not
offer a tribute to his memory. He was in-
deed one of “nature’s noblemen”, liberally
endowed with lofty characteristics; not only
those which entitled him to foremost places
among his fellowmen and his brethren in
the Church, but the finer qualities of the
heart which endeared him to all those who
love superior virtues, purity of life, refine-
ment and heavenly charity. “None knew
him but to love him” may truthfully be
said of Brother Abraham.
	So much has already been said by the
very ablest editors and writers, so many
tender and beautiful tributes paid to his
life and character, that one approaches the
subject with great diffidence; and yet the
writer feels in her inmost heart, to cast in
her offering among the many who admired
and felt an exceptional friendship for the
deceased, cut off in the midst of his great
usefulness, when every prospect of future
promise was at its highest and brightest. It
was said in days of old,
	“Whom the gods love die young.”
And surely our Heavenly Father Himself
loved such a one as Elder Cannon; and cer-
tainly His blessing was upon him, for in all he
did and in all that transpired with him he
seemed highly favored and blest of the
Lord. Looking back upon his course from
his boyhood until the time when his spirit
took its departure from mortality, one must
acknowledge his remarkable personality,
which attracted all who came into his
presence. Very few men possess this
personal attraction in as great a degree as
did Brother Abraham. His simplicity of
manner and of language were among his
pleasing traits. He was eloquent in his
public speaking, in plain simple language,
no ostentation, no show of oratory, but
powerfully impressive, straight-forward and
clear in all his sermons and addresses. He
had an intuitive understanding of people,
and therefore knew how to deal tactfully
with individual peculiarities, and eccentri-
cities of men and women with whom he
had business relations, or even casual ac-
quaintance.
	Brother Cannon was more than courteous,
he was naturally an exceedingly gracious
gentleman; beloved by men and women
everywhere, in all places where he had
traveled either on business, or as a mission-

[Column 2]
ary. The people and the Latter-day Saints
who knew him most intimately, and real-
zed his arduous labors and the heavy
burdens and responsibilities that rested up-
on him, had no thought of his dying; it
seemed remote from the minds of all. To
be sure he was sometimes warned that he
was doing too much, but still there seemed
more and more given him to do, and he
was ever and always willing. He possessed
business capacity in a very unusual degree,
and all public and private interests pros-
pered in his hands by means of his thrift,
diligence and successful management. But
say what we will, extol him as we may, he
has gone, and we shall see him no more in
this life. The young Elders in Israel
would do well to follow in his footsteps, to
emulate his example, to be as true, as
honest, as faithful and as obedient to coun-
sel and to the laws of God, as was this
young and valiant hero, in the battle of
life. His name and fame will live forever
in the hearts of this people, and his child-
ren have a heritage far more precious than
gold, or silver, or precious gems, or houses,
or lands, or other worldly possessions; the
unsullied life of an Elder in Israel, an
Apostle of Christ, whose example he sought
to follow; verily, “A good name is better to
be chosen than great riches.”
	Abraham Hoagland Cannon was born
in Salt Lake City, March 12, 1859; his
parents were George Q. and Elizabeth
Hoagland Cannon. President Cannon was
away in the Eastern States upon a mission
at the time of his birth. In his boyhood he
had the best advantages of school educa-
tion the times afforded in the ward schools,
and afterwards at the Deseret University.
He was naturally studious, and made good
use of his opportunities.
	His first mission was to Europe, and he
labored first in the Nottingham Conference
in England, until he was assigned to the
Swiss and German mission, where he
labored assiduously and converted many to
the truth of the Gospel; he became quite
“proficient in the German language, and
wrote some of the hymns which the Ger-
man Saints now sing in their congregations.”
He returned home in June 1882. His
mother died while he was absent upon this
mission.
	“On the 9th of October 1892, Elder Can-
non was ordained one of the First Seven
Presidents of Seventies, and on October 6,
1889, he was sustained at the General Con-
ference of the Church as one of the Twelve
Apostles. From that time he has been the
jnnior member of the Council of Apostles.”
	In all the duties pertaining to his calling and
ministry in the Church, he was scrupulously
exact and faithful; his fidelity and integrity
to the truth and in every relation of life,
are unquestioned and unquestionable. The
persecution borne by the Saints at the time
of the enforcement of the Edmund’s law,
he endured without a murmur; and his
heroic conduct on the occasion of his sen-
tence, and the explanation made to the
Judge, as published in the Deseret News,
from which we have copied it here, fully
illustrates his views, and is abundant testi-
mony of the sincerity of his sublime faith
in the principle of the Gospel for which he
was to suffer imprisonment.
	“As illustrative of his zeal and fidelity to
the Gospel may be cited an incident in
connection with the imprisonment referred
to, when he gave expression to views
characteristic of his whole life in its highest

[Column 3]
integrity to his convictions of right. He
had entered into the order of plural mar-
riage, and on March 17, 1886, being at that
time twenty-six years of age, he was sen-
tenced by Judge Zane to a term of six
months in the penitentiary for his obser-
vance of that law of God. When called to
receive the judgment of the court he said:”
	“I would like to state, your honor, that I have
always endeavored to keep the laws of the United
States, because I have been taught by my parents
that the Constitution was a sacred instrument.
That I have failed in this respect, and now stand
before you convicted of the crime of unlawful co-
habitation, is due to the fact that I acknowledge
a higher law than that of man, which is the law
of God; and that law being a part of my religion,
sir, I have attempted to obey it. When I em-
braced this religion, I promised to place all that I
had, even to life itself, upon the altar, and I ex-
pect to abide by that covenant which I made
and, sir, I hope the day will never come when I
must sacrifice principle, even to procure life or
liberty. Honor, sir, to me, is higher than any-
thing else upon the earth; and my religion is
dearer to me than anything else that I have yet
seen. I am prepared, sir, for the judgment of
the court.”
	Brother Cannon’s illness and death have
cast a gloom over the community, and it
will be some time before his friends (even
outside the family) recover from the shock;
but the Saints know what it is to bow to
the Providence of God in the greatest sor-
row, and acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in the death however sudden, of their
beloved ones, though taken as Brother
Abraham was in the prime of life, with his
bright and spotless armor on, full of zeal,
of courage, and of hope. And though we
mourn his absence and deeply feel his loss, 
yet we are comforted for as Paul says,
	“But I would not have you to be ignorant,
brethren, concerning them which are asleep,
that ye sorrow not as others thvt have no hope.”
	Apostle Abraham H. Cannon departed
this life, at his home in Cannon Ward, Salt
Lake City, July 19, 1896, at fifteen minutes
after four o’clock in the morning of the
Sabbath day. His funeral services were
held in the large Tabernacle in this City on
the following Sunday, July 26. The dec-
orations at the Tabernacle were very
elaborate and elegant. White crepe draped
tastefully and looped with cord and tassel
in the most graceful way on the stands
and the pillars near, as well as the great
organ. Ornamental flowers and shrubs
adorned the stands and platform in all the
available places. Tributes of flowers in
artistic designs came from many of the
relatives and friends. Several of the floral
pieces were surmounted with white doves
emblematic of the purity of the life of the
deceased. The effect of the whole was
loveliness itself, and surpassed anything
ever before attempted in the building, at
any time.
	The seating arrangements were as perfect
as possible; officers and employees of com-
panies and organizations of which Brother
Cannon was a member, were seated at the
right of the center aisle; the family and re-
latives with President George Q. Cannon,
(the father) at the head in the seats at the
left of the center aisle. There was no dis-
play of mourning apparel by any of the
family, and there was no need, for their
grief was too intense for outward sem-
blance.
	In the stand of the First Presidency were
Presidents Wilford Woodruff and Joseph
F. Smith, Patriarch John Smith, and of the
Apostles, President Lorenzo Snow, Elders


[Column 1]
F. D. Richards and H. J. Grant. The
next stand was occupied by Elders Brigham
Young, J. H. Smith, F. M. Lyman, Geo.
Teasdale, J. W. Taylor and M. W. Mer-
rill of the Quorum of the Apostles and
Elder Moses Thatcher who came in later,
and Elder Jos. E. Taylor and C. W. Pen-
rose of the Salt Lake Stake Presidency.
On the third stand were the Presiding
Council of Seventies and of High Priests
Quorums, and on the fourth, the Presid-
ing Bishopric and others.
	The casket was placed in the center of
the front platform between the floral em-
blems, and on the elegant white casket
were some of the most beautiful pale and
delicately arranged flowers. And one
could not help realizing these touching
lines of the poet,
	“AFTER the burden snd heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way,
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
	The funeral was conducted under the
auspices of the quorum of the Twelve
Apostles, President Lorenzo Snow presid-
ing. Elder H. J. Grant announced the
opening hymn (reading the first verse,)
“The Resurrection Day.” A most sublime
prayer was offered by Elder F. D. Richards.
Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang the well
know soprano solo from the Messiah,
“I know that my Redeemer liveth. ”
	President Lorenzo Snow was the first
speaker, and he paid a glowing tribute to
the departed Apostle.
	The venerable President of the Church,
Wilford Woodruff, who spoke next, opened
his discourse with the words “Blessed are
the dead which die in the Lord from hence-
forth; yea, saith the Spirit, that they may
rest from their labors, and their works do
follow them.” His voice was clear and
yet one detected the tone of inward grief in
the intonation. He spoke reverently and
tenderly of the father, President George Q.
Cannon, and affectionately of the wives and
children and of the principle through and
by which he had received them, and ex-
horted them to be faithful and resigned,
and closed his remarks after occupying
about fifteen minutes in speaking sympa-
thetically and blessing them all and said:
“I hope and trust we may all pursue that
course that we may be justified and prepared
to pass to the other side of the vail as he
has done; God grant it for Christ’s sake,
Amen.”
	Brother R. C. Easton the famous tenor,
then sang to the organ accompaniment by
Prof. Daynes, that favorite invocation by
our beloved sister and poet, Eliza R. Snow,
“O my Father.”
	President Jos. F. Smith though deeply
affected delivered an eloquent discourse
enumerating the many arduous labors,
and characteristic virtues of the deceased,
and appealed to the congregation to follow
his righteous example and labor as diligent-
ly in the cause of Christ as he had done.
He read a portion of a Revelation from the
Doctrine and Covenants given through
Joseph Smith, the prophet, to the people of
the world in this dispensation, which com-
mences with, 
	“Behold mine house is a house of order, saith
the Lord God, and not a house of confusion.”
“Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord,
that is not made in my name!” “Or will I re-
ceive at your hands that which I have not ap-
pointed!”

[Column 2]
	After President Smith finished his ser-
mon which occupied the remainder of the
afternoon, Horace Ensign and the choir
sang the Anthem.
		“When the soul is sad and weary,
		Seek relief in prayer.”
	The funeral procession was in charge of
a special Committee, General R. W. Young
being Marshal. Held’s band in neat uni-
forms were at the head of the column, and
carriages containing the Authorities of the 
Church, including Presidents Woodruff
and Smith and the Apostles, first, then the 
hearse; next the families; a beautiful sight
were the children in the large Drag, Utah,
all in white;—the procession was over a
mile in length and the streets were lined on
both sides the entire distance to the grave-
yard with people. The cemetery was also
packed with those who were anxious to
show their love and respect for one so high-
ly esteemed. When the casket had been
lowered, a quartette led by H. G. Whitney
sang
		“Rest, rest for the weary soul.”
	Elder F. M. Lyman offered the dedi-
catory prayer—and the grave of the depart-
ed was covered and literally embowered in
flowers. Elder H. J. Grant extended the
thanks of the family to all who had assisted
in their hour of sorrowing bereavement.
	May the consolation of the Holy Spirit be
and abide with those who mourn, and
above all may they seek to reconcile them-
selves to the rulings of an All Wise Provi-
dence, and strive to do the work he has left
unfinished inasmuch as it is possible, rely-
ing upon Him who sees even the sparrows
fall, and who has promised never to leave
or forsake those who put their trust in Him.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IT is most earnestly requested by the
President of the Relief Society, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, that each Stake of Zion or-
ganized, should send forthwith a complete
list of the Stake officers of said Society, and
the name of every President and Secretary
in the Stake with the name of the Ward
where such officers have charge of Society, and
the Post Office address of each, so that
there may be a complete list for reference
published. It is now about six months
since this request was first made, and only
twenty have reported. Stake Secretaries
who have not sent will please take notice,
and send in a complete list according to
these directions immediately. Address the
Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Constitution
Building, Salt Lake City.
	OUR readers and patrons will please take
notice that classes in obstetrics will com-
mence in October, and in this connection
we wish to say a few words in favor of this
study and training. The sisters whose
advertisements appear in our columns, are
reliable women, and proficient in the medi-
cal profession. They are women of ability
and well known in the community and
throughout the State. There is great
need of competent help in the outside
settlements, and women adapted to this
line of work should prepare themselves
thoroughly before undertaking to practice;
and there is now no excuse for ignorance
in this respect. Every facility possible is
available, and women who study and quali-
fy themselves for this profession are pub-
lic benefactors to mankind.

[Column 2]
	Romania B. Pratt, M. D., was the first
woman from Utah to graduate in medicine
and surgery. She studied in the Woman’s
Medical College in Philadelphia, and re-
ceived her Diploma in 1877. She practised
one summer in the New England Woman’s
Hospital, and made herself familiar with
the Elmira Water Cure establishment in
New York, as well as others in different
places. Her success has proven her careful
and efficient. Dr. Pratt also took special
courses in the eye and ear under some of
the best practitioners in New York City.
Dr. Pratt was seven years resident physi-
cian in the Deseret Hospital, and her stand-
ing is well known to the Medical Board of
Salt Lake.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp stands high in her
profession; she graduated in the Woman’s
Medical College in Philadelphia, in 1879,
and has met with excellent success in the
profession she has chosen for her life work.
She is without doubt specially well
adapted to give instruction, as all her
students testify to her aptitude in this
particular. She is a woman of great
strength of character and splendid physique,
well calculated to inspire confidence in
her patients and in those who study in her
classes. She has traveled extensively in
Utah and adjacent states and territories,
giving lectures and teaching classes. She
has had a wide range of experience in this
way which is helpful in her work to those
who come for instruction.
	IN a letter just received from Miss Susan
B. Anthony, President of the National
Suffrage Association, she expresses great
anxiety in reference to the vote of the wo-
men of Utah at this first election.
She feels that the course taken here is
going to have a great bearing upon the
question in other States and as a whole.
Her advice is precisely in accordance with
that we shall give wherever and whenever
we have occasion or opportunity to speak
upon this question. Be sure whatever we
do will help or hinder the cause elsewhere;
if the women of this State are wise discreet,
judicious and conservative, if they stand for
the best men and women in the party to
which they give their preference, and are
true to their honest convictions, then their
influence will be powerful for good. But
every woman of proper age who is entitled
to vote, should cast her vote at the coming
election, and help in this critical time to
assist in maintaining the principles she
believes conscientiously to be for the best
good of the country.


IN THE DEAR DEFUNCT DESERET
HOSPITAL.

    IT was a  very  unpretentious  old  adobe
building, but it was there my life was saved
on March 18th, 1891.
    Through the kindness of the Gunnison
R. S., to whose credit some donations in
years past had been placed, I was sent
there for treatment.
	Drs. J. M. Benedict  and S. B. Young
performed an operation which relieved me
of two large ovarian tumors,  weighing 35
pounds; and so skillfully did they do their
work that I not only did not feel the oper-
ation in the least, but in ten days I was up
and improved right along; and through the
excellent nursing and diet I received there,
in 25 days after the operation I was able to


walk out of that, to me, so memorable
place.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt was resident phy-
sician at this time and was very able and
kind to the sick. The nurses and attend-
ants were both cheerful and helpful. I
remember there was a young brother there
his name was George Blanton or Blan-
thorne. He would sing for and pray with
the sick, as the case might be, and was of-
ten called to the bedside of the sick to
administer to them.
	It is to be hoped that in some future day
we will have another Deseret Hospital, or
some such institution where the same spirit
reigns, established again.
	And I feel that I must give Drs. Bene-
dict and Young, this all too tardy acknow-
ledgement. They knew, for I had told
them, that I had nothing to pay them with.
But that made no difference to those two
noble men. They treated me with as much
delicacy and consideration as if they had
been prepaid a royal sum.
	The hand of Dr. Benedict may tremble
now—but that same trembling hand has
done much to bless the poor as well as
those who were able to pay.
	Once of my boys was struck in the
face by a horse, receiving a large ugly
wound. He was taken in the patrol
wagon to one of the large hospitals in Salt
Lake City. He lay there for many hours
without anything being done for him, as
they did not know who was going to pay
for it. After he regained consciousness he
called for Dr. Benedict, who took his case
in hand and charged nothing. The same
boy was stricken down with typhoid fever,
and the same kind Dr. Benedict went every
day in his own conveyance to 12th East,
until he (to use the Dr’s. term) “pulled
him through. ” But he charged nothing
for it.
	I have heard the names of Drs. Bene-
dict and Young mentioned in connection
with such other deeds of unselfishness and
benevolence, which none but God can fit-
tingly reward. And they know that such
reward is sure.
	And our sweet gentle Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
I shall never forget her kindness to me in
my distress. To those who may be afflict-
ed as I was, let me say, do not hesitate to
call in surgical help. For although we
have no Deseret Hospital, and we may
have very few Benedicts and Youngs
yet we have able and efficient physicians in
all our cities and towns, who are able if
called upon in time, to save a life, which
in my case was very near too late.
			THOMINE EINARSON.
Gunnison, July 27, 1896.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


<div>[Column 1]</div>LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Synopsis of the Minutes of the meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Satur-
day, May 15, 1896, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Our God we
raise to Thee’’, prayer by Sister M. O.
Brown, singing, “Welcome best of all
good meetings’’, Minutes of the previous
meeting read and approved. President
Horne addressed the sisters a short time;
spoke of the power of the adversary, but
felt we must be humble and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all His dealings
with His people; called upon Sister Alder
to give a description of her visit with the
Tabernacle choir to San Francisco. The
secretary of the Primary Association of the

[Column 2]
15th Ward then read her minutes. Sister
Alder told of her anxiety to go to Cali-
fornia as she had never visited there and
her parents at one time resided in San
Francisco. When the company pulled out
of the depot they were a happy crowd, and
felt the Spirit of the Lord was with them.
The reception of the choir at Oakland at
the first concert when they sang the
Hallelujah Chorus, was an ovation, the
audience rose to their feet. It certainly
seemed to be appreciated there more than
here at home; thought the prayers of those
at home were being answered. Refered to
the sermon of Apostle Heber J. Grant,
had never heard anything like it—it was
grand; some of the choir had remarked
that if no one in San Francisco was con-
verted, that they themselves were, and
they wanted on their return home to live
their religion. The speaker refered to the
great good the missionaries there were
doing; urged the sisters never to forget that
the Gospel is true.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of trusting
and sustaining our leaders; refered to the
little babe whose mother had died on the
Islands and who had been brought home
by the returning missionaries; felt that
there was a great destiny for that child.
She also exhorted the sisters to greater
diligence, and urged them to take more
interest in Temple work, and to keep the
Sabbath day holy; asked the Lord to bless
us all. Sister Alder added a few words
about the sisters in California who were
desirous of having an organization of the
Relief Society.
	Counselor Stevenson made a few re-
marks and spoke of her trip to Europe
several yeare ago, and of the
treatment she received from the pilot’s
wife when she found out that she was a
Mormon; remarked there was great need of
missionary work here at home, she had
given up every thing for her religion; felt
the need of our prayers for our young mis-
sionaries. Realized that God had changed
the hearts of the people of the world to-
wards us; knew that trials were to make
us humble, fasting and prayer would bring
a blessing; urged all to be faithful.
	Some other sisters in the congregation
bore excellent testimonies. The sisters
joined in singing “The Spirit of God” etc.
Sister Elizabeth Paul bore testimony that
while the hymn was being sung she felt
the influence of the Holy Spirit powerfully,
and a voice spoke to her, and she bore a
strong testimony of the truth of the Gospel.
Another sister bore testimony of the Word
of Wisdom, and Sister M. J. Smallie also
testified of the truth and refered to her
early experiences in the Church in Scot-
land. Related a dream she had about
a young man who had died and who ap-
peared to her and wanted to be officiated
for in the Temple; felt she wanted to
acknowledge God’s blessings to her.
	Presldent Horne closed with a few words
of blessing, Singing Doxology, prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
				ZINA HYDE, Sec.

	SYNOPSIS of Minutes of Semi-Monthly
Meeting held Saturday, June 23, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Opened
by singing "There may all the faithful be”
prayer by Counselor E. Webb, singing "O
awake my slumbering minstrel,” Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
President Horne spoke of the Primary Con[-]

[Column 3]
ference convening that day, and being the
cause of the secretary’s absence; loved to
listen to the children, thought it very im-
portant that mothers should see that the
children attended the Primary, for if they
were not properly taught parents would be
under condemnation. Mothers should
consider this training of the children their
chief duty, sow good seed in their young
minds, for what they learned in childhood
would never be forgotten; for herself she
felt an interest in every thing that tended
to elevate and bless woman and humanity.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball thought the
time was precious. President Brigham
Young said he always felt a timidity in
arising to his feet to speak, he thought
why this was so, was that he saw a gleam
of the Deity in the eye of each one before
him. Heber C. Kimball always spoke on
the subject most on his mind, and in this
respect she was like him; Genealogy was
uppermost on her mind, she felt to speak
upon that, and to urge the necessity of
that work; made some excellent sugges-
tions. Sister Elmina S. Taylor, spoke of
her recent visit to the Conference at Tooele;
while there the Bishop said he thought
there was nothing that went ahead of the
Relief Society, and she then dwelt upon the
great good that had been accomplished
through that organization; thought we
should not be chary of kind words and little
kind deeds, they cost so little, but mean so
much; every heart knows its own sorrow,
and God knows us so well that He gave us
strength to bear the burdens put upon us.
Exhorted the sisters to greater faithfulness
and diligence. A sister related how her
grandson had been healed by the prayers
offered in that place at a previous meeting;
felt to thank God for His goodness. Sister
Rawlings, Aird, Barrow and other sisters
bore precious testimonies and gave wise
counsel. Counselor E. J. Stevenson spoke
of her recent visit to Sanpete Stake in
company with Sister Zina D. H. Young,
and the grand time they had, how the
Spirit of the Lord was poured out in rich
abundance. Sister Mary Ann Hyde
though eighty years of age, presided at the
Conference with the dignity of a queen.
Sister Hyde’s 80th birthday was publicly
celebrated by the people in a grand feast of
both temporal and spiritual things. She
was presented with a very handsome gold
watch and chain, as a token of their love and
respect for her, and in appreciation of her
labors in that County. Sister Stevenson
spoke feelingly and gratefully of the great
kindness shown them by Presidents Peter-
son, Mc’Allister and Maiben; these brethren
did everything in their power to make the
Conference a success and to help the sisters;
said it was an occasion long to be remem-
bered.
	Sisters Brown and Nunn, also Sister
Julia C. Howe spoke beautifully of the
work and urged redoubled efforts on behalf
of the children of Zion; were anxious we
should progress and prove faithful. Sisters
Hannah Conklin and Mary Sawyer Snow
bore their testimony of the Gospel and
testified to the goodness of God to them.
President Horne in a few appropriate
remarks closed the meeting and gave
notice of the Quarterly Conference of the
sisters, on June 27, which would be ob-
served as a memorial day in remembrance of
the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patri-
arch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Singing
“The time is far spent”, benediction by
Lydia D. Alder.		Zina Hyde, Sec.


SYNOPSIS of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
Saturday, July 11, 1896, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing “Where the
voice of friendship’s heard” prayer by Julia
C. Howe, singing “Welcome” etc. Min-
utes of previous meeting read and accepted.
Sister Stevenson regretted the absence of
the beloved President and spoke encourag-
ingly to those present.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of her
recent visit to Nephi, where she attended
the Sisters Conference, and mentioned the
arrival of Sister Horne; made excellent
suggestions to the sisters. Singing “We
thank Thee O God.”
	Counselor E. Webb felt this was a time
when we should feel very humble and live
near the Lord and put our trust in God
continually. Sister Rawlings made a few
appropriate remarks, expressing her faith
and joy in the Gospel.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox and Sister M.
Francis, Sister Plant, Sister Waterfall and
Sister Cornell, each bore testimony to the
truth and related some experiences; touched
upon many good subjects calculated to edify
and stimulate to good works. Sister Lucy
B. Young testified to answers to prayers,
felt to prophesy of Sister Zina’s great work
when she was called to preside over the
Relief Society. She also spoke in the gift
of tongues and interpreted it herself.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder exhorted those
who were in great sorrow to cast their bur-
dens upon the Lord, it was His way of
bringing them to Him. Felt the time
would soon come when we should know
why these things were; alluded to many
prophecies that had been made by Brigham
Young which were being fulfilled now
	President Horne explained why she was
late, she was detained by sickness; alluded
to some startling prophecies by Apostle
Parley P. Pratt in regard to Jackson
County; also spoke very impressively upon
charity, and said Satan had no power over
our thoughts but he had over our words;
a fault-finding spirit was not a happy one.
Mentioned the Relief Society excursion to
Saltair and hoped it would be a success.
Prayed that the Spirit of the Gospel might
be and abide with us. Singing Doxology, 
benediction by Counselor Clara Cannon.
				ZINA Y. HYDE Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.		23


R. S. REPORT.
		BINGHAM STAKE.
Dear Sister:
	THINKING a sketch of our late Conference
held at Iona, June 13, 1896, might be in-
teresting, we thought we would write a 
few lines for we felt highly honored by
having present with us Apostle F. D. 
Richards and Sister Zina D. H. Young,
and also Sister J. S. Richards.
	After going through with the general 
exercises President E. J. Bennett said she
was more than pleased in having present
with us one of the Apostles and our be-
loved sisters, and also Brother Stevens, and 
we would do away with our verbal reports;
stated that the Stake officers of the Relief
Society had just visited nearly every Society
in this Stake and found them in a prosper-
ous condition.
	President Zina D. H. Young instructed
mothers to encourage the reading of the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants in their
families, spoke some on the organization of 
the Relief Society and said we should learn
to love one another. Referred to the great


work that was being done in the Temple,
and also the great responsibility resting
upon us in doing the work for our dead;
spoke of the great work the Society was
doing, urged the sisters to be earnest in
prayer; Sister Young had heard the Prophet
Joseph say if we would be diligent in
prayer we would never lose the faith.
Gave many good instructions, and among
others did not forget the storing of grain.
Sister Monch of Ogden, then spoke a short
time to the sisters and gave many good
instructions.
	Sister Jane S. Richards then spoke to
the sisters, compared the great blessings
we have to day with the hardships in the
early days of the Church, and said in look-
ing upon the intelligent faces before her
and the bright prospects we have in the
future, she felt encouraged; urged us to
exercise a spirit of love and charity
especially to the sick and poor. Referred
to many of her experiences in the church.
Felt to desire that we might have a house
built and dedicated to the Lord. Apostle
Richards said these Societies were of great
interest to him, and he said how necessary
it was that man and woman should work
constantly together and that woman was to
partake of the blessings conferred upon
man; gave much encouragement and good
advice to all present, Brother Stevens
spoke of the great success the sisters had
made in storing grain, and also of the time
that we might need it.
	President Ricks of the Bannock Stake
and President Steel of Bingham Stake,
and Patriarch Hinckley and President
Bennett gave some very timely counsel and
encouraged the sisters in the Relief Society
work. 		E. J. BENNETT, Secretary


IN MEMORIAM.
		SUSANNAH MORTENSEN.
	RESOLUTIONS of Respect, by the officers and
members of the W. H. P. R. class of Brigham
City, to the memory of our departed sister,
Susannah Mortensen, who died January 29, 1896,
at the age of 39 years.
	Whereas, The hand of the Almighty has seen fit
to take to Himself our beloved sister and class-
mate, Susannah Mortensen, who was always
faithful in the cause of right, full of charity
and humility and long suffering. Therefore be
it
	Resolved, That we deeply mourn the loss of a
sincere worker, and tender our sympathies to the
children and relatives of the deceased.
	Resolved, That in our natural sorrow for the
loss of a devoted laborer, we find consolation in
the knowledge that it is well with her for whom
we mourn. Indeed though we miss her we can
but say—she was prepared to enter the bright
Celestial Shore.
	Resolved, That her loss is not only felt by the
W. H. P. R. class, but also the Relief Society,
Sunday School, Primary and all the associations
with which she was connected.

She is not dead—she dwells on that bright shore
	where angels tread
That bear our best loved things away, and then
	we call them dead.

	Resolved that these resolutions be published
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and also recorded in
the records of the W. H. P. R. Association, and
that one copy be tendered to her children.
	Maggie Rohwer, Mary Nelson, Melina Peters,
Emeline Watkins, Committee.

		BIOGRAPHY OF EMMA BURROWS.
	SISTER EMMA BURROWS was born Dec. 10,
1840, in Granthane, Lincolnshire, England. Her
father’s name was James Roberts and her
mother’s name was Abagal Leeson. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in Granthane. She was married to
Joseph Burrows on May 14, 1857, she emigrated to
Utah, May 6, 1863, arrived in Salt Lake City Oct.
3, 1863. She removed to Ogden Valley in 1865 
taking up her labor in the Relief Society as
teacher until 1876, when she was sustained as
Secretary, which place she occupied until her
death.
	She succeeded Sister Moselle Hall as Presi-
dent of the Young Ladies Association in 1885,
which position she also occupied until her death.
	She was the mother of nine children, six are
left to mourn her loss. She also raised an infant
of F. A. Hammond’s which was left without a
mother.
	She died May 4, 1896, at Huntsville Utah.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
Passed by the Y. L. M. I. Association. Huntsville
			May 30, 1896- 
	WHEREAS, The Omnipotent Ruler of the uni-
verse has, in His infinite wisdom, called from us
our useful and much esteemed Sister Emma
Burrows, and
	WHEREAS, Her position as President of the Y.
L. M. I. A. held during so many years, makes it
fitting for us to record our appreciation of her
untiring efforts devoted to our welfare, therefore
be it
	RESOLVED, That the vacancy in this Society,
caused by her sudden departure, will be deeply
realized by all members of the Association, and
will prove a grevious loss to our organization as
well as to the ward in which she has proven her-
self a useful and much appreciated leader.
	RESOLVED, That with deep sympathy with the
bereaved family and friends of the deceased, we
express an earnest hope that even under such
trying circumstances they will be comforted and
acknowledge the hand of God in their bereave-
ment. 
	RESOLVFD, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, one sent to the
members of the family, and that they be recorded
in the records of the Association.

Sister Emma true and faithful,
	Thou hast left us gone before.
Although thou’rt numbered with the faithful,
	Thy works shall live for evermore.
					MARA WANGAGARD.

	DIED at her home in Manti, April 22, 1896,
Sister Ann Cook Parsons. Sister Parsons was
born June 1, I823, at Stanford Bridge, Shrop-
shire, England. She was married to Henry
Parsons May 3, 1849, received the Gospel in 1850.
Emigrated to America in 1853, arrived at New
Orleans after a voyage of six weeks, ascended
the Mississippi to Koekuk intending to
continue their journey to Zion, but Sister Parsons
was attacked by rheumatism which so far dis-
abled her that she was unable to travel, conse-
quently she and her husband located at Koekuk,
where they remained until the Spring of 1862,
when they once more took up their line of march
toward the setting sun, traveling with an ox
team and making the entire trip from Koekuk to
Manti in thirteen weeks.
	Sister Parsons was the mother of ten children,
only one of whom survives her, seven having
died in infancy. Her only son was killed some
years ago by a fall from his horse, and on the
death of her eldest daughter some eleven years
ago who left a large family, she adopted the
baby upon whom she bestowed a mother’s teuder
care up to the time of her decease.
	Sister Parsons was a woman of sterling integ-
rity and possessed a deep and abiding faith in the
Gospel for which she had left home and kind-
red.
	She was also generous and benevolent in dispo-
sition, and was ever ready to respond to every
call for means to aid in the spread of the Gos-
pel. She also donated liberally to the Temple
and the Relief Society of which she was a faithful
and efficient teacher for many years.
	In her death the poor and unfortunate have
lost a liberal and sympathetic friend, her hus-
band a faithful and self-sacrificing wife, and her
surviving daughter, and her motherless grand-
children a wise and loving counselor. She was
unassuming and unostentatious in manner and
disposition, fully carrying out the scriptural injunc-
tion‘‘Let not thy right hand know what thy left 
hand doeth.”
During the later years of her life she was a
great sufferer from asthma, although the imme-
diate cause of her death was heart failure.
	She has gone to receive her reward for her
faithfulness in a long and well spent life,
chastened by affliction and glorified by kindly
deeds. Of her it can truthfully be said “Her
works do follow her.”,
May she rest in peace. 		A. L. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1] 
WOMAN’S WORK AND WOMAN’S 
ENDEAVOR. 

Editor Woman's Journal:
	IT may be of interest to your readers to
know that the Committee of the “Inter-
national Congress for Woman’s Work and
Woman’s Endeavor”—to be heid in Berlin,
has received notice of adherence from
association in America, France, England,
Belgium, Holland, Norway, Sweden, Rus-
sia, Italy, Switzerland and Poland.
Delegates are expected to be present from
all these countries, and the discussion of
economic, sociological and educational
questions will doubtless be of interest to all
present. Certificates of participation will
be at the rate of five marks ($1.19), and
are obtainable from the secretary, Frau
Lena Morgenstern, or from Frau Minna
Cauer, editress of “Die Frauenbewegung"
—from which journal I glean this infor-
mation.
	The International Congress of Women
held in Paris in May, developed somewhat
into a socialistic Congress, owing, per-
chane, to the fact that the French people
do not as yet realize that there is great
earnestness of purpose in the work of the
woman of the present day. Be her api-
tude economics, literature, science, medi-
cine or politics, the woman of the period
intends to hold her own—even if the stu-
dent of the Latin Quarter objects—and to
present her subject with open doors, so that
there will be free discussion.
	This year the German women take the
lead in the discussion of subjects of inter-
national interest; next year there is to be a
Congress in Belgium. The gradual pro-
gress in parliamentary ruling, and in the
elevated tone of the papers presented at our
own National Council of Women, at our
own Federation of Women’s Clubs, all in-
dicate that the more conservative element
dominates, and that there is gain in the
ranks of woman workers outside of their
own Lares and Penates.
	At the meeting of the League of the
International Press Clubs, first held in
Buffalo, two members of the Woman’s
National Press Association became active
workers in that body—Mrs. E. S. Crom-
well being made one of the Vice-Presidents,
and Mrs. O’Donoghue being placed on the
Executive Committee. Again your cor-
respondent has the honor of being a mem-
ber of the International Committee for the
“Internationaler Congress fur Frauenwerke
and Frauenbestrebungen in Berlin” above
referred to, and as a delegate is to present a
paper on “Woman’s progress in America”
(being written in German, its title is “Die
Frauenbewegungen in den Vereinigten-
Staaten”) before the body in September.
	The able paper of Mrs. Henrotin, at the
biennial meeting of the Federation—held in
Louisville—has awakened interest wher-
ever and whenever read, and its stirring
words in regard to “woman’s work for
humanity”, will long re-echo in the minds
of those who listened to her, and who long
since recognized her work and that of Mrs.
Palmer in Chicago.
	Two new books have greatly interested
me; the one entitled “Die hohere Frauen-
bildung in Grossbritannien,” by Karl
Heinrich Schaible, presents an historical
record of woman’s achievements in Great
Britain; the other, “Die Sociale Lage der
Frau”, by E. Gnauck-Kuhue, plainly
indicates how much woman has had to con-

[Column 2]
tend with in endeavoring to hold her own
as regards social, economic and industrial
conditions.
	The “Vita Femminile”, published since
July 1, 1895, in Rome, Italy, deals almost
entirely with the woman question in Italy.
it is edited by Prof. Guiseppe D’Aguanno
and others. While first issued quarterly
it now appears monthly, and its latest
numbers indicate that woman not only has
university privileges—a fact quite well
known—but that she is acquiring recog-
nized positions in post, telegraph and
telephone offices, which must seem rather a
novelty out of record with the dolce far-
niente life of the majority of women of
Southern climes.
	FRANCES GRAHAM FRENCH.
Washington, D. C. July 10, 1896. Ex.


UTAH SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND.

	IN September next there will be opened
in Ogden, in conection with the State
School for the Deaf and Dumb, the State
School for the Blind.
	This school will be free to all children
whose sight is too defective to allow of suc-
cessful work in public schools. That the
management of the school may know at an
early date how many children of this class
are likely to attend, it is important that all
parents or guardians of such children com-
municate at once with the Superintendent
who will furnish application blanks, and
any other information needed.
	Persons knowing of blind (or deaf-mute)
children will confer a favor by sending
their addresses to Frank W. Metcalf,
Superintendent, Salt Lake City Utah.
	The State School for the Blind and the
State School for the Deaf and Dumb, have
been amply provided for. The Genera
Government gave each of them 100,000
acres of land. This land when sold will
provide for them a permanent endowment.
The State has given these schools the
buildings and grounds formerly occupied
by the Reform School. [The Reform
School is being moved to a new location.]
These buildings occupy a commanding and
healthful site in the city of Ogden. They
are now being altered and refitted to accom-
modate the needs of the state schools above
mentioned. Teachers of special experience
in this work have been engaged for all
departments. The course of study com-
prises a thorough common school course.
In the department for the deaf it fits pupils
entrance to the National (Gallandet) Col-
lege for the Deaf, Washington D. C. [Two
pupils of the school successfully passed the
college examination in June last.] Besides
the above a thorough course in trade
instruction is given, fitting the pupils on
completing the course to become at once
self-supporting and useful citizens.
	[NOTE.—The Utah School for the Deaf
and Dumb has won all first prizes for man-
ual training at the Territorial Fairs for the
past seven years.]
	Over fifty blind children of school age
were reported in 1890, and the number has
undoubtedly increased since.


THE first woman who has received the
permission of the Minister of Public In-
struction to attend lectures in the University
of Munich, is Miss Ethel Gertrude Skeate,
daughter of Professor Skeate, the eminent
philologist.


GREAT occasions do not make heroes nor
cowards; they simply unvail them to the
eyes of men.
	THE practice of economy is no disgrace.
it is better living on a little than outliving
a great deal.
	THERE is a pleasure in contemplating
good; there is a greater pleasure in receiv-
ing good, but the greatest pleasure is doing
good, which comprehends the rest.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
will commence her next class in OBSTETRICS
AND NURSING on Monday. October 12th,
1896, at her residence, 437 E. Second South Street,
Telephone 383. Special arrangements made when
counties send more than one person. The follow-
ing ladies from the doctor’s classes have passed
successful examinations before the State Medical
Board, and received certificates to practice: 
	Annie Calvin, Eden, Weber Co., Utah.
	E. A. Froever, Huntsville, Weber Co., Utah.
	Sarah H. Reed, Woodruff, Rich Co., Utah. 
	Fannie V. Schutt, Meadowville, Rich Co., Utah.
	Lucinda Patten, Payson, Utah Co., Utah. 
	Mary Hond, Benjamin, Utah Co., Utah.
	Annie Tillotson, Ogden City, Weber Co., Utah.
	Mary A. Turner, West Jordan, Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	Carrie Johnson, Union, Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	Annie Thurber, Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah.
	Mary Dewey, Deweyville, Box Elder Co., Utah.
	Minnie Baird, Layton, Davis Co., Utah.
	Sarah White, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Mary Edwards, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Millie Reynolds, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Carrie Anderson, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Mary Higgs, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Biddie Erickson, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Emily Lish, Rockland, Oneida Co., Idaho.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with			DR. PRATT,
		226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

LOW RATES TO THE EAST.
	Your attention is directed to the exceptionally
low rates in effect this coming season to nearly
every prominent point in the East.
	Never before has such an excellent opportunity
been afforded for a Summer Vacation Tour, or for
visiting friends in the East. We mention below a
few of the places to which greatly reduced rates
have been made. The UNION PACIFIC is the line
it that will give you the best service to any of these
points.
Chicago, Ill., July 7. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Buffalo, N. Y., July 7-11. Rate—One fare for the round trip
	plus $2.00.
Washington, D. C., July 7-13. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., July 16-19. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., July 21-24. Rate—One and one-third fare on
	certificate plan.
St. Louis, Mo., July 22. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., August 16-24. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Cleveland, Ohio, August 23-30. Rate—(Probably) one fare for
	the round trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 25-27. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
St. Paul, Min., September 1-4. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip (in some cases less).
	For full information as to dates of sale and limit of tickets,
time of trains, etc., call on
		CITY TICKET OFFICE 201 MAIN STREET.
D. E. BURLEY, G. A. P. D.			D. S. TAGGART, T. P. A.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 25. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1896.                    No. 4.


CONTENTS:
   Leaves  From  My Journal—Kim.   Notes  And
News.   Memorial Gathering—E.  B. W.   Califor.
nia—Woman's   Journal.   Woman’s   Home—Ex
Autobiagraphy Of Elizabeth L. Hyde.   R. S. And
P. A. Reports.   Miscellaneous. 
   EDITORIAL:—The   Woman’s  Vote.   Editorial
Notes. 

   POETRY:—Friends Of The Press  Club—Orielle
Curtis.     The   Spinet—Minna  Irving.    Remem-
brance—Lydia D. Alder.


FRIENDS OF THE PRESS CLUB. 
	WHILE you pore,
Over themes profound and vast,
Studying legendary lore,
Culling old world fancies o’er,
Tracing dim mysterious score,
Palimpsest from secret store
Cloistered in the whispering past;
Or perchance with thought more wise,
Pondering what directly lies
Under your observant eyes,—
Problems of the hour and day:--
How the brave balloonist tries
Task severe and high emprise,
Bravihg cold tempestuous skies;
How the searching Roentgen ray
Still new wonders brings alway;
Or how ’neath hypnotic sway
Minds from sentient thoughts astray,
Laws occult and strange obey;
Or, while patriotic zeal
Bids you seek the nation’s weal.
*         *         *         *         *         
While in your accustomed places,
You discuss with serious faces,
Themes of pith and weight like these,—
Pause—and place a dash or colon
in the essay good and wise;
Let me show you through my eyes,
Cedars tall and streams that roll on,
Hurrying to distant seas
With their wild sweet symphonies.

Tenderly fingers of evening were folding
Mantles of mist over valley and hill,
The eye in a rapture of beauty beholding
The red bloom of sunset fade softly and still,
When away from fair Utah, where sultry winds
	blow,
We sped as the arrow is shot from the bow,
As the eagle soars swift o’er the meadow be-
	low;—
Where the shriek of the steam sounded wild-
	ly and shrill.
On and still onward: in Eastern skies glowing
The saffron haired Dawn opened portals of
	flame,
Till through their bright arches fresh largess
	bestowing,
The Day King in splendor and majesty came.
Aquiver with gladness earth saw the light rise,
The flowers dried the dew in their tremulous
	eyes
And rang their soft joy-bells in grateful surprise,
Still westward we rolled over mountain and
	plain,

Here canons deep-shaded with crags beetling
	o’er us.
There, pink bloom of orchards that scented the
	breeze;
Now full bosomed rivers shone sparkling before
	us,
Or gleamed through the verdure of wide spread-
	ing trees.
We rushed through fair hamlets, we skirted broad
	plains,
With their rustling of grasses and waving of
	grains,
And paused where fair cities spread wide their
	domains,
Till we hailed the tall ships anchored safe from
	the seas.

How softly Pacific thy blue waves are glancing,
Mid moss vestured islands and silence serene!
So fair and so peaceful in liquid light dancing.
White crested Atlantic rolls billows of green,
What prairies all rustling with corn and with
	wheat,
What hills.where the amber grape clusters grow
	sweet,
What streams tripping seaward with silver shod
	feet,
What orchards and meadows lie smiling between!

Thine, Oh my country, these princely dominions,
Thy treasure-vaults mountains of wealth giving
	ore;
Thy tall masted ships spread their starry-crown
	pinions
And waft their rich gifts to Earth’s uttermost
	shore.
Shall the “land of the brave and the home of the
	free”
England’s vassal and appanage willingly be?
For a fetter of gold shall her statesmen find plea?
Then thy stars shall lead onward and upward no
	more.

So I mused as I sailed o’er the soft silken waters,
Where Puget Sound sings round her velvety
	isles,
And I asked shall the wisdom the ages have
	taught us.
Be vain to protect us from tyranny’s wiles?
But the waves rippled on in their musical glee,
And mirrored the grace of each vine-covered
	tree.
And beauty again seemed new born from the sea
Till thought grew entranced by earth’s magical
	smiles.

And now mydear friends in the hot dusty city,
I wish I could paint you the sylvan retreat,
Where I write at my ease and remember with
	pity
The tired throngs that swelter in fierce summer
	heat,
Think of trees just as far as the vision can go,
Reaching up to the skies in a numberless row,—
Spruce, cedar and fir,—leafy maple below,—
Vines and moss running riot with soft changing
	feet.
Embosomed in beauty imagine a clearing,
With mossy log fortalice circling it round,
Its cabin and garden securely ensphering,—
Here your Press correspondent cool refuge has
	found.
Birds, squirrels and bees join the Skykomish
song,
As the river flows bubbling and laughing along,
Green wave chasing wave in continuous throng,
With the soft grace of motion, the music of sound.

Here lightly the wild duck skims over the
	waters,
Or laves with their coolness her full-feathered
	breast.
From the snow mantled mountains the river has
	brought us,
Their soft dewy breezes, their blessings of rest.
Here awhile it is good the world’s strife to forget;
Its jostling and bustle, its envious fret,
Here nature’s sweet peace soothes life’s pain and
regret,
And hopes Paradise Bird in the heart builds her
	nest.

But friends of the Press Club, I gossip too long,—
Forgive the intrusion, I keow it is wrong;
The curb on my Pegasus needs to be strong,
Or he ambles on ground that to others
	belong.
I read your high Carnival 'neath the green
	shade.
And your glorious 4th with its pomp and
	parade,
With the beauty of Utah in splendor arrayed.
The miners and ranchers and railroad men
	here
Must perforce be content with very plain cheer.
*         *         *         *         *         
Success to the cause and the Press Club as
	well,
Remember with kindness your friend Orielle.

To Curtis I’ve hunted in vain for a rhyme, 
So l leave the last name for more leisurely
	time.


LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
		Tuesday, Nov. 19, 1895.
	WE left Genoa by mid-day train, and
continuing along the Mediterranean Coast,
still found the scenery imposing. We
passed Chiavari, inclosed by cultivated
hills. It has several old towers, and in the
environs many handsome Villas. Our
guide pointed out the Anchovy fishery.
	We passed the renowned winter resort,
Spezzia, the largest Military seaport in 
Italy. Its ship yard is one of the largest in 
Europe.
	We saw the beautiful Carrara Mountains
in the Appennines, the quarries have been
worked for more than two thousand years.
It is said they were discovered by a herds-
man, and that these quarries furnished the
marble for Caesar’s Palaces.
	At six o’clock we arrived at Pisa. As we
neared the station we could see grouped to-
gether in one corner of the town, the
Cathedral. Baptistry and Leaning Tower.
Taking the diligence we drove to the
Grand Hotel, which was very clean and nice.
We are now away from rose embowered
hotels. This hotel entertains King Hum-
bert when he comes to Pisa. The host
showed us the apartments of the king;
they were very elegant. Our dinner was
excellent, the cooking was delicious.
	Looking from my window on the op-


posite side of the river, was an exqusite 
little marble Morgue. It was built for a
church, and then used for that purpose; the
first time in a strange city I ever saw one
of those places without a shudder. The
Arno reminded me more of one of the large
canals seen at Amsterdam, but an English
lady said to me "you should have seen the
river last week during the rains when it
was full to the brim, and seemed as if it
would tear everything before it.” The
river divides the city into two nearly
equal parts; the quays which run along the
banks are spacious, there are four bridges,
one is of marble.
NOV. 20. After breakfast we drove to
the Cathedral built of marble, which with
the Baptistry and Leaning Tower, is said
to be the finest specimen that exists of the
style called by Italians the Gotico Moresco.
The Cathedral was begun in 1063, conse-
crated in 1118. In 1560 it was nearly de-
stroyed by fire, except the choir, but was
restored. It is 311 feet long, 106 feet wide,
and the nave is 109 feet high. The facade
is magnificent, the interior is exqusite
in finish and very imposing. The bronze doors
were put up in 1602—after the fire, but
one of the earlier ones is to be seen in the
South Aisle. The great bronze lamp which
gave Galileo the idea of the pendulum,
hangs in the nave. We watched it and
could see it swing, but only by looking at
some object near it; then it was very
perceptible. The statues and paintings are
fine. The most remarkable pictures are,
Andrea del Sarto ‘‘St. Cecilia” ‘‘St. Peter”
and ‘‘St. Agnes.” There were two exqui-
site Madonnas, but I could not learn by
whom. The campanile or belfry, is the
most curious, a cylindrical tower of 178
feet in height, graceful in proportions and
constructed of successive rows of marble
pillars, remarkable for its inclination,
thirteen feet out of the perpiudicular,
from whence the name, Leaning Tower,
and also why it is called one of the
seven wonders of the world. The Tower
has a  peal of seven bells, the heaviest
weighing six tons.
	The Baptistry, completed in 1278, is
about 100 feet in diameter, and the height
of the dome 190 feet. The pulpit, the
masterpiece of Nicola Pesano’ (1260) and
the fount, quite as beautiful, would pay
you for the illness of the voyage, just to see
them. A priest gave us the wonderful
echo; first pianissimo, then in rich full
tones; it answered in the same rich tones.
	The Campo Santo, completed in 1283, is
a large oblong building or corridor, enclos-
ing the ‘‘holy ground” which contains
many shiploads of earth brought from
Mount Calvary. The funeral mounments,
sarcophagi and Greek and Roman Anti-
quities are very curious. One picture
represents the “Last Judgment”. It
would fill your soul with horror. One of
the party remarked “were I obliged to see
that every day I would live a pure life, for
I never wish to go there.” As we left the
buildings a man took our attention with a
cute, tiny, brown dog, Marengo, he said
he was named, after the village of Sardinia.
It stands on the borders of a great plain
where, on the 14th of June 1800, Bonaparte
defeated the Austrians under General
Melas. Doggie was bought by a member
of our party.
	The square of the University contains
marble buildings. The University is'the
oldest in Italy, and has a library, a botani-
cal garden, a cabinet of natural history, and
au observatory.
	Pisa is of great antiquity, having been
one of the twelve towns of Etruria, and
afterwards augmented by a colony from
Rome.
	After a substantial lunch we took the
train for Rome. The cars differ from those
of France, they are not the long cars with
a passage down one side, they are divided
into compartments with a door connecting
the two, a tiny bell between, and leading
into the next compartment.
	We had views on our right of the Medi-
terranean, it being clear after leaving
Cecina, a view of the Island ot Elba. The
train was packed. We had dinner on the
train between stations, one hour for meals,
the train stopped, we left our car, ran to
the diner next the engine, the meal was
excellent, we stopped, ran back to our car,
others went to the diner; it was all novel
and amusing.
	About midnight we arrive at Rome
“The Eternal City.” We were thankful
we had a manager and he attended to the
Custom Officers. Arrangements were
made for our stay at Hotel d’ Angleterre
de’ Paris, among the most comfortable in
the city. Our rooms were well aired, and
much fatigued we retired, to dream of the
beautiful fountain that met our gaze just
after leaving the station.
	Nov. 21, 1896.—In Rome. Our break-
fast the inevitable rolls and coffee, but
good. Carriages were ordered, we drove
along the Tiber, passed the Angel Bridge,
a bridge of the Emp. Hadrian, Castle St.
Angels, or tomb of Hadrian, the most im-
posing mansoleum  in Rome, begun by
Uadrian, completed by his successor, A.
D. 139. The bridge is the approach to the
tomb; it is wholly ancient except the para-
pets,—to St. Peters Church, we left the
carriages at the fountain in the space in
front of the Church. It is a large area of
oval form surrounded with a magnificent
colonnade, the work of Berinrei. Viewing
the building from the outside we then
entered the Church, which stands on the
site of the circus of Nero, where many
Christians were martyred, and where St.
Peter is said to have been buried after his
crucifixion.
	The crypt is all that remains of the early
basilica. The present edifice was begun in
1506, by Julius II, from designs by Bram-
ante. The work went on with various
changes and under several architects, until
Paul III, being “inspired by God” entrust-
ed it to Michael Angelo. The Church was
dedicated by Urban III, in 1626, the colon-
nade added by Alexander VII in 1667, and
the sacristy by Pius VI, in 1780. The
main building cost fifty million dollars; the
work was so heavy that Julius II and Leo
X, resorted to the sale of indulgences to
raise the money; this led to the Reforma-
tion. Go and see it, nothing can give you
an idea of its vastness, grandeur and plain
splendor; the arts of architecture, sculpture
and painting are in the highest perfection.
The most celebrated artists, Bramante,
Raphael, Vignola, Maderno, Bernni and
Michael Angelo, all worked upon it. The
patriarchal chair is a throne elevated to the
height of 70 feet. The high altar has be-
low it St. Peter’s tomb, above it is a can-
opy of brass towering to a height of 132
feet, before the door to the tomb is a lamp
always lighted. On the floor was marked
the length of all the large Cathedrals in
the world; this was much larger. In one
of the chapels was a painting of St. Paul
baptising his jailors. 
	Leaving the Church we crossed the An-
gel Bridge, passed the Fountain of Trevi,
the legend is “If you drink of the waters of
Trevi, it will ensure you a return to Rome”
to the hotel for lunch. Then a drive upon
the Janiculum Hill, where the gardens are
fine, and there is a splended view of Rome,
built upon seven hills, situated chiefly on
the left bank of the Tiber. The most regu-
larly built is near the northern gate Parte
del Popolo, and the quarter of Bargo. The
squares are numerous but small, and adorn-
ed with fountains, obelisks and monuments.
We drove on the Flaminian Way, the
northern road which led from Ancient
Rome through the gate of Paolo. Near
the gate is the tomb of Caius Cestius, en-
closed in the wall of Aurelian. It is a
brick pyramid cased with marble, 161 feet
high, with a base of 98 feet. In the Prot-
estant cemetery at its foot, is the grave of
Keats, and the tomb which contains the
heart of Shelley. The cypress trees are
very old. As we drove along by the old
walls of Rome, the beggar boys turned
cartwheels, for sue’s they were bright-eyed
laughing boys, attractive in spite of dirt
and rags, looking like Murillo’s Beggar
Boys. We reached the Basilica of St.
Paul, “S. Paolo fuori le Mura”, a magnifi-
cent church which marks the spot where
the Apostle is believed to have been
buried. It contains Mosaics of the 13th
Century; the interior is supported by eighty
granite columns. We judged it one of the
most beautiful churches we had seen. Re-
turning we visited the Mammertine prison,
where St, Peter was liberated by the an-
gel.
	It was now dark, and we returned to
the hotel for dinner.
KIM.


WOMANS EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Boston University and the North-
western University at Evanston, Ill., have
both taken action to discountenance the
use of tobacco by their respective students.
Observations made by physicians on stu-
dents at Yale and Amherst, show that the
non-users of tobacco surpass the users in
both physical development and in scholar-
ship.						Ex.
	THE women of South Framingham,
Mass., are among the first in the State to
show especial interest in the political state
of affairs. At a public demonstration last
week, Mrs. Eleanor M. Martin, in behalf of
the women, presented a campaign flag to
the Middlesex Republicans. In 1840, the
ladies of this city gave a campaign flag to
the Whigs, which is now in the possession
of the Historical Society.		Ex.
	DR. GRACE N. KIMBALL of Bangor, Me.
now in charge of the principal relief work
in Armenia, where she has gained the title
of “heroine of the Van”, has been chosen
assistant physician of Vassar College. Dr.
Kimball has accepted and will leave Van at
the close of the harvest, in August, when
the relief work must end. She will visit
hospitals and schools in Europe before re-
turning. She has asked leave of absence
until January, before beginning her college
work. Dr. Kimball has obtained a nation-
al reputation for her bravery and work in
Van.							Ex.


WOMAN’S. EXPONENT.


THE SPINET.

By Minna Irving.
BENEATH the rafters, black and bare,
	The ancient spinet stands;
The spiders o’er its yellow keys
	Have stretched their filmy strands;
Around its weak and tottering frame
	The airy cobwebs blow,
In lieu of silken tapestries
	That mouldered long ago.
But windy nights a quaint old tune
	Comes stealing down the stairs;
For then she wakes the keys again,—
	A ghost with powdered hair.
The mice go dancing in and out
	To melodies she sung
When fashion trod the minuet
	And Washington was young.
Around her on the garret floor
	Her shining satins trail;
A haunting sorrow dims her eyes,
	Her face is proud and pale.
But when I climb the creaking stair,
	The gusty moonlight falls
On nothing but the withered herbs
	That hang along the walls.
And yet the spinet trembles still
	To that forgotten tune;
The ashes of a crumbled rose
	Upon the keys are strewn;
And yonder chest below the eaves
	Her gown of satin holds,
With sprigs of broken lavender
	Between its faded folds.


REMEMBRANCE.

[Lovingly dedicated to Mrs. Louise Spencer.]
As the years pass along in grand succession,
	Into the dim and shadowy Past,
How many we love join the grand procession,
	And with those that were,are silent classed.
Our fathers and mothers have each crossed o’er
	The river that rolls between,
And have met with those who crossed before,
	Who now only seem as a dream.
The young and the blithe, the grave and the gay,
	Who in life’s bright summer morning,
Gathered flowers of love that grew by the way,
	When the day was softly dawning.
How many, how many have grown tired and worn
	Like the child that is weary of playing,
And have laid down to rest, when hearts were all
		torn,
	And over their graves a low voice is saying:
“Softly sleep, softly sleep, lo! the battle is done,
	Sweetly rest, sweetly rest, for thy work is o’er,
Joyful now, joyful now, for thy crown is won,
	And thy home on another shore.”
As silent I muse in the eve’s changing light.
	Each friend comes to mind as in days of old,
And in the dear faces love is beaming bright
	Though their hair be dark, or shining gold.
And some that are left have gathered to day,
	To speak of the loved gone before,
May the flowers of love bloom for us while we
		stay,
	For this journey will end on another shore.
Let the flowers of friendship live on forever,
	Let remembrance shine out from the stars,
Let the breeze whisper love that is sighing ever
	And Music chant love in its changing bars.
For love is a plant that will never fade,
	Though blown by the cold winds of Time,
For its birth was immortal, and by God ’twas
		made,
	In His presence forever to shine.


Remember, remember though laughing or gay,
	That changes await us here,
Though life be happy as blooming May,
	Yet her leaves will grow yellow and sere,
And fall to the earth in whirling heaps,
Drifting hither and thither like worthless things
But our mother the earth in her bosom still
		keeps,
	The trust that the dead Summer brings.
O, wondrous life with thy toil and heat,
	Thy changes both sad and gay,
Thy kisses of joy both dear and sweet,
	And the flowers that bloom by the way,
Shed o’er us thy blessings on this happy day,
	And songs of rejoicing we’ll sing,
That in the old days that seem far away,
	In our galaxy of friends, we write Hannah T.
		King.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
June 19, 1896.


MEMORIAL GATHERING.

	ON Friday, June 19, a number of inti-
mate friends of the late Sister Hannah T.
King, met by invitation of her daughter,
Mrs. Louisa Spencer, at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Spencer in this city, in
memory of the gifted and much loved sister.
This pretty idea of social gathering to keep
her memory fresh and green, and to honor
her name and fame, was the idea of Mrs.
S. M. Kimball and Mrs. J. Fewson Smith,
and has been continued, yearly since her
death. The conversation is usually upon
Mrs. King’s characteristics, her writings,
her letters, and reminiscences of her event-
ful life and remarkable personality.
	The gathering was in the season of
roses and the perfume of the flowers was
delightful in the house, and the table dec-
orations were very fine. The ladies
present were M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, Rachel Grant, Helen M. Whitney,
Julia C. Howe, Eliza V. Smith, Margaret
Alford, Lydia D. Alder, Emily H. Wood-
mansee, Kate Brockbank, Louisa Spencer
and the writer.
	The conversation at table, though there
were no toasts or set speeches, was very
delightful and very like old-fashioned tea
table talk, and the spirit of it was quite re-
freshing to the soul, and the delicacies
partaken of were of the best and daintiest
of the season.
	If Mrs. King could have been present in
person, she would have been satisfied with
the perfect taste and order of the arrange-
ments.
						E. B. W.


CALIFORNIA.
	JULY 17, was Woman’s Day at the Chau-
tauqua Assembly at Pacific Grove. The
exercises were altogether in their hands,
and they used the opportunity to specially
discuss the amendment issue. The meet-
ing at 11 o’clock was called to order by
Mrs. A. A. Sargent, president of the State
Suffrage Association. Miss Susan B.
Anthony was elected president of the day.
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw presided over the
question box, and answered with great
wit the many objections against suffrage.
	In the afternoon Miss Susan B. Anthony
made an address, directing her speech more
particularly to the amendment question.
	Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper followed, and gave
her many hearers cogent reasons for her


alliance with the suffrage cause. Miss
Shaw then resumed the query-box. One
quite prominent question in relation to the
possible attitude of women on the silver
question, in case they secured the ballot,
was answered at length, and was interest-
ingly disposed of. Miss Shaw said the
trouble with most women is they never
have enough money to make silver a prob-
lem. She also stated she did not expect
that all women would be more intelligent
on the silver and tariff questions than men
en masse, but she thought that woman’s
greatest influence in politics would be in
local affairs. The grandest result of their
ballot would be to take all local and muni-
cipal affairs out of politics. She closed by
saying: “My greatest endeavors will be in
the direction of good government and good
morals.” Practical results of woman suf-
frage in Wyoming and Colorado had been
in this direction she said.
The successful day was closed by a bril-
liant address by Miss Shaw, before a large
gathering in the evening.— Woman's
Journal.


WOMAN’S HOME.

	THE formal opening of the Industrial
Farm Colony for Inebriate Women, took
place at Duxhurst, Surrey, England, July
6th. Her Royal Highness, Princess Mary
Duchess of Teck, laid the foundation stones
for three cottages, there being already six
cottages, a large main building, a church,
a hospital and a manor house for ladies of
quality. Purses of money from White
Ribbon women and others in all parts of
England were presented to her Royal
Highness in aid of the Institution. Prayer
was offered by the Hon. the Dean of Here-
ford. Lady Henry Somerset gave an ad-
dress of welcome. The Park sisters, the
well known cornet quartette from New
York, a band and a choir of boys furnished
the music.
	This home was founded by the British
Woman’s Temperance Association led by
Lady Henry Somerset, and is the first
attempt to provide for inebriate women, the
ameliorative surroundings of country air and
out door occupations in homes rather then
corrective institutions.
	The following guests were entertained at
luncheon at Reigate Priory, with Princess
Mary. The Duchess of Teck, the Duchess of
St. Albans; Adeline, Duchess of Bedford;
Lily, Duchess of Marlborough; Lord Will-
am Beresford; Lady Katherine and Mr.
Somers Somerset; Lady Louise Loder;
Lady Edward Cavendish; Lady Patersen;
Lady Eva and Mr. Dugdale; Lady Barnes;
Lady Hope and Mr. Denny; Lady Hylton;
Sir Wilfred and Lady Lawson; the Dean of
Hereford; Hon. Mrs. Leigh; Sir Algernon 
West; Mrs. Eva McClaren; Miss Frances
Willard; Mrs. and Miss Wilberforce; Miss
Tufnall, Lady in Waiting; Hon. A. Hood;
Hon. Mr. Cubitt H. P.; Richard Harding
Davis, Esq.
	THE appointment of H. R. H. Princess
Beatrice, to be Governor of the Isle of
Wight, in successon to the late Prince
Henry of Battenberg, is not only a step
popular to the inhabitants of the Island,
but one which carries on the best traditions
of English history, when women succeeded
to posts of honor and responsibility, irre-
spective of prejudice, where hereditary
right and circumstances indicated them, as
fitting persons.				Ex.


28 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - -  Editor. 
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage, one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1896.


THE WOMAN’S VOTE.

	WHAT the women of Utah will do with
suffrage this year, seems to be puzzling
people very greatly, not only abroad in the
land, but here at home. It is a matter for
the most profound thought, and careful 
consideration. It would be very strange if
women themselves knew just exactly what
they ought to do for the best and highest
good, at a critical time like the present,
when men who have had the franchise for
years are breaking away from the political
party which they have always sustained,
and looking elsewhere for the help to secure
the country from peril, who shall decide
these grave questions for women?
	It is the positive duty of every individual
woman to study and examine these grave
and solemn questions for herself, and not
rest satisfied until she has at least sufficient
knowledge of the matter to satisfy her own
conscience. There is much good in both
the great parties, and there are able speak-
ers on both sides, eloquent and logical,
who can convince one against her own will,
as it were. But women though they may
be deceived by sophistry, will not be
bought in large numbers as men have often
been, that is one consolation. Generally
speaking, women will stand by the home,
and the vital question that concern the
family.
	The women of Utah will certainly be
conservative, with very few exceptions.
Those who have passed through “The 
narrows” so to speak, will not risk uncer-
tainties in the matter of voting, they will
at least act conscientiously, seeking for
wisdom and counsel from reliable sources.
There seems to be a wave of unrest passing
over the country such as has not been
known since the civil war; what
is its significance even men who have been
weighing and discussing political economy
and methods all their lives, are unable to
determine, and are drifting hither and
thither with the current that has set in for
good or ill, as the result must prove.
	But the writer has implicit faith in the
future of Utah, and does not believe it de-
pends on partyism entirely, but on
industry, thrift, morality, honesty, integrity
constancy and virtue of its people. What-
ever will promote these sterling qualities
and attributes, will uplift the people of the
new state.
	Yet no one has stronger hopes of the
good to be accomplished by equal suffrage
than the writer. The love of home and
country is rooted and grounded in true


woman’s nature, and that land is safest
where women are free and untramelled, and
can exercise the rights of citizenship I
without fear and intelligently. If every 
woman in Utah who prizes her liberty, and
loves her mountain home, will seek to
comprehend the causes and effects of the 
present conditions over which there
seems to be so much trouble, in nine
cases out of ten she will undoubtedly ar-
rive at a satisfactory conclusion, and be
able to cast her vote judiciously. Re-
member this is an important time, and one
had far better study the question of the
hour and mark the signs of the times,
than to indulge in any frivolity or pas-
time that is only fleeting, and be car-
ried away by the current of circumstances.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ANOTHER very able woman has been
added to the Board of Regents of the
Utah University, Mrs. Rebecca E. Little.
We congratulate her and feel confident
of her good judgment and reliability.
	MISS CLARA BARTON, President of the
Red Cross in America, is on her way
home from Constantinople The Sultan
has conferred upon her, the emblem of the
second order of Chefakat.
	THE excursion to Saltair which has
been planned for the Relief Society and
the women of the new state, will afford
a good opportunity to hear able speeches
on the vital questions now confronting
the nation. They will be made by young
men born in this Intermountain region,
who feel deeply and strongly in regard to
the future welfare of Utah.
	A Relief Society was organized in Can-
non Ward on Tuesday, August 4th,
Bishop Lewis M. Cannon presiding.
Officers elected were, Sarah J. Cannon,
President, Rebecca A. Sharp and Sarah A.
J. Cannon, Counselors. A fuller account
of the organization will be given later.
The speakers were Bishop L. M. Cannon,
Elders C. H. Gould and L. John Nuttall,
Sisters M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, E. B-
Wells and Annie T. Hyde.
	ONE of Salt Lake’s favorite merchants,
R. K. Thomas Esq., has recently moved
his dry goods establishment into a hand-
some and commodious new store on Main
St., Nos. 48 and , 50 between South Tem-
ple and First South Sts. The store is taste-
fully fitted up and quite a variety of new
goods has been added to the stock. Very
elegant silk dress goods, Dresden with Per-
sian effects, and at extremely low prices
considering the quality. Mr. Thomas
keeps an excellent variety in ladies dress
goods and this line of fabrics, and as he al-
ways does his own purchasing in the East-
ern markets and has very fine taste, his
patrons and customers may be sure of a
good article in this line. There is no better 
place to buy dry goods nor where ladies
are more likely to be suited, than at R. K.
Thomas’s, and the clerks are attentive and
obliging.


AUTOBIAGRAPHY
OF
ELIZABETH L. HYDE.

[By request of my dear friend and long
time neighbor, the editor of the EXPO-
NENT, I have written a brief sketch of my
long and successful life.]

	I am now in my 86th year; my memory
is good, my mental faculties unimpaired,
but my bodily strength is failing me. My
name is Elizabeth Lane Hyde. My parents
were James L. Lane, and Jane Lane. I
was born in the (County) town of New
Radnor, Radnorshire, England, February
26, 1811. My birth was very humble, my
father being a laboring man; but my par-
ents were honest and industrious people,
and managed to give me as good an educa-
tion as the schools of Radnor afforded in
those days.
	When I was old enough I learned the
dressmaking, and worked in that business
in my native town until I was twenty-six
years of age. During this time I became
acquainted with a very respectable young
man, a farmer’s son in the neighborhood.
We kept company for six years, but cir-
cumstances and my lack of fortune com-
bined to separate us. He married another
young woman but was never happy in his
home life, and died in a few years.
	I mention this circumstance because it
was the reason I remained single to the age
of thirty-five years. I could not remain at
home, so I went to London and worked in
a millinery establishment nearly three
years. I came back home the next week
after Queen Victoria was married, but I
could not settle there again. I had some
friends in another town not far away, so I
went there and commenced business in the
millinery, and soon had a good prospect.
I was always inclined to be religious, and
I soon became a leading member in the Bap-
tist Church and Sunday School.
	In 1846, I was married to a widower,
with two fine boys, whom I loved very
much, and in time I had a son born to me,
but he only lived three months.
	I soon found I had made a mistake in my
marriage. My husband was a drinking
man and he had deceived me; he despised
every religion, and he would sometimes
swear about my going to meeting. Such
is a brief sketch of my life before the true
Gospel of Jesus Christ found me.
	In the fall of 1847, a farmer's daughter
from a distance came to my establishment
to learn the business. She brought some
books with her which I accidentally found.
I was very much alarmed about these
books, on account of the other young girls
under my charge; but she was so good-
natured over it that she soon disarmed me,
and I became much interested myself in
what they contained. I read the Voice of
Warning through, and then every other
Mormon book I could get. It took right
hold of me; I could see truth in every line,
and I durst not trifle with it, let the conse-
quence be what it might. I was clandes-
tinely baptized on the 25th of February,
1848, and the Lord gave me such a know-
ledge of the truth, that I felt able to face
the whole world. Every trial that I have
had to pass through, has strengthened my
faith, and I have been tried in very deed.
As soon as it was known that I had become
a convert to the Mormon faith, my Baptist
friends forsook me, and my husband acted
more like a fiend than a man. I tried to
do my duty; attended to my business and
household affairs. At times I felt above
such petty ways, and sometimes like run-
ing away out of it; but when I stopped to
consider, that seemed folly, so I began to
lay plans. All my means was in my busi-


[Column 1]
ness, so I commenced sending money to
Liverpool as often as I could spare it, until
I had sent enough, to pay for my emigra-
tion to Zion the cheapest possible way.
	In the spring of 1856, I started for Salt
Lake City, on April 19, with a company of
Welsh Saints. I shipped on board a sailing
vessel named the “S. Curling”, in honor of
the captain, who was part owner. Our
president’s name was Captain Dan Jones.
I became acquainted with David Grant and
John Oakley, returning missionaries, and
cooked for them on the passage, which was
a very rough one. While on board I
composed an article for the captain, and
our president presented it to him; he was
very much pleased with it, and paid me
some fine compliments:
ON THE ATLANTIC OCEAN,
MAY, 1856.

CAPTAIN CURLING.
COME Mormons, and sing; let the deep waters
	ring,
All praise to our guide on the ocean;
Pray for him to have rest when Thy people are
	blest,
To have part in the first resurrection.
All hail to the captain, for he is our chieftain,
In crossing the mighty blue sea;
No danger we fear while onward we steer,
Can a captain be kinder than he?
United we pray to see the glad day,
Roll on when the righteous are blest,
Long live Captain Curling, his canvas unfurling,
In perils may God give him rest.
Now we bid you adieu, with all the ship’s crew,
Glad to meet you again in the West.
					ELIZABETH LANE.
	We landed in Boston, Mass., the 23rd of
May, 1856, and went straight to the cars
and started for the Mormon camp at Iowa,
there to make ready for our journey of 1300
miles with hand carts. Captain Edward
Bunker was appointed to conduct us
through. We started on our way West
June 24, and arrived safe at Florence, and
stopped there two weeks, and left for the
plains July 30. I had always been iso-
lated from the Church, so that I had not one
particular friend; I seemed to travel all
alone. I was allowed to bring 15 pounds
of baggage; this was put on the cart with
a man and his wife. This man had a wood-
en leg, his name was Thomas Evans, and
he lives at Spanish Fork. He soon gave
out in the deep sands of Nebraska, and his
wife and myself took the cart all the way to
Laramie. When the man got better, I
became lame while we were traveling in
the Black hills, I had rheumatism in my
ankles and had to give up pulling the cart.
I made a friend of one of the teamsters,
and he put a small bundle on the wagon
for me, after Captain Bunker had refused
to do so, and then I was free to walk alone.
There was one man in the camp I shall
always remember with gratitude, his name
is John Cousins, he lives at Bear Lake.
He has carried me on his back through
many rivers, and when Captain Bunker
put me out of the wagon at Laramie River,
he picked me up and carried me through
the water.
	We finally came to Green River, and I
was behind the camp; there was no one in
sight and it was near sundown. I sat down
and thought this is the last. After a while
began to ask myself what brought you
here? I called myself a coward. So I got
up and asked the Lord to help me, and pre-
pared to wade the river; and the Lord did

[Column 2]
help me, and I got safe to the camp just as
they were preparing to come after me.
But the next morning I could not stand;
I had been chilled through. Brother
David Grant, then the Captain of our one
hundred, was sent for and had me lifted in-
to one of the wagons for the forenoon, and
gave orders to the teamster that I should
wade no more rivers, and the order was
obeyed.
	We arrived in Salt Lake City, Oct. 2,
and camped on what is now the University
Square, where we partook of a good supper
after a fast of thirty hours. We were com-
manded to eat our last rations beyond the
big mountain at noon the day before, as
they expected provisions at the camping
place that night, but were disappointed, and
we had walked fifteen miles that day with-
out food.
	I had now reached Salt Lake City, the
goal of my ambition; but no one came to
greet me as they did others, and take them
to their homes. I knew the young woman
that brought the Gospel to me was in the
City and married, but I knew not where to
find her, and she was searching for me with
a wrong name as I had traveled in my
maiden name of Lane, so she missed find-
ing me. I made the camp my home until
after Conference, and then went to Kays-
ville with some friends. While there I got
the friend’s address whom I was looking
for, so I came back to the city and found
her. She was very glad to meet me, and
offered me a home for the winter; but she
was very much changed, we were not of
the same spirit now; her people and herself
were finding fault with everything, especi-
ally the Church affairs. So I began to
think of making a home for myself, which
was a difficult thing to do in my case as I
did not want another husband in this life if
could possibly help it, though I knew
that marriage was an eternal principle or-
dained of God. I realized the Savior had
said in the resurrection they were not mar-
ried or given in marriage. From this I
understand, that in order to partake of that
eternal principle, the marriage has to be
solemnized in this life. It was the time of
the Reformation, and I had plenty of suit-
ors, among whom were three widowers
with good homes. Each one of them told
me the same thing, if I would marry him
he would not take another wife; but I de-
clined, that was not what I wanted. I had
sacrificed my affections twice, I was now
trying to act upon principle.
	Through Brother David Grant I be-
came acquainted with his father-in-law,
Heman Hyde and his good wife. They
were generally called Father and Mother
Hyde, they were getting to be old people.
They had a nice home on State St. in the
13th Ward In them I found congenial
spirits, I could sit and talk with them
about Mormonism by the hour and not get
weary. Heman Hyde had been a prosper-
ous business man in New York State when
Mormonism came to them, and all his fami-
ly of five children, most of them grown up,
came into the Church. He sold or bartered
away all his fine property, and followed the
Church to Kirtland, thence to Missouri,
and afterwards Nauvoo, and finally to this
valley. By this time their ample fortune
was greatly reduced, but for that I did not
care; I was willing to work and help them
in their declining years; and I consented to
become one of the family, and was sealed to
Brother Hyde as his wife, in the new and
everlasting covenant, on the 6th of Decem-

[Column 3]
ber that same year. I have always been
happy and contented in my last choice, and
so were Brother and Sister Hyde. Mother,
as I always called Sister Hyde, would say,
“Elizabeth it was the Lord brought you
here to comfort me.” We lived together
nearly six years without a jar. I took care
of her for seven months in her last sickness
(with dropsy.) She died in September, 1862.
	I had always been self sustaining, and
while traveling I would often think, what
could I do when I arrived here. I could do
almost anything except washing or weav-
ing. What was my surprise the first week
to find that the Hyde family kept a laundry
and did washing for gentlemen. I said
nothing, but turned to and helped, and soon
mastered the business, and took the lead
and made a success. It was the chief sup-
port of the family as long as Brother
Hyde lived; he was taken sick and died in
June, 1869, at the age of 81 years. He
was a very just man and protected me by
making a will he left me the use and inter-
est of the property as long as I lived. The
Will was probated, and Brother Hyde’s son
Rosel Hyde, with two grandsons, appointed
trustees. They put everything in order
and left it in my charge. I soon realized
that I could not manage the land to make
a living, so I petitioned the Court and
they sold a five acre lot, and helped: me to
build two tennement houses on the city
property, to rent. I managed them and
the rents made me quite comfortable for
twenty years.
	I had always been a member of the
Relief Society; I was now a teacher going
around the blocks in the ward, looking
after the poor and sick, which office I held
until age disabled me for all such labor.
	In the boom of 1889, we sold the old
home and realized a good price. The
trustees put the money to interest for my
benefit, and it brings me a nice income. I
live with one of the grandsons. I have a
room to myself and pay for my board and
attendance. They respect and love me,
anticipate all my wants, and there is noth-
ing too good for “grandma.”
	When I look back on my past life my
trials are nothing when compared with the
prospect of sharing in the reward that is in
store for this great and good people, the
Latter-day Saints, whom the God of heaven
has picked out from among the nations, and
brought to Zion to learn of His ways and
keep His commandments, and make “The
desert blossom as the rose.”
		ELIZABETH LANE HYDE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Confer-
ence of the Sanpete Stake of Zion, held
June 5th, 1896, at Manti, President M. A.
P. Hyde presiding. Singing, “Lord we
come before Thee now”, prayer by Pres’t.
John Maiben, singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.” Roll called and min-
utes read and approved.
	Pres’t. M. A. Hyde made a few opening re-
marks. Pres’t. Zina Young thought of the
dear ones (Sisters M. W. Snow and S. A.
Peterson), who had just passed away, that
they would work with even more interest
than before. Since we have become ac-
quainted with the eternal truths, we have
another guarding angel to watch over us.
Spoke of apostacy, and for an example
could take father Marsh with his palsied


[Column 1]
hand, who had said “If any of you want to
apostatize, look at me.” Said she loved to
see the faithful. We have many joys in
the Gospel that take us above earthly sor-
rows; we have great reason to rejoice, being
united with the eternal priesthood of God.
	The vacancy caused through the depart-
ure of the Stake counselors, was then filled.
On motion of Pres’t. Zina Young, Alvira
S. Cox was to act in the vacancy caused by
the death of Minerva W. Snow, and Abbie
Shoemaker was to fill the place of Sarah A.
Peterson.
	Pres’t. John B. Maiben said “we are sub-
ject to change, but we must acknowledge
the hand of God in all things. Let us ex-
ercise those God-like qualities.” Gave
words of consolation to Pres’t. C. Peterson
in his bereavement, said “God remembers
the mission of the faithful, therefore, let us
be comforted. May the spirit of wisdom,
righteousness, of truth, of kindness and good
will rest upon us.”
	Pres’t. M. A. Hyde felt favored with the
presence of Sisters Zina Young and E. J.
Stevenson. Spoke of the great loss
sustained in the death of her counselors,
but it is not pleasing in the sight of God to
mourn.
	The Ephraim North Ward Relief Society
was represented by Pres’t. Sophia Ander-
son, Ephraim South Ward by Pres’t. Ellen
Dorius, Fountain Green by Pres’t. Polly A.
Johnson, Fairview by Pres’t. Eliza Barthol-
omew, and Gunnison by Pres’t. Helena
Madsen.
	Pres’t. C. Peterson felt that the sisters
just called would be as much beloved as
those who had passed away. He requested
the sisters to come and be set apart.
	Sister Aivira Cox was set apart by Pres’t.
John Maiben, and Sister Abbie Shoemaker
by Pres’t. William Y. Reid.
	The resignation of Helen E. Young as
Cor. Stake Secretary was read and accepted
with a vote of thanks. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Hans Jensen.
	Pres’t. Rebecca Wareham of Manti ex-
tended an invitation to the officers and
visitors attending Conference to attend a
banquet in honor of Pres’t. Hyde on her 
80th birthday, where she was presented
with an elegant gold watch and chain.

	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing by the
choir, prayer by Brother J. F. Allred, sing-
ing. President Hyde returned her thanks and
appreciation for the kindness shown her;
hoped we might be one. Spoke upon the
wheat question, said we must store grain
and take care of it.
	Sister Caroline Simpson represented the
Relief Society of Mt. Pleasant, Pres’t.
Rebecca Wareham represented the North
Ward of Manti, Pres’t. Esther Anderson
the South Ward of Manti, Pres’t. Annie
Hardy, Moroni, Pres’t. Matilda Olsen, May-
field, Pres’t. M. A. Frantzen, Spring City, 
Pres’t. Elizabeth Thompson, Sterling, and
Pres’t. Ann Midgley, of Wales.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson of Salt Lake, said
the association of the Saints was more to
her than any thing else. We should learn
our duty and be humble, for it is those
whom the Lord will bless. We should
cultivate the spirit of cheerfulness and
gentleness; we will not make many mis-
takes if we have the Spirit of the Lord to
direct us. Was pleased to note that the
sisters had read the Doctrine and Covenants
according to instructions. Pres’t. Zina
Young spoke of blessing the sick, said we

[Column 2]
must be wise in our administration in all
holy ordinances.
	Counselor Alvira Ccx asked an interest
in our faith and prayers to assist her in her
great calling. Desired to be worthy of the
respect and esteem of the Saints. Coun-
selor Abbie Shoemaker felt her calling a
great responsibility, but if the Lord would
help her she would round up her shoulders,
and try to do her part
	Pres’t. J. D. T. McCallister (of the
Temple) felt that we were blessed indeed to
be here, to see and enjoy the Society of
“Aunt Zina.” Thought at times great
things were imparted to us for our en-
couragement, and we should be careful
whom we impart them to. We should
read the revelations of God, they are gems
there are things in the Doctrine and Cove-
nants that will lead us to celestial glory.
Thought the spirit of love and forgiveness
was present. God has blessed the honest
toil of this people; he felt humble in his
spirit.
	Sisters Stevenson and Young encouraged
the people in taking the EXPONENT. Sis-
ter M. A. Hyde spoke in tongues and
Sister Zina Young interpreted.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Do what is right.” Benediction by
C. Madsen.
		MARIA WILLARDSON Sec.

PRIMARY STAKE FAIR OF SEVIER.
	According to appointments, Stake Pri-
mary President, Louisana Heppler, with
her counselors, and Secretary Mary Rick-
enbach, started to visit the Primary Fairs
in the county. On the 1st. of June they
should have held one for Sigurd and Vir-
million, but on account of sickness could
not hold one. On the 2nd of June, we left
our homes and arrived in Aurora at 10
o’clock a. m. After opening the Fair, we
viewed the things, saw that a great deal of
interest had been taken by the children,
especially by the boys in making tables,
rakes, barrows etc. We held a meeting in
the afternoon, and attended a Primary
concert at night. Next morning we went
to Salina and attended the Fair in the fore-
noon, and in looking over the things found
that both girls and boys had done some
very neat work. At 2 o’clock we held a
meeting and spoke for some time to a
houseful of children, and also had the
pleasure of attending a concert at night and
enjoyed ourselves very much.
	After a short ride from Salina, we
arrived at Redmond and were surprised
when we entered the house and saw how
well everything was arranged. After ex-
amining the things, we could not help but
think the children had done well, every-
thing being so neat. Parents and children
gathered at 2 p.m. in the meeting house
and we held a meeting, and enjoyed our-
selves very much. They also gave, as in
other places, a concert at night.
	A long and dreary ride through the dust
and sun, brought us to Richfield on the
5th. We were greatly disappointed in
not seeing more of an interest taken, but
felt like giving credit to all those who made
something. A program was prepared for
the afternoon meeting, and the children
had learned their parts well, which gave
Sister Heppler much joy in seeing that they
like others were interested. We returned
home that evening feeling well.
	We rested three days and then took a
long dreary ride over the dugways and
arrived in Monroe at 10;30 on the 9th of

[Column 3]
June. We attended the Fair in the fore-
noon. After looking at the things, we
saw that the girls were interested, one girl
having fourteen articles; but we were great-
ly disappointed in not finding one thing
made by the boys. We held a meeting in
the afternoon, and were pleased with the way
thechildren rendered their parts. Next day
we met with the Joseph Primary. They
also had a good Fair for the few things pre-
pared. In the afternoon we held a meet-
ing, and attended a concert at night. A
short ride from Joseph found us in Elsi-
nore. We were somewhat disappointed in
not seeing more of an interest taken by the
parents and children. At 2 p. m. we held
a meeting, and enjoyed ourselves very
much; then we partook of a picnic that the
children had brought.
	On the 12th of June we met with the
nverury and Annabella Ward’s Fair, and
were pleased to see so much interest taken
by the children in making something for
the Fair and in taking their part in the meet-
ing. We attended a Primary concert at
night. We again returned home, and on
Tuesday went to a Fair in Glenwood, and
credit is surely due to both parents and
children in making such a display of fancy
work, cooking and carpenter work. We
held a meeting in the afternoon and attend-
ed a conceit at night. After a day’s long
and tiresome ride, we arrived in Koosharem,
and next day we met with the Burrville
and Koosharem Primaries, and were pleased
with the Fair, and had a good time during
our meeting. We went to a concert at
night. Driving over dugways and through
dust, at 2 p. m. we arrived in Wallsville,
and were pleased to see that, though being
the smallest place, it had the best Fair.
We then returned home, feeling well paid
for our trip in seeing the parents and child-
ren taking so much interest.
		MARY RICKENBACH, Sec.

ONEIDA STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the: Relief
Society, convened at Trout Creek, June.7,
1896.
	President Elizabeth Fox with her coun-
selors, Mary A. Hawks and Delilah. E.
Dudley, met at Mink Creek, Saturday,
June 6, at 12 o’clock, where the first
special meeting was held with the Mink
Creek Relief Society. They were kindly
entertained by Brother and Sister Graham.
	Meeting commenced at 2 o’clock. Pre-
sent on the stand, besides the Stake officers,
were Pres’t. Graham, counselors and
secretary, and one of the counselors to the
Bishop, (John Olsen.)
	Meeting opened with usual exercises,
Pres’t. Fox presiding. All the speakers
felt well, and much good and timely in-
struction was given, and all felt blessed.
	From Mink Creek we proceeded on our
journey in company with Brother Anderson
of Franklin, Idaho, to Trout Ceeek, where
we were kindly taken care of by the sisters.
	Sunday morning we met with the Sab-
bath school in a nice meeting house. Every
thing was so neat and clean. The aisles
are carpeted with new home made carpet,
the building is seated with comfortable
home made seats, the whole interior being
painted in a delicate drab color. They
have an organ, a good supply of music-
books as well as a good supply of Sabbath
School books. The stand is also carpeted
and seated with comfortable chairs, table
and Church standard works, and last but
not least, a beautiful set of silver Sacrament


[Column 1]
dishes given by the Relief Society of the
ward. The house was divided into apart-
ments by curtains, while the walls are
painted in cream pink with a beautiful
border of neat design.
	Bishop McGee Harris and Superintendent
John Turner were present. Miss Violet
Sorenson played the organ in a masterly
way, and in connection with the children’s
clear voices, produced soul-stirring music
as they sang the praises of our Father in
heaven.
	At 2 o’clock the Relief Society Con-
ference convened. Meeting was called to
order and opened by the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, Pres’t. Elizabeth Fox
presiding.
	Bishop Harris of Trout Creek, Bishop
Bennett of Mound Valley Ward, Pres’t.
Eliza Hale of Mound Valley Relief Society,
Counselor Jessie Harris of Thatcher Ward,
and Pres’t. Ingrid Graham of Mink Creek,
were present on the stand with the presid-
ing officers. After the roll was called,
the minutes of the last Conference were read
and accepted, and a favorable report was
given by each representative present.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley was happy to
make the acquaintance of so many bright
and intelligent faces, but felt a timidity in
attempting to instruct them; but she real-
zed it was the work of the Lord that we
are engaged in. We came not to do our
own will, but the Father’s who sent us;
and gave much instruction to the mothers,
daughters and teachers, and exhorted all to
be up with the spirit of the times, and to
keep the commandments of God, in fact
to “Seek first the kingdom of God and its
righteouness and all things shall be added.”
	Counselor Hawks spoke of the difference
between the peace enjoyed in our midst and
the horrors and wickedness that was going
on in the world. Advised all to step for-
ward in performance of every duty, and see
that their lamps were filled and burning
and ready at any time to go out to meet
every call and requirement made of them
by the servants of God.
	President Fox felt well pleased to again
meet with the Saints living in the vicinity
of Trout Creek, and was pleased to see
their new meeting house, and to feel the
quiet spirit of peace which seemed to pre-
vail in their midst. Said she attended the
General Relief Society Conference in Salt
Lake City in April, and testified to the
spirit and power enjoyed and manifested in
the meeting held by the sisters, and to the
interest manifested, and the good counsel
and instructions given there by the breth-
ren who were present. She spoke at great
length on the counsel and advice and items
of business given at the General Conference.
Instructed the sisters to keep on and be
encouraged in the good work, to persevere
in the storing of grain, caring for the poor,
the sick and afflicted etc.
	Bishop Harris spoke a short time. He
appreciated the labors and assistance of the
Relief Society in his ward, and testified to
their faithfulness. Bishop Bennett also
gave good counsel and instruction in a brief
manner. Conference adjourned for three
months, and the meeting then closed by
singing and prayer.
	At five o’clock we proceeded on our
journey for ten or fifteen miles, and we
were kindly entertained over night by
Brother and Sister Harris of Thatcher Ward.
	On the morning of the 8th we started for
Chesterfield at 7 o’clock a. m. Noon found
us at Bancroft, where we rested and were

[Column 2]
refreshed at Brother and Sister Banks, who
were old acquaintances of Sister Hawk’s,
lately of Spanish Fork.
	We arrived at Chesterfield in time to fill
our appointments at 5 o’clock. The sisters
all felt well and we had a good meeting.
Bishop Tollman not being at home, his
counselors met with us. There we were
kindly entertained for the night by Brother
and Sister Muir and Sister Call.
	We started for Dempsie Ward the morn-
ing of the 9th., at 7 a. m. On account of
not being acquainted with the roads, we
traveled two hours and a half on the wrong
side of the Port Neuf River, and did not
have time to retrace our steps, so we were
obliged to ford the river, which we did
very comfortably, having found a good
ford. We then proceeded on through the
canyon on a good dugway, high enough to
have a good view of the falls with all their
grandeur until we came suddenly to the
opening, where we found Brother and Sis-
ter Boice and Sister Rhoda Bingham, with
a beautiful dinner in waiting for us, includ-
ing a large platter of beautiful salmon trout.
To say we enjoyed their hospitality would
not half describe our feelings, as they all
were old time acquaintances; and the only
tiling we regretted was that we could not
stay with them longer, and take part in
catching as well as in eating the fish. We
visited the Warm Springs, where so many
go every year to bathe in its waters, to re-
ceive the benefit of its medical virtues.
	We held a spirited meeting at two o’clock
in which all felt well, and much good in-
struction was given by the company, as well
as by the local sisters and brethren; a full
report of which would make this article too
lengthy. We proceeded on as far as Mc.
Cammon, at 4 o’clock, leaving our sisters
and brethren with a hearty, God speed,
standing at the meeting house door. We
reached Mc. Cammon at 4 o’clock, and held
an evening meeting at Brother Norton’s
house, where we remained over night, and
took the train for Pocatello at 11 a. m. next
morning.
	At 2 p. m. our meeting was called to or-
der at Pocatello, with a full house. Present
on the stand was Stake President Fox,
counselors Mary Hawks and Delilah E.
Dudley, President Regenia Pond, Coun-
selors Mary Ann Spillman and Nettie Har-
grave, Secretary C. Harrison and Silva
Dawson; also Bishop Charles Cannon,
counselor N. P. Nelson, Elders N. S.
Pond, and Morgan Jaines. Meeting opened
by the usual exercises, President Elizabeth
Fox presiding. The roll was called,
showing fifty four members enrolled. The
minutes were excellent and given in a very
able manner, showing both tact and ability.
	Pres’t. Pond gave a pleasing report of
their labors, and welcomed the sisters to
Pocatello; said their visit was very much
appreciated.
	Pres’t. Fox was pleased to be able to
visit Pocatello, and find the Relief Society
in such good circumstances, and feeling so
well. She laid before the meeting the in-
structions given at the General Conference
in April, and exhorted them to continue in
the good work etc. She was followed by
Mary Hawks and Delilah E. Dudley, who
each in her turn gave excellent instruction.
	Bishop Cannon testified to the faithful
labors of the sisters, and said in the strength
of the different organizations, lay the
strength of the Church.
	Counselor N. P. Nelson followed with

[Column 2]
many words of counsel and encouragement;
so also did Brother Morgan Jaines.
	Sister Homes, late from the Island of
Tasmania, gave an account of how she re-
ceived the Gospel and how she had been
able to emigrate to Zion, and how much
she appreciated being with the Saints.
	At the close of the meeting we were
kindly escorted to the adjoining room be-
longing to the Relief Society, where a
grand banquet awaited all. Tables were
set the whole length of the room, and
beautifully decorated with flowers of all
kinds too numerous to mention, and loaded
with every variety of cake, ice cream,
lemonade, angel food etc. After the guests
and members were seated and thanks re-
turned to the bountiful Giver of all, we
enjoyed a regular time of feasting and
visiting was participated in while willing
hands and loving hearts administered to the
wants of all, even to the least child; and
the sick were also remembered. More
than one hundred were entertained at the
tables before the feast was ended.
	One grand feature of it all is the Relief
Society have dishes enough of their own to
set the tables for a large number, a cook
stove, pans, cutlery, table linen etc., and
a large convenient cupboard to store them
all away securely between times of using in
their own comfortable Relief Society meet-
ing house They also own a full set of
silver ware, which they keep elsewhere for
security’s sake. Much praise is due to those
who so willingly administered to the wants
of all present. In the evening we attended
a meeting of the Woodman’s Club held at
the Pavilion. A program was rendered
with very good music and recitations, and
speeches and some business; at the close of
the meeting dancing was introduced. This
we did not stay to see as the evening was
far spent, but we returned to Sister Pond’s
and Sister Nelson’s for the night.
	Pocatello is a neat little town full of life
and business, and is the County seat of
Bannock Co. There are many good build-
ings, prominent among which are four
or five churches of different denominations,
two large schoolhouses, very roomy and
commodious looking, banks and stores, mu-
sic stores, machine shops, grocery stores,
besides dwelling houses etc.
	We left Pocatello the morning of the
nth. at 7 o’clock, in company with Brother
Nelson. We traveled about twenty-five
miles in a comfortable buggy, and we en
joyed seeing the natural scenery of the
mountains and river, and the huge masses
of lava rock piled up in walls or tumbled
into piles by the thousand tons, and ex-
tending for ten or fifteen miles in an un-
broken chain along the bed of the Port-
Neuf River. At a glance the multitudes of
rock which compose the masses, appear to
be the same shape, but on closer inspection
no two are exactly alike. One would
think to look at them that the very foun-
dation of the earth had been ploughed up.
We passed through a part of the Indian
Reservation, where you will see once in a
while a family living in a log cabin with
a stable and a corrall and a small patch of
grain partly fenced, and many are living in
a semi-civilized condition. We reached
Garden Creek in time to hold our meeting,
which was appointed at 11 o’clock. Pres’t.
Martha Henderson and her two counselors
and also Bishop Capel were present.
	Meeting opened with singing by the choir
and the usual exercises, and the speakers
were as follows: President Elizabeth Fox,


Mary Hawks, Delilah E. Dudley, Brother
Nelson, of Pocatello, and Bishop Capel. I
must not forget to say they had a good sub-
stantial new meeting house, and a good
choir with a good organ which is a great
help in any ward.
	We continued our journey after bidding
good bye to Brother Nelson and the brethren
and sisters of Garden Creek, to Nine Mile,
where we had a much needed rest that
evening, and stayed over night at Pres’t.
Coffin’s.
	We held our final meeting at Oxford, at
2 o’clock on the afternoon of the 12th.
There were present on the stand, besides
the Stake Presidency, Pres’t. Lewis,
and Counselors Hannah Croshaw and Lynna
Fisher, Secretary Susie Homer, Bishop
Lewis and Elder Nephi Cummings. The
instructions here given were similar to
our former meetings except that views
of a political character were added, and
quite an interesting time was given to this
subject.
	Elder George Lewis who had just return-
ed from an Australian mission, gave us an
account of his labors while there and bore
a strong testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. From Oxford we proceeded on to our
several homes, with a feeling of comfort
and relief to think we had once again been
permitted to do our duty and return home
in safety, with many loving remembrances
of our faithful sisters.
	ELIZABETH FOX, Pres't.
	MARY A. HAWKS, Counselor.
	D. E. DUDLEY. Sec. pro tem.


30 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	To be gentle is the test of a lady.
	Do not be ashamed to confess your
ignorance whenever you see an opportunity
of acquiring knowledge.
	WE should look upon life as a gift of
days, only one to be used and improved at
a time, as its duties can be done and all its
burdens borne.
	PREACHING is of much avail, but
practice is far more potent. A godly life is
the strongest argument that you can offer to
the skeptic.—Hosea Ballou.
	LIBERTY cannot spring up from blood;
the sword cannot prepare the soil where it
is to grow up. Truth, light and reason
alone are the nurses of liberty.
	IN vain do they talk of happiness who
never subdued an impulse in obedience to a
principle. He who never sacrificed a pre-
sent to a future good, or a personal to a
general one, can speak of happiness only as
the blind do of colors.
	TO one who has said, “I do not believe
there is an honest, man in the world,”
another replied, “It is impossible that one
man should know all the world, but quite
possible that one should know himself.”
—Montreal Star.
	CHARACTER is not shaped by trifles any
more than marble is sculptured by puffs of
air. Only by hard struggles and conflicts
with temptation, and resolute self-mastery,
does the divine principle assert its suprem-
acy and carve its immortal loveliness into
every faculty and mood of the mind. The
sharpness of our trials and the hardness of
our lot show what we are made of.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the memory of our beloved president, Karen
P. Hanson, who departed this life May 12, 1896,
bom Feb. 3, 1825, in Albert Denmark, baptized
by Brother James Hanson. March 9, 1853, mar-
ried to Peter Hanson April 24, 1853. She left
her native land 1854. While crossing the plains
she buried her husband and two children, one an
infant a few days old.
	In 1856 she was married to James Hanson in
Salt Lake City. At the time of the move came
to Spanish Fork, and was called to be a counselor
in the first organization of the Relief Society in
the 4th Ward of Spanish Fork, 1858, until 1875,
when the several branches were merged into one
Society, she was chosen presiding teacher, and
was ever faithful and at her post for fourteen
years. When the Society was again divided into
four wards in 1891, she was chosen President
of the 4th Ward Association, which office she
held until the time of her death. She was a
faithful Saint and mother in Israel in word and
in very deed; no sacrifice was too great for her to
make for the Gospel’s sake. She had six child-
ren by her second marriage, four of whom survive
her, two sons and two daughters and twenty-one
grandchildren. Sister Hanson with Brother Han-
son honored the principle of celestial marriage in a
patriarchal family with love and devotion; with
humble dignity and honor to herself. She was a
noble representative and exponent of the princi-
ple.
	Six of Brother Hanson’s sons acted as pall
bearers.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Sister Hanson our beloved Presi-
dent has been called from our midst to a brighter
and more holy sphere,
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in her death the
loss of a faithful and energetic president, a friend
to the needy and comforter in the hour of trouble,
a devoted wife and mother and faithful Saint.
	RESOLVED, That we esteem her labors and de-
votion to the interests of Zion, as worthy the
emulation of every member of our Society.
	RESOLVED, That we condole with the bereaved
husband and children, and extend to them our
heartfelt sympathy in the loss of a loving wife
and mother, and sincere friend.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be inserted
in our records, and a copy sent to the bereaved
family, and a copy to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
MARY BAXTER			} President.
MARTHA NELSON, 		}
MARY S. CHRISTISON 	} Committee.


MRS. LYLE M. STANSBURY, of Denver,
Col., and Mrs. Helen M. Gougar, of Lafay-
ette, Ind., were among the speakers at the
National Silver Convention at St. Louis.
It is reported that Mrs W. G. White of
Durango, Col., was in attendance as a
delegate-at-large from that State. Mrs.
Gougar proposed to organize a Woman’s
Silver League. Ex.
	THE managers of the Centennial at
Cleveland, O., set July 28, apart for wo-
men, who began their program at nine
o’clock in the Armory. “Philanthropy”
was the topic discussed at ten o’clock.
Among the speakers was Mrs. M. Schwab,
representing the national council of
Jewish women. At eleven o’clock “House-
hold Economies” was the topic; Mrs. Helen
Campbell was the principal speaker. One
o’clock was club hour, and many women
prominent in women’s clubs, made short
speeches. At 12.30 Mrs. May Wright
Sewall discussed the domestic effects of the
higher education of women. Women active
in club and philanthropic work from all
parts of the country were there, and the
gathering was a notable one.	Ex.
	REV. ANNA H. Shaw delivered a lec-
ture on a recent Saturday night at Los
Angeles, the proceeds of which are to be
added to the fund for the relief of Mrs.
Phoebe Couzins. The collection netted
$1100.


THE Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill has pass-
ed at last, and an Englishman may, if he
and she wish, marry the sister of his dead
wife—often a natural and suitable thing to
do. To Americans the danger of the wife’s
dying by slow poison that this end might
be obtained, has always seemed absurdly,
remote.
	Since the news of the passage of this
bill, it has been stated that the bill has
not yet passed the House of Commons,


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
will commence her next class in OBSTETRICS
AND NURSING on Monday, October 12th,
1896, at her residence, 437 E. Second South Street,
Telephone 383. Special arrangements made when
counties send more than one person. The follow-
ing ladies from the doctor’s classes have passed
successful examinations before the State Medical
Board, and received certificates to practice:
	Annie Calvin, Eden, Weber Co., Utah.
	E. A. Froever, Huntsville, Weber Co., Utah.
	Sarah H. Reed, Woodruff, Rich Co., Utah.
	Fannie V. Schutt, Meadowvllle, Rich Co., Utah.
	Lucinda Patten, Payson, Utah Co., Utah.
	Mary Hond, Benjamin, Utah Co., Utah.
	Annie Tillotson, Ogden City, Weber Co., Utah.
	Mary A. Turner, West Jordan, Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	Carrie Johnson, Union, Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	Annie Thurber, Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah.
	Mary Dewey, Deweyville, Box Elder Co., Utah.
	Minnie Baird, Layton, Davis Co., Utah.
	Sarah White, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Mary Edwards, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Millie Reynolds, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Carrie Anderson, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Mary Higgs, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Biddie Erickson, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Emily Lish, Rockland, Oneida Co., Idaho.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with		DR. PRATT,  
		226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

LOW RATES TO THE EAST.
	Your attention is directed to the exceptionally
low rates in effect this coming season to nearly
every prominent point in the East.
	Never before has such an excellent opportunity
been afforded for a Summer Vacation Tour, or for
visiting friends in the East. We mention below a
few of the places to which greatly reduced rates
have been made. The UNION PACIFIC is the line
that will give you the best service to any of these
points.
Chicago, Ill., July 7. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Buffalo, N. Y., July 7-11. Rate—One fare for the round trip
	plus $2.00.
Washington, D. C., July 7-13. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., July 16-19. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., July 21-24. Rate—One and one-third fare on
	certificate plan.
St. Louis, Mo., July 22. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., August 16-24. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Cleveland, Ohio, August 23-30. Rate—(Probably) one fare for
	the round trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 25-27. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
St. Paul, Min., September 1-4. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip (in some cases less).
	For full information as to dates of sale and limit of tickets,
time of trains, etc., call on
CITY TICKET OFFICE 201 MAIN STREET.
D. E. BURLEY, G. A. P. D.	D. S. TAGGART, T. P. A,

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 


VOL. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER I, I896. No. 5.


CONTENTS:
	Gail Hamilton. Woman Know Thyself—Ellis
R  Shipp. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meetirg—A.
T. Hyde, Sec. Items From Parowan—E. Crane
Watson.  Message From “Deborah.” U. W. P.
C—Ellis R. Shipp, Sec. Leaves From My Journal
—Kim. The Apostle Peter Wept—Zion,s Con-
vert.
	EDITORIAL:—Ellen Curtis Spencer Clawson.
Woman’s Day At Saltair. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Spirit Whisperings—E. R. S.
The Soul’s Vision—Laura Spencer Porter.
Dawn—Stuart Steine. The Conqueror—Bessie
Chandler.


SPIRIT WHISPERINGS.

HOW impotent, feeble and weak,
	Would frail mortality be,
How unfit to cope with the world
	And its stern reality,
Without divine inspiration
	To lead and guide us aright;
To prompt each impulse and action,
	Endow with superior light.
How futile would be all effort,
	How weak the power of speech,
How vain our bravest endeavors,
	Great aims we never could reach,
Without our Father’s assistance
	To climb the wearisome hills.
To cheer, to comfort and strengthen
	Our changing, oft-flagging wills.
How poignant would be the anguish
	Found in our journey through life,
Pain, sickness, sorrow and parting,
	The cares of the world and its strife,
Without these sweet silent powers,
	Leading us into the light.
Like the fragrance of the flowers
	And breaking of day after night.
In the still haunts of the midnight,
	The silence of dawn’s purple haze,
Through busy cares of the daylight,
	We list with a silent amaze
To the voices whispering to us,
	Our spirits truly commune,
A Presence seems to imbue us
	Like the joys of roseate June.
That power of infinite mercy
	Guiding all mortals on earth.
Leading through life’s fitful journey.
	To the goal of Heavenly birth.
The whisperings of angels, and loved ones,
	In that fair mystic beyond;
The voice of the infinite Father,
	To whom our feelings respond.
E. R. S.


THE SOUL'S VISION.

	By Laura Spencer Porter.
“O Soul, look forth, and tell me now
	What seest thou?"
	"I see,” the Soul replies,
	With eager eyes,
"The morning meadows full of blossoms rare;
I fain would pluck what is so wondrous fair.
May I not put this tiresome work away?”
‘‘Not yet,” Life cries "full long the summer’s day
	Return thou to thy work.”


“Again, O Soul, look forth, and now
	What seest thou?”
"I see” the Soul replies,
	With tired eyes.
“The aged mountains stretched along the west. 
I fain would leave my work to seek their rest
The breath of pines would cool the dusty noon!”
"Stay yet!" life cries; "would’st thou give up so
	soon?
	Return thou to thy work." 
“Once more, O Soul, look forth, and'now
	What seest thou?”
“I see,” the Soul replies,
	With saddened eyes,
‘Beyond the hills the stretch of peaceful sky.”
“It is a signal, and the time draws nigh!”
Life cries. “The meaning of yon low-hung moon
is that the day is o’er, the night comes soon.
	Put thou aside thy work.”
Disturbed, the Soul looked forth, and now, 
	With troubled brow,
‘‘I fain would stay!” she cries 
	With earnest eyes.
“What matter that in yonder western sky
The moon's pale finger curveth beckoningly?
Unfinished is the work, O darkening west.
I am not ready yet to take my rest;
	I still would stay and work!”


GAIL HAMILTON

	HAMILTON, Mass., Aug. 17—Miss
Abigail Dodge (Gail Hamilton), the famous
author, died tonight at her beautiful home,
from the effects of a paralytic shock. Too
much work in mailing her last book, “The
Valley of Death,” during the hot weather
broke her strength. 
	Miss Mary Abigail Dodge, writer, bio-
grapher and controversialist, widely known
under the pen name of Gail Hamilton, Was
a native of the town in which she died,
haying been born in the year 1830. At the
age of ten years she went to Dr. Clark’s
private school in Cambridge. She was
graduated from Ipswich academy at the age
of 20. At the age of 21 she went to Hart-
ford as assistant in the Hartford high
school. She refused to take the customary
examination, but was given the position
without doing so. She was also instructor
in physical science in this school for sever-
al years and was subsequently governess in
the family of Dr. Gamaliel Bailey of
Washington D. C., editor of the National
Era, to which paper she became a con-
tributor.
	In 1865-67, she became one of the editors
of Our Young Folks, a magazine for child-
ren, published in Boston. From 1870 un-
til’a little over a year ago she had lived
most of the time with her cousin, Mrs.
James G. Blaine, in Washington. In the
course of this daily contact with the Blaine
family, Miss Dodge was led into a very
close friendship with Mr. Blaine, and at the
death of the latter she became his literary
executor, having posession of all his papers
and documents of value to her as his author-
zed biographer. She was engaged, as
frequently as her health would permit, on
Mr. Blaine’s biography from, the time of his
death until her illness of last year, and it is
thought her untiring devotion to the work
was instrumental in bringing about that
prostration.
	Since the illness that came on so sudden-
ly in the Blaine mansion in Washington,
Miss Dodge has lived very quietly in her
old home at Hamilton, Mass.
	Gail Hamilton was a frequent contributor
to prominent magazines, and her published
works written in a witty and aggressive
style, consist largely of selections from her
contributions. Her books include Country
loving and Country thinking, Gala Days,
New Atmosphere and Stumbling Blocks,
Skirmishes and Sketches, Red Letter Days
in Applethrope and Summer Rest, Wool
Gathering, Woman’s Wrongs, A Counter
Irritant, Battle of Books, Woman’s Worth
and Worthiness, Little Folks’ Life, Child
World, Twelve Miles from Lemmon,
Nursery Noonings, Sermons for the Clergy,
First Love is Best, What Think Ye of
Christ? Our Common School System, Di-
vine Guidance, Memorial to Allen W.
Dodge and Unsuppressible Book,
	in 1887 she wrote a series of letters on
civil service reform for a New York paper,-
Letters on a wide range of public questions
written for the Boston journal were widely
copied throughout the United States. .
	Miss Dodge’s one novel, First Love is
Best, had not the success which attended,
some of her other works.


WOMAN KNOW THYSELF.

	IN these days when schools, seminaries,
colleges and universities are being estab- 
lished to propagate the weal and wisdom of
the world, let us not overlook a school for
women wherein they can obtain a know-
ledge of themselves and the great scientific
laws that govern their physical organiza-
tion. This, indeed, should be made a point
of every woman’s education to fully qualify
her for the crowning mission of life, that of
motherhood.
	The old maxim “Man know thyself’’ is
equally applicable to woman. The ideal
education fits and prepares a woman, or
man either, for the practical duties of life.
Therefore, they should make a serious study
of life; its origin from its very incipiency,
that intricate problem which can only be
solved by inspirational genius; indeed she
should go back of this and consider well
the potent influences of heredity; its bear-
ing upon the physical, mental and moral
development of posterity. Of hygiene she
should be a very master. She should study
well the constituent elements of air, food
and drink, clothing and exercise, their
chemical and organic properties and their 
physiological effects upon the human or-
ganization. If the mother recognizes the
normal standard, how readily will her
quick eye detect any deviation therefrom;
when simple remedies promptly applied
will often prevent more protracted and ser-
ious maladies. These subjects should en-
gage the attention of every woman, what-


ever her life work or vocation may be.
And should she possess any desire to be-
come a professional nurse or efficient ac-
coucheur, still greater is the need of the
knowledge. If any one doubts the ever
present and growing demand for skilled
help for suffering women, especially in our
distant towns and villages, that one should
sojourn in those districts beyond the reach
of competent physicians, and listen as the
writer has listened, to the recitals of suf-
fering caused through a lack of skill and
knowledge. Also notice the results in the
failing health, the loss of strength, the
shortened lives of the masses of women;
with the broken homes. the lonely firesides,
the motherless children. Then can we
fully sense how precious are the lives of
wives and mothers, and how all-important to
prolong those lives in health and vigor.
	In many places women are through
sheer necessity forced to practice because in
the kindness of their heart they desire to
benefit their fellow creatures. All unmind-
ful of personal comfort, they answer these
untimely calls. Night or day, rain or shine
ministering to their sister women with all
the inherent gentleness of their sex, and all
too often without the least remuneration
for these wearisome services. That this
mission is one of philanthropy and unselfish
love no one can gainsay, and had she been
prepared for this labor of mercy by
thorough education in the science of Ob-
stetrics, how much greater would be the
good accomplished; then could she meet
every emergency that might arise.
	How much more fitting that woman
should receive these delicate attentions
from one of her own sex, if one can be se-
cured who is qualified for such offices.
	Knowledge and skill are the great pre-
requisites, for occasions not unfrequently
arise when life is in great peril and there is
no time to send miles away for competent
assistance. Thus is emphasized the neces-
sity of skilled help in every town and vil-
lage. Truly the educated nurse and
obstetrician should be co-eval with the race,
and found wherever there is habitation of
man.
	Ellis R. Shipp M. D.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY
MEETING.
	MINUTES of meeting held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, July 25, 1896,
Prest. M. Isabella Horne presiding Sing-
ing “For the strength of the hills” etc.,
prayer by Sister S. A. Gibson, singing
“We thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
President Horne spoke of the necessity of 
serving the Lord. It is a duty for us to 
attend these meetings as they were organiz-
ed by President Young for the benefit of 
the sisters. The Lord has a a book of re-
membrance, and how can we expect a great
reward if we neglect these opportunities.
Pleasure and vanity seem to be the order
of the day, and the spirit of the times in 
which we live. Life is real and earnest,
how much better if we can look back and be
like Paul, sure of a reward among the just.
Solomon says “For all these things we shall
be brought to judgment.” She said that 
her grandson was healed by faith and the
prayers that were offered up in his behalf.
Felt to mourn the loss of Abraham H.
Cannon, one of Zion’s best, purest and 
brightest men; he has gone to receive the
reward of his labors. We always have our

[Column 2]
Father to bless and comfort us in our sor-
row. We realize the power of Satan, but
we must not be discouraged, but be full of 
faith. Urged the sisters to bear their testi-
monies; we may ask God to help us, but 
if we do not get up and make an effort he
can not do so. She gave much more good
and timely instruction to the sisters.
	A sister felt to thank the Lord that he had 
been so kind to her in permitting her to en-
joy the many blessings of the Gospel.
	Sister Brown felt to thank the Lord for 
His blessings, and it behooves us to meet
often together. Spoke of the blessings
that we have in the Temple. The Lord
made us, is our great physician, and we 
should call on Him to heal us. 
	Sister Martha G. Young felt impressed to 
speak. She always felt a great interest in 
the Relief Society, and knew this was the 
work of God. She spoke of the great bless-
ings of the Lord to her, and said she had felt
to thank Him for the love she had for this
work. “We are sent on a mission and will
have strength to perform it. How blessed 
it is to know that He will bear us through.”
	Sister Jane James bore her testimony;
felt there was nothing else to live for than
this kingdom of God, and knew that the 
Spirit of the Lord was here. She felt to 
rejoice that she had the privilege of seeing 
the prophet Joseph.
	Sister Peterson bore her testimony of 
being healed by faith. Another sister tes-
tified, she had seen the lame walk and the
blind restored to sight, and also had been 
healed herself. She knew the Lord would 
bless those who tried to benefit others, and 
work in the Relief Society. Spoke of the 
missionaries, and the great work they had
to perform; hoped the Lord would bless us
all. A sister sang “Sweetly may the bless-
ed Spirit.”
	A sister bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel. Although she lived some 
distance, she felt that all were working in 
the same cause; spoke of the signs of the 
times, that they indicated the coming of 
the Son of God. Felt that the labor in the 
Temple gave more satisfaction than any
other, and said that inasmuch as we keep
the commandments of the Lord, we shall
be blest and receive our reward.
	Sister Morris sang “O My Father.” A
sister spoke of the great pleasure she re-
ceived from her work in the Temple. Her
husband’s father, who was dead, came to 
her in a dream and said: “You are free and
I am in a prison, why do you not do a 
work for me so that I can be liberated.”
Felt like spending her life in doing work
for the dead. She also spoke on the Word
of Wisdom, and told how her children were
all afflicted with diptheria and she told her
Father that she had kept the Word of Wis-
dom, and now she claimed His blessing.
Her children were all saved as He had 
promised.
	Sister Smith prayed for the kingdom of 
God, and bore her testimony to the truth of 
this work. Spoke of her sorrow at the 
death of Apostle A. H. Cannon, and said we 
must love one another. Asked the bless-
ing of the Lord on all. 
	Another sister spoke of the necessity of 
guarding our children to keep them from 
evil. Testified to her boy being cured of 
fits through faith; but he was left blind and 
afterwards had his sight restored. 
	Sister Barrow spoke of the time of the 
maimed and frozen emigrants, and the 
great faith needed to endure these things. 

[Column 3]
Spoke of the great care needed to guard our
young people; said we all want our child-
ren hereafter, urged the necessity of moth-
ers to teach them continually. She also
bore testimony of her children being healed
by faith, and of one son afterwards going
on a mission to New Zealand for three
years.
	Sister Zina Young spoke of her daughter-
in-law who the doctors said had a cataract
in her eyes, and who would be hopelessly 
blind, receiving her sight through faith. 
Thought the younger people should take 
an interest in the Relief Society and attend, 
so that they would be able to perform their
duties when the older sisters passed away. 
Joseph Smith said this society was organiz-
ed after the order of the Holy Priesthood.
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde said that her 
father was unable to meet with his family 
at his birthday party before his death, but 
sent a letter in which he expressed a desire
among other things, that his family should
identify themselves with the Relief Society
and other organizations that were estab-
lished in the Church, and said: “While
you are receiving information and benefit,
you at the same time, may make yourselves
useful and a blessing unto others.” He
said the Prophet Joseph Smith organized
the Relief Society for that purpose. She felt 
a just desire, in her humble way, to use 
her talents to help build up the kingdom of
God.
	A sister made a few remarks on the 
promises of the Lord, and said those who 
grind the faces of the poor will be destroyed. 
	Sister Mary P. Silver said that the M. I.
A. and other associations had grown out of 
the Relief Society. 
	Sister Hazon had a humble testimony to 
bear of the truth of the work, and prayed 
that we might all remain faithful. 
	Sister Phelps thought we all had a know-
ledge of the Lord, and hoped we might all 
give heed to the prophets and prophetesses
among us. She hoped the sisters would all 
have integrity in the exercise of suffrage,
and not any one of them sell her vote. 
	Sister Morris knew this was the work of 
God, had received many blessings from the 
Lord. Another sister felt timid but thank-
ful for the Gospel. Felt that the Lord bless-
ed her greatly. 
	Sister Horne spoke of the contemplated 
excursion to Saltair. Thought there was 
a lack of respect for the aged people, and 
also to the authorities of the Church. 
Spoke of the organization of the Society;
said Joseph the prophet organized it, and it 
can not be organized without the priest-
hood, aud would say to the sisters, do not 
organize your societies without consulting 
the bishop; and strive to have harmony in 
all that you do. 
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. 
Singing “When first the glorious light of
Truth.” Benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe. 
		A.T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


IN New York there is a free-silver club
of women to urge the election of Mr. Bryan.
It has been suggested that these women
favor silver, because speech is silver and
silence is gold. But this can scarcely be
We have every confidence that the great
and overwhelming majority of women are
for gold. Gold is the metal of the wed-
ding-ring.—Baltimore Sun.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


DAWN

Stuart Stetne.
Time after time, a mystery divine,
	The nameless wonder of the dawn, we see,
	Stealing o’er heaven and earth so silently,
	With touch so gentle and so infinite fine.
No subtlest sense could see and mark the line
	When the first gleam of breaking day, set free
	Even from the night itself, shall come to be
	More than a paler dark, where faintly shine
The stars of heaven. But clearer and more clear,
	Slowly a thousand things come forth to sight,
	And forms and tints half hidden, far and near,
Melt from gray shadow into amber light,
	Till from its ever-swelling streams are born
	The full-flushed splendors of the perfect morn.
	—Century.


THE CONQUEROR.

	Bessie Chandler
To his dead heart alone I will surrender:
	He whom death conquered, now has conquered
	me.
I held my fort like a brave defender—
	Now it stands open for the world to see.
There was a castle once, in ancient story,
	Besieged by one so noble in his fame
That when he died the people thought it glory
	To yield him what no living knight could
	claim.
So as he lay, in dented armor sleeping—
	A-hero, after wearing strife at ease—
They gathered near, and gave unto his keeping,
	Safe in his mailed hand, their castle keys.
So do I yield to-day to you my lover—
	Who died before my hard heart’s frowning
	wall,
And never knew its harshness did but cover
	Only a longing to surrender all.
Here are the keys, the last reserve is broken—
	What does it matter now, since all is past?
Let all men hear, and know that by this token
	I loved you only, loved you first and last.
	—Scribner's Magazine.


ITEMS FROM PAROWAN.

Editor Exponent:
	Yesterday and today we had a royal
feast in the way of meetings. Our Relief
Society Conference convened yesterday, and
reports of a commendable nature were
heard from all the wards but one, and
many praisworthy subjects were treated
upon by the brothers and sisters, besides
the testimonies that were borne to the divin-
ty of the restored Gospel.
	Today all attendants at Primary meeting 
were more than repaid for their trouble,
the children far excelled our best anticipa-
tions; every part was appropriate and well
rendered, and those little ones unwittingly
taught older ones many good lessons.
	A very touching occurrence has over-
shadowed our townspeople with a sadness
that would be almost more than could be
endured were we not willing to acknow-
ledge a Providential care in all things; it is
the demise of one of our Primary counselors
Sister Eliza Gurr Micklesen, a lovely wo-
nan just 36 years old, the mother of eight
children seven of whom survive her, and
the wife of Joseph Mickleson. A more de-
voted couple to each other and their child-
ren is very rarely found. From the time
her beautiful baby was born, her condition
was extremely critical though sister Eliza


realized it not, and was full of hope to the
last. She tarried but three days with her
loved ones, dying Aug. 2.
	Three weeks before her death her seven-
teen year old daughter was shown in a
dream, seven nights in succession, the birth
of her baby brother, the family surround-
ing the death bed in prayer and supplication
for the mother's life, and even the white
casket being covered with wreaths and
bouquets by her, just as it took place on that
solemn occasion.
	Most people are convinced that no earthly
skill, not even the faith and prayers of the
priesthood and loved ones (which never
ceased) could keep her on this earthly
sphere, for as was remarked by one dear
sister today, “she was doubtlessly needed to
work in that great Primary over the river
of Time.”
	The husband and children have nothing
to regret in regard to their course during
her life; so noble, considerate and true
were they all in every respect. What a
solace this must be and how intensified will
be the happiness of the meeting of this ex-
emplary family when they unite to part no
more! Until then, one fond farewell Sis-
ter Eliza. 
	E. CRANE WATSON.


[Column 1]
MESSAGE FROM “DEBORAH.”

	MRS. ZERELDA G. WALLACE, whose
79th birthday, August 6, was celebrated in
Indiana on “franchise day”, is known in
W. C. T. U. ranks as “Deborah”, because
of the wisdom of her counsel during the
many years she devoted herself to woman
suffrage and Temperance work. The follow-
ing message was written by Mrs. Wallace
for the “franchise number” of the Indian-
apolis Organizer.
			CATARACT, JUNE 18, 1896.
To my Sisters of the W. C. T. U., who are
	working for temperance and the freedom
	of women:
	Learning from our dear Miss Reed that
you will observe the 6th of August for the
furtherance of these two great movements,
I feel moved by the Spirit, as our dear
friends the Quakers would say, to send a
word of greeting and encouragement. Al-
though a disabled soldier, my hopes are as
bright and my interest as great as it ever
was, in the ultimate triumph of these great
reforms. We all should rejoice at the ad-
vance and the present outlook for woman’s
progress. Her freedom lies at the base of
all true racial growth and development. If
it be true, as Mr. Gladstone and many other
wise men have said, that America is to be-
come the world’s educator in free institu-
tions, it is time that the ballot should be
put in the hands of all its citizens, without
regard to sex limitations. Let it be the de-
termined effort and persistent purpose of all
women to work to this end.
	Yours for the uplifting of Humanity,
					Z. G. WALLACE.
	The familiar ring of the words recalls the
days between 1880 and ’84, when it was
my privilege to be associated in suffrage
work with “Mother” Wallace, as the
younger women are wont to call her rever-
ently. Richly has she earned the endear-
ing title, for she has literally “mothered”
three sets of children. And, furthermore,
to quote her own plea most frequently
made, has thereby “earned her right to the
ballot.”

[Column 2]
In those days she was keeping house in
the old homestead, looking well to the ways
of her household, and to the upcoming of
four grandchildren left to her care at the
death of a beloved daughter. To avoid
taking her away from home so frequently,
the executive committee of the State Suf-
frage Association met in her old-fashioned
parlors, and occasionally the individual
members thereof made their way thither
with perplexing questions, and came away 
with their burdens lightened.
	One of the most impressive pictures in
my memory is of the times, when business
disposed of, this noble woman, “strong, 
steady and serene”, philosophized concern- 
ing the bearing of woman suffrage upon 
national and human progress. Matronly
in figure, sitting there in her rocking-chair,
industriously knitting on a half grown
stocking, she would have delighted the eye
of an artist seeking a model typical of
feminine personality and occupation; yet
her strong features and massive head, with
its crown of beautiful curling gray hair,
which she wore simply parted in front and
cut short at the neck, always reminded me .
of the portraits of the ablest early American
statesmen. Intensely devoted to her
country, loving humanity as a mother
loveth, unswerving in her belief in an over-
ruling, beneficent Providence, she gathered 
lessons from the history of civilization and
religion, and then looked into the far future
and saw America free and righteous, ex-
alted among the nations.
	What an inspiration she was! Deborah,
the wise, the prophetess!
	Her enthusism and diligence were a
standing example and reproof to us who
grew tired and discouraged during an
“amendment campaign.” Instant in sea-
son, no effort too arduous, no means too
humble. She enlightened the woman who 
served in her kitchen, and through her
reached the brothers and cousins who could
vote. She gave suffrage tracts to her
butcher and to her grocer. She was not
offensive in her proselyting, nor did she
offer tracts with an apology. She took it
for granted that men were interested in
current public questions, and would be glad
to read. She marked her WOMAN’S JOUR-
NALS and mailed them to friends, with direc-
tions to read and to send on and on. As a
public speaker she was much in demand,
and she responded willingly, yet was ever
ready to give way to others. Later on
when the grandchildren had flitted their 
several ways, she gave up her house
and went into the lecture field. She
attended conventions both Woman Suffrage
and W. C. T. U., addressed legislatures
and traveled from state to state, sparing not
herself, until one day the silver cord was
suddenly strained, and she was compelled
to retire from active service.
	No doubt she still finds ways to work for
Woman Suffrage, for she often used to de-
clare with solemn emphasis, "It is a part
of my religion.”—Woman's Journal.


MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER was
eighty-four years old on August 26.
	“At the National Council of Education at
Buffalo, N. Y., one of the most interesting
papers was on schoolroom hygiene. The re-
port was based on papers received from teach-
ers all over the country who have made a
special study of the hygienic conditions of
their own schoolrooms."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparei[-]
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBER 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
ELLEN CURTIS SPENCER CLAWSON.
	IT is very painful to be called to part
with those we have known and loved so
many years, and with whom we have been
closely associated in our life and labor.
The sister whose demise we now record
was a dear friend of bye-gone days, and her
death calls up many reminiscences and ex-
periences of the past. A true and sincere
friend at all times and in all places was
Sister Ellen C. Clawson; her life has been a
noble example from her childhood until her
spirit took its flight from earth to a brighter
realm. Her last moments, just previous to
her departure, were singularly calm and
peaceful. One of her daughters remarked
to the writer that she was quite sure her
mother had an escort to accompany her to
the spirit world.
	Sister Clawson's death occurred Aug. 25,
1896. Her husband and all her children were
gathered around her bedside, where she lay
perfectly conscious and, as ever during her
life, thoughtful of every one but herself.
Her faculties of mind were bright and active
until the last when her beautiful gentle
spirit departed from this world to join the
innumerable hosts of Saints who have
gone before.
	Sister Clawson was of New England
parentage. Her grandfather, Daniel Spenc-
er served in the Revolutionary war; her
father Orson Spencer, was college bred and
distinguished for his scholarly attainments.
He was a Baptist minister prior to his be-
coming a Latter-day Saint. Her mother,
Catherine Curtis, was also of Puritan de-
scent. As a child and a young girl Miss
Spencer endeared herself to a host of young
people to whom she has always been
strongly attached, though many of them
have passed on before her. She was bap-
tized at nine years of age in the Mississippi
River at Nauvoo. At the time of the exo-
dus from Illinois, her mother who had
never been accustomed to any hardships
(until leaving her home in the East) was
taken sick and died a martyr to the cruel
persecutions of the Saints. The eldest
daughter immediately assumed the duties
of a little mother to the children of the
household; and all through that toilsome
journey to the encampment on the Missouri
River (now called Florence) she faithfully
performed her duty for her father and the
little ones.
	About six months after the death of Mrs.

[Column 2]
Spencer, Elder Orson Spencer was called
on a mission to Great Britain and the little
daughter took charge of the family crossing
the plains, assisted by such help in domestic
cares as could be furnished by those who
were like herself journeying towards the
valley of the Great Salt Lake. Here she
fulfilled the same duties until the return of
her father from his mission to Europe.
	In March 1850 Miss Spencer was united
in marriage to Hiram B. Clawson a very
popular young man in Salt Lake at that
time, and since then well known here and
elsewhere in mercantile and business affairs.
He has been for several years past bishop
of the Twelfth ward of this city. Mrs. 
Clawson has been the mother of fourteen
children, nine of whom are still living, and
she has numerous grandchildren. She was
almost idolized by her own family, which
cannot be wondered at when one considers
how particularly unselfish her whole life
has been. Although extremely diffident in
all public affairs, yet because of her intense
devotion to her religion, she accepted a
position that brought her into prominence
in women’s organizations. In April, 1879,
she was elected to preside over the Primary
Association in the Twelfth ward, and June
19, 1880, she was called and set apart at a
Conference held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, to preside over the Primary Asso-
ciation in the Salt Lake Stake. This of-
fice she has filled with honor and to the
entire satisfaction of all interested parties
ever since. She had a particular gift in this
direction, and with her Counselors has
traveled in this Stake, organizing and en-
couraging the labors of the sisters and the
advancement of the children as much as
possible for sixteen years. She is greatly
beloved by the children all through this
Stake of Zion, and wherever she is known.
	Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson was a member of
the Reapers Club from its first organization
and a regular attendant until her delicate
health prevented, but came occasionally
since her first serious illness, always indeed
whenever she felt able. To the writer she
often spoke of her interest in the club work
and her desire to keep in touch with the
topics of the times, and to make such ad-
vancement along all lines as would better
qualify her to do good to all humanity. In
the best sense of the word Sister Clawson
was a true philanthropist and possessed that
sweet charity “that thinketh no evil.”
Looking over the large list of names of
members of the Reapers Club, we find that
Ellen C. Clawson is the first one whose
death has caused a vacancy, out of about
sixty names that have been enrolled since
it was first organized, Oct. 3, 1892.
	Her loss will be deeply felt in the commu-
nity where she has labored so faithfully, as
well as by her own particular friends and
family. The writer herself feels deeply the
loss of her society and friendship, but fully
realizes that her lovely character, her pure
life, her integrity to the Gospel, have en-
titled her to the exaltation for which she
lived and sacrificed, and that her joy now is
beyond expression. Jesus said “It hath not
entered into the heart of man to conceive
the glory our Father hath in store for them
that love him.”
	Therefore, we should all be reconciled
when one of our number departs who has
“fought the good fight and kept the faith,”
knowing she has worked out for herself "a
far more exceeding and eternal weight of
glory,” in the celestial kingdom.

[Column 3]
"THOU art not with the frozen dead
	Whom earth in the earth we lay,
While the bearers softly tread,
	And the mourners kneel and pray;
From thy semblance dumb and stark.
	The soul has taken its flight—
Out of the finite dark, 
	Into the Infinite light."


WOMAN’S DAY AT SALTAIR.

	THE Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
and the Women of the State arranged for an
excursion to Saltair on Tuesday, August
20. The affair was in the hands of a com-
mittee of women represented by Mrs. M. I.
Horne, President of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake, and Mrs. E. B. Wells Pre-
sident of the State Suffrage Association. The
day was not very satisfactory even though the
Carnival of Madrid was well advertised,
and consequently many who had intended
to patronize the ladies did not attend; how-
ever there was quite a good-sized gathering
and a rather pleasing program of exercises,
though one of the distinguished gentlemen
who was expected to speak disappointed
the audience by his absence, Judge W. H.
King. The exercises commenced at 5 p.
m. General John Q. Cannon acting as
Master of Ceremonies, called the assembly
to order and announced prayer by Sister
Zina D. H. Young, who then offered an
eloquent prayer, and next came the Pream-
ble and Sentiments by ladies in different
parts of the state, a part of which were
read by General Cannon in a clear distinct
voice, followed by the Governor whose re-
marks to the women of the state are given
here.
 PREAMBLE.
	IN all the years past since the pioneers enter-
ed this then barren, desert valley, years full
of startling episodes and thrilling incidents,
woman has fulfilled her part of the pro-
gramme equally with man, and has emulat-
ed the noble example of the heroic pilgrim
mothers of New England, in bearing the
burdens and sharing the toil of the men
who have made the “desert blossom as the
rose,” and after many years of patient
struggle and endurance have at last suc-
ceeded in establishing a great common-
wealth, ranking equal with other states in
this free Republic, aud in one respect
surpassing all, except Wyoming and Colo-
rado, in according to women equal suffrage
with men. Thus has a new era opened up
for woman. She has now entered into her
land of promise; the eyes of the world are turn-
ed hither to see what the women of Utah will
do with this boasted right, the ballot. We
must not disappoint our friends or gratify
our opponents by our indifference or neglect,
but show our true patriotism in this hour
of our country’s greatest need. We should
prove worthy the sublime confidence re-
posed in us by those valiant men, who
championed our cause in the memorable
Constitutional Convention of 1895.
	We cannot too strongly urge upon wo-
men voters the grave responsibility
devolving upon them in the present condi-
tion of affairs in our state and nation, and
entreat them to come proudly forward and
take part in the struggle for right now be-
ing agitated, by casting their votes and us-
ing their utmost influence to maintain the
principles of justice, freedom and liberty,
our noble inheritance from our revered fore-


[Column 1]
fathers, according to their honest convic-
tions of right and wrong.
SENTIMENTS
	THE sacred right, but at the same .time
privilege, of the franchise has been obtained
by the women of Utah.
	We are watched by three classes of men
and women. By the cynic who expects
that we will make but a poor use or, per-
chance, no use at all of it, by the timid
women who fear for “the consequences”,
and by earnest women of many states who
look to us to vindicate their hopes and as-
pirations. And deeper down in the heart
of things there is the great need for the
good, pure resolute women of these United
States to rise in their might and help right
the deplorable condition of our country!
Let every woman voter in Utah feel her
responsibility and study the questions at
issue, and then vote her convictions.

	WOMAN’S domestic qualities will in no
sense deteriorate because of her political
equalities; she will lose none of her woman-
ly wifely attributes; her influence will be
exerted to purify the political atmosphere
and secure a rigorous enforcement of all
just laws, and an equally prompt repeal of
obnoxious ones.
	The female pioneer element, which is
largely represented in this state, now as in
days of old, developes the noblest womanly
characteristics, and already is observed a
marked independence of action and charact-
er which is seldom found in older civiliza-
tions where fashion and social distinction
rule with autocratic sway.

	The franchise is one of the highest privi-
leges granted to the individual under a free
government. If to vote is one of the great-
est privileges, is it not then a sacred duty
which no woman who desires the sanctity
of her home protected, the right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness, sus-
tained and preserved inviolate, both of her
loved ones and herself, will neglect to per-
form? It is now an imperative obligation
devolving upon the women of Utah, to en-
courage, teach and sustain each other in
voting intelligently for honest efficient
officers, who will labor unswervingly for
the best interest of the people trusting
them with the affairs of state, county or
city. 
	Whether women purify the ballot or not
remains to be seen; but most certainly they
will add an element tending to greater per-
fection, the same as exemplified in the
family, which is the unit of government.
	A one sided organization only half per-
forms the work; when the other half is
added it rounds out into a perfect whole.
	If the study of politics is the main work of
women’s clubs from now until November,
a more determining vote for the good
of the whole country will be polled than
ever before in Utah. Women all rise to
the hight of your privileges!

	A victory gained for a great principle if
barren of results, is more to be deplored
than defeat; for defeat leads to renewed
effort, while victory followed by apathy
and indifference, is like Dead Sea Fruit and
the Apples of Sodom. If the women of
Utah who one year ago were earnestly de-
manding and striving for the right of suf-
frage, now sit down supinely and fold their
hands and say, “We have the ballot, we

[Column 2]
will vote but beyond that will take no fur-
ther interest in politics”, they are not
worthy of the rights of citizenship in a
growing state or great nation.  
	The acceptance of the position and privi-
leges of a citizen carries with it the obliga-
tions and responsibilities of citizenship, and
in my opinion, it is the duty of every wo-
man, not only to vote, but inform herself
on the vital issues of the day, and acquaint
herself thoroughly with the great principles
that uplift and benefit humanity, and un-
derlie all correct legislation, good govern-
ment and true prosperity. Having done
this for herself, I believe she is then bound
by her duty to the state and nation to dis-
seminate those principles, and to see, as far
as she can assist them, that all other women
within her reach, vote and understand what
they are voting for. It is only through the
efforts and influence of women alive to
their duties and responsibilities that the
state or nation will be benefited by wo-
man’s enfranchisememt.

	I think we have had a great privilege
granted us in having the franchise at such
an important time, when great political
questions are confronting us as at the pre-
sent. When we as citizens of this great
Republic, will feel in duty bound to take
part in the great issues that lie before us;
and may we do so conscientiously according
to our convictions of right, and strive with
all diligence to understand our duties and
the great responsibilities that rest upon us
as citizens of this great Republic, as well as
of our own fair state of Utah.
	We know we are on the eve of a great
financial crisis; its importance we can only
realize in part; how it will end the Lord
only knows. We must use the wisdom of
Solomon, aided by the Spirit of the Lord to
direct us that we may be on His side, then
we need not fear what the result would be.
	I often think of the reply that President
Joseph Smith made to Senator Douglas
when he asked him how he managed to
govern the people. He said he taught
them correct principles and let them govern
themselves.
	That is what we want today, to under-
stand the correct principles that underlie
our Government. It is this lack of know-
ledge with us as a people that I fear at this
time when there is so much at stake. We
have never had such a responsibility resting
upon us before, as the privilege of voting
for the highest official of this great Com-
monwealth; and may we give this question
and every other, that due deliberation, that
we may vote intelligently upon all ques-
tions that come before us, even holding it
as a sacred trust that can be neither bought
nor sold for any consideration. And may
we always have reason to be grateful to
those who worked so faithfully that we
might enjoy political freedom.
GOVERNOR HEBER M. WELLS.
	We are making history rapidly What-
ever future centuries may bring forth, they
must concede to the Nineteenth, that it
revolutionized the world industrially, polti-
ically and religiously.
	Freedom of thought and action was
never so great as now, the yoke of religious
creed or despotic government never so far
removed or successfully repelled, the main-
tainance of human liberties never so well
sustained.
	What wonder then, that this progressive

[Column 3]
age of human enlightenment should witness
the breaking forth of women from the
chrysalis of exclusive domesticity into ac-
tive participation in Government affairs,
and that man’s assumption of the right to
vote and govern, without consultation with
his equal and natural partner and compan-
ion, should be relegated to the past.
	The women of Utah are to be congratu-
lated upon their accession to the rights of
American citizens. To attain these rights
Herculean work has been performed; wo-
men, themselves, as well as men have had
to be converted to the cause, strong antipa-
thies and prejudices have had to be over-
come in both, and only the most persistent
and determined effort could have accom-
plished so much in comparatively so short
a time.
	The credit of this great work belongs to
the women of Utah, for whom no words
of commendation can be misplaced. Their
reward is great for they now enjoy many
privileges that are vouchsafed to but com-
paratively few women of our country.
They will not be content with this, how-
ever, as their cause is too great to permit of
their resting satisfied with merely local
advantages—it is the enfranchisement of
half the Nation, the better half—they are
contending for, and no doubt, the influence
of the women of Utah will be felt in behalf
of “Woman Suffrage” until the last woman
in this broad land shall have been enfran-
chised.
	History will record you among the pion-
eers of this great work, and the memory of
your good deeds will live after you.
	After the Governor’s address W. C. Dun-
bar delighted the audience with selections
upon his Highland bagpipes, and was
warmly applauded. Senator Frank J.
Cannon made a thrilling speech in which
he dwelt strongly upon the present condi-
tion of the masses of the people here and
in the United States, and paid a glowing
tribute to the women of Utah, their cour-
age, integrity and patient endurance of
toil and hardship, and cited incidents in
the life and experience of the General
President of the Relief Society, making a
pathetic picture and extoling her virtues
and excellence of character. No greater or
more eloquent compliment could be paid
to a mother in Israel. We expected his
remarks in brief to publish, but hope now
to have them for the next issue of the
paper.
	Miss Webster’s skipping-rope dance
came next and was very pretty and grace-
ful and in perfect time. Miss Webster is
quite a favorite wherever she appears.
The bagpipes were introduced again and
were as welcome as at first. Then followed
a further reading of sentiments and resolu-
tions.

	THIS is our sentiment: Woman, the
equal of man, and the crowning glory of
the celestial kingdom.

	I think that as women are amenable to
the laws of our state and bear equally the
responsibilities with men, woman should
also share in all the privileges accorded to
men, not only in voting, but in holding
offices of honor, emolument and trust suit-
able to their sex.

	IN my judgment the women of Utah,
having been given the elective franchise,
would do well to read the editorial and


[Column 1]
political portions of our own state press,
which not only has the welfare of the peo-
ple of the state in view, but is as patriotic
as any portion of our national press; and
they should endeavor to post themselves
upon the questions that are to be settled by
the ballot, and in voting should be guided
more by judgment and principle than by
partisanship.

	FOR a long time I have been in favor of
suffrage. I believe it will be the means of
elevating us. Woman can accomplish
more than man if she is prepared for the
work. She can have statesmen born and
raised under her influence so that they can
become a power in the land. I believe
there is a need for such men, and it can
never be accomplished while women are
considered inferior to men. I don’t see
why we cannot understand the political
situation of our country. I am convinced
that if we are united we can do a great
deal of good towards elevating our race.

	HAVING, after a long struggle, gained
the right of suffrage, I think it becomes
our duty as citizens of the new state of
Utah, to arouse from our lethargy and use
all our energy and the intelligence God has
given us to study the best way to use this right
not only in this state but also in the nation,
and also use our influence in getting them
to see the necessity of the same.
	Statistics show that a large percent of the
women in the United States are self-sup-
porting.
	They are expected to pay taxes and help
support the Government. This being the
case should they not take an interest in
national affairs? “Taxation without repre-
sentation is tyranny.”
	I would like to ask you gentlemen
and ladies, if the franchise rightly used,
will not tend to morally revolutionize our
government and place it on that grand un-
selfish, unintriguing political platform that
was presented to us by our forefathers.

	WE ought to be alive to the best interest
of the country. We want silver restored to
its full value (sixteen to one) that we can
pay our debts from the products of our
farm's without selling real estate. We
ought to let all other considerations be as
minor ones until that is accomplished, then
see that our laws are carried out, or some
of them mended, and not leave the law in
the hands of men that will not carry them
out, there are thousands of cases where
justice sleeps, and I for one am tired of it.
Can we as women sit by and see such out-
rages commited and not say anything about
it? I say out with such men!
	Let us have honorable men and women
for our officers, and see to it that we get
them. Don’t let us shirk our duties. See
that all women are registered and vote, and
also attend our Primaries. Keep abreast of
the times; stand for our rights and do not
be daunted. These are some of my views
also the most of the women that I am ac-
quainted with. They seem to be waking
up—the women of Utah—to their rights.

	EVERY person of observation who has
noticed the great strides every nation is
making in more humane and liberal govern-
ment. has also noticed the rapid advance-
ment of women throughout the world.
Co-eval with all greatness among nations,
comes the God-given liberty of women.

[Column 2]
Just as the misty clouds of superstition and
fogyism about woman’s sphere gives way
to the scearch-light of truth, will she take
her place politically, and will not only take
her place, but man will willingly recognize
it, learning at last that all their interests are
one. Now that equal suffrage has been
granted to the women of Utah, the obsta-
cles raised by our opponents have all melted
away. Everything works in harmony, and
all seem perfectly satisfied. Ladies who
declared they would never exercise the
franchise, are today enthusiastic over the
great questions that are holding the atten-
tion of the nation, and are ready to cast
their ballots. I see nothing discouraging,
but believe the little stone of Woman Suf-
frage set rolling here in the West will yet fill
the whole earth.

	I think the status of the women in the
new state is very good and is destined to
place woman upon the high elevation des-
tined by her Creator; nor will the true
woman of the state fill less her domestic
relations as a wife and mother because she
has a right estimate of her position and new
responsibilities. She will preserve her
self respect and dignity in her new position
as in her home life, and seek with true
nobility to refine and purify the political
and moral atmosphere.
	The influence of woman is the same
everywhere. Her condition influences the
morals and character of the people in the
community of which she is a member. The
granting of the franchise to women shows
the political status of the people. The wo-
men of the new state asked many times for
this great boon ere it was again bestowed;
and having received it again, I have no
fears that she will abuse this great blessing,
nor transcend the proper limits of womanly
dignity, but by study and thought prove
herself the intellectual peer of her brother
man. Her education is extended; her
knowledge is increased; she is proving her
capabilities to grasp and understand, and
discuss the leading questions of the day as
intelligently as the majority of the other
sex. In many cases her conceptions are
clearer, while her opportunities are increas-
ing and her field of labor widening, I feel
assured she will prove herself equal to the
occasion. I think the women of the new
state will prove to our opponents and the
world at large, that we do appreciate the
franchise, by studying the political issues
of the day and voting for men and measures
that are best calculated to advance the in-
terests of all mankind. Therefore, in my
humble opinion, the granting of the fran-
chise or equal suffrage, has raised the status
of the women In the new state materially
and will eventually prove a great blessing
not only to herself, but to future genera-
tions. Let the good work go on until all
women shall receive the same blessing that
the women of Utah now enjoy, by using
and not abusing this great boon.
RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS, The constitution of the state
provides that the rights of citizens of the
state of Utah to vote and hold office shall
not be denied or abridged on account of
sex; and
	WHEREAS, Experience has taught us
that by woman’s entering into the profes-
sions of law, medicine and teaching, those
professions have been raised to a higher
place; that by her admission to the colleges
and universities of our country the moral

[Column 3]
tone of our institutions of learning has been
elevated and the standard of scholarship ad-
vanced; that by the product of her brain
and pen the progress of the whole human 
race has been promoted; that in the limited
opportunities offered her she has demonstrat-
ed her capacity to grasp governmental
questions and her ability to solve them; to
be equal to that of her male contemporaries;
and
	WHEREAS, Woman possesses in a very
high degree the power to reform, ennoble
and purify every organization of a religious,
social or political nature; now, therefore, be
it
	RESOLVED, That it is the duty of every
woman of the state possessing the requisite
qualifications, to enter into active political
work, to the end that our new privileges
may be exercised in behalf of pure govern-
ment.
	RESOLVED, That we agree to identify
ourselves with the political party that is the
best exponent of our political ideas, and
that we will participate in the Primaries and
Conventions of our respective parties as well
as vote upon election day that our voice
may be heard in formulating our party’s
policy, and that candidates may be nomi-
nated worthy of our support.
	RESOLVED, That we extend our hearty
greetings to our sister voters of the neigh-
boring states of Wyoming and Colorado and
we express the desire that ere long the
people of our whole nation may recognize 
the inestimable blessings conferred upon the 
body politic by the admission of man and
his helpmate, woman, to equal political
privileges.
	(Signed.)
ELIZABETH J. MCFARLANE.
MRS. J. FEWSON SMITH,
ETIZABETH M. PRICE,
				Committee.
FINAL RESOLUTION.
	RESOLVED, That the women of Utah
take the heartiest interest in all organiza-
tions tending to ameliorate the condition of 
women throughout the world.
	That they recognize the great education-
al work of the Federation of Clubs, and will
as far as they are able, co-operate with
them.
	That they sympathize with the persecut-
ed inhabitants of Armenia, and call upon
the nation to show their interest by gener-
ous contributions to a starving nation.
	Mrs. Elizabeth J. McFarlane was intro
duced and recited a very appropriate
selection in a most pleasing style. The
address was entitled “To Our Brothers.’’


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake will hold their Quarterly Conference
on Saturday, September 19, in the Assem-
bly Hall in this city, meetings commencing
as usual at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. It is
desired there should be as large an atten-
dance as possible from the members of the
society throughout the city and county
and that each Presidemt be present, for
send an authorized representative. The
public are cordially invited.
	The Woman’s Co-operative Store has
been removed from Main St. to the Nauvoo
Building, on First South St., West, where
they have commodious sales-rooms, and


have also been purchasing new good; and
are very desirous of the patronage of the
ladies. The store makes a speciality of its
millinery and of burial clothing. The sis-
ters of the Relief Society and others would
do well to call before purchasing elsewhere,
as it is hoped the store will be a success
even though the times are a little hard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	IN response to the kindly invitation of
Mrs. Rachel Miller, the members of the
Press Club met at her residence, July 31,
1896 President E. B, Wells called the
meeting to order and prayer was offered by
Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox. The roll was called
and presence signified by poetic sentiments.
Lengthy minutes of the interesting June
meeting were read and approved. Mis-
cellaneous business being next in order the
president reported the completion of pay-
ment to the Federation, and proposed the
name, of Mrs. Mary J. Lambert, and Mrs.
R. S. Miller the name of Martha Miller as
members of the U. W. P. C. The motion
was put and carried. In accordance with
our president’s oft repeated wish that our
club should have a critic, Mrs. E. J. Mc-
Vicker was proposed by Miss S. L. Monroe
as critic. The motion was carried
unanimously. The nominee very modest-
ly expressed thanks for the honor, and said
sheould try to exercise discretion in this
duty, and desired all to feel free to criticise
the critic. A discussion then followed on
the pronunciation of the word “program”,
and all were advised to “look it up.” Mrs.
L. D. Alder then read an original poem en-
titled “Left unfinished.” President E. B.
Wells then read a letter from Susan B.
Anthony advising the Utah women as to
their duties in voting, and the advisability
of their holding office. Mrs. I. C. Brown
entertained the club with reminiscences of
Washington life, dwelling upon the social
and domestic qualities of President Cleve-
land and his beautiful wife and lovely
children. Mrs. L. S. Wilcox, by request,
read a poem written by Dr. Orielle Curtis
entitled “Friends of the Press Club.” The
meeting was then adjourned for one month
and closed with prayer by E. W. Hyde.
	After this our hostess and her fair
daughters served most delicious refresh-
ments, flitting in and out of the brilliantly
lighted parlors, in their airy summer cos-
tumes, making a picture long to be remem-
bered.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP. Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

Friday, Nov. 22, 1895
	AFTER breakfast carriages were ordered for
the Roman Forum. We were to tread the
ruins, “Each memorable spot, where Ro-
mulus stood, Tully spoke and Caesar fell.”
We left the carriages at the Capitol, which
is 160 ft. above sea level, by the ground
staircase. La Cordounata, which in its
present form dates from 1536; at its foot
are two lions of Egyptian porphyry; at its
head the colossal statues of Castor and Pol-
lux; beyond these the sculptures, “mis-
named” the Trophies of Marius, and the
statue of Constantine, and his son, the
open space here, the ancient Intermoun-
train where Brutus harangued the people
after the murder of Caesar. In the center

[Column 2]
the only perfect ancient equestrian statue is
of Marcus Aurelius. On the right is the
palace of the Conservatori, on the left the
Museum of the Capitol, both designed by
Michael Angelo. The Palace of the Sena-
tor is on the site of the Tabularium, a build-
ing used tor the state Archives, and is a
combination of the vaulted roof and the
arch; the fountain at the foot is adorned
with statues of the river-gods, the Tiber
and the Nile. The tower contains the great
bell, rung only to announce the carnival, or
the death of a Pope.
	Descending on the south side, we reach
the Roman Forum, an open place where
Courts were held. The street “Via Lacra”
divided the Temples from the public mar-
ket place. Mr. Mc V. gave us a lecture
upon Roman Archaeology, beginning with
Ancient Rome and the Hellenic Period,
until the present time. Enough of the
ruins remain to tell of the splendor of the
buildings; there are massive stone remains
of the orator’s tribune, erected by Julius
Caesar, facing the Capitol is the Temple of
Caesar, near which Caesar had erected a
new oratorical tribune; from this tribune at
the funeral of the murdered dictator, Mark
Antony pronounced his celebrated ora-
tion.
	We stood where Virginius stood when he
killed his daughter to save her honor. We
were deeply interested in Plazza Ara Coeli.
On sight of the Temple of Jupiter Capito-
lenus, the tradition is, Augustus erected an
altar to commemorate the prophecy of the
Delphic Sibyl, respecting the birth of
Jesus.
	On the central spot where the flight of
steps leading to the Capitol joins the flight
of steps leading to the Church, on these
steps, when a Pagan Temple, the priests
(133 B C) thrust out Tiberius Gracchus,
who sought sanctuary here, and was killed
by the Patrician mob. Fifteen hundred
years later, the Temple had become a
Christian Church, the priests barred the
doors against Rienzi, who died there cover-
ed by a hundred wounds. Julius Caesar is
said to have descended these steps on his
knees after his victories in Gaul and Brit-
ian. One could spend months agreeably
in these magnificent ruins. While looking
at the Colosseum “The great Flavian
Amphitheatre of Imperial Rome,” one
friend remarked to me “What mattered it
that all this splendor was buried under the
ashes of Vesuvius?”
	We returned to our carriages. I am al-
ways interested in people, during our drives
the people, beggars and donkeys amuse me
immensely. The streets too are pictur-
esque, with their washing hanging from
the windows; while I would not adopt the
custom, I admire it here. Our destination
was the Vatican Palace, on Vatican Hill.
(The hill not included in Ancient Rome.)
The Vatican has been the official residence
and palace of the Popes since the 15th Century.
The outside does not impress one as splen-
did. We secured tickets of admission,
passed the guards, (Italian solders) whose
costume and hats with feathers drooping
over the right shoulder, I had only seen in
Opera or a picture, up the immense flight
of steps to the entrance of this remarkable
building with its 11,000 rooms, fronting
and inclosing twenty different courts; it
contains much architectural display in the
building on the courts, and in the interior
of halls and galleries, and is noted for its
wall paintings, which we were to see first.

[Column 3]
Crossing one long hall and going to an
open window, we had a fine view, and
breathed in the delicious odors from the
gardens of the Pope; the walks were broad
and lined with flowers; there the orange
and citron grew, the grounds were so
beautiful and bright, we judged he must
pass much time in them and hoped to catch
sight of him, but they told us, now, he is
seldom seen there, being too feeble; his
kitchen garden (as they call them in Eng-
land) showed perfect order, and every good 
thing growing.
	In all the rooms were artists busy; I
lingered near one who seemed fond of
copying Fra Angelico’s celestial creatures;
they are gorgeous in robes of gold and
green, in gold and scarlet with radiant
wings, their faces turned heavenward, and
holding trumpets, and shown sometimes
seem to be sounding the key-note. He is
the only artist, so an Italian told me, who
paints on a gold background; he with
Raphael and Murillo, are called the “Paint-
ers of Heaven” but Angelico’s required
study ere I saw their extreme beauty. We
passed rapidly along the Sistine Chapel,
built in 1473; it is 133 ft, long and 45 ft.
wide. The side walls are adorned by such
artists as Perugins, Signorelli, Potticelli
and Ghirlandajo, a Florentine; one of his
was “The calling of the Apostles on the
Lake of Genesarath.”
	The entire ceiling is covered with the
renowned frescoes of Michael Angelo, be-
ginning with the Creation of Light, the
Sun and Moon, Separating the waters from
the land, Creation of Adam and Eve, the
fall and expulsion, the Deluge etc., the
angels Jessie, Asa, Esechias, Josiah, Zara-
bable, Hosea and others. On the altar is
his great fresco “The Last Judgment”,
which he painted many years later and
which occupied him seven years. It is
considered marvelous. All the pictures
have suffered from dampness and incense.
My first impression was disappointment,
but they handed me a mirror which
brought the paintings nearer, and they
began to look beautiful and interesting.
The Loggie of Raphael, are corridors dec-
orated by Raphael and his pupils, “Joseph
interpreting Pharaoh’s Dream”, Raphael
and Ginlio Romano, “Temptation of
Adam and Eve” by the same, “Moses
saved from the Nile”, “Meeting of Jacob
and Rachel” by Raphael and other pupils.
The Stanza, are a series of rooms with
frescoes by Raphael; one the most famous,
“School of Athens”; all are famous but
faded and defaced. It is useless to try and
write minutely of the beautiful and wonder-
ful things we saw. The Museum of
Sculpture contains the largest collection of
classical statuary in Europe; most of the
pieces are Roman copies of Greek originals.
We were anxious to see the Apollo Bel-
videre, Laocoon and some others we had
heard so much of, but we left this and the
Etruscon and Egyptian museums, until
another day. The tapestries are fine,
and the Ancient maps in Golleria Geogra-
fica. The library is famous. In connec-
tion with the library is an immense
collection of gems and objects of art, pre-
sented to different Popes. We just walked
through it, looking only at a few things
as it would take months to see all.
	The Picture Gallery contains choice
paintings among which are Raphael’s
“Transfiguration” and “Madonna del
Foliguo” she and the infant are up in the


clouds with angels all about them. There
are paintings by Murillo so famous for his
perfect flesh tints, and Domenichino’s
masterpiece of the "Last Communion of
St. Jerome” and the lovely “Madonna del
Resario” by Sassoferrati; she and the infant
Jesus are enthroned in the clouds, her feet
resting on the crescent, with angels all
about them. We now visited the Barber-
ino Palace to see Reni Guido’s “Beatrice
Cenci.” I always thought her’s the sweet-
est face, but heard it written up as baby
face, so judged it might not be all I im-
agined; but it is indeed beautiful, and those
eyes—well I have seen sick babies when
easy for a moment after intense suffering,
look up with just that expression. The
other one where her lawyer is urging her
to confess and end the torture, looks just as
I imagine (after seeing the rack) one would
look, having endured its exquisite torture.
	We now drove outside the gates along
the Appian Way. “And from thence,
when the brethren heard us, they came to
meet us as far as Appii-forum, and The
Three Taverns, whom when Paul saw he
thanked God and took courage.” Acts,
28 chapter, 15 verse. And a delightful
drive it is; when as far as the “Three
Taverns” we returned, going into the
Catacombs of St. Calixtus, original palace
of Sepulture of Saint Cecilia. We entered
the chapel where a priest gave us lighted
tapers, then showing us some sacred relics,
among them the print of the Savior’s foot-
steps in the sand, we began to descend,
with the solemn warning to all keep to-
gether near the priest, as so many had been
lost forever. Everything was so awe-in-
spiring and this filled us with fear, as we
filed along through the narrow passes
which were a perfect maze, and so short,
and the turnings so numerous; and when
you know they are thousands of miles,
and ever so many stories under ground,
you may judge we obeyed orders. We saw
the blood of the martyrs and their bones,
the slabs of marble which told who lay
buried there; the turtle dove and branch of
laurel indicated a young girl. We saw the
turning where the Christians used to con-
fuse the soldiers when they came to take
them. There were two turnings side by
side, and of course the soldiers ran down
the first; that was the last of them thank
God! All breathed a sigh of relief when
we reached the outside, and were thankful
we lived in this 19th Century. I have been
told the burning of so many candles in the
Catholic Church is emblematic of the time
when they dare not read the Bible openly,
and sought sanctuary in those old tombs.
	Driving home via the Corso,—a most
beautiful street at night; we were cheered
at dinner with singing and music.
KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE APOSTLE PETER WEPT. 

	AND why did he weep? Was it not be-
cause he saw the prophecy of our Savior
fulfilled to the very letter? Yes he had
denied his Lord three times as Jesus said he
would, after telling him that “Satan de-
sires to sift thee as wheat, but I have pray-
ed for thee that thy faith fail not; and when
thou art converted, strengthen thy breth-
ren.”—St. Luke, 22 chapter, 32 verse.
	But Peter did not comprehend these 
words for his reply was: “Lord I am ready
to go with thee, both into prison and to
death.” How could his Lord doubt his

[Column 2]
love for Him? But what was His reply?
He said: “I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall
not crow this day, before that thou shalt
thrice deny that thou knowest me.”—Luke,
22 chapter, 34 verse.
	And in the 35th verse He said unto them:
“When I sent you without purse and scrip
and shoes, lacked ye many things?” They
said: “No nothing.”
	Then said He unto them: “But now he
that hath a purse let him take it, and like-
wise his scrip; and he that hath no sword,
let him sell his garment and buy one.”
	“For I say unto you that which is writ-
ten, must yet be accomplished in me, for
the things concerning me have an end.”
	“And they said unto Him, “Lord we
have two swords.” And He said unto them
“It is enough.” 38th verse the same chap.
	“He then withdrew from them about a
stone’s throw, and kneeled down and pray-
ed, and when He arose from prayer He
found them sleeping.” 
	“He said unto them, “Why sleep ye?
Arise and pray, lest ye enter into tempta-
tion.”
	“While he yet spoke behold a multitude,
and Judas was one of them, and drew near
to Jesus to kiss Him. But Jesus said unto
him, “Judas betrayest thou the Son of
man with a kiss?”
	“Then said one of His disciples “Shall
we smite with the sword?” At this mo-
ment one of them smote the servant of the
high priest, and cut off his right ear. Je-
sus answered and said: “Suffer ye thus far”
and He touched his ear and healed him.”
	Luke 22nd chapter, 50th to 60th verse.
Peter said: “Man I know not what thou
sayest” and while speaking the cock crew;
and the Lord turned and looked upon
Peter, and Peter remembered the words of
Jesus and he went out and wept bitterly.”
	Here we see that the sieve was a profi-
table lesson to the Apostle Peter. Here he
learned the difference between the spirit of
the Gospel and that of the world.
	After the spirit of the world left him,
then our Savior’s words were vividly im-
pressed and rushed to his memory, bringing
greater love for the Lord and Master than
he ever experienced in doubt. Did he hear
the high priest ask, as written in Mark,
14th chapter, and part of verse 61, “Art
thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?”
And Jesus said: “I am, and ye shall see
the Son of man sitting on the right hand of
power, and coming in the clouds of hea-
ven.”
	"Watch ye therefore, and pray always,
that ye may be accounted worthy to escape
all these things that shall come to pass and
stand before the Son of man.”
					ZION'S CONVERT


THE Chicago Civic Federation has an-
nounced its intention to concentrate its
efforts on two important objects—the prose-
cution of city employees who are systematic-
ally robbing the city treasury, and the election
of State legislators who will give Chicago
new reform measures.
	THE twenty-fourth Congress of Women
will be held in St. Johns, New Burnswick,
Sep. 16, 17 and 18. Members of the A. A.
W. expecting to attend should write at once
to Mrs W. H. Tuck, Orange Street, St.
Johns, N. B., in order to receive names and
addresses of their hostesses.


“Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe never
ceased to believe that women were needed
in government as truly as in the family,
and ought to be clothed with the same polit-
cal rights and charged with the same polit-
cal duties as men.”
	Western Womanhood of Fargo, North De-
kota edited and published by Mary A. Whe-
don comes out in a new and attractive form
with its third volume. It is a general wo-
man’s paper—confined to no single hobby,
but concerning woman’s work in the home
and out—probably the only journal in the
West giving an outlook over such a broad
field. W. C. T. U., Equal Suffrage,
Home, Children, School Room, Sunday
school, all have their part and place. The
leading page contains a delightful picture
and sketch of Mrs. Ella Knowles Haskell,
of Montana, the first and only lady Assist-
ant Attorney General in this country.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Instructor in the School of Ob-
stetrics and Nursing.
	The winter session opens Oct. 12, 1896 with
greatly improved facilities for education in this
important branch of study. Reduced prices to
societies. For further information communicate
with Ellis R Shipp M. D., 75 Center St. Salt
Lake City. Telephone 555.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with		Dr. Pratt,
	226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
		Salt Lake City, Utah.

LOW RATES TO THE EAST.
	Your attention is directed to the exceptionally
low rates in effect this coming season to nearly
every prominent point in the East.
	Never before has such an excellent opportunity
b en afford d for a  ummer Vacation Tour, or for
visiting friends in the East. We mention below a
few of the places to which greatly reduced rates
have been made. The UNION PACIFIC is the line
that will give you the best service to any of these
points.
Chicago, Ill., July 7. Rate— One fare for the round trip.
Buffalo, N. Y., July 7-11. Rate—One fare for the round trip
	plus $2.00.
Washington, D. C., July 7-13. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., July 16-19. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., July 21-24. Rate—One and one-third fare on
	certificate plan.
St Louis, Mo., July 22. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., August 16-24. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Cleveland, Ohio, August 23-30. Rate—(Probably) one fare for
	the round trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 25-27. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
St. Paul, Min., September 1-4. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip (in some cases less).
	For full information as to dates of sale and limit of tickets,
time of trains, etc., call on
CITY TICKET OFFICE 201 MAIN STREET.
D. E. BURLEY, G. A. P. D.	D. S. TAGGART, T. P. A 
R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	41
Vol. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1896.	No 6.


CONTENTS:
	A Few Words About India—Dilbhur. Primary
Report. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—Zina
Y. Hyde, Secretary. U. W. P. C—Ella W.
Hyde. “September Seventh.”—Lulu. Facts
About Miss Dodge. Leaves From My Journal— 
Kim. Notes And News. In Memoriam. Honor
To A Veteran—L. W. Jones. Reception To The
Ladies Literary Club—D. S. Ought Women
To Want to Vote?
	EDITORIAL:—The Political Outlook. Cannon
Ward Relief Society.
	POETRY:—Thoughts—L. D. Alder. Isle Of The
Beautiful Past—L. M. H. The Mountains—Mrs.
Victoria Alexandra Stone.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS,

On the death of Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson.
SING, dear one sing, and shout for very joy!
In the world above the stars, where strife cannot
	annoy;
The incense from this lower world, of work so 
	nobly done,
Will rise and bless thee ever, while countless
	ages come. 
Thy heart so full of heavenly joy, shall now be 
	satisfied;
And in His presence thou wilt bask, who for us
	bled and died;
And tho’ we drop the tear of love and sigh that 
	thou art gone,
Yet joy is bubbling uppermost, that thou a crown
	hast won. 
I think of how you humbly stood, and of the 
	Master spoke,—
The echoes in the listeners’ ears, such rapturous
	strains awoke—
The light of angels hovering near, thy trembling
	form embraced,
And “Well beloved of the Lord,” was on each 
	feature traced.
Forget thee? No! Though all thy friends again 
	may meet;
We’ll miss thy saintly face, thy presence calm
	and sweet;
And a sigh of love will rise, from every faithful
	heart,
And a tear of sweet remembrance, from saddened
	eyes will start. 
But O, for thee a glorious day has been revealed
 	to view;
Where Cherubim and Seraphim, and other 
	glories new.
Will greet thy stately entrance, where all the 
	Saints will meet,
As the fragrance rare of flowers most fair, arise
	beneath thy feet.
‘‘Well done!” Come where the rippling waters
	softly flow along;
Where on the ambient air, in triumph sounds the
	victor’s song;
And hear the blessed music, thy heart has 
	yearned to know,
While wandering thro' the darkness, that besets
	us here below. 
Faithful unto death! Thy Covenant vows un-
	broke;
And singing in thy heart the song the Gospel
	sound awoke;

[Column 2]
O, who would shrink the burden, when the crown
	is sure to come;
‘Who bears the cross, will wear the crown,” the
	prophets all have sung. 
And peace doth come when the journey’s o’er—
The warrior must not rest when the battle is be-
	fore!—
But when the victory’s won, the ease is sure to 
	come;
As a well of lasting pleasure are the welcome 
	words ‘‘Well done.”
So, tolling bells ring out a joyous sound!
And tell the gathered Saints who weeping stand
	around,
’Tis well with her, though the world is closed to
	view,
For she has fought the fight, to God has proven
	true. 
Brave hearts, true hearts, who walk the way in
	tears,
And only trace the journey by the slowly, chang-
	ing years,
Be comforted! though strife and sorrow too, be 
	rife;
Hear thro’ the gloom and darkness, “I am the
	Resurrection and the Life.” 
Dear one adieu! adieu! But O, ’twill not be long,
Till we who mourn thee now, must learn the 
	changing song;
For fairer in the East dawns the Resurrection
	morn—
The grave will yield its sleepers up, and of its 
	power be shorn. 
Then in thy snowy robes, gems sparkling on thy
	brow,—
The Past beneath thy feet, and only pleasure
	now,—
Wilt in thy shining mansion, that ever will be
	home,
Throw open wide the portals, and bid thy loved
	ones “Come.”
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
August 25, 1896.
	*At a gathering of the sisters in the home of
the writer on July 2, 1896, while speaking Sister 
Clawson said, “I sing in my heart all the time,
and sometimes I could shout for very joy I feel so
happy; but I never was a singer.”
	On resuming her seat, Sister Zina D. H. Young,
the venerable president of the Relief Society who 
presided at the meeting, uttered the follow-
ing prophetic words, “Sister Clawson, you shall 
sing until your heart is satisfied; you shall 
be one of the sweetest singers when you go beyond
the Veil.”
								L. D. A.


[Column 1]
A FEW WORDS ABOUT INDIA.

	As a rule I think readers are more inter-
ested in details of a foreign country when
given by one who has really visited it, and
personally witnessed the various scenes
depicted. As many years of my life were
spent in India, I shall have great pleasure-
if I can interest you with a few details re-
garding it, its inhabitants and my exper
ences while there.

	I arrived in Calcutta in December 1860,
after a four months’ passage on board a

[Column 2]
sailing vessel, of which my uncle was the
captain. 
	The river Hugli by which Calcutta is
reached is a most dangerous river on ac-
count of its shifting sands, consequently
the pilot who takes charge of the vessel
at the Sand Heads, that is, where the
mouth of the river is entered from the Bay
of Bengal, has men sounding and shouting
out every five minutes the depth of water.
It is always a most exciting time when
entering a foreign port, and Eastern ports
are more especially interesting to those
who have never seen anything but the
Western hemisphere surroundings. The
banks with their strange trees of cocoanut
and palms have a great charm; the houses
with their strange forms and colors, fill the
stranger with curiosity to know what the
interior of such remarkable buildings must 
be, and what the inhabitants are like.
	First we pass Tangir Island where
nobody can live as it is infested with the
largest species of Bengal tigers, and where
many Europeans every year lose their
lives in tiger hunting.
	On sailing up the river the next sight
that interests one in nearing the city is the
residence of the late King of Oude. When
the British took possession of his territory
he was brought to Calcutta and a large
tract of land, together with a handsome
pension was granted to him. The reason
of the forfeiture of his territory I will ex-
plain later on. He has many houses in his
grounds, all of different colors and designs,
where he has an immense harem. He also
keeps thousands of pigeons, and it is most in-
teresting to see them flying about in flocks.
The old man is never allowed to leave Cal-
cutta, and is frequently seen taking a drive
in an old-fashioned carriage attended by
about 20 troopers, natives of course. They are
dirty, badly dressed, badly mounted, are
poor riders and most unsoldierly in appear-
ance. The attendants of a third class circus
in a procession are quite respectable com-
pared with these royal body guards; it is
indeed a relic of departed grandeur. To
give a clear idea of Calcutta to those who
have never seen it is not easy. The city may
be roughly divided into two parts—the
European and the native; though in the
native part some poor Europeans live, and
in the European part some rich natives re-
side. Here are the fine houses that give
Calcutta the name of “The City of
Palaces.”
	They are built of brick and plastered
white, with verandahs and venetians paint-
ed bright green; when clean and the paint
fresh, a Calcutta house is very pretty. The
roofs are mostly flat, and in the evenings
we sit there and chat, dance and generally
enjoy ourselves, for however hot the day
may have been there is nearly always a
pleasant cool breeze from the sea that comes up
the river in the evening, and I assure you it is
enjoyable. There is a fine drive called the
Strand where in the evening may be seen
every imaginable conveyance, as everybody
who can get one takes a drive to see and
be seen—others walk and enjoy the sight
Of the gay dresses, the flirtations, etc., that are


[Column 1]
going on. All the scandal of Calcutta is
discussed on the Strand. There is a small
park with a band stand, and whilst the
band is playing, every item of news is dis-
cussed. If Miss So and So is engaged it is
made known there as she is seen driving
with Mr. So and So for the first time alone,
and Mrs. Grundy is sure it must be so! A
curious feature of Calcutta is the native
part of the town, especially China bazaar,
a row of native shops. When the shops
are open about 10 o’clock, the business of
the day commences; and a lively scene
it is. A stranger is pestered as he walks 
along or his carriage is stopped by the tout
who declares you are certain to get all you
want at his shop, and further that at his
shop you will have honest men to deal with
whilst at all his rivals there are only liars
and rogues. At times they seem as if they
were going to fight, but you need not fear
they are mere words and they have no idea 
of giving offence; in fact if you look back 
after refusing to deal with any of them, you
will see they are having a good laugh to-
gether at your expense. In China bazaars
you can meet with almost everything you
can require, but you will have great diffi-
culty in finding it, and when found, in get- 
ing it at anything like a reasonable price,
especially if you cannot speak the language
and do not understand the customs of the
people. They usually ask about double
what they will take. There is an old say-
ing amongst the Europeans, “Multiply by
2, divide by 4, and then give them a half of
that.” The Balameal Gardens are the
next place I visited. I saw the wonderful
Banyan Tree which is said to be large
enough to shelter 10,000 men. The new
branches of the tree run down until they
touch the ground where they take root and
become supporters and feeders of the older
parts of the tree. There is no reason why
this tree should not in the course of years
spread so that it will cover miles. I have
frequently spent a pleasant day’s picnic un-
der this tree where we have put up curtains
and had a cook-room, kitchen, parlor with
cane chairs and couches, dining-room etc.,
and have had our servants there with every
necessity for the tables which have been
spread on the ground, to satisfy ourselves
very thoroughly, in dancing, racing,
courting, playing hide and seek, and on one
occasion we went down the river in native
boats to the residence of Sir Barnes Peacock,
about forty of us. We were told to be
sure to take to our boats again before 7
o’clock, as we could not turn a certain
point after 8 o'clock as the current in the
Hugli River was very stormy four hours’
in and eight out. However some of the
girls and boys did not attend to the beating
of the gong, and the consequence was
when we reached the point it was found to
be impossible to round it, and there we
had to stay tied up to the bank all night
in open boats, eaten up by mosquitoes
and frightened to death almost by hearing
the owls shriek, the hyenas laugh and
the jackals howl. But we were well se-
cured by strong ropes about 100 yards from
the bank; and I can assure you we were
very glad when the tide turned at 4 o’clock
in the morning and we reached Calcutta in
about an hour and a half, very hungry, as
we had demolished everything before we left
for the boat. In one of the baskets, one of
the gentlemen who was desired to see if
there was anything eatable in them, found a
piece of cheese and a cucumber, which were

[Column 2]
speedily devoured, but no bread or biscuits
or even water; the river water was scarcely
palatable as it is a common thing to see
dead bodies float up and down the river
with great vultures, or adjutants as they
are called, picking at them, and sometimes
the sight is too dreadful to describe.
	Another place of interest on the banks of
the Hugli is the burning ghaul of Kale 
ghaul, as it is called, where the natives
burn their dead. I have frequently sat on
board the ship in the Hugli River and
seen the natives build their pyre and when
ready pour the fat on it and set fire to
it. When hot enough they bring the corpse
down on a charpoi (or bamboo couch made
of strirg and bamboo) and turn it over,
throwing the corpse into the middle of the
burning mass; then begin the howling and
shouting such as only the native Indians
can make. At one time it was the custom
to burn the widow with her husband, but
now it is forbidden by the English law though
doubtless it is done secretly. Until the
law interfered many a child of tender years
who had been married when perhaps four
or five years of age and whose husband
might have been twenty or thirty, and had
died, was thrown into the fire with her hus-
band and burned to death. The cries of
the victim were drowned by the howling
and shouting of the mad fanatics.
Child marriage is still very common; some
girls are married about as soon as born,
where there is some advantage to be derived
from the union.
	Plural marriage is also very general, but
among the poorer natives it is seldom until
the first wife is about 40 when the man takes
another about 15 and the first then becomes
usually a slave to the second, and is very
cruelly treated. The rich natives have
many wives at once, and they are generally
very happy living in the harem together
where they live in great luxury and idle-
ness; but the pour suffer terribly from the
custom.
	As a rule the natives are a quiet, docile
race, and when treated kindly become
greatly attached to their employers. It is
the custom to keep a great number of ser-
vants, eight being the usual staff. Each one
has his or her duties to perform, and if the
mistress is a good manager she can conduct
her house with very little trouble. They
respect a master and mistress who insist
upon each doing his duty, and if they
know they will not be allowed to shirk it,
they will do it faithfully, and have no de-
sire to leave their service. One thing is
imperative on a master and mistress, that is
to keep their word at all times and pay them
honestly and regularly. It is well to treat
them as children; let them see you are
satisfied when they do well, and punish
them if they do wrong. They are keenly
alive to any injustice but ready to acknowl-
edge themselves in the wrong if it is proved
against them. When you have proved
it without doubt they will fall on their
knees and putting their hands together say,
“Put your foot on me,” and after obtaining
forgiveness will serve you well until found
out again. They can be trusted with un-
told gold if they think you know exactly
what you have placed in their care, but
should not like to trust them otherwise.
	There is a kind of freemasonry amongst
them, and they will never tell of one anoth-
er, consequently it is not an easy matter to
find out an offence. Their cunning and
duplicity is most extraordinary; it would

[Column 3]
never enter into the mind of any other race,
I think, to make the excuses and make up
the plausible tale that the native Indian can.
					DILBHUR.


WOMANS EXPONENT


PRIMARY REPORT.
	
UINTAH P. A.
To the Exponent:
	WISHING to be remembered as one of the
Primaries of Zion we send the minutes of
our last Conference to the Exponent.
	Minutes of the Primary Conference of
Uintah Stake of Zion, held at the Stake
House in Vernal, June 1, 1896, President
Abigail Oaks presiding. Singing “Gladly
meeting kindly greeting” opening prayer
offered by second Counselor Roseltha N.
Pearse; singing “Joseph Smith’s First
Prayer.” Minutes of the previous Confer-
ence were read and accepted. Report for
the past year was read, roll called, showing
representatives of seven local officers and
thirteen ward officers.
	Sentiments of President Brigham Young’s
were given in concert by six primary
associations.
	The program was rendered in a pleasing
manner. An essay was given by Charles
Colton “Sketch of President Brigham
Young’s Life.” Sister Annie K. Bartlett
spoke to the children, giving the reason
Primary Conference was held on this day;
that it was in honor of our noble president
who labored so diligently in the cause of
truth; impressed on their minds the value
of being good and following President
Young’s example of obeying the command-
ments of the Lord.
	Vernal Primary answered in concert some
questions on the life of President Young.
The remainder of the program was rendered
in an interesting way. Meeting was ad-
journed until two o’clock p. m.
	The following brethren were present
during the forenoon: President S. R.
Bennion, 2nd Stake Counselor James
Hacking, Bros. Wm. Shaffer, John Timo-
thy, James Gines, I. M. Jones, C. C.
Bartlett, Thomas Bingham and James
Cook. Singing “Nay, speak no ill.”
Benediction by Sister Sarah Colton.
	Afternoon meeting was called to order by
President Oaks. Singing “Day dawn is
breaking;” opening prayer by Maggie
Ambrosen; singing “We Thank Thee O
God for a Prophet.” General officers were
sustained as they were last Conference, and
local officers were unanimously sustained.
Program rendered. An essay on
the life of President Young was given by
Brother O’Niel’s little girl. President Oaks
spoke encouragingly to the children; she
felt grateful for the interest manifested, and
thanked all for their attendance, and especi-
ally those who had taken part, and helped
to make the Conference a success; asked
God to bless all. Conference adjourned
until next September.
	Jenson ward was appointed to lead the
singing the ensuing Conference. Singing,
“Lead us gently Shepherd.” Benediction
by Counselor Annie Hacking.
			ABIGAIL OAKS, President
			ANNIE HACKING,		}Counselors
			ROSELTHA M. PEASE,


A SPECIAL invitation has been extended
to California to take part in an international
horticultural exhibition to be held at Ham-
burg, Germany, in 1897.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ISLE OF THE BEAUTIFUL PAST.

THERE'S a beautiful Isle in the River of Time,
Where softest of echoes are straying;
And the air is as soft as a musical chime,
On the exquisite breath of tropical clime,
Where sweet summer flowers are swaying.
There’s where Memory dwells with her pure
	golden hue,
And music forever is flowing;
With low murmured tones that come trembling
	thro’
Strangely touching the heart, yet sweeten it too,
As soft zephyrs o’er water when blowing.
There are shadowy halls in that fairy-like isle,
Where pictures of beauty are gleaming;
Yet the light of their eyes, and their sweet sunny
	smile.
Only flash round the heart with a ’wildering wile,
And leave us to feel ’tis but dreaming.
And this fancy-like isle is the Beautiful Past,
Richest treasures are buried there;
There are beings of beauty too lovely to last—
There are fairest of blossoms, with dust o’er them
	cast,
There are tresses and ringlets of hair.
There are fragments of song only memory sings,
And the words of a dear mother’s prayer,
There’s a harp long unsought, and a lute without
	strings—
Hallowed tokens that love used to wear.
*******
From this beautiful isle hands are beckoning us
	there,
And with joy that is almost a pain,
We delight to turn back, and in wandering there,
Thro’ the shadowy halls of this island so fair,
We behold our loved treasures again.
Oh! this isle of the Past, with its phantom-like
	show,
Is a vista exceedingly bright;
And the River of Time in its turbulent flow,
Is oft soothed by the voices we heard long ago,
When our days were a dream of delight.
L. M. H.


THE MOUNTAINS.

BY MRS. VICTORIA ALEXANDRA STONE.
“THE mountains are growing old.”—Talmage.
Are the mountains old? Old, did you say?
	Aye, but when will they be stronger?
For they lift their heads as strong today
	As in the days when they were younger.
in pride they defy the lightning’s wrath,
	And the hoarsely bellowing thunder,
While they cleave a path for the tempest’s breath
	Which the storm has cleft asunder.

Old did you say? are they growing old?
	Aye, but when shall they be older ?
For time rolls on with its tale untold
	And the heart of man grows colder.
Oh, dear are the hills that our fathers trod
	Made dearer by song and story
But dearer by far are the hills of God,
	That shine ’neath the shine of glory.

Are the mountains old? If they are who cares?
	Since high in his cloud of thunder,
He sits; and the sword in his right hand bears
	That cleaves the rocks asunder.
Oh, rich is his love as the earth is broad.
	And the heart and the hand grow stronger,
To think we shall dwell on the hills of God,
	When time shall be no longer!


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY
MEETING.
	SYNOPSIS of minutes of meeting held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
Augusts 8, 1896, President M. Isabella

[Column 2]
Horne presiding. Singing “O, Jesus the
Giver;” prayer by Counselor E. Webb;
singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and after
some corrections approved. President
Horne addressed the audience upon home
matters and referred with much feeling to
the condition of the government at the
present time, and the necessity of women
voting for good men; alluded to the wor-
ship of Mammon by the world, and especi-
ally the keeping of the Sabbath day holy.
Spoke Of Sister Eliza’s words concerning
those who attended these meetings, that they
were the “salt of the wards.” Prayed the
blessing of God upon all and His Holy
Spirit to guide us.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball felt very desir-
ous of attending these meetings; thought
our nation was in a very critical condition
today, spoke seriously of the coming elec-
tion and the great importance of it; said she
had studied political matters all her life, and
that they were a part of her religion; she ex-
pected to study this subject more carefully
now than ever, and to do more praying
over it and she considered it the duty of
everybody; there was nothing that absorbed
the minds of the people as much as this
subject, because of the interests involved.
Prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
some of the sayings of Sister Eliza Snow
and the fulfillment of them; said she was
not much in love with politics until the
people could learn to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in dealing with these questions.
Prayed the Lord would prepare us all to
be saved.
	Sister Hannah Conklin, Maria Barnes and
others bore faithful testimonies to the truth
of this work. Singing “How firm a found-
ation.” Sister Sarah Alger from St.
George made some interesting remarks.
Sister Alger is familiar with sericulture and
has labored much in its interest in Dixie;
is President of the Silk Association of St.
George.
	Sister Zina Young, President of the Re-
lief Society, felt the walls of the house
were sacred; where so many good things
had been said, and so many hearts comfort-
ed. ‘‘Sisters stand firm and never trip
over the car of state, but keep it evenly bal-
anced; say with Brother Goddard ‘Who’s
on the Lord’s side, who?’ ” Entreated the
sisters to be prayerful and made a very apt
illustrat on concerning prayer in domestic
affairs. Referred to her recent visit to
Pocatello, Idaho, and gave an account of
the meetings held there; prayed the Lord to
bless us and that we might be prepared to
see the Savior’s face.
	Sister Mary L. Morris spoke of some re-
marks Sister Zina had made twenty years
ago and that they had always been with
her; made other good remarks.
	Pres’t. Horne gave out the notice of the
excursion to Saltair on the 20th, stating the
last one had been such a failure on account
of the unpleasant weather. Singing “Lord
dismiss us with Thy blessing.” Benediction
by Counselor E. J. Stevenson.
		ZINA Y. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.
	SYNOPSIS of minutes of meeting held in
the 14th Ward Hall August 22, 1896,
President M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Singing ‘‘Arise, O glorious Zion;” prayer by
Sister Lydia D. Alder singing “Now let us
rejoice.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and accepted. President Horne was
not feeling very well, but was anxious to

[Column 3]
hear others speak; realized the sisters were
improving and also gradually overcoming
their timidity; it took courageous people to
be Latter-day Saints, we should pray for
strength to overcome our trials and tribula-
tions; spoke earnestly upon the subject of
prayer and its helpfulness in all things.
	Sister Rachel R. Grant spoke of having come
to the meeting to see the faces of her sisters
as she could not hear, but although she
could not hear what was said she partook
of the spirit of the gatherings she attended.
Alluded to the signs of the times and was
impressed that the time was short; begged
the sisters to guard against fault-finding;
gave much good advice and suggested that
we were a blessed people, to be shielded
and protected from the terrible calamities
that were happening in the world; said her
greatest trial was her deafness; wished we
would all pray for her that her hearing
might be restored.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor referred to the
remarks of the former speakers, and partic-
ularly to Sister Grant whose patient aud
sweet spirit notwithstanding her afflictions
was an example to us all. Protested
against evil speaking especially “against
the Lord's anointed;” it brought darkness
and unpleasantness and was not the Spirit
of God. “We have a right to judge our-
selves but no one else, we must have char-
ity; every hour in the day we should say
Oh, God help us and guide us continually
in every act of our lives.”
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to a con-
versation with a strange lady who had visit-
ed the Tabernacle, and the peculiar feeling
the lady had when she looked over to the
Temple and of other remarks made in the
course of conversation, which showed im-
pressions were made upon strangers by our
surroundings and our teachings even in
private talks with people we met casually.
Sisters Bozzi, Barrows and others bore
beautiful testimonies calculated to strength-
en the faith of all who heard. Sister Sarah
Phelps realized the work was rolling along
and the people were being tested; asked
the Lord to show to the young people in
Zion what was passing, and give them the
strength to withstand the temptations
around them, and keep them from evil.
	Sister Julia C. Howe thought it very
necessary that we should have the spirit of
discernment; exhorted the sisters to set
good examples in all places, and to teach
at all times the principles taught in the
holy Scriptures, to observe the Sabbath
day and to keep all the commandments;
realized we were a blessed people.
	Sister Margaret Brown gave some of
her experiences and how she came to join
the Church, and repeated part of a con-
versation with a young man whom she
met and believed she had sown some
good seed in his heart.
	Singing “Let Zion in her beauty rise.”
Sister Rawlings bore her testimony, and
after the transaction of some business, and
giving out the notice of the Relief Society
Stake Conference, the meeting was ad-
journed; singing “This God is the God
we adore.” Benediction by Counselor E.
Webb.
		ZINA Y. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


WHY should not women vote? The es-
sence of all republicanism is that they who
feel the pressure of the law shall have a
voice in its enactment.—REV. JOHN PIER-
PONT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonp[-]reil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
cond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBER 15, 1896.


The Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake will hold their Quarterly Conference
on Saturday, September 19, in the Assem-
bly Hall in this city, meetings commencing
as usual at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. It is
desired there should be as large an atten-
dance as possible from the members of the
society throughout the city and county
and that each President be present or
send an authorized representative. The
public are cordially invited.


[Column 1]
THE POLITICAL OUTLOOK.

	IN the midst of the excitement over the
political situation designated critical now
prevailing in the United States, it seems
positively necessary that those who believe
in an over-ruling power should exercise
their utmost faith in appealing to the Lord
in behalf of the people in this great nation;
that the government “by the people and of
the people,” of which Americans have
boasted so much and have been so justly
proud, may be preserved intact; that no
conflict between capital and labor shall
reach that stage of bitterness and ill-feeling
that it cannot be amicably adjusted, and the
nation saved from ruin, which according to
some eminent statesmen now seems impend-
ing, unless great and radical monetary
changes are made in the near future.
	The efficacy of prayer cannot be over-
rated; thousands of instances might be cited
to prove this assertion. Throughout the
world, when all other or earthly
means fail, prayer is the only refuge.
Among the Latter-day Saints fasting and
prayer has accomplished what to all human
appearance seemed utterly impossible; testi-
mony upon testimony might be adduced in
our own day to substantiate this fact, but to
the people of the world who believe in the
Holy Scriptures, Bible proof is more con-
vincing still; and how many times the Lord
hearkened and heard when besought in
mighty faith through prayer both by the
ancients, and what we term Former-day
Saints.
	Men may scoff and ridicule this method
of settling difficulties, and warding off dan-
gers, and insist that “the wisdom of the
wise” is sufficient; but in all ages of the
world, God has revealed Himself at differ-
ent times so visibly that the most confirmed
agnostic could not disprove the fact, though
he might deny the interposition of the Al-

[Column 2]
mighty. That faith without works is dead
is true; but when all things fail and one
sees how utterly fruitless is human knowl-
edge and skill, then only God is in the
thoughts, and this of itself should teach the
most doubting unbeliever that His power is
supreme. Then why not appeal to Him
through it all, not waiting until all other
means fail, but acknowledge Him in that
universe over all, and follow the whisper-
ings of Divine spirit even though darkness
obscures all else, and one can but take one
step at a time, not knowing fully, only
trusting in the infinite.
   The whole country is (as it were) in a
tumult of uncertainty, and one who does
not trust in God might easily be persuaded
that a reign of terror is imminent; but He
who can command the fierce winds and
stormy waves can also move upon the hearts
of designing men to soften and subdue
hatred, malice, avarice and unwarranted
ambition for power, and wicked purposes.
   That the Lord intended America for a
land of liberty, for the oppressed of all na-
tions, seems now to be an accepted fact.
That Columbus was inspired to seek it out,
not knowing what the future would unfold,
is equally so. That the Pilgrim fathers and
mothers (although they did leave their
dear old England because of religious per-
secution) were led hither under the guid-
ance and protection of the Almighty, to es-
tablish freedom of conscience, no one
attempts to deny; and that the Constitution
of this Republic was an inspired instrument
is coming to be, and will be eventually,
universally acknowledged. And we go
even farther than this, and assert that the
Latter-day Saints were led to these barren
vales to open up a new and more extended
country where more and more of the op-
pressed and down-trodden from among the
nations might have refuge and rest, with
homes and advantages such as other
countries did not afford; and this is none
the less true because of this people having
been driven into the wilderness, beyond the
pale of civilization, forced to flee, as were
their Puritan forefathers, because of their
objectionable religious belief.
   The prosperity that has attended this
people has been "a marvel and a wonder”
while they have been pursuing such occupa-
tion as tend to thrift, morality and laudable
enterprise, and their flocks and herds have
increased, and their fields and farms have
yielded bountiful harvests. Blessings have
been showered upon them of late, as it were,
until instead of being a reproach as in for-
mer days, they have come to be highly es-
teemed, and in many respects considered an
example to neighboring states. What does
all this portend? Surely not that they
should forsake the quiet industrious habits
and ways of the founders of this state and
the intermountain country adjacent, and
give themselves over to the speculations
and methods of those who are not for the
laws of God, nor human brotherhood.
Hitherto the teaching of the Savior, “Love
thy neighbor as thyself,” has largely pre-
vailed, and His injunction, “Watch and
pray lest ye enter into temptation!” Let
us hope the future will prove further still
in this new state the integrity and honesty
of the people who are now being brought
under conditions of greater responsibility,
and that they will stand for purity and up-
rightness in all that pertains to life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness and the princi-

[Column 3]
ple of good government, whatever comes,
whether prosperity or adversity. There
will assuredly be opportunity to prove the
loyalty of the people in this Western land,
that is a foregone conclusion; honest men
will be needed, for as the wealth of the hills
is developed and the world grows greedy of
gain as it assuredly will, those who keep
their faith and trust in God inviolate will
come into prominence because of those
sterling qualities, that always command re-
spect and admiration in every age of the
world. 
   It is as true now as in days of old that
“The love of money is the root of all evil.”
When a nation or a people admit that the
question of paramount importance is the
money question, and it is put first before
any other consideration, danger is lurking
near and the steadfast faith and sincere
prayers of the humble and the meek are
needed to help keep “the ship of state” from
being dashed to pieces by the storms that
threaten to rise from warring human ele-
ments and passions of man in our own
country, that are sometimes more to be
dreaded than the invasion of foreign power.
   In this crisis of the present time women
as a class all over the land are manifesting
greater interest than ever before, and giving
more intelligent thought to public questions
and needs; the opportunities have come to
them through the spirit of the times, and
the Herculean efforts of some of the wo-
men of our day, energetic workers and
moulders of public sentiment, such as
Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony, with many others fol-
lowing in their lead; this element in politics
should be a conservative one, to help cor-
rect and modify; there may be and un-
doubtedly will be, a few extremists, but
they will be scarce, if only because of the
timidity and lack of confidence among wo-
men of their own understanding of these
vital questions that are now being agitated.
There certainly is great need of conserva-
tism when opinions run riot as they do
now, and spring up spontaneously, like
mushrooms without the least thought or
cultivation; and spread abroad too like
wild-fire.
   The women of Utah who have just been
given equal suffrage, have a hard question
before them to solve, and they should above
all else study carefully and prayerfully
over these matters that are so new to them,
and of such grave importance. Better do
too little than too much, but be sure to
register properly, and be ready to vote
light, if possible, when election time comes.
What the women of Utah are going to do
with the ballot is being much talked of at
home and elsewhere, but it is not a good
thing to be too fearful. The pioneer women
have had many lessons that ought to serve a
good purpose now if they would recall
them. The prophecies of Heber C. Kim-
ball, that the time would come when a barrel
of wheat would be worth a barrel of gold,
will yet come to pass, and in view of that it
it would seem there are other considerations
for women at least, than the money
question; it would be a sad state of affairs
if this people had not something better than
silver or gold. The blessing of the Gospel
and the holy priesthood are always first,
and other things secondary in importance;
the saying of the Savior, ‘Silver and gold
I have not, but such as I have I give unto


you,” should be a lesson for us. Better to
have homes in which to dwell, and some-
thing to eat, than all the gold in these
mountains, or silver either, and lose the
sweet simple spirit of the Gospel. Conten-
tion does not bring a spirit of peace and
love, such as the Saints should enjoy, and
women as well as men need to be on their
guard at all times and keep from evil say-
ing, and seek the Lord for wisdom in polit-
cal as well as in all other matters; the votes
of women and their candid opinions will be
needed, but the faith and prayers and the
spirit of peace which ought to characterize
women in the political atmosphere as much
as in society and in the home will help very
greatly. The writer has great faith in the
women of Utah that they will be wise con-
siderate, and prayerful, and if they are they
will not fail to be right in political matters
and honest with their own consciences.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CANNON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY.
	ON the 6th of August 1896, at 2 p.m.,
a meeting was held in the Cannon school
house for the purpose of organizing a Re-
lief Society in that ward. Bishop Lewis
M. Cannon and one of his Counselors, F.
A. Gould, were present and also Elder L.
John Nuttall, and some sisters who had
been invited to be present. Bishop L. M.
Cannon presided and meeting opened with
singing, “Come, come ye Saints;” prayer
was offered by Elder Gould; continued by
singing “Now let us rejoice.” Sister M.
Isabella Horne, President of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake, was the first
speaker; she made some explanations in re-
gard to the Society as a whole, its origin
and growth, and the changes made to se-
cure property legally; also as to the Society
becoming connected to the National Council
of Women of the United States. Referred
to the Prophet Joseph’s words concerning
the future of the organization, and said the
prophecies he made at that time seemed
scarcely possible of fulfillment, but had
since come to pass in a wonderful way.
Deemed it our duty to take advantage of
these organizations, and thought it strange
so many should be indifferent in regard to
women’s associations; she knew we made
greater advancement when organized than
we possibly could otherwise. Said we
should not yield to evil or temptation, but
keep humble and prayerful and we would
not be led astray.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, Counselor to
Sister Horne, in her remarks, said she had
been thinking of the number that were pre-
sent at the first organization in the Masonic
Hall in Nauvoo, Illinois. On that occasion
Joseph Smith read the revelation about
Emma Smith in which she is called “the
Elect Lady,” and said “she was called then
but was now elected.” Sister Hyde spoke
of those sisters who were present that morn-
ing, Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Leonora Taylor, (the aunt of
President Cannon;) she also made other
good remarks, and added she had heard
these things from her father, Elder John
Taylor, who was present at the organiza-
tion. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith in speak-
ing said she did not realize the blessing it was
then to be a member of this Society as she
did now; the Prophet organized them in
the name of the Lord, and taught them
many things, and met with them from time
to time. She was present when he said “he

[Column 2]
would not be with us long,” the effect of
his words was very powerful; his voice
trembled and he seemed much affected; she
wished she had written more of his sayings,
then she would have remembered things
better. “Our labors among the poor are not
changed because of the change in the name
or legalizing of our property; we must live
our religion and never apostatize, and must
be punctual in all our duties.”
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly upon the
educational benefits of the Society, morally
and spiritually, and what she realized it had
been to the women in these valleys, and
the vast work that had been accomplished
for mankind through the Society. Exhort-
ed the young women to take hold of the
work and help carry the responsibility,
while there were still some of those living
who had labored so diligently in laying the
foundation. Sister Smith and Horne each
spoke again a few words alluding to wo-
man’s mission in this and other dispensa-
tions, and referred to Miriam and to Sarah
who were so greatly honored of the Lord.
	Elder L. John Nuttall, spoke upon the
first organization of the Relief Society by
the Prophet, and of the fulfillment of the
revelation to Emma Smith, and the won-
derful changes that had come to pass among
women all over the world since, because of
the key of knowledge that was turned for
women by the Prophet at that time; said
he had studied the subject considerably and
found that Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth
Cady Stanton had called the first Ccmmittee
of women in 1848—while our organization
dated back to March 17, 1842; he also al-
luded to the saying of Joseph Smith that
“the sisters should provoke the brethren to
good works;” referred to many things
that happened in those days, and said the
changes made now were not the only ones
that had been made in the Relief Society,
nor in the Church as progress was made;
thought the sisters should become familiar
with parliamentary usages; these regula-
tions had been permitted and every one
should understand and observe them. Elder
Nuttall then read the “Rules or By-laws,”
and the Society was organized.
	Mrs. Sarah Jane Cannon, President,
Rebecca A. Sharp and Sarah A. J. Cannon,
Vice Presidents, Sarah Temery, Secretary,
Mary A. West, Treasurer; Trustees Carlie
Y. Cannon, Sarah A. Davey and Martha
T. Cannon. A number of members were
enrolled. The Society is to be known as
the Cannon Ward Relief Society. Presi-
dent Horne gave some further instruction
about the duties of the members, and told
them that beside the record kept here the
angels were silent notes taking, and they
were recorded in heaven. Minutes of the
organization were read and accepted and
meeting was adjourned to complete the or-
ganization by setting apart the officers etc.,
until Tuesday, August 18, at 2 p. m. at the
same place. Dismissed with prayer.


U W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club met at
the EXPONENT Office, Aug. 31, 1896, Presi-
dent E. B. Wells in the chair. Prayer was
offered by Mrs. Lizzie Shipp. The roll
was called, members responding with or-
iginal sentiments; minutes of the July
meeting were read and approved. President
E. B. Wells said she had received a card


from the Ladies Literary Club, inviting the
members of the Press Club to be present at
their opening day exercises, which would
include a reception to the retiring president;
also a book containing their plan of work
for the year. Miss Monroe moved that a
vote of thanks be tendered the Literary
Club for their invitation; the motion was
carried unanimously. Dr. R. B. Pratt read
a poem from Jean Ingelow entitled, “The
Dead Year,” followed by a sketch from the
life of Margaret, Queen of St Louis of
France. Dr. E. B. Ferguson gave an in-
teresting account of the Democratic conven-
tion held at Chicago to which she was sent
as a delegate. Meeting was then adjourned
for one month. Closing prayer by Mrs.
Mary Morris; after which delicious refresh-
ments were served, and pleasant chat en-
gaged in.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Cor. Sec.


“SEPTEMBER SEVENTH.”
		1896.

	IT is Labor Day. The stores and shops
are closed and business is principally sus-
pended. Where are those ladies going,
those small groups, now two or three to-
gether, and later on one and then another
alone?
	Don’t you know whose birthday this is?
Don’t you remember that blessed “friend of
mankind,” Aunt Prescendia Kimball?
This is the 86th anniversary of her birth.
Sister Elizabeth Stevenson has opened her
doors to a few of the special friends of
Aunt Prescendia, to celebrate the memory
of that dear woman.
	And yet, not a tithe of those who were her
special friends can here be entertained; her
favorites and those with whom she was a
favorite, were as numerous as those who
ever heard her voice or felt her hand in
blessing; and they are shall we say without
number?
	Those first comers are the two Nebeker
sisters. Next comes Sister Zina, followed
at intervals by B. W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
E. H. Paul, M. E. Kimball, M. C. Sharp,
A. Airmit, P. Y. Beatie, M. R. Alford, J.
C. Howe, M. A. Hyde, J. P. Fowler, M.
J. Howard, A. Tate, E. Jackson, S. E.
Young, L. L. G. Richards, S. M. Kimball,
E. S. Wilcox, H. Saunders and B. How-
arth.
	Very pleasant conversation first; then
dinner, served by the hostess, in a most
agreeable manner; after which a meeting
was held, presided over by President M. I.
Horne.
	Singing, “We thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” All kneel in prayer led by Sis-
ter Richards. Singing, “O, my Father,”
etc. And now, every one present has a
testimony to offer concerning the love, the
power of blessing, and the extraordinary
faith which was possessed and exercised by
the favored daughter of God in whose hon-
or they had met. Each speak in turn; all
hearts are full to overflowing with gratitude
that they have known and felt the influence
of the boundless sympathy, and the affec-
tionate, tender yet strong and courageous
character possessed by Sister Prescendia
Kimball.
	The gifts of the Gospel are exercised
in touching and pathetic language by Sis-


ters M. A. Hyde, Z. D. Young, M. P.
Howe and E. H. Paul.
	A sharp thunder shower comes up during
the progress of the meeting, but clears off
in time for dismissal at half past five.
“Nearer my God to Thee,” is sung, Presi-
dent M. I. Horne offers benediction, and all
go home rejoicing in the bonds of love.
							LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
FACTS ABOUT MISS DODGE.

	MISS DODGE first came into public notice
by her little book called “Wool-Gathering”
printed about twenty-five years ago. Hav-
ing been induced to invest some money in
a sheep farm in one of the Western States,
and having lost all her investment through
bad management or misrepresentation, or
both, she made an investigation of the wool
business, and wrote one of her characteristic
screeds about it. The book had an
enormous circulation all over the country.
It was the first evidence of her remarkable
power, and from that time forward every-
thing from her pen was eagerly read.
	During the war she won fame by her
championship of the case of a midshipman
in the navy, who had been accused of
mutiny and sedition and hanged at a yard-
arm. The lad was a nephew of a member
of the cabinet, and family influence
was set at work to convince Miss Dodge
that the boy was innocent. She made an
investigation of the charges, and succeeded
in convincing a great many people that the
midshipman had organized a sort of secret
society simply for fun, and not with any
seditious intent.
	Miss Dodge’s strong characteristics left
their impress upon the career of James G.
Blaine. It is one of the traditions of life
in the capital that Mr. Blaine always leaned
upon her judgment When in doubt as to
matters political, literary or diplomatic, it
was with her that he wished to consult be-
fore any one else. Miss Dodge’s skill as a
politician and her judgment of men were
remarkably keen, and with his wife and her
cousin as his advisers, it used to be a com-
mon saying in Washington that Mr. Blaine
had a cabinet which a President might
envy.
	Years ago, before Mr. Blaine’s literary
reputation was as firmly established as it
was before his death, there was a popular
belief that Miss Dodge wrote his speeches
and reviews for him. As late as 1881
when Blaine was in the Garfield cabinet,
he was suspected of having Miss Dodge as
his assistant in the preparation of diplomatic
dispatches.
	She worked very hard on the life of
James G. Blaine, and finished it just before
her illness, in June, 1895. She had in her
possession all the personal papers referring
to Mr. Blaine’s own affairs, and his business
and private correspondence.
	In the course of that sickness Miss Dodge
was unconscious for some time, and she
afterward wrote her experiences, which
were published in the New York Indepen-
dent, under the title, “Passing Through
the Shadow.” In this article Miss Dodge
declared that she died, and she detailed her
experience after death.
	In addition, Miss Dodge never ceased
her efforts to secure the release of Mrs.
Maybrick, the American woman imprisoned
for life in London on accusation of poison-

[Column 2]
ing her husband. She was the first woman
in America to engage in anything like a
systematic effort to accomplish Mrs. May-
brick’s release, and every day and every
week since she busied herself about this
same project.
	Miss Dodge had a keenly intellectual
face. Her hair was pure white and her
eyes were bright and penetrating, and
framed in this white hair her face was re-
markably impressive. She looked like a
bright broad-minded woman. Her life had
been one of constant work and excitment.
	When Gen. Butler was Governor of
Massachusetts he offered Miss Dodge a
position as one of the trustees of the State
workhouse at Bridgewater, a vacancy hav-
ing occurred on the board by reason of the
resignation of Mrs. James T. Fields.
	She was a kind and sympathetic woman,
dearly loved by her neighbors.
	Though not in favor of woman suffrage,
Miss Dodge was impatient of the fallacies
of its opponents, and her little book ridicul-
ing the Rev. John Todd for his contempt-
uous disparagement of womanhood, was
wonderfully keen and effective. In this
book nearly all the stock arguments of the
remonstrants are dissected with merciless
scalpel. In reply to the threadbare ob-
jection that if women voted they must en-
gage in every kind of rough manual labor,
Gail Hamilton caustically demanded why
it should follow, if equal suffrage were
granted, that Lucretia Mott must go to the
North Sea and hunt seals, while the Rev.
John Todd might stay at home and write
sermons? The early advocates of woman’s
rights will never forget her services to the
cause by this and other early writings. In-
deed her entire literary career has been an
object lesson in woman’s capacity as a
political thinker and writer.
	It is a singular anomaly that a woman
who exerted all her life so strong an in-
fluence on American politics should never
have been allowed to vote.—Woman's
Journal.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

SATURDAY, NOV. 23
	WE were to spend the morning at
Palatine Hill, there is so much of interest
to be seen—we drive early, changing the
road each time that we may see the different
points; so first to the Tarpeian Rock, under
which Tarpeia was buried and afterward
named for her, and from which the Christ-
ians were precipitated, then to Ghetto (Jews
quarter) and Portico of Octavia, again to
the Forum just to view the ruins of past
greatness and supremacy; also to view the
Hill from this point. The Caesars could
come from the Hill to the Forum under-
ground. The Prof. called our attention to
some iron bars,—looking down these was a
small stream of water which runs into the
aqueducts, “A lake or morass suddenly
appeared in the Forum; the Oracle said it
would never close until Rome threw into it
its most precious possessions; thereupon M.
Curtius a Roman youth, devoted himself to
the infernal gods for the safety of his
country. Arming himself he mounted his
horse and they plunged into the abyss—
which instantly closed over him.” 362 B.
C. This marks the spot where they leapt
in. We now left the carriages to ascend
the Hill, passing the house where St. Paul
lived, then to the Wolf’s Cave, under the

[Column 2]
Palace, and walled over, leaving it as it was
when, according to tradition, Romulus the
founder of Rome, the son of Mars and Ilia,
and twin brother of Remus; the twins were
thrown into the Tiber by their mother and
were cast ashore at this point, where they
were suckled by a she-wolf till they were
rescued by Faustulus, a shepherd who
brought them up. Disputes arising between
them as to who should rule Rome, Romulus
caused Remus to be slain. Plutarch says
they were the sons of Rhea Sylvia, daughter
of Numitor King of Alba. She was among
the Vestals, but being delivered of these
two children, declared the god Mars was
their father. Amulius who had usurped
the throne of Numitor, his brother,
caused the children to be thrown into the
Tiber, where they were found by Faustulus.
Romulus put Remus to death and after-
ward founded Rome.
	Ascending the Hill we had splendid
views of the city, Islands of Tiber and the
river; it is deep but only about 200 ft. wide,
rises in the Appennines and falls into the
Mediterranean about fifteen miles below
Rome. I was disappointed in the river.
Lord Macauley says in ‘‘Lays of Ancient
Rome,”
	“Never I ween did swimmer,
		in such an evil case,
	Struggle through such a raging flood,
		Safe to the landing place;
	But his limbs were borne up bravely,
		By the brave heart within,
	And our good father Tiber
		Bore bravely up his chin.”
	“Cocles, a celebrated Roman, though
wounded and impeded by his arms and
armour, leapt into the Tiber and swam
safely across.” Don’t know what there is
about that to make me imagine the Tiber a
mile wide; perhaps it was larger then; many
of our streams that were once torrents are
now only bubbling brooks. The Palaces
of the Caesars covered this hill, and in the
time of Nero—portions of the neighboring
ones. Enough of the ruins remain to tell
us of their splendor; brick encased in mar-
ble all differing one from another, built at
different epochs and separated by streets
and squares. The house of Augustus is
most ancient, situated on the side of the
Circus Maximus northeast angle of the hill;
the house of Tiberius on the Valabruse; the
house of Caligula at the northeast angle
upon the Forum; the house of the infam-
ous Nero, the Caesar celebrated for his
cruelty and vice. It is said he was in the
habit of visiting the meanest taverns and
scenes of depravity during the night.
Among his ugly deeds was a resolve to burn
Rome and build a greater. In A.D. 64,
he caused the city to be set on fire in differ-
ent places, the conflagration lasting nine
days during which time he placed himself
on the top of a tower and sang of the de-
struction of Troy, accompanying himself
on a lyre; of the fourteen city wards three
were entirely, and seven nearly destroyed,
many costly and old monuments and many
masterpieces of Greek art were destroyed.
Nero’s golden house on the S. side of
the Esquiline Hill, soon after his death fell
into decay; on the site of the artificial lake
between the gardens, Vespasian began to
build the Coliseum; part of this golden
palace was utilized by Titus as a foundation
for his baths; they point out the towers
where Nero sat, but doubtful,as there were
several in that vicinity at the time.


[Column 1]
	We stood where Paul appealed as a Ro-
man citizen to Caesar; there are fragments
of the confessional and judgment seat at
which these two men met face to face as
prisoner and judge. “And he found no
fault in him.” It was not Nero who con-
demned him to death; we know this spot to
be authentic, as there was no other place
where he received the people.
	We next saw the house of Germanicus
on Palatine Hill in perfect preservation,
the interior decorations were beautiful, the
pictures which decorated the walls are con-
sidered as the best among those found at
Rome. As we turned away to examine
the gardens, which were beautiful, I asked
the guard whose duty it is to see that tour-
sts take nothing, if I might have an ivy
leaf that clung to the wall. He smiled and
replied yes, giving me also a rose.
	Near the temple of Vesta was a beautiful
statue—in fragments—of one of the Vestal
virgins; it was magnificently sculptured.
Vesta a goddess, daughter of Rhea and
Saturn; the Palladium, a celebrated statue
of Pallas was supposed to be preserved
within the sanctuary where fire was contin-
ually burning. The Vestal virgins, (priest-
esses consecrated to the service of Vesta,)
were required to be of a good family and
free from blemish and deformity. One of
their duties was to see the sacred fire was
not extinguished; they were sworn to vows
of chastity and if broken were buried alive.
They were ten years in preparation, ten in
service, ten in retirement, taking thirty
years of their life. ’Tis said but seven of
their number ever broke their vow. We
had a very interesting lecture while view-
ing the extensive remains of the Stradium.
All the Emperors built booths, each en-
deavored to eclipse the other in structure
and magnificence. It is said when Diocle-
tian built his on Viminal Hill he employed
40,000 soldiers, then destroyed all the
workmen. Baths were deemed a necessity,
but Alexander Servius first permitted the
people to use them at night.
	Augustus bought and placed in the tem-
ple of Caesar that beautiful painting by
Appellas, “Venus rising from the sea.”
We now visited the Scala Santa, a flight
of 28 marble steps reputed to be from the
house of Pilate. Charlemagne, who was
crowned Emperor of Rome and assumed
the title of Caesar and Augustus on Christmas
Day, 800, in the old Cathedral of St. Peter,
was the first man of unmixed blood who
became Emperor of Rome. Luther’s visit
marks the begining of the Reformation,
“To visit the fountain head of Christian
faith, seeking help and guidance. Roderigo
was Pope; all know the crimes wrought in
his time under the shadow of St. Peter.”
People ascend these stairs on their knees
saying a prayer on each step, thereby gain-
ing indulgence of a thousand years. Luth-
er ascended half way up when he suddenly
stood erect, and lifting his face heavenward
turned and walked slowly down. He said
as he toiled up the stairs it seemed a voice
as if from heaven whispered to him the old
well known words which had been his
battle cry in so many victorious conflicts.
“The just shall live by faith.”
	Sunday 24. Raining; so with a cheer-
ful wood fire in my room remain in, letter
writing.
	Monday, Nov. 25. Breakfast early, off
for Tivoli, a fashionable resort in the time
of Horace, to explore the temples, grottoes,
villas and ruins of the locality. Along the

[Column 2]
Campagna plain we saw the beautiful effect
of light on the broad rolling landscape; we
saw the peasants in their bright colored
costumes, and the old watering place or
health resort sulphur springs, and frag-
ments of aqueducts. The Campagna is
bounded on North by the Cinimian For-
est, on the West by the sea, East by the
Appennines Chain of the Sabine Mountains
Labuie, once covered with feudal castles
and cities, but were all buried under the
eruption of Vesuvius; passed through the
Alban Mountains; the olive trees were old
and full of fruit, the air and woods full of
delicate perfume; crossed the Arno and
soon reached the old town, the streets were
just wide enough for us to pass; you could
look into the houses, and the smells, oh
my! The girls were pretty with dark com-
plexions and bright eyes, and black tresses
We saw several dwarfs just my ideal from
goblin stories, very tiny with monstrous
head and feet. We crossed the bridge and
went to a chalet on the hill, near the cas-
cades; our lunch was prepared in the thea-
tre which had windows opening on the
veranda, from which superb views of the
town and a rectangular Ionic temple were
to be seen; the gardens were most beauti-
ful. We walked to the cascades, they are
formed by the Arno as it falls into the
Tiber. The walks were through the forest
and all terraced; we climbed to the new
waterfall 330 ft. in height; this fall is arti-
fical being formed by diverting parts of the
water of Arno into a new channel by
means of two long tunnels through the
limestone rock. This was done to prevent
the inundations like that of 1826, which
destroyed a part of the village. We walked
down to the Sibyls Cave, looking up, the
three cascades were to be seen; they are in-
deed beautiful. Returning to chalet we
had an excellent dinner, the host himself
attending to us with all the grace of a
Beau Brummel; we promised to send our
friends there.
							KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS HELEN V. CRAWFORD, the gifted
elocutionist who so ably officiated at the
Portland Woman’s Congress as chief read-
ing clerk, has been chosen as Professor of Elo-
cution for the Agricultural College at Cor-
vallis Ore.
	MISS FRANCES GRAHAM FRENCH, of the
Bureau of Education (better known to the
readers of the Woman’s Journal as our
correspondent “Graham”) and Mrs. Belva
A. Lockwood have been, appointed by the
State Department to represent the United
States at the second International Congress
of Charities, and the second international
Congress for the Protection of Children, to
open at Geneva on Sep. 15. They also ex-
pect to be present at the International Peace
Congress at Budapest, and the International
Woman’s Congress which will open at Ber-
lin, Sep. 19.— Woman’s Journal.


IN MEMORIAM
		'The parted spirit
Knoweth not our sorrow? Answereth not
Its blessing to our tears?”


“THE circle is broken—one seat is forsaken—
One bud from the tree of our friendship is shaken,
One heart from among us no longer shall thrill
With joy in our gladneas, or grief in our ill.”
	Mrs. Ellen Curtis Spencer Clawson was a
member of the Reapers Club at its first or-
ganization, Oct. 3, 1892, and which now
has an enrollment of some sixty members.
She is the first to be called to the “Heaven-
ly Home.” There is not a member whose
heart is not pained in the loss of so kind
and sweet a friend. To look upon her of
late the feeling would creep into the heart,
that she was daily growing more ethereal
and spirituelle by the paleness of her classic
face, and the liquid depth of her clear eye.
The mother love was as a filled quiver and
her many gifted children are evidence of
her refined, poetic influence and training.
As a club we shall miss her interesting-
papers as her name comes around in the
roll. She read with a low, sweet, sympa-
thetic voice that lulled all hearts in peace
and chained them in sympathy. Sweet
friend we miss thee! yet mourn not that
thou so worthy hast been called to a holier
sphere, where pain, and death, and sorrow
can pierce thy gentle heart no more—
“The heart ever open to Charity’s claim
Unmoved from its purpose by censure or blame
While vainly alike in her eye and her ear
Fell the scorn of the heartless, the jesting and
	jeer.
As a cloud of the sunset, slow melting in heaven
As a star that is lost when the daylight is given
As a glad dream of slumber, which wakens in
	bliss,
She has passed to the world of the holy, from
	this.”
	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
	JULIA DRUCE,		}Committee.
	LUCY B. YOUNG,


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	ADOPTED by the officers and members of the
Thomas Fork Relief Society in memory of our
beloved sister, Samantha Adeline Hoops, who de-
parted this life July 15, 1896, at her home in
Thomas Fork, Bear Lake Co. 
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved
sister, Samantha Hoops, be it
	RESOLVED, That while we bow in humble sub-
mission to the will of Him “Who doeth all things
well,” we do recognize in her death the loss of a
faithful member in our society, a true friend, a
devoted wife and mother and a true Latter day
Saint.
	We also recognize in her faithful labors and de-
votion to the cause of truth, an example worthy
the emulation of our Society.
	RESOLVED, That we sincerly sympathize with
the bereaved husband, Brother Francis M.
Hoops, her. children and her friends in the loss
of faithful wife, a loving mother and sincere
friend.
	Also that these resolutions be placed on the
records of the Thomas Fork Relief Society, and
be published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and
that a copy be sent to the family of our dear de-
parted sister with these lines selected:
	A gentle woman’s gone to rest;
		A gentle mother’s voice is still;
	Sweet children and a husband kind
		Bow humbly to the Father’s will.
	The loss we feel is sister’s gain— 
		A Heavenly bliss is her reward,
	For while on earth she ever strove
		To faithfully obey the Lord.
	And those who mourn for mother, wife
		May they find peace from God above;
	And if they lead as pure a life,
		Again they’ll know a mother’s love.
								A MEMBER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO A VETERAN.

Dear Sister Wells:
	According to previous appointment a few
sisters, thirteen in number, met at the
residence of Sister Howd Aug. 24, to com-
fort and cheer her in her affliction. You
have heard, perhaps, how she met with an
accident on June 7, which laid her upon a
bed of sickness and deprived her of the use
of her right limb. She has now so far re-
covered as to be able to sit up, but cannot
use her limb to walk. The sisters surprised
her completely, and she felt pleased and
grateful that we had thought of her. By
request of Sister Howd we held a little
meeting, Sister R. W. Tyler presiding.
Opened by singing and prayer, after which
all the sisters expressed themselves as
happy and thankful in meeting with Sister
Howd and seeing her so far recovered.
Sister Howd testified that it was only
through the power of God and the prayers
of the faithful brethren and sisters that she
had been restored thus far, and she felt that
He would continue to bless her until she
could walk. Sister Tyler said whomsoever
the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and afflic-
tions cause us to draw near to our heavenly
Father.
	At the close of the meeting a bounteous
picnic was served in an adjoining room.
Sister Howd was carried in her chair and
placed at the head of the table, and all had
a feast of good things as they had previous-
ly enjoyed a feast of the Holy Spirit.
	A sweet and heavenly influence prevaded
during all the proceedings, and we left
Sister Howd feeling much better. It is the
intention to visit in a similar manner, other
sisters who are confined to their homes, as
we cannot honor too much these aged ones
who, having spent their lives in humbly
serving God, are now drawing close to the
other side.
	Respectfully your sister in the Gospel,
						   L. W. JONES.
BEAVER, Aug. 31, 1896.


RECEPTION TO THE LADIES LITER-
ARY CLUB.

	ON Friday, the 11th of September, all
members of clubs belonging to the Utah
Federation were invited to the opening day
exercises of the Ladies Literary
Club, and to an informal reception
tendered Mrs. Corinne M. Allen, the re-
tiring president of the club.
	The large room on the second floor of the
Executive Building was beautifully decor-
ated for the occasion with trailing vines and
bright-hued autumn flowers.
	Mrs. Allen, who is the wife of Represen-
tative C. E. Allen, spent last winter at the
national capital and while there she visited a
number of woman’s clubs and she thinks
ours compare favorably with any of them,
though of course they have the advantage
of us in being so located as to get items of
interest almost if not quite as soon as the
newspapers. As far as the Federation is
concerned we are in advance—only twelve
out of a possible fifty are members of the
District Federation, while in Utah every
club of any size or influence has joined the
Utah Federation.
	After Mrs. Allen’s report Mrs. La Barthe,
the new president, was conducted to the
chair; she was greeted with prolonged ap-
plause and at its close made a most eloquent


address thanking the ladies for their greet-
ing and outlining the work of the club for
the coming year At the close of Mrs. La
Barthe’s speech the invited ladies went for-
ward to shake hands with Mrs. Allen and
welcome her home and partake of dainty
refreshments served by ladies, amid sweet
strains of music. 
						D. I. S.


OUGHT WOMEN TO WANT TO 
VOTE?

BY RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
	IN a republican form of government the
vote means the power to control the condi-
tions of living; ought not the mothers of
the land to be interested in this? Have
they not opinions worth the counting as to
the conditions, moral, mental and physical,
under which their children shall grow to
manhood and womanhood, or struggling
against which they shall fill an early grave?
	When in this great nation (great in ex-
tent, in wealth and in number,) we know
there are public schools in which one teacher
is supposed to instruct (?) over one hundred
little children at each session; when in some
of our cities there are thousands of children
unable even to gain admission to our public
schools; when the death rate in certain por-
tions of New York City among its tene-
ments is six times the average of the city
in general—ought not the women of the na-
tion to wish fervently for the power to help
the best men in their struggle to bring
about a better condition of things?
	With all our boasts concerning our great
and grand Republic, we have an oligarchy
of sex under which we enjoy mismanaged
municipalities, states in which the office
holders seem to regard the government
as their own peculiar prey, and a national
government apparently incapable of coping
with the great crying needs of our people.
Women have opinions worth considering on
all these men-made conditions. I am safe
in saying there is not a woman in a hundred
in these days, who has not an opinion upon
the issues which will be voted upon in No-
vember, nor are they chary of expressing
their opinions; I believe they will compare
favorably with the opinions of men as to
common sense and information, yet many
of these same women would think it unwor-
thy to express an opinion by casting a ballot
which would crystallize it into law!
	There has never been a time in all our
history when the American Republic so
much needed the help of all who are inter-
ested in the perpetuity of this nation; wo-
men as a part of the nation ought to feel
themselves bound to give their best thought
and work to its support, yet only in Wyo-
ming, Colorado and Utah will the vote of wo-
men be cast in November to help decide the
policy of our government during the next
four years.—Ex.


THE September “Godey’s” has an inter-
esting article on Anna Ella Carroll proving
the fact already acknowledged by commit-
tees of Congress, that she was the author
of the plan that saved the Union.

	MRS. MARY A. DAVIS of North Sutton,
N. H., is chairman of the school board in
her town. She is also, it is said, the sec-
ond woman appointed notary public in New
Hampshire.


MRS. HATTIE M. WATERBURY, of Chip-
ley, Florida, has been appointed a notary
public for the State at large, by Governor
Mitchell. Among other legal acts she can
perform the marriage ceremony.
	MISS MARY ABIGAIL DODGE, better
known under her pen name of Gail Hamil-
ton, died of paralysis, Aug. 17, at her home
in Hamilton, Mass., aged 66 years. She
was one of the wittiest and most forcible
writers of her day, and has made her mark
in politics, religion and philanthropy. Her
published works consist principally of c[-]l-
lections of fugitive writings called out by
passing events, of which she was a close
observer and keen critic. She took for a
pen name the last syllable of Abigail and,
with the name of her birthplace, Hamilton,
formed the pseudonym “Gail Hamilton.”
	Some interesting details are given in the
Australasian Review of Reviews concerning
the recent general election in South Aus-
tralia. The occasion was the first time that
women have exercised the franchise, and
if any doubt existed as to whether women
themselves desired to be clothed with func-
tions of a comple[-]e citizenship, the ballot
boxes were a final answer to that doubt.
The rolls included 77,494 male adults and
59,066 women voters; the act of voting
for South Australian women, was of course
new and strange, yet they voted in solid
battalions, and, as the small number of in-
formal votes showed, with signal intelli-
gence; and the percentage of voting among
women voters was quite as high as that of
the stronger sex. The women of South
Australia, in a word, take the franchise
quite seriously.—Ex.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Instructor in the School of Ob-
stetrics and Nursing.
	The winter session opens Oct. 12, 1896, with
greatly improved facilities for education in this
important branch of study. Reduced prices to
societies. For further information communicate
with Ellis R. Shipp M. D., 75 Center St. Salt
Lake City. Telephone 555.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For farther particulars please com-
municate with 	DR. PRATT,
226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 49

VOL. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1896.	NO. 7.


CONTENTS:
	Thread—M. C. Woods. Leaves From. My
Journal—Kim. Sixtieth Wedding Anniversary—
Alice M. Tyler Tanner. Idaho Equal Suffrage
Planks. Ellen Hartwell—Camelia. In Memoriam.
Relief Society Conference—L. D. Alder. Wed-
ding Anniversary—Alice M. T. Tanner. Forest
Dale Relief Society.
	EDITORIAL:—Among The Pines. Women In
Politics. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—My Ship—Elizabeth Akers Allen.
A Year After Marriage—Lulu. Unfinished—
Lydia D. Alder.


MY SHIP.

DOWN to the wharves, as the sun goes down,
	And the daylight’s tumult and dust and din
Are dying away in the busy town,
	I go to see if my ship comes in.

I gaze far over the quiet sea,
	Rosy with sunset like mellow wine,
Where ships like lilies lie tranquilly,
	Many and far—but I see not mine.

I question the sailors every night,
	Who over the bulwarks idly lean,
Noting the sails as they come in sight,
	“Have you seen my beautiful ship come in?”

“Whence does she come?” they ask of me, 
	Who was her master? and what her name?’ 
And they smile upon me pityingly
	When my answer is ever and ever the same. 

Oh, mine was a vessel of strength and truth;
	Her sails were as white as the young lamb’s
		fleece,
She sailed long since from the port of Youth;
	Her master was Love, her name was Peace.

And like all beloved and beauteous things,
	She faded in distance and doubt away
With only a tremble of snowy wings,
	She floated swan-like down the bay.

Carrying with her a precious freight,
	All I had gathered by years of pain—
A tempting prize to the pirate Fate;
	And still I watch for her back again.

Watch for the earliest morning light
	Till the pale stars grieve o’er the dying day,
To catch the gleam of her canvas white
	Among the islands that gem the bay.

But she comes not yet; she will never come
	To gladden my eyes and my spirit more;
And my heart grows hopeless and faint and dumb
	As I wait and wait on the lonesome shore,

Knowing the tempest and time and storm
	Have wrecked and shattered my beauteous
		bark;
Rank seaweeds cover her wasting form, 
	And her sails are tattered and stained and dark.
But the tide comes up, and the tide goes down,
	And the daylight follows the night’s eclipse;
And still, with the sailors tanned and brown,
	I wait on the wharves and watch the ships.

And still with a patience that is not hope,
	For vain and empty it long hath been,
I sit on the rough shore’s rocky slope
	And watch to see if my ship comes in.
				ELIZABETH AKERS ALLEN.


[Column 1]
THREAD?
	CERTAINLY, one of the very commonest
of necessities of human invention, as well
as one of the two oldest, since our mother
Eve must have used some sort of thread to
sew the strings on her fig leaf apron. Of
all the different kinds of thread, none ap-
peal more strongly to our imagination and
interest than the “Thread of Destiny.”—
The ancient Romans and Greeks imagined
a grave maiden called Clotho, spun from
her distaff the destiny of man, and as she
spun, one of her sisters, Lachesis, worked
out the events wh[-]ch were in store, and
Atrops, the other sister, cut the thread at
the point when death was to occur. There
are many curious stories and legends about
thread among them the one of “A St.
Thomas Thread.” The tale is that St.
Thomas planted Christianity in China and
then returned to Malabar; here he saw a
huge timber floating on the sea near the
coast, the King endeavoring with a force
of men and elephants to haul it ashore, but
it would not stir. St. Thomas desired
leave to build a church with it, and his re-
quest being granted he dragged it easily
ashore with a piece of pack thread.
	You remember the story of the Greek
maiden Arachire, who was so vain of her
skill with the needle and thread that she
defied Minerva to contest and so excited the
ire of the goddess that she changed her into
a spider, that she and her posterity might
spin thread forever.
	The first thread of which we have any
record, was that from which the first piece
of manufactured cloth was produced on the
surface of this Terrestial globe by an ingen-
ious artisan of “Nodville,” and whose
name (as his Holiness Pope Alexander
tells us) was Arkite Ghiden Glselen; it
was akin to what we call matting and was
produced of thread made of leaf stems and
fibers. The next obvious improvement in
thread was the twisting of the peel of rush-
es into fine strings, by which means supe-
rior textures were produced, but this was
not till after the death of Methuselah.
Threads from the first were used to weave
matting on a flexible sort of cloth, where-
with our ancestors covered their nakedness
and consequently after the first discovery
numerous experiments were made with the
fibres of different plants, among them,
hemp and flax, to produce as fine filaments
as possible; and I can’t help thinking that
the first idea of spinning with the distaff
was taken from the much abused little
spider, and no doubt exists in my mind, as
to Eve having taken lessons in sewing
from the deft little tailor bird. Gilroy says,
“We are creditably informed, that the de-
cendants of our first parents obtained the
knowledge of spinning flax into thread, by
supernatural agency.”
	Thread of gold, silver, silk, flax, wood
and cotton were known to the ancients, as
far back as we have any authentic history.
In the Bible we have constant allusions to
embroidery and raiment of fine needle work
and the embroidery of Pomegrantes of
purple and blue and scarlet, around the

[Column 2]
hem thereof, of the High Priests robe.
The Grecian ladies were celebrated in very
early times for their skill in embroidery and
needlework, necessitating certainly the use
of various threads. On the Tombs and
Sarcophagi of the Egyptians are depicted
on the outer tunics and robes of State, edg-
ings of crotchet in gold, silver and divers
colors of thread. The Romans were fami-
liar with gold thread work, and even, as
the discovery of gold needles in the Scan-
dinavian Tumuli can testify, the love of
ornamentation by thread work was known
to exist among less civilized nations of
antiquity. The custom of knightly families
to send out their daughters to the castles of
their Suzerian Lords, to be taught the art
of spinning and embroidery was common in
Europe and continued until the middle of
the 18th Century.
	In the Public Record Office, Eng., there
is a charge of 8 shillings for the silk thread
bought for embroidery work for Margaret,
daughter of Edward 1st, and another entry
for 4 oz. of gold thread.
	The manufacture of thread is a branch of
trade so intimately connected with that of
all ordinary textile fabrics, that you must
pardon me if I lose at any time the thread
of my discourse, and encroach on topics
nearly allied to my own.
	The manufacture of cotton thread is the
outstanding feature of the industries of
Paisley, and is carried forward on a great
scale at Glasgow. From Paisley alone,
there is probably sent out a greater weight
and length of sewing thread, than from all
the other factories of Great Britain com-
bined.
	The manufacture of cotton thread thro’
the universal introduction of sewing ma-
chines, which generally carry double
threads, has greatly increased within the
last 30 or 40 years. The process of thread
making is chiefly carried on by Twisters,
who secure the spun cotton from the fac-
tories; and it is considered in our time an al-
together separate business from that of
spinning. The manufacture of sewing
cotton is, therefore, generally understood
as confined to the twisting or doubling of
yarn previously obtained from the spinner.
When the yarn is received it is tested by
being reeled from the cops (or spindles) and
having a certain length of hank weighed;
this is called sizing. The next process
is winding it on bobbins 2 or 3 ply, as re-
quired; these bobbins are taken to the
twisting frame and twisted, first 2 ply, then
this is doubled or trebled for 4 or 6 cord,
as required. Each yarn has it own twist,
that is, the number of twists it gets per inch.
When finished the thread is taken from the
twisting frames, and according to the size so
much is wound upon a large bobbin, from
which it is reeled into hanks for bleaching
and dying. After bleaching, it is given
out in bundles to the hank winders, who
wind it on large bobbins, and in turn is
hauded to the spooler who fills the spool
with a certain length of thread, 100 200
300 yds. and upwards, the thread passing
through a gas flame on its way from
machine to spool, to remove the hanging


[Column 1]
fibre and render it smooth. The largest
portion of thread made is sold on spools;
after the spools are filled they are labelled
on each end arranged in dozens and grosses,
papered and stringed and finished for the
market. The principal qualities used are
3-4 and 6 cord. A large quantity of
thread is now polished and is known to the
trade as glace; crochet and embroidery
cottons and linens are manufactured by a
somewhat similar process. The spools are
made of birch and ash obtained chiefly from
the Highlands of Scotland. Clarks O. N
T. Jno. Clark Jr., Mile End and J. P. Coats
best six cord come from Scotland, tho’ the
Scotch spindles are only as 1, to 25 of the
English, and their power looms as 1 to 14.
In Great Britain in 1819—the quantity of
cotton thread or yams produced by spinning
was 98,566,200 lb, consumed at home—
80,480,790 lb, exported—18,085,410 lb.
In 1876—57 years later 1,131,056,000 lb
were produced---232,150,000 lb were ex-
ported-- 898,906,000 consumed at home.
The value of capital invested is at least,
£87,000,000 or $435,000,000 which figures
are for Great Britain alone.
	Up to 1791 America possessed no manu-
facture of thread except for domestic pro-
duction and family use, but a cotton mill
was erected that year in the State of Rhode
Island. Today it has become an impor-
tant industry, but the product now exceeds
the demand for home consumption, and
under the influence of protection the very
means we adopt to shut out all other man-
ufactures from our markets, must and does
have the effect of shutting out our own from
the markets of the world.
	But let us leave dry statistics for more
pleasant knowledge. Most of our embroid-
ery cottons, linens and silks come from
France and a few from the Continental
countries. Threads of such gossamer fine-
ness they rival the marvelous filaments
spun by the spiders on our rose bushes,
used for making the finest Brussels lace, is
spun by hand, from flax, in an under-
ground room, as contact with the dry air
causes the thread to break. The spinners
of this “airy tissue” must do the work in
dark rooms where but a single ray of light,
from a narrow aperture is admitted and the
room is so arranged that the faint gleam
falls directly on the work; by the most in-
tense attention, and eye discipline of the
severest kind, they accomplish their pain-
fully difficult task. This fine thread is
worth its weight and more in gold, ranging
in price from $800, $1,500 to $2,500
a pound. A pound is sufficient to manu-
facture lace worth $3,500. No wonder
such workers lose their eyesight in a few
years, or that such fabulous prices must be
paid for such thistle down tissues.
	The finest thread used in this country is
3 cord, used for point lace, 1 sample cotton,
1, linen embroidery cotton loose twist
comes 4 cord, linen 2 cord, hosiery cotton
2 cord, Paris lisle 2 and 3 cord, machine
sewing silk 3 cord, knitting silk 2 cord,
embroidery silk 2 and 3 cord.
	It remained for our generation, so far as
known, to spin the exceeding fine threads
of  glass, so flexible as to supply material for
dress goods, ribbons, ties etc., and table
cloths and napkins. And, so we see,
thread of some sort is the foundation of
modesty, (as we understand it) comfort,
cleanliness, convenience and fashion of the
people of our day. From the coarsest
twine to the finest cobweb thread we are

[Column 2]
indebted to plant life, as even Solomon in
all his glory of purple and fine linen was in-
debted to the humble little lily of the field,
the blue flax blossom!!

	Hoping that the yarn I have spun, may
weave in with the warf and woof woven by
others, without marring the finished web,
I will close like the wearied seamstress, by
cutting off the thread!!!
M. C. WOODS.
WALLACE, IDAHO, Sep. 1894.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	WE now crossed over the river,
passing the home of Horace and had a view
of the cascades and falls, and of the plain
and hills and Rome, the Dome of St. Peter
above everything else, and the sun was just
over it so the effect was fine; then to Ha-
drian’s Villa, it covered a square mile, dates
from the later years of this far-traveled
Emperor. ’Tis said when he saw in any
country anything splendid he returned and
added one like it to this Palace; it was a
marvel of architecture and landscape
gardening. From the 16th Century to the
present day the ruins furnished works of
art, including many of the principal
treasures of the Vatican, and the ruins still
retain traces of mosaic and beautiful colored
marble, inlaying one marble with another,
and glass molded in ornamental relief,
while some of the magnificent grounds re-
main as they were. From here he could
look at Rome and the magnificent land-
scape he used to drive out in his chariot
with his slaves running at the horses heads,
and if one fell dead they passed on. He
built the Villa, paying his workmen with
the lash if they fainted under their burdens.
Do you wonder God buried it all? We
came home just at sunset when he went
down in a bank of gold; soon purple clouds
fringed the gold; it made me think of the
New Jerusalem where the walls are all
jasper and gold, and as the beautiful scene
receded from my view, I felt regret that the
day was ended. At night as the moon was
just right, I drove to the Colosseum and
Forum; there were no ugly shadows, the
Arches, Colosseum and Palaces were intox-
catingly, divinely beautiful. The driver
said “Ladies you don’t know how beauti-
ful Rome is until you see it by moonlight.”
	Tuesday, 26. Taking a last look at the
obelisk brought from Egypt and set up in
honor of Apollo by Augustus, then a drive
on the Pincian Hill, adorned with rostral
columns, statues, marble bas-reliefs, inter-
spersed with cypresses and pines.
	A winding road lined with memosas and
other flowering shrubs leads to the upper
platform now laid out in public drives and
gardens, but till twenty years ago a desert-
ed waste where the ghost of Nero was be-
lieved to wander in the middle ages. The
Eternal City is seen spread at our feet and
beyond it the wide spreading Campagna,
till a silver line marks the sea melting into
the horizon beyond Ostia. Then the Arch-
es which record important historical events;
Arch of Titus, the destruction of Jerusalem
the Jews loathe it; ’tis said to this day
no Jew has passed through it; Arch of
Septimius Severus, the victory over the
Parthians; that of Constantine, the end of
the tyrannical reign of Maxentius.
	The rest of the day was devoted to shop-
ping and packing trunks.

[Column 2]
	Wednesday, Nov. 27. Left at an early
hour for Naples 161 miles southeast from
Rome. Upon leaving the station we took
a regretful look at the enormous Dome of
St. Peter then made ourselves comfortable
for the day. As we traveled along I re-
marked to our guide, “We would call
those mountains, hills in America, what do
you call mountains?” these are 8,000 ft.
high; they did not seem so. The Appen-
nines traverse Italy in its whole length
from north to south dividing it nearly
equally; their highest point is Mount Car-
no, 9,521 feet above sea level; they are not
peaked but smooth and undulating their
bare rocks appearing only at their highest
point. The vegetation covers them up to
3,000 ft., on the lower belts the olive, palm,
citron and orange grow, which we saw on
the tops of some old mountains. We pass-
ed Caserta not far from Naples, noted for
its royal palaces built in 1752 by Charles
III, an immense pile with extensive gardens
called the Versailles of Naples. Excepting
a few Monastaries nothing of special interest
until the volcano of Vesuvius; it was
night and the view unsurpassed. A few
moments brought us to Naples the "City
of Sirens.”
	Arriving at Hotel Royal des Etrangers,
my bedroom was beautifully situated, the
evening was warm, I stood at the open
window and looked out upon the quay; the
beautiful Bay and beyond to the Promon-
tory then to the street below where soldiers
were marching, listening to their music,
thought it delightful to be here. The
city has a magnificent situation, rising like
an amphitheatre from the shore.
	On the west is the Castle of St. Elmo
once of immense strength, which covers
the hill of St. Erosmo. On the seaside are
the fortresses of Castle Nuovo often com-
pared to the Tower of London, and adorned
with a triumphal arch in honor of Alfonso
of Aragon, 1442. The Castle dell Ovo
with its traditions about Virgil probably
built by Norman Wm. I. 1150.
	The city is divided into the old and the
new town by the ridge extending from the
palace of Capodimonte to the sea, dividing
the city into a double crescent. Many of
the streets are crooked, narrow and steep;
the principal Via Roma (formerly Toledo)
winds along the curving shore of the Bay
and is the fashionable promenade of the
city and commands fine views; the lower
part of the street showed us the habits and
life of the lower classes. Some pictures
were striking and unlike anything I ever
saw except Indian scenes in early days.
The beggars annoy one so persistently and
seem happy; along the shore the fishermen
sell you the sea-horse for luck, and one
told me he would eat a devil fish for a sue,
a hidous looking fish they seem fond of.
I replied nothing would induce me to look
at him and he seemed to understand. Of
the large theatres we saw none, the Prof.
told us the San Carlo was the largest and
most elegant. The National Museum is one
of the most interesting and largest in the
world and contains many treasures from
Pompeii and the best bronzes found at Her-
culaneum. The aquarium is most inter-
esting containing a complete collection of
sea fishes. The church domes glitter with
gilded and colored tiles, the Cathedral San
Gennaro contains the priceless treasures of
the Saints and the small phials said to con-
tain the blood of St. Gennaro, which is be-
lieved to liquify twice every year. Naples


[Column 1]
has a number of squares but they are not
beautiful although decorated with obelisks
and fountains, they looked well trodden,
there was no sign “Keep off the grass.”
The Royal Palace at the extremity of the
Via Roma is home like, the young Prince
resides there; it contains old paintings and
many beautiful things, the Royal entrance
is magnificent, the ballroom is handsome;
leading from it on each side are a series of
beautiful rooms where the dancers sit or
promenade. The effect is like that of the
President’s room in the Capital at
Washington, D. C., looking into the mir-
rors the room each side is reflected a score
of times, a most beautiful sight; the theatre
is pretty but does not compare with those
of the Bourbon Princes. The double Balcony
was a dream of delight, with exquisite
views of the Bay and Vesuvius.
	Thursday Nov. 28. A fair day and calm
sea, we determined to visit the wonderful
Blue Grotto or “Grotto of the Nymphs,”
as should the sea be rough it would be im-
possible to enter there. Capri is an island
of Italy in the Mediterranean at the entrance
of the Bay of Naples, and twenty miles
south of the City of Naples.
	We started early and going aboard a
beautiful yacht steamed away to the Island,
the water beautifully calm and blue, the
views superb, the fiery crest of Vesuvius
a striking contrast. Arriving at Capri the
boats were waiting to take us into the
Grotto, two in a boat. As we neared the
entrance the men shouted to us to lie down,
Miss L. was in my boat, we could not sit
up as the opening was not high enough and
is only visible at low tide; the spectacle
was most beautiful. The chamber is 175
ft. by 100 and is 41 ft. high, illuminated
only from the entrance and by the reflection
from the bottom 60 ft. below; the walls ol
the cave, the boats and people were an in-
describably beautiful blue, the water like a
“Lambent sheet of blue flame,” the oars
looked like they were spangled with jewels,
the boys that dive, look when they come
to the surface, as if incased in blue armor.
	Returning to the yacht we now proceeded
to the picturesque village on the Island
where we were to lunch, then drive.
’Twas here Tiberius passed the last ten
years of his life, where he built twelve vil-
las the remains of which are still to be seen,
and the rock “II Salto” from which it is
said the tyrant used to throw his victims.
As we landed the natives urged us to ride
their donkeys up the steep incline to our
hotel on the edge of a hill with remarka-
ble views of the sea and Isles. The lunch
was served on the veranda surrounded with
orange, lemon and cition trees; the natives
sold us beautiful coral. After lunch we
drove about the Island. There were mar-
velous views of villas, garden, and castles
and the imposing volcano which we seem
never to lose sight of. Returning to the
yacht we resumed our voyage to Sorrento
where we were to remain the night. Arriv-
ing at Grand Hotel Victoria situated on the
very margin of the Cliffs we entered what
seemed like a tunnel where the porters were
waiting for us with the information, “The
lilt was out of repair;” so we walked up
this steep incline, entered the gardens and
passed into the hotel. The proprietor met
us and we were shown to our rooms, our
baggage soon followed and we dressed for
Table d' Hote at 7 o’clock.
	This part of Italy has a world-wide repu-
tation for beauty of scene and charm

[Column 2]
of climate. My window commands views
of the Bay and hills. I walked out upon
the terrace, the air was warm and filled
with perfume, the moonlight dazzling, and
down the Cliffs is the swish of the blue
waters; the scene was just heavenly. At
dinner there were other Americans who
came via Gibraltar, will remain two weeks.
The dinner was extremely fine, at dessert,
the waiter passed me something wrapped in
grape leaves “A specialite” of Sorrento,
they were dried grapes of delicious flavor
another “Indian fruit,” which is found to
be cactus fruit. I had eaten the fruit of
the cactus, this was sweeter.
	After dinner we went into the ballroom
where the natives danced and sang for us
dressed in their gorgeous costumes; they
were very graceful. Among the dances by
men and women was the Tarentalla and 
the Zingarella, very beautiful. Their
voices too were fine and they finished the
entertainment with “God save the Queen”
for the English guests, and “Yankee
Doodle” for the Americans; we all rose to
our feet while they sang. The evening
passed delightfully.
						KIM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


SIXTIETH WEDDING ANNIVER-
SARY.

	[REFLECTIONS on the sixtieth wedding
anniversary of Patriarch Daniel Tyler and
wife, by their daughter Alice M. Tyler
Tanner.]
	My dear Parents, Relatives and Friends:
Sixty years ago today a young man and
maiden started on a voyage down the
stream of life together. They were then
in the bloom of youth, and life was bright
before them. They had one grand lofty
aim in view, and pressed forward hand in
hand determined to win the reward
promised to those who falter not.
	Together they have shared their joys and
sorrows and when demons have attacked
their little boat and declared they should
not win the prize, they pressed boldly for-
ward and left far behind those who sought
their destruction.
	Again we see them when the young
man was called to fight for his country’s
cause and leave his dear companion’s side.
She took the oars and guided the little ves-
sel safely on its course until the flag of our
country was planted on this dear soil of
ours, where once the rule of Mexican au-
thority had been.
	Again we see them side by side and as
the years go swiftly by, other forms and
faces are welcomed by them on their little
vessel. Three generations now claim a
share in their love and none are repelled,
but a blessing is ever on the lips of this
dear couple who are now feeble and grey,
not only for their own little crew, but for
the many others who seek their blessings
and counsel.


MRS. JOHN MUNROE, of Elbridge, N.
Y., seventy-five years of age, made a quan-
tity of maple syrup with her own hands
from the trees that grew in her yard. She
then invited her friends to come to her
house and partake of it. By this unique
“Suffrage Sociable” she cleared ten dollars
for the Organization Fund.
	MISS CLARA BARTON, has arrived in
New York. She declines to talk much
to interviewers, but is preparing a detailed


report of her work for the National Red
Cross Society and the Relief Committee.
It will be awaited with much interest.
Miss Barton declares, however, that the
Armenians were starving, and that they
must be helped. “The problem which
will confront the civilized world next win-
ter,” Miss Barton said, “is whether it
will permit these poor people to starve to
death. It is one that demands an im-
mediate answer. The world has a respon-
sibility on its hands.”
	MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL attended
the Peace Congress at Buda Pesth last
month.


A YEAR AFTER MARRIAGE

A year ago today, we knelt
	Before the sacred shrine;
And only peace and joy I felt,
	To link my fate with thine.

You ask me now if I regret— 
	Had I the power to show
What value on your love I set,
	I need not answer, no ! 

Though fond and tender then you seemed,
	And I no scruples knew;
With all my faith I had not dreamed,
	Of one so wholly true.
							LULA


UNFINISHED.

“LEFT unfinished by the author’s death,”
	So I read the other day;
Left unfinished, the author gone,
	There was nothing more to say.

The story was left unfinished, 
	Though the author’s work was done;
And what he had in his busy brain,
	Not known to any one.

Was he ready, willing, or glad?
	His writing was all put aside,
And never another can finish it,
	Though ever so hard, he tried.

“Left unfinished,” what a tale this tells!
	His character left standing alone;
And all because the author’s work
	Was at that moment done.

Thoughts many and varying rise;
	Shall we finish our story in life?
Will our writings be ended and done,
	Nor left where wondering is ri[-]e?

“Left unfinished” the author gone,
	Can never another’s pen,
Trace his thoughts and tell us
	What the end might have been.

Nay! into the Great Beyond,
	The author has journeyed on;
And heart and brain are resting,
	While the story is left undone.

I wonder how many yet living,
	Will have written on the page,
“Left unfinished by the author’s death,”
	On receipt of the dread message.

There is something pathetic about it,
	Sadly I ponder it o’er;
It tells of hopes dead, and untasted joys,
	And now he can write no more.

Let us swiftly pick up the last stiches,
	And make our lives complete;
That it may not be said “Unfinished,”
	When we go our record to meet.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-cla s matter.

SALT LAKE CITY OCTOBER 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
AMONG THE PINES.

	Up among the pines in the Coeur d’
Alenes is a good place to rusticate if one is
weary and needs repose; “the forest
primeval” is brought to mind forcibly in
that land of woods and solitude. Journey-
ing through the mountains in the beautiful
Autumn months when the bright colors
begin to show wherever the frost has
touched the leaves, and the great pines
that never change but are ever green sigh
and moan in the soft breeze of September,
one cannot help growing sentimental, how-
ever practical one may otherwise be. It is
certainly a beautiful country as far as scen-
ery can make it picturesque, and there are
many romantic incidents to help one’s fer-
tile imagination if one hears the tales of the
miners, the mountaineers and the “old
stagers.”
	The mountains of pine and balsam
beautiful as they are, do not form the only
attraction by any means, the outside is not
the most desirable except to the poet or
enthusiast, it is the shining metal that runs
in veins or is deposited in little pockets far
below the outer surface that appears so
desirous to the eye of the traveler; deep in the
recesses of these vast fastnesses the precious
ore lies buried that is only obtained by
patient toil of the pick, the shovel, and the
brawn and sinew of man. All through
these grand old hills one sees here and
there, the sure signs of the miner seeking
the hidden treasure of which men are so
greedy in this day and age, and which
treasure has been brought to the surface,
and to the mint and the market, by those
hardy sons of toil; some have amassed for-
tunes there, and many more have sunk
their all, little or much, as the case might
be in these holes in the hills. Nevertheless
it is a wonderful country and has a strange
history, very much of it yet unwritten.
There is much in it delightful and also
pathetic, much that is rude and wild and
“uncanny” perchance, but if one were in-
clined to the weird and sensational there is
the material with which to weave fiction if
one had sufficient originality of style suit-
able to the theme. Indeed it is tempting
to one given to a vivid imagination to
undertake the task. A man like Rudyard
Kipling with his genius and power, going
into that locality might add vast riches to
his stock in trade, by visiting the Coeur d’
Alenes and seeing and hearing the variety

[Column 2]
of incidents, experiences and explorations
that have transpired, and wrought their
effects upon the country, its people and its
conditions.
	The grand old woods, the clear running
water, the lovely lakes—all these are
picturesque and charming, and together
with the mining and the people engaged in
the occupation of delving for the “raw
material,” or putting up machinery or
other necessaries, and bringing supplies of
all kinds to keep the whole in motion, the
peculiar methods resorted to for amuse-
ment and recreation while all is crude and
hard and as it were desolate, isolated from
all great cities of commerce and manufac-
tures, few resources and little time to spend
upon culture of mind or manners, methods
and habits of civilization, lonely, yet long-
ing for some change of excitement, catch-
ing at the first new thing that comes when
some new arrival makes an appearance,
these old-time, early miners, one can
scarcely call them settlers, present a phase
of character even a type entirely different
to the men who have since come among
them. They have queer notions of their
own, a bond of fellowship, if one may be
allowed the expression, strong and endur-
ing; many of these miners have ended their
lives in their lonely log cabin in the hills
and are buried under the pines, and the
sighing and moaning of these kings of the
forest are the only requiem chanted over
their graves. Sad to think that no one
mourns, or it may be having waited for
tidings when none came, have lost all heart
while the poor wanderer far from his home
and loved ones dies neglected and alone.


[Column 1]	
WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	THERE never has been a time when
greater wisdom was needed in the exercise
of the franchise than the present, not only
in our own State but throughout the entire
Republic of the United States. In three of
these states women now have equal suf-
frage and are privileged to vote on all sub-
jects even for presidential electors, and
every woman should vote her conscientious
convictions, because of the great responsi-
bility which the subject involves. Women
who have looked forward and anticipated
taking part in governmental matters have
argued that woman’s influence in politics
would be for the betterment of the con-
ditions of society public and private, and
now that this great privilege has been ac-
corded them, it behooves every individual
woman to stand for the right and know for
herself, all that it is possible to comprehend
of the affairs in which she is called to take
part. All the questions before the people
in this campaign seem to be of vital im-
portance and prove beyond a doubt that the
nation is bordering upon some great change,
which ever party comes into power, all the
forces of activity in the great common-
wealth are keenly alive to the practical and
economic side of the great questions, and
other matters and influences must bide
until these are adjusted, so the great leaders
of both parties are saying. And therefore
the small part women can take in political
affairs is looked upon as insignificant ex-
cept in so far as swelling the number of
voters on one side or the other.
	In consequence of this very feeling per-
haps women have not been as energetic in
coming forward as they might otherwise
have been; they have not taken the pains to

[Column 2]
go into the Primaries as it was their duty
to do and vote there, many of them think-
ing it unnecessary and others afraid of being
taxed with boldness or a lack of womanly
modesty; but when great issues are at
stake such as seem imminent at the present
time one must consider the well being of
the community and the best interest of the
people, more than ill-natured remarks or
sarcasm, or even their own private feelings
in the matter. Men may argue that the
only question now, or the paramount one is
the financial question and women know so 
little of it in a public sense banks and 
banking or capital and labor that their
participation except in casting their bal-
lots is of small consequence, but women
should exercise all their powers for the pro-
motion of peace and tranquillity, and exert
to the utmost a moral and uplifting influ-
ence, looking towards a hopeful outcome of
the problems that seem now so difficult of
a peaceful solution. Instead of love pre-
vailing, or any sort of “unity in diversity”
of opinions or views, dissension and ill-feel-
ing seem much more prevalent. In a great
measure this may be modified by women,
who though somewhat diverse in their
ideas of right and wrong, are naturally-
peacemakers; and certainly this sort of ele-
ment is needed now, the old maxim or tru-
ism of “pouring oil on the troubled
waters,” is certainly essential in the pre-
sent state of political affairs. It is always
commendable and never unwomanly to be
valiant in a good cause, and here is the
opportunity; and it may require a great deal
of moral courage. Do not be misled with 
fear of blame, remember strong and vivid
qualities are always recognized and claim
admiration when the struggle is over, even
by one's opponents. Men claim that wo-
men are too emotional to be of any practical
use in politics, but after all are men always
controlled by parliamentary usages? His-
tory does not so record their acts. One of
our great historians says, “A nation with
whom sentiment is nothing, is on the way
to became no nation at all.” Women may
possibly furnish the sentiment in politics,
and let us hope it will be patriotic senti-
ment at all events. And in face of every-
thing however dark the hour may be, ex-
ercise that faith in God and His promises,
that will sustain the drooping spirits of
those around and inspire them with confi-
dence.
	Women have been given the franchise in
this hour of need undoubtedly for a wise
purpose. The spirit that wrought upon
the great women of the nineteenth century,
to urge the claim of equal suffrage was just
as much from the Almighty, as that which
inspired Washington or Columbus. It was
in the interest of the great cause of freedom
and liberty of conscience; and no power
is ever given to the children of men
without responsibility, therefore in confer-
ing upon women the right of suffrage,
there is a corresponding responsibility,
and women will not be altogether excused
(any more than men) if this duty is not
faithfully and conscientiously fulfilled.
	Would that it were possible to con-
vince by any force of reasoning those
who are so indifferent to the public weal,
and even to the conditions that prevail
around them in their own locality. How
anxious tender mothers are that their
children should grow up pure, how can
they when the whole atmosphere outside
their own homes is filled with impure and


unwholesome germs? No woman’s child
is safe until all are safe! And yet wo-
men sit contentedly down and say, what
need have I to care, my husband repre-
sents me, or my son, or my father. Yet
remember if you go wrong, if your son,
or daughter, or sister is led away, no
one can represent either of them; that
punishment must be met in person. The
law does not permit one’s husband,
father, brother or son to become responsi-
ble for any wrong committed by wife,
daughter, sister or mother.
	The women of Utah have been given
the franchise at an opportune time, they
should see to it that the opportunity is
not thrown away. Those world-famous
words of Nelson at Trafalgar, have been
echoed round the world since that day,
“England expects every man to do his
duty.” At the present time it seems ap-
parent that Utah expects every woman to
do her duty, as well as every man. And
that duty as it appears to the writer, is
not only to cast her ballot but to use her
power of speech whether it be silver or
golden in the direction of “peace and
goodwill,” and the promotion of harmony
instead of friction and a spirit of conten-
tion. These are days of unrest among the
children of men and a power of control, or
strength of self-control is always helpful
in every trying hour, and under all cir-
cumstances. The women of the Latter-
day Saints who have passed through such
trying ordeals, who have been taught such
lessons of humility and self-sacrifice by
the very force of circumstances, above all
women in the world, should be able to
act wisely in the present crisis of affairs
in the new state. And if they are not
recognized as the peers of men, should
show by their fidelity and faith, their
loyalty and love for the principles of
justice and equality that shine so conspicu-
ously in all times of great undertakings or
of telling events, and eventually cannot
fail of recognition. It is incumbent upon
the women of this people to stand by the
right in weal or woe. The future of
which so much has been prophesied de-
mands that there be no failure in the
moral and spiritual courage of the wo-
men of today. “Dare to do right, Dare
to be true,” and trust in God for the re-
sult.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORAL NOTES.

	AS the cool weather approaches the plea-
sure seekers forsake the mountain retreats
and lake resorts, and are reopening their
houses and making ready for in-door past-
times and amusements. The theatre has
already opened its doors and some most de-
lightful plays have been given and two
very charming concerts are promised for
the present week.
	A BUSINESS meeting of the officers and
members of the State Suffrage Association
will be held on Wednesday, October 7, at
11 a. m. at Room 228 Constitution
Building. All members of Associations
throughout the State, who are in the
city or can come are urgently requested
to attend and take part in the proceedings
as matters, of special importance will be
under consideration.
	THE school children are turning out their
books and pencils and hunting up promo-


tion cards preparatory to the opening of the
city schools and the beginning of the winter
work. While the schools are in a most
promising condition, efficient teachers, plea-
sant buildings and all that, still there is one
most serious charge to make against the
school board, and that is the over-crowding
of the school room. Last year almost every
teacher had twice the number of students he
or she could do justice to, and the rooms
were crowded to such an extent as to en-
danger the health, if not the lives of the
children. If there are no funds for more
buildings surely rooms can be rented and
more teachers employed, even if some of the
salaries have to be lowered. Do not let the
children suffer from badly ventilated rooms.


IDAHO EQUAL SUFFRAGE PLANKS.

	THE following planks were adopted by
the four state conventions of Idaho:
	Resolutions adopted by the Populists
convention: “Believing in equal rights to
all and special privileges to none, we favor
the adoption of the pending woman’s suf-
frage amendment to the constitution.”
	Resolution passed by the Democratic
convention: “We recommend to the
favorable consideration of the voters of the
state the proposed constitutional amend-
ment granting equal suffrage, believing
that this great question should receive the
earnest attention of every person as an im-
portant factor in the future welfare of the
state.
	Resolution passed by the Republican
convention: “We favor the amendment
to the constitution of the state proposed by
the late Republican legislature, including
equal suffrage for men and women, and
recommend their adoption.”
	Resolution passed by the silver Repub-
licans: “We favor the adoption of the
proposed amendment to the constitution of
the state providing for the extension of the
right of suffrage to women; for the separa-
tion of the offices of county school superin-
tendent and probate judge, and for the sub-
stitution of a state attorney for each judic<ia>l
district.”


[Column 1]
ELLEN HARTWELL

	“THERE it is finished and the work is
done if only they accept it even for second;”
thus spoke a young woman as she sealed-
up a neatly arranged package with accom-
panying letter for the mail. Ellen Hartwell
had been teaching her first half year in the
public school and as the holidays approach-
ed and she anticipated a visit to her country
home, she began to realize how much she
would need to purchase the gifts she would
be expected to bring and how little she had
saved from her salary for that purpose.
Poor Ellen, when the salary of forty dollars a
month was offered her, both to herself and
family it seemed a small fortune, for she
had been raised in a country town where
money was a rare commodity and the people
could barter and exchange their different
articles and live quite comfortably if not
luxuriously without a sight of it for months
together, and Ellen had always seemed ex-
ceptionally bright, the parents had made
many sacrifices that she might receive a
good education. Other children it is true,
had to attend to many of the home duties
to give her sufficient time to study and
were deprived in various ways. “But never

[Column 2]
mind dears,” the gentle, mother would say,
“Ellen will pay it all back some day. She
will come home and teach you and help
you along just as we help her now.” Poor,
proud, expectant mother, how many of
your kind are in the world today sacrificing
the whole family that one ambitious, selfish
child may have her desires.
	’Tis true, at heart, Ellen meant well; she
knew the whole family had gone without
necessary things that she might live in the
city and attend the university for the four
years normal course, but one year of teach-
ing she believed would pay it all back, she
did not dream of the many expenses the
city life would bring her for she loved
society, she loved music and she always
had adored nice clothes, besides it was quite
necessary for her to have them on else peo-
ple would guy her and say she was
countryfied and that she could never endure,
not that she was ashamed of having come
from the country, oh no indeed, but she
wanted folks to think if a country girl she
had just as good taste and manners as the
city-bred. So she reasoned and so she ex-
cused herself for her many extravagances
of theatre, and concert tickets, bon bons,
light gloves, fine shoes, dainty waists, her
perfect fitting winter jacket, her feathered
and be-ribboned hat, her perfumes and
flowers and all the trifles which go to com-
pose the paraphernalia of a pretty girl’s
wardrobe. She knew she was pretty and
she loved attention and though she was
rather poor she was somewhat sought after
by girls who had fine homes and plenty of
means, for her society was pleasant and
she always had many admirers. But the
last few days Ellen’s conscience had been
troubling her a good deal; she had received
a letter from her mother with a few hints of
what they father expected her to bring,
and her purse would by no means supply
them. Though vain and thoughtless she
might have been, the last few nights, as
soon as her school work was over she had
been calling to her aid all the intellectual
and literary ability she possessed in order
to write a story in competition f[-]r the prize
of fifteen dollars that a daily paper had of-
fered. The story was at last finished and
the girl co[-]pletely exhausted with hard
work and loss of sleep had now for two
weeks to sit on the anxious seat, for she
would not know before then, what the re-
sult would be. Her fears and hopes were
equally balanced, so much so t[-]at she
dreaded the announcement of the successful
story almost or quite as much as she longed
for it, and at any rate her journey home
would have to be postponed a few days for
she could never face the family without
some remembrance and she had very little
means, scarcely enough to buy her ticket
home. In the begining of the winter she
had promised herself that her mother should
have a fine warm shawl, her two sisters each a
pretty new dress with materials to make
them up, her three brothers, two of them a
pair of skates and the baby, dear, chubby
little Tom a sled, and her dear hard working
father a new overcoat; and now her
one cry was, oh if I only had been careful!
During the school hours the day seemed to
drag and how dreadfully nervous the buzz-
ing lips and scuffling feet of the school
children made her; would the day never end?
how close the school-room felt and how
disagreeable the children were. It was
quite evident Miss Hartwell was not so in-
terested in the children, and their work be-


[Column 1]
gan to tell the story. Complaints reached
the principal and the matter had to be look-
ed into.
	The principal was a rather severe man
though a perfect gentleman and he had
noted the change in his assistant before any
one had complained but he had attributed
it to home sickness brought on by the ap-
proach of vacation, though he was deeply
interested in keeping up the good standard
the school had made, but now it became his
duty to speak to Miss Hartwell quite
plainly of the seeming neglect and the poor
work her pupils were doing.
	All girls like Ellen Hartwell, beautiful,
vain, ambitious and selfish, also possess a
great deal of pride and hauteur and to be
censured for lack of interest in her work
just at this most anxious time was beyond
endurance.
	“Miss Hartwell,” her superior
said, “I am very sorry that I have to
speak to you on this subject but the parents
of your pupils are not at all satisfied with
the work their children are doing; they
claim you have no order in the school room,
and the children take no interest whatever
in their work and are not progressing at all.
I should not have noticed these complaints
just at this time had I not myself discover-
ed something wrong in your school room,
and unless there is a radical change before
the end of the summer the trustees will
certainly supply your place with a more
efficient teacher.”
	What a speech for a conscience strick-
en, anxious girl to hear! At first
she blushed scarlet, then turned death-
ly white as though she should faint,
then a great lump rose in her throat and
she knew she was about to cry, but the
thought of such a humiliation caused her
to muster all her pride to her assistance
and after a few moments painful silence
during which time she swallowed the lump
in her throat, brushed the tears from her
eyes and tried to call back some color to
her face, she slowly and quietly asked:
	“How long, Mr. Barton have I seemed to
give such poor satisfaction?”
	“I have heard no complaint nor seen any-
thing wrong with your school work, Miss
Hartwell, until recently, within the last
two weeks perhaps.”
	“Thank you,” was all she said and
turning slowly she was leaving the room
without either explanation or promise,
when the principal called her back, for
though he had noticed her fondness for
society and pretty extravagances, and had
wondered sometimes if she only had herself
to think of, he had always admired her
punctuality and conscientious school work,
for to her credit Ellen had striven to earn
her money by good, faithful work. She
had said it is such a pleasure to have means
and be able to enjoy it, and her fault had
been she had enjoyed too freely.
	“Miss Hartwell you must consider this
moment well and take no rash step; I
presume you have to earn your living or
else you would not be away from home
teaching, and remember should you be
dismissed from the public school for incom-
petentcy or lack of interest it would be very
hard for you to get another situation. A
past record is always required before engag-
ing a teacher and I would strongly advise
you to lose no time in disproving any state-
ment made against you, by more earnest,
diligent work than you have ever done be-
fore. Give up for the present at least,

[Column 2]
some of the amusements and pastimes in
which you indulge, associate more with
children, call on their parents and be more
particular about their deportment and study
while in school. I do not wish to infer so
much neglect of these duties, but this is
a most serious matter with you, and I
would like to see you look at it in that way;
conquer your pride and submit humbly to
the duty of a teacher.”
	She could stand no more; at first she
broke out in disgust. How she hated those
tattling quarreling children who had to be
humored and coaxed and persuaded this
way and that, and still more how she hated
those abominable parents, who could scarce-
ly endure their own children’s voice for the
short afternoon but expected a teacher to
take a whole room full of them and love
them and adore them and put up with all
their impudence and ignorance and be per-
fectly delighted to have the chance; call on
them! indeed she would do no such thing;
and those horrible trustees always did make
her blood turn cold and her heart stop
beating, even when she saw them ap-
proaching for they were always looking for
flaws and trying to show their own supe-
rior knowledge. She hated the sight of
them all, the trustees, the parents, the
children, the school rooms, the books; it
was all a perfect nightmare. Having
relieved herself thus far by this unwise,
hysterical speech she burst into a flood of
tears; she knew she had done a very fool-
ish thing and all her beauty, wit and pride
would have to be humbled now to the very
dust if she hoped for any favor from Mr.
Barton or had any desire to retain her posi-
tion, and this she certainly did hope, for
what in the world would she do if she lost
it and how in the world could she ever face
her darling parents and her home friends
or indeed her new made city friends either;
oh why was she so weak and foolish! As
her weeping grew less noticeable Mr. Bar-
ton said “I am extremely sorry Miss
Hartwell you look upon your position in so
light a manner and though I am perfectly
aware of the trials of teaching I can scarce-
ly sympathize with your feelings; you
should never have chosen such a profession
if you did not love it. A teacher must en-
joy his work or he can never make a suc-
cess of it. My dinner will be waiting and
if you have sufficiently recovered I think
we had better close this painful interview.”
	There was no help for it now she had to
go, even had she ever so many confessions
to make she could’nt keep a man any long-
er when he said his dinner was waiting, oh
how she hated the thought of eating but
trust a man to turn all sentiment, all pity
everything aside if the thought of dinner
enter his head and for once she was wise
enough to be quiet and withdraw. With
a quiet good evening, they separated, he to
his home and a well prepared dinner, with
a mind filled with the idea he had been
most thoughtful and careful of her feelings,
and yet perfectly just to her; and she—it
would be difficult to tell the state her mind
was in; she knew he had been just, and
she foolish and yet she blamed him, that
he did not consider her circumstances.
Poor unreasonable soul, how could he do
that when he did not know them. As she
became calmer, with her walk home in the
open air, she began to consider this fact
and also the real seriousness of her position
and began to study some way out of her
dilemma. If this school trouble had not

[Column 3]
happened she might have asked for a small
advance of her wages but now of course
that was wholly out of the question, per-
haps her position too was gone. Oh, what
could she do! borrow she would not, even
if some girl friend would be willing, it
would place her in such a peculiar light
with them; after all she had only spent
her own money, and goodness knows, she
had worked hard enough for it. She would
have to write home that she could not come
and send them a few trifles and then, when
the summer vacation came she would have
something nice to bring them. Her posi-
tion she determined to keep, no matter
what it cost her pride she would write to
Mr. Barton a note, apologize and tell him
about her anxiety, her loss of sleep and the
whole truth, and promise to do differently;
thus she condoled with herself and planned
as she walked along and her thoughts
grew more hopeful, her heart grew lighter
so by the time she had reached her board-
ing house all traces of her secret disturbance
had disappeared, only she was a trifle pale.
	“Why are you so late Miss Nellie? A
messenger boy has been here with a note
for you, and he has waited a very long
time for an answer.”
	The note was an invitation to an opera
that evening and she had so wanted to go,
but could she accept under the circum-
stance, she hastily ascended to her room,
examined her wardrobe and saw she must
certainly have new gloves, oh well she
might as well begin now to make her
sacrifices. She had on that homeward
walk seen all to plainly how much had
been sacrificed for her and though no ac-
count had been kept, she fully realized that
her debt was a great one and would take
her a very long time to repay. So she 
wrote a very short note declining the invita-
tion, making the excuse that she was
suffering from head ache which was indeed
true and heart ache as well, for she was
greatly touched. Before going again down
stairs she wrote a very courteous note to
Mr. Barton, in which she confessed her ex-
travagance and how she had over-strained
her nerves trying to write her story, in fact
she told him her whole story, as an excuse
for her poor school work and closed with a
neat, little apology to him for her behavior
that afternoon. The landlady’s boy was
dispatched with the note and it reached
Mr. Barton just as he had finished a very
satisfactory dinner finding him in the
best of spirits. A very fortunate time for
Miss Hartwell. If ever one wants a favor
from a man, try to ask it at such a time, it
will go down awfully well with a good
dinner. Mr. Barton’s wife was a very
kind hearted, motherly woman and though
she had scarcely liked this pretty assistant
of her husband’s, thinking her rather frivo-
lous, still this simple note, laying bare the
girl’s follies, desires, failures and hopes
touched the tender chords of her kind heart
and won her over completely. She insisted
on her husband taking her over to see Miss
Hartwell that very night and talk over her
affairs. Ellen was a little surprised, not to
say annoyed when Mr. and Mrs. Barton
sent up their cards and desired a few mo-
ments conversation with her, she had hoped 
after her note and her own battle with her-
self to have a quiet evening and not to
think of the ordeal she had passed, but she
went into the sitting room quite prepared
for a lecture or two on morality, selfishness
and frivolity or some such subject, with


[Column 1]
perhaps a condescending forgiveness. She
felt equal to anything, for a listless, dulness
had come over her and she was resigned to
suffer anything. To her surprise, Mrs.
Barton met her at the door, put her arms
gently around her and kissed her tenderly
on the forehead. She had never met the
girl before but her heart had gone out to
her and she was one of those few women,
who can love and protect and aid another
woman when the mind is distressed, with-
out words, simply by the tender touch of
sympathy.
	“My dear girl,” she said “we want you
to come home with us and spend this last
week before your vacation, Mr. Barton in-
tended mentioning it before, but men are
so forgetful.”
	Now to tell the truth, Mr. Barton had no
idea what his wife had intended to do, and
he was as much surprised as Nelly at the
invitation, but he saw in an instant how
such an arrangement would benefit her, she
would save a week’s board and as the guest
of her principal would probably stand in a
better light concerning her school work.
She was herself too surprised by the invita-
tion to notice how slow Mr. Barton was to
second it, nor could she at first see any ad-
vantage it might bring her. In fact in her
present state of mind she felt she must de-
cline, but Mrs. Barton refused to take
no, for an answer and was so cordial and
motherly with it all, that Nelly finally con-
sented. The week was very busy for Ellen
Hartwell; she kept her promise and work-
ed incessantly to regain favor with the
school children, their parents and the board.
In that she succeeded admirably al-
though at times it seemed that the noise of
the school room would drive her wild, still
she did not complain or show her annoy-
ance, and her past neglect was soon for-
gotten. On the fifteenth of December, she
received a note from the newspaper and her
hand trembled so with fear and hope com-
bined that she could not open it. Mrs.
Barton knew the secret about the story and
had never doubted that Ellen Hartwell
would get the prize, so with a steady hand
and much assurance she opened the envel-
ope and discovered a check for ten dollars
and the brief notice, “Miss Ellen Hartwell,
your story signed Nelly received second
prize, and will be published after the holi-
days.’’ After all what did she expect, she
was disappointed yet she had hardly dared
to hope this much, at any rate her trip
home could now be taken and though she
could not do as much for them as she had
hoped, and knew her parents expected, still
with Mrs. Barton’s good judgment and keen
bargaining she was able to do considerable
and take home very useful and pretty pre-
sents. The baby’s sled she had set her
heart on and that was the only toy she
bought, other gifts were useful. Her
friends in the city she was forced to slight,
though they remembered her very prettily.
Had it not been for Mrs. Barton’s protec-
tion she might have been tempted to do
less for her loved ones and more for her
newer friends, but that good lady was the
friend in need, Oh, would that all foolish
girls, when their moment of trial comes,
might fall into such kind and wise care as
Ellen Hartwell did. Her little visit home
was most happy and though her sisters
thought she had been rather lavish on her-
self and done little for them, still they were
very proud of her and were extremely
sorry when she had to return to the city.
The father it was, who saw that his

[Column 2]
daughter had indulged herself and forgot-
ten the great sacrifices that had been made
for her, and he looked with sorrow upon
his girls at home as he realized the partial-
ity that had been shown the oldest girl.
The night before Ellen’s return he took
occasion to tell her of his disappointment.
He talked plainly and firmly, yet not un-
kindly of how the mother and the other
girls had worked and toiled on the farm
with scarcely the comforts of life, while
she had had no burdens and had wanted
nothing. The mother protested for she
was so proud of her oldest daughter, that
she was willing to make any sacrifice but
the father saw the wrong to the others and
to Nelly as well for it had tended to make
her more selfish. She acknowledged, to
her father the right of his censure and re-
warded him by a confession of her trials
just before coming home and told them
then, for the first time about her story.
She had learned a hard lesson but she be-
lieved a good one, and she was fully deter-
mined to deny herself and save and help
her family hereafter. This she did accom-
plish in different ways, her salary she was
able to save almost entirely for them, for
her first success with literary work prompt-
ed her to continue it and she was able to
make a little money that way, enough at
any rate for the “extras” she allowed her-
self; they were not so many now as
formerly. She never ceased to be grateful
to Mrs. Barton. Had it not been for her she
could never have gone home that winter
and it was more the sight of the denials
and sacrifices of her family than the talk
she had that determined her course of
saving and care. She fulfilled after all the
expectations of her family and became a
most successful teacher and a writer of no
mean ability.
					CAMELIA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

REBECCA M. WILLIAMS.
	SISTER REBECCA MANNING WILLIAMS was
born in Norwich, Norfork, England, April 22,
1858, and emigrated to Utah in her thirteenth
year in company with her mother and brother
Henry. Settled first in the Nineteenth ward in
this city and afterwards moved into the Four-
teenth and finally settled in the Twentieth,
where she met with and was married to, Joseph
S. Williams in 1876. Their’s was one of the very
few ideal marriages for they became not only
“one flesh” but one spirit, seeing eye to eye in all
the important things of life. She was emphatic-
ally a “help meet for him” to whom the Lord had
given her.
	The young couple moved their home in the
eastern part of the ward so that when the divi-
sion was made they were found to be in the 21st
ward where she preserved the even tenor of her
life until Saturday, Sep. 12th, when she died sud-
denly after only a few hours illness.
	She was remarkable for the gravity and nobil-
ty of her character; life with her was “real,” it
was earnest, it was a means to the end which she
never lost sight of, hence she improved the time
to the benefit, as far as possible, of her fellow
beings even at a personal sacrifice. The writer
recalls having seen her more than once, a young
mother with a babe on her lap leading the sing-
ing for the Young Ladies Association and taking
the minutes, for she was their secretary, and so
efficiently did she discharge her duty that the
Association thought they could not possibly de-
spense with her services; but as her family in-
creased in number she retired into the home cir-
cle and devoted herself exclusively to that great-
est and most sacred of all woman’s duties, the
raising of her children; still for some time she
continued a member of the ward choir.
	She was the mother of ten children, five boys
and five girls, seven of whom survive her. Her
eldest son Joseph is appointed to go on a mission-
shortly, and her last earthly duty was the prepar-

[Column 2]
ation for his departure. We earnestly pray that
the memory of her will ever remain green in his
heart, a talisman against all temptation. We also
pray the Healer of all wounded hearts will make
the husband, children and relatives His especial
care.
								CON.
DIeD—In Salt Lake City, September 4th, 1896,
at 6 a. m , after a severe and lingering illness,
Alice Daniels Weinel. Alice Daniels was born
January 16th, 1823, at Manchester Eng. She was
the daughter of Ephriam Daniels and Elizabeth
Salthouse. Having been baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints early
in the year 1841, in the same year she emigrated
to America. Landing in New Orleans she pro-
ceeded directly to Nauvoo, at that time the
gathering place of the followers of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	One can well imagine that faith and fortitude
were required to enable a young girl unacquaint-
ed with the ways of the world, having scarcely
been outside her native town, to leave home and
friends and travel on sea and land to cast her lot
with a despised and persecuted people; but she
had received a testimony of the truth of the Gos-
pel she had embraced, and went forth undaunted
and fearless.
	After remaining at Nauvoo for a season she
went to Quincy where she obtained employment
at her trade as a milliner. Here she became ac-
quainted with her husband, the late John Weinel,
to whom she was married in the year 1842.
	After the death of the Prophet they removed to
Mt. Pisgah, Iowa, and in the year 1849 followed
the Pioneers to Salt Lake Valley and soon after
located in the 14th Ward Salt Lake City, where
they have since resided.
	In the year 1860 the writer of this brief
sketch first became acquainted with Sister
Weinel, and from that time till her death was an
intimate friend. Many pleasant and profitable
hours have been spent in her company, listening
to her reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph, and
of the suffering and experiences of the Saints,
their exodus from Nauvoo and their early trials
and privations in this new and forbidding
country. Through all these trying times she was
staunch to her religion for she knew it was of
God, lived its principles and endeavored to ex-
emplify them in her daily life.
	Sister Weinel was a woman of great strength of
character intellectual and refined. She never
had the honor to be a mother and for many years
this was a very severe trial to her. Brother and
Sister Weinel entered into the order of plural
marriage in the early days in the valley, and for
all the sacrifices she had made in accepting this
principle, she was amply rewarded by the devoted
attention and nursing bestowed by the sister
wife during her long sickness which covered a
period of nearly five years.
	Thus one by one those who personally knew
the Prophet Joseph are passing to the other side,
but they leave with us their earnest testimony
that he was a man of God, and their faith in the
ultimate triumph of the glorious work he was
sent to establish. May her friends who remain
be as staunch and true as was our departed sister,
that they may be privileged to renew their friend-
ship with her and all loved ones gone before.
								E. S. T.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE regular quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society convened
in the Assembly Hall, September 19, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Meeting
opened by singing "We thank Thee O,
God for a prophet;" prayer by Julia Howe;
continued by singing "Glorious things of
Thee are spoken." Roll called, minutes of
morning session of the previous conference
read and approved. Statistical and finan-
cial reports read, 26 wards having reported
and 24 not reported. The names of those
wards failing to report were read. 
	President Horne said the failure
of these wards to send in their reports makes one
sorry and angry, for the Salt Lake Stake is
looked upon as a pattern. "It is due to
me and all those that labor with me, to be
able to give a full representation of our
labors at the Stake Conference. I hope


this will be remembered the next, time re-
ports are due. We should now be think-
ing of the poor during the coming winter.
We have been taught what is required of
us, shall we not now be faithful? I hope I
shall not have to complain again about the
reports, I want all those who have not
sent them in, to send them in at once, so
that our report will be better for the Gener-
al Conference.” Prayed the spirit of the
Lord to rest upon the sisters, that they
might have wisdom to guide them in the
performance of all their duties.
The 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 17, 18, and 19 wards gave verbal
reports of a very encouraging nature.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock p.
m. by singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Bishop Allen.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Meeting commenced by singing “ Where
the voice of friendship’s heard;” prayer
by Sister Webb; continued by singing
“Do what is right.” Minutes of previous
afternoon session read and approved.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was pleased to
be at this conference. “We should observe
every law that will bring us back into the
presence of our Father. Greet each other
kindly, leave our sorrows behind and en-
courage each other to perform every duty
which comes before us in life as true
women.
	Rachel Grant said “I meditate great a deal
as I cannot hear. We have trials that we
may be benefited. President Young once
said if we never have another, we have had
enough to take us straight into the Celes-
tial kingdom, we should prepare ourselves
for the great things which await the faith-
ful.”
	Counselor Jane S. Richards said through
the blessing of the Lord  we are here today.
This Society was organized by inspiration.
There is much for us to learn, we all want
to do that which we came here to do from
our patriarchal blessings we learn that our
work was planned before we came here, in
these meetings we receive the spiritual food
we need, and receive strength from our
Father. We have been told the day would
come when we would try each other more
than we had ever been tried—therefore “do
good to each other and be comforted.”
	Counselor Annie Hyde made some inter-
esting remarks.
	President Zina D. H. Young said our
Prophet organized this Society according
to the Holy Priesthood, and it is worth our
while to come together to testify of these
things. “ How I wish these benches were
full! I feel that the daughters of Zion are
holy in the sight of the Lord, and pray that
He will bless you all.”
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore her
testimony as did a number of sisters.
	Reports were received from the 21st,
22nd, 23rd, wards, Center ward and Can-
non ward.
	Sister Emily S. Richards made a few re-
marks. President Horne again reminded the
sisters to bring their reports, and felt to
bless all who were present. Meeting closed
by singing “ ’Mid scenes of confusion.”
Benediction by President Zina D. H.
Young.
		L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT is in Cali-
fornia, addressing large audiences.


WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.

Dear Sister:
	FRIDAY the 11th inst. being the sixtieth
wedding anniversary of Patriarch D. Tyler
and wife, members of the High Priest’s
Quorum of which Brother Tyler is presi-
dent, and their wives, also members of the
Relief Society of which Sister Tyler is pres-
dent, and their husbands with members of
the family and other invited guests, met in
the Assembly Hall at 10 o’clock p. m. to
celebrate the occasion.
	The hall was tastefully and artistically
decorated and draped with flags, bunting,
evergreens and flowers. The afternoon exer-
cises consisted of speeches, recitations, instru-
metal and vocal music, an essay, verses com-
posed for the occasion and reminiscences by
the worthy couple, after which an excellent
repast in picnic form was partaken of.
After all had feasted to their hearts content
(and their appetites also) order being re-
stored, toasts and sentiments were indulged
in for a short time.
	I will also remark that Stake President
Sister Lucinda Houd, who has been confin-
ed to her room for some time and to her
bed for some time from a stroke, was
brought in a buggy and assisted to an easy
chair on the stand where she was heartily
welcomed by those present.
	The afternoon’s proceedings being con-
cluded all returned to their homes, being
however, invited to return in the evening
and participate in the dance a few hours,
which they did, all seeming to enjoy them-
selves to the utmost. The aged couple
were each presented with an easy chair
besides other presents.
		Very Respectfully
			ALICE M. T. TANNER.
BEAVER, UTAH, Sep. 14, 1896.


FOREST DALE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	ON the 22nd of September 1896, at 4
o’clock p. m., a meeting was held in the
Forest Dale meeting house in Salt Lake
Stake for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society. 
	Bishop James Jensen and Counselor
Royal B. Young were present. Sister M. Isa-
bella Horne, President of the Relief Society
of Salt Lake Stake was the first speaker.
She referred to the time when the Society
was first organized in Nauvoo by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, which was very
interesting and instructive. The following
officers were chosen and set apart: Cor-
nelia P. Driggs, President, Louisa Steven-
son and Addie Morris Cannon, Counselors,
Sarah Strock, Secretary, Agnes Rumel,
Ass’t. Secretary and Telitha Hendry
Treasurer.
	There were twenty-one members whose
names were enrolled.


DR. GRACE KIMBALL in an interview in
the London Daily Chronicle, describes the
recent disturbance in Constantinople, of
which she was an eye-witness. Dr. Kim-
ball was standing on the steps of the Otto-
man Bank on the day it was seized, a short
time before the attack took place.
	MRS. S. V. ROOT, of St. Paul, Minn.,
has been appointed by Mayor Moran as a
special police officer, possessing full power


to make arrests. Mrs. Root will not patrol
a beat, yet she will wear a star. She desir-
ed the appointment to aid her work in con-
nection with the rescue home, an institution
for the reformation of fallen women, with
which she has long been connected.


BOSTON NOT HIS CENTER.

	A PARTY of summer tourists in the
White Mountains of New Hampshire in
their rambles one day came across an old
hermit. He gave the party information
concerning the mountains, then asked them
where they had come from.
	“We are from Boston," said one of the
party.
	“Boston,” said the old man; “I never
heard o’ that place. How fur is it to
Boston?”
	“Abont two hundred miles,” was the
reply.
	“Good Lord!” exclaimed the old hermit,
“How can ye bear to live so fur off?"


CLARA BARTON is at home, having been
a passenger on the Umbria, which arrived
on the 12th of Sep. Miss Barton will re-
turn to Armenia should the situation call
for the services of the Red Cross Society.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Instructor in the School of OB-
stetrics and Nursing.
	The winter session opens Oct. 12, 1896, with
greatly improved facilities for education in this
important branch of study. Reduced prices to
societies. For further information communicate
with Ellis R Shipp M. D., 75 Center St. Salt
Lake City. Telephone 555.

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.

	THE semi-annual meeting of Stake
officers of the Primary Association will be
held Monday, Oct. 5, at 4 p. m., at 155
North Main Street.
			L.B. FELT, Pres’t.
			MARY ANDERSON, Sec.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with			DR. PRATT,
			226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	
—
VOL. 25	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1896.	NO. 8.


CONTENTS:
	The Pacific Coast Woman’s Press Association
—Frances Fuller Victor. A Letter—Jane S.
Coleman. Jean Ingelow. A Few Words About
India—Dilbhur. U. W. P C.—E. R. Shipp. Re-
lief Society General Conference—E. B. Wells
Journeying In Dixie—Ann C. Woodbury. A Let-
ter Of Sympathy—Camilla C. Cobb—Lydia Ann
Wells—Mary L. Morris. R. S. Reports. In
Memoriam. Leaves From My Journal—Kim.
	EDITORIAL: Moderation And Self-Control. A
Brilliant Wedding. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY: Matinal Musings—E. R. Shipp. The
Eternal Justice—Anne Reeves Aldrich. Wedding
Bells—L- D. Alder. The Heart—The Heart—
Eliza Cook. Wedding Bells—Amelia W. Farns-
worth.


MATINAL MUSINGS.

BEFORE the early rays of morn
Dispel the gloom and bring us dawn,
My heart ascends to Father’s throne,
And all His love and mercies own.
I thank Him for this night of rest  
And that through all my life He’s blest
And watched o’er me, with tender care,
And heeded every earnest prayer.
In peaceful joy my heart responds
To nature’s fair alluring charms;
Each leaf and tree and floweret sweet,
The shady glen and lone retreat,
The babbling brook with mossy side,
The forests grand and deep and wide,
The clear blue sky, the fleecy cloud,
The rising sun that speaks aloud
Of Father’s wondrous love and power
To His frail children every hour.
With solemn thoughts and reverent mood,
My soul pours forth its gratitude.
						E. R. SHIPP.


THE ETERNAL JUSTICE.

THANK God that God shall judge my soul not man
	I marvel when they say,
	"Think of that awful Day!
No pitying fellow-sinner’s eye shall scan 
	With tolerance thy soul,
	But His who knows the whole,
The God whom all men own is wholly just.”
	Hold thou that last word dear,
	And live untouched by fear,
He knows with what, strange fires He mixed the
	dust. 
		The heritage and race,
		The circumstance and place,
Which makes us what we are—were from His
	hand.
		That left us, faint of voice,
		Small margin for a choice.
He gave, I took; shall I not fearless stand?
	Hereditary bent
	That hedges in intent
He knows, be sure, the God who shaped thy
	brain,
		He loves the soul He made;
		He knows His own hand laid
On each the mark of some ancestral stain, 
		Not souls severely white,
		But groping for more light,
Are what Eternal Justice here demands.
		Fear not; He made thee dust,
		Cling to that sweet word—“Just.”
All’s well with thee if thou art in just hands.
				ANNE REEVES ALDRICH.


[Column 1]
THE PACIFIC COAST WOMAN’S
PRESS ASSOCIATION.

	THE Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association has for its object (so says its
constitution) “the promotion of acquaintance,
good fellowship and co-operation among
the women writers this coast, and the
advancement of their professional interests.” 
All women are eligible tor active member-
ship, who are engaged professionially in
journalism— that is to say who write for
pay—and all who are engaged in literary
work, or in illustrating the same. All wo-
men who are simply interested in literary
or artistic work, and willing to labor for
the welfare of the association, are eligible
for associate membership. We have cer-
tainly thrown open the doors widely
enough, and a goodly number have come
in, among whom are some eminent names.
In the promotion of goodfellowship we
have enjoyed, and we believe conferred
much genuine pleasure.
	As to the work a press association should
do, there has been some variance of opinion
—a variance broadened by actual or rumor-
ed criticisms offered by our older associa-
tions composed entirely of men. For my-
self, I will remark just here, that because
we do our work in a way somewhat dif-
ferent to men, it is not necessarily inferior
to men’s work. The difference in work
and methods is a matter of environment
quite as much as of natural tendencies.
Men have fewer ever present cares than
women in the ranks of press writers. The
member of a men’s association usually is,
or assumes to be, only a press man, while-
the press woman frequently has besides
her literary work a school, a business or a
household on her hands. Even the enjoy-
ment of the stated meeting is marred by
the apprehension of a late dinner. The
man who has had the whole day to devote
to an article or articles on these subjects
which are plainly brought before him by
his associations has a great advantage over
the women, who while seeking to do a cer-
tain thing is distracted by having to give
her thoughts to affairs entirely foreign to
it.
	“Very well,” you say, “just that dif-
ference makes the man’s work superior”—
as in fact it might very reasonably do, and
without dispute frequently does do. Men
are in daily contact with the world’s great-
er affairs, or those which they choose to
consider greater; as questions of municipal
or national government, of our foreign
relations, of tariff reforms, or of “sixteen
to one.” But while they are struggling
with problems of shall we, or shall we not
have a double standard for money, women
handicapped as they are by a multiplici-
ty of cares are carrying on a campaign in-
tended to bring about a single standard in
morals. The question might, though it
should not be, raised, as to the comparative
mportance of the two aims; but it must ‘
be admitted that women have achieved
much of value to society in the narrow
sphere of activities, and in spite of a long

[Column 2]
and determind oppositions from the mascu-
line portion.
	About specialists—it has been objected
by some that we, as a Press Association
cannot with dignity lend ourselves to the
endorsements or even to the considerations
of  special subjects outside of the profes-
sion of literature. This is being in a way,
as narrow as those associations which ex-
clude everything but newspapers from
press work. How shall we better become
journalists, if that is our aim, than by dis-
cussion of the questions that relate to good
citizenship, of the progress of the race?
Yet I have been made unpleasantly aware
that on a recent occasion when a gentleman
who had been invited to address us on the
Silver Question, failed to keep his appoint-
ment, and the High Priestess of Woman
Suffrage who was present, kindly consent-
ed to fill the intellectual vacuum, there
was much dissatisfaction manifested. The
venerable woman before us declined to dis-
cuss silver because as she said she knew
“nothing about it except that she had never
had enough of of it,” but she gave us a
timely talk about things which deeply con-
cern women, and imparted to us facts
gathered from a lifetime of work in her
chosen field. The objectors declared that
suffrage speeches were not in order in a
Press Association; yet they were eager to
hear about silver and gold. What a fasci-
nating subject is money! Some one has
forcibly said that “Gold is the only idol
that is worshiped in all lands without a
temple, and by all sects without hypocri-
cy.”
	Why were we not prepared to close the
gap in our program for ourselves by a free
discussion of the popular religion of gold,
which is prefered to liberty? The news-
papers and magazines are teeming with
articles on the subject. Connot we get
as much out of this literature about money
as would enable us to discuss it? But not
having done so should we not—and cer-
tainly the majority of us did—thank the
woman who was prepared on another great
question to speak to us?
	What I desire to impress upon the
Association is that while we are in spirit
and effect a literary body, we must not be
too wholly literary, but that our best inter-
ests lie in the pursuit of practical infor-
mation. There must be a well developed
idea before there can be a literary product
of any value. While we analyze standard
authors, review new ones, or entertain
each other with our own performances in
prose and verse, we cannot afford to con-
fine ourselves to these dines. If, for in-
stance, instead of this we call upon our
kindergarteners to give us an illustrated
talk upon their methods of teaching; upon
our public-school teachers to enlighten us
on the merits and defects in the methods
pursued in the city schools; upon our art-
ists for a technical explanation of the art of
illustration; upon our professor of Botany
for a lesson in science, with an account of
her field work; upon our gifted astron-
omer for a prose-poem describing the fields
of heaven in which she labors while we


[Column 1]
sleep; upon those consecrated women who
while their names are upon our roll, are
devoting their lives to the rescue of the
young and unwary, and the betterment of
conditions of the poor in our own and other
cities—we should be constantly gaining
that kind of information for which every
writer, and especially every editor has a
practical use.
	When we have an outing or participate
in the outing of other organizations should
we not feel to discover something to write
up, which would be a just return for the
courtesies we have enjoyed as well as a
contribution to our own stock of ideas.
	The Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association by its earlier efforts brought
together on this Coast about one hundred
and fifty women of similar tastes and as-
pirations who, else would have known
little or nothing of each other. Aside from
the social pleasures derived from a personal
acquaintance, the numerical strength of the
new association was a triumph. It gave
intellectual women, isolated in various
parts of the country that faith in themselves
which was a much needed support.
	Although since that time the far south-
ern members have for convenience formed
a separate association, while some have re-
moved to wider fields of employment in
the East; and while a few have passed from
the labor of living to the unspeakable peace
of the Beyond, there are still over a hun-
dred in the present organization.
	If there had not been a Pacific Coast
Woman’s Press Association in existence,
much that was of interest to our women
would have been unrepresented at the
World’s Columbian Exposition, and there
would have been no Woman’s Congress in
California. Taking advantage of the
opportunity offered by the Mid-Winter
Fair in this State, the Association proposed
and affected the great undertaking whose
outcome was a surprise to everyoue in the
quality of the intellectual work done. I do
not mean to convey the impression that the
Congress was composed mainly of
members of the Association, but only
that it was projected and carried to consum-
mation by the efforts of certain of the most
prominent press women. The Congress
itself was a thoroughly representative body,
drawn from all parts of the coast, who
came together by invitation to express
themselves on a great variety of subjects.
The manner in which they acquitted them-
selves was a revelation to most people, dis-
covering, as it did, a latent power until
then unsuspected,
	I remember being much surprised by a
remark of the Evening Post reporter at the
close of the second day, that the women
“might have done this before if they had
only known it.” They know it now, and
they are never going back to the silence
and isolation of their former lives.
	Out of that special congress grew the
Woman’s Congress Association of the Pa-
cific Coast, which holds annual sessions. Its
Executive Board and Auxiliary Committee
are composed largely of the Press Associa-
tion. On its floor thoughtful women of all
ranks in life, of all religious creeds, of
every degree of culture, meet upon perfect
equality to give and receive of each others
best. Many decaying walls of prejudice
and usage have fallen which can never
again be erected, leaving a clear field for
future progress in all directions.
	As a proof of this, behold the great ad-

[Column 2]
vance which the suffrage movement receiv-
ed by allying itself with the Woman’s Con-
gress. Not that all the members of this
association, or the Congress Association are
Woman Suffragists—some of both are op-
posed to the ballot for women—but that
the congress gave an opportunity for that
fair debate which women in the past were
not allowed. It cannot be otherwise than
that this enlargement of our liberties shall
continue to broaden our intellectual view,
and with it the horizon of our souls. We
shall ultimately, too, come to get our opin-
ons by thinking, rather than as Mrs.
Browning says men get their’s, and boys
learn to spell, “by reiteration chiefly.”—
the reiteration of other peoples opinions,
which they also had adopted in the same
way. The world never did and never will
advance one step except by liberty in
thought. Let us therefore not fear to think
too freely, while we act discreetly. Some-
where between slavish submission, and ex-
cessive resistance to popular prejudices, the
real truth will be found.
	It is my hope and my belief that the
Pacific Coast Press Association has before it
a future even more useful than its past, but
should it not again find so happy a con-
junction of circumstances, it has done
enough to have made a place in history.
	I could not close this paper which from
its too specific nature I fear may have prov-
en wearisome to our guests, without ex-
pressing my conviction that no member
who has been, or may be compelled to sever
her connection with the association but
feels genuine regret at having to separate
from us. Although not to be mentioned
as of importance the social features of our
organization are sufficient to compensate
the members for any trifling sacrifices that
may be made in its interest. Its social
meetings and outings are marked by the
unconventional and cordial goodfellowship
which is one of the stated objects of our
union. There is talent enough amongst
ourselves, could we combine it, to enter-
tain our friends right royally; but usually
we have gone out into the highway and
brought in our friends to entertain us; per-
haps because we were fearful of not having
that “infinite variety” which “custom
cannot stale,” and prefered to withdraw
ourselves from view. If we have been too
literary to dance we have still piped and
sung, told stories and laughed at them,
cracked jokes and propounded riddles, im-
provised songs and by sharp concussion
struck sparks of wit from the flintiest of
us—in fact indulged in that mild sort of
high jinks which a woman's press associa-
tion might with propriety allow itself. To
all those who whether as hotel managers,
real estate or transportation companies,
have contributed to our pleasure from year
to year in the past, our grateful acknowl-
edgements are rendered, as also for that
which we are to enjoy this year.
	Nor could I close this paper without
voicing the sentiment of regret which I
am sure prevails among us, that rotation in
office while it gives us the officers of our
choice, retires those whom we have learned
to admire and love, not only for faithful-
ness to duty, but for their many charms of
person and character. There is, however,
this compensating feature with rule, that it
brings distinctly before us group after
group, giving us finally a thorough under-
standing of the whole. To our gracious
retiring president, and to each one who

[Column 3]
vacates her office this year, is extended our
heartfelt good will and affection. 
	FRANCES FULLER VICTOR.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


A LETTER.

TEASDALE, WAYNE CO.
				October 6, 1896.
Dear Sister Wells:
	I FORWARD our Conference Report; we
just held one afternoon session of Stake
Conference. My counselors could not
attend, Sister Forsyth had sore throat in
her family and three of her children died;
it was the first time she had failed to attend
an appointment. She is my second coun-
selor and has been a great help to me in
my labors. We enjoyed an excellent spirit
in our conference though short, much was
spoken for our general good and received in
an appreciative manner. We had a number
of young ladies join the Relief Society.
The Stake President of the Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Association advised
the young sisters to join and attend the
monthly testimony meetings, and I am
pleased to note they heeded her counsel;
there are three associations where all have
joined the Relief Society. I enclose the
names of the presidents and secretaries as
desired. We are always pleased to receive
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and profit by its
hints and suggestions on many subjects
pertaining to women. With kind love and
wishing you health and success in your
many labors.
			Yours respectfully
					JANE S. COLEMAN.


JEAN INGELOW.

	JEAN INGELOW the charming English
poetess and novelist, is seriously ill. She
is now 76 years of age and has been very
feeble for some time. She lives in a
quaint little cottage in Kensington with
her bachelor brother, surrounded by her
birds and flowers. Her conservatory is
twice the size of her dwelling, and one of
her favorite pastimes has been to liberate
her feathered friends among the flowers
while she writes at her desk. She has
always had an intense horror of publicity
and dislikes any display in her honor. In
addition to her books of poems, she has
written four novels and various works for
children. Her poems are refreshing and
sparkling, among the best known of which
is “We Are Seven.”


A LETTER from Miss Willard dated Mar-
seilles, says: “I am here with Lady
Henry trying to help the Armenian refugees.
We have two or three hundred in a refuge
that we opened directly on our arrival; the
distress is great. It looked curious enough
(and so good!) to see Lady Henry standing
up in the midst and measuring off the num-
ber of yards necessary to make a woman’s
dress while I told out the thread and nee-
dles wherewith to sew it. Then the men
said if we would give them some of that
same cloth they would make themselves
shirts, so we measured off material for
them too, and for the first time their sad
faces brightened and as we left there was
no end of smiling, laughter and chatter in
the great dreary rooms of the big hospital
wing given us without rent by the city
authorities.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WEDDING BELLS.

[To my children Florence and Neal.]
Again the wedding bells are ringing
Like low toned voices joyous, singing;— 
Show white flowers they now are bringing,
To deck the fair and stately bride,
Who so sweetly, now is standing
By her dark eyed husband’s side.

Joyous, happy wedding bells!
How much of joy your clanging tells,
While on the air your music swells;
How true is Love, how sweet is Joy!
How pure the heart where these abound
Though care must be the need alloy.

Life joined to life! fast hand in hand,
Wander on through summer’s fairy land,
By soft sweet breezes gently fann’d,
While the stream of Time flows gently on;
By its sloping banks gleams the golden sand,
Kissed by the rays of the noonday sun.

Stand firm together! fierce storms may come;
From loved one’s side O, never roam!
List to the river’s gentle moan!
Onward, onward tho’ change be near;
Be true to love that gently binds,
Though leaves grow yellow, old and sere.

Now lowly at the Altar bending,
Where vows eternal are ascending,
While prayers from loving hearts are wending.
Up to the Majesty on high.
Keep them safe O, Heavenly Father,
Let Thy scourges pass them by.

High noon rolls on a pace,
And on the dial now we trace,
The hour upon its clear-cut face.
The vows are uttered that forever,
Link heart to heart, and life to life,
On earth no more to change or sever.

How grand the Temple and the Vow,
In reverence deep each heart doth bow;
Earthly cares are faded now;
And Peace with white and fluttering wings
Falls on the group assembled there
So far above frail, earthly things.

So solemn bells ring’out the sound!
The love of God doth here abound;
Like burnished gold gleams all around.
Slow from the altar rise the pair,
Who thus have pledged before their God
Each joy and ill of life to share.

Prayer and blessings go together;
In both fair and stormy weather;
Cling to God and never sever,
Though the trial and the cross
Doth crush the heart where now is joy;
'Tis only seeming earthly loss.

No cross, no crown.” Be this thy prayer,
“O, Father give Thy love to share
My heart before Thee now I bare;
O, lead me safe thro’ every storm,
O, never, leave me or forsake
But hold me in Thy love so warm.”

Soon wedding bells will ring again,
The Savior come on earth to reign,
To banish sin and Death and pain,
And wipe the tears from every face,
The Wedding Supper will be spread,
May you my darlings share a place.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
October 7, 1896.


THE HEART—THE HEART

THE heart—the heart! oh! let it be
	A true and bounteous thing; 
As kindly warm, as nobly free,
	As eagle’s nestling wing.


Oh! keep it not, like miser’s gold,
	Shut in from all beside;
But let its precious stores unfold, 
	In mercy, far and wide.
The heart—the heart, that’s truly blest
	Is never all its own;
No ray of glory lights the breast
	That beats for self alone.
The heart—the heart! oh! let it spare
	A sigh for other’s pain;
The breath that soothes a brother’s care
	Is never spent in vain.
And though it throb at gentlest touch,
	Or sorrow’s faintest call,
’Twere better it should ache too much,
	Than never ache at all.
The heart—the heart, that’s truly blest,
	Is never all its own;
No ray of glory lights the breast 
	That beats for self alone.
					ELIZA COOK.


[Column 1]
A FEW WORDS ABOUT INDIA.

	I ARRIVED in India in December 1860, 3
years after the great mutiny of 1857 Lord
Canning took the reins of government in
1856 when everything promised a reign of
peace and prosperity; but as is often the
case a time of special calm preceeds the
direst storm and such was unhappily the
case then. In 1857 came the first mutter-
ings of the storm that was to sweep over
so large a portion of British India. At the
commencement of the year chupattees
(cakes of flour and water) were circulated
through the Northwest provinces and en-
closed in them were papers advising the
natives to rise in mutiny on a certain day,
and kill all the Europeans. Some say
that the means proposed was for the cooks
to put Datura or Deadly Nightshade in
their soup and so kill whole families at
once. However whatever the diabolical
means suggested were, it was over-ruled
by a merciful Providence and discovered in
time to prevent its being carried out. This
and treasonable placards appearing at Del-
hi and other suspicious occurences gave
warning of Mohomedan disaffection and
conspiracy.
	The Enfield rifle and its greased cart-
ridge was at this time put into the hands of
the Sepoys (a native regiment) without ex-
planation or precaution. General Anson
the Commander in Chief, was a man who
snubbed caste, and native “beastly
ly prejudice” as he called it and was op-
posed to making any concession to it. The
mutiny first broke but at Meerutt, 35 miles
from Delhi where there were stationed
European troops amounting to 1800 also
about 2900 native soldiers.
	On the 23 of April the skirmishers of the
3rd native cavelry on parade refused to
touch the new cartridge which had to be
torn off with their teeth although permis-
sion had been given them to break off the
end with the fingers. The reason they
assigned was that they were made with
bullock’s fat, and they hold the bull sacred
or pigs fat which would break their caste
to touch as they hold the pig to be an un-
clean animal.
	Eighty-five mutineers were tried and sen-
tenced to imprisonment. On the even-
ing of the next day the native troops rose,
liberated their comrades and the felons in
jail, shot down their officers and the doom-
ed station was given up to conflagration
and massacre. The next day the Meerutt

[Column 2]
mutineers reached Delhi. There were no
Europeans troops to oppose them and soon
the city was entirely in their hands. Nina
Sahab of Bithoor whose claims as the adopt-
ed son of Pishwah had not been recognized
by the government, fanned the insurrection.
At Cownpore the suffering of the Euro-
peans cannot be imagined. When the
Nina Sahab heard that troops were march-
ing from Allshabad and were expected
daily he ordered a deep well to be dug and
into it were cast hundreds of men, women
and children alive and left there to die,
after having been at the mercy of the
native troops for days. Many ladies com-
mitted suicide and killed their children,
and husbands killed their own wives rather
than let them suffer at the hands of the devils
for they could be called by no other name.
	The Europeans in the residency
of Lucknow were besieged on the 30th of
June and were not relieved until the 25th
of September by the Heroic Havelock.
The final relief was achieved by Sir Colin
Campbell on the 17th of Dec. I met with
many who had suffered at that time but
had escaped, some through the fidelity of
their servants for there were many that
were true to their masters and mistresses
and loved them dearly and risked their own
lives to save them. One lady I knew
who lost her reason through the cruelties
she underwent. I must not forget to tell
you an incident of one Ayah, a woman
servant’s fidelity. She informed her mis-
tress that her house would be attacked that
night, and told her that if she would trust
her she would save her and her children,
and proposed that she should stain her
mistress and the children with walnut
juice and dress them in the native clothes
and at night she took them down to the
river where she had a native boat awaiting
them and they were taken into a creek up
the river and lived in a hut for weeks in
her care, during which time a little baby
was born to her mistress. The lady’s hus-
band escaped as a native, after being stained
from head to foot and dressed as a Malley
or gardener. He was one of the leading
merchants of Calcutta, but living about
three miles from the city. Both Cawnpore
and Lucknow are most interesting towns
on account of their tragic history and inter-
esting buildings. I must not encroach up-
on your columns longer now but on anoth-
er occasion I shall be happy to write more
of this interesting country and people
which I love dearly.
					DILBHUR.


ON the 21st of this month the Princeton
University will celebrate the 150th anni-
versary of its foundation as the college of
New Jersey.
	A WOMAN’S club has been started in
France. It has a house furnished by the
President at her own expense. The fees
are fifteen dollars annually, and it gathers
together refined working women, widows
and spinsters, who dine together write let
ters, chat and amuse themselves with games.
	HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD writing
of the late Abagail Dodge, says that she
was a discriminating critic of books and
people and measures; she loved nature,
poetry, children and beauty in every shape.
She kindled brightness in others, and you
felt in her society that you were listening
to the most brilliant woman of her genera-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1896.


[Column 1]
MODERATION AND SELF-CONTROL.

	THE peculiar phases of circumstances
and the environments of the present time
especially in regard to political matters call
for sound judgment and sane-thinking on
the part of all men and women who are de-
sirous of good to the community in which
they reside, or the commonwealth of which
that community is a component part. The
extremes that seem to be a natural conse-
quence of the general excitement can scarce-
ly result in anything but disaffection and
bitterness among the people when all is
over, unless more kindly sentiments and
better methods of campaigning prevail.
Conservative people are considered wanting
in the enthusiasm necessary to carry the
vital questions to a satisfactory result.
Women who form a large part of the vot-
ing population here in Utah have been in
most instances exceedingly modest and un-
prouounced, and it seems in keeping with
the situation. It is comparatively new to
them and some of the conditions this year
are also new to men, consequently caution
is more essentially needful. However, it
has been positively necessary some of the
real work should be done by women, and a
few have been willing to accept the re-
sponsibility and do the actual work without
remuneration or expectation of reward ex-
cept what may come in the beneficial re-
sults that may accrue to all, and the satis-
faction of doing one’s duty. Women the
world over are considered peace-makers
and in the present state of affairs, such
helpfulness as they can render in promot-
ing harmony should certainly be exercised
for the good of all concerned. Women
should assuredly hold themselves above
party feeling and seek for the highest
good of all concerned, and we believe this
is the general idea among the women who
have taken a prominent part in public
matters.
	The eyes of the nation are upon the wo-
men of Utah, and especially in this first
election which is so important because of
the complications that have arisen on the
monetary question. Men strong in the
party to which they have been allied for
years have dissolved their connection with
it and gone over to the opposite party; thus
it does not seem strange if women coming
into practical politics at such a trying time
should be criticised and perchance make
some mistakes.

[Column 2]
	The experiment (as most people call it) 
of nominating women to office and of wo-
men holding office is new except in rare
instances; though in Wyoming women
have been doing duty in positions of emol-
ument and trust for twenty-five years. No
complaints of inability or indifference to the
interest of the public are reported; only a
small number of women are likely to occu-
py public offices for some time to come al-
though men seem somewhat doubtful upon
the matter. If more good and competent
women would attend the Primaries and
Conventions and take part in the proceed-
ings, it would doubtless have a good effect.
	The dissatisfaction of the public mind
has reached such a stage that matters will
not be settled by the election of a Presi-
dent, however acceptable it may be to the
toiling masses, the working people and to
the nation in general. It will take some
time and great wisdom to adjust affairs so
complicated and bring men and women to
that stage of feeling of security, that will
inspire confidence and promote good fellow-
ship instead of the discord that prevails
largely at the present.
	The nomination of a few women for the
Legislature shows the liberality of some
honorable men who realize the justice of
equal suffrage. It is most desirable that
these few women should be in every respect
capable of doing the work which will be
expected at their hands, for should there be
any lack or indifference on their part, it
would have a direct bearing on any aspir-
ant for office forever after. For the good
of the cause and the advancement of all
who are to come after to fill the places
where woman’s work will be effective, the
women of today should help to make these
new beginners firm and strong that they
may indeed be helpful to the state. None
of those who follow will have so much
criticism, as these who lay the foundation
of the new departure in woman’s emancipa-
tion.
	In Salt Lake County two women have
been nominated for the Senate and two for
the House and one for County auditor.
	In Davis County one woman has been
nominated for the Senate, in Weber County
one for County recorder also in Box Elder,
and one in Millard Co. for the same office,
two in Kane County for county offices, and
perhaps these are not all. After long years
of patient waiting women are coming to a
realization of some of the fruits of their
labors in the opportunities offered them for
broader culture and higher aims, and if in
the meantime moderation and self-control
are properly exercised, what great achieve-
ments may we not expect in good govern-
ment and better conditions of society when
all the people instead of one half take part
even in local matters.
	Yet one interested in the welfare of Utah
must not lose sight of the present condi-
tions, but stand for pure and righteous
principles of justice and equity to all
whatever betides; be valiant and upright,
and true to one's own conscience.


A BRILLIANT WEDDING.

	MISS FLORENCE D. ALDER and Elder
Cornelius Schettler were united in marriage
on Wednesday, Oct. 7. at 12 M in the
Salt Lake Temple, Bishop J. R. Winder
officiating in the ceremony. The bride is
the daughter of George and Lydia D.
Alder, well known residents of this city.


and a very popular young lady. The
bridegroom is the son of B. H. and Mary
Schettler (B. H. Schettler is widely known
in business circles) and the bridegroom
has only recently returned from a mission
to Germany, where he also paid some
special attention to music for which he has
fine talent. He was highly complimented
on his instrumental work by learned musi-
cians in Berlin, Germany, where he labored
as a missionary.
	The reception at the residence of the
bride’s parents in the evening was a bril-
liant affair, and was numerously attended.
The spacious parlors were artistically decor-
ated with flowers, smilax and Autumn
leaves, and the happy couple who stood
in the bay window under the beautiful
floral decorations looked radiantly happy
in their new role. Miss Irene Schettler and
little Miss May Alder were the brides-
maids and Wm. McEwan and Ernest
Schettler stood at the right of the bride-
groom, and assisted in receiving the guests
and shared in the congratulations and
compliments, as did the bridesmaids.
	The wedding presents from relatives and
friends were mostly useful articles though
many of them were elegant, among the
gifts was a large Bible presented by the Y.
L. M. I. A. of the Second ward, with the
bride’s name in gilt letters, and inside
the autograph of each of the young girls of
the association. The Bible was given as an
expression of love and appreciation to one
who had been their secretary for several
years, and was a very appropriate gift.
	With the many warm friends of the new-
married couple we extend our hearty con-
gratulations, and wish them Bon voyage
on the great sea of life, and trust their
highest expectations of happiness may be
fully realized.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	IN consequence of the mass meeting of
ladies which will be held in the Theatre on
the 31st of this month, the annual meeting
of the Utah Woman’s Press Club will be
held on Wednesday the 28th. All members
should be present as new officers will be
elected. An interesting time is anticipated,
as each member is expected to appear in
character and give a selection from the
character represented.
	THE Kindergarten Autumn tea at Dr.
E. R. Shipp's handsome parlors on Oct. 15,
was a genuine success, socially it was ex-
ceedingly pleasant, and the music and other
exercises were fine. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edwards song was highly appreciated, she
was in excellent voice, and the association
feels very grateful to her, and to Prof. Mc-
Clellan, the accompanist also Professor
Schettler with his guitar, and to all who in
any way contributed to the success of the
entertainment. The Autumn leaves and
flowers as decorations were most charming-
ly arranged. Mrs. Shipp and her lovely
daughters made every one feel welcome,
also the other ladies who so kindly and
gracefully assisted in receiving.
	ON Monday evening the 9th of Novem-
ber the Rev. Anna H. Shaw will give a
lecture in the large Tabernacle in this city.
Miss Shaw’s great ability, her versatility
and popularity as a celebrated lecturer is so
universally known, that it is hoped the
building will be filled to its utmost capaci-


ty; especially as the object of the lecture 
is to raise means for the Kindergartens in
this city, which are doing such effective
work for the children. Miss Shaw will be
on her homeward journey after her cam-
paign work for equal suffrage in California,
and only comes here to speak at the solicita-
tion of the women who are laboring so
faithfully to establish Kindergartens and
make them a permanent institution in Utah.
Miss Shaw will be accompanied by the
party of Eastern women who have been
assisting in the great campaign throughout
the State of California.
	MISS MARY GREW, who died very sud-
denly (October 10,) at her residence in
Philadelpha, was a most remarkable char-
acter. She was born in Hartford Conn.,
Sep. 1, 1813, and was educated there; she
removed to Boston in 1837, and afterwards
to Philadelphia her permanent residence
ever since. By inheritance and training
she was a radical abolitionist and was
associated with and co-operated in that
work with the heroic men who took so
prominent a part in that early period, Wm.
Loyd Garrison, Wendell Philips and others.
She was a member of the Boston Female
Anti-Slavery Society from its organization,
and after her removal to Philadelphia unit-
ed with the Anti-Slavery Society there
and was its Cor. Sec’y., and wrote its
annual reports until 1870, when the Society
disbanded. She was a member of the fa-
mous Anti-Slavery Convention in 1838, in
Pennsylvania Hall, when it was surround-
ed by a furious mob which destroyed the
building by fire a few hours after the Con-
vention adjourned. After Slavery was
abolished and the 15th amendment to the
Constitution ratified, she devoted her life
to other reforms, principally the enfran-
chisement of women. She was a very
forcible lecturer and an occasional preacher in
the pulpits of the Unitarian churches; and
in Northern New England the pulpits of
the Free Will Baptists, Methodists and
Congregational churches were open to her.
Miss Grew was one of the founders of
the New Century Club of Philadelphia,
said to be the most influential club in the
United States, and also of the Pennsyl-
vania Woman’s Suffrage Association, and
its President for many years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	SEP. 30, 1896, the Woman’s Press Club
met at the office of the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT. Because of the absence of Presi-
dent Wells, Dr. R. B. Pratt presided. The
opening prayer was offered by Phebe C.
Young. Shakespearean Sentiments were
given in answer to roll call. The minutes
were read and with one correction were ap-
proved. Mrs. Phebe C. Young should be
mentioned as having read, at the last meet-
ing, “Margaret Queen of Louis of
France.” Miscellaneous business being
next in order Mrs. Brown moved, and it
was carried, that the treasurer be empower-
ed to buy the necessary books and paper
for the club.
	Dr. Curtis gave an interesting account of
her summer vacation. 
	She was glad to return to our ideal city
after her peaceful respite during the heated
term. At the present time there are sani-
tariums where the panacea for all ills is
found in absolute rest, must not read or write
and as far as possible abstain from thinking.


She had found in the wild woods and peace-
ful rivers of Washington such an ideal sani-
tarium. She had left all care, worry and
political issues at home and had returned a
weightier woman—at least physically.
Rest is fine, and so is work grand. She
felt she had returned not as a stranger but
as one of the press household.
	Mrs. Mary Lambert followed with a
beautiful poem on the Island of Hawaii,
after which the members all joined in an
animated discussion of the paper.
	Mrs. Lambert by request spoke in the
musical language of the Hawaiian.
	After a lengthy and interesting discussion
of the religious, social and moral status of
the Hawaiians and society in general, the
meeting adjourned for one month.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CON-
FERENCE
	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in
Salt Lake City, Saturday Oct. 3, 1896, at 2
p. m., Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding.
On the stand were the Vice Presidents
Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sarah M. Kimball, Secretaries E. B.
Wells and R. B. Pratt, several Stake Presi-
dents from a distance occupied the upper
stand, and there was a good sized congre-
gation in the body of the house.
	Conference opened with singing ‘ Re-
deemer of Israel,” prayer by Sister B. W.
Smith, continued by singing “Let us pray
gladly pray.” Roll called, seventeen
Stakes represented. Minutes of previous
Conference read and approved.
	President Zina D. H. Young welcomed
the congregation in a very gracious man-
ner and thanked the brethren who were
present for their presence, felt glad to see
so many from a distance but wished there
was not a vacant seat in the house, urged
the sisters to do all in their power to get
the members to attend their local meetings,
felt we needed the Spirit of the Lord to be
constantly with us, not only do we need it
every hour but all the time. Related
some instances of sublime faith in children;
referred to a dream of Patriarch John
Young about a looking glass in which
one’s neighbor’s faults were magnified, ad-
vised all to follow the teachings of Joseph
the Prophet and pray night and day to the
Lord for guidance.
	President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache
Stake Relief Society spoke against mumur-
ing, referred to the recent high wind, said
it occured immediately after a woman’s
meeting in which the sisters had complain-
ed so much of hard times; reported good
work done in the Society and a good feeling
generally, and beautifully of Temple work.
President Hakes of Maricopa Stake, rep-
resented the Relief Society work in that
locality for his wife who could not come
because of financial difficulties, and had
asked him to report. Spoke very interest-
ingly of the labors of the sisters in that
part of the vineyard. 
	Lorinda E. Thompson of the Board of
Millard Relief Society gave an excellent
account of the sisters in that Stake and of
the President, Elizabeth Yates, and alluded
to the distressing sickness (Diphtheria) that
had prevailed at Scipio, out of one hun-
dred cases, however, only eight had died,

[Column 2]
all the others had recovered, which seemed
remarkable.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Relief Soci-
ety Bingham Stake gave a very favorable
report, referred to the willingness of the
brethren to assist the sisters in their labors
and to go with them when visiting the
Stakes spoke highly of the country, they
had rich ranches and lovely fields of grain;
of the union which prevailed among them,
all being in harmony; sisters would come
eight or ten miles to attend Conferences,
and bring babies with them; made some
remarks on the Word of Wisdom and the
blessings attending those who kept it. 
	Temperance Hinckley President of Re-
lief Society of Bannock Stake, spoke of the
disadvantages they labored under in having
such long distances to travel by team to
visit the Stake she and her Counselors
had visited all around recently, felt to do
all in her power and reported a good and
united feeling among the sisters in the
Stake knew they were charitable and
humble and were desirous of doing their
duty they were always ready to assist the
Bishops in relieving the poor and in every
good word and work for Zion.
	President Mary A. P. Hyde, Relief Soci-
ety Sanpete Stake, spoke of having just re-
turned from a Quarterly Conference in that
county and of the good feeling that exist
ed among the Saints, spoke very feelingly
of the loss by death of her two Counselors
during the present year, Sisters Minerva
W. Snow and Sarah A. Peterson, and of
the strong attachment that had existed
between them, but realized they were bet-
ter off and that they would not wish to re-
turn here. Two other Counselors had
since been appointed and she felt that they
would be faithful in the position to which
they had been called and set apart. They
were Sisters Alvira L. Cox and Abbie
Shoemaker. Sister Hyde felt blest in ber
ing able to attend the Conference and
hearing the good reports from the sisters.
	President Ann C. Woodbury of the Re-
lief Society of St. George Stake, spoke of
the great losses sustained in that locality
by floods, but did not feel discouraged but
hopeful, thought their faith and union had
ncreased of late. The sisters generally had.
to pay for teams to go around the Stake,
the distances they had to travel in visiting
all around were considerable; her advice
had been to put their financial women in
the front so they could make means to
sustain the poor and for such other purposes
as means was needed for, thought there
was a prospect now of a railroad coming
and then they would have a market for
their produce; last year the people there
had large crops of grain and disposed of it
too readily, this year the crops would be
light, scarcity would make them more
careful in the future; thought as a people,
we were greatly blest in comparison with
the nations of the earth, for this she prais-
ed the God of Jacob who had blessed us
and kept us “and will bless us and keep
us if we will serve Him.” Sister Wood-
bury spoke earnestly of the silk industry;
the sisters there had pushed the work for-
ward this year, there had been two hundred
pounds of cocoons raised there this season,
and it would be a great help to them; she
had been working in the interst of the silk
industry for eighteen years trying to ac-
complish something and realized that if
it would not be of any benefit to her, it
would in the future to the children, and


[Column 1]
grandchildren of those who were laboring
in its establishment.
	President Mary John, of the Relief Soci-
ety of Utah Stake, spoke of the large num-
ber of branches in that Stake of Zion, thirty
three and all doing well; the poor were
well looked after, none suffering, referred to
some instances when on account of death and
misfortune whole families were dependent;
realized the Relief Society had been a great
school in which many important lessons were
learned; referred to the bountiful harvest
and thought the sisters should be on the
alert and store up more grain during this
year. Spoke most encouragingly concern-
ing the Free Kindergarten in Provo, said,
"We have started it and we feel we shall
make a success of it eventually, feel assur-
ed of it, of having a free kindergarten in
each ward; children in these schools are
taught such nice manners, and to be so
kind and gentle, let me advise all mothers
arid grandmothers to encourage these
schools.”
	President Elizabeth Fox of Oneida Stake
rejoiced to see the sisters from the North,
the South, the East and West come to the
Conference and enjoy the privileges of the
teaching and the spirit of the Gospel. In
that Stake they experienced some difficulty
in getting teams especially to go long dis-
tances; spoke about wheat and the need
there was and would be of grain in times
to come, as yet had no granary but hoped
to do better in the future; spoke of the
good work many of the aged sisters had
done, and the hardships they had borne.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young made a few
remarks and opened out upon the subject
of a suitable house for the sisters to meet
in to be owned by the Relief Society. Wo-
men had done so much to help build other
houses for public purposes and to build
Temples, and when the President of the
Stake, C. O. Card, lacked the means to go
on with the Logan Temple and the men
were to be discharged because there was no
money to pay them, Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards raised five hundred dollars through the
Relief Society of Weber County to keep the
men working, and it stands as a memento
to the sisters of that Society forever.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball wished she
could do justice to the subject, in what she
wanted to say; in her feelings she felt
humiliated in regard to the failure of the
meeting in the morning. It was under-
stood that we were to have the Hall and
permission had been given, but in conse-
quence of a previous appointment which
had been published the meeting could not
be held. “We need a house of our own,
owned and controlled by the Society, a
house under the shadow of the Temple, a
counterpart of it. We have contributed to
all public places that have been built and
at all times, but we want a house of our
own suitable to the various purposes of
this great organization; we want the land
to build on and it should be near; and a
house with conveniences for you my sisters
Who come from a distance, and where we
are prepared to entertain strangers when
they come; a bureau of information should
be established in it, and a place where let-
ters can be written, and other things of
this kind done that are an adjunct to the
Society. I have only a few minutes and
don’t expect to be here again, the question
is being discussed whether you representa-
tive Women who are here want this build-
ing, and we want to put it to vote.” Sister

[Column 2]
Kimball then told what Joseph Smith had
said to the sisters of the Society in Nauvoo,
and his giving them a lot belonging to the
Church, and that a house was given with it
which could be repaired and made useful;
she then said “I want to ask you sisters if
you want such a building as I have describ-
ed?” The motion was put to the house and
the vote taken and it was unanimous; the
speaker added “If you are alive to this
proposition then see how much can be
done.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke of the
sisters of Sanpete Stake building their large
hall over the Co-op store in Ephraim, al-
most entirely without money; they contri-
buted all their Sunday eggs, some had
sheep and gave wool etc. and in various
ways raised $600, it was very wonderful;
reminded the sisters to consider the subject.
After singing the doxology the Conference
adjourned until 7.30 p. m. Benediction by
Elder E. John Nuttall.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JOURNEYING IN DIXIE.

Dear Sister Wells:
	I THOUGHT a few lines from this part
might interest the readers of the EXPO-
NENT.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, her coun-
selor Emma Morris, of the Relief Society
and Mary G. Whitehead, of the Primary
Association of St. George Stake of Zion,
left St George to visit the Western settle-
ments, Sep. 1, 1896, arriving at Price Val-
ley after traveling over a very rough road,
at 4 p. m. held a meeting with the Pri-
mary Association and, had a very nice
meeting well attended by parents and
children. In the evening held a meeting
with the Relief Society. Bishop Mower met
with us and spoke words of encouragement
to the sisters. Here we found Rosena
Jarvis, President of Y. L. M. I. A.; she 
had been holding meetings in some of the
settlements. The morning of the 2nd we
met with the young ladies and had an ex-
cellent meeting. This is a lovely valley
and the scriptures are fulfilled in the say-
ing that Zion should be established in the tops
of the mountains. We left the sisters of Price
Valley feeling well and arrived at Pinto and
held a meeting with the Relief Society at 3
p. m. Here the sisters generally turned
out, we had a nice time. At 5 p. m. we
met with the children of the Primary.
Here the children are a credit to any settle-
ment. In the evening we met with the
young ladies and had an excellent meet-
ing, in fact we had a time long to be re-
membered
	Sep. 3, we went on to Hamblin and ap-
pointed a meeting to be held on our return
trip. We reached Hebron and held a gen-
eral meeting in the evening. Bishop Holt
who is a live bishop encouraged us with his
presence and also set an example to the
young men that they did not fail to imi-
tate; had a very good meeting. We went
to Sister Terry’s ranch and spent the
night. The 4th we traveled to Clover,
held a general meeting at 4 o’clock; on
the 5th we left the little settlement of
Clover and arrived at Panacca met the genial
Bishop Charles Reno who made us very
welcome. We met with the Relief Society
in the evening; owing to the storm we had
a slim attendance at the meeting. Sunday
the 6th we met with the Sabbath school;

[Column 2]
after the sacrament had been administered
Superintendent Arthur Lee turned the
meeting over to Sister Whitehead of the
Primary. We had an interesting time here,
there was a housefull of very lovely child-
ren. In the evening we held meeting with
the young ladies, Miss Alice Tindley is
president. The young men were invited
in, a Mr. Osborn an editor from Pioche
also met with us. We left Panacca on the
7th, arrived at Sister Terry’s ranch,  had
supper and went to Hebron for the night.
On the 8th we started for Hamblin, held
a meeting at noon, organized a Primary,
had a good time, had dinner with our old
friend Sister Campfield, traveled on to
Pinto, found Bishop Knell very sick. We
left Pinto and arrived in Grass Valley in
time to hold an evening meeting with the
people and organize a Young Ladies
Association. Here we found a nice place
and a progressive people. They have the
advancement of children at heart. The 9th
we left Grass Valley for St. George feeling
we had done some good in urging the
people to their duties.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain your sister in the Gospel
				ANN C. WOODBURY.


A LETTER OF SYMPATHY.

	Mrs. A. S. Rogers.
Dear Sister:
	As Primary officers in monthly meeting
assembled October 2, we feel to offer you
our heartfelt sympathy in this your double
bereavement of your sister and husband;
but more especially do we condole with
you in the loss of of the former, because
she was our beloved President and co-labor-
er, whom to know was to love. But yours
dear sister, was naturally the keener smart;
are you not woven in each other’s lives?
You hung on each other’s necks in deep sor-
row and in bitter trial.
	We can hardly think of you without
glancing over your past history. While
you were suffering the pangs of maternal
bereavement and paternal absence and en-
during mob violence, we on Europe’s far-
off shores were blessed with precious pres-
ence and wise counsel of that loving father
and bereaved husband who was for the
time being, as it were, torn from his tender
flock to fill the important mission of presid-
ing over the British Isles. And though a
little child at the time we well remember a
song being composed expressive of the love
and esteem in which he was held by the
English Saints. In said song he was desig-
nated “ Faithful One.” 
	What an honor to be the children of
such a father and a martyred mother!
	Think you not that the Lord watched
over the little flock of those sainted par-
ents and will reward those who suffer-in
His righteouness? yea verily !
	And while your heart is wrung with
sorrow which cannot be healed in this life,
Ellen’s heart is filled with unbounded joy;
for as it was said to your father on leaving
his great field of labor “Faithful one, faith-
ful one, welcome him home,” so shall
it be said to his dear daughter as she is
folded in the arms of her parents in that
happy home of which it is said,
	“And God shall wipe away all tears, from
their eyes; and there shall be no more death
neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be


any more pain; for the former things are passed
away.—Rev., 21st chap., 4th verse.
				CAMILLA C. COBB,
				LYDIA ANN WELLS,
				MARY L. MORRIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS..

WAYNE STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of the Wayne Stake
held their Conference in the Blue Valley
meeting house Aug 24, 1896, President J.S.
Coleman presiding. Singing, prayer by
Patriarch F. W. Young, continued by sing-
ing. Roll called, minutes of the previous
Conference were read and approved. Presi-
dent J.S. Coleman was pleased to meet with
the sisters again, said we should deem it a
great privilege to be members of the Relief
Society, encouraged the young ladies to at-
tend the Relief Society also parents to at-
tend the Sunday school and Primary meet-
ings and gave other good instruction, pray-
ed the spirit of the Lord to be with all
during the Conference. Statistical and
financial report was then read.
	The Teasdale, Grover, Caineville and
Giles Relief Societies were then reported by
their several presidents, were all in good
condition and doing well. Sisters Sarah
Rust and Agnes Woleman spoke a short
time. President J. S. Coleman was pleased
to hear the good reports given by each of
the presidents, advised the sisters to plant
mulberry trees on the Relief Society lots.
	President William Paxman of Juab Stake
spoke very encouragingly to the sisters,
spoke of the aid they were to the Bishop
in relieving the poor etc., prayed the Lord
to bless the sisters in their good work 
	President W. E. Robison of the Wayne
Stake was pleased to note the rapid pro-
gress the sisters of Wayne Stake were
making, endorsed the remarks of the sisters
and also those of President William Pax-
man. President Paxman testified that
Apostle Teasdale had promised him great
blessings on his journey and they had all
been fulfilled for which he thanked the
Lord. Elder Joseph Eckersby also testified
that the Spirit of God had attended the
Conference and gave other good instruction.
Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, benediction by President H.
M. Hanson.
			ANNIE COLEMAN, Sec.
 [Reported by Mary Jane Wilson.]
ONEIDA STAKE.
	WE held our Quarterly Conference at
Eranklin on Sep. 8, with a pretty good at-
tendance. We had as visitors Sister Jane
S. Richards of the general Presidency, and
Sister Stevens, both of Ogden, President
Julia Lindsey of the Bear Lake Stake,
President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache
Stake, Stake President George C. Parkin-
son, also the local Stake Presidency and
many presidents of branches. Much good
instruction was given and although the
weather was cold and rainy we had a most
enjoyable time.
	Sister Barber had with her samples of
silk which had been raised by the sisters in
the Cache Stake, which proved beyond a
doubt that silk is a natural production
of these Western states, and only awaits
development to become a source of wealth.
	Just before the afternoon session of Con-
ference was dismissed Mrs. Mary C. C.

[Column 2]
Bradford of Denver, Col., was announced.
She came to the stand, was introduced and
made a few remarks on the nature of her
labors among the people and announced
that she would lecture in the meeting house
that evening at 7.30. At the appointed
time she delivered a brilliant lecture, show-
ing by facts instead of theory the benefit to
be derived from women receiving the right
ot the franchise. At the close of the meet-
ing she organized an Equal Suffrage Club,
with sixty-three members. She also visit-
ed Malad, Weston, Preston, Cifton and
Oxford, and organized clubs in these towns
and from there she went by train to Black-
foot Idaho. She is intending to labor for
the best interest of woman suffrage in this
state up to the election. The Legislature
has granted an amendment and it was left
to voters whether the women of Idaho shall
have the ballot or not. We all feel
encouaged.
	Mrs. M. C. Athey, State Cor. Sec. of
Boise, Idaho, writes, “ Let us give a hard
pull, a long pull and a pull altogether
and we shall see a splendid victory this
fall.”
				D. E. DUDLEY.


FROM a recent monograph of the United
States Census Bureau is taken statistics
that show how the new woman developed
in the United States between the years 1870
and 1890. The figures relate to the num-
ber of women in other than domestic em-
ployments, and are of great interest. In
1870 there were 693 actresses, in 1890 there
were 3,948. The solitary woman architect
of 1870 twenty years later had 21 rivals in
her profession. The number of artists and
teachers of art has increased from 412 to
10,810. Under the head of authors, liter-
ary and scientific persons the number in-
creased from 159 to 2,725. There were no
women chemists, assayers or metallurgists
in 1870, but twenty years later there were
46. Women preachers increased in num-
ber from 67 to 1,235. The success of 24
dentists inspired 337 new women to take
up the trade. Designers, draughtsmen and
inventors grew from 13 to 206. There was
not a known woman civil engineer or sur-
veyor twenty-five years ago, yet five years
ago there were 127 mistresses of the transit,
theodolite and chain. A nucleus of 35
journalists grew to an army of 888 in two
decades. Musicians and teachers of music
increased nearly seven fold, or from 5,753
to 34,519. In the field of politics, that is,
Government officials, State, Federal and
local, the number had grown in twenty
years from 414 to 4,875. Physicians and
surgeons of the fair sex were rapidly ad-
mitted to practice, and the ranks grew from
527 to 4,555. By 1870 the competency of
women teachers in public and private
schools was generally recognized, and
84,047 were so employed, but twenty years
later the birch was wielded by 245,965
qualified women, some of whom held chairs
in famous colleges. The 100 theatrical
managers and showmen in 1870 must have
succeeded, for the year 1890 found 634 of
them “in the business.” Two women in
1890 had taken up the profession of veter-
inary surgeons. The army of bookkeepers,
accountants and clerks grew from 8,016 to
91,825. A most extraordinary statement is
that in 1870 there were but 7 women sten-
ographers and typewriters, and they were
the pioneers of the 21,185 that came later,
a figure which at the present time must be


increased by 10,000 at least. Saleswomen
could hardly be said to be established in
1870, as the census takers could find but
2,775. When they went around twenty
year later they discovered 58,499 young
women calling for “Ca-sh.” There is no
question but that the employment of wo-
men on all the lines indicated has increased
enormously since the census was taken.
							—Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED—At Pleasant Grove, Utah, Aug. 5, 1896,
Margaret Foutz, daughter of David and Mary
Mun. Born December 11, 1801 in Franklin
county, Pa. Married to Jacob Foutz July 22,
1823, husband and wife joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1834, in Ohio.
They gathered with the Saints in the land of Mo.
and settled on Crooked River in Caldwell County.
They passed through the terrible persecutions
which the Saints endured in that land. They
were in the bloody slaughter at Haun’s mill where
some eighteen persons were killed out-right and
many others wounded, her husband with others
were huddled together in a blacksmith’s shop
and shot down, he being severly wounded drew
some of his dead companions over him and feign-
ed himself dead when the murderous mob stripped
their victims; he thus saved his life. They were
expelled from the state of Mo. to Illinois, and
gathered with the Saints at Nauvoo, where her
husband was Bishop of one of the wards; they
helped to build up that place and endured all the
trials and labors incident thereto, and were again
driven in the general exodus into the wilderness
by the hand of persecution. They arrived in
Salt Lake valley in the fall of 1847, to make a
home and living in the Desert Wilderness with
short rations and little means to begin with. The
next summer she lost her husband; he died at a
time when the people were mostly subsisting on
roots and greens she was left with a large family
and scant means. She settled in Pleasant Grove
in 1851 where she resided ever after. She had
twelve children, seventy grandchildren, one
hundred and twenty-six great grandchildren and
nine great great grandchildren. Two sons and
three daughters survive her. She was an inces- 
sant worker till within a few weeks of death; She
was a devoted mother and faithful in her religi-
ous duties and highly respected by all who knew
her. She died in full faith of the Gospel and
hope of a glorious Resurrection.
					SARAH A. FOUTZ.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS adopted by the officers and
members of the Springville Second ward Relief
Society in memory of Sister Hannah Harrison,
who died after a lingering illness September 15;
1896, at Springville, Utah. She was born at
Warrington, Lancashire, England, July 18, 1817
	When only nineteen she married William Har-
rison. Five years later she received the Gospel,
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, in February 1838. At the
time it was so cold that her shoes became frozen
to the bank of the stream and she had to walk
home in her stockings.
	She emigarted to Utah in 1856, and was one of
the honored hand-cart company. When Utah
was reached the family moved direct to Spring-
ville where she has lived until her death, surviv-
ing her husband fifteen years.
	Sister Harrison has been an active publicwork-
er, was first counselor in the first Relief Society of
Springville and has been one of its members over
twenty-six years. Ever has she borne a faithful
testimony to the cause of her life’s devotion. Be
it therefore
	RESOLVED, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our noble and faithful sister to her heaven-
ly home, we herewith express our sympathy for
her children and grand children. Be it further
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
on the records of the Society and a copy be sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					ZEBINA ALLEMAN.


PRINCESS HELENE of Montenegro who
is to marry the Crown Prince of Italy, is a
poet, and many of her verses have been set
to music and are sung by the peasants in
all parts of the principality.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WEDDING BELLS.

[WRITTEN in honor of the sixtieth anniversary
of the marriage of Brother and Sister Tyler.]

RING out! Ye joyous wedding bells
Let your sweet music fill the air.
A wedding festive is at hand
So extol it everywhere.
Let your notes be clear as crystal
Laden with joy, peace and love,
With heart-felt thanks and gratitude,
To the great God above.

For three score years ago today
You sent forth a happy peal
While modest maid and buoyant youth
Did at the sacred altar kneel.
’Twas then your notes were filled with hope
Thought was found there blending,
But now life’s fiercest storms are past,
And in paths of truth they still are wending.

Tho’ sorrow oft has filled their hearts,
And bitter grief has left its traces,
The sun’s shone brightly thro’ the clouds
And still illuminates those faces.
Blessed are you, dear aged friends
Who launched your bark on life’s stormy sea
So many, many years ago
To be preserved this day to see

With fond hearts still aglow with love,
Both for each other and the truth,
And the vows at the altar given,
So long ago in your happy youth;
So now ring out! Ye merry bells!
Let not one shadow your tones bedim,
But let your rich notes gladly tell
Of the richer qualities within.

For our Patriarch and his winsome bride
Who still are working hand in hand
In the great cause of righteousness
Among Zion’s most faithful, stand.
Ring out, let the angels catch the strain
And carry it heavenward I pray,
And there in endless peace and joy
May they sing the eternal wedding day.
AMELIA W. FARNSWORTH.
Beaver City, Sep. 11, 1896.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

SORRENTO
	Friday, Nov. 29.—After breakfast we
entered our carriages and drove past the
house of Tasso, all embowered in groves
and flowers, on to Castellamar ten miles
away, through the town and on to Pom-
peii. During the drive the volcano was
before us, and watching the smoke it
seemed to twist and coil into every conceiv-
able shape, having heard the saying “It
is the gate of the infernal region,” could
fancy heads and forms and all kinds of
weird things. Pompeii and Herculaneum,
cities of Ancient Italy on the Mediterra-
nean at the foot of Vesuvius, because of
their beautiful location and healthful cli-
mate were much frequented by the wealthy
families of Rome, and in Aug. 79 A. D.
they were completely overwhelmed by the
eruption of Vesuvius. From the entrance
of Pompeii we first visited the Museum
where were the remains of people and the
articles found in the excavations; they esti-
mate 2,000 perished but there are only a few
figures here with many curious things.
Then directly to the Forum where are the
Bosicila or hall of justice, the temple of
Jupiter, the temple of Venus which was
unfinished when the city was destroyed,
the Pantheon and the Triumphal Arch,—

[Column 2]
these ruins are very beautiful. The group
of buildings about the Stabian gate extend-
ed along the side of the Forum, a three
sided space surrounded by Doric portico
and near the Thermal or baths is the elegant
house “Bulwer” makes, the dwelling of
Glaucus, the Tragic Poet. The house of
Sallust, the bakery where were the loaves
of bread. The streets are paved with
blocks of lava, they have stepping stones at
the crossways, and there are deep ruts made
by the chariot wheels. We found they had
a complete sewer system. A private resi-
dence consists of a central room or atrium,
with smaller apartments clustered about
it; those we visited had an open court or
garden behind the Atrium surrounded by
columns and called the peristylium; the
houses had no outlook upon the street and
the rooms on either side the entrance were
rented as shops, and they rolled down the
wooden blinds as they do now. The wall
paintings were of landscape, mythological
figures and scenes from history and daily
life, the mosaic work on the floors were
ornamental designs in black and white, but
in the Casa del Fanno it represented the
Battle of Alexander, and we saw beautiful
mosaic at the houses of the fountains and at
the door or entrance hall of one house, was
a bear in mosaic. In the temple of Isis
our guide pointed out the passage where
the priests used to pass underground to the
statue to answer the questions when the
people appealed to the Oracle. Leaving
the ruins we drove back to Naples.
	Saturday, Nov. 30.—Early breakfast and
the ladies took open carriages for the ex-
cursion to Mt. Vesuvius via Resnia, the
gentlemen going horseback via Pompeii
the ladies could go with them if good
equestrians, but all prefered the drive.
	The last eruption destroye[-] Cooks rail-
way from the end of the carriage road to
the summit of the Cone. So we had a
guide, our manager going with the gentle-
men. The morning was fine, the drive
pleasant, the villas of the rich had high
walls but from the glimpses we had of
them they seemed like Paradise. Outside
were the poor at work, little children seem-
ed to be weaving silk this early, eating dry
bread and maccaroni; they were still at
work when we returned at night, there
seems no happy medium it is affluence or
squalor. Italians were constantly swarm-
ing about the carriages urging us to buy
their wares 15 Lira and coming down three
and four Lira at a time, finishing with
“What will you give Signora?” We were
beseiged with beggars all the way, old and
young, some were repulsive and we avoided
them if possible as we could not benefit them
and they had what we considered capable
of injuring us. One pretty little child ran
after our carriage along a steep hillside for
more than a mile clamoring for "A sou
Signora," until fearing she would be lost
we threw her some, thereby inviting a
number of children to try for more by turn-
ing cartwheels for our amusement. Where
they came from was surprising. I asked
the guide if there was no provision made
for the old and feeble, and he replied,
"Ample, they prefer to beg as they make
more money." As we ascended the
mountain the grandeur of the view increas-
ed; in front was the volcano with its
smoke and down the mountain side from
many crevices streams of bright red lava
were slowly flowing, back of us the Sea
and Islands the water like glass reflected

[Column 3]
the golden splendor of the sun. We came
to the road made over the lava that was
thrown out there years ago, it was not yet
cool, in the crevices we saw blossoms. The
lava becomes black as it cools it forms
great waves and mounds and one side
seemed to form quite a mountain. Our
guide pointed out all places of interest and
the excavations of Herculaneum from which
this or that relic was taken. We stopped
when near Cooks Hotel to feed the horses
and refresh ourselves; our lunch was spread
upon a large table and consisted of bread,
cold ham and chicken, claret and pears and
eaten amidst some merriment. Upon
reaching the hotel we left the carriages
and began to climb for about half a mile
through brush and a little grove of trees,
the air growing hotter and hotter, the
smoke coming nearer. Emerging from
this we found ourselves at the edge of the
internal fires. We all with one acccord
shrank back but a native said to one lady
"Courage mamma and take a look at the
Furnace of the devil, if you come to Vesuv-
ious and don’t see the crater it is like
going to Rome and not seeing the Pope" One
lady remarked "I have seen enough, do
hope it won’t become eruptive while we are
here, it is dreadfully warm." The guide
took me upon the surface of cool lava, it
burnt my shoes and feet and looking up
under this crust was an enormous caldron
of molten lava—it was an appalling sight.
Looking down at my feet there were
crevices and I could see the cool lava was
only about three inches thick, under this
was the awful lake of fire and sulphurous
flames were constantly emitted "See how
thin the crust! It will not break through
Signora or I would not stand here, but if it
did, Presto! you are dead, you will not
sigh you will not moan so soon will it be
over; so take a look to carry with you of
the infernal regions."
	From these crevices the hot lava would
bubble up, cool a little, break off and run
slowly down the mountains. We gave the
natives centimes and they took a pole, dip-
ped it into the molten lava, wound it
around like molasses candy, dropped it
on a rock, put the pennies in, which burned
a blue flame a second or so long enough to
melt the superscription, then became a
black mass which we have as souvenirs.
	Returned to Naples. Next morning the
gentlemen said their trip was most fatigu-
ing the smoke hot, choking and blinding, their
boots burned past wearing and they saw
nothing.
	If the wind is just right it blows away the
smoke, you see the bright prismatic colors
from the crystals of sulphur, alum and
iron and beautiful stalactites.
KIM.


R.K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 65
VOL. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 15, 1896. No. 9—10.


CONTENTS:
 
	Mrs. Stanton To Mr. Bryan—Elizabeth Cady
Stanton. Ceramics—L. S. M. Kate Field’s
Body. Proposed Constitutional Amendment—
Rachel Foster Avery. U. W. P. C.—E. R. Shipp,
Sec. Reception To Clara Barton—Ex. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina Hyde, Sec. Leaves
From My Journal—Kim. A Loving Tribute—H.
B. T. In Memoriam. The Snare—Zion’s Convert
Notes And News.
	EDITORIAL: —Founder’s Day. Important To
Women. Rev. Anna Howard Shaw. Woman’s
Work And Duty. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Flag Day:—John G. Whittier.
The Spirit of Sleep—Julia Bowring Maltese.
In Prayer—C. A. C. Life In Death—Nevada
V. Davis.


FLAG DAY.

WHAT though around thee blazes 
	No fiery rallying sign ?
From all thy own high places
	Give Heaven the light of thine ! 
Still let the land be shaken
	By a summons of thine own ;
By all save truth forsaken,
	Why, stand with that alone !

But when with thine uniting,
	Come voices long and loud,
And far off hills are writing
	The fire-words on the cloud ;
When from Penobscot's fountains
	A deep response is heard,
And o'er the Western mountains
	Rolls back thy rallying word ;

Shall thy line of battle falter
	With its allies just in view ?
O, by hearth and holy altar,
	My fatherland, be true !
Fling abroad thy scrolls of Freedom !
	Speed them onward far and fast !
Over hill and valley speed them,
	Like the sibyl’s on the blast.
					JOHN G. WHITTIER.


THE SPIRIT OF SLEEP.
WHO is it that comes in shadowy robes,
	With a spell silent and deep,
Wrapping our forms in a mystic trance?
	'Tis the mighty spirit of sleep.
He seals the eyes that are wet with tears,
	And those where gladness beams,
And by a wave of his scepter-wand
	We soar to the land of dreams.
’Tis then the weary mourner finds,
	A brief respite from care;
And dreams perchance of a voice beloved,
	Or a face that was sweet and fair.
The sultan may lie on his downy bed
	With curtains of tinted glow,
The beggar may rest her weary bones
	’Neath a coverlet of snow.


But potent the nectar his chalice holds, 
	Solace to all he brings,
And visits the poor in his humble cot, 
	As well as the halls of kings.
He soothes the sailor boy to rest,
	And lulls the soldier’s pain;
O, where on earth can a spot be found
	Not a part of his domain? 
In the silent gloom of the midnight hour,
	His standard is unfurled;
With his misty crown he reigns supreme
	The monarch of the world.
		JULIA BOWRING MALTESE.


MRS. STANTON TO MR. BRYAN.

	To the Democratic Nominee for Presi-
dent of the United States William Bryan.
	Honored Sir:—In your leisure hours I
presume you are considering some very
strong points with which to gild your in-
augural address in case you should be
chosen for our next president.
	Allow me to call your attention to the
position of thirty-five millions of American
citizens, who in violation of every principle
of our government, are wholly unrepresent-
ed in the legislature of the country. A
large number of this class are persons of
education and wealth, exerting an immense
moral and intellectual influence on our
civilization and pouring vast sums as taxes
into our national treasury.
	In view of that fact, it would be a grace-
ful tribute from a young man to the moth-
ers of this Republic to recommend Con-
gress, in his inaugural address to pass a
Sixteenth Amendment to the National Con-
stitution forbidding disfranchisement in the
several states on the ground of “Sex,”
thus placing educated women at least on an
even political platform with emancipated
slaves and ignorant immigrants of the old
world.
	Such an act of justice on the threshold of
your administration would be the keynote
to the reforms proposed by the Chicago
platform. Important as the questions of
Finance and Tariff may be, they are insig-
nificant compared with the civil and politi-
cal rights of thirty-five millions of people.
	This would be the strongest point in
your address, and one that none of your
predecessors have as yet made; a step of
progress in social and political evolution of
the period in which we live.
	An enthusiastic supporter of Mr. Bryan
read to me his great Labor Day speech,
delivered in Chicago on Sep. 7. It cer-
tainly has a true ring in it from beginning
to end. Ignoring all minor questions, such
as tariff and finance, that might have con-
fused his audience—as they do everybody—
he dwells on the fundamental principles of
just government which, if carried out,
would secure equal rights to the thirty-five
millions disfranchised women,
	The ballot, as he describes it, in the hand
of every citizen would indeed be a scepter
of power; a crown of royalty. A man
who, as President of the United States,


would use his influence to carry out such
principles, I would be glad to see in the
highest position in the gift of the American
people.—Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honor-
ary President Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion.


CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	IN preparing a brief article upon porce-
lain I have been somewhat hampered for
reference books also for want of time to
make it worthy the subject and worthy the
attention of this cultivated body of women.
	I can only briefly touch upon the origin, 
influence and progress of pottery and por-
celain for several thousand years to the
present time.
	Pottery is the oldest and most widely
diffused of human arts. The recorded his-
tory begins with the building of Babel, and
great cities in all ages are great structures
of pottery. It is its own historian. Ceramic
collections are libraries of history; every
specimen a book of the thoughts of men, of
which the earliest known were published
not long after the Deluge. Every people
civilized or barbarian, in one form or
another have written their history in clay. 
	The first fire kindled on clay soil, baked
it and thus it was found that a soft, easily
molded substance could be made into 
a permanent article of use; wherever trade
was established and pottery made for sale,
the forms and decorations were those most
likely to be accepted by the people; thus 
the prevailing styles were the indicators of
public taste and the work of the potter en-
during for ages, makes the Ceramic art take
precedence of all others, as the index of
human character in various ages and
countries. All study in every department
of human art, begins at a period not long
after the Mosaic Deluge. All art history
when traced towards its beginning, is found
to commence at a time less than 5000 years
ago. There is no work of human hands, 
no result of human thought now known
where date is found more than 3000 years
before Christ. The converging lines in the
history of all human invention and arts, in
tombs, in architecture, in money, in forms
of religion, in language spoken or written,
above all in Ceramic art, point to the west-
ern portion of Asia as the place where, and
about 5000 years ago as the time when the
history of man as read in his works, must
begin. 
	The oldest known pottery is Egyptian. 
We approach Egypt with a certain amount
of awe, for it comprises relics of civilization
of such hoary antiquity, that it seems like
peering into the secrets of the grave. Un-
glazed pottery was made in many parts of
the world as an independent discovery, and
the genealogy briefly stated is this.—Men
made brick and other unglazed pottery in
Mesopotamia and carried the art with them
wherever they went The Egyptians dis-
covered the art of painting it with colors.
Persia received the art from Assyria and


[Column 1]
transmitted it to China, China gave it to
Corea and Japan. Traces of art appear in
the Eastern Mediterranean and it is suppos-
ed to have extended down the line to Ger-
many where it is found in its 12th century.
In the middle of the 15th century Italy
adopted it and Italian potters carried it to
France.  German potters who had either
revived their lost art or received it
afresh from Italy, diffused it through
Northern Europe.
	Holland took it from Germany and sent
new potters to England to teach it. Mean-
time about 2000 years ago, either in Persia
or China was discovered the art of making
pottery translucent and producing what is
now known as porcelain.
	For 1600 years this art was known only
in Asia. In Venice about 1519, an old pot-
ter made porcelain and died without leaving
a successor. It was made in Florence
about 1580, but again the art was lost.
At St. Cloud, France, about 1695, the art
of making soft-parte pottery was discover-
ed and France began to make this ware.
About 1710 at Dresden in Germany the
Asiatic secret of making true or hard-parte
porcelain was discovered and thereafter
came the glory of Dresden and Sevres in
both kinds of porcelain; thus the cups on
our tables are lineal descendents of the cups
used by the ancestry of the builders of the
Pyramids.
	A child is sometimes told to hold a shell
to its ear and hear the sound of the sea—
that same deep sound which one may hear
in any vase of Chelsea or Derby, Sevres or
Dresden, Menton or Copal and coming
down through the long succession of gener-
ations of pottery is the roar of the Deluge.
	The lessons and Influences received from
Egypt, at and after the conquest of Cyprus
are as visible in Cypriote vases, as if
written in Greek or English letters.
	The rude forms of early Phenician
statuettes, resembling the mud figures
made by modern children are followed by
more graceful figures, until the culmnia-
tion is reached in that superb Greek art
which has never been surpassed.
	The Egyptians stamped on the forms of
pottery imperishable illustrations of their
wonderful mythology. The Greek fabrics
glowed with illustrations of the Helenic
story. The Chinese spread over their en-
ameled ware a wealth of brilliant colors,
rich with the chaotic imagery of Chinese
religion and history. The Saracens inter-
wove in pottery the luxuriant vines and
flowers of the east and made their marques
shine in the sunlight, resplendent with gor-
geous colors. Assyria, Phenicia, Italy, Ger-
many, France, England, and in fact, every
country has impressed or painted character-
istic thoughts, in or on the plastic clay and
burned it for a permanent record, to be
studied by generations of man. The lovers
of porcelain need no further argument to
justify them in their hobby. They have
abundant reason for the pursuit in this—
that no other art so fully gratifies the love
of beauty. Standards of beauty are arbi-
trary, but the Ceramic art conforms to any
and every standard. The highest results
of civilization may be said to appear in the
best union of beauty and utility.
	Porcelain and pottery are thus the
measure as no other art can be of compara-
tive civilization. Almost all other beauty
fades or decays. Flowers are short lived;
oil or water color painting change and
fade; but a group of beautiful flowers or

[Column 2]
figures by a great artist on a Dresden vase,
painted a century ago, gleams with the
beauty of a summer day and will be as beauti-
ful a thousand years hence as today unless
the vase be broken. Color except in gems
is nowhere so brilliant as in enamel.
	Families brought up with such cheerful
household decorations feel their refining in-
fluence; children grow up among them
with a love of beauty; the table furnished
with tasteful ware ceases to be a mere feed-
ing place, its memories become important
possesions as the members separate to go
their different ways in the journey of life.
	Pottery in the broadest meaning of the
word includes everything made by baking
in a furnace into the composition of which
clay enters. Porcelain is a variety of pot-
tery—objects made wholly or in part in
clay and baked which are opaque are called
pottery; those which are translucent are
porcelain. Pottery is of two kinds, soft
and hard; soft pottery is made of ordinary
clay a common house brick is an illustra-
tion. Hard pottery is made by a mixture
of stone or sand with clay as a fire brick is
an illustration. Soft pottery is divided in-
to four classes—Unglazed, Glazed, Lustrous
and Enameled. Glazed pottery is covered
with a coating of glass. Lustrous pottery
is where the object is covered with a thin
varnish-like glaze, so thin that an iron
point easily penetrates it; its composition
is unknown. Enameled pottery is covered
with a substance composed of stone, sand,
oxide of lead and tin.
	Hard pottery is the ware known as stone
ware. The cream ware perfected by
Wedgewood was hard pottery. Porce-
lain is a translucent pottery made by the
union of vitrifiable and non-vitrifiable sub-
stances. Hard paste porcelain or true porcelain
is made by the union of kaolen and felspar.
	The potters wheel is a revolving disc
turned by foot or machinery. The clay is
softened with water, a lump according to
the size of the vessel to be made is thrown
violently down on the center of the wheel
which is set in motion and the workmen
with thumb and fingers, curved sticks,
knives and other tools shapes the vessel.
Other forms are made in molds. The pot-
tery can be painted on the unglazed ware
or on the enamel. The colors for decorat-
ing porcelain are colored earths mixed
with vitrifiable substances.
	I have now given the technology of pot-
tery and will briefly touch upon the dif-
ferent nations and their pottery. As has
been stated before, Egypt was the first to
make pottery. It made it before the build-
ing of the pyramids. Tablets of pottery
were used there for ordinary writing pur-
poses. The next to learn pottery was
Assyria and Babylonia where it was also
used for records and business transactions.
Next came China, then Greece, then Etru-
ria, then Rome.
	The best Persian arid Italian pottery was
the first half of the 16th ceritury. The in-
cised ware was the earliest decoration and
consisted of designs scratched in through
the surface color showing the color beneath.
The wares were not beautiful in form, their
merit consisted in the decoration. Italian
potters then carried the art to France and
the French artists adopted many styles and
originated many more until it almost leads
the world today. It is said that women
cannot invent anything of themselves, but
in 1547 we read that the widow of Arthur
Gouffier occupied herself with books and art.

[Column 3]
She established a small pottery, employed
workmen and made ware for her own
amusement; when she died she left the
estate to her son who still carried on the
work, but the products ceased to appear
with the lives of mother and son. They
were called the Oiron ware and belong to
what is known in France as faience. The
lady seems to have followed her own taste
in modeling and decorating, the prevailing
color being a dark yellow on a cream white
ground, darkened by brown; there are
few pieces in existence aud they are so
valuable that one piece sold for 25,000
francs. This ware was never copied until
our own time at great labor and expense
by skilled English potters. Who shall say
women can accomplish nothing!
	China which has the honor of naming
all porcelain, is supposed to be only an imi-
tator, and it is probable that they
learned enameling from central Asia. The
Chinese have never been distinguished for
inventing, but only as close imitators. The
oldest Chinese work on Ceramic art was
issued in the 14th century and there are
now in China many private and one imper-
ial factories. From this last has come the
finest specimens of Chinese porcelain. It
is said that most of the ancient work was
reproduced in the Ming dynasty and
collectors do not know when paying a high
price for seeming old china, but what it is
a modern imitation of the cunning China-
man who has ways that are dark and tricks
that are sometimes vain.
	The peculiar greenish tint seen on so
much of the Chinese ware is due, it is said,
to their desire to imitate jode one of the
hardest substances known. The most
celebrated of Chinese potters were Chu Ong
and his daughter, Chu Kias. The father
excelled in birds and beasts while the
daughter who excelled her father produced
exquisite works of all kinds and colors.
Her wares sold for more than their weight
in silver.
							L. S. M.


67 WOMAN S EXPONENT


KATE FIELD’S BODY.
	SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 23.—The Wo-
man’s Press Association has arranged to re-
ceive with just honor the body of Kate
Field when it arrives in this city from
Hawaii on its way to the east. A commit-
tee consisting of Mrs. Van Pelt, Miss Cool-
birth and Mrs. Dickinson has been appointed
to make the necessary preparations, acting
with Mrs. Henry E. Highton, one of Kate
Field’s friends.
	The body will be taken to the mortuary
chapel at Trinity church, which will be
abundantly decorated with flowers, where
services will be held.


MISS LENORA JACKSON, the violinist,
whose debut recently in Berlin was honored
by the attendance of the American and
British embassies and large delegations
from the colonies of the English-speaking
residents in the German capital, is a Chica-
go girl twenty-six years old. Ten years
ago she made her first appearance in the
musical circles of that city.
	QUEEN VICTORIA has been queen of
Great Britain during the administration of
Van Buren Harrison, Tyler, Polk, Taylor,
Fillmore, Pierce, Grant, Hayes, Garfield,
Arthur, Harrison and Cleveland.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN PRAYER.

WHEN God and I were all alone,
I knelt me down by His great throne,
	And then He knew my heart.
Then merciful and pityingly,
I felt that He looked down on me,
	To help me do my part. 
The shadows fell and evening came,
But He was with me still the same,
	I felt His loving hand.
So may He guide me all along,
In thought and prayer, in speech and song 
	Unto that better land.
Sunday, January, 1895.
							C. A. C.


LIFE IN DEATH.

WHISPER gently in her dead ear,
Another soul has caught a spark
From the dying torch that she laid down;
Will feed it, breathe it into flame!
Perhaps her soul may rest in ease
May quieter sleep, if she should hear
That still her light burns bright and clear
Like vestal fire in temple’s fane.

She died of—you give it a learned name, 
I know better what opened the way,
To her sweet soul imprisoned in clay,
She died, I tell you of starvation’s blight.
The love that was hers by natural right,
Was coldly withheld; she bore her part,
With a smile on her lips and a pain in her heart.

Now here she lies all free from care,
No! only her body, the shelter fair
Of fairer soul, which has gladly gone 
To live in love near the great white throne.
					NEVADA V. DAVIS.


PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT.

PHILADELPHIA Oct. 23, 1896.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Will you kindly publish the following
proposed amendment to the Constitution of
the National American Woman Suffrage
Association:
	In Article III., Section I, strike out the
words “to attend all its meetings, to par-
ticipate in all discussions that may arise,
and.”
	Offered by Laura Clay, Lexington, Ky.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
annual meeting on Wednesday, October 28
instead of the 31st because of the woman’s
mass meeting to be held on that date. It
was a very interesting session, President E.
B. Wells presided in her usually dignified
manner and called upon Mrs. Maria Wilcox
to open the meeting with prayer.
	The secretary then called the roll and
read the minutes of the last meeting which
were approved. The President explained
the results of the business meeting of the
executive committee and our reason for
changing the present meeting from the
regular date and said: “Our program upon
the present occasion is to attend to the im-
portant business of electing officers for the
coming year and the representation of
literary characters by the different members
of the club.” 

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Phebe C. Young gave the unique
and practical sentiment from Owen Meri-
dith’s Lucile “Man cannot live with-
out cooks,” Elizabeth Stevenson repre-
sented herself as a night and day nurse and
a 41 year’s bride. Pearl Russell bedecked
in the crimson Autumn leaves looked the
very queen of Autumn, and gave a
beautiful poetic sentiment.
	C. C. R. Wells read Ella Wheeler Wil-
cox poem “Whatever is is best.”
	Ruth M. Fox in quaint costume and de-
mure manner represented very perfectly the
character of Alice Carey, and recited her
sweet little poem “Painting a Picture.”
	Dr. E. R. Shipp gave a sentiment from
Shakespeare, Mrs. Harker with a very long
fellow pinned upon her dress gave a charm-
ing quotation from the poet, whose words
are deep heart tones awakening the sweet-
est sentiments of life.
	President E. B. Wells in velvet gown
and silken scarf, read in her most charming
manner Jean Ingelow’s exquisite poem
“Regret.”
	Dr. R. B. Pratt with a bouquet of sweet
hawthorne blossoms, leaves and thorn, and
the letter A in gold and scarlet upon her
breast read from Hawthorne’s “Scarlet
Letter,” the extracts being very interesting
as were also her comments and moral
taken from this pathetic story. 
	The characters throughout were well
sustained, evinced by the readiness with
which they were detected. The members
too proving themselves remarkably conver-
sant with literary topics and characters.
	The President expressed her pleasure
with the evening’s entertainment and said
she regretted the motion being made at our
business meeting that we should elect no
one to office who was not present upon this
occasion, as so many of the ladies were act-
vely engaged in the political campaign and
could not be here to represent themselves.
Ella W. Hyde who made the motion was
willing to have the motion reconsidered
which was accordingly done and by vote of
the members, carried unanimously. Mrs.
Hyde then made a motion which carried,
that the President appoint a nominating
committee. R. B. Pratt. H. A. Badger
and E. J. Stevenson were appointed by the
President to act as that committee. The
committee then withdrew and pleasant chat
was engaged in until their return, when
the chairman of the committee gave the
following report: Ruth M. Fox, Pres’t;
Ella W. Hyde, Vice-Pres’t; Syntitha
Dickinson, 2nd Vice-Pres’t; Ellis R.
Shipp, Vice-Pres’t at large; Oreille Curtis,
Secretary; Hattie Harker, Assistant Secre-
tary; Lizzie S. Wilcox Cor. Secretary;
Olea Shipp, Assistant Cor. Secretary;
Phebe C. Young, Treasurer; L. D. Alder,
Auditor.
	The motion was made and. carried, that
we accept the names as prepared by the
committee for the officers of the U. W. P. C.
for the ensuing year.
	The names of Maria Miller Johnson, Julia
Ivins McDonald and Augusta Joyce
Chrocheron were also accepted as honorary
members. L. D. Alder, H. A. Badger and
E. J. Stevenson were sustained as program
committee for the next three months. The
President also appointed a committee to
attend to preparing a book which should
contain the names of the officers past and
present and of all members. The ladies ap-
pointed were Dr. R. B. Pratt, Dr
E. R. Shipp and Ella W. Hyde.

[Column 3]
	The President gave advice concerning
dues, said our by-laws provided that all
dues and initation fees should be paid with-
in sixty days and that all who failed to
perform their part on the program should be
fined a nominal sum.
	Miss Maude Pratt said that on account of
her inability to attend regularly, she desired
to tender her resignation. It was, how-
ever, moved and carried that Miss Pratt’s
name be retained upon the roll.
	Meeting adjourned and prayer was offer-
ed by L. D. Alder. The next important
matter to be attended to was delicious re-
freshments served by the young ladies of
the club.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


RECEPTION TO CLARA BARTON.
MISS CLARA BARTON, president of the
American Red Cross, was given a reception
at the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D. C.,
October 8. The chief decorations of the
parlors were flags of all nations, and the
orchestra played the national airs of the
principal countries of the world. Miss Barton
was assisted in receiving by Dr. Julius
Hubbell, field agent of the Red Cross, and
by Mr. A. M. Wister and Mr. George H.
Pullman, who accompanied her to Armenia.
	At the banquet covers were laid for one
hundred, on tables formed to represent six
large crosses of white with red stripes, like
emblems of the Red Cross Society.
The speakers were B. H. Warner, for
the citizens of Washington; Mrs. Sara
Spencer, on behalf of personal friends;
Commissioner Ross, for the District of
Columbia; Mrs. John A. Logan, on behalf
of wives, mothers and daughters of soldiers;
Mrs. M. B. Pratt, for the W. C. T. U. of
the district; Captain Huntoon, (instead of
Major McElroy,) for the G. A. R.; Mrs. 
Ellen Spencer Mussey, for women attor-
neys; Colonel Thomas Wilson, for the
Loyal Legion; Mrs. Ruth D. G. Havens,
for the Academy of Forty; Mrs. Sara D.
LaFetra, for the world’s W. C. T. U.; and
Mrs. Fannie Pomeroy, for the Legion of
Loyal Women. Secretary of the Navy
Herbert, who was among the guests, eulo-
gized. Miss Barton's work in organizing the
Red Cross so that it would exist as long as
the Government. Miss Barton in returning
her thanks said:
	Friends—If you ask of our mission what
we found and what we left, there is really
but this to say: We found want, desola-
tion and suffering, and relieved them so far
as we were able. In spite of all, these are
still there, and they have grown since.
Winter is approaching and unless the open
hands of charity, not of this country alone,
but of all civilized countries, be reached out
to them and access be secured, hunger and
cold will gather the victims in by the tens
of thousands, and bury them like the fall-
ing leaves beneath the snow."
	George A. Polk, financial secretary of
the society denied that the Sultan of Tur-
key had conferred a decoration on Miss Bar-
ton as had been reported. Miss Barton had
never spoken to the Sultan. Letters of
regret were read from Secretary Olney,
Postmaster-General Wilson, Secretary
Morton, Secretary Francis, General Greeley
and many others. - Ex.


THE recent National Council of Women
in Germany was a notable gathering.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build- 
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER I, 15, 1896.


[Column 1]
FOUNDER’S DAY.

AT BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.
	ON the 16th of October the anniversary
of the founding of the Brigham Young
Academy at Provo was appropriately cele-
brated, the institution at that time having
attained its majority, twenty-one years.
The street parade was very fine and
quite elaborate in some respects. The dif-
ferent classes and departments marching in
their order and carrying banners, flags and
colors with sentiments and symbols. The
ladies in white with colored scarfs or sashes
looked lovely, and the young men and wo-
men who carried green branches or boughs
shouting “Tree” were perhaps the most 
noticable, and certainly bore off the honors in
voicing their emblem.
	The day was fine and everything passed
off harmoniously, notwithstanding the long
line of people in carriages and on foot and
the bands of music and gay streamers as
well. The houses, business blocks etc.
were decorated and everything indicated a
gala day for Provo.
	The vast concourse of citizens, visitors
and Academic teachers and students filed
into the Tabernacle about 10 a. m. and the
master of ceremonies, Prof. Benjamin
Cluff, President of the Academy announced
the program. There were quite a number
of distinguished people present on the stand
President Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon, Apostles Brigham Young and
Heber J. Grant and Prof. Karl G. Maeser
and other notables. Quite a number of
President Brigham Young’s family occupied
seats of honor; the music was furnished
by the Academy students under the direc-
tion of Prof. Anton Lund Jr. President
Woodruff spoke a short time reviewing the
labors of the Founders of the institution and
expressing his reverence for this great man
Brigham Young and making such references
to the school as were best calculated to im-
press those present with its advantages, and
to cause the young people of today to appreci-
ate the privileges they enjoy as compared
with earlier times when the facilities for
education were very meager indeed.
	President George Q. Cannon was the
orator of the day. His address was forci-
ble and telling and calculated to inspire
those present with a true sense and appre-
ciation of the educational opportunities en-
joyed by the present generation.
	Prof. Maeser was much overcome when

[Column 2]
he tried to speak and was only able to say
a few words so tenderly was he touched
with the memories of the past.
	Captain Willard Young spoke a few
words dwelling upon the education of the
heart as well as the head. Prof. Cluff
made closing remarks, reviewing the work
of the several departments in a general
way and commenting upon methods etc.
After music and prayer the meeting was
dismissed and the crowd marched to the
Academy to partake of a sumptuous ban-
quet prepared by the Domestic Economy
Class of young women, whose motto is
“Helpful and Hopeful.”
	The tables were handsomely decorated
with flowers of the season and the whole
immense dining hall presented an inviting
appearance. It is quite impossible to go
into details, but suffice it to say the cooking
was excellent and the entire “menu”
which was not too elaborate but in strict
accordance with the hygienic system prac-
tised by the class under whose supervision
the dinner was given. Mrs. Susa Young
Gates having the management in charge.
	Toasts and sentiments were offered after-
wards by President George Q. Cannon,
Karl G. Maeser and others, and statements
were made of the condition of the Academy
and the need of establishing a collegiate
department such as would do credit to
Utah and to the great pioneer founder of
the school, Brigham Young. These mat-
ters were discussed and positive reasons
given for delaying the increase of expense,
and financial responsibility for the present
time.
	After dinner etc. classes were called in
the several departments to give the visitors
an idea of the order and methods pursued,
which was an interesting part of the affair.
	A reception was held in the evening in
order that the students might have the
opportunity of meeting and shaking hands
with Presidents Woodruff and Cannon, and
some others of the visitors from Salt Lake
City, who had been invited to the banquet
and exercises.
	The celebration has given those who
attended a better idea of the Academy and
its standing and future prospects, and cer-
tainly every person who loves Utah must
feel that this pioneer institution of learning
has done a magnificent work in the midst
of Zion.


[Column 1]
IMPORTANT TO WOMEN.

	To all Presidents of the Relief Society in
all its numerous branches, and to all agents
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and to all wo-
men interested in the welfare of the sex we
wish to urge the necessity of active meas-
ures being taken to sustain their own wo-
man’s paper. The times demand woman’s
best thoughts wisely expressed, and the
EXPONENT has for nearly a quarter of a
century been the champion of woman’s
cause, and the promoter of woman’s pro-
gress. The occasion requires now that
some definite measures be taken to secure
subscriptions, and to collect those unpaid
in order to maintain its existence, some-
thing should really be done to revive the
enthusiasm of the sisters, and in keeping
awake the interest of those who are indif-
ferent to their own best good, so that they
may not lose the opportunity of giving ex-
pression to their ideas from time to time,
and of making a record of their charitable

[Column 2]
and philanthropic work as well as having a
repository of literary and historic produc-
tions and recording biographies of women
whose lives afford rich examples for the
youth of Zion to emulate. In fact the his-
tory of the women of the state, and of this
intermountain region is to be found in the
EXPONENT, and it is desirable that in the
condition of the present time, special atten-
tion should be given to home interests and
home industries; the silk industry is
practically woman’s work and in this parti-
cular line of making it a success we need a
woman's paper to communicate ideas, in-
struction and the best methods of procedure.
Surely the sisters can comprehend how
essential it is to have some avenue of in-
formation on so important a matter as seri-
culture. The EXPONENT has always been
awake to the importance of this special
work for women and children, and has al-
ways welcomed any correspondence upon
this subject.
	The prestige the EXPONENT has given
the women of this Church in the outside
world is little realized; it has broken down
mountains of prejudice, it has gone into the
homes of the rich, and the famous, poets,
writers, philosophers, people of rank and
title; besides it affords opportunity to the
Elders who are out preaching the Gospel to
allay much prejudice they have to meet.
Many are the testimonies of Elders who re-
turn from missions in regard to the good
effects of this little home paper. 
	There are more home industries than the
silk, to be sure, and our women should not
forget the straw work—but at present silk
seems uppermost and to attract the most
attention; and it touches the people more
as a source of revenue, and money seems to
be the present craze and in no way can the
cause of sericulture be so thoroughly venti-
lated as through a paper zealously devoted
to the home interests, home productions
and home industries. 
	If every president would send out canvas-
sers in her respective ward and secure ten
subscriptions it would go a long way to-
wards relieving the embarrasing situation.
	Remember President Zina D. H. Young
gave this positive counsel some time ago,
and requested that the President see to it
that one good agent or two be appointed
from each Society. Any letter addressed
to this office asking for information upon
this matter will be promptly answered.


REV. ANNA HOWARD SHAW M. D.

	The coming of Dr. Shaw to speak in the
large Tabernacle was an event of considerable
importance, as she is really the most distin-
guished woman speaker on the platform.
This year she has been working vigorously
for the suffrage amendment in the State of
California, and naturally it has given her a
wonderful experience of Western life, and
particularly in relation to the conditions of
women in the Western States. Dr. Shaw
has received several ovations there that
were very gratifying and complimentary,
and assuredly the women of this state
were glad to show her the utmost
respect and accord the honor due to a grand
and noble woman whose life is devoted to
the advancement of her sex and the uplift-
ing of the race. Miss Shaw has a charm-
ing personality and commanding presence,
a winning and gracious manner and in fact
all the characteristics that are calculated to


edify and please an audience composed of
men and women accustomed to listen to
sublime subjects eloquently illustrated by
word painting.
	Of Dr. Shaw the press in all the large
cities where she has spoken has given
excellent testimonials.
	The Louisville Commercial, Louisville,
Ky., said “The Rev. Anna Shaw the
noted preacher of Boston, appeared before
two large audiences in this city yesterday
and established a reputation as a profound
thinker and eloquent and graceful
speaker.”
	Miss Shaw captivated her entire audience
and held it spellbound for about two hours
on the subject of “The Fate of Repub-
lics.” Her speech was a magnificent plea
for woman suffrage, interspersed with wit,
harmless sarcasm, considerable wisdom and
oceans of eloquence. She is a complete
bundle of natural and acquired niceties of
intellectual development. “She has a pure
silver tongue, oiled with honey and polished
with strong vinegar.”—The Home
Weekly.
	The San Francisco Chronicle said “ Five
thousand people waiting on the steps of the
Temple Emanuel for the purpose of hearing
the woman preacher’s last address does not
look as though her position were uncertain.
Mere curiosity does not take the same peo-
ple to nine consecutive sessions.”
	Another paper, The Empire, Toronto,
Canada, says, “She is a clever logician and
clinches her arguments well. It is impos-
sible to accuse her of either rant or tirade; 
her speech has force and definiteness, yet
always a touch of humor that keeps even
the crustiest audience on pleasant terms
with the speaker. She possesses a rich
contralto voice that rings full and sweet in
the largest auditorums and contributes
much to the enjoyment of her hearers.”
	Miss Shaw was accompanied by four
ladies who have been assisting in carrying
on the campaign for the suffrage amend-
ment to the Constitution in California.
They are Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Dr.
Shaw’s Secretary, a very able and genial
young woman, Mrs. Emma Sweet, Susan
B. Anthony’s Secretary who is all her
name implies and a great deal more, Miss
Mary G. Hay, who always makes a favor-
able impression and has an abundance of
executive ability, and Harriet May Mills,
who possesses the characteristics essential
for effective work in any great undertaking.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S WORK AND DUTY.
	NOW that the heat of the campaign is
over and the election held in all parts of the
United States, and the results comparative-
ly well known, it may be that the excite-
ment will subside and gradually things will 
assume their normal condition. Certainly
here in Utah there should not be such
material disturbances as to effect our pros-
perity, or the good feeling that should exist
with people whose interests are in so many 
respects closely identified with each other in
the welfare of the whole. So far as it is
possible the party feeling should be laid
aside, and especially among women there 
ought not to exist any intense partisanship
to hinder their working together for the
public good. In educational work particu-
larly women should show such deep inter-
est and true nobility of purpose as to secure
the admiration of all intelligent and high-
minded citizens. There is ample opportu-

[Column 2]
nity to do commendable work in this direc-
tion, and it is most desirable-that the
mothers should manifest the deepest interest
in the welfare of the children in the school-
room and see to it that all conditions are for
the best good of the scholars, not only in
books, desks, teachers and buildings of the
highest grade and attainments, but that the
sanitary regulations are of the most im-
proved methods. This seems to be the
special duty of the women voters; and
another important matter is the municipal
regulations of city affairs. In many cities
women have done effective work in this
direction, and have met with sincere appro-
bation because of the success achieved over
and above the results of man’s work alone.
	Utah is bound to become a great and
prosperous state, and it never can be un-
less it has great women as well as great
men. Both are equally necessary for the
achievement to be gained, and the young
women of the present generation, would do
well to emulate the heroic example of the
women who helped men to lay the founda-
tion of this prosperous and growing state.
	There are some particular objects far-see-
ing women have been anxious to promote,
and that they have felt the state should
foster in the way of giving remunerative
employment to the people, and also that it
would be beneficial in several ways. These
are perhaps to men trivial things in com-
parison with other more noticable legisla-
tion, but it is trifles that make up the sum
of human existence.
	In this connection it is only just to men-
tion the silk industry, which has received
something of an impetus during the last
year, since the appropriation made by the
first legislature of the new State; but the
work requires more help and greater effort
to establish it permanently and make it pay
for the means invested. If something
more substantial were done, the State
would then realize the utility of investment.
	The Kindergarten system in connection
with the public schools should be brought
before the legislature and the matter pushed
to a realization, (and by the way) in Bear
River City, Box Elder Co., the women
have succeeded in having a kindergarten in
connection with the district school.
	A public library and reading room will
also be a subject for serious consideration,
and one might go into other matters for the
betterment of the people, and aids to the
home, but mere suggestions are all that
was intended in this article.
	A small number of women were nomina-
ted by each of the two great parties and the
Democrats having elected their ticket, it
follows that all the women nominated by
them are elected. So far we are not quite
sure of all in the state, but in Salt Lake
county we know there are three and in
Utah county one. From this city Dr.
Martha Hughes Cannon goes to the Senate,
Mrs. Eurithe LaBarthe to the House, Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine will fill the office
of Auditor; and Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of
Provo, Treasurer of Utah Co.
	These are all women in the prime of life,
with good mentality and manifest activity,
and capability in other positions, and it
seems a foregone conclusion that they will 
acquit themselves well and do honor to the
cause of equal suffrage. There are no
supposable grounds for thinking otherwise,
and certainiy they are to be congratulated.
	It is a disappointment that all the wo-
men were not elected, for it would have

[Column 3]
been a much truer, test of women’s power
had there been some women from each
party; as it is the Republican party having
lost everything here, and nearly everything
throughout the entire state, women as well
as men must content themselves as best
they can until another election, when
things may be different. Therefore we re-
peat the old saying, “Make the best of it.”
	The vote for Presidential electors was
also overwhelmingly in favor of the Bryan
electors and consequently the Democrats
have won the day in Utah, though their
candidate for President is not the victor
this time.
	Looking at the matter philosophically
the time evidently had not come for so
decided a change in the nation; the Latter-
day Saints believe implicitly in an over-
ruling Providence that guides, directs and
controls the affairs of nations. And assuredly
in this case the people had exerted their
utmost strength at the polls, and the cam-
paign had been rigorously pushed through-
out the entire country. Whatever changes
may come it is wise to hope and believe all
will be for the best eventually, even though
it may seem hard and be contrary to what
the people generally were longing, hoping
and praying for.
	The Latter-day Saints know that it is their
duty to live their religion to have faith in
the promises of God made to His people from
time to time through His servants, and
whatever changes come or difficulties, or
tribulations, to maintain their integrity to
the Gospel unflinchingly through good or ill
report in all places and at all times. Who-
ever can do this, discharging every duty
faithfully, cannot fail to secure peace of
mind and have the courage that will carry
them through all the trials and difficulties
of life, and help them to obtain eternal life
in the world to come.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE Executive meeting of the National
Council of Women of the United States,
will he held this year in Boston on Decem-
ber 2nd, 3rd and 4th. Notices have been
sent to each society belonging to the Coun-
cil to send delegates, but this year Utah
organizations cannot conveniently send
representatives on account of the great dis-
tance and the scarcity of means.
	THE book of poems to be issued by Mrs.
E. B. Wells is now in course of publication
at the office of the Juvenile Instructor, more
than one third of the pages have been
prepared, and it is expected the Book will
be ready for subscribers before Christmas.
The title will be MUSINGS AND MEMORIES
and the size and shape of the Dictionary of
the Book of Mormon.
	As the list of names of Presidents and
Secretaries is now nearly complete and
ready for publication, and finding a delin-
quency in this Stake, we find it necessary
to make another request that each Presi-
dent of a Relief Society in Salt Lake City
and County send by letter or postal to this
office the full name and Post Office address
of President and Secretary of her respective
society, at the earliest possible date. 
	THE reception on Nov. 9 to Dr. Shaw
and her party of ladies at the Templeton
Hotel was a great disappointment on ac-
count of the inclemency of the weather;
the lecture in the evening was also sparsely


attended for the same reason; but it was a
success in every other respect; her subject
was “The Fate of Republics” and was
handled in a masterly manner. Miss Shaw
was introduced to the audience by Gover-
ner Wells in a brief but very graceful
speech, and her audience were appreciative
and sympathetically responsive, and all
hoped it would not be her last visit to Salt
Lake City.
	AT a business meeting of the officers of
the State Suffrage Association held in the
office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT on Wed-
nesday, October 7, at 11 a. m. (and as this
was the time for the election of officers for
the ensuing year) a quorum being present,
among other matters considered was the
subject of continuing the Association, the
members having since obtaining the fran-
chise divided on party lines. In this con-
nection Mrs. Emily S. Richards moved
that the Association hold over until next
April, and that official letters be sent to
all County organizations requesting them
to give an expression in writing on the
question of continuing the different organ-
izations. The motion was seconded by
Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, and carried unanimous-
ly. After the transaction of some other
business, the meeting adjourned subject to
he call of the President.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Oct. 17, 1896, Counselor E.
Webb presiding. Singing “Lord we come
before Thee now,” prayer by Counselor
Clara C. Cannon, singing “Welcome best
of all good meetings,” minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Counselor
Webb thought we could have a very
pleasant meeting although there were so
few here, for the Lord had promised that
where a few had met together in His name
there He would be also; said there was a
good deal of sickness now and we had need to
put our trust in the Lord; made some excel-
lent remarks.  Regretted very much Presi-
dent Horne’s sickness which prevented her
being here with the sisters.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, felt she was strengthened in
doing so, said the sisters faces, no matter
how old and plain they might be, looked
beautiful to her; spoke of her severe ill-
ness and how she was healed almost instant-
ly by faith, said it would take hours to tell
of her blessings. Prayed God to bless us
all and strengthen us.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball said the sen-
tence just came to her “ If ye love me, feed
my sheep,” thought by attending these
meetings we were fed, spoke of a sister’s
fast day meeting experience, and on faith
and asked questions on the same. Referred
to Sister Rachel Grant’s affliction, of her
deafness, felt we should exercise more faith
for our loved ones and for ourselves, culti-
vate our faith by living pure lives and be-
coming pure in heart. Proposed that the
key-note of the meeting and the next two
weeks to be “Faith,” prayed the Lord to
give us the spirit of inspiration and of faith,
that when we laid our hands on the sick
they might be healed.
	President Mary A. Hyde felt it a privil-
ege to meet here with the sisters today,
said when she first joined the Church she
could pick out every Latter-day Saint in a

[Column 2]
congregation by the glow on their faces
which was the Spirit of the Lord, this was
a great testimony to her; bore a strong
testimony, spoke of her association with
the Prophet Joseph Smith also of her brok-
en limb and how she was healed by the
power of faith, made some other excellent
remarks.
	Sister J. C. Howe said since meeting
with us last she had great cause for grati-
tude, told how she had met with a very
severe accident, had fallen from a high
place and injured her arm; her first
thought was to be administered to which
was done and she was healed, felt to praise
the Lord for this, considered it was the
duty when we had these manifestations of
God’s goodness to us to speak of these
things. Prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Armeda S. Young felt while the
sisters were speaking on faith she must
arise and speak of how she was blest. She
referred to the work of Sister Sorenson, she
had fasted and prayed that she might have
an opportunity of speaking to President
Woodruff about this work. She had the
chance and President Woodruff said to her,
‘‘God bless you and go on with your
work.” She felt comforted and blest by
this. Bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul spoke on Faith also
testified that God did hear and answer our
prayers, the Lord was displeased with none
so much as those that did not acknowledge
His hand, told how she had been healed
and how she had helped to administer to
others, felt it was our duty to speak of these
things. Prayed God to bless us all and
increase our faith. Sister Paul was filled
with the spirit of prophecy, and prophecied
many good things for the sisters.
	Sister Waterfall gave her experiences in
her sickness and how she had been healed
bore her testimony and felt to praise the
Lord.
	Sister Allred related her experience
when a very young girl before joining the
Church, she had a very sick spell and was
healed by the Elders of the Church. Bore
a faithful testimony.
	Counselor E T. Webb felt we had had a
very good meeting and hoped we would act
upon Sister Kimball’s suggestion and study
the subject of faith, and all have something
to say at the next meeting about it. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Mary Alice Lambert.
				ZINA HYDE, Sec.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

ROME, Saturday Dec. 3, 1895.
	THE journey was resumed by rail via
Chiusi and Arrezzo, the latter a town in
the grand duchy of Tuscany at the influx
of the Chiano into the Arno, 55 miles from
Florence, anciently celebrated for terra-
cotta vases. The celebrated painter Spin-
etto Aretino was born here; he was es-
teemed equal to Giotto in design and his
superior in painting; also the birthplace of
Petrarch (the house still stands in the
Strada dell’ Orte) in the immediate neigh-
borhood Michael Angelo was born. The
scenery along this route is beautiful and
every inch of the way most interesting.
Not far from Arrezzo we pass Carlona, an
ancient town on a hill overlooking Logo
Trasimeno, the site of the Hannibals vic-
tory and the beautiful Valle di Chiano, there
are remains of Etruscan walls, the

[Column 2]
Cathedral and churches are adorned with
pictures by Fra Angelico, Signorelli and
other later painters. Another interesting
place was Perugia, the Roman Perusia, an
Etruscan city on a hill 1300 feet above the
old valley of the Tiber. In the Collegio
del’ Cambio there is a beautiful room decor-
ated with frescoes by Perugino, the Cathed-
ral St. Lorenzo contains Baroccios Master-
piece a Descent from the Cross, and the
library contains rich manuscript, the church
St. Domenico is noted for exquisite stained
glass and the monument of Pope Benedict
XI. About fifteen miles from here is
Assisi, famous for the great Francescan
Monastery founded in 1228; its churches
also are rich in art treasures, the Monas-
teries are most interesting. We noticed
when passing the Carthusian Monastery,
the Monks have each a tiny house, a room
to live and eat in, another to sleep in; the
rooms have balconies overlooking the gar-
dens which are bright with colors and fra-
grant with sweet smells.
	We arrive at Florence (the city of flowers)
pleasantly situated among the hills with
the river Arno flowing through the city, on
its right bank is the splendid walk of the
Cascine, on the left the beautiful Viale dei
Colli. Driving to our hotel we had splen-
did views of the bridge, over the Arno, Mr.
Mc. V. pointing out Ponte Vecchio, rebuilt
in 1362, remarkable for its double line of
shops, the Ponte G Trinita is a handsome
bridge, [16th century] with statues of the
Seasons. The Campanile, the unrivaled
work of Giotto is 292 feet high of many
colored marbles and adorned with statues
and reliefs by Donatello, Andrea, Pisano
and other Masters. We reach Hotel Wash-
ington 6, Lung Arno Movo Alexander de
Gablo in time for dinner.
	December 4.—Early morning found us
on the Piazza della Signoria, the business
center of Florence and historic, as here
Savonarola was hanged and burned in 1498.
“After the departure of Charles VIII,
Savonarola was made lawgiver of Florence:
a council with a select committee like that
of Venice but with Christ as their king in-
stead of a Doge, was the government that he
advocated; his throne was the pulpit; he
ruled for three years. During this time
such an inspiration of love and sacrifice
breathed throughout Florence that unlawful
possessions were restored, enemies embrac-
ed, hymns, not ballads were sung in the
streets, and the adherents of Savonarola
went from house to house collecting all
sensuous books and pictures, which they
burnt on a huge pyre on the last day of
the carnival. About the time Savonarola
was hung Amerigo Vespucci of Florence
who gave his name to America, explored the
coast of Venezuela.”
	Our manager pointed out Palazzo Vecchio
the residence of Cosmo I. begun in 1298,
an example of the Florentine castles of the
middle ages, at the entrance is Bandinelli’s
group of Hercules and Cacus, the court is
adorned with sculptured columns and an
elegant fountain with a figure of Vorocchio,
the great hall is frescoed by Vosari and
contains Passaglio’s statue of Savonarola.
Near the place is a magnificent fountain of
the time of Cosmo I. and an exquestrian
statue of Cosmo by John of Bologna 1594; 
in the same square is the Loggia dei Lanzi
14th century, an open vaulted hall very
beautiful and containing masterpieces of
sculpture, adjoined to this is the Portico
degli Uffizi adorned with statues of cele-


brated Tuscans. In the second story of
this building is the famous Uffizi Gallery,
the hall known as the Tribune is the rich-
est room in the world and contains the
Venus de’ Medici, one of the most perfect
specimens of sculpture existing, found in
Hadrian’s villa at Tivoli, the Dancing
Faun, the Apollino, the Wrestlers, all mar-
vels of beauty, while in painting the
best works of Raphael, Michael Angelo,
Titian, Correggio, besides a rich collection
of Etruscan and Italo Grecian vases and
nearly 30,000 drawings by the great
Masters. On the first floor of the building
is the Blblioteca Nationale which contains
300,000 volumes and 8000 manuscripts
much of it is of great rarity. The building
is splendid, of rich simplicity. Connected
with this palace by a bridge a mile long is
the Pitti palace. We walked over the
bridge which is hung with portraits; there
were many of Catherine de Medici, only child
of Lorenzo de’ Medici, she was the wicked
queen of France. Here she is attired in
ermine, royal purple and jewels, looking
defiant while the portraits I saw of her in
France she was penitent, always in an
attitude of prayer. One of the party said
to me “She was not nearly so wicked as
Catherine II. of Russia.” There were por-
traits of the kings and queens of all the
kingdoms and here was a beautiful portrait
of Nell Gwynne; a lady from Dublin said
she was acquainted with her descendants
and there were three beautiful sisters, all
like Nell, not chaste. The tramp across
that bridge is long to be remembered and
in the Palace the front of which is occupied
by His Majesty, King Humbert. We
went though the Art Gallery where we saw
the beautiful blue Madonna, and the
Madonna della Seggiola by Raphaelle, a
circular picture painted in 1516. The
Madonna sits in a low chair holding the
child on her knees; at her side St. John
folds his little hands in prayer; she wears a
many colored handkerchief on her head and
one on her shoulders—it is most beautiful.
There was an exquisite Madonna and Child
by Murillo and that beautiful gem the Fates
by Rosso Fiorentino, ascribed to Michael
Angelo.
	Leaving the Pitti Palace we visited the
Casa Guida, long the residence of the
Brownings, in the Piazza S. Felice and the
house of Michael Angelo, No. 64 via
Ghibellina, and the house where Dante
was born, in the via Dante Alighieri, and
No. 2 is that of Amerigo Vespucci. Then
we visited the Baptistery to see the remark-
able bronze doors by Ghiberti, the one
nearest the church Michael Angelo
said when he looked at them “Worthy to
be the Gates of Heaven.” The streets of
Florence are old, narrow and twisting, but
in the small windows of the shops are the
most beautiful things; I wished for great
wealth that I might buy some of the art
treasures but since I could not buy, it was
a delight to admire.
	We now took carriages and drove to the
highest part of the Boboli Garden where
we had a superb view of the city, and to
the west the Vale of Arno. The hills are
very beautiful and the plains covered with
villages and country residences. Then
we drove to the Foundling Hospital with
the famous Medallions of infants in
swaddling clothes, by Andrea della Robba,
they are most curious and priceless, money
would not purchase one. Home to dinner.
						KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.

Dear Sister:
	I WILL endeavor to write a brief account of the
life and labors of Sister Ann E. Cook, President
of the Garden City Relief Society who died on
the 18th of May, 1896. She was one of the most
patient uncomplaining women that ever lived and
always had a kind word for every one. She has
been a subscriber for the EXPONENT ever since
it was first started. It is quite impossible for one
to do justice to her exemplary life and many
virtues.
	She was born in the town of Stillwater, Sara-
toga Co., New York, June 18, 1823, and was the
daughter of Henry and Phebe Baker Howland.
	When she was about seventeen years of age
her parents removed to Kalamazoo Co., Michi-
gan. In 1840 she married Phineas W. Cook and
in the winter of 1844 and 45 they heard the first
sound of the glorious Gospel and gladly received
it, she being the only one of her father’s family
who has ever received it, and her husband and
one sister were the only ones of his family who
believed and were baptized. They came to the
Saints at Winter Quarters and shared in the hard-
ships and privations that were borne by them,
coming to Utah in 1848 when President Young’s
family came.
	Sister Cook was appointed president of the
Garden City Relief Society in 1876 at its first or-
ganization in which capacity she labored faith-
fully until her death; she was beloved by all who
knew her. She was the mother of sixteen child-
ren ten of whom preceded her to the other side;
she leaves four sons, two daughters, thirty grand-
children and nineteen great grandchildren. She
always bore a faithful testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, and was always willing to do any-
thing she was called to do according to the best
of her ability.
	No matter what trials and privations she had to
pass through she was never known to murmur or
complain against the justice and mercy of her
Heavenly Father. She always taught her child-
ren to pray to Him and revere His Holy Name.
	She died in full faith of a glorious resurrection.
								H. B. T.
Garden City, Rich Co., Utah, Oct. 19 1896.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

SUSAN VILATE MUIR.
	SUSAN VILATE MUIR, daughter of the late
Jedediah M. and Susan Grant, was born in Salt
Lake City, Utah, on the 19th day of September,
1855, and died at Randolph, Rich county, Utah,
on September 29, 1896, being 41 years and 9 days
old. She was married to William S. Muir, Jr., in
the year 1871 and moved from Bountiful to Ran-
dolph in 1888. She was an affectionate daughter,
a faithful wife, a loving mother and an earnest
and sincere Latter-day Saint, and as such will be
mourned by a host of relatives and friends. She
leaves a husband and ten children, four sons and
six daughters, her youngest being three weeks
old at the time of her death; she also leaves
two grandchildren. She was very highly esteem-
ed and her many good traits of character were
appreciated by the Saints where she resided.
Her funeral was largely attended by the good
people of Randolph and Woodruff and by
relatives from Salt Lake and Bountiful, and the
funeral sermon, preached by her brother, Elder
Heber J. Grant, was full of comfort and encour-
agement to the bereaved family and friends. May
she rest in peace till the morning of the first
resurrection, when she will be found worthy of
rich blessings in our Father’s kingdom.—[COM.
EMILY E. HILL.
	DIED, at Ogden City, Utah, October 11, 1896,
Emily Eliza Hill, beloved wife of Elder William
S. Hill and daughter of Thomas and Elisabeth
Maria Reeder, pioneer settlers in Wellsville,
Cache county, and later of Ogden City. She was
the first girl baby that was born in the then new
settlement of Wellsville on the 13th of November,
1859. She was baptized at eight years old, and
through her girlhood proved herself a very
affectionate child. When she was about 10 years,
of age she had a narrow escape from death, hav-
ing been accidentally shot in the forehead with a
rfflie bullet which glanced and only made a
severe scalp wound.
	On June 27, 1879, she was married at the House
of the Lord in Salt Lake City to Elder William S.
Hill, whom she accompanied in 1884 on a mis-
sion to settle in St. Johns, Arizona. They re-
mained there five years and then returned to

[Column 2]
Ogden. When she died she left behind her two
sons and five daughters, a new born babe dying
at its birth.
	The funeral took place from the Third ward of
Ogden city, Elders Joseph Parry and Henry
Newman testified to the deceased’s sterling
worth and faithfulness and the certainty to her of
an early and glorious resurrection and eternal
life.
				FRANCIS H. REEDER.
LYDIA DOWNER GATES.
	DIED in Wilson ward, Weber county, Utah, at
the residence of her daughter, Mrs. Willard Bing-
ham, at 12:30 a. m., Sunday, October 11, 1896,
after a short illness, Lydia Downer Gates, aged
86 years and 3 months. Mother Gates was born
in the state of Vermont, July 12, 1810; married
Samuel Gates in the year 1830, by whom she had
twelve children, eight of whom besides her hus-
band have long since preceded her to the spirit
land. She and her husband joined the Church in
Michigan at an early date, and soon after gather-
ed with the Saints. They were well acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith, who had often
shared the hospitality of their humble dwelling
and for whom they always ertertained the highest
love and regard. They also willingly rendered
their mite in the erection of the Nauvoo Temple,
and were among the few who received their en-
dowments therein. They shared in all the perse-
cutions and drivings incident to that time; cross-
ing the Missouri river in early spring and set-
tling with the Camp of Israel, arriving in Utah in
1850. They settled in the spot where the old
Bingham fort (now called Five Points, Lynne dis-
trict) was built in Weber county, making this their
home, and which place widow Gates held pos-
session of the homestead up to the day of her
death, but had a short time since rented the
place and moved to live with her daughter in
Wilson Lane, from which place the corpse was
conveyed in a hearse to the Lynne meeting
house.
	The obsequies were conducted by Bishop
Smuin of Lynne ward, on Monday, October 12th,
1896, there being on the stand Elders L. W.
Shurtliff and C. F. Middleton of the Stake presi-
dency; Elder Lorin Farr, president of the High
Priest’s quorum; High Councilor Joseph Parry
of Ogden; Patriarch P. G. Taylor of Harrisville
Bishop Bingham of Riverdale; Bishop Backham
of Wilson Lane ward and others.
	After prayer and appropriate singing by the
choir, Bishop Smuin, Elders Farr and Parry, and
President L. W. Shurtliff spoke of the noble
career of Mother Gates for the sixty years of their
acquaintance with her, and said the legacy of
righteousness which she left to her offspring was
better than riches. None of them knew of any
faults in Mother Gates during their life-long ac-
quaintance, for she was never known to sit in the
seat of the scornful, or found complaining against
the Lord’s anointed, but was full to the brim
with charity and good works and was always
prompt to her meetings. She was fully up to the
standard in the payment of tithes and offerings,
even in her widowhood, and had nobly supported
the eternal order of marriage. Surely it can be
said she died the death of the righteous.
	The remains were viewed by a large concourse
of people. The features were as placid as in
balmy sleep. The pall bearers were her near
young relatives, who bore the beautiful white cof-
fin to the superb white hearse which was follow-
ed to the Ogden City cemetery by a host of
relatives and friends. The remains were con-
signed to rest in the Ogden cemetery till the
resurrection of the just.
							P. L.
ADELIA A. KIMBALL.
	DIED at Kanosh, Millard county, October 19,
1896, Adelia A. Kimball, aged 68 years, 7 months
and 17 days.
	She was the daughter of Catherine and Eber
Wilcox, and was born in Shandgo county, New
York. She was first married to William Hatton
who was killed by Indians in Fillmore, which
left her a widow with three small children, Wil-
liam, Henry and Mary Eliza. She was after-
wards married to President Heber C. Kimball
and lived in his family until her daughter Mary
Eliza was married to Abraham A. Kimball and
he was called on a mission to the Muddy. She
accompanied them and there she acted as presi-
dent of the Relief Society. The family after a
few years spent in that then inhospitable country,
moved north as far as Kanosh county, where she
has lived up to the time of her death. On Jan. 1,
1875 she was elected president of the Relief
Society of the Kanosh ward and for nearly


twenty-two-years has labored faithfully in that
capacity. She was well qualified for that posi-
tion, being a woman of kind and gentle disposi-
tion, always ready with the healing balm of
charity and spiritual counsel for the afflicted.
Her soul was full of peace to all mankind. She
was never known to endorse a slander or en-
courage gossip. She had a great reverence for
the Priesthood, and her presence brought with it
an influence of peace. Even the rudest boys up-
on the streets noted aunt Ade[-]ia’s approach, for
all who knew her loved her. For the last two
years her health has been failing, and for the last
year she has been mostly confined to her bed.
She was conscious to the last, and as the shadows
of this life bore down upon her and the horizon
of her bright reward was dawning, she called her
children and her grandchildren around her bed
and bore to them a faithful testimony of the truth
of the Gospel urging them to be true and stead-
fast in the great work of God, then silently passed
away. The immediate cause of death was catarrh
of the stomach and head, from which she suffered
greatly.
	The funeral was under the direction of the
ward Relief Society and was beautifully conduct-
ed. The procession walked from the residence
two blocks to the meeting hall; first came Presi-
dent I. N. Hinckley and Bishop Jessie Hopkin-
son, followed by two members of the High Coun-
cil then the Bishop’s counselors followed by six
veterans in the Priesthood, bearing in their hands
the beautiful casket containing the corpse then
followed the whole body of the Relief Society,
and lastly citizens of all ages and faith, did honor
to the deceased. The casket was placed in the
center of the hall and upon it stood a large cross
of new cut flowers.
	B. H. Watts, George Crane, James Abraham
and Bishop Hopkinson were the speakers and
President I. N. Hinckley endorsed all the good
things that had been said of our departed sister.
He counseled her offspring and all assembled to
emulate her life and example, as being among
the bright and faithful ones of this life. Then
was tenderly laid away the body of a rare mem-
ber of womankind, whose peaceful life leaves
sweet memories with all who knew her.
GEORGE CRANE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE SNARE.

	IN section 90 and 17th verse of the
Doctrine and Covenants it reads thus: "Be
not ashamed neither confounded, but be
admonished in all your high mindedness
and pride, for it bringeth a snare upon your
souls.” It also says “Cease to be idle,
cease to be unclean.”—Yes truly our
Father requires us to be pure, both mentally
and physically clean, or we are not fit to
come into His kingdom; but this caution
upon high-mindedness and pride has been
repeated many times in the old Testament
as well as the New, but not in this form
telling us of the snare.
	But it is a caution and should be observ-
ed you will no doubt admit, and after
being repeated by so many prophets both
ancient and modern, shall we now be slack
and treat the subject with indifference?
Then we shall undoubtedly feel the snare,
even as the Apostle Peter did, for I think
he was a high-minded, proud man natu-
rally.
	Had he been humble he would have ask-
ed our Savior why He washed His disci-
ples feet, for he would be ashamed to have
his Lord and Master do this for him; but
instead of this he quickly said “Thou
shalt never wash my feet,” the reply was,
"Then thou wilt have no part or lot with
me;" but behold how quickly he was
humbled and said "Not only my feet, but
my hands and head." Jesus said "Ye
are clean but not all."
	Then you remember when told by our
Savior “He that hath no sword let him
sell his garment and buy one,” He was
told “We have two swords,” the reply
was “It is enough.”

[Column 2]
	Here Peter saw a crisis was at hand and
was ready and willing to use the sword,
which he did and was told to put up his
sword in its sheath. How astonished to
hear this! What benefit is a sword kept
in its sheath? Here he flew into a passion
and said “I do not know his meaning. No
I do not know the man.” He denied Him
three times, then the cock crowed; Jesus
gave him a look which Peter felt, remem-
bering the words “Before the cock crows
twice thou wilt deny me thrice.” The
Apostle Peter went out and wept bitterly.
Here humility took the place which pride
and self-conceit had left, for this is the
spirit of the world and we being of the
earth earthy, we find it is our spirit at
times although we think we are humble or
try to be so at least, yet we find we have a
will power which may be used with indis-
cretion at times when in haste, and we do
not take time to consider the consequences.
	You will remember our Savior previous-
ly told Peter that “Satan desires to sift
thee as wheat, but I have prayed for thee.”
Now I would ask, was he not in the sieve
at the time of these trials? (And where
in does the sieve differ from the snare, for
they are surely in the hands of the tempter,)
until he was again humble, then the Lord
could deliver him and surely his lesson was
a profitable one, teaching him the difference
between pride and self-conceit, and dignity
and self-respect; the former being the
spirit of the world and the latter the Spirit
of Christ; for this dignity enabled Him to
reject the tempter every time until he gained
the victory. Yet always answering him in
a respectful manner yet firm and decided.
Is not this God-like?
	Does not this spirit belong to every
sound-minded, religious person?
	Not only so, but the good spirit requires
you to love your enemies, do good to those
who hate you, making sacrifices. “If he
ask you to give him your coat, give him
your cloak also; if he ask you to go a mile,
go with him twain,” etc., then you become
worthy to be called the children of your
Father.
	This nobility of character does not be-
long to the proud ones of this world. No,
they can not understand such humility as
this. The spirit of the world could not
comprehend it. No, it takes the wisdom
of the Deity to keep out of the snare that is
ready for us if we lean so much upon our
own strength and do not observe the golden
rule. Let us then be humble and acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in our chastise-
ment; for it seems that we are already in
the snare, ever since politics divided us, as
Jesus said “except ye are one ye are not
mine.” Humility is our only safe-guard,
for the Lord resists the proud but gives
grace to the humble.
	St. Paul tells us that all our afflictions
will be sanctified to our good in as much as
we fear God and keep his commandments.
This is a comfort; then let us not grieve
the good Spirit of our Father who is watch-
ing to do good to all who put their trust in
Him. This is the faith of
ZION'S CONVERT.
S. L. City, Aug. 10, 1896.

	MISS HARRIET MAY MILLS contrlbutes
to the Woman's Journal graphic letters
describing the California campaign.
	MRS. HELEN M. GOUGAR of Lafayette,
Ind., has been speaking in many places in
Ohio in behalf of free silver.

[Column 3]
	IN Montana, following the example of
Idaho, all four of the political parties have
put a woman suffrage plank in their plat-
forms—Democrats, Populists and both
wings of the Republicans.---Boston Tran-
script.
	THE women of France prepared a
monster petition, which was presented to
the Czarina on her visit to Paris, asking her
to exert her influence with her husband to
obtain the deliverance of Armenia from
Turkish rule.—Ex.
	AT Melbourn, Victoria, on October 9,
the Assembly, after an all-night sitting,
passed the second reading of the bill estab-
lishing woman suffrage and “one man, one
vote.”

	BEFORE the next issue of the WOMAN'S
JOURNAL the most momentous national
election held for many years will have been
decided; and of the millions of women
whose interests are at stake, not one will
have had a voice in determining the result
except those who live in Wyoming, Utah
and Colorado.—Woman's Journal.

	MRS. HUMPHREY WARD'S latest book,
“Sir George Tressady,” which has just
appeared, is considered the most interesting
of this great novelist’s books. The author
occupies a place in the first rank of modern
writers. Mrs. Ward, as is well known,
comes from the brilliant Arnold family, of
which Mathew Arnold was a member.
Her early years were spent in Oxford, and
she grew up under the influence of that
city’s intellectual life. She is not only a
student of books but of men, and her time
is divided almost equally between her uni-
versity extension work and writing. Mrs.
Ward is, without doubt, the best paid of
living novelists. Out of “Robert Else-
mere,” “David Grieve” and “Marcella”
she has probably made $3,000,000, and for
the last one published she will receive more
than for any other.

	AT the Woman’s Congress in Berlin
the greater part of the addresses was in-
deed worth hearing, giving news and de-
tails of the work of women all over the
world. The papers on the University
studies of women, and on the practice of
medical women read by doctors from
America, Russia, Armenia, Bosnia, France
and Italy were received with the same
sympathy as the papers on the Working
Women Question of the different countries.
The claim for participation in poor and
orphanage work met with as great an inter-
est as the Woman’s Right Question; and
the legal disabilities of German women
were just as much condemned as the
Government’s indifference to prostitution,
all in all, one hundred papers were read.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1896.	No. 11.


CONTENTS:

	Utah Woman’s Press Club—E. R. Shipp, Sec
National Council Of Women Of The United
States. Leaves From My Journal—Kim. Relief
Society General Conference—E. B. Wells, Sec.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina Hyde, Sec.
In Memoriam. Woman’s Co-op Store—D. Wel-
come Idaho! Ceramics—S. L. M.
	EDITORIAL—Editorial Notes.  A Tender
Tribute. A Kensington Tea.
	POETRY:—Thanksgiving—L. M. Hewlings. 
Moonlight On The Pier—Hyacinth That Little
Brook—E. B. W. Thanksgiving thoughts—Ellis
R. Shipp.


For the Exponent.
THANKSGIVING.
As a flower from the soil looks up
	To greet the gladsome light,
That fills with fragrance its gay cup.
	And makes its petals bright;
So may our hearts look up to Thee,
	Oh God, our Sun, our Spring!
And every grateful faculty
	To Thee its glad song sing!
For tables bountifully spread, 
	For homes and hearts that love,
For every good that crowns our head, 
	For hopes that live above.
For all the streams of good that flow
	Down from Thy distant rills,
We thank Thee God, they come we know, 
	From Thine eternal hills.
We thank Thee for the friends still ours,
	We thank Thee none the less
For those we’ve had although their powers 
	Our lives no longer bless.
For like a meteor in the sky,
	Though they have gone from sight,
Their passing trail still greets the eye,
	And makes our night-sky bright.
Teach us to hear the songs of life;
	Teach us to see its beauty;
Oh strengthen us in every strife,
	Gird us for every duty.
And since whate’er we have was given,
	And still by right is Thine,
Teach us that earth is likest heaven
	Through charity divine.
					L. M. HEWLINGS.
S. L. C.


MOONLIGHT ON THE PIER.

’TWAS an autumn night,
	  Full of mellow light,
		Long, long ago—
When the whisp'ring breeze,
	From the distant leas,
 		Blew soft and low— 
Till its soothing breath, 
	Stole with unseen stealth,
That with mystic art,
	Calmed my troubled heart,
		Long, long ago.


Where the wooden pier,
	Stands with unfelt fear,
		All, all alone—
While the turbid waves,
	Round it fondly laves, 
		With quiet tone.
And the ripples round, 
	Dance with merry bound, 
Making music rare, 
	Fill the balmy air, 
		All, all alone.
Gleams the moonbeams’ light, 
	O’er the mountains’ hight, 
		Far, far away—
Soon its shining ray,
	Meets the waters’ spray, 
		Cold, cold and gray.
Now they wanton rest,
	On the wavelets crest, 
Till their mingled tone,
	Sends an echoed moan,
		Far, far away.
Far from friendly land, 
	We in silence stand,
		On, on the pier--
With its feeble hold,
	Sunk ’neath waters cold,
		As in a bier. 
Round us moonbeams fall,
	Like a silver pall,
Veiling unknown thought
	From each howe'er sought,
		On, on the pier. 
				HYACINTH.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB

REVIEW OF THE YEAR ENDING OCT. 31, 1896.
	THE past year has been one of unflagging
interest and most gratifying progress.
	We have held our meetings on the last
day of every month, with occasional bi-
monthly meetings for the transaction of
business. We do not limit our member-
ship and our members have increased
steadily, and we find by consulting our
roll many brilliant women added to our
number.
	Our object is to encourage young writers,
our president being an adept in bringing
out latent talent; and we find that every
well-directed effort brings its own reward.
	Our work has been nearly all original.
Biographical sketches, original sentiments
and poems, and impromptu speeches. We
have been addressed by many renowned
speakers both of national reputation and
local fame; among the former are the
Misses Chase of Boston; Dr. Sarah J.
Elliott, a friend and champion of Clara Bar-
ton; Laura M. Johns, the W. S A. organ-
izer and speaker; and the beautiful and
talented Elizabeth Upham Yates; and to
others though perhaps not so world famous
but to us none the less dear, have we listen-
ed, Pres. Zina D. H. Young, our Pres. E.
B. Wells, Emma J. McVicker, one of the
Board of Regents of the University of
Utah; Mrs. Emily S. Richards, member
of the Board of the Agricultural College of
Logan; Dr. E. B. Fergusen, a noted

[Column 2]
lecturer and public speaker; Isabel Cameron
Brown, wife of U. S. Senator Arthur
Brown; Mrs. Martha B. Jennings, Presi-
dent of the Utah Federation of Woman’s
Clubs, and many others.
	Our subjects for discussion have been,
historical, scientific, poetical and political;
we have debated the double money stand-
ard, single tax question and Parliamentary
Law. 
	We elect officers once a year. No officer
is permitted, according to our Constitution,
to hold an office more than two years; so
a greater number has the opportunity for
the experience. It has been our good
pleasure to entertain a number of notable
personages, and we have likewise been the
recipient of most pleasant entertainment by
the Ladies Literary Club, and several of
our own members.
	We encourage sociability, feeling that it
fosters love and unity which in turn is the
true secret of strength. We as an organ-
ization have great respect for the general
press; we consider it the friend of practice
and reason, the best exponent of virtue,
and a potent subduer of vice. Think of the
condition of the world before printing was
invented. One writer has said:  “From
that hour the brain and not the arm, the
thinker and not the soldier, books and not
kings were to rule the world; weapons
forged in the mind keen-edged and brighter
than the sunbeam were to supplant the
sword and the battle ax.”
                           E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
OF THE UNITED STATES.

THE COMING MEETING IN BOSTON.
	THE Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women will be held
this year in Boston the 2, 3, and 4 of Dec.,
in the hall of the Y. M. C. A.
	The meetings of the National Council, as
such, occur triennially in Washington.
The last in 1895, covered a period of two
weeks including three sessions a day. At
these triennials each national society com-
posing the Council finds opportunity to
present its work before representatives of
all the other societies, thus coming in touch
with much larger audiences than it could
otherwise reach. The wide range of topics
and the ability with which they are pre-
sented give a significance and value to these
conferences which should be very helpful in
practical lines of work.
	The Executive Board is composed of the
President and one representative from each
organization in the Council. The annual
meeting of such a Board means more than
simply the transaction of its own business.
This coming session in Boston, while pri-
marily the annual meeting of the Board,
will include three public gatherings of
great interest. At these meetings promi-
nent women from all over the country will
be present, and the occasion will be a
notable one.
	Of the three meetings of the Council this


[Column 
year one will be given to the consideration 
of the work of the organizations composing
the Council; another will be devoted to the
work of the standing Committees. Repre-
sentative workers from all o ganizations
will thus be heard from in regard to the
lines of work unitedly attempted by the
Council. The third or final session will be
given to the consideration of the general
subjects which are under the charge of
heads of departments. Among these sub-
jects will be Religion, Philanthropy, Educa-
tion, Moral Reform, Social Economics and
others
	All members of organizations whether
associated with the Council or not, and all
other persons interested are cordially invited
to be present.
SOME OP THE PEOPLE TO BE PRESENT.
	The Countess of Aberdeen cannot return
from British Columbia in time for the forth-
coming Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women which will be
held in the Y. M. C. A. hall, Boston, Dec.
2, 3, 4. But the International Council will
be ably represented by Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, First Vice-President at large and
former President of the National Council of
the United States. The Woman's Council
of Canada will be represented by its Corres-
ponding Secretary, Mrs. Willoughby
Cummings, and also by Mrs. Archibald,
President of the Halifax Local Council.
	Miss Frances E. Willard, the first Presi-
dent of the National Council is expected to 
add the exceeding interest of her presence
and her words to this occasion.
	Among other well known women whose
faces and voices will be welcomed, will be
the Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, the Vice-
President of the Council, and so widely
known as an able and scholarly orator.
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, former
Corresponding Secretary of the Council,
whose name is a synonym for honest, solid,
practical work, will represent her own
special department in the present Council,
that which relates directly to the welfare of
the Home.
	Mrs. J. Ellen Foster is also expected to
be present at these sessions, and her speak-
ing everywhere is characterized by earnest-
ness that captures the attention and by
logic that convinces the mind.
	The National Woman's Republican
Association of which Mrs. Foster is
President, will also be represented by its
able and charming Secretary, Mrs. Emily
Chace.
	The Woman's Relief Corps will be repre-
sented by its National President, Mrs.
Agnes Hitt, and by Miss Kate Brownlee
Sherwood, Chairman of the Committee on
Patriotic Instruction, who will speak on the
subject of Higher Citizenship.
	Many other women of prominence will
attend these meetings and present topics of
interest and value.
PAST MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
	The National Council of Women will
hold its annual Executive Board meeting
the 2, 3, and 4, of December in the Y. M.
C. A. Hall in Boston.
	Meetings of the National Council always
mean something of more than ordinary
interest. The coming annual session will
include one or more noteworthy meetings.
	Among previous meetings and con-
ferences under the auspices of the Council,
one naturally adverts to the World's Con-

[Column 2]
gress of Representative Women in Chicago
at the time of the Columbian Exposition.
This gathering of prominent women from 
many different countries served as a grand
introduction to the series of World's Con-
gresses. Its sessions lasted seven days and
its program contained the names of more
than three hundred speakers the majority of
whom were women of national reputation
in their special fields of work. This assem-
blage of women including members from
the National Council of England, France,
Germany, Italy and other countries, was
brought together by invitation of the
National Council of the United States.
	At the first triennial meeting of the
Council in Washington in 1891, seven
organizations composed it. The session at
this time was of a week's duration, thirty-
eight associations reported through frater-
nal delegates, and the International Coun-
cil was represented by its American officers.
	During the exposition in Atlanta in 1895,
the Council held a conference which lasted
six days as part of the Congress of Women.
	Among the subjects brought before these
meetings were the Red Cross movement,
practical philanthropy, Florence Crittenden
mission, the education of the future, wo-
man's position in the industrial world, wo-
man's work as minister and missionary,
woman's place in the government, social
economics and many others of equal interest
and importance.
	The notable meeting in New York City
of a year ago—the Pioneer Reunion held on
the date of Elizabeth Cady Stanton's eigh-
tieth birthday—was likewise under the
auspices of the National Council. This
unique gathering brought together for the
recognition of the younger generation the
large number of the white-haired pioneers
in women's work along the lines; education-
al, philanthropic, reformatory, and many
others. The largest opera house in New
York was filled with the guests. Greetings
came from distinguished people all over the
world. A volume including the account
and full significance of the gathering would
prove most interesting reading to a new
generation.
THE COUNCIL IDEA. WHAT IS IT?
	What does the National Council of Wo-
men mean? What does it stand for? What
is its underlying idea?
	This idea is first, that a Council is not
composed of individuals, but of societies;
second, that a Council does not seek to com-
bine people of one mind, but it seeks to
unite societies with different aims, objects
and methods. Thus the National Council
is approximately, and will become more and
more a republic of ideas.
	The Council grew out of a birthday cele-
bration. This was the fortieth anniversary
of “the first organized demand for equal
educational, professional and political rights
for women.” The central idea was that of
freedom for the body, mind and soul of wo-
men. Included within this were all the
other ideas represented by the fifty-one
national societies which this first gathering
brought together.
	The Council idea is to bring together all
 the best thought and hope for the world.
For its education, its philanthropy, its tem-
perance, its industries, its professions, its
legal conditions, its political conditions, its
moral education. Finally, the Council
would organize and unify all these as the
truest method for strengthening and de-
veloping each one.

[Column 3]
	The Council idea is to give “greater
unity of thought and sympathy of purpose”
to woman's work, and has been characterized
as the “climax in the organization of the mor-
al forces of society by women.” Again it
stands for the broadest mutual respect and 
sympathy, and for the peace which “makes
for righteouness.”
	The Council was organized by women
having the sincere belief that the best good
of their homes and of the nation would be
advanced by their own greater unity of
thought, sympathy and purpose, and that
an organized movement of women would
best conserve the highest good of the fam-
ily and state.
ADVANTAGES TO ORGANIZATIONS.
	The organizations which have banded
themselves together to form the National
Council of Women recognize that by means
of the Council Conference they secure for
their special lines of work, a larger hearing
than they can ever command for their
separate meetings.
	Certain special lines of work have been
prosecuted through standing Committees of
the Council, such as—equal pay for equal
work; divorce reform; improved dress;
patriotic instruction; and these can
be infinitely better furthered by such an
aggregation of organizations than by separ-
ate associations of women, each organized
for a special object.
	The existence of a National Council of
Women in any country must also by its
successful prosecution of various lines of
work militate against the multiplication of
the organizations which would otherwise
spring up to cope with these problems.
	No one doubts that the individual wo-
man is broadened and her life enriched by
becoming a member of an organization for
personal culture or altruistic effort. It is
equally true that members of each organiza-
tion of the National Council “find inspira-
tion, breadth and release from limitation,”
through the respect they learn to feel for
the work of women from whose opinions
they may differ radically, yet for the
nobility of whose efforts for the uplifting
of humanity they feel a deep sympathy.
	The advantage that the Council gives
its constituents are seen by a glance at the
following summary of its object.
	To make better known to the general
public the magnitude and variety of wo-
man's work for humanity.
	To avoid the multiplication of organiza-
tions each with some one special object.
	To bring together women of all lines of
work.
	To give the united influence of all these
women to such general kinds of work as
can be heartily agreed upon by all.
	The present occasion though only one of
the regular annual meetings of the Execu-
tive Board, will be attended by many not-
able women from all over the country, and
its public meetings will be of great interest.
	Public meetings will be held Thursday
and Friday mornings, December the 3rd
and 4th, and Friday evening December 4th.
One and one third rates will be given on all
railroads, if the attendance numbers one
hundred. Procure certificates at place
where ticket is bought. Hotels will give
reduced rates.
	MISS ELIZABETH UPHAM YATES, of
Maine, will give her lecture on “China
and the Chinese,” with costume in Town
Hall, Belmont, Mass.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THAT LITTLE BROOK.

THAT little brook beside my childhood's home,
Rippling and warbling as it danced along,
What ferns and mosses grew around its brink;
The picture haunts me whereso'er I roam,
Methinks I listen to its sweet, old song,
And once again its cooling waters drink.

The winding brook flow'd through a hemlock
grove,
As fair as "Eden's bowers," to me it seem'd,
Sweet wild-wood flowers in every shady nook;
Grew 'neath those trees; there I was wont to rove,
Or on the moss-grown rocks idly I dream'd,
And listen'd to the babbling of the brook.

The birds sang sweeter in those happy days,
Their music thrilled my soul with melody,
As pensively I wander'd by the brook,
Amid the graces of those woodland ways,
And ponder'd o'er my future destiny,
Till life itself seemed one delightful book.
E. B. W.


THANKSGIVING THOUGHTS.

How helpless and weak man comes to this world,
As frail as the wing of a bird yet unfurled !
Dependent on Him who measures our souls.
And-all of our life and being controls.
He gives us our mind and power of thought—
Opens the vaults where its treasures are sought.
He touches the spring its wealth comes to view,
Enlightening those who this pathway pursue
E’er seeking, for truth and infinite light—
His presence divine—to lead us aright.
Why should humanity puny and weak,
Try to aggrandize self, and vain honors seek?
The pomp of this world, its glory and pride,
Elude our firm grasp, and flit from our side.
But Truth will endure while time takes its flight
It lives still undimmed by tarnish or blight.
Truth the holiest boon our Father hath given—
Lifting the veil between earth and Heaven.
This beautiful world, has music and flowers,
Far-reaching landscapes, and bright sunny hours
Seasons of snow—bringing wealth to our soil-
Increasing our stores, and decreasing our toil.
Our warm cosy homes, our friends,good and true,
Are earth’s dearest treasures for me and for you
Then holy thanksgiving and praise let us give,
To Him, whose great mercy, permits us to live.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Nov. 26, 1896.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

			FLORENCE Italy,
					Dec. 5, l895.
	Breakfast at eight, as we wish to see as
much of this delightful Tuscan City as pos-
sible, we take early drives in the immediate
vicinity, they are of extreme beauty and we
cannot spare the time when the Galleries
are to be visited. We drive over the Viale
dei Colli, the hilly road leading to the height
of San Miniato from Piazzale Michael
Angelo, where stands his famous statue of
David, we had glorious views of the city
and the valley of the Arno, our manager
pointing out all places of interest and giv-
ing us bits of history. We took a different
route back and paused near the Church San
Miniato, Mr. Mc V. pointed out the Church
S. Niccolo before which the citizens assem-
bled in 1529 to swear to defend Florence.
It was in the belfry of this church that
Michael Angelo concealed himself after the
city, was betrayed to the imperialists, till
Clement VII. had promised to pardon him
the fortification he had constructed. We
drove past a villa of the Medici, now a

[Column 2]
girls' school and the Tarre del Gallo, used
by Galileo as an observatory, and the Villa
where he lived and was visited by Milton
in 1638. We did not go on to La Certosa,
a large Carthusian Monastery built in the
14th century; the prospect is beautiful of
the Vol d’ Emo, they have some fine monu-
ments by Donatello in a chapel dedicated
to the Acciajuolo family. The Monks
make Chartreuse wine; we drank of it.
Hare says Certosa of the Val d’ Emo has a
beautiful position with lovely views and the
convent crowning a cypress-covered hill is
very picturesque. The Certosa was found-
ed in 1341 by Nicolo Acciajuoli, Grand
Seneschal to Queen Joanna of Naples, and
its fortifications were especially granted by
the Republic. The principal church is
decorated with frescoes, marbles and pietra-
dura. There is a beautiful Gothic Church
of 1300; the architecture is attributed to
Orcagna; it contains good Florentine stain-
ed glass; a picture of St. Francis receiv-
ing the Stigmata, by Cigoli; a crucifixion
by Giotto, and a picture by Fra. Angelico.
In another chapel is a Madonna and Child
with Saints, by Perugino, of which I have
a photograph.
	We drove through the via Maggio,
saw the tablet on the wall of Caso Guidi
inscribed to the memory of the English
poetess who lived there so many years and
died there in 1861, Elizabeth Barrett
Browning. On the right of this turning to-
wards the river, at the corner of the via
Marsigli, is the house where. Bernardo
Buoutalenti lived and whither Tasso rode
from Ferrara, to thank him for having con-
tributed to the success of his “Aminta,”
by the scenery he had painted for it. Mr.
Mc V. gave us the story; although we had
read of it, it seemed new and interesting.
	We now drove to the Church Santa
Croce, the Westminister Abbey of Italy
here are buried Galileo and Michael Angelo.
In 1514 Santa Croce became celebrated for
a religious revival under Fra Francisco de
Montepulciano. Over the interior of the
West door is a statue of St. Louis of Tou-
louse by Donatello, not a good work but
the Sculptor said it was good enough for
a man who had been so foolish as to ex-
change a Kingdom for a Monastery. The
rose window is from a design of Lorengo
Ghiberti; below it is a tablet with the
monogram of our Savior.
	The Church is almost surrounded with
monuments of the great men of Italy. Rus-
kin says of some of them, “See those huge
tombs on your right hand and left with
their alternate gable and round tops, and
the paltriest of all possible sculpture, trying
to be grand by bigness, and pathetic by ex-
pense.”
	These immense churches are full of
chapels the Cappella Medici contains the
best church art. There is a magnificent
altar piece by Giotto, “The Coronation of
the Virgin, and in the choir the walls have
frescoes by Agnolo Gaddi; on the left “The
History of the True Cross.” Outside the
church on the South is an arcade ornament-
ed in frescoes by pupils of Taddeo Gaddi it
looks down upon a cloister which ends in
the Chapel of the Pazzi, one of the best
works of Brunelleschi. The dome outside
and the friezes within are ornamented, with
Della Robbia work. In the cupola are the
Twelve Apostles and the Four Evangelists.
The Chapel was used as a chapter-house
and in it four thousand Monks listened to
the regulations issued by Pius V. for the
establishment of the inquisition in Florence.

[Column 3]
	Next to the Church St. Lorenzo ‘which
contains the magnificent Mosaleum of the
Medici’s. The church was due to the mu-
nificence of the Christian Matron Guiliana,
who vowed if she should give birth to a
son to erect a church in honor of Saint
Lorenzo. “Lergusson” says “No church
can be freer from bad taste than this one;
there is no false construction nor anything
to offend. Where it fails is in the want of
sufficient solidity and mass in the supporting
pillars and the pier-arches with reference to
the load they have to bear.” The same
thought was in my mind ere Mr. Mc V.
told us of Lergusson. In front of the high
altar a porphyry slab covers the remains of
Cosimo Medici, in the “New Sacristy,”
are the tombs of the Medici adorned with
M. Angelo’s “Day and Night,” “Morning
and Evening.” Ruskin says “Four in-
effable types not of darkness nor of day—not
of morning nor evening; but of the depart-
ure and the resurrection; the twilight and
the dawn of the souls of men.”
	Strozzi wrote of the figure of night:
	“Carved by an angel in this marble white,
	Sweetly reposing, lo, the Goddess Night.
	Calmly she sleeps, and so must living be;
	Awake her gently; she will speak to thee.”
To which Michael Angelo replied:
“Grateful is sleep, whilst wrong and shame sur-
	vive, 
More grateful still is senseless stone to live,
Gladly both sight and hearing I forgo;
Oh, then, awake me not. Hush, whisper low!”
				[Translated by Wright]
	I at first glance thought them ugly; as I
recall them now, think them beautiful;
his works grow upon you; his genius
has never been contested; all place him in
the first rank as painter, sculptor and archi-
tect. ’Tis said beauties and excellences of
all kinds are to be found in his works; he
sought to obtain the sublime in Art.
							KIM.


CHEYENNE, Wyo. Nov. 6.- For the first
time in history a woman will vote as a
member of the electoral college for a Presi-
dent of the United States. This woman is
Mrs. Sarah Malloy of this city. She was
requested to run on the Republican ticket
and accepted. The honor was thrust upon
her. Mrs. Malloy is a native of Ohio. She
was born in College Centre, near Columbus.
Her father was a soldier in the civil war,
and was retired because of incapacity due to
wounds received on the field of battle.
Mrs. Malloy has lived in Wyoming since
1870. She is in full sympathy with the
woman suffrage, which has been in vogue
in Wyoming ever since she settled in it.
She has served as a delegate to Republican
county conventions, and has always done
her duty. She never misses voting on
election day. While Mrs. Malloy takes
extreme interest in politics, she is a good
housewife and a kind mother. She has four
children, the eldest a civil engineer 18 years
old. Mr. Malloy is superintendent of the
Union Pacific Railroad from Cheyenne to
Ogden, a stretch of 500 miles. Many of his
Democratic friends in the service of the
road voted for the wife of their superior
officer. Mrs. Malloy is being congratulat-
ed for the unique distinction thrust upon
her. She will cast her electoral vote for
Major McKinley.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
 econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1896.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE sisters will we trust read the arti-
cles containing information of the National
Council of Women, as it is the organiza-
tion to which the Relief Society and Y. L.
M. A. are connected, and in which Zina D.
H. Young and Elmina S. Taylor are Vice-
Presidents by virtue of their office as Presi-
dents of these two great Associations, and
they are consulted in all matters pertain-
ing to the National Society as a whole. It
is well for all our Relief Society and also
the Young Ladies’ to make themselves
familiar with the workings of the Council
as it is a powerful organized body of wo-
men of great attainments and influence, and
cannot fail to accomplish much in the ad-
vancement of the world and the better-
ment of society.
	TWO celebrated women visited Utah dur-
ing the election time with a view of writ-
ing up the woman’s side of the election.
Mrs. Black well known as (Annie Laurie)
in San Francisco and New York papers;
and Virginia V. Douge, who was sent here
by the National Republican Committee.
We hope we shall see the published account
given by them of the recent election, as we
think we know something of the subject
from the inside view. Both these ladies
are accomplished and talented women, and
will doubtless handle the subject in a mas-
terly way. Miss Douge has lived much in
Spanish American countries, and has writ-
ten considerably upon subjects relating to
these countries, has also published some
books; does artistic work of various kinds;
is somewhat familiar with the silk industry
in Utah, having been connected with the
Committee of Judges at the World’s Fair.
Miss Douge lectured in Logan before the
students of the Agricultural College of
Logan by invitation, during her stay in
Utah of only a few days.
	THE notice of the demise of Sister Rachel
Tanner published was taken from the
Deseret Evening News, and though com-
plete in itself and historical also, yet we
wish to add a word or two in honor of this
veteran saint who has passed away. Our
readers will remember we published the
sixtieth wedding anniversary party held
at her daughter’s, Sister E. S. Richards
in this city last June 30th. Sister Tanner
was looking very frail at that time, yet her
death being so near was not then thought
of. Sister Tanner had at the time of her


demise more than one hundred descendants
and only a few days before she passed away
she remarked that of all the numerous
children and grand-children she had never
had an unkind word. This is a remarka-
ble testimony and shows beyond a doubt in
what high esteem she was held by her
family. This record of itself is an en-
comuim upon her life any mother in Israel
might be proud of, in a day when there is
so much indifference to superiors and lack
of reverence for the aged.


[Column 1]
A TENDER TRIBUTE.

HELEN MAR KIMBALL WHITNEY.
	So—by small slow footsteps,
		By the daily cross,
	By the heart’s unspoken yearnings,
		By its grief and loss;
	So—He brings them home to rest
	With the victors, crowned and blest.
	So—by scattered ruins, 
		By sweet links unbound,
	By fair blossoms all unheeded, 
		Trampled on the ground;
	So—He brings them home to Him,
	Where no cloud their joy can dim.
	Perhaps no woman in Israel now living
knew Sister Helen better than the writer,
her past history, her inner life. I knew her
in her youthful pride and brilliancy when
it was often said of her, “She was the
handsomest girl in Nauvoo.” She was
beautiful with the dignity of a queen. I
saw her in the Temple when she plighted
her marriage vows to Horace K. Whitney
(eldest son of Bishop Newel K. Whitney,)
on that day she seemed to have attained the
realization of her ambitious hopes and
dreams! A few days after we left Nauvoo,
crossed the Misissippi river on the ice and
began that wearisome journey over the un-
broken prairies of Iowa; not a very propi-
tious wedding trip. But I am not going to
give you her history, only a few remarks
on her eventful life. She had been almost
idolized by her father, as nearly so as such
a man as the Apostle Heber C. Kimball
could do consistently. When the pioneers
were called to search out a resting place
for the Saints, Helen’s husband and father
were both among the men chosen.
	Those were the days of sickness, sorrow,
privation, hardship and death, such as tried
men’s souls and women’s likewise. Helen’s
first babe a beautiful little girl was born
and died.
	The pioneers returned in safety and there
was great rejoicing when we heard of the
beautiful vale in the West in the fastnesses
of the Rocky mountains.
	The following spring we started across
the plains, when about half way hither a
fine son was born to Helen, and there was
joy over the advent of this little one even
though the way was toilsome and travel
could not be delayed; five days afterwards
he was laid in a lonely grave by the way-
side. It would be impossible to tell the
grief and anguish of the young mother at
this second bereavement. All that faith and
works combined could do was done by lov-
ing relatives and friends. Reason tottered
and only the almost superhuman faith of
her father prevailed.
“And if sometimes commingled with life’s wine
	We find the wormwood, and rebel and shrink,
Be sure a wiser hand than yours or mine
	Pours out this potion for our lips to drink.”

[Column 2]
And if through patient toil we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest 
Where we shall clearly know and understand,
	I think that we shall say, “God knew the
		best.”
	The life of Sister H. M. Whitney
abounds with thriling events, and volumes
might be written of her history, which is in
fact a history of the Church, so closely has
she been connected with its founders and
leading men and women. Intimately
associated with Joseph Smith when a child
and from that time until his martyrdom,
and also with Brigham Young who lived in
Heber C. Kimball’s family after the death
of his first wife in the State of New York,
and journeyed with Heber’s family to Kirt-
land, taking with him his two little mother-
less girls Elizabeth, and Vilate, who were
like sisters to Helen; and Sister Kimball
was indeed like a mother. Looking back
over these events brings to mind many
things of which Helen often talked. The
Gospel was her all, she cared for little else and
being of a particularly spiritual nature she
loved to bear testimony of things she knew
so well.
	After our arrival in the valley early in
Oct. 1848, Horace settled on the lot facing
City Creek where the family lived until
recently. It was there Helen’s children
were born that are living now,and there too
several of them died. One very beautiful
daughter, Vilate, named for Vilate Kimball
others when babes, and one beautiful little
girl the youngest, Phebe. Through all the
trying scenes Helen has been called to pass
she maintained perfect integrity to the truth
of the Gospel and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith; she accepted practically
every principle of the Gospel and was will-
ing to make sacrifices for the establishment
of the same.
	Naturally Helen had literary and refined
tastes but in writing she inclined to the
heroic and prophetic, inheriting from her
illustrious father the gift of prophecy. Her
delicate health was a great hindrance to
her in writing; many times during the
last few years she would have published
her thoughts and views on the burning
questions of the day if she had had the
physical strength; but she has gone now
where she can doubtless give expression to
her feelings without thinking and without
bodily pain. And so one by one the com-
panions of our youth, the friends we have
known in adversity as well as in prosperity
leave us, but by and by we shall all meet
over there if we are so fortunate as to
“Fight the good fight and hold out to. the
end.”
	The early reminiscences that Helen wrote
for the EXPONENT a few years back con-
tained much Church history and were well
worth preserving; her two books “Plural
Marriage as taught by Joseph the Prophet”
and “Why we Practice Plural Marriage,”
are for sale at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor, and are (so far as the writer
knows) the only books of the kind publish-
ed by a Mormon woman. They have gone
to many countries, and these alone should
make Helen Whitney famous.
	As a mother Sister Whitney was exem-
plary, she taught her children faith and the
efficacy of prayer, and she set them a living
example worthy of imitation. As a wife
she was loving, devoted, loyal, true and
constant. Duty was always first whether


[Column 1]
as wife or mother; her devotion to her par-
ents was as exceptional as their love for
her, for certainly with all Helen’s trials and
sacrifices she was greatly blessed in being
favored with the love of parents, husband,
children and friends, and in being shielded
by them from every care and perplexity pos-
sible.
	In friendship no truer woman ever lived
than Helen; she was constancy itself; and
possessed that sweet charity for the weak,
the erring and unfortunate that partakes of
the sublime. All in all she was a grand
and magnificent woman. Of this dear and
departed one the writer can truthfully say,
                     “Thou art the friend
To whom the shadows of long years extend.”
	Helen Mar Kimball was born in Mendon,
Monroe County, New York, August 22,
1828, and was married to Horace K. Whit-
ney in Nauvoo, Illinois, February 3, 1846;
died in Salt Lake City, November 15, 1896,
aged 68 years, 2 months and 26 days. 
	She was the mother of eleven children,
only five of whom survive her, six others
having passed away. What a happy
reunion there must be, and what rejoicing
there when the meeting takes place, far
exceeding in intensity the sorrow of those
left behind.
	Sister Whitney’s funeral services were
held in the 18th Ward chapel where her
son Orson F. Whitney has been Bishop for
a number of years, and where his mother
always attended service when she was able
and has borne many testimonies of the
Gospel. The pure white casket contain-
ing her mortal body was borne by her brothers
and sons in law from the hearse to the chapel;
over the casket was a coverlet of flowers beau-
tiful and pure, emblems of her own sweet
life. Other floral gifts from the children,
relatives and friends were numerous and
very lovely; indeed the fragrance filled the
house.
	The services were conducted by the
Bishop’s Counselor, Robert Patrick, and the
speakers were, after Patriarch Jos. C.
Kingsbury an old and esteemed friend of
the family, Apostles H. J. Grant and John
Henry Smith, President Angus M. Cannon
and President Jos. F. Smith, each one
testifying of her virtue, her integrity and
her fidelity to the Gospel. The music was
furnished by H. G. Whitney and the
Eighteenth ward choir and was very sweet.
Opened with singing “I need Thee every
hour;” prayer by Elder John Nicholson;
singing “Unveil thy bosom faithful
tomb;” at an interval during the services
Miss Bessie Edmonds sang exquisitely the
beautiful solo “The Bright Beyond,” by
special request of the deceased. The entire
service was a remarkably impressive one,
many divine truths concerning life and the
resurrection were dwelt upon and clearly
substantiated by the written words as con-
tained in the Bible and the Book of Mor-
mon. The spirit of the Lord in rich
abundance seemed to rest upon all who
addressed the congregation. Closing prayer
was by Elder C. W. Penrose. Sister Whit-
ney was buried beside her husband, near
other members of the family.
	The music at the grave was particularly
sweet “Rest on the hillside rest,” sung by
a quartette by special request; and so
Helen has gone to rest, that rest on the
other shore for which she longed when
racked with intense pain from which she felt
no earthly power could give relief.
	The grave was dedicated by Counselor

[Column 2]
Wm. Barton of the 18th ward Bishopric,
and when all was finished the coverlet of
sweet flowers was thrown over the mound,
and tearfully the long procession of mourn-
ers turned homewards. May the Lord
comfort them all and especially the child-
ren and grandchildren, and give them
peace, strength and courage to abide in the
faith, and fight the good fight as valiantly
as their sainted mother has done. 
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”
—Psalm CXXVII. v. 2.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A KENSINGTON TEA.

	MRS. JAMES SHARP gave a delightful
Kensington party on Friday, November 20,
at the handsome family residence on South
Temple. The parlors, library and dining-
room were beautifully decorated with
flowers “in season and out of season;” vio-
lets from the Pacific Coast, carnations, chry-
santhemums of various shades, scarlet geran-
iums, while the faint oder of heliotrope
mingled with the sweet fragrance of the
larger blossoms. The tables were beauti-
ful in snow white damask with fine hand-
painted china, and the repast was dainty
enough for the most fastidious taste, and
was gracefully served by members of the
household which made it all the more
tempting to the guests if that were possible.
The part of the enjoyment most highly in-
teresting was the music given by Miss
Celie Sharp whose exquisite rendering of
difficult music is well-known and on this
occasion was highly appreciated by lovers
of the divine art. Miss Sharp gave im-
promptu Chopin 2nd and 12th Rhapsodies,
Lizt, Tannhauser and others. Conversa-
tion was general and of course interesting
when thirty women or more assembled
principally to enjoy a social afternoon. It
was scarcely an old fashioned tea party,
because there were too many modern lux-
uries and more new fashioned costumes.
	The guests present were Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emma
Woodruff, Sarah Jane Cannon, Charlotte
F. Richards, Susan H. Smith, Susanna
Spencer, Sophia Sharp, Mary A. Freeze,
Chloe Eldridge, Martha T. Cannon, Maggie
Sharp, Sarah Dinwoodey, Mary Schettler,
Carlie Y. Cannon, Maria Y. Dougall,
Phebe Y. Beatie, Camilla Cobb, Martha B.
Winder and Mrs. T. G. Webber, Mrs. S.
P. Teasdel, Mrs. Willard Young, Mrs.
Lafayette Holbrook, Mrs. John Sharp, Mrs.
H. M. Wells, Mrs. Legrande Young, Mrs.
O.W. Beebee, Mrs. James Saville, Mrs.
Ben Eldridge, Mrs. James Hay, and the
writer, Mr. and Mrs. Sharp are to be con-
gratulated on the fine talent as well as the
excellent taste displayed in the family in
music and art, not only have they accom-
plished daughters in music etc., but two
sons who have natural gifts in drawing and
sculpture.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CON-
FERENCE.

	GENERAL meeting at the Assembly Hall
Oct. 3, 1896, at 7.30 p. m., Sister Zina D.
H. Young presiding. On the stand were
Sisters Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, E. B. Wells, Dr. R. B. Pratt, Mary
Pitchforth, Ann C. Woodbury, Temperance
Hinckley and Annie T. Hyde. Meeting
opened with singing “O, my Father,”

[Column 2]
prayer by Sister Ann C. Woodbury, sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.” The first speaker was Sister
Mary Pitchforth, President of the Relief
Society of Juab Stake; she expressed her-
self as feeling we had much to be thank
ful for as a society, and felt that in their
Stake they had been greatly blessed tem-
porally and spiritually; a few years ago they
had one small meeting house but the land
on which it was built was very valuable
and they had sold it for $3000 and after-
wards built two new respectable houses,
one for each ward in Nephi with every con-
venience for meeting and storing things
which they had on hand, and the rooms
were provided with suitable furniture,
chairs, rockers etc., they also have a tene-
ment house of two nice adobe rooms; these
things are done by faith and works com-
bined. The Relief Society in all places
should have something of its own; spoke
of the good time the sisters had in 1847,
when Sister Eliza R. Snow would meet
with them from house to house in the Old
Fort.
	Sister Annie J. Wixom, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, repre-
sented the work there in place of the presi-
dent who was not well enough to attend.
She stated that when the Stake Tabernacle
in Brigham City was burned, each ward
society agreed to give ten dollars and save
their Sunday eggs as a donation; however
the poor with them had always been the
first consideration, the sisters in that county
were interested in the silk industry, they
are anxious to make the business more re-
munerative than it is. “Like others in our
place we are preparing for the great privi-
lege of voting. I have never heard instruc-
tion given to men about preparing to vote.”
Sister Wixom made other excellent re-
marks on woman’s work and duties.
	Sister Lydia Rich, President of the R.
S. of Morgan Stake testified to the union in
their Stake; they visited all around twice a 
year, she felt thankful that the Relief Soci-
ety had been such a blessing to her and to
all, thought all were improving and doing
a good work looking after the poor and the
aged and gathering up wheat; she often
wondered why the aged seemed so near to
her, felt blest in all her labors, asked the
Lord to care for us all.
	Sister L. M. Hart, Counselor R. S. of
Bear Lake Stake was proud to be associated
with the noble work of the Relief Society,
they had twenty-three branches to visit and
go by teams, the sisters attend meetings
regularly; thought we should all inform
ourselves upon the principles of the Gospel
and understand them, that they might give
a reason for the hope and faith within us.
	Sister Minerva Mc’Carroll from R. S.
San Juan Stake, Colorado, spoke briefly of
the work of the Society there, they had six
branches all in good working order and
united perfectly.
	Sister Priscilla Worthington of Cassia
Stake, represented the R. S. in the absence
of Sister Louisa Haight, the President, they
had six hundred miles to travel by team to
visit the branches. Sister Worthington
made an excellent financial report, very
gratifying, and also spoke well of the spir-
itual labors of the sisters.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde Counselor in the
R. S. Salt Lake Stake, represented the
work in the absence of President Horne,
who was very sick at the time, she spoke 
feelingly of the great work Sister Horne


[Column 1]
had accomplished in the Society, manifest-
ed the utmost interest in the industries es-
tablished in our midst, was pleased to hear
Sister Kimball speak of a building, intended
to do all in her power to promote the move-
ment.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, President R. S.
Weber Stake had been much edified in
hearing the reports, was pleased to hear
Sister Pitchforth’s remarks about the meet-
ing houses and tenements, felt if we could
only get some donation from each Stake of
Zion we could build a place of our own
thought we should not feel poor, we have
not had cyclones, and the high winds we
had were only a taste of what the world is
having; we have plenty of opportunities to
do good, we need to ask our Father in
heaven what our duty is from time to time;
the Lord blesses us in this work, and how
much better can we do, is for each of us to
answer; we don’t know any of us how
soon we may need help ourselves, thought
we should be very charitable and tender to
the sick and the sorrowing. The Bishops
sent for her and her Counselors when they
needed their assistance, and she always
tried to respond and do all she could
whether in organizing, or in administering
to the sick, or caring for the dead. She
felt she would like to get a little Temple
work done, but the living also must be
cared for, did not know whether she had
done the best she could but was trying to,
thought we often had impressions for our
good.
	Sister B. W. Smith felt happy and had
enjoyed the day, we should not be ashamed
of this work but take delight in it, she
liked to see her sisters old and young, love
was necessary to all, and for the dead, we
love them more as we labor for them; the
way we can gain the affections of our friends
and our children is by an increase of love; 
giving among the poor and receiving their
blessings, brings a blessing to us, they have
the greatest promises and we should re-
member them and in that we get the same
blessing; she loved to associate with good
and faithful people, and had enjoyed great
advantages in that respect; was very well
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and his
father and mother and brothers and sisters,
she saw Brother Joseph the first day the
ordinance was performed for the dead, saw
him go down into the water the first time.
She had ministered much in Temples and
thought that was why she felt so much
interest in the work for the dead; she
realized also the blessings of patriarchs,
she had been much impressed by the bless-
ing of Patriarch Father Smith, and advised
the young people to get their patriarchal
blessings. Sister Smith also made some
remarks about the Kindergarten the teach-
ing given the little ones, especially upon
honesty, truth and virtue.
	Sister Zina referred to her visit to Poca-
tello and commended the labors of the
President there, Sister Regina Pond, and
the labors of the sisters they were so
united; they have a fine hall owned by
the sisters with every convenience for meet-
ing and taking care of articles used in their
work; also furnishing and stove and dishes
for picnics or entertainments all in order; 
she was there on the first of August, and it
was the 60th anniversary of her baptism in
the State of New York. Sister Zina spoke
earnestly of the silk industry and of the
EXPONENT, said “ You may call them my
hobbies if you will, ” said too if we would

[Column 2]
live within our means and would study
economy we would be blest and would not
need to complain, she had seen times when
she had got on her knees to ask the Lord
for something to eat, we did not know
much about hard times now. Sister Zina
then spoke a few words very impressively
in tongues; the interpretation was given by
Sister Elizabeth Marriott of Weber Stake.
Sister Jane Holt, Counselor in the R. S.
of Davis Stake made a brief report in the
absence of the President, Sister Susan Grant
who was absent in the North, having been
called to her daughter Sister Vilate Muir
who was sick, and had since been called
away behind the vail, it was a very sad
death, she had left a number of little child-
ren. Sister Holt spoke highly of Sister
Grant’s faithful labors and of the union
among the sisters in their labors of love,
also made special mention of the saving of
of wheat. Congregation sang “The Spirit
of God; the Conference was adjourned un-
til April, 1897, closing prayer by Sister E.
B. Wells.
				E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MOMTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Meeting held in the
14th ward Assembly hall Oct. 31, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Opened
by singing “Come, come ye Saints;”
prayer by Counselor E. Webb; continued
by singing “O, ye mountains high.”
President M. I. Horne thanked the sisters
for their faith and prayers, felt they had
weight with her Heavenly Father in restor-
ing her to health, gave good counsel to the
sisters to rise and bear their testimonies, for
all would be strengthened thereby. Spoke
at some length on the discernment of
spirits and urged the sisters to be watchful
and prayerful. “Find fault with none but
ourselves; we have no right to judge
another. Attach our faith to no person or
we might be overcome; trust to the Lord
and all will be well with us.”
	Sister Margaret Brown made a few happy
and encouraging remarks concerning the
Gospel and the lives of the Saints.
	Counselor E. Webb referred to Sister
Kimball speaking on the subject of Faith,
and spoke at some length in that respect,
and also of prayer and the work for the
dead, and urged the sisters to attend to this
part of our religion.
	Sister Frances Smith spoke of the work
in the Temple aad how she enjoyed herself
therein, and prayed for Sister Horne and all
faithful sisters.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul spoke of Temple
work and wished she was better so that she
could work still more in that holy house;
also spoke at some length on the subject of
speaking ill of each other.
	Sister Louisa Stevenson spoke also on
Temple work for the dead, also alluded to
being healed by the administration of her
young son.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said as regards
Saints, “By their works ye should know
them.” Urged the sisters to cultivate
Faith and spoke of the revelation in the
Doctrine and Covenants on this subject.
Felt that she could prophesy that Sister
Horne would live for many, many years yet.
Made other encouraging remarks.
	Sister Davis spoke of the faith of her
brother who is on a mission, and how well
he had been received where he was.
	Sister Jane James felt to bear her testi-

[Column 2]
mony and rejoiced that she had beheld the
Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and wished she could go into the
Temple; but she felt to wait in patience on
her Heavenly Father. Prayed to be faith-
ful unto the end and alluded to the time she
embraced the Gospel, and how she rejoiced
even until today in the same.
	Sister Julia Samson spoke of the privileges
of the Saints both in Sunday school and
meetings. Felt thankful for all the bless-
ing she had received at her Heavenly
Father’s hands, and bore her testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Jones bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. Wondered where the
sisters were who used to come to these
meetings. “Surely they have not stepped
aside! I pray for all our sisters in the
name of Jesus.”
	Sister Waterfall spoke of the pleasure it
gave her to be able to come to meeting
again, and told of a vision she had when
she was ill. One whom she saw said “We
are watching you;” also bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Mary Silver encouraged the sisters
to be faithful and true.
	Sister Sarah Goss spoke of the healing of
her little daughter by the faith of herself
and of others, and also of the healing of
her little son and Sister Jones’ mother.
Said she had many blessings by being here
and thanked her Heavenly Father that she
had heard and received the Gospel.
	President M. I. Horne made closing re-
marks; thought she would like us to con-
tinue the subject of Faith next meeting.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Closed by singing “ ’Mid scenes of con-
fusion.” Benediction by L. D. Alder.
	LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
Hall, Saturday, November 14th 1896, Pres.
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “For the
strength of the hills;” prayer by Coun-
selor Elizabeth Webb; singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” The minutes of
the previous meeting were read and approv-
ed. President Horne felt truly thankful
to meet her sisters today, and wished the
sisters to continue speaking on the subject
of Faith for it was Faith that prompted us
to do everything that is good; faith that
brought us the desires of our hearts. “The
humble and the faithful ones are the ones
that will reap the blessings. We have no
time to criticise the actions of the author-
ties.” If they did wrong or were led
astray the Lord would remove them; urged
the sisters to be guarded in their speeches
and prayed God to bless us.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson spoke of her
gratitude in having the privilege of meeting
with the sisters and said it was twelve
weeks since she had enjoyed this treat; re-
ferred to her husband’s illness and said that
through faith and the administration of the
Elders he had recovered. Felt to rejoice in
this. Spoke very earnestly on faith and
prayed we might have a time of rejoicing
here together.
	Sister Waterfall made some excellent re-
marks on Faith, and told how the Lord
had opened up her way before her in a very
remarkable manner. Prayed the Lord to
bless us all. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder though not feeling
well, felt to bear her testimony; urged
the sisters to cultivate the Spirit of God


[Column 1]
and guard against losing it.; felt that fault
finding was the first thing towards it.
Prayed that our faith might increase and
that we might always be in possession of
the Spirit of God.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said it was many years
since she had spoken in this building, and
spoke on faith, bringing up passages of
scripture to explain the meaning and told
of the inspiration she enjoyed one morning
on arising, and which she was compelled
to write. Made some very excellent and
encouraging remarks, and bore a faithful
testimony. Testified that the Spirit of
God was in this room, and prayed the
Lord to bless us all and increase our faith.
	Sister Julia Samson felt she must bear
her testimony. Said her heart was ready
to burst with joy to think we were number-
ed with the Church of the “First Born,”
and felt she could shout. Urged the sisters
to be united and have faith; for we must
cultivate it. Bore a strong testimony.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was pleased
to meet with her sisters, said she had been
deprived of this privilege for some time;
also spoke upon faith. Felt it was faith
that sustained us in our trials; in our
prayers we should always say “Not my
will O, God be done, but Thine.” Her
remarks on faith were beautiful. Prayed
that we might have faith that we could
know there was a God who watched over
us and heard us at all times.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball made some ex-
cellent remarks on faith, and spoke of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and felt that it was
not sustained as it should be. It was a
very excellent little paper and was a wo-
man’s paper and should be sustained by the
women of Utah at least. Urged the sisters
to do better in the future, and refered to the
remarks of Sister Alder on the resurrection,
she also had heard Joseph Smith say that
when the keys of the resurrection were
given it would be so simple that we would
wonder we had not seen it before. Prayed
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Jane James bore a faithful testi-
mony and said she had been terribly afflict-
ed in her head, and she took her consecrated
oil and anointed herself and she was heal-
ed. Felt that that was faith, and praised
the Lord for her blessings.
	Sister Barrow told how she had anointed
her children with oil and blessed them, and
they recovered; also spoke of the gift of
wisdom and discernment; said she had
always been blest with faith. Pra[-]ed
the Lord to help us to overcome evil and
have our faith increased. Testified God
heard and answered prayers when He was
sought in faith. The speaker finished by
speaking in tongues, which was interpreted
by Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul felt there had never
been a greater flow of the Spirit in this
building than now. Told how she had
been blest by going to the Temple. Spoke
on faith, and felt there was a great day at
hand. Prayed we might be able to endure.
	President Horne made closing remarks.
Felt we had had a feast of fat things. Sis-
ter Horne spoke of the EXPONENT; said
there was no paper that had done the good
and allayed the prejudice that that little
paper had done. The price of it was very
low, and in the reach of all. Urged the
sisters to do all they could in this direction,
and speak of it in their Relief Society meet-
ings; also spoke of the Woman’s Store
and the competent help in there now, and

[Column 2]
hoped the sisters would patronize them.
Felt these were temporal things to speak
of, but we had to mix the temporal with
the spiritual. Urged the sisters to induce
and persuade more of the sisters to come to
these meetings; she felt they were becom-
ing better all the time.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing Dox-
ology, benediction by Sister J. C. Howe.
ZINA HYDE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

RACHEL W. S. TANNER.
	SISTER RACHEL WINTER SMITH TANNER died
 at her home in South Cottonwood on Saturday,
Nov. 7th, 1896, aged 78 years and a little over six
months. She was the daughter of William and
Jane Calkin Smith and was born at Bolton War-
ren county, New York, May 1, 1818. When she
was but 13 years of age she embraced the Gospel
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter day Saints. On the 30th of June 1836
she was married to Elder Nathan Tanner who
was then laboring in the ministry and has been a
well know figure in Church history for many
years. She removed with her husband and
parents to Kirtland in the fall of the
same year, where her first child a daughter, was
born. She afterwards went with her husband to
Far West, Missouri, where she shared in the terri-
ble persecutions endured by the Saints such as
burning and pillaging their houses and driving the
Saints therefrom, while her husband was under
guard in the town. Sister Tanner and her sister
were alone at her home about a mile and a half
distant with her only child, an infant daughter,
lying at the point of death. Not knowing what
hour she might be forced to flee, homeless and
friendless, she with her own brave hands dug its
little grave beneath the floor and sat the night
out with her precious babe wrapped in its mantle
prepared to consign its little form to mother earth
should it breathe its last before she was forced to
flee. Through her unbounded love, tender and
affectionate care and fervent faith and prayers,
the babe lived and grew to womanhood; and al-
though she died at the early age of thirty-five had
over forty descendents, the children and grand-
children of Elder James S. Brown of this city.
With her husband Sister Tanner left Far West in
the exodus of the Saints, and moved to a place
called New Liberty in Adams county, Illinois,
where they remained for a couple of years when
they removed to near Montrose just across the
river from Nauvoo. Here they remained till
driven from Nauvoo. From Nauvoo they went
to Winter Quarters where they tarried a year,
and in 1848 they came to Utah and settled at
South Cottonwood. Sister Tanner has been be-
loved by all her acquaintances as well as by her
family for her kind and affectionate disposition as
well as for her devotion to the principles of the
everlasting Gospel. She was fully prepared for
her decease which she met with the same calm-
ness and fortitude that distinguished her through
life. She and her husband, Elder Nathan Tanner
were just previous to her departure among the
oldest if they were not the very oldest living
members of the Church. Her daughter Mrs.
Emily S. Richards is well known in Utah, as is
her son Nathan Tanner of Ogden. She called
her children to her bedside and with a clear
mind and full faith in her glorious future disposed
of her earthly effects, and gave directions as to
her funeral. It was numerously attended in the
South Cottonwood meeting house, where the
services were conducted by Bishop J. S. Rawlins,
who bore a splendid testimony to the worth of the
deceased. Impressive addresses were delivered
by Elders F. D. Richards, F. M. Lyman and F. S.
Richards, and President Joseph F. Smith preached
a funeral discourse of great feeling, power and
light, In which principles pertaining to futurity
were clearly portrayed, and the life and character
of the departed were eulogized in appropriate
language. After benediction by Elder John T.
Caine the remains were followed by a large pro-
cession of carriages to the Salt Lake cemetery.
	Thus this faithful pioneer has gone to join the
goodly company of the blest who have preceded
her, to enjoy the sweet rest of the just and pre-
pare for the glorious resurrection morn, when
those who are in Christ shall come forth to in-
herit the reward that is prepared for them. The
memory of the pure in heart is blessed!
								[COM.


WOMAN’S CO OP STORE.

	Dear Sister:—We desire to call your
attention to the fact that the Woman’s
Co-op on 1st South, four doors West of
Dinwoodey Furniture Store is under new
management and will, we think, interest
our readers if they will call there and see
for themselves the improved aspect of the
store.
	The committee have engaged Sister Fran-
cis and her daughter, Sister Kelly, to take
charge. The former is a woman of great
business tact having held prominent posi- 
tions for over 20 years. Her testimonials
from English mercantile houses are undeni-
able proofs of her ability. Mrs. Kelly was
in the employ of a Court milliner and dress-
maker in London and was her mother’s
first hand during the six years they had
large dressmaking parlors of their own
previous to leaving England.
	We can now undertake dressmaking in
all its branches and can assure perfect fit
and style; ladies capes and jackets a spec-
ality. Our charges are moderate. Dresses
from $5.00 up.
	The Millinery Department is now replete
with all the novelties of the season, both in
trimmed and untrimmed hats, also bonnets
and toques, turbans and children’s hats and
caps.
	We have a special line of ladies and child-
rens Logan knitted stockings, union suits,
vests etc. very cheap.
	We wish to call your attention to the
knitted garments, small size (ladies) $3.50
a pair, and large size $4.00. All who have
worn them are well pleased. Every requi-
site for Temple work always on hand.
	As the share holders of the Woman’s
Co-op are all interested in the welfare of
Utah and home industries and productions,
and desirous of establishing home institu-
tions, therefore we feel that we shall not
appeal in vain in asking for the patronage
of the sisters and the general public to come
and see us and we will do our best to give
you satisfaction
								D.


WELCOME IDAHO!

	TELEGRAM from Hon. Edgar Wilson,
member of Congress from Idaho, to the
Woman's Journal:
		BOISE, IDAHO, November 9, 1896.
	It will be impossible to give the figures
of the vote on the woman suffrage Amend-
ment until the official count has been com-
pleted in the counties. Returns as yet are 
incomplete. Information received indicates
that the Amendment has received two-
thirds of the votes cast on that proposition, 
but less than two-thirds of the entire votes
polled. On account of a peculiar provision
of our state Constitution it is claimed that
an Amendment must receive two-thirds of
all the votes cast in a general election. If 
this construction prevail the Amendment
will be lost. 
						—Ex.


CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	GERMANY claims to have made enameled
ware in the 13th century; be that as it
may, it has attained considerable reputation
in Ceramics. It is difficult to determine


[Column 1]
which is the superior work, Sevres or Dres-
den. In flowers, birds, insects, animals
and figures the Dresden is superior. In
colors, especially rose and blue, the Sevres
excels. The price of Sevres is much
greater than Dresden, however.
	France stands among the first in the
manufacture of porcelain. In 1698 soft
porcelains were made in France, and from
that time on many factories were establish-
ed until 1756 when the famous Sevres
works were established and owned by
Louis V., and he issued a decree forbidding
any person making painted or gilded porce-
lain. Thus for a long time only royalty
could buy Sevres. The most eminent
artists were employed and their marks were
placed upon the ware they decorated. The
pictures of the great Masters, Raphael,
Vandyke and Titian were copied by them.
	The most celebrated service ever made
there was executed in 1778 for the Empress
of Russia, Catharine II., consisting of 740
pieces and costing $200,000.
	The characteristic color of Sevres is deep
dark blue. The cost of the ware depends
upon the work as well as the breakage,
which often required the molding and bak-
ing of several pieces before a perfect one
was finished.
	We come now to cultivated England our
friend and our foe. The ancient pot-
ters of England were numerous, the art
having been used by the various tribes who
possessed and governed the British Isles at
different periods—Celtic, Roman, British.
Saxon and Norman potters abound in
tombs and barrows. The Celtic are chiefly
funeral urns, domestic vessels, cups, bowls
and lamps. It has been supposed they
were made by women. Norman potters
show but small advance and for a long
time after the Norman conquest there was
little improvement. Tiles were made and
many churches were paved with them in
the 13th and 14th century; many of them
are still preserved.
	Drinking cups of lead glazed ware with
two or four handles were made and they
were often large enough to satisfy the de-
sires of three or four persons seated around,
then each one of them could lift it by his
own handle and drink from his side of the
rim. In the 17th century the English pot-
ters began to produce a ware resembling
Delft to take the place of pewter, and the
arms, mottoes and names of the owners were
painted upon them in blue. There is one
in the Kensington Museum marked Anne
Chapman 1660, one with the motto “Be
merry and wise.”—1660.—The only
color used was blue, and one master work-
man who was given to fiddling and rhym-
ing when his men would ask for instruc-
tions would sing,
		“Tip it with blue
		And then it will do.” 
	Pottery was also used as mortuary tablets
in some of the old English church-yards in
the early part of the 18th century.
	Today it is said that the English potters 
not only rival all the continental factories
in every department, but surpass them.
Certainly some of their wares are very
beautiful. When the old ladies of
England were ridiculed for their devotion
to old china, their critics little knew of the
latent force resting in a cabinet containing
a few old teapots and cups and saucers.
These old pieces of china stimulated the
desire to reproduce them, and thus an in-
dustry grew up which gave employment to

[Column 2]
hundreds of workmen. But for the collec
tors of England, we and they, might have
gone on a century longer eating from cheap
Delft or pewter.
	In the first half of the 18th century
Josiah Wedgewood the first student of art
among English potters introduced many
improvements, Many factories were al-
ready established with fine productions,
but always expensive; but the Wedgewood
remained moderately so. Chelsea, Derby,
Worcester made at this time occasional
wares, mostly the best continental pottery,
but these were exceptional. The public
taste was not up to the highest order in
the early part of this century.
	When public museums began to show
the people of England what Ceramic art
had done in ancient and modern times, and
when the old collections in private hands,
for which the women of England had been
ridiculed, were exhibited a new era began
in English Ceramic art. Until today it
claims in this, as in everything else, to sur-
pass the world; which of course is a mat-
ter of question.
	This piece of Wedgewood I have here is a
fac simile of the famous Portland vase as near
as pottery and glass can be made
	The Portland vase is a work of the 2nd, or
3rd century. It is a beautiful cinerary urn of
transparent dark blue glass formed of two
strata and cut in cameo style. It was
found the middle of the 16th century in a
marble sarcophagus near Rome. It was
deposited in the Barberini palace Rome,
hence it is often called the Barberini vase.
It was afterwards purchased by the Duchess
of Portland for $6000. It admits of no
classification as it stands alone of its
kind. The Duchess loaned it to the British
museum where a drunken medical student
smashed it with a stone. The pieces were
so skillfully put together that much of its
beauty still remains. It still remains in
the British museum. The first copies made
by Wedgewood sold for $130 apiece.
	Holland has become noted from the
ware made in Delft which just now seems
to be in such demand that the factories can-
not fill their orders which show what a fad
can accomplish. It also makes a porcelain
which closely resembles the French ware,
but at much less price. A story is told
that a Delft manufacturer had four daughters
about to marry four Ceramic painters of
pottery on the same day. His workmen
made four violins of pottery and at the
marriage feast the four grooms played on
the four violins, while others played upon
various other instruments that were made
of the same material. The violins were
preserved in the family.
	America abounds in Delft ware. Our
Dutch ancestors on Long Island ornamented 
their chimneys with delft tiles on which
scriptural subjects were painted. English
potters produce the ware now.
	Sweden did not manufacture faience
until the 18th century, and has never
attained any eminence.
	Denmark has some potteries at Kiel
which are celebrated for their delicate
molding and painting of wares, but her
most celebrated are the Copenhagen ware.
	Russia borrowed the art of making ware
from Holland, Peter the Great having
brought potters from Delft. Today they
make some beautiful wares, and their ex-
hibit at the World’s Fair was excellent.
	Austria is chiefly noted for its Vienna
ware.

[Column 3]
	Switzerland seems to have devoted her
talents to enameled ware, to making stoves.
	From mounds in North and South
America there has been taken many speci-
mens of soft pottery, but no date. Every-
thing prior to the discovery of the western
continent is buried in obscurity. The
specimens found, however, show close
resemblance to European fabric. After
the settlement of America by Europeans
coarse pottery was made here, but our
ancestors used pewter and wooden dishes.
	Pottery was not common in America until
the middle of the 18th century, and few of
revolutionary times had ever seen porce-
lain. Tea was not used in Europe until
the middle of the 17th century, and teapots
and teacups and saucers were not made in
Europe until the latter part of the 17th
century. So consequently when the people
of Mass. gave their great tea-party in Boston
harbor, porcelain was conspicuous by its
absence.
	Before the end of the 18th century many
potteries were established. In 1770 China
works were established in Philiadelpia a few
specimens of which are preserved. In 1847
a factory was established in Bennington,
Vt. In 1848 another factory was establish-
ed, but the glazing cracked and the body
blistered. After many failures it was found
they had a man in their employ who was
paid by English parties to make failures.
He was discharged and the porcelain no
longer cracked. From that time to this
potteries have increased until now there are
nearly one thousand potteries in the United
States turning out all kinds of ware, from
terra cotta to porcelain. I will speak brief-
ly on a few and show what beautiful ware
America attained to under the greatest
difficulty. 
						S. L. M. 
                   (Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. OLIVE C. BUTLER Mrs. Evange-
line Heartz and Mrs. M. A. B. Conine, of
Denver have been elected members of the
Colorado House of Representatives on the
Populists fusion ticket. One of these
legislators-elect, Mrs. Butler, is entitled to
especially cordial congratulations from
Massachusetts, since she is a Massachusetts
emigrant, a Boston woman, born under the
very shadow of Bunker Hill Monument,
and educated in the public and private
schools of Massachusetts.
	THE Vermont Senate, last Thursday,
Nov 5, passed the Municipal Woman Suf-
frage bill by an almost unanimous vote,
only one Senator voting against it.
	MISS GRACE E. PATTON of the Colorado
State Agricultural College, has just been
elected State Superintendent of public in-
struction, to succeed Mrs. Angenette M.
Peavey.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

A Christmas Greeting and a Happy New Year to All.	


VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15—24, 1896.	NO. 12


CONTENTS:

	Thanksgiving Party At Parowan.—E. Crane
Watson. Titian’s First Works At Padua, And
Titian As State Artist—(Mrs.) L. S. D. A Friend
ly Letter—W. H. Beard. Leaves From My
Journal—Kim. Miss Snow’s Recital. Scandal—
Dr. Elvira Stevens Barney. U. W. P. C.—Orielle
Curtis, Sec. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina
Y. Hyde, Sec. Bear Lake Stake—Louisa Tueller
Sec. Obituary—Robert Hazen. Sketch And
Resolutions Of Respect. Ceramics—S. L. M.
	EDITORIAL:—Editorial Notes. Christmas In
The Long Ago.
	POETRY:—An Allegory—M. C. W. Resurgam
—Hannah T. King.


AN ALLEGORY.

OUT of the East one radiant morn,
  Staunch and true, with the sea to cope,
A ship sailed far adown the bourne, 
  Freighted with love and faith and hope.
Blue was the sea and bright was the sky, 
  Sunbeams gilded each spar with gold; 
The dancing diamond spray leaped high, 
  And white sails spreading, fold on fold,—
Seemed like birds of promise hast’ning far
  To a home-nest beautiful o'er the Bar,
	What Port O, sailor? I cried!
“Hope love and faith, are my freightage,
  And I sail to the fair Western Gate;
To the land of promise and glory,
  Where love crowned with laurels doth wait.”
“Ah! but do ye not fear the tempest, 
  With its giant strength and power, 
When the sea shall rise in its fierceness
And crush thee as ’t would a flower?
When the heavens now blue and smiling
  Are black with the wild driving storm,
And deep ocean caverns are yawning
  To engulf thy fair buoyant form,
When the wild winds shall shriek around thee
  Like demons of the mighty deep,
And tear asunder thy white sails,
  And the mad waves shall o’er thee leap?
	O, sailor furl thy sails!
“Nay, for my ship is staunch in her youth, 
  My cargo though precious is light;
And Hope guides the helm, and Faith
  Tells me that love will outlast the night.”
"But the night cometh sudden and dark
  And the clouds go scurrying by,—
Winds call ’cross foam-flecked waters; hark
  Hear how the thunders crash in the sky!—
Now the ship breasts the highest billows,—
  Now sinketh adown in the main,—
Like Pharaoh, the waves engulf her,—
  Her sails are torn by the hurricane.
The storm comes in darkness and fury,
  The ship strains at every seam,
The sailor grows heart-sick and weary,
  And of sunlight there’s never a gleam:
She hath battled so long with commotion
  She is wounded and worn with the toil;
Let her rest on thy bosom, O, Ocean!
  Cease thy fury and warring turmoil,
	Be tranquil, thou Sea!


Afar in the west there’s a gleam of light,
	And the roar of the sea sinks to murm’ring sighs,
The stars of hope shine out i’ the night,
	And the ship reads her way in the skies
She has battled bravely, well and long,
	For her freightage of hope, faith and love;
The haven is near and true and strong
	She will anchor where naught can move.
		The tempest is o’er.
Now nearer comes the long’d for Port in sight,
	Where waters gently lap the shining sand;
Gone are the fears and dangers of the night,
	And love eternal, clasps thee by the hand,
		O, gentle sailor! 
                                                            M.C.W.
Oct. 15, 1892.


THANKSGIVING PARTY AT PARO-
WAN.

	WE are justly proud of our R. S. organ-
ization; a more earnest, united band of
sisters would be hard to find; their efforts
on Thanksgiving day only served to
strengthen our good opinion of them.
	Our society gave what is known to us by
the homely name of “a wood hauling
party,” the brethren (especially the young
portion) hauling wood for a Thanksgiving
dinner and dance ticket. Thiry-three loads
of excellent fuel was received and distribut-
ed amongst the needy, and many hearts
were thereby made glad and more thankful
than ever.
	Beside the wood haulers and ladies, all
over sixty-five were invited. Our tables
were arranged in our new Social hall, (plates
laid for one hundred and sixty at each
sitting,) and were filled three times. One
feature that added to the day’s success our
Bishop assisted from the beginning with a
will, both by work and financial aid; one
thing in particular, he personally paid for
all the turkeys for our feast, which was one
indeed, ’twas utterly surprising where so
many good things came from after such a
trying summer, not only these present
shared that bountiful repast but the sick
and the motherless children were richly
remembered.
	We had large committees of both breth-
ren and sisters who worked hard for three
days, yet all feel fully compensated when-
ever they think of the great amount of
good wrought by their labors.
	Our association is energetic and faithful,
we have our meetings regular and well
attended, our membership is one hundred
and twenty-five. We have been wondering
if there would be any change in the day of
our testimony meeting, as the general fast
day is on Sunday, would it not be allowable
for us to hold ours some evening? It would
be more convenient for every mother whose
children are in school, and more of the
young sisters would be apt to join us. God
bless the beautiful cause.
			{S. A. ADAMS, Pres.
			E. CRANE WATSON, Sec.


TITIAN’S FIRST WORKS AT PADUA
AND
TITIAN AS STATE ARTIST.

	IN giving an account of the paintings of
so great a master, it is only possible to 
speak of the most celebrated ones. In fol-
lowing Titian “the Prince of Colorists’’
into Padua, we find there, as well as else-
where, the proof of the great things that
have been said of him. In 1511 he went
to Padua, the center of Italian art and in
tellectual development, where he did some
Palace, and a great deal of Church Fresco-
ing, a work he always disliked.
	His best decorative work was done on the
Convent of St. Anthony and consisted of
descriptive scenes and incidents in the life
of that Saint.  One of the best Frescoes
painted at Padua was “The Triumph of 
Faith,” of which one of the critics of the
day said: “It is a Masterpiece and worthy
a Christian painter.” “The Three
Miracles,” of St Anthony was his best work
done at that time. While they were not
considered historical works they were noted
for their magnificently drawn figures, poet-
ical beauty and a glowing perfection of
color.
	Titian having been in Padua about six
months returned to Venice in the early
spring. At this time he was invited to
Rome by Pope Leo X., an invitation he
refused because of his higher ambition as
well as his love of more congenial society.
In 1513 Titian desiring fame more than
fortune, petitioned “State Council of Ten”
that he be allowed to paint in the Hall of
the Council leaving all financial matters to
the discretion of the Council, a proposition
the authorities were not slow in accepting.
Thus Titian became State Painter but on
account of the many delays caused by his
professional enemies, who were envirous of
the favors shown him, he did not finish
any of his first paintings for several years.
In 1516 Titian went to Favara and visited
with and painted the portrait of the Duke
Alfonso I., which was admired by Michael
Angelo and is now in the Gallery at
Madrid.  He also painted the portrait of
the Duchess, Alfonso’s first wife, who was
none other than the famous Lucrezia Bor-
gia. Titian was employed by this Prince
more than two years at this time, and paint-
ed some very fine pictures some of which
seem to embrace all the characteristics of
this great artist. In one of these paintings
there is shown over sixty figures in as
many different attitudes. It is said that
one of the great artists shed tears when
this painting was carried away from Italy.
Alfonso did not only pay Titian generously
for his paintings but bestowed on him all
the honors he would have shown a great
nobleman of a rank superior to his own.
After this Titian painted many pictures
that became celebrated. Two of the most
noted ones were “The Assumption of the
Virgin” and “The Martyrdom of St. Peter
Martin.” At this time Titian was filling
several important commissions for others.
Because of this the Venetian Government
became very angry at the artist and threat-


[Column 1]
ened to relieve him of his state duties, if he
did not devote all his time and talents to
the paintings wanted for the Doge Palace.
	Titian had five assistants, yet he could
scarcely fill the orders for paintings as they
came in, and through many of them ran a
thread of the love he still cherished for the
poetical scenes of his childhood. At this
time Titian painted a great many Court por-
traits and one of himself. That was called
by all his people “The precious gift of our
relative Titian.” In 1521 Alfonso invited
Titian to spend Christmas with him and
visit the Pope at Rome; he again refused
the Royal invitation, returning to his belov-
ed Venice, ‘‘the Home of all Artists.”
When asked why he did not accept the
invitation to visit the Pope he replied, ‘‘he
was tired of Courts and Princes,” but he
must have formed a liking for high life
while at Court for upon returning to Venice
he purchased a fine house and ‘‘lived
splendidly;” yet the possession of great
wealth and loss of companions did not pre-
vent his continuous painting, for it was in
these, the most brilliant years of his life,
in that Venetian studio, he painted some of
his best pictures, many of which occupy
prominent places in the great art galleries
of the world. Titian’s reputation had by
this time spread throughout all Europe, so
that some of the Kings beseeched the Vene-
tian Government to allow him to paint their
portraits. In 1523 he was permitted to
paint the portrait of the King of France,
and the letter of introduction he bore to the
King from the State Council of Ten ran
thus in part: "This is Titian, most excel
lent in art, but modest and gentle withal.”
	Then followed another long visit to the
Duke Alfonso where he painted several of
his finest Festive pictures. Then back to
the Council where in the latter part of 1523
he painted ‘‘The Entombment of Christ”
and the ‘‘Glorious Madonna.” that caused
Pardone, his most bitter enemy, to give ex-
pression to his admiration of this great
work.
	Titian’s favorite style of painting the
Madonna was as a true, loving, motherly
woman, getting the idea from the mother
of his own children whom he loved so well.
Titian finished “The Martyrdom of St.
Peter Martyn,” in 1529 after two years
work. For this great painting Titian re-
ceived the reward offered by the Brother-
hood of St. Peter. We next find Titian in
the winter of 1529 and 30 at Bologna ming-
ling in the festivities surrounding the
grand ceremony of crowning Charles V. by
Pope Clement VII. Though Titian was
tired of Court life his artistic pulse must
have quickened at the sight of the com-
bined splendor of this ceremony, and the
brilliantly arrayed company of statesmen,
soldiers and scholars with their retinue
from all Germany and Italy. The first
portrait he painted on this occasion was
that of Pope Clement, which is now in the
Bridgewater Gallery, London. The next
one was of Charles V. who was so well
pleased that he became the firm friend and
patron of the artist. This portrait became
celebrated and is now in the Royal Gallery
at Madrid.
	There was so much Royal praise and 
favor bestowed on Titian at this time that
he returned to Venice laden with honors
and rewards, envied of his artistic powers
by all. In 1532 Charles V. rode into Italy
to receive the homage of her Princes. The
Emperor himself was an enthusiastic col-

[Column 2]
lector of art treasures, and after having
seen some of Titian’s work, he sent off at
once a pressing invitation for Titian to
come to him, which invitation that inde-
pendent artist heeded not, except through
his relation to the Court, till 1533 when he
again painted the Emperor. In May of the
same year, Titian was made Count of the
Empire, and Superintendant of the collec-
tion of Art Treasures. In 1537 Titian
painted the portraits of twelve Roman
Emperors. All of these paintings became
celebrated. In the latter part of 1537 Titian
had some financial trouble with the State
Council of Ten, and was nearly losing his
position as State Artist, through the treachery
of his enemy Pardone; but he regained
the favor of the Council by painting one of
his best works. In 1539 ‘‘The Presenta-
tion in the Temple,” now in the Venetian
Gallery, was Titian’s next important and
most gorgeous work.
	In 1542 Titian painted the portrait of
Pope Paul III., that gained for him the
name of “The Character Painter.” This
picture was said to look so natural that it
was almost “life itself.” Sometime after
this he returned to his Mountain Studio
where he painted the “Ecce Homo” of
1543 for which the Royal owner refused
thirty-five thousand dollars. In 1544 there
was several copies made of the portrait of
the Empress, the beloved wife of Charles
V. that was painted by Titian when the
lady was only twenty-five years of age; one
copy was presented to the Emperor, and
was the dearest treasure of his heart. Titian
up to this time having served his State
about 31 years, finds himself just in the
prime of his wonderful manhood, at about
the age of sixty-two, with eye and hand
and creative abilities as clear and strong as
they were in his youth.
A DESCRIPTION OF SOME OF TITIAN’S FA-
MOUS PAINTINGS.
“THE CHRIST OF THE TRIBUTE MONEY.”
	Titian made this painting to prove to the
critics that he had the finest artistic touch
as well as the greatest power. It is said
that the most delicate veins are discernable,
and that each hair in the ringlets on Christ’s
shoulders can be counted. This is claimed
as the most perfect easel picture Venice
ever produced
“THE NOLI ME TANGERE.”
	This is now in the National Gallery and
shows perhaps more clearly than any other
the true spiritual thoughts Titian had of
Christ, when he painted this picture of
Christ turning from the Magdalen. This
painting is noticed for its tranquility and
its poetical beauty.
“THE VIRGIN’S REST,”
	Is a sunset scene, showing the Virgin
and Child in company with St. John and
St. Catharine, and is celebrated for its
heavenly pathos and solemn grandeur and
is now in the National Gallery.
“THE DUKE ALFONSO,”
	Is the famous portrait of the Duke
Alfonso De Estes, so much admired by
Michael Angelo and was painted by Titian
at the same time he painted Alfonso’s first
wife’s, Lucrezia Borgia.
“THE ANNUNCIATION,” 
Was painted before 1519, and is noted
for the light that shines from the face of the

[Column 3]
archangel as the Divine, message is deliver-
ed to the Virgin.
“THE ASSUMPTION OF THE VIRGIN,”
	Is one of Titian’s masterpieces, and the
best single oil painting in the world, ex-
cept perhaps one on the same subject by
Raphael. It is this painting that caused
the beholder to say “It reminds me of
music.” Though darkened and faded it
is still the pride of the Venetian Gallery.
“THE ENTOMBMENT OF CHRIST.”
	Was painted in the Autumn of 1523. In
the painting are seen the figures of Nicode-
mus and Joseph bearing the body of the
Savior to the tomb. This painting is
famous for its wonderful lights and shadows.
“THE MADONNA DI CASA PESARA.”
	Some of the characters in this painting
are St. Peter, St. Athony, St. Thomas and a
Knight bearing the Jeweled staff of the
Church. It waspainted in 1526 and is now
in one of the greatest churches of Venice.
“THE MAYTYRDOM OF ST. PETER MARTIN.”
	This painting combines all of Titian’s
best talents in the artistic line, and is one
of the most wonderful pictures in the world.
It was painted for, and won the prize offer-
ed by the Brotherhood of St. Peter. The
Venetian Government so loved this paint-
ing that they ordered any one put to death
who dared remove it from its resting place.
Upon beholding this picture the beholder
was said to feel as if the air were darkened
with grief; it was burned in 1867.
“THE MADONNA DEL CONIGLIO.”
	This varies somewhat from the usual
style of Madonna's; instead of presenting
a grave or sad appearance, it shows the
Madonna sitting on the green grass fond-
ling a pet white rabbit. It is now in the
Louvre at Paris, the greatest Art Gallery
in the world.
“THE ECCE HOMO.”
	To give the necessary amount of solitude
to paint so sad a picture as this, Titian re-
tired to his mountain studio and there in
1543 he painted the finest Ecce Homo ever
given to the world of art; it was said to
be as good if not better than the one paint-
ed by Correggio. For this picture the roy-
al owner refused forty-five thousand dollars.
“THE PORTRAIT OF THE EMPRESS.”
	This was painted when the lady was
only twenty-five years of age. She was
then the beloved wife of Charles V., and
when upon his death bed his last wish was
“one last look at his wife, the Empress.”
					(Mrs.) L. S. D.


WOMANS EXPONENT


A FLAG reception was held at the Parker
House, Boston, the afternoon before the
election, under the auspices of the Ameri-
can Woman’s Sound Money League. Mrs.
Marion McBride presided and read a report
from thirty-one states in which women
have been working for the cause. Mrs. J.
Sewall Read spoke for the Woman’s Relief
Corps. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe also spoke
for the women and recited her poem on the
flag written during the war. Prof. Augus-
tus Bedford delivered a lecture on the de-
velopment of the American flag, and
llustrated it with miniature flags. Among
the other speakers were Rev. E. A. Horton
and Rev. A. A. Berl.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESURGAM.*
	I SHED not a tear
	O’er the dying old year!
I mourn not to see him depart—
	He has answered an end
 	Been my Mentor and friend,
And his Cenotaph hangs in my heart.
	I calmly look on
	As the requiem song,
Floats over my memory’s ear!
	Let the old year depart
	No regret’s in my heart,
And lachrymal cells hold no tear!
	My heart is at rest.
	And I fear not the test,
With which Time tries the children of Earth
	My all’s in the bank 
	Where the Saints ever rank,
And I fear not the desert or dearth.
	There is One up above,
	Whose Spirit is Love!
And through life I’ve experienced His care
	And a sure gurantee
	Shall the past be to me,
That of good things I’ll still have my share.
	But should the good things
	Be what poverty brings!—
May hope trim the lamp in my heart;
	For ’tis said those He loves,
	He most certainly proves,
To see if from Him they’ll depart. 
	Then let the year pass
	With his scythe and his glass,
Yet to Time—dear old Time, I owe much,
	He has ever been kind
	To my heart and my mind,
And has gently on each laid his touch.
	But the time has now come 
	For the year to go home,
And calmly we’ll lay him away—
	And hail the new year,
	With a welcoming cheer, 
And start for the years’ race today!
					HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. C., Dec. 31, 1876.
*Unpublished, found among some old papers
but remember its having been left over at the time
and think it will recall to mind one of our dear
departed sisters whose name often appeared in
the EXPONENT.
							EDITOR.


[Column 1]
A FRIENDLY LETTER.

SPICELAND, IND., Nov. 30, 1896.
	I acknowledge the receipt of a copy of the
Deseret Evening News of the 16 inst, con-
taining a well prepared sketch of the death
and life history of my esteemed and valued
friend, Mrs. H. M. Whitney. You may
be assured that I read this touching tribute
to the memory of my deceased friend with
feelings of inexpressible sorrow—not be-
cause I think she is not enjoying that rest
and peace that characterizes all our loved,
honored dead who have nobly and truly
filled their mission in life—not because I
entertain the idea that her present state is 
not better than when she lived, and hoped
and loved amid the changing scenes of
earth; but for the reason that we will
 never again be privileged to see her kind
face, or listen to her words of wisdom that
were always freely given in the interest of
justice and truth.
	In some respects I regard Mrs. Whitney
as a remarkable woman, a woman who has

[Column 2]
but few peers in moral and intellectual
worth. The large circle of friends she had
about her who had learned to love and
value her for her many worthy elements of
character, will, I am sure, revere the
memory, and strive to emulate the good 
deeds of the dear one who is now sleeping
in her windowless palace of rest.” Helen
Whitney has forded the “silent river”—
gone from among the scenes of a busy
world, but the good acts, the kind words
and the generous deeds recorded in her life
history will, in the course of time, become
jewels for all true womanhood. We will
all say of the deceased "gone but not for-
gotten.”
	During my travels in the distant west
sometime in the early spring of 1884, I
passed a brief interval in your famous
city enjoying the beautiful historic scenery
in and around the great Mormon metropo-
lis. I remember one bright morning I call-
ed at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Whitney,
told them I was a stranger seeking infor-
mation regarding the strange and peculiar
sect of which they were worthy representa-
tives. It is needless to say I received
a kindly greeting, I was warmly welcomed
to the hospitable home of these generous
people, and during my stay I had the
pleasure of a long conversation with the de-
ceased. Our discussion embraced many of
the leading topics, among which was the
“Mormon question.” I found my friend
familiar with the history of her church,
thoroughly conversant with every feature
of the “Mormon faith,” and fully conscious
of her duties as an advocate of that faith.
	The result of this interview was a warm
and lasting friendship that continued to
ripen with twelve eventful years of corres-
pondence. I have many letters of the de-
ceased that are highly prized for the broad
and liberal ideas they contain, and I have
had several of these friendly communica-
tions published through the Eastern press,
which received high editorial comment.
I trust the earnest life work of our dear one
will be a source of inspiration to those
who have had the privilege of familiarizing
themselves with it, and to the relatives I
take this method to extend my sympathy
and condolence in their hours of sorrow.
	Now I wish to thank you for thus re-
membering me by sending me your pen
picture of our mutual friend’s death, and
let me express a hope that some time in the
future I may visit your famed city, and
give you the grasp of a friendly hand. 
			With great respect,
				I am yours etc,,
					W. H. BEARD.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
	WE now drove to the Cathedral Santa Maria
del Fiore, it is of great extent and magnifi-
cence, the exterior is incrusted with prec-
ious marbles and filled with beautiful
sculpture, the northern porch is especially
fine, also the Southern door nearest the
apse with a garland of fig leaf by Pietro di
Giovanni, within it is paved with marble.
Behind the high altar is a Pieta unfinished,
and the inscription says the last work of
Michael Angelo executed in 1555, when he
was in his eighty-first year. The Crucifix
over the altar is by Bennedetto da Majano,
beneath the central altar of the apse is the
famous Shrine of San Zenobia, by Ghiberti,
1440. We now went inside the “Baptistery

[Column 2]
of my gracious St. John,” Dante—once
the Cathedral, its date is uncertain, it is
believed to have been once a temple of Mars,
the interior is dark. It is surrounded by
sixteen columns of which one is of white
marble and fifteen of gray granite. The
marble believed to be the column on which
the statue of Mars stood, near Ponte Vec-
chio. The Cupola is covered with Mosaics,
the high altar has a beautiful frontal of sil-
ver repousse’ work. The old font 1128
was a large basin for immersion, surrounded
by smaller basins; in the present one all
the children born in Florence are baptized.
The beautiful tomb of Pope John XXIII is
by Donatello.
	This afternoon we take the train for
Bologna, only a short journey—the rail-
way crosses the valley of the Arno, the
plains of Lambardy and the Appenines.
There are forty-five tunnels, ten of which
are more than a mile long, with galleries,
bridges, viaducts and embankments, the
scenery is very beautiful, one of the most
interesting places en route was Pistoja,
famous for its iron works, here the pistol
was invented. Soon we arrive at Bologna,
Hotel d’ Italie, the proprietor always wel-
comes us, and always comes to wish us
good bye and bon voyage—it is a pleasant
custom.
	Bologna City is the capital of the prov-
ince of Bologna, situated in a fertile plain
near the northern foot of the Appenines,
eighty miles of rail north of Florence. A
handsome city, the paved streets are lined
with varied colonnades which afford shelter
from sun and rain. The palaces of the
nobility are fine, it has 74 churches, they
are beautiful and richly furnished with
paintings by the old Masters. The church
of San Stefano, one of the oldest in Italy,
contains Greek frescoes of the 12th century;
the church of San Petronio is a fine speci-
men of the Italian Gothic style, adorned
with masterpieces of painters and sculptors;
the church of San Dommica has sculptures
of M. Angelo, and paintings by Guido, L
Caracci and Colorma; those with the Cathe-
dral, rich in works of art, were all we had
time to visit. A most curious custom is
burying some of their holy people in a
sarcophagus standing on pillars in front of
their churches.
	We now drove about the city, the fountains
are most curious, and in a square near the
centre of the city are the Leaning Towers,
the Torre Asinelli, built in 1110, is Ferne
Say, 256 feet high, others 320 feet and leans
4 feet; the Torre Garisendi is 163 feet high
and leans 10 feet. They were designed so
and are not wonderful like that of Pisa.
	We now drove outside the walls, about
three miles is the pilgrimage church, La
Madonna di S. Luca, built in 1731, named
from the picture of the Virgin said to have
been painted by St. Luke. A most inter-
esting place was the Campo Santo, the
building is an old Monastery, 14th century,
devoted to its present use in 1801 on the
site of the Etruscan burial ground. You
can be buried here for one hundred dollars,
they come in the night, you are not made
sad by the sight of a hearse in this city, nor
do your family go with you; so the Priest
told us who showed us the monuments.
	Bologna is the native place of many emin-
ent painters, Guido, the three Caracci, and
of Pope Benedict XIV. The city was taken
by Charlemagne in 800 A. D., and was the
capital of the most powerful Italian repub-
lic from 1118 to 1274.
							KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cs. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
 	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY DECEMBER 15—24, 1896.


EDITORIAL NOTES
	MISS S. J. Curns of Baltimore and Miss
Nellie Colburn of Kansas, two young wo-
men traveling, and taking in the sights,
called with letters of introduction. They are
interested in all that has been done in Utah
to build up the country, and especially wo-
man’s advancement.
	WE have had recently a very pleasan 
visit from Mr. and Mrs. Morton Lindley of
California, people of education and refine-
ment and entirely without prejudice against
our people; Mr. Lindley is interested in
mining operations and they spent three
weeks in Mercur, and took in the places of
interest in the City. Mrs. Lindley is a
literary woman, has published one book of
fiction and has been employed quite a few
years in heavy literary work on law books,
Thompson’s Law Review; was also proof
reader and so on at one time with. Bancroft
when he was preparing his history, Mrs.
Lindley had called on me before her mar-
riage, with her mother in 1892 when the
office was opposite, the Templeton behind
the old wall.
	THE play given under the auspices of
the Old Folks Committee in the Theatre on
Tuesday Dec. 15, was very enjoyable.
The Old Homestead is a very attractive
piece and the company deserve hearty com-
mendation for their generosity to the aged,
the widows and orphans. This custom of
remembering the old folks is a very praise-
worthy one and should be an example to
the young people for however young and
charming now the day will come when only
the beauty of the soul remains. The Thea-
tre was crowded and it is certain that there
were many who thoroughly appreciated the
performance. God bless the old folks, the
widows and orphans and may they have
many more such blessed opportunities. And
may those who waited upon them and con-
tributed to their comfort also receive the re-
ward that always follows a generous action.
	SISTER SARAH M. KIMBALL President of
the Relief Society in the 15th ward in this city
made a widow’s party in the afternoon of
Nov. 19 ult. The spacious hall was well
filled mostly with women, the Bishop of the
ward, Elias Morris, and the President of
the Stake, Angus M. Cannon and a few
other brethren were present barely a sprink-
ling. After singing and prayer Sister
Kimball made a neat little speech and then


Bishop Morris addressed the sisters followed
by Sister M. Isabella Horne, Zina D. H.
Young and Bathsheba W. Smith, all veter-
ans in the Church and in the cause of
charitable work. Brother Lovesay, recent-
ly from England, sang a humorous song
and Sister E. B. Wells spoke a short time,
followed by a returned Missionary and then
President Angus M. Cannon spoke to the
Relief Society. After singing the Doxolo-
gy the benediction being pronounced, re-
freshments were served to all, and conver-
sation became general, the delicate elderly
ladies were taken to and from the party in
carriages. This practice of entertaining
the lonely widows of the ward is very com-
mendable and we would humbly suggest to
others “Go thou and do likewise.”


MISS SNOW’S RECITAL.

	THE Hotel Templeton parlors were
crowded on Monday, November 23 ult, to
hear Miss Snow’s Recital. The audience
was highly appreciative. Miss Snow be-
gan with the early Christian Art as seen in
the Catacombs in Rome. The magnificent
Mosaic decorations in Venice; the Byzan-
tine school of art in Constantinople, closing
with Giovanni Cimoline, the Father of mod-
ern painting.
	Pictures were shown illustrating the dif-
ferent subjects. Following the lecture was
a talk on the Delsarte System of Expression,
Harmonic Gymnastics, gracefully illus-
trated. Excellent music was rendered by
Miss Oliver and Miss Della Daynes.
	Miss Snow is now giving a series of
Lecture Recitals in the Hotel Templeton
parlors every Wednesday afternoon at 3.30 p.
m., subjects, Art and Artists, illustrated by
pictures of great Masters. Each lecture is
followed by music and Delsarte Society
Gymnastics. 
	After the holidays Miss Snow will
begin another series of Lectures. For fur-
ther information see Miss Snow at her stu-
dio, Brooks Arcade, opposite Hotel Knuts-
ford.


SCANDAL.

	PERSONS who always take the oppor-
tunity to burlesque the mistakes of another,
are liable to disfigure their own physiog-
nomy permanently, as one that always
frowns wear, on their brow wrinkles. In
making pictures a good artist will favor the
posing of them with proper light and shade,
that when his work is completed he can
realize to the fullest extent, an enjoyment of
the Golden Rule, “Do to others as you
would have them do unto you.”
	Gossip is something like many sides to
a picture. To more clearly illustrate my
idea; suppose you place several minors in
a room in a circular position, and the indi-
vidual who is to be pictured to him or her-
self in standing in front of one will see the
different individuals in the several mirrors,
and will be astonished to know that they
are the identical and same individual in the
several mirrors, that is facing the one mir-
ror, and are so unlike the face view. Then
how unjust (and to the disadvantage of the
original) it would be to represent the back
or side pictures, as a perfect and front view,
which is the side of a person that the be-
holder obtains varied expressions, that are
not obtained or conveyed in the other repre-


sentations. Again life has its different
phases. The child is admired because of
its perfection of feature in its innocence,
though ignorant. Prime of life is appreciat-
ed because of its usefulness; old age is ap-
preciated because of its experience and
knowledge.
	“Man know thyself.” The acts of an
individual are an open expression of the
educated will. The child may be naturally
morose but it has forgotten its temper if
associated with its opposite. ‘‘Bad manners
corrupt good morals.” Children learn
in their childhood plays, to both build
up and tear down; but the individual of
maturity of mind and body, build a better
castle prior to tearing down the old one.
	Christmas will soon be here. Why not
feed the child’s heart and mind with proper
reading instead of the ridiculous caricatures
which are a detriment to the circulators as
well as a disgrace to the makers. Can it be
possible that any parent is so lost to the
duty to children, neighbors and friends as
to encourage the purchasing of anything
that is so exaggerated as to lose all sem-
blance of truth? If any disease is not
fostered by what it feeds on, it will die
naturally of itself. Burlesque and ridicule
will never elevate an individual; one that
is given to such propensities, as a remedy I
wonld suggest a daily reading of Jesus’
Sermon on the Mount. Again health knows
no pain, but what of sickness? The indi-
vidual is not the same in body nor mind— 
neither the same in poverty, as in wealth.
What of God’s laws? Perfection; just so
far when applied to the individual as they
have attained to it. In order to measure
arms with the Almighty, one would be
necessitated to stand upon the same exalted
pedestal of intelligence and power. O,
how futile is man!
		DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.


U. W. P. C.

	NOV. 30, 1896 the U. W. P. C. was call-
ed to order at 8.30 p m., E. B. Wells in
the chair. The first business of the eve-
ning was the installation of the new officers;
before taking her seat as President, Mrs.
Fox made a motion, that a vote of thanks
be extended to Mrs. Wells for her efficient
work as president; the motion accepted
unanimously, and Mrs. Wells was made
Past President by society’s vote. Mrs. Fox
then accepted the presidential chair for the
coming year. After a short address by the
new President, the programme for the eve-
ning was given. A poem “Thanksgiving
Thoughts” by Dr. Shipp. A paper,
“Slavery as a National Problem” by Mrs.
Arthur Brown. Reading from the col-
lection of Poems, “ Shadows and Whisper-
ings” by Mrs. E. B. Wells. Paper
“Titian” by Mrs. Syntitha Dickinson.
Reading “Symmetrical Womanhood”
by Mrs Rachel Miller. A poem Pro
tanto” by Dr. Curtis. After the comple-
tion of the programme the motion was made
and carried that Mrs. McVicker be retained
as critic. Another was also carried that
Mrs. May R. Taylor be admitted as a mem-
ber of the club. 
   Time for the meeting of the club was
changed to 7.30 p. m. Adjournment was
in order.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTALY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet- 
ing held in the 14th ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Nov. 28, 1896, President M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. Singing “O,
happy souls who pray;” prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe; singing “Glorious things
are sung of Zion;” minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	President Horne felt it was good to meet
together and speak of the goodness of the
Lord, one to another. “We must be contin-
ually on the watch-tower, guard our speech
for Satan took advantage of our words, not
our thoughts, we should have good in our
hearts ‘for out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh,’ we should seek
to have the Spirit of the Lord always.”
Spoke on faith, repentance and baptism,
said when she thought of the privileges we
enjoyed she felt we are truly a blessed
people, related a vision of Brother Wood-
ruff’s wherein he saw Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and seeing them in such a burry,
being very busy, he asked why this was.
They told him this was the last dispensa-
tion and they were getting ready for the
resurrection. Said we should use very great
wisdom in asking the Lord for spiritual
gifts especially the gift of tongues, thought
if God had a gift for us it was for a special
purpose and he would give it to us. Re-
fered to President Woodruff’s sermon on 
this subject and urged the sisters to live
their religion and prayed the Lord to bless
us all.
	Sister Leaker testified to God’s goodness
to her and felt to coincide with everything
said by President Horne, spoke of her Tem-
ple work; felt to praise the Lord. Sisters
Morris and Julia Samson bore faithful testi-
monies. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President Mary Ann Hyde in her re-
marks refered to the recent death of Sister
Helen Mar Whitney, also many other dear
friends who had passed away, spoke on
faith and told of a blessing given her by one
of these sisters in which she was told she
should have great faith. This had been
literally fulfilled, she and three young 
children had been healed by faith, urged
the mothers to watch carefully, made some
beautiful and encouraging remarks and
prayed the Lord to bless us, also warned
the sisters to be wise in asking for the gift 
of tongues. 
	President Horne related how she receiv-
ed the gift of tongues, also spoke of her
youngest daughter having this gift but that
they both came unsought. Refered to Sis-
ter Hyde who had this gift but always used
it in wisdom and by the Spirit of the Lord,
spoke strongly on this subject. Sister Zina
Hyde spoke on this subject.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown related an in- 
stance of the gift of speaking in tongues,
knew the Spirit of the Lord was the great- 
est comfort and blessing to her, alluded to
the goodness of the Lord and how His hand 
had been over her all the time for good, 
bore her testimony. 
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to testify to the
truth of what had been said in regard to
the gift of tongues, related an instance of 
engaging in prayer with her little family
and how she then and there received the
gift, felt this was a comforting gift; “there
is a book of remembrance kept and when the
sisters testify of the goodness of God this 
is recorded. President Horne made a few

[Column 2]
closing remarks and meeting adjourned for
two weeks.
	Singing “Satan’s power long has florish-
ed;” benediction by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
			ZINA Y. HYDE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of R lief Society Conference of
the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, held in the
Paris 1st ward meeting house, Sunday,
Nov. 29, 1896. Opened by singing “ O,
God our help in ages past;” prayer by
Bishop Price; continued by singing
“When earth in bondage;” sacrament
was then administered under the hands of
the Paris 1st ward Bishopric. Sacramental
hymn “Ye children of the Lord.” Presi-
dent Julia Lindsay presiding, also before
receiving reports she offered a few timely re-
marks.
	Paris 1st ward represented favorably by
President Margaret Inness; Paris 2nd ward
represented by President Ashley; Bloom-
ington ward represented by Counselor L. M.
Hart, who afterwards said how she thought
we should all be truly sincere in our
religious duties, also related many beauti-
ful items of her experience while passing
through the Temple, told how her noble
and beautiful mother taught her to be
economical, neat and tidy, said it was
necessary and right for young ladies to be
careful in taking good counsel from their
loving mother and put aside ca elessness.
learn to make good bread, and mend their
clothing and shoes if necessary and prepare
for future usefulness. Also said how care-
ful young ladies should be in choosing hus-
bands, and not be too hasty to wed, said
how she looked forward for things she has
been deprived of in this life, that she can re-
ceive in the life to come if she is faithful,
advised the sisters never to speak indiffer-
ently of the Priesthood before their child-
ren or they will regret it all their lives, also
wished us to be liberal with our means and
cultivate charity, and help those who are
in need and try to be Saints in very deed.
	Sister Bagley reported the Montpelier
ward as being in a very fair condition, said
although Montpelier has had a bad name
and that people cannot possibly be Saints
that live there, yet they have a good Relief
Society and many of the sisters are very
liberal when called upon to aid the needy.
Also said how careful a mother should be
to cultivate the spirit of the Gospel and
prepare our families to understand the duties
required of them when about to start in
life for themselves, so as to have our child-
ren worthy members in the kingdom of God.
If we are members of the Relief Society we
will be able to get rid of false ideas, we will
also become better wives and mothers than
we would otherwise. How necessary it is
for us to be kind and thoughtful to the
orphan and help cheer those who are in
distress and downcast We should also
respect old age, and try to assist in sickness
Thanked our Heavenly Father for the
privilege of living in this last age and dis-
pensation, exhorted the young people to
respect their religion and live a good and
true life.
	President Lindsay said if we only put in
practice what we already have heard, we
would accomplish something great. Al-
ways had taken comfort to know that her
anchor of courage has been that she had a
standing in the Church and Kingdom of
God, always felt comforted when having

[Column 2]
prayed to our Heavenly Father and had
things brought to her mind that she had
not thought of before, many times when in
need of the same, also has been able to
overcome that fear or timidity that comes
upon us when we are called upon to speak
to the Saints, desired to live to do good,
although at times she had wondered what
good it was to live now her husband had
passed away and her family all raised.
Related her experience in her Temple
work, told how worried she was about her
work on account of some of the members of
her family not being able to go through
the Temple to work for dead relatives not
having time etc., said how the Lord
miraculously answered her prayers with re-
gard to getting her great genealogy, 1438
having been baptized for already and some
few endowed for. It was astonishing how
much baptizing her nephew got through in
a day, 300 baptisms. By the help of Sister
Spencer has been able to accomplish so
much genealogical work, felt how good it
was to be under the influence of the Holy
Spirit and feel the presence of the heavenly
beings, after having worked one day in the
Temple, felt repaid for all her life’s suffer-
ings and trials, would not change her posi-
tion in plural marriage for anything or on
any account. Be very careful how we
speak of the Lord's anointed because it is
not our duty to criticise their actions, but
be Saints in very deed. Never knew dur-
ing her experience in this Church such a
spirit of fault-finding as there is today.
	Our Relief Society is organized in all its
branches in order to exercise our charita-
table feelings to all who are in need, Mor-
mon or Gentile, and we believe that in the
near future we will be called upon to help
and assist many who are not of our faith,
asked the Lord to help us to remain firm
and steadfast, and reminded us that after
we become members of the Relief Society
we take upon ourselves great responsibili-
ties.
	President James Hart had enjoyed the re-
marks that had been made, felt to com-
mend the valuable instruction that had
been given, could not empahsize too much
the useful and timely remarks that had
been made in regard to respecting the
Priesthood etc. We are to much given to
say “I can’t do this, and I can’t do the
other, ” we should be willing to say“ I can
do all things through Christ’s strengthen-
ing my labors.” There are many things
required of us in the various stages of life;
we can do all things required of us through
asking the Lord’s assistance, rejoiced in
the great good our worthy sisters were
doing, and felt proud of being numbered
with the Latter-day Saints, said we should
be ready at all times to forsake everything
for the Gospel’s sake. We are privileged
to be heirs to the Priesthood, prayed that
the spirit of this meeting would go out to
all other wards in this Stake, and may the
Lord’s choicest blessings rest upon us all.
	Conference was adjourned for six months;
choir sang “Onward Christian Soldiers;”
benediction by President William Rich.
		LOUISA TUELLER, Acting Sec.


CHRISTMAS IN THE LONG AGO.

	SEATED around a wide open fireplace
where the great logs of wood burned cheer-
fully, and the tile hearth was bright and
shining, the strong brass fire-dogs flashing


[Column 1]
in the reflection of the blaze, and all things
else correspondingly neat and cosy, were a
family party in the comfortable sittingroom,
mother and children, all busy at the
evening task, making ready for the coming
Christmas.
	“Another lonely Christmas mamma
without father, how blue we shall all be,
and what a cheerless dinner even though
we all try to keep up appearances; wouldn’t
it be better to go to grandfather’s old place
in the country instead of staying here wait-
ing for the ship to come in when it has
been so long due, and we’ve had no news
of her?” said the eldest daughter Clara,
opening the evening’s conversation. Before
the mother could reply John looking up
from his book in the corner exclaimed,
“ Yes mamma let us go to the old home-
stead in the country, I’ve not been there
since I was a child, and it would be jolly
to trudge around there once again climbing
the stiles, and going through the hedges
hunting the lost turkeys and other farm
fowls; and the great barn was a fine place
for us to hide in when we were boys, do
you remember Frank, the fun we had there
the last time we paid a visit? When father
was home from the Mediterranean and
had'nt seen his old home for many years,
not since we were born anyway, imagine if
we were to do that what would mamma
say?
	“Evidently mamma is not going to get
a chance to answer any of your queries, but
if permitted to speak, mamma will say, that
if your father does not come to-night, and
we hear no news of him, or the ship, we
will go to Hillside and spend Christmas.” 
	"Good, good,” said the three boys all
in one breath; and Clara and Edith joined
in with "delightful, glorious!” "It is
stupid here,” said golden haired Edith,
"and I'm so anxious to see the country
again, even if there should be some snow
it would be the merrier, we might meet
some of those ‘honest country lads,’ grand-
pa always talks to us about with more vir-
tues than manners, not like the city-bred
fellows who pride themselves on their
broadcloth and fine style, so he thinks.”
	"Grandpa is right though girs, he
knows the world pretty well and the men
that make it,” said John. “ No donbt of
it," Edith replied “but who would want
to marry one of them, why we could never
think of having one for a husband, think of
a life time of it, settling down for year in
and year out with such a fellow, and no
amusements, nowhere to go.”
	"We will not discuss marriage just
now,” said Clara interupting, “you are not
out of your teens, but say Edith wouldn’t
it be better to have your husband home
tending the farm, and feeding the stock in
the winter time, than out on the high seas,
exposed to dangers, and never see him at
all, year in and year out, as you say, not
even at Christmas.” 
	“Don’t girls, don’t talk so, you make
everything so real, we’ll go to your grand-
pa’s and try to drive away dull care for a
day or two during holiday week, and may-
be there’ll be news of the ship Goodspeed
by that time,” said the mother pathetically.
	“Well one thing certain I’ll never go to
sea and leave my wife and children, if I
ever have them,” said John, “nor I
either,” echoed Frank, “nor me,” repeat-
ed Fred the youngest.
	“Perhaps you wont all be delighted
when father comes home after this long

[Column 2]
voyage and brings us all presents, then
you’ll sing another tune, and say how you
love the sea, and the ships, and what a
good thing it is to have a father who goes
sailing all around Cape Horn and Cape
Good Hope and all the other Capes, and
brings you home a jolly lot of curios and
things,” said Clara deprecatingly.
	But just then the front door bell rang out
loud and clear, and the mother anxious
with long waiting and hope defered, turned
deathly pale and almost fainted, while John
a stalwart boy of seventeen, sprang with a
bound into the hall, throwing wide open
the door and rushing into his father’s arms
buried his face in the great shaggy fur
coat, and by this time all were being kissed
and made glad, the seaman’s great coat was
cast aside, and the bronze face and shaggy
gray beard of Captain Tremont were visi-
ble; Fred climbed on his knee and began
thrusting his hands into his father’s capa-
cious pockets (of which there were many)
and while Clara went to see after supper and
the boys and Edith all talked at once, Mrs.
Tremont sat silent, too glad and too much
overcome to find utterance in words. By
and by supper over and the boys gone up
stairs to bed, Captain Tremont grew talka-
tive. “What had you planned for Christ-
mas, mother did you include me? We’ve
had some rough seas this trip, I’ve never
seen more storms, I knew how hard it
would be for you wife, with me away and
all these big boys and girls to look after,
and not much means, and a man don’t
know when he comes home after a long
voyage what he’s coming home to, we can’t
get much news on these long voyages you
know, when we come into port, we’re often
disappointed about letters, and sometimes 
there’s bad news and we dread getting
any, when we see one of the crew shocked
by the news he gets—and then when we’re
near home we hardly dare ask after our
own;—you’re nervous and pale wife, but if
you had seen me shake when I got out of
the coach up at Field’s-inn, you would not
have believed it was the same man that had
just come from port, and bade his men good
bye,—but never mind now I know all’s
well at home, how good that sounds when
a man’s been away nigh on to four years.”
	“We don’t care for Christmas now father,
this is good enough for us, the best Christ-
mas we could have is to see you well and
have you here with us, mamma thinks so
I’m sure, and Edith and myself will try to
make you as happy as though you were young
lovers again.” “And wont you want
anything else, what about Santa Claus,
does he come round nowadays when your
old father is not at home?” “O yes, you
remember the boxes we had last year all
the way from Spain, and they came a few
days ahead of Christmas, but we waited
until Christmas eve and we were so jolly,
the boys and all, even Polly and Tim.”
	“Well girls I’ve brought more presents
home than I could send, and one too big
for a box, that I hope you’ll like,” with a
knowing look at his demure wife.—“O,
father what is it a Kangaroo?” said Edith,
“What nonsense,,' replied Clara “of
course it is a native of some of those islands
his man Friday, undoubtedly.”
	“You shall see tomorrow I had to leave
it at the inn, because I didn’t know wheth-
er I should frighten you all with my shaggy
coat and unkempt beard; but as you kept
your wits pretty well at the surprise, for
you evidently did not expect me, I’ll ven-

[Column 3]
ture to bring the biggest Christmas box
tomorrow, let me see, this is the 23rd of Dec-
ember, and at evening we ought to be
at Hillside, what will your dear old grand-
pa say to a rough seafaring man like your
father.”
	“But hadn’t we better stay here now
you’ve come, and not go out in the cold,
you must be weary father after such a long
voyage and severe storms on the ocean.”
	“No wife, I think we’ll go, we might as
well all be happy together and father would
be glad to know I’m safe on land once
more; aye, but it does give one a queer
sensation, I fancy I feel the ship rolling,
and I’m swaying back and forth, yes we’ll
go by all means it’s only about ten miles
drive, and with a good team and if the
roads are not very rough, we’ll get there in
good time, its a roomy old house and Aunt
Bettie’ll make us all welcome.”
	The girls retired and Captain Tremont
and his patient, loving wife who had been
separated so many years from each other,
sat and talked until the fire went out, and
then the half had not been told of happen-
ings, and hopes and fears for each other
and their loved ones ; but “tired nature”
must have rest, and “balmy sleep” comes
to the relief of all ; what a boon to mortals
given.
	In the morning boxes were opened and
gifts distributed only a few reserved for
Santa Claus, but the great wonder too big to
put in a box had not arrived, and the fam-
ily were all guessing and asking numberless
questions; but the greatest surprise was
reserved for Hillside farm. 
	The ride was pleasant for the day was
very fine and the happy party thoroughly
enjoyed each other’s society. On their
arrival which was entirely unexpected (ex-
cept as the grandfather declared he had a
presentiment) a sumptuous repast was serv-
ed and the old home was decorated with
holly and evergreen, according to the time-
honored custom of Christmas eve. Aunt
Bettie the housekeeper was never without
Christmas preparations in the way of lux-
uries, and the boys found the barn as delight-
ful as in the days of hide and seek games.
The one subject that provoked discussion
was the Christmas box, which did not get
there, as the boys and girls had anticipated.
Supper over the family gathered into the
great sittingroom, full of memories for Cap-
tain Tremont and as he spoke of the familiar
articles and appearance of the room, and of
his mother’s “old arm chair,” father and
son so long parted, could not keep back the
tears of affection; how wonderfully these
thoughts rush in upon us at such times!
Fancy conjures up the visions of the past
and the very faces of those so near and dear
seem to shine out in the unreal picture.
	Edith breaks in upon the reverie which
followed the pathetic scene between father
and son, and turned the tide into one of
query aud chatter about the Christmas gift
too big to pack in a box. The guessing
was kept up for an hour or more, until fin-
ally the Captain’s father grown weary of
the nonsense, inquired about the ship and
the voyage from which his son had just re-
turned, and Mrs. Tremont interrupting,
asked her husband to tell some of his expe-
riences; she knew very well this would si-
lence further conjecture about the mysteri- 
ous Christmas present. While thrilling
stories of narrow escapes and terrible storms
at sea were being told in a graphic manner,
and the children were listening as if a spell
were upon them, Mrs. Tremont and Aunt


Bettie busied themselves in adjoining rooms
with Santa Claus in real earnest, for Mrs.
Tremont was in the secret and had received
her instruction.
	Finally when all was ready, and the sig-
nal given to the Captain, the doors were
thrown open and in walked a man as large
and heavy as the Captain himself, loaded
with baskets and boxes, his face hidden be-
neath a hat seemingly of snow, and a beard
long and dark partly concealed by a snowy
muffler; he was decorated with bells that
tinkled as he strode into the centre of the
room and began to set down his bundles.
	“ O, he’s a real Santa Claus,” exclaimed
little Frank, while the girls held their breath
lest he should vanish away, and matter of
fact John declared, he was his father’s man
Friday. But the old fellow did not speak
nor offer to explain, and graudpa who was
not in the confidence of the knowing ones,
asserted it was one of the country lads play-
ing a joke on them.
	“ Will you be seated and tell us your
errand here?” said the Captain as if he was
not aware of the stranger’s coming. ‘‘If
you please good sir I will deliver my mes-
sage and then depart if you permit me,”
said the stranger in a voice so deep-toned
and touching, that all started in amazement
for they knew instantly by his tones he was
a gentleman born and bred.
	Captain Tremont and his wife took the
various packages and bundles and handing
them to the members of the family who
trembling held them unopened, as though
afraid of the contents, and the Captain step-
ping up to the strange man said familiarly,
“It is midnight, remove your hat and coat,
let me introduce you," but the village
Church bells near the farn pealed out the
midnight mass, and silence reigned except
for the music of the bells; meantime the
girls awake to consciousness of the presence
of company, for quite a little gathering had
assembled noiselessly, and standing in the
centre of the group, Captain Tremont intro-
duced to the astonished girls, and to their
country cousins and friends, Mr. Mon-
tague alias Santa Claus. Then the pack-
ages were opened, and every one had some-
thing from a foreign port, but the interest
all centered upon the stranger, and all sorts
of guessing was indulged in among the
curious young people. Dancing and other
festivities, including kissing under the mis-
tletoe, were kept up till nearly daybreak,
but the stranger was quiet and reticent and
the disappointed crowd were compelled to
retire for rest, no wiser than they came con-
cerhing Mr. Montague.
	“Christmas however shall not pass,”
said Edith to her sister after they were safe
in their bedroom, ‘‘without my unsolving
this mystery. Why has father brought
this man here? Is he to remain at our
house or go to sea again when the ship
sails?" Clara was as puzzled as her sister,
and only replied by asking more questions.
	“Are you favorably impressed with him
Edith? Would you like him to stay? Or
do you prefer one of your country cousins,
or one of grandpa’s honest lads?” This and
much more in the same strain passed be-
tween the sisters until sleep visited them,
and when morning dawned, refreshed and
exuberant in spirits, they sought the break-
fast room with the gay greetings of youth
and innocence, Mr. Montague was there and
several of the guests, young men and maid-
ens; but the great attraction for all was the
stranger who had been so mysteriously in-
troduced into the house.
	Edith succeeded before dinner in catching
her father alone in the hall and plying him
with questions which he evaded but prom-
sed to enlighten them later on when he
had a good opportunity.
	After dinner Christmas day Captain Tre-
mont told the story of Fred Montague. A
terrific storm of wind and hail caught the
ship near the Baltic sea, and not being able
to see, when night came on the darkness
was so dense the Goodspeed collided with
the Friendly, which had only recently sailed
out of port; both vessels were injured, but
the Friendly seriously, so that she had to
be abandoned, the men on board took to
the boats, and as the sea continued high,
and the storm did not abate nearly all per-
shed. . Mr. Montague managed to sight
the ship Goodspeed, and when the pilot
discovered the boat like a speck, measures
were taken to find whether it was empty;
finding it contained a human being the
kind-hearted sailors brought him more dead
than alive on board. He revived under
the tender care of the ship doctor, and feel-
ing he owed his life to the crew he made
himself useful in every way possible. The
first mate was takeu ill and Mr. Montague
took his place and succeeded so well, with
the help of other men, that he continued
with the vessel, and when Capt. Tremont
finding a chance to send him home on a
ship they met bound for France, he refused
to go, saying he would stand by the ship
until she came into the British port. It
was quite evident a strong attachment had
sprung up between the two men, and Mr.
Montague determined to abide with the
Captain.
	The visit to Hillside farm was prolonged
and the merry party of young people did
not fail to enjoy the time in a round of gay
festivities. The preferences among the
young people came to be quite noticable be-
fore the holiday week was over, and the
anxious mother saw how interested Edith
and Fred were in each other, and mentioned
to the Captain what she observed. ‘‘It is
all right,” said he, “I informed myself of
his parentage and character before bringing
him home as a Christmas present. Noth-
ing would suit me better than to say yes,
when I am asked.” “Then suppose I
should tell you Clara is enamored of one of
her numerous country cousins?” “I should
not be displeased wife—we have not for-
gotten how easy it was for us to fall in love,
but two engagements Christmas week and
so soon after my return is not very flatter-
ing to the father, and it really is more
than we bargained for, however we must
make the best of it and it wont be very
hard work, two reputable young men in
the family will be an acquisition to be
proud of. I suppose its all owing to the
mistletoe and its powerful influence, we
must lay it to something you know."
“Its human nature I should judge,” said
his wife, “considering men and women
have been falling in love ever since the
creation in the Garden of Eden.”
	The dear old grandfather heard the en-
gagements announced before Captain Tre-
mont took his family back to the city, and
gave them his blessing and invited them to
come and celebrate their double wedding
the next Christmas.
	And so the Christmas looked forward to
gloomily by these two young girls brought
them many blessings, gifts from afar, corals
from the South sea islands, shawls from
India and fans of ivory fit for a Duchess,
besides bringing their father safe home,
and best of all perhaps, a sweetheart. And
so it often happens in real life the unexpect-
ed happens. Love begets love it is said and
so out of the love of doing good to others
and promoting happiness at Christmas time
that intense soul-love is sometimes born or
created that unites two happy hearts in a
mutual bond of blessing that lasts forever.
In this iustance. Clara married the honest
country lad whom Edith described as being
always at home year in and year out, and
Edith the sailor who stayed away year in
and year out, and both were satisfied, and
although this story is only a simple sketch
out of real life it is founded on facts, and
“truth is stranger than fiction.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
MARY ANN BAINBRIDGE HAZEN.
    MARY ANN BAINBRIDGE HAZEN.
	Mary Ann Bainbridge Hazen of Brighton
ward, Salt Lake City who died on the 27th day of
November, 1896, of typhoid fever, after an illness
of several weeks, was the daughter of Samuel
Bainbridge and Elizabeth Allan and was born
Nov. 28, 1830, in New Castle on Tyne, England.
	She embraced the Gospel in her native city,
being baptized by Elder Robert Gillies in 1852,
and became the wife of Robert Hazen August 29,
853, they being married by Elder Thomas
Squires
	She emigrated to America accompanied by her
husband and an infant daughter and her aged
mother, leaving Newcastle for Liverpool on the
28th of March, 1855, sailing from there on the 31st
of that month in the ship Juventa, to Philadelphia,
arriving May 15th, sojourning in Pennsylvania
and in Bellville, Illinois where her mother died.
	In March 1859 she with her husband and child
left that town and took passage on a steamer
from St. Louis to Florence, and left Florence for
Salt Lake City on July 1859 in Feramorz Little's
company, arriving in the valley Sep. 10, and
locating two days later across the Jordan river
where her home has been continuously until her
demise.
	She was the mother of seven children, two sons
and five daughters, four daughters having pre-
ceded her to the Spirit World.
	On Oct 16,1896 her younger son who is now
laboring in Indian Territory, Mission, took leave
of his mother on her bed of sickness from which
she never arose, but sent a message to him with
her blessing and hoped he would fill a good mis-
sion. She also leaves 16 grandchildren.
	Sister Hazen was an earnest, quiet, humble and
unassuming worker in the Church, ever cheerful,
kind and very hopeful but never complaining.
The children will miss Grandma Hazen, as she
was called.
	She filled honorably the position of President
over the Relief Society of Brighton ward for 21
years, having been appointed Sep. 2 1875. She
also acted in the capacity of a Sunday school
teacher for many years.
	She died surrounded by her sorrowing kindred
and kind friends, and filled with the hope of a
glorious resurrection and exaltation and eternal
life.
                                     ROBERT HAZEN.
    P. S. Sister Hazen was charitable, merciful
and tender-hearted, a true friend and she was
gifted with an exceptionally fine voice in singing ;
she loved her religion and was faithful to the
meetings; she dearly loved the EXPONENT.
								EDITOR.
			RESOLUTIONS.
    RESOLUTIONS of respect to our departed Presi-
dent Maty Ann Hazen, adopted by the remaining
officers and members of the Relief Society of
Brighton ward of Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	WHEREAS, An alwise Providence has called
from our midst to a brighter sphere our beloved
President and co-laborer in the Relief Society of
Brighton ward, be it,
	RESOLVED That in the demise of our sister we
have lost an unassuming, humble and willing
worker, also
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory from
the fact that God and her religion were foremost
of any worldly aims; that we do esteem her
faithful labors and devotion to the Gospel as


worthy of emulation by every member of our
society; further
	RESOLVED, That we sincerly sympathize wlth
the bereaved husband, children and friends in the
loss of a faithful wife, loving mother, sincere
friend and true Latter-day Saint; again
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions and obituary
be placed upon the records of the Relief Society
of Brighton ward, a copy sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and one to each member of the
family.
			OTTILIE M. SCHENFELD.
			LYDIA J. BROWN, 
						Counselors.
		HORTENSE M. JONES, Ass't. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	[To the memory of Sister Martha Jasper who
	departed this life Sep. 8, 1896.]
	DECEASED was born Feb. 14, 1821 in Lambeter,
Breckenshire, England. She embraced the
Gospel between forty and fifty years ago,
emigrated to Utah twenty-three years ago last
July and settled on a ranch near Utah Lake where
she resided until four years ago last May, her
husband having died a few months previous, she
was left a lone widow. Her friends persuaded
her to sell the ranch and move into Goshen
where she has resided with Mrs. Elizabeth Davis
until her demise.
	She has been a very faithful and energetic
teacher and member of our Relief Society for the
last four years, and a liberal donater. She was
very zealous in working and having work per-
formed for her progenitors in the Manti Temple,
and she spent a great deal of means in that direc-
tion, and if she had made a proper will the princi-
pal part of her property would have gone to the
Manti Temple.
	WHEREAS, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to take from our midst our sister and co worker,
we realize our loss is her gain. [-]herefore be it,
	RESOLVED, That we emulate her energy in the
performance of her duty as a teacher, and her
zeal in laboring for her dead, for her whole soul
was in the work of God. Therefore be it,
	RESOLVED, That we record a copy of th
resolutions upon our records and send one to
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication
						ELLISON GOURLEY,
						AMELIA GOURLEY, 
						LUCY TAYLOR,
								Committee


[Column 1]
CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	[HERE is a specimen of porcelain made
in Syracuse, N. Y., called Flowing blue,
to me much handsomer than Delft.]
	[Here is another made in East Liverpool;
this is called the Lotus ware, as fine as the
finest French ware.] 
	[Here is a specimen of Beleek made by
the Ceramic Art Co., Trenton, N. Y. It is
as fine as any Irish Beleek that was ever
made. There are many other factories that
make as fine goods as these, so we need not
cross the Atlantic to find the beautiful por-
celain.]
	That there is a brilliant future in store
for the Ceramic art of America may be in-
ferred from the rapid stride forward it has
made. With a limitless wealth of material,
gifted with enterprise, originality and taste,
the American artist can look forward to
taking his place with the best the world
has produced. 
	There are many obstacles in the way,
however, with a heavy protective tariff
our manufacturer is barely able to compete
with the foreign cheap labor producer.
The import duty does not cover the greater
expense of working in this country.
Statistics show that in labor and material
the American manufacturer labors under
the disadvantage of about 100 per cent. In
works of art the disadvantage is vastly in-
creased. The makers of the tariff make a
distinction of only 10 per cent between

[Column 2]
white granite and decorated porcelain; a
difference of 5 per cent is drawn between
decorated and undecorated porcelain. Art
work is benefited to the extent of ⅛th. more
than plain goods. Art is less protected
than workmanship, since the cost of skilled
and unskilled labor is greater here than in
Europe. Consequently there is little to in-
duce manufacturers to turn out art unless
some profit can be drawn from the reputa-
tion it brings. I do not intend to discuss
the question of protection versus free trade,
I only speak of the tariff to show the diffi-
culty of building up something worthy to
be called American art. To illustrate.—A
porcelain plate was made at Greenpoint,
N.Y., on a challenge. It was a copy of a
plate in the possession of Mr. George Luck
by whom it was purchased at the sale of the
effects of Louis Phillippe. The plate was
from Sevres, decorated chiefly in gold.
The Greenpoint copy was made to test the
question whether American decoration
might not in time be made to equal the
Sevres. Those who saw both had great
difficulty in distinguishing the original from
the copy made and many could not do
so without examining the ware. The
challenge was fully met, and should it
be asked why such work could not be done
here continually, the reply is, the state of
the market so far as the demand for Ameri-
can art is concerned, is such that prices will
barely cover the cost of production. Presi-
dent Smith at the convention of Potters
Association, says foreign clays can be put
down cheaper in New York than Penn.
clays by 15 per cent. Expense is not the
only drawback. It is a fact that while 
native manufacturers advance and find
ready reception, native art must force its
way to recognition; its first honors must
be won abroad; it must bear a foriegn
stamp to be accepted in the home of its
birth.
	This is so good a market that foreign
artists send their works here, sure of a wel-
come. Competition by an American
though a superior is difficult.
	A foreign artist comes branded as a gen.
ius and home critics hesitate to give a ver-
dict in favor of their own countryman; they
lack confidence in their own judgment and
prefer to take another’s opinion than give
their own. On one side is the work of one
who has won praise in Europe; on the
other that of one who makes an appeal to
their own judgment. Under such condi-
tions the American artist is discouraged.
	French art is to a Frenchman the finest
in the world; Englishmen support English
art because it is their own. They are satis-
fied with it if all the world wonder at the
thing they cherish; it is good to them and
that is enough. American art may be
good, equal to the best, but it is American.
Receiving no notice the artist loses the
benefit of criticism and concludes that his
own people complement themselves by be-
lieving that no work of art can be produced
among them.
	This may seem overdrawn but facts are
eloquent. It has been said Americans take
pride in their manufactures; that of pottery
is an exception. Almost everywhere
granite ware can be seen bearing as mark
the royal arms of England and with the
mottoes in full Uni soit qui mal y pense,
which in this case seems to be very appro-
priate. The ware may have been made in
Trenton or anywhere else in America, but
the dealer will not buy it without the

[Column 3]
English mark. It is a strange mark for an
American potter, and a sad and shameful
comment on American flunkeyism.
	Inquiry brings out the fact that their
customers look for the English mark and
finding it buy; thus there is no question of
superiority but simply of a name. In the
matter of porcelain, that made in this
country is sold every day for French, Ger-
man and English. No objection is made
to the finish, durability or decoration, but
its parentage must be concealed in order to
sell it. Art grows slowly, especially in a
country so largely commercial as America,
so when it does make its appearance it
should be treated with respect to hasten its
growth; America is in this respect an ex-
ception to the nations of the earth.
	In France, Germany, Prusia, Russia, Italy
China and England the Ceramic art receiv-
ed the support of Government and w[-]althy
patrons. In America such support is
neither given nor required, only apprecia-
tion is desired. In a Republic the people
are the rulers and patrons. Prejudice in
art is the end of criticism; prejudice in
commerce is suicidal. The materials for
making every kind of ware are found in
this country. As early as 1766 American
clays were taken to England, and the great
Wedgewood at that time, more than a hun-
dred years ago, expressed fears for the
earthern wares of England, because of some
“new pot makers,” as he expressed it, in
South Carolina. It is to say the least
amusing to think that after one hundred
years of pottery we still patronize
Europe.
	The greatest progress in making porce-
lain in America has been made since 1860,
and now there are more than one thousand
potteries in the United States. The capital
invested by the forty firms of the American
Potters Association is $4.000,000. One of
the oldest firms the Robertsons, have mas-
tered the secret of the Howland process of
applying colors upon unbaked clay and
have produced some fine specimens.
	Thus it will be seen that we neither lack
material or ability to cope with the best
foreign productions, all that is necessary is
for the people of this country to divert
themselves of the idea that a foreign stamp
is necessary to make a thing good, and
wear the mantle of their Americanism as
proudly and as independently as a Roman
wears his toga.
	In this brief paper upon Ceramics much
has been omitted that would be interesting
to the students of porcelain, but I could
only touch upon different points that have
led us down through the centuries, from
the sun-dried bricks of Egypt to the beauti-
ful porcelain of Greenpoint, N. Y.
						S. L. M.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

A Happy New Year to All our Friends and Patrons.	


Vol. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1897.	No. 13


CONTENTS:

	The Modern Esther—L. M. H. National
American Annual Meeting—Rachel Foster Avery.
Leaves From My Journal—Kim. U. W. P. C.—
Orielle Curtis Sec. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam.
An Offering Of Love—M. A. Ball. S. L. Co.
W. S. A.—Cassie C. Newman, Sec. A Curious
Prophecy. The Woman’s Congress In Berlin—
Eliza Ichenhauser. Notes And News.
	EDITORIAL:—Home Industries And Home Pro-
ductions. Editorial Notes. Holiday Weddings.
A Quiet Home Wedding. Holiday Wedding
Bells. Another Holiday Wedding.
	POETRY:—New Years’ Day—H. W. Naisbett.
The Year Of Jubilee—R. M. F. Utah—Orielle
Curtis. A Rosebud. After All—Hyacinth. Un-
requited—L. M. H.


NEW YEAR’S DAY.

SALT LAKE CITY 1897.
SOFTLY the twilight gathers,
	The curtains of evening fall,
The Sun had gone down in splendor,
	And crimsoned the mountains tall.
His train o’er the Western heavens, 
	Illumed with a roseate glow;
As if’t were a benediction,
	That the Lord to man would show.
The day had been ideal,—
	One such as the Poet’s love;
As sweet as if April’s angel,
	Had lured it from above;
Strange for the seasons greeting—
	The first of the opening year,
Suggestive, or full of promise,
	As welcome without a tear.
In the air was a Sabbath spirit,—
	The spirit of lovelit peace,
Care had its pinions folded,
	Had given the world release—
As rare as are Angels visits,
	Perhaps they were hovering nigh.
Unseen by the common senses,
	But felt by a keener tie ?
The earth wore a snow-white mantle
	From valley to mountain peak,
Which sun-kissed wept and melted,
	As’t were when the spring first speaks.
I hailed the day at its dawning,
	I loved it as on it flew,
And its evening shadows filled me,
	With dreams that may yet come true.
’Twas an omen of good most surely,
	A portent of happier times,
For the poor—the toiling millions,
	Who greeted the New Year’s chimes;
Work is the needed blessing,
	And pay when ’tis earned at last, 
That the smiling wife and children,
	May forget the fearful past!
And surely the morning dawneth,
	The break of the day is nigh,
I hail it while this day’s shadows,
	Creep over the starlit sky.
When this year’s curtain falleth,
	If the Christ hath not appeared,
’Tis that much nearer toiler,
	Let thy waiting heart be cheered.
				H. W. NAISBETT.


THE YEAR OF JUBILEE.

ALL hail! the year of jubilee
	Proud Utah sends thee greeting
The hills and vales thy welcome ring
	The streams with joy are leaping.
A royal time is being planned
	Expressly for thy pleasure;
Speak thou the word—and earth shall yield
	Of stores full bounteous measure.
And we will pour it at thy feet
	That thou may’st feast thy vision
On wealth and products of that soil
	Men once held in derision.
For scarcely fifty years ago
	These broad and fertile valleys
Were sterile, drear and desolate
	None dwelt here but the savage.
Come clamber up the mountain side
	View hamlet, field and garden
Look up the treasures of the hills
	Our pride then thou wilt pardon.
Glance now thine eye on yonder lake.
	Behold that sunset golden
Where fleecy, crimson-tinted clouds
	The snow-clad peaks enfolding.
O, wondrous change the years have wrought
	Since our gallant pioneers 
Braved countless dangers fearing not
	But with the eye of Love
They saw the barren wilderness,
	Would blossom, bloom and flourish;
With cattle on a thousand hills,
	The meek and poor to nourish.
Here they unfurled the stars and stripes
	An ensign to the nations,* 
Then bowed in reverence to Him
	Whose arm was their salvation.
And now in this their jubliee,
	We witness their predictions
Fulfilled, applaud them for their faith
	And honor their convictions.
All blessing on their silvered heads
	Though few with us remaining,
A mighty monument they’ve reared
	Our lasting homage claiming.
Ring the bells for ninety-seven
	Let’s have a great rejoicing;
Forgiveness, love and peace abound
	The ancient custom voicing.
Praise Him who led us to these vales,
	With song and acclamation,
And give those grand old pioneers,
	A glorious ovation.
							R. M. F.
*Ensign peak.


[Column 1]
THE MODERN ESTHER.

	SHE has come, no mistake about that.
And she has come to the kingdom too, and
reigns a queen. The world has had its age
of bronze, its age of iron and of gold, some
affirm that this is the age of paper, others
call it the age of silver, but this is pre-em-
inently the age of woman. Deborah has
arisen, Joan of Arc has taken the field—and
Esther has mounted the throne.

[Column 2]
Men may be reluctant and
must of stern necessity bow to the inevi-
table. Women are pressing their way into
almost every profession and into places once
monopolized by men. They have long
been demanding equal opportunities of
higher education, and now the foremost
universities in the world are rejoicingly
welcoming them. And we have not been
informed of any calamitous consequences
following which the pessimistic prophets
predicted. Woman cannot get away from
herself, and so long as she is what she is
we have no grave apprehensions that the
relation of the sexes will be radically alter-
ed. Yet without unsexing herself or
violating any of the cherished proprieties,
she is undoubtedly coming to the front.
A quaint old preacher commenting upon
the saying of our Lord “She hath done
what she could,” very pithily added,
“Yes and she has done what she thought
she couldn’t.”
	An overwhelming majority of church
members all over the civilized world are
women and the great bulk of the work is
done by the women; the visitation of
the sick, the clothing of the poor, the teach-
ing of the Sunday and mission schools,
industrial school work, Hospital work,
homes for the friendless, refuges for erring
women, orphanages, all manner of chari-
table institutions. If woman was foremost
in the fall, she is first and foremost in every
enterprise that has for its object the uplift-
ing of humanity and the glory of God.
Women are banding themselves together
for assisting in the world’s evangelization
both at home and abroad, organizing
training schools for the purpose of sending
out Bible readers by the hundreds, raising
money by the hundred thousand, and
thousands have administered these affairs 
with an energy and ability that has fairly
put the men to shame. It is evident that
the Great All Father is calling out all the
reserves and marshalling them for the last
decisive conflict,—the millions of stalwart
men, the women a mighty host, and the
badged and bannered young people flushed
with enthusiasm and girded with high re-
solve for noble deeds. All hail to all of
these moving armies! and if any pessimis-
tic looker on is afraid that somebody will
go too far, let him fall into line and begin
marching on, keeping step with time and it
will not be very long before he will find
himself fearing that nobody will go half far
enough.
						L. M. H.


MRS. BELVA A. LOCKWOOD, of Wash-
ington, who was one of the delegates from
the United States to the second Internation-
al Congresses held at Geneva, Switzerland,
in September last, to consider the adminis-
tration of public charities and the protection
of children, has made an instructive report
to the Department of State.
	MISS MARY F. FIELD, a daughter of the
late Eugene Field, is making a beginning
as a public reader. She reads only from
her father’s writings.


WOMANS EXPONENT


NATIONAL AMERICAN ANNUAL
MEETING.

	THE Executive Committee of the Nation-
al American Woman’s Suffrage Association,
voting by correspondence, has decided upon
Des Moines, Iowa, as the place for holding
its annual convention for 1897.
	The dates are Wednesday, Jan 27, to
Saturday, Jan 29, inclusive.
	Des Moines has hospitably arranged to
entertain the Businesss Committee of the
N. A. W. S. A., and the President of each
State organization in attendance, or her
proxy. To all regularly appointed delegates
from State organizations, they offer lodging
and breakfast without cost, and have
arranged to have dinner and tea served at a
nominal price in the building in which the
Convention will be held.
	It is hoped that taking the Convention
thus into the middle West, we shall have a
large representation from all our State
Associations. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
				Cor. Sec. N. A. W. S. A.
Phila., Pa., Nov. 27, 1896.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

		BOLOGNA, Italy.
		Friday, Dec. 6, 1895.
	Express train via Padua to Venice.
Padua, “Italian Padova,” was founded
according to “Ancient tradition” by
Antenor, the brother-in-law of Priam, and is
famous for its University. Among its
alumni were Savonarola, Tasso, Petrarch
and Galileo, whose statues adorn the Pizza
Vittosia Emanuele.
	The church S. Antonio begun in 1256, is
very imposing with seven domes, and is
rich in paintings, sculptures and works of
Art. The Scuola del Santo has frescoes by
Titian and his pupils. S. Maria dell’
Arena, or Giotto’s chapel contains frescoes
which are among his best works. In one
church is an altar piece by Paul Veronese.
	“Venice in June,” gave our approach
via Adriatic Sea.
	We now approach the city by a railway
bridge more than two miles long, consist-
ing of long embankments and 222 arches,
costing nearly a million dollars.
	We left the cars and entered the gon-
dolas waiting for us, a few moments'
brought us to the Grand Hotel. Although
the winter day was sombre and there were
no singers, the gondola ride and the Medie-
val Palaces were still enchanting.
	We dined, then spent the evening ramb-
ling through the quaint alleys and on the
Grand Square of St. Mark, the pigeons
were so numerous and tame, it was difficult
to walk and not step upon them.
	This square is the centre of all that is
loveliest in Venice. On the E. side is St.
Marks Church, the N. the Procuratie
Vecchi, with the clock tower, (La Torre
dell’ Orologio,) built in 1496, the hours
are struck on a bell by two bronze figures.
The Piazzetta is a small square opening to
the South near the angle it makes with the
Piazza, is the Campanile and on the E. side
is the Ducal Palace, on the W. the Library
and Mint, to the seaward the two columns
of granite one bearing the winged lion of St.
Mark, the other the statue of St. Theodore.
St. Mark was built in the 11th Cent.,
Byzantine style with Gothic additions of the
14th Cent. and Renaissance alterations of
the 17th Cent. Above the portal are the

[Column 2]
bronze horses which Constantine carried
from Rome to Constantinople, whence Zeno
broght back in 1205; they were taken to
Paris by Nap. in 1797 and restored to Venice
in 1815. The church has a great dome in
thecentre and four smaller ones crown the
arms of the cruciform structure the Mosaics
of the exterior and interior cover more than
an acre, are on a background of gold gild-
ing and are very beautiful, the bronze and
rich marbles are splendid.
	It is impossible to describe the Ducal
Palace. We entered by the Scala dei
Giganti or Giants staircase from the court-
yard. The interior is a rich gallery of
Venetian Art, the great Council Hall con-
tains portraits of 76 Doges and Tintorretto’s
Paradise, the Palace is connected on the E.
side with prison (Le Prigione) by the
Bridge of Sighs, so called because when the
prisoners crossed over for their trial, if
innocent they left the Palace by the
front door, if guilty were placed in the dun-
geons below and never again crossed the
bridge.
	Saturday, Dec. 7—Early morning found
us in our gondolas to see the Old Palaces
situated on the Grand Canal. Our hotel
was once the Palace Terro (14th Cent.) and
the Palace Tini Wimpffen, and next to it
is the pretty Palazzo Contarini Tasau,
known as the Palace of Desdemona, the
Palace Mocenigo was occupied by Byron.
	The Arsenal has a gateway of Renaissance
workmanship. “Sharp and expressive in
its ornamental sculpture,” in front are
four Greek lions brought from the Piraens
in 1687, the museum contains old arms,
armor and instruments of torture.
	We visited the factory which is very
interesting. The rest of the day we de-
voted to churches—that of the Jesuits, the
interior is curious, the walls being covered with
imitation of drapery in white marble inlaid
with green, it contains Titians Martyrdom
of St Laurence. St. Sebastine is famous for
pictures by P. Veronise who is buried here.
St. Rocco has pictures by Tintoretto and
Scuola di San Rocco is one of the three
most precious buildings in Italy, the others
being the Sistine Chapel at Rome and the
Campo Santo at Pisa.
	Sunday, Dec. 8—Attended Church San
Marco, the sermon was no doubt eloquent
but could not understand a word, the music
was fine, the organ filled the Church with
rich, full tones. After lunch went to the
Scotch Presbyterian Church but the Pastor’s
wife stood at the door saying, Dr. Robert-
son was ill and there would be no service,
she gave us her card, inviting us to tea on
Monday, saying on that day they received
strangers, and if they felt lonely might
make or meet friends, in a strange land all
the world was kin. Was sorry not to attend
but left Venice on that day.
	Monday, Dec. 9—Early morning train
for Milan via Verona, 72 miles from Venice.
On our other Tour we stopped at Verona.
The churches are very fine mostly Gothic,
the Cathedral is of the 14th Cent. and con-
tains an assumption by Titian and S.
Fermo Maggiore 14th Cent., has a carved
roof of larch wood and in one chapel a fine
altar-piece by Caroto, other churches con-
tain valuable pictures by Tintoretto, P.
Veronise and other artists. Our desire was
to see in this old city the tomb of Juliet.
A rude Sarcophagus was kept in the garden
of an old Franciscan Monastery on the right
bank of the Aolige, the house of the Capu-
lets is on the street San Sabastino.

[Column 3]
	From Verona to Milan is 93 miles. When
I came before took the other route, Turin
to Milan. That road passes through
Novara near which the battle was fought,
and through the memorable battle field of
Magenta. This is the most interesting
route. We pass the Castles of the Montec-
chi, the Montagues of Romeo and Juliet
and Lake Garda, near and toward this was
fought the battle of Solferino, 24th of June,
1859, Austrians defeated by Nap. III.
Saw the house at Villafranca, where the
treaty between the French and Austrian
Emperors was signed July 11, 1859. The
City of Milan, Capitol of Lombardy, is en-
tered through a beautiful arch. When last
here it was warm, the ladies were out on
the streets with lace veils or shawls draped
on their heads something like the Spanish
style. It is a walled city, the interior of
the walls laid out with gardens and planted
with trees, the streets are elegantly paved,
it is a pleasure to walk on them, the foot
paths next the houses are six feet wide of
smooth granite. We drove about the city
and to the suppressed Monastery of St.
Maria delle Grazie, to see Da Vincis Last
Supper. The painting is on the wall and
much defaced as the church was once used
as a stable in time of war; in spite of which
you can see how beautiful was the painting,
although of the 14th Cent. the beautiful
colors still remain. The Church St. Am-
brose founded in the 14th Cent. in its pre-
sent form to the 12th is most interesing.
Here the old Lombard kings received the
“Iron Crowns,” the frescoes and mosaics
are beautiful it has a golden altar-front.
The Brera, a Palace of Science and Art con-
tains in the picture gallery Raphael’s
Sposalizio, or the marriage of the Virgin.
Next we visited the Cathedral with its
delicate tracery and forest of pinnacles, built
in the form of a Latin cross, its interior is
490 feet in length, 185 feet in width, with
nave 155 feet in height, the dome is 220 ft.
in height from the pavement to the top of
the tower 360 feet. The roof has 98 Gothic
turrets, the exterior is adorned with 4,400
marble statues, its beautiful tower and
spires are all surmounted by a statue, the
nterior has double clustered pillars, lofty
arches, niches in the walls filled with figures
and grand monuments. The scene with
the sun shining through the magnificent
stained windows and rose window is strik-
ingly beautiful, just that wavy beautiful
effect of light and shade one gets in a for-
est.
	Among the treasures is a Veil from the
true cross, a silver altar, solid silver
statues, Bibles with the covers filled with
rare jewels, robes of cloth of gold and cloth
of silver, rare laces and wealth untold.
One room is nearly all silver. A Bishop of
Milan lies there in a crystal casket with
gold trimmings, a screen of gold and silver
covers this. He is robed in cloth of gold
with crown and scepter, crosses and rings
of dimaonds, rubies, emeralds and sapphires.
Upon a silver table the candles, and around
the room in solid silver bas-relief is his his-
tory from the cradle to the grave, while up-
on all the chairs is his monogram in silver.
We ascended to the roof of the Cathedral
from which we had superb views of the
plains of Lombardy and the snowy Alps.
To morrow we say farewell to sunny Italy.
							KIM.
	BARONESS HIRSCH has given $250,000 to
endow a home for Hebrew consumptives
in England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
UTAH.

STILL shall New England classic hills be dear,
Where’er the children of the pilgrims go; 
Her sacred name our hearts shall still revere
Her story fill us with responsive glow.
Where smooth Potomac’s placid waters flow, 
Virginia’s stately homes in beauty rise—
Beloved for him who taught the world to know
His country's freedom is the patriot's prize,
Not dearly bought, though won with costliest
	sacrifice.

The downy peaches waft their fruity breath
From sun-kissed orchards of the Delaware;
And flowers that know no winter’s icy death,
Garland the plains of Florida the fair;
’Neath California’s skies of beauty rare,
Her yellow poppies nod and roses twine;
Sweet scent of orange-blooms perfumes the air,
And amber clusters load the fragrant vine—
Each sphere of chalice filled with sweet, trans-
	lucent wine.

Fair was the heritage our father’s bought,
Stretching o’er hill and vale, from sea to sea;
Each new-born state some separate charm has
	brought,
Some grace distinctive, as its birth-right fee.
From Maine’s cold pine-woods, where the winds
	blow free,
And whistling, rivet tyrant winter’s chains.
The sunny rice-fields, where the bird and bee,
In slumberous tones, chant summer’s sweet re-
	frains.
Love’s loyal faith, sincere, each part the best
	maintains.

Let others boast their prairies spreading wide
Whose lonesome plains the far horizon meet;
Still let them paint with fond exultant pride,
Their miles of corn-fields and their waving wheat;
Or, let them tell of vast woods’ dim retreat,
With vaulted arches thick with evergreen,
Where vines run wild and mosses’ velvet feet
Climb o’er each tangled bough—a living screen
Whose solemn gloom of shade no sun-ray falls be-
	tween.

How would our eyes grow dim o’er those broad
	plains,
With home-sick longing for our russet hills!
Nor could we bear the depths where twilight 
	reigns,
Whose deep recesses cloistered silence fills.
Dearer to us the cliff whose grandeur thrills,
With its mute eloquence, the heart’s unrest;
Dearer the water-falls and leaping rills,
And canyons wild of Utah’s caverned breast,
Though other scenes be fair, we love our Utah
	best.

As when through leagues of blistering, shimmer,
	ing sand,
Its toilsome way the caravan has made,
Sees o’er the waste the cool, green palm-tree
	stand,
And rapturous, hails their bliss of restful shade—
And as the ship by tempest long delayed,
Beaten by storm-waves, shattered by the blast,
Gains the sure harbor, and, with anchor weighed,
Rests on the peaceful billow, safe at last,
Happy in perils shunned and dangers overpast—

So with their faces toward the golden west,
Through weary leagues, toil on the pilgrim train ; 
Storm-worn, but dauntless in their weary quest,
Cross the broad river and the treeless plain,
Till Utah’s rock-built height their footsteps gain.
Circled by cliffs, like some great eagle’s nest,
Lies a lone valley—nature’s wild domain :
'Here," says their chieftain, “here may Zion
	rest;
Here shall God’s temple stand, and here His
	Saints be blest."

[Column 2]
As on New England’s cold, surf-beaten shore,
The earlier pilgrims built devotion’s shrine;
’Mid the loud anthem of the ocean’s roar,
To great Jehovah tuned their swelling line,
And saw His love o’er stern, hard duty shine—
So knelt these toil-worn  souls—faith’s struggling
	band—
Asking in earnest prayer, the power divine
To shield them in the wild, waste, barren land.
And guide them in their toil up heaven’s direct-
	ing hand.

The world is richer by such pioneers;
Faith, through their toil, its golden fruitage sees,
And life’s hard front in softer light appears;
That the slow-moving world may walk at ease,
Truth builds her highways broad, by such as
	these.
They found a desert—made a garden fair,
Where luscious fruits bend low the clustering
	trees,
And flowers of every tint perfume the air,
Where towns and cities broad and equal blessing
	share.
I’ve heard a story of the days of old,
Told by Ute warriors when the pale-face  came—
How long ago a spirit, overbold,
With mighty Manitou made rival claim
With silver, gold and gems of every name,
He built proud turrets on the Wasatch range;
But the Great Spirit from his mount of flame.
With thunder-bolts of fire and lightnings strange,
Made walls and tower and throne to shapeless
	ruins change.
I know not if the tale be strictly true;
But yet our Utah mountains strangely show
Bright lines of yellow gold, and still we view
Masses of silver, heaped and strewn as though
From some vast silver temple’s overthrow—
Marbles and precious ore that might bedeck
The halls of monarchs with resplendent glow—
Jasper and syenite and jeweled speck—
As though a world of mines had burst in plen-
	teous wreck.

Fair land of marvels! Where Aladdin’s lamp
And Ali Baba’s treasure-cave are ours!
Where giant force has left his Titan stamp,
And genial nature gemmed her vales with
	flowers!
Thy gushing spring shall send refreshing
	showers,
Till all thy waste lands ring with harvest glee.
The weary thousands seek the restful bowers
Where health springs, jocund, from thy island
	sea,
Thy glad streams turn the wheels of strong-
	armed industry.
In thy young days thy horoscope we draw,
And stars auspicious tell of fates benign.
Symbol of order, industry and law,
The murmurous hive is emblem fitly thine.
Still ’round that hive thy sego lilies twine—
Manna for man and nectar cup for bee;
Born in the mountain where the sunbeams shine.
Its peerless bloom is type of liberty;
Be loyal like thy bees, and, like thy lilies, free.

Where from the heights the mountain torrents
	spring,
The eagle builds aloft her craggy nest,
Meets the new morning, poised on steady wing.
And soars through ether from the topmost
	crest—
Thy eagle’s flight be thine, oh, Utah blest
In that, from earliest days, thy children stand
With equal power to seek the highest, best,
And noblest; knowing thy impartial hand
Fetters no God-given soul in all thy favored land.

Onward and upward! of the sister states
Youngest; but gifted with a priceless dower!
Fortune waits, knocking at thy opening gates;
Press to the front in thine auspicious hour!

[Column 3]
Give to the world the best work in thy power:
Reach to each noble cause a helping hand;
And should dark clouds above the nation lower,
Rise in thy might, for God and native land,
Wave wide thy stars and stripes, and with them
	conquering stand.
						ORIELLE CURTIS.


A ROSEBUD.
		  _____
Tenderly, lovingly.
		Lay it away,
		Where the light of day,
		Sheds no kindly ray,
		On its bright array,
		Now faded and gray,
		Lay it away,
Carefully, silently.
Thoughtfully, hopefully,
Lay it to rest,
		For its tender breast,
		By a thorn was pressed, 
		That pierced the crest, .
		Of its petal’d nest
		Lay it to rest,
Peacefully, quietly.
Tearfully, feelingly,
		Over it weep; 
		For a soul doth sleep,
		in its grave so deep,
		Where no eye can peep,
		And no hand can reap, 
		Over it weep,
Mournfully, soothingly.
Watchfully, willingly,
		Guard it with care; 
		’Twas a life so fair, 
		Yielding fragrance rare,
		That this world so bare,
		Will forever wear.
		Guard it with care,
Faithfully, sacredly.
					Hyacinth
Year’s Eve, ’96.


AFTER ALL.
AETER the day has sung its song of gladness.
	After the night has told its tale of woe,
After the bird's sweet notes have turned to sad-
ness,
After the breeze has breathed its music low,
		Think of me, pray for me,
		And of thee, only thee,
		My thought shall be,
		After all, after all.
After the flow'rs refuse to yield their fragrance,
	After the dew no more its mantles spread,
After the sun has ceased to shed its radiance,
	After the joys of springtime long have fled,
		Leave me not, pain o'er fraught
		For I've sought, only sought.
		Thy sincere thought,
		After all, after all.
After the bloom of youth's forever banished,
	After the hours have lengthened into years,
After my hopes like melting snows have vanished,
	After my heart has dried its well of tears,
		Still trusting, and hoping,
		Still waiting, and loving,
		To thee I cling,
		After all, after all.
			HYACINTH.
New Year's Day, '97.


LADY HENRY SOMERSET has sent a
London lady doctor and two trained nurses
to Bulgaria to help to care for the Armenian 
refugees, who are in great need.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 ots. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.
SALT LAKR CITY, JANUARY I, 1897.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. I


[Column 1]
HOME INDUSTRIES AND PRODUC-
TIONS.

	THE one main subject in which the peo-
ple of Utah (and we speak advisedly when
we say the women of Utah) should be
specially interested at the present time is
home industries, and foremost among these
is sericulture. We are fully aware that
there are some women who have seemingly
strained every nerve to raise cocoons, and
have become more or less if not quite dis-
couraged because there seemed no remuner-
ation, but there is now a good prospect for
the future in this direction. There has
been a commission of five persons appointed
by the Governor to look after the matter,
and they are reliable women who will do
the very utmost that can be done to further
the silk interest in Utah; but it remains
with the people to do their share and to
furnish the material. Enough has been
accomplished here in the raising of silk to
prove that it might with some fostering and
encouragement become a profitable industry.
	It is of little use to sit down and com-
plain of hard times and lack of employment
when the state abounds in resources that
might by diligent perseverance and united
effort be developed into paying products.
Looking over the ground, silk really seems
the easiest of all the industries to manage.
The eggs being procured, the cocoons can be
raised wherever food for the worms
can be obtained.
	Mulberry trees consequently leaves are
very abundant in many parts of the state
and especially so in Salt Lake City and
County, and it is not too soon even now for
those who wish to engage in sericulture to
commence planning for it.
	It is not at all unlikely that there will an
experiment station established here in the
near future, and even if not, silk raised and
reeled at home, if the work is first class can
always find a market. The reels for this
purpose are small and light and the work
is very simple and easy to learn. It does
not require the time nor incur the expense
that dress-making and millinery and many
other things do. It is said by those who
have had some experience with the silk
worms that this employment is quite fasci-
nating. At any rate the women of Utah
have always believed silk raising might be
made a permanent business success here,
because the climate and all other conditions
are particularly favorable.
	In places where there are not mulberry

[Column 2]
trees the people should procure the cuttings
early and set them out in rows by the
ditches, and the young, tender leaves are
said to be best and make a finer fabric than
when the leaves are old and tough. The
silk worms are more fond of crisp, tender
leaves naturally, and the leaves are more
easily gathered from the young shrubs than
from the trees.
	We shall be very glad to have correspon-
dence sent upon this subject for publication,
from those who have had experience and
who can give valuable information in this
class of work.

	Another very important subject we as a
people should consider and try to under-
stand is the Kindergarten; and to the
mind of the writer the training received by
means of this simple but wonderful method
of instruction will be conducive to all home
industries, as well as to those gentle and
attractive qualities that adorn domestic life
and embellish the home. We hear constant
ly all depends upon the mothers and the
home, and that is the mother’s province,
whether the children are well trained to be-
come useful members of society and good
citizens; if so much rests upon mothers,
then they too should have a little help in 
the way of suggestion, and the kindergar-
ten gives just this needed assistance- Moth-
ers in general are overworked, their strength
is more than absorbed by the little ones, a 
kindergarten teacher takes the little ones
for a short time and the mother not only
has the great relief of feeling the children
are cared for, but knows they are being
taught to think, observe and act properly.
	If parents could only realize how advan-
tageous the kindergarten training is to the
child, it would not be long before it would
be introduced into all the public schools.
But the growth of sentiment on this sub-
ject seems very slow, and very little has
really been done to reach the entire people.
If mothers would visit these schools and
see and hear the children, they would be-
come interested and enter into the spirit of
the teaching; they never can by standing
afar off and denouncing it. Some very
strenuous exertions have been and are being
made by a few to start these schools, and a
membership to the Association of fifty
cents a year from individual members to
assist in the work; but the people are slow
to respond; and yet what is as much conse-
quence as the children’s proper training?
Habits of industry are gained in this way,
and these are essential to a good life. The
old saying that Satan finds mischief for idle
hands, is true; and in a community where
children abound as they do throughout
these valleys, it is important that measures
be taken to give the children upon the
streets, the benefit of such training as will
keep them from vice, and help them to earn
a livelihood as soon as they are old enough
to get employment; nothing will help them
so much in this regard as kindergarten
training, and it is not tiresome, but on the
contrary a kind of pleasure, so that the child
does not get weary, nor dislike the school-
room.

	ON Monday, January 11, the Utah Legis-
lature will meet in this City and something
new under the sun, Solomon to the con-
trary notwithstanding—Utah will have
the first women Senator in the United
States, although Wyoming and Colorado
have had woman Legislators in the House,

[Column 3]
women Judges and women on juries.
it is a distinction of which Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon may justly be proud. In
the House will be Mrs. Eurithe La Barthe,
of Salt Lake County and Mrs. Sarah A.
Anderson, of Weber County, all active and
comparatively young women, therefore it is
only reasonable to expect that some good
suggestions will be made and effectual work
in such interests as pertain to women and
the family especially.
 	In Millard Co. we are informed a wo-
man, Mrs. Delilah K. Olsen, was elected
Co. Recorder by the Democratic party, and
Mrs. Ellen Jakeman Treasurer in Utah Co.:
in Box Elder Co. Miss Fannie Graehl was
elected Co. Recorder by the Republican
party. We are not aware of any other wo-
men having been elected, but trust that
there are gthers in the state.
	Women have done excellent work in the
Legislature of Colorado, and also in Wyom-
ing and the Superintendant of Public
nstruction in Wyoming is certainly one of
the most brilliant women we have ever had
the pleasure of meeting, Miss Estelle Reel.
Although we do not expect the millennium
to come because women vote, yet we do
hope and anticipate that some change for
the better will ensue, now that women are
on an equal platform with men in legal
matters in the State.


EDITORIAL NOTES
_________________________________
	THE secretaries of Stake organizations of
the Relief Society are hereby officially noti-
fied to send reports for the year r896—not
later than Feb. 1897—to Mrs. E B. Wells
Constitution Building, Salt Lake City
Utah.
	WE are very sorry to be obliged to state
that the Book of Poems which we had
hoped would be issued Christmas has been
unavoidably delayed but will, unless
something unforeseen transpires be ready
in February of this year. We shall be very
glad to receive orders for the book from any
who would like to have a copy, as not
nearly enough subscriptions have been
taken to defray the expense of publish-
ing. The title of the book will be ‘ Mus-
ings and Memories,” Poems by Emmeline
B. Wells, and will contain steel engraving
of the author ; price of cloth binding $1.25
—leather or Art binding (new style) $2.00.
	
	ALL agents of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and all Presidents of Relief Society in all
the several branches throughout the Stakes
of Zion, and others who are interested in
the woman’s paper are most respectfully,
but urgently requested to use their best en-
deavors to further the interests of the EX-
PONENT by striving to increase its circula-
tion, and also to use their influence in
helping to collect back subscriptions,
remembering that the EXPONENT is really
the official organ of the Relief Society, and
contains a complete record of all the General
Conferences of that important organization,
and is the means of communication to all
Stakes of Zion and through them to each
other, besides doing much efficient work
for women in various other ways.


HOLIDAY WEDDINGS.
___________________________________
THERE'S bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
	told, 
When two that are linked in one heavenly tie,


With hearts never changing and brow never
		cold, 
   Love on thro' all ills and love on till they die.”
   It is always pleasant and gratifying to
have young people marry happily, and in
the three weddings noticed here all the
circumstances are favorable and everything
indicates “solid happiness,” if one may
judge by appearances and acquaintance
with the young people. In our belief we
have not only a desire for union here, but
for the eternal marriage in which we most
firmly believe, and undoubtingiy hope that
all the young people in whose marriages we
are so deeply interested may be so happy,
that they may continue throughout the
eternal ages to come.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A QUIET HOME WEDDING.
	“ Love’s History as Life’s is ended not
	By marriage.”
	"Marriage is the life-long miracle,
	The self-begetting wonder, daily fresh."
	At the residence of Hon. and Mrs. I. M.
Sears, Thorndyke, East Waterloo, on Tues-
day, December 29, 1896 at 5.45 p. m.,
Miss Isabel Sears and Mr. Charles William
F. Buchholz were united in marriage.
	On account of Mr. and Mrs. Sears being
detained in Chicago because of the illness
of their daughter Emma, the affair was
quiet and only a few guests, near relatives
were present.
	The parlors were tastefully decorated
with holly and red carnations, symbols of
holiday time, and it is needless to add the
bride was charming in old rose silk trimmed
with chiffon and lace, and carried white
roses. Her uncle, Gen. John Q. Cannon,
gave her away, and her, cousin Bishop
Orson F. Whitney solemnized the marriage,
which made the bride and bridegroom hus-
band and wife. The ceremony was
very impressive and the eloquent words of
the Bishop were like a sweet Psalm set to
music.
	Congratulations and pleasant conversa-
tion followed and at seven p. m. dinner
was announced. The table decorations
were lovely, besides the holly and carna-
tions there were vases of magnificent pink
and white roses, that added enjoyment to
the feast. While the party were still at
table a telegram was received from the
parents of the bride in Chicago, of love,
blessing and congratulations, with regrets
that they could not be present; reference to the
time proved that the dispatch had been written
at almost the exact moment that the cere-
mony of marriage was taking place.
	The party at dinner besides the bride and
bridegroom were Bishop Whitney, Mrs.
E.B. Wells, Gen. John Q. Cannon and
wife, Mr. and Mrs Fred Horne and
daughter (cousins of the bridegroom,) Miss
Sears, the bride’s sister, and two of her
brothers, Eugene and Brenton.
	The evening was very agreeably spent in
conversation and music, vocal and instru-
mental.
‘‘Love; what a volume in a word, an ocean in a
	tear,
A seventh heaven in a glance, a whirlwind in a
	sigh,
The lightning in a touch, a millenium in a moment
What concentrated joy or woe in blest or
	blighted love.”
Mr. Buchholz has been some years in
Utah, though formerly from Wisconsin;
he is at present connected with the Com-
mercial National Bank in this city,
and is well and favorably known in
business and in society here.
	The bride is a Utah girl and is the
grand-daughter on the maternal side of the
late Bishop Newel K. Whitney who was
one of the founders of Utah. Miss Sears is
herself particularly well known not only in
society in Salt Lake, but as her father’s
assistant in the Chamber of Commerce
when he was Secretary of that board, and
also in the office of the EXPONENT where
she has been employed as manager for the
last five years, whenever the editor has
been absent, and assisting more or less at
all times in the different departments,
of editorial and other work on the paper.
Miss Sears was also Secretary of the Wo-
man’s Republican League of the Territory
for some time.
	The EXPONENT extends most sincere con-
gratulations, and wishes to the newly
married couple, long life and a happy and
prosperous voyage on the fair sea of matri-
mony.
“The joys of marriage are the heaven on earth,
Life’s paradise, great princess, the souls quiet
Sinews of concord, earthly immortality,
Eternity of pleasures.',


HOLIDAY WEDDING BELLS.
			“The general voice
	Sounds him, for courtesy, behavior, language,
	And ev’ry fair demeanor, an example;
	Titles of honor add not to his wealth, 
	Who is himself an honor to his title.”

	ON Wednesday, December 30, 1896 at
high noon in the Salt Lake Temple, Lieut.
Briant Harris Wells and Miss Mary Jane
Jennings were united in marriage by
Bishop John R. Winder. An informal
wedding reception was held at the residence
of the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas W. Jennings from two to five p.
m. The happy bride and bridegroom re-
ceived congratulations under a bower of
vines and the handsome parlors were pro-
fusely and beautifully decorated with holly,
red carnations and the trailing smilax.
	The bridegroom in his uniform and the
bride in a tight fitting blue cloth traveling
dress of the latest style, made a striking
picture as they stood to receive their guests,
who were mostly relatives of the two
families.
	Delicious refreshments were daintily
served in an adjoining room, and the jubi-
lance of the happy occasion was only lessen-
ed by the thought of the immediate de-
parture of the young people from home.
The young Lieut, is stationed with his
regiment at Fort Yates, North Dakota,
whither Lieut, and Mrs. Wells departed
on their wedding journey the same evening.
		“Across the threshold led
  And every tear kissed off as soon as shed
  His house she enters there to be a light,
  Shining within when all without is night;
  A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
  Doubling his pleasures and his cares dividing.
	Lieut. Wells is the youngest son of Gen.
D. H. and Mrs. Martha G. Wells, and is
the brother of Governor Heber M. Wells.
He graduated as a cadet at West Point
three years ago and is well worthy of the
title and honors he bears and we are proud
to say a credit to the service.


Mrs. Wells is the daughter of Thomas
W. Jennings, eldest son of the late Ex.
Mayor Jennings of this city and is also on
the maternal side grand-daughter of the
late Capt. W. H. Hooper, one of the first
delegates to Congress from this Territory.
Lieut. and Mrs. Wells are both very
attractive and popular, and the marriage is
looked upon by all parties as a brilliant
union, and although for the present duty
calls them hence, yet in the near future it
is hoped they may return to make their
permanent home in this city, where they
have a large circle of relatives and friends
who will be proud and happy to welcome
them back to Zion.
	The EXPONENT adds its best wishes for
their future happiness, and may their life
be as serene and prosperous as their nearest
and dearest friends could desire.

	“In peace Love tunes the shepherd’s reed,
	In war he mounts the warrior’s steed;
	In halls in gay attire is seen,
	In hamlets dances on the green.
	Love rules the court, the camp, the grove
	And man below, and saints above;
	For love is heaven and heaven is love !”


ANOTHER HOLIDAY WEDDING.

[--]ve is or ought to be our greatest bliss,
[-]nce every other joy how dear soever,
Gives way for that and we leave all for love.”
	Miss Edna Lambert and Mr. Eugene
M. Cannon of this city were united in mar-
riage at noon on Friday, January 1, 1897,
in the Salt Lake Temple, President Angus
M. Cannon of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion
and father of the bridegroom, performing
the solemn ceremony.
	The bride is the daughter of George C.
Lambert Esq. of the Lambert Paper Co.,
and a very sweet and amiable young girl;
the young husband has just recently re-
turned from filling honorably a mission of
three years to the Society Islands Their
courtship, if we may be excused the term,
dates back to their childhood, and judging
from appearances they have always been in
love with each other.
“But they were young; Oh! what without our
	youth,
Would love be?—what would youth be without
	love?
Youth lends it joy, and sweetness, vigor, truth
Heart, soul, and all that seems as from above.”
	A wedding reception was given at the
bride’s parents in the evening (New Year’s
night) a most auspicious time, and surely
everything indicates a long and happy life
for this very young couple, who have start-
ed out so well and under such favorable
conditions.
	The guests were very numerous though
nearly all relatives, and congratulations
were even more numerous than the
assembled guests, for many were sent by
those who could not be present in person.
Delicious refreshments were served on
tete a tete tables and there was joy and
merriment and nothing at all to mar the
happiness of the party.
	Again the EXPONENT extends heartfelt
congratulations and hopes and believes
these devoted young people who have start-
ed out to begin life together will be worthy
all the blessings mortals are permitted to
enjoy in this world.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.
	Dec. 39, 1896, the U. W. P. C. held its
regular meeting at the office of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. The meeting was
called to order at 7.30 p. m., President
Ruth M. Fox presiding. After prayer was
offered by Dr. Shipp, the secretary called
the roll, each member responding with a
sentiment from Mrs. Hemans. Minutes of
last meeting were then read and approved.
A motion was made by Mrs. E. B. Wells
and carried by vote of club that Mrs. Emily
S. Richards be made a member. The pro-
gramme for the next meeting was presented
by Mrs. L. D. Alder and the program com-
mittee dismissed. Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs.
Ella W. Hyde and Mrs. P. C. Young were
appointed by the President as the members
of the next program committee. Under
the head of new business, Pres. Fox spoke
in regard to the necessity of the club paying
for light, heat and room for their meetings.
No motion was made but the matter was
left for the consideration of the club. A
letter from Mrs. Julia McDonald to the
U. W. P. C. was read by the Sec’y. The
evening’s program was as follows: Paper
“ Pilgrim Women of New England,” Miss
Monroe. Poem “ Year of Jubilee,” Mrs.
Fox. Paper “John Ruskin,” Mrs. Wil-
cox. Dr. Pratt was excused from giving
her paper on account of sickness.
	On motion made and carried that the
critic’s report be given next meeting and
that the critic be allowed unlimited scope
in her criticisms. Adjournment was now
in order. Benediction Mrs. Margaret A.
Caine.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec’y.


UNREQUITED.
METHOUGHT my love was perfect sweetness,
   Milk of human kindness running o’er,
With all the virtues in completeness,
   Held too in ample bounteous store.
Alas, 'tis but a sad delusion,—
   A fleeting phantom,—fate must deplore,
Apart, alone in still seclusion,
   I mourn for love that returns no more.
Yet one ray in my vale of sorrow,
   From hope's bright star cheers the path I tread
Guides upward towards a blissful morrow,
   Where eternal life restores the dead.
                                                            L. M. H.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
Editor Woman's Exponent;
	The semi-annual Relief Society Confer-
ence of the Snowflake Stake was held at
Taylor, Nov. 28, ’96.
	On account of sickness the attendance
was small, but that did not in the least pre-
vent the flow of the Holy Spirit. The day
was cold and clear and those who came
from a distance were delighted to find the
meeting house warm and comfortable.
	Only four statistical and financial reports
had been sent in, but the few presidents
and counselors that were present gave very
encouraging verbal reports.
	The teachings were such as to awaken a
new interest in the Relief Society work and
inspire all with the belief that the presiding
sisters were faithful and sincere in their en-
deavors to perform the great work required
of them.

[Column 2]
	The training of the children was the
most important topic dwelt upon by the
sisters. The restoration of the Gospel, the
gifts of the Gospel and other subjects were
touched upon in a very pleasing manner.
	President Jesse N. Smith complimented
the sisters on their good work and said
they treasured up their faith somewhat like
we put money in a bank and can draw from
it as occasion demands. Was thankful for
the willingness of the sisters and for their
knowledge of the efficacy of prayer, said
there could be no doubt but that the Sa-
vior’s choicest moments were spent with
Mary, Mary Magdalen and others. Con-
ference adjourned for six months.
	DELLA FISH, Stake Secretary.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, held in
the 14th ward Assembly Hall, Dec. 19,
1896, President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. Present on the stand were Counselors
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon, Sis-
ters B. W. Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W.
Wilcox and L. D. Alder. Singing “Lord
we come before thee now;”prayer by M.
W. Wilcox; singing “We thank Thee O,
God for a Prophet.” Resignation of Mar-
garet A. Caine read and accepted and Mar-
garet Y. Taylor sustained as her successor.
Roll called, treasurer’s report read and
minutes of last Conference read and
approved.
	President Horne welcomed the sisters
and rejoiced to see them, spoke on the
calamities abroad, said the Lord was merci-
ful to His children here in the chambers of
the mountains, refered to the Semi-Centen-
nial, compared the different circumstances
that had taken place in fifty years, urged
upon the several branches of the Relief
Society to look after the poor, thought the
Presidents should be mothers to their
wards; we were a progressive people and
should not stand still when so much good
could be accomplished. We cannot serve
“God and Mammon.” We must not neg-
lect our duties or we will come under con-
demnation, made other timely and instruct-
ive remarks.
	Sister Francis spoke in behalf of the Wo-
man’s Co-operative store, said she desired
to make the store a success, was willing to
make any article that anyone would want
and as reasonable; hoped the sisters would
patronize it, would like to raise five hundred
dollars just now and hoped the sisters
would take some shares, said she had enjoy-
ed the good spirit that was here, and prayed
God to bless all. President Horne spoke
again in behalf of the store and said she
felt the day would come when such a store
would be needed among us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor felt as earnest as ever
in the Relief Society work. The progress
of the Relief Society had been great and to
ourselves it had done good, we were better
Latter-day Saints when we attended to our
duties, and our hearts turned with a desire
to look after the poor. Refered to the
benefit in reading in our society meetings
the church works, spoke on the Stake
officers being invited to visit the various
wards and stir the associations up by their
presence and good counsel, we all needed
the Holy Spirit to aid us, prayed for God
to bless each and every one.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said it was a
feast for her to listen to the sisters speak
that had been so valiant in the cause, was

[Column 3]
pleased to hear the store spoken of, and the
new management. Prayed for strength to
be firm and faithful in our lives to the end.
Conference adjourned till 2 o’clock. Sing-
ing “Do what is right;” dismissed by Sis-
ter Mary S. Clark.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock,
singing “O, say what is truth;” prayer
by Sister L. D. Alder; singing “Where
the voice of friendship’s heard.”
	On the stand were Counselor Joseph E.
Taylor of the Stake Presidency and Elder
George Goddard, Bishop G. H. Taylor and
Counselor T. E. Taylor. President Horne
gave a few words of welcome to the breth-
ren, Sister B. W. Smith made a few re-
marks and Georgianna F. Young spoke in
behalf of the Kindergarten and its benefit
to the young, hoped the sisters would come
to their aid by taking a membership.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said our object in
coming together was to do each other good,
gave her support to the kindergarten work,
hoped our spiritual nature would be fed.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde thought the Re-
lief Society work the best of all our institu-
tions as its requirements were to look after
the poor, had attended recently the Sanpete
Relief Society conference, and their reports
were fine, they had made seventy-five yards
of cloth in Spring City for the poor besides
other things quilts, stockings etc., felt the
young women as well as the older sisters
should take an interest in Relief Society
work.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of her love and
interest in the society work and made other
interesting remarks.
	Sister Julia C. Howe spoke of the great
blessing the Relief Society had been to her,
felt to give her support to the Kindergarten
work.
	Sister Stevenson bore a strong testimony
to the Gospel and her love for the Relief
Society.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor said he was heart
and soul in the Relief Society work, also
gave his hearty support to the Kinder-
garten, spoke on the evils that were creep-
ing into our midst and made an earnest
appeal to the mothers in looking after their
children.
	Elder George Goddard spoke on the
change in our fast day, and the good that
would result from that change. Sang
“Let us gather up the sunbeams.”
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks and Conference was adjourned for
three months. Singing Doxology; bene-
diction by Bishop G. H. Taylor.
	MARGARET Y. TAYLOR, Sec.
WEBER STAKE.
	THE Weber Stake Relief Society met in
Conference December 10, 1896, in the
Third Ecclesiastical ward meeting house,
President Jane S. Richards presiding.
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Ferrin.
President Jane S. Richards was pleased to
have the privilege of meeting so many of
her brethren and sisters in Conference.
She said she had great confidence in the
priesthood, felt the sisters were doing all
they could to help the sick and needy in
their different associations, that she never
had any trouble in getting the sisters to
turn out and do their part. She often com-
pared the first organization of the Relief
Society with those of today, and thought
they were growing spiritually as well as in
numbers. Said we certainly are better
prepared to help the poor than we were in
years gone by, was desirous of hearing


[Column 1]
from the many sisters who were present, as
most of them had come a long distance.
She said that to look at the stand, one
would almost think that they were holding
a priesthood meeting, as so many of the
bishops and brethren were present.
	The next speaker was Counselor Hattie
C. Brown, who said she felt we were indeed
a blessed people to have the privilege of
meeting together so often, and felt en-
couraged to see the interest taken in the
Relief Society work. She believed all felt
it a pleasure as well as a duty to comfort
and bless those who are in need, and was
very pleased to see our old friend, Sister
Emily S. Richards with us this morning.
She said she loved to meet with the sisters,
and felt sure they would have a good meet-
ing.
	Sister Jeanette Bingham said she was
thankful that she could bear the same testi-
mony today that she had always borne, and
that she loved Relief Society work. The
Lord had blessed her in giving her strength
sufficient to attend to her labors.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, of Salt Lake
City, next addressed the meeting. She
said it always gave her pleasure to meet
with her sisters in Ogden, where she first
began her Relief Society work, also her
work with the young ladies. It carried her
back to the time when Sister Eliza R.
Snow used to come and visit the sisters and
bless them so abundantly with words of
great wisdom. She told Bishop McQuarrie
this morning how disappointed she felt
when she found that Sister Zina Young
was not on the train. He said, “never
mind Sister Emily, you are in the house of
your friends.” She could not tell how
much she had appreciated Bishop Mc-
Quarrie’s encouraging words during her
labors with the young women of Ogden.
She was glad that a number of our young
women had joined the Relief Society, they
would be greatly benefited by mingling
with their older sisters. If we are to be
judged by thought, word and deed how
very careful we should be especially in
these times, was pleased to see that so many
bishops could take time to meet with the
sisters in Conference, and appreciate the
good work they did in visiting the widows
and fatherless, felt it a pity that more of the
young sisters could not meet with the sis-
ters of the Relief Society, as they would be
greatly benefited by so doing.
	Brother D. H. Peery next addressed the
sisters in his usual pleasing manner, giving
them excellent counsel. He spoke en-
couragingly of the labors of the sisters, and
said that he loved to attend their meetings.
Said he had been greatly impressed by the
list of delinquent tax payers, said the peo-
ple had thought that it was their enemies
that would bring them into bondage, but
that they had brought it upon themselves
by living beyond their means and running in
debt. That he could remember when it
took very little to satisfy the people in this
territory, but it was not so now. He said
he was not much of a speaker, and could
not say beautiful things like the sisters, but
he tried to speak the truth in his abrupt
way, and all the sisters knew that D. H.
Peery was no hypocrite, he told the truth
whether people liked it or not. He enjoy-
ed these Conferences, and thanked Sister
Richards for inviting him to attend.
	Counselor Charles F. Middleton also
[-]poke in praise of the work of the sisters.
[-]aid he had known Sister Emily Richards

[Column 2]
for many years and was proud of her work
among the sisters. Said we all know and
appreciate Brother Peery’s good qualities,
for they are many. He has been a great
benefactor to Weber county.
	Sister Lightner said, although she could
not hear she enjoyed coming to the meet-
ings, for the Spirit of the Lord was here.
Our Relief Society was organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was inspired
from on high. She was glad that she had
had the privilege of listening to the
Prophet Joseph Smith. She desired to live
the life of a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	President Jane S. Richards said there
would be a lunch served in the building, of
which all were invited to partake.
	After prayer, the meeting adjourned till
two o'clock.
	The afternoon session opened with sing-
ing and prayer. Roll called and eleven
presidents present.
	Sister Sarah Hunt, Adaline Belnap and
Mary Ann Wallace gave very encouraging
reports of their associations.
	Sister Mary McQuarrie said that she had
joined the Relief Society because the
younger sisters had been invited to do so,
and had been greatly blessed in meeting
with the sisters. She said we cannot al-
ways tell where our duty lies, but by ask-
ing the Lord to point out those who are in
distress, either mentally or physically, we
will be led to the right people. “I am
sure if more of our young people would
come to these meetings they would enjoy
them.”
	Brother F. S. Richards addressed the sis-
ters for a short time. He said he was
pleased to be invited to meet with his
Ogden friends, and it gave him pleasure to
think of the time when he worked in the
missionary field with his brethren in Weber
county, some of whom are present and
some have passed away. He spoke words
of encouragment to the sisters and said the
Lord would bless them in their labors and
show them where to go when they were in
doubt as to who were needing help. Said
he could bear testimony that his mother’s
health had improved since she had been
connected with Relief Society work, and he
prayed that the sisters might continue in
their labors of love.
	The authorities of the association were
presented and sustained, and after singing,
and benediction by Bishop Dye, Conference
was adjourned for three monthis. 
	SEC. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS adopted by the officers and mem-
bers of the Kanosh Relief Society in memory of
their beloved President, Sister Adelia A. Kimball,
who departed this life after a lingering illness,
October 19, 1896, being 68 years, 7 months and 16
days old. She was the daughter of Catharine and
Eber Wilcox, and was born in Shandgo county,
New York. She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years old.
	She first married William Hatton who was kill-
ed by Indians at Fillmore, which left her a widow
with three small children; she was afterwards
married to President Heber C. Kimball and lived
in his family until her daughter Mary Eliza was
married to Abraham Kimball with whom she re-
sided until her death. She has endured many
trials and persecutions for the Gospel’s sake but
was never heard to murmur or complain. She
was of a kind and gentle disposition, was full of
charity and always had a word of comfort for the
sick and afflicted. She was never known to en-
dorse a slander or encourage gossip.


January 1, 1875 she was chosen President of
the Relief Society of Kanosh ward and for nearly
twenty-two years has labored faithfully in that
capacity; she was well qualified for that position
being a woman who had a great reverence for the
Priesthood, and her presence brought with it
an influence of peace.
	She was conscious to the last and called her
children and grandchildren around her bed and
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel, urging them to be true and steadfast in the
work of God, then passed peacefully away. The
cause of her demise was catarrh of the head and
stomach and she suffered greatly. The funeral
was under the direction of the members of the
Relief Society and was beautifully conducted.
Be it therefore,
	RESOLVED, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our beloved President and sister to her
heavenly home, that we desire to emulate her
noble example and that we herewith express our
heartfelt sympathy for her children and grand-
children. Be it further
	RESOLVED That these resolutions be placed on
the records of the society and a copy sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	ELEANOR RAPPLEYE, First Conunselor.
	ALICE J. RAPPLEYE, Secretary.


AN OFFERING OF LOVE.

	IN loving remembrance of the first anniversary
of the death of Sister Ann Roberts Griffiths,
who departed this life Dec. 26, 1895 at Union,
Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	We feel that her dear name should be recorded
within the sacred folds of the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT, which she so dearly loved to read. As a
life sketch was printed in the Deseret News at the
time of her death, we will only mention a few of
the noble traits of her character.
	Sister Griffith embraced the truth in her native
land, the only one in the family who obeyed the
Gospel. She made many sacrifices for the Gos-
pel’s sake, one of which was in tearing herself
away from a loving mother who fainted when
her daughter bade her good bye to cast her lot
with the people ot God. Sister Griffith always
wept when she related this sad parting.
	She was the mother of fifteen children, six of
whom are now living. She was a widow 35
years. She held the marriage covenant with her
husband sacred. Her devoted sons were always
her dearest companions. After her family had
grown up, she devoted her life to the care of the
sick night and day without money and without
price, sacrificing her own comfort continually for
the good of others; a more kind and loving hand
never soothed the aching head than the hand of
Sister Griffith. One of the most beautiful traits
of her character was her love for little children; 
they would flock around her and she wonld al-
ways have time to speak to them in her kind lov-
ing way. Many were the tears shed by the little
ones when she was called to leave them. Her
love was great for her sisters in the Relief Soci-
ety, she held the office of Counselor to Sister
Elizabeth Richards, they were united in love.
She dearly loved and cherished the counsels of
our beloved Sister Eliza R. Snow. When at the
Temple a year before her death, Sister Zina D.
Young placed her arms arouud her and blessed
her; she testified it was as an angel’s blessing,
more than gold to her. The writer feels to ex-
claim,
		“Little deeds of kindness
			Little words of love,
		Makes our earth an Eden,
			Like the Heaven above.”
	Sister Griffith loved the Gospel, was acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and testified of
the great power that he posessed; she saw the
dead bodies of the Prophet and his brother
Hyrum, after they were martyred for the truth,
and often spoke of the universal sadness which
prevailed at that time. She was driven from her
home in Nauvoo, and shared in the hardships and
persecutions of the Saints at that time. She en-
dured to the end and has gone to meet her loved
ones, who are many.
	Oh, what could be more valuable
		Than treasures laid in Heaven
	Where moth and rust cannot corrupt
		And thieves no place are given.
	The precious gold, the diamonds rare,
		On earth their homage claiming
	Yet with eternal endless life
		Compared, they’re not worth naming.


What are these treasures, rich and rare
	Which gold can never purchase?
It is the acts of mortal life
	The fruits of earnest workers.
To cool the fevered, aching brow,
	To cheer the heart of sorrow;
Unselfish in the smallest act
	Nor think not of tomorrow.
To live a life of sacrifice
	That’s full of love and sweetness;
Be firm to every covenant made
	Seek charity and meekness.
Sweet Ann these treasures rich and rare,
	To you by God are given
A crown of glory awaits you there
	Eternal life in Heaven.
					M. A. BALL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of meeting of W. S. A. held in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT office Oct. 19.
Song “Wyoming;” prayer Mrs. E. Price;
song “Help the working women;” minutes
read and accepted and roll called. Presi-
dent Grosebeck read a letter from Mrs.
Fewson Smith in which she sent in her
resignation as chairman of the executive
committee of the association, on which
action was defered for one month. Mrs.
McFarlane read from the new State laws of
Utah a chapter on “what constitutes a
voter,” and the penalties of disregarding it.
	Moved that Mrs. Groesbeck and Mrs.
McFarlane form a committee to draft
“Resolutions of Respect” to Mrs. Fewson
Smith for past services. Adjourned to
meet one month from that day at the same
place and time. Prayer by Mrs. Oswald.
		CASSIE C. NEWMAN, Sec.

	Minutes of S. L. W. S. held in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT office, Nov. 17, 1896.
Song “The reason why;” prayer by Mrs.
McFarlane; song “Columbia’s Daugh-
ters;” minutes of last meeting read and ac-
cepted. Resolutions of respect to Mrs.
Fewson Smith read, and approved.
	Mrs. Wells, State President, made some
suggestions in reference to the Association
and the matter of continuing or uniting
with the State Association, which subject
was discussed and finally a motion was
made and carried that the members unite
with the State Association and discontinue
holding separate meetings.
	Mrs. Silver spoke as to the
efficient work done by the president of the
association. Mrs. McFarlane and Mrs.
Grames also spoke of, and thanked the
president for her devotion to the work.
	Treasurer’s report read by the Secretary
and accepted. Mrs. Silver moved that the
funds on hand belonging to the County
Association be given to Mrs. Wells for the
use of the office in holding meetings.
	RESOLVED, That the county Association
present the pictures of Mrs. Stanton and
Miss Anthony to the State Association.
Decided that the literature of the Associa-
tion be left at the EXPONENT office for the
use of the members. Prayer by Mrs.
Silver.
		CASSIE C. NEWMAN, Sec.


THE Hawaiian Government has granted
a full pardon and the restoration of her
civil rights to ex-Queen Liliuokalani. The
pardon is based upon the fact that during
her parole she has faithfully kept the terms
of her partial freedom.


A CURIOUS PROPHECY.

	“IN August 1857 the Bavarian Allgemeine
Zeitung printed a remarkable prophecy,
which had been made by an old hermit
many years before.
	In it the rise of Napoleon III. was clear-
ly outlined, as were also the Austro-Prus-
sian and the Franco-Prussian wars and the
commune of Paris. He told how the death
of Pope Pius would occure in 1876 or 1877,
and how it would be followed by a Turko-
Russian war, being but slightly wrong in
either prediction.
	He said that Germany would have three
emperors in one year before the end of the
century which was verified to the letter.
He missed in one, at least, in the number
of United States presidents that were to die
by assassination, which was remarkably
close to say the least.
	He said that when the twentieth century
opened Manhattan Island and the whole of
New York city would be submerged in
the waters of the Hudson, East river and
the bay; Cuba will break in two, and the
west half and the city of Havanna find a
watery resting place.
	Florida and Lower California are to break
loose from the main land and carry their
load of human freight to the bottom of the
sea.
	The twenty-fifth is to be the last of
the United States presidents, and Ireland is
to be a kingdom and England a Republic by
the end of the century.
	The United States are to be divided and
San Francisco, Salt Lake City New Orleans,
St. Louis, Washington and Boston are to be
made capitals. There should be some con-
solation for the Mormons in this, if not for
the other parts of our great union.
	To return to England. The end of the
century will not find either Italy or France
on the maps, and Berlin will have been
totally destroyed by an earthquake.”
							Ex.


THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS IN BER-
LIN.

	I CANNOT help saying it was a success,
and in the interest of the woman question I
am compelled to proclaim it. Do not think
that we attribute the success entirely to the
ability of our committee; it is chiefly the
spirit of the time—the great progress which
the woman question has made in Germany
during the last few years—which made a
success of the Congress. What we would
not have dared to hope a few years ago
happened—the Town Council granted us
the privilege of holding our meeting in the
most beautiful Town Hall (Rathhaussaal)
and thousands of women and men—women
of course in the majority—congregated to
the assemblies, hundreds being obliged to
turn away for want of room, in spite of the
enormous size of the hall. On two large
tables, reporters, ladies and gentlemen
worked day by day unceasingly and pro-
vided thousands of newspapers all over the
world with reports from the Congress,
which were eagerly read by women of all
classes and of all nations.
	During the seven day’s Congress nearly all
subjects connected with the woman question
were touched, and not a single one lacked
interest. The foreign delegates were
agreeably surprised at the coolness and
cleverness with which the German women
delivered their speeches from the platform; to


but there is no denying the fact that
agreeably as they were surprised, ours was
the good fortune to be enchanted by the
magnificent and splendid speeches deliver-
ed by the foreign, especially by the English
and American delegates.
	Let me mention first of all Mrs. Ormis-
ton Chant, who gave us. in her musical
voice, a most interesting account of the
temperance question; Mrs. Belva Lock-
wood, the well known attorney, who spoke
in an exceedingly interesting manner on
the political rights of women in the United
States; Mrs. Kirkbride of Philadelphia,
Miss French of Washington, Baroness
Gripenberg of Finland, Dr. Maria Popelin
of Brussels.
	It would be encroaching upon your space
if I were to give all names who contributed
towards its success; we are thankful to
each of them.
			ELIZA ICHENHAUSER.
Berlin.
		—English Woman's Review


NOTES AND NEWS.

	DR. CAROLINE B. WINSLOW left a will
bequeathing her body to Howard University
to be dissected by a woman medical student
for the purpose of advancing her knowledge
of anatomy.
	A FRAGMENT of a letter written in Char-
lotte Bronte’s own hand, shows her char-
acter as well as anything she ever wrote.
It is the ending of a letter to Miss Nussey,
and these are the lines: “Submission,
courage- exertion when practicable—these
seem to be the weapons with which we
must fight life’s long battle Yours faith-
fully, C. Bronte”			—Ex.
	“THE sad death of Mrs. Sarah Bristol
Cooper and her daughter Harriet has
brought a shock of grief to the hearts of a
multitude of friends, not only in San Fran-
cisco, but all over the country.
	As our readers already know through the
daily papers, the daughter, who was
afflicted with suicidal mania, turned on the
gas during her mother’s sleep, and mother
and daughter were found dead in their beds”


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15, AND FEB. 1, 1897.		No. 14 & 15


CONTENTS:

	A Happy Birthday—L. D. Alder. A Mother In
Israel—Maria McRae.  U. W. P. C.—Orielle
Curtis, Sec. Relief Society In Chicago. Anni-
versary Party—Mary S. Christensen. Spring City
Relief Society—Nancy Acord. Mrs. Stowe’s
Monument. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam—M.
A. Hardy. Resolutions Of Respect. Letter From
Columbus, Kansas—E. A. Scammon. Obituary
—A. C. M. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—L.
D. Alder Sec. Washington Co. Silk Asso’n.
Lula’s Letter—L. L. Greene Richards. Notes
And News.
	EDITORIAL:—Annual Convention N-A.W. S. A.
Mary Houston Kimball Smith Re-organization
At Brighton. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—To Dr. Ellis R. Shipp On Her Birth-
day Jubilee—Emily H. Woodmansee	My Only
Sister—L. D. Alder. Selection From Times And
Seasons—President Joseph Smith.


TO DR. ELLIS R SHIPP ON HER BIRTHDAY
JUBILEE.

DEAR friend, your dainty messenger—
Welcome, as welcome—well could be,
Conveyed your wish—expressed in time,
“Come, spend with me an afternoon—
In honor of my Jubilee.”
As one of your untiring friends
I greet you on this festive day,
And certainly, it seems to me—
You’re passing by victoriously—  
The fiftieth mile stone in your way.
Sustained by God’s assisting grace—
You’ve seen the half of life’s hard race,
And made a record bright and clear;
And surely now, from friends sincere—
Congratulations are in place.
Such countless cares to Life belong;
Huge obstacles the path bestrew;
Dread influences around us throng;
One’s resolution must be strong,
Opposing forces to subdue.
So human like it is to fail,
So human like to faint and fall,
The best, are liable to slip:
And noblest ones must sometimes sip—
The dregs of vinegar and gall.
However beautifully clear—
Or brightly blue the present sky,
Full well I know in days gone by—
You’ve lived through trials most severe, 
That taxed and proved your courage high.
Praise well deserved, is near akin—
To compliments from flattery’s lip;
Much credit you have earned I ween,
And loving hearts reserve therein
A place, for Dr. Ellis Shipp.
Long may you live, nor weary grow;
Long may you needful help bestow;
Long may you soothe your suffering kind; 
What purer joy could mortals know,
What nobler task could mortals find?
At length when age, must o’er you creep—
Oh may you gently fall asleep—
Forgetful of all mortal strife;
And be by angels carried hence—
To reap, a glorious recompense—
Celestial joy—and endless life,
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE
S. L. City, Jan. 20, 1897.


[Column 1]
“MY ONLY SISTER.”

IN the gladsome Long Ago
	In the bright sunshining weather
There romped by my side a winsome lass
	As we strolled along together.
The light wind caught her flaxen hair
	And smothered the fair young face,
While her eyes of blue flashed in merriment
	As she and the wind kept apace.

I smiled at her glee and mischief
	She danced so much like an elf;
And though I tried to be serious,
	I laughed in spite of myself.
Oh, those happy days are gone forever,
	For my sister to womanhood grew,
Crowned with a beauty and gentleness,
	That were both strange and new.

Then came Love and she strayed from me
	Her loving only brother;
No longer we romped as in the old days,
	Her thoughts ever given to another.
Well, change must come to all the world,
	But my heart still true to its trust,
Only sighed when I saw the change in her,
	For our love of the Past seemed as dust.

But the love light looked so rosy
	As it shone upon her face,
Her eyes took on a thoughtful look
	Her form a tender grace.
And I felt that she loved another,
	With a love that never was mine,
But O, I thought of the future,
	Of the change that would come with Time.

And I prayed for her in passion,
	And wept as well as prayed,
That God would shield my sister
	And misery’s hand be stayed.
For she so bright and happy,
	Seemed all the world to me.
I shared her joys and wept in griefs
	And feared what the future might be.

But ’tis over, she has gone far away
	Past my prayers, my hopes, my fears,
And I sit in the home made empty,
	And my eyes fill up with tears.
Here is her picture, the dress she wore,
	Her trinkets, some old some new;
Her dainty belongings seemed part of herself,
	As though she must be there too.

But no! clothed in bridal array,
	In her casket I saw her rest;
Her heart was still, her lips were cold,
	Her hands lay white on her breast.
But peaceful and calm was the scene
	Like a Princess she rested there,
While the bridal flowers of spotless hue,
	Were twining everywhere.

They spoke of love, they breathed of hope,
	And whispered faint on the air;
“We bloom forever in Paradise,
	We never grow old and sere.”
Flowers and song, flowers and song,
	And a parting that seemed for aye,
Then deep in her bosom mother Earth,
	Hid my precious treasure away.

And I know she sleeps on the hillside,
	Where the whispering winds soft blow;
And will meet with us, no never again,
	While this life we live below.

[Column 2]
But O, I know she is living
	In a world where all is love,
And I gaze on the stars in the silent night.
	As they shine in the vault above.

And I think of how she is waiting,
	And watching for me to come,
And I feel that she knows how I loved her,
	While here in this earthly home.
And changes now will never come,
	Her heart and mine between; 
And never a tear will fall again,
	For the love that “might have been.”

She is still my little sister
	As in the far away days;
And I put out my hand to guard her,
	Again in her romping ways.
And I am still her brother
	For ever and for aye; 
And she with her dainty, snowy hand.
	Will lead me to Heav’n’s day.

I know it is just past the starlight,
	Where the beams are glimmering through;
It must be her glistening raiment,
	That shines through the vault of blue.
And I hear her voice as I listen,
	For the breeze is whispering low; 
And she trills again the merry songs,
	She loved so long ago.

But the music grows faint and fainter,
	As the stars fade fast from my sight;
And the clouds come thick and darker,
	And I feel alone in the night.
Thank God for the beautiful vision
	In fancy I see it o’er;
Thank Him for the sweet assurance,
	In heaven we’ll part no more.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
Dec. 24, 1896.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY.

AT HOME
Wednesday, Jan. 20, 1897.
From 3 P. M.

“Old friends and true: dear friends though new:
Come join me on mv natal day;
Through fifty years, of hopes and fears,
Through all my earthly joys and tears,
You’ve been, with God, my staff and stay.”
—ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	So read the dainty card that announced
the jubilee year of our esteemed friend.
	In response her friends came, about sixty
in number. At the door they were met by
her charming daughter Ellis; and further
in the hall of her spacious dwelling were
greeted by the hostess herself, looking
beautiful and radiant with happiness.
	The day was damp and cold without, but
within was warmth, a genial feeling and
the odor of many flowers; flowers on the
mantles, in the hall windows and other
conspicuous places, making one almost think
Summer had come again.
	These beautiful emblems of love were
the gift of Dr. Shipp’s children.
Accompanying them was this beautiful
sentiment:
“Mother dear we love you.


[Column 1]
	We half believe you know not how well.
Would you fully know? Then measure
out your love, and take a tenth; to love 
more is quite impossible. Capacity to love
comes with our years. Poor consolation
though it be, we are coming to know how
much we should have loved you.
	These flowers will fade—
		Not so our love for thee,
	Deeper, stronger will it grow
		Through all eternity.”
	The spirit of love reigned supreme while
each one greeted our hostess, wishing her 
many more happy birthdays and that she 
would continue to look young and graceful 
as now, though going down the shady side 
of the hill of life.
	Some time was whiled away in pleasant 
conversation, old friends meeting each
other, new friends greeting each other, the
voices of the aged and the young blending
musically together, and over and through 
it all a sweet feeling of love and peace.
	By request a beautiful poem written for 
Dr. Shipp by her aunt, who is much
younger than herself, was read by Miss
Ellis Shipp. Also a loving tribute from 
the pen of Emily H. Woodmansee was read
by Annie Wells Cannon.
	A few choice gems from the heart of our
honored sister, Zina D. H Young, were
expressed in love and praise to our friend. 
	Sister M. Isabella Horne followed, speak-
ing feelingly of some of the trials through
which Sister Shipp had passed, and pro-
phetically portrayed a future more bright, 
more happy than the past.
	Sister B. W. Smith added words of bless-
ing and encouragement. Dainty refresh-
ments were served by the younger members
of the family, while many were the wishes 
expressed that the future might be more 
bright and blessed for the one whom we
had met to honor. Sister E. B. Wells of 
the EXPONENT read a poem full of love; 
and expressions of praise were made by 
others present.
	Some of the responses to the graceful 
invitation were expressed in verse and read
during the afternoon by the authors them-
selves.

MY DEAR FRIEND DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Thy jubilee? Yes dear we will come,
And meet thee in thy happy home;
And wishes bring that every year,
May blessings bring to aid and cheer.
May Peace and plenty crown thy days,
And morn and eve, bring sweetest praise;
May future trials soothe thy heart,
And to thy life new grace impart.
Love beams within thy kindly eye,
Where wells of truth serenely lie;
Wisdom is stamped on thy noble brow,
And Endurance is enthroned there now.
The sun sets in the crimson West;
And Nature sinks to needed rest;
As the floods of glory fill the air,
So may thy life be now more fair.
Till reaching out where the blue tints meet,
May all thy joys be full, complete;—
Thy aims, thy hopes, thy fondest dreams,
Be glorious, bright, as the sun’s last beams.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.

	Some very choice sentiments were sent 
from the Dr’s, medical class, also in rhyme.

[Column 2]
We have come to thee on thy natal day,
In response to a call in thine own sweet way,
Old friends, new friends,—bid sadness flee,
We are brimming over with blessings for thee.

Though true love cannot banish all thy fears,
Neither put to flight all thy sorrows and tears,
’Twill strengthen thy hopes, indeed be a stay;
’Tis such that we bring thee, and give thee alway.
Life truly has held its trials for thee
As for others, but now ’tis thy Jubilee;
Rejoice and be glad, thy sorrows have been,
Refining, exalting,—shall fit thee a queen.

	These sentiments written in a booklet of
Birthday poems were the offering of Ruth
M. Fox.
	As time drew on the happy assemblage
departed, amid strains from the piano of
“Home sweet home,” by Miss Olea Shipp.
						L. D. A.


WOMANS EXPONENT


A MOTHER IN ISRAEL.

THATCHER, Ariz., Jan. 10, 1897.
Dear Sister Wells:
	There was a very pleasant surprise party
held at the home of Patriarch P. C. Merrill
of Safford, in honor of his wife Cyrena on
her 80th birthday, Jan. 6, 1897, gotten up
by her children and members of the Relief
Society.
	At two o’clock the company numbering
between thirty and forty people, sat down
to a bounteous repast; following them came
the grandchildren and great grandchild-
ren. After dinner all re-assembled and a
patriarchal blessing of Sister Merrill given
under the hands of Joseph Smith Sen., was
read. Sister Merrill then gave a brief
sketch of her eventful life, having been
with the church from its early infancy,
patiently enduring the trials of the saints;
her life in Utah and her pioneer life in
Arizona, which was listened to with much
interest by her audience.
	Sister Wilmirth East, Relief Society
Stake President having come from her
home some ten miles distant to be with her
beloved co-laborer and counselor on this
her natal day, gave some very good and
interesting remarks during which she was
led to speak in tongues which she interpret-
ed; her words encouraged and strengthened
the faith of those present. She was follow-
ed by others of the brothers and sisters
present.
	Before the company dispersed Patriarch
Merrill gave them his blessing and all
went their way feeling the afternoon had
been pleasantly and profitably spent.
	During the afternoon the following
beautiful lines were read by their composer,
Sister Diana Allen:

[LINES TO SISTER CYRENA MERRILL ON HER
80TH birthday, Jan. 6, 1897.]
To our veteran Mother, who aged and white.
Has braved the rude storms, and fought the good
	fight,
With gladness we greet thee, this day of thy
	birth,
And noble indeed are your works on the earth.
Altho’ eighty years of sunshine and gloom,
Have chased from your face all its youthful bloom,
Your heart is still young to the laughter and glee.
Of the little ones prattling ’round Grandma’s
	knee.


Still your sons and daughters in sadness behold
Your footsteps more feeble, 'our mother is old;"
O, may the rich blessing of heaven thee attend,
And thy pathway be strewn with joy to the end.

Then when thy sun sets, may the morn's glorious
	light
Dispel with its splendors, the darkness of night.
The welcome plaudit may you hear, "'Tis well
	done
Enter into thy rest with the Father and Son."

Yet we supplicate still at the Throne of Grace
That thy days may be lengthened, all sorrows
	erased,
To counsel and bless the young and the gay,
And see many happy returns of your natal day.

Your sister,
MARIA MCRAE.


U. W. P. C. 

	JAN. 30, ’97. The U. W. P. C. held its
regular meeting at the office of the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT. Pres’t. Ruth M. Fox
called the meeting to order at 7.30 p. m.
After prayer was offered, the roll was
called, the members responding with senti-
ments from Edwin Arnold. Minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Motion
was made and carried that club pay twelve
dollars a year for room rent, beginning Oct.
31, ’96.
	Report on membership book by Dr.
Pratt. Remarks made by Pres’t. for the
good of the club. Program as follows:
	“Late Kate Field” Dr. Pratt; “Cuban
War’’ Mrs. Harker; “Action of United
States on Cuban Question’’ Mrs. Hyde.
Each paper in its turn discussed by mem-
bers of the club.
	Motion made by Dr. Pratt and carried that
minutes be read and approved at end of
meeting.
	Motion made by Mrs. Dickinson and
carried that the treasurer pay the rent of
room for six months. Program for next
meeting read, minutes of evening read and
approved. Benediction by Mrs. Phebe C.
Young; adjourned.
		ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec’y.


RELIEF SOCIETY IN CHICAGO.

	A NOTABLE event of the new year is the
organization of a Relief Society in the great
city of Chicago—so near to the place and in
the same state where the first Relief Society
was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The following notice appeared in
the Deseret Evening News of Jan. 9, 1897.
	“A Relief Society has been organized
here lately with Sisters Bengta Benedict
president, Sister Charlotte Esterbloom and
Christena Soderland as first and second
counselors, and Sisters Erekson and Brum-
ley secretary and treasurer, respectively.
This part of the branch is also alive to its
duties, and it is to them the Elders,
students and friends owe thanks for the en-
joyable time spent.”


MRS. ELLEN C. SARGENT, of San Fran-
cisco, and her daughter, Dr. Sargent, sailed
for Naples Jan. 16, on the Werra (North
German Lloyd) from New York.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SELECTION FROM TIMES AND SEASONS.

62.	THESE are they that receive not a fulness of
light,
From Christ, in eternity’s world, where they
are,
The terrestrial sends them the Comforter,
though;
And minist’ring angels, to happify there.
63.	And so the telestial is ministered to,
By ministers from the terrestrial one,
As terrestrial from the celestial throne;
And the great, greater, greatest, seems stars,
moon; and sun.
64.	And thus I beheld, in the vision of heav’n,
The telestial glory, dominion and bliss;
Surpassing the great understanding of men,—
Unknown, save revealed, in a world vain as this.
65.	And lo, I beheld the terrestrial, too,
Which excels the telestial in glory and light,
In splendor, and knowledge, and wisdom and
joy,
In blessings, and graces, dominion and might.
66.	I beheld the celestial, in glory sublime;
Which is the most excellent kingdom that is,—
Where God, e’en the Father, in harmony reigns
Almighty, supreme, and eternal, in bliss.
67.	Where the church of the first born in union
reside,
And they see as they’re seen, and they know as
they’re known;
Being equal in power, dominion and might,
With a fulness of glory and grace, round his
throne.
68.	The glory celestial is one like the sun;
The glory terrestrial is one like the moon;
The glory telestial is one like the stars,
And all harmonize like the parts of a tune.
69.	As the stars are all different in lustre and
size,
So the telestial region, is mingled in bliss;
From the least unto greatest, and greatest to
least,
The reward is exactly as promis’d in this.
70.	These are they that came out for Apollos
and Paul;
For Cephas and Jesus, in all kinds of hope;
For Enoch and Moses, and Peter, and John;
For Luther and Calvin, and even the Pope.
71.	For they never received the gospel of Christ,
Nor the prophetic spirit that came from the
Lord;
Nor the covenant neither, which Jacob once had;
They went their own way, and they have their
reward.
72.	By the order of God, last of all, these are
they,
That will not be gather’d with saints here be-
low,
To be caught up to Jesus, and meet in the cloud:—
In darkness they worshipped; to darkness they
go.
73.	These are they that are sinful, the wicked at
large,
That glutted their passion by meanness or
worth;
All liars, adulterers, sorcerers, and proud;
And suffer, as promised, God’s wrath on the
earth.
74.	These are they that must suffer the ven-
geance of hell,
’Till Christ shall have trodden all enemies
down,
And perfected his work, in the fulness of times;
And is crown’d on his throne with his glorious
crown.

[Column 2]
75.	The vast multitude of the telestial world—
As the stars of the skies or the sands of the
sea;—
The voice of Jehovah echoed far and wide,
Ev’ry tongue shall confess, and they all bow
the knee.
76.	Ev’ry man shall be Judged by the work of
his life,
And receive a reward in the mansions prepared;
For his judgments are just, and his works never
end,
As his prophets and servants have always
declared.
77.	But the great things of God which he show’d
unto me,
Unlawful to utter, I dare not declare;
They surpass all the wisdom and greatness of
men,
And only are seen, as has Paul, where they are.
78.	I will go, I will go, while the secret of life,
Is blooming in heaven, and blasting in hell;
Is leaving on earth, and a budding in space:—
I will go, I will go, with you, brother, farewell.
JOSEPH SMITH.
Nauvoo, Feb. 1843.
	We desire to call the attention of our
readers to the fragment of a poem written
in Nauvoo by Joseph Smith the Prophet.
If any of our sisters have kept the old
volumes of Times and Seasons that contain
the poem complete, we should be glad if
they would send a written copy to the EX-
PONENT. It was published Feb. 1, 1843—
in Vol. 4, No. 6.
—ED.


ANNIVERSARY PARTY.

	ON the 23rd of December 1896, the
anniversary of the birthday of our beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith, was celebrated by
the Saints of the Fourth ward of Spanish
Fork. Meeting convened in the new
Society hall at 2 p.m., under the auspices
of the Fourth ward Relief Society, Pres’t.
Mary Baxter presiding. An excellent pro-
gram was rendered; the music by the choir
under the leadership of Morgan H.
Thomas was exquisite, and the themes
chosen appropriate and beautiful. Prayer
and opening address by Bishop A. E. Nel-
son; Brother Charles Monk gave a most in-
teresting account of the birth, life and labors
of that great and noble man, and related
many interesting and thrilling episodes of
his life and character, and held the audience
spell-bound by the vivid delineations of the
power and glory of this great and last dis-
pensation, and of the love and condescen-
sion of our Father and His Son Jesus
Christ, our great Redeemer.
	Counselor August Swenson and others
made appropriate remarks interspersed with
music by the choir and essays and recita-
tions by the young ladies of the M. I. A.
Benediction by Robert Holmes; and all
went home feeling that they had had a
feast in very deed.
		MARY BAXTER, Pres’t.
		MARY S. CHRISTENSEN Sec’y.
Spanish Fork, Jan. 18, 1897.


REV. OLYMPIA BROWN, president of the
Wisconsin W. S. A., has a son and daugh-
ter who are two of the most brilliant
young people in Wisconsin.
	ON motion of Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood,
Mrs Alice A. Minnick, of Beatrice, Neb.,
was admitted to the bar of the Supreme
Court of the United States on Jan. 18, 1896.


SPRING CITY RELIEF SOCIETY.

Dear Sister Wells:
	ACCORDING to promise I will give a
brief report of our Relief Society in Spring
City. The Society is in fairly good run-
ning order, the sisters are not only meeting
goers but workers, always ready to respond
to every call made by our Pres’t. Last
year we called committees to visit the home
of each member for the purpose of gather-
ing wool, or means with which to purchase
it; we gathered considerable, and the sis-
ters washed and cleansed it, and the sisters
carded it, and the sisters gathered and we
had the wheels and reels and had an old-
fashioned spinning bee in our ward meeting
house, and got the spinning done. The
yarn was washed also by the sisters and
taken to a sister in the ward who colored
some of it and wove it; when completed
we had 75 yds. of lovely cloth, half of
which was white for under clothing, the
other red and black check for dresses. The
cloth was 37 inches wide. We have made
four large quills and have stocking yarn,
all of which has been given to those most
in need, and we have wool gathered this
year to work up for next season and all
have our own home duties to attend to, and
could not gather wool and get it into cloth
the same season, as we have to wait until
the sheep are shorn and that is late in the
spring. There are many who have no
wool but they all give something, and the
means gathered on that day is all turned
into wool and each sister is credited with
the amount in wool. We gather wheat in
the same way; the sisters take a team and
go to every house and in that way we have
gathered 50 bushels in a day; all are ready
to give something in order to have their
names enrolled as a wheat donor, much can
be accomplished in that way and no person
will ever feel any poorer, in fact they will
have more instead, probably not of this
world’s goods, but a greater flow of the
Spirit of the Lord, and His blessings will
ever attend those who feed the hungry and
clothe the destitute. How blessed we are
to be engaged in so noble a work as the Re-
lief Society! and may we all press onward
until we attain to that perfection which is
within the reach of all who will strive for
it. Ever praying for the welfare of Zion
and the success of our valuable paper, (the
EXPONENT.)
				NANCY ACORD.


MRS. STOWE’S MONUMENT.

	THE children of Harriet Beecher Stowe
do not look kindly upon the proposition to
erect a public statue of their mother. Her
son, Rev. Charles E. Stowe, says it belongs
to him and his sisters to erect whatever
monument may be placed over his mother’s
grave. There are better ways of using
money, he thinks, than in erecting statues.
“If anything is to be done, why could not
money be raised to found a Harriet Beecher
Stowe scholarship at Hampton, Fisk or
Tuskegee?” he asks. “Such a memorial
would, I know, be quite in keeping with
my mother’s taste, and far more useful to
man and honoring to God than some brazen
monstrosity scowling the unfortunate be-
holder out of countenance from its ugly
granite pedestal. The ordinary bronze
statue ought to be regarded as a terrible
penalty, to be inflicted only on great
offenders.”—Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT 

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
ccond-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 15, AND FEB. 1, 1897.


[Column 1]
ANNUAL CONVENTION N-A. W. S. A.

	LEAVING Salt Lake City (via) U. P.
R. R. at 7 a. m. Jan. 24, 1897—we arrived
in Des Moines, Iowa, after two days
journey at or just after midnight, ready for
the opening of the Convention at 10 a. m.
Jan. 26, and answered present when Utah
was called much to the surprise of the dele-
gates, and especially the delegate from
Idaho, Mrs. Woods the writer’s own
daughter. Of course it made a little stir in
meeting when Miss Anthony called us to
the stand and insisted on introducing us
as mother and daughter from enfranchised
states. Utah is accustomed to incidents of
a similar nature, but the Idaho delegate was
not and was somewhat timid, it being her
first visit to a Convention of the N-A. W.
S.A. though she has worked hard for the
ballot in various ways, and made many
speeches in her own state.
	Des Moines did herself proud in welcom-
ing the Convention, and every attention
was shown dear Miss Anthony and her fol-
lowing that could make them feel welcome.
Governor Francis M. Drake on behalf of
the State of Iowa and Mayor John McVicar
on behalf of the City of Des Moines, and Dr.
H. O. Breeden on behalf of the Churches,
Mrs. Mattie Locke Macomber for the
various woman’s clubs, and Mrs. Adelaide
Ballard State President W. S. A. Iowa,
each of these made speeches welcoming the
women to Iowa and Des Moines. So
mmense was the crowd on that evening
Wednesday, January 27, that an overflow
meeting was held in the rear hall, and hun-
dreds went away who could not get stand-
ing room in either the large or the smaller
hall. Thus you see friends, interest is
increasing in the work of equal suffrage.
	It was this evening after Miss Anthony
had spoken in the Convention hall proper,
that when she addressed the overflow meet-
ing she made the most pathetic speech
we had ever heard her make in a Conven-
tion. Her appeal to the audience was
sublime; after reviewing in brief some of the
hard work done during the last fifty years,
she referred to the results and remarked,
that having given fifty years of her life to
the cause, only four states were enfranchis-
ed, (how slow the work grew) and though
she hoped during the next ten years to see
others come in, and may be in fifty years
more all the states, yet she wished it might
be sooner: her magnificent appearance, the
majesty of her figure as she stood before the

[Column 2]
audience, and the pathos with which she said
those significant words brought tears to
many eyes in the assemblage. In her own
great empire state, would it not be a grand
culmination of her heroic efforts for the
emancipation of women, if before she passes
away, eqnal suffrage should be accorded.
How we wish it may be so if only for her
dear sake who has wrought so nobly for this
glorious cause.
	The opportunity given Miss Anthony
and her co-workers to appear before the 
senate assembled, was a rare occasion and
the President of the senate who is also
Lieut. Governor of Iowa was most cordial
in welcoming the ladies. As many as could
be seated on the platform were invited there,
and others were seated near; the room is a
handsome one in all its appointments. The
members were all fine looking men, and
paid the utmost deference to the ladies
who spoke to them. Miss Blackwell of
Boston, Mrs. Colby of Washington D. C.,
Mrs. Bradford of Denver, Mrs. Wells, of
Salt Lake City, Mrs. Woods of the Coeur
de’ Alenes, Mrs. Catt of New York City,
Rev. Anna II. Shaw and Miss Anthony
were the speakers, except that Mrs. Woods,
who was new to the work was simply intro-
duced, and Miss Anthony spoke for her,
though she reported Idaho in the Con-
vention, and made a speech on Friday
evening when the enfranchised states were
all represented on Idaho evening. A great
deal of executive work was accomplished
during the week, as much or more than we
have ever known of being done in so short
a time. Some of the speeches made were
par excellence: indeed Miss Anthony in her
palmiest days has never been more
applauded, and the love of her followers and
co-workers is something marvelous. Mrs.
Catt is brilliant and convincing, she is a
woman of fine presence and is very
“taking.” Rev. Ida L. Hultin carries her
audience away until they are spell bound—
her presence is very magnetic, her elocution
is perfect, and her whole bearing is one
of sublimity. Her subject on Friday eve-
ning Jan. 29, was “The Point of View,”
and she made it an impressive sermon.
Miss Hultin, Mrs. Catt and Miss Yates are
exceptionally grand both in presence and
every other qualification: of course Dr.
Shaw is always excepted when we make
these sweeping assertions.
	There are many other able speakers of
whom we are very fond including especially
Mrs. Avery, Miss Blackwell, Mrs. De Voe,
Mrs. Colby, Mrs. Upton, and many more,
so many they would fill these columns.
	Utah was celebrated last year, and this
was Idaho’s year, and Mrs. Woods had a
fine report and an excellent speech in
the evening which we hope to be able to
publish in our next issue.
	Utah, however, had full opportunity
although only one person was present from
the state to make the representation.
	Next year, 1898, will be the Jubilee year
for suffrage, the first Convention having
been held in Seneca Falls July 19 and
20, 1848, and every local society is request-
ed to celebrate on that day. At the general
Convention in Washington in 1898 there
will be a grand jubilee in which all states
are expected to participate.


[Column 1]
MARY HOUSTON KIMBALL SMITH.

	Sister M. H. Kimball, the subject of
this brief sketch, was born in Jackson

[Column 2]
Township, Stark Co., Ohio near Canton,
September 11, 1818, and was the daughter
of James and Mary (Ettleman) Houston,
who joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in 1830. James Houston
the father of Sister M. H. Kimball, was
intimately acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph Smith in the early days, as also
were his family; he was a member of
Zion’s camp in 1833 and was always faith-
ful to the cause of truth; his daughter
Mary was baptized with her parents in that
early day and continued faithful to the time
of her death, which occurred Thursday,
Dec. 24, 1896 from paralysis, with which
she had been afflicted, having had a stroke
on Monday, Dec. 21st, from which she
never recovered so as to be able to speak.
She was tenderly cared for by her two sis-
ters, Susan Mitchell and Catharine Alex-
ander and their children; Sister Kimball
had no family of her own, and had conse-
quently lived many years alone.
	With her father’s family when a child,
she went from Ohio to Missouri, enduring
all the hardships the saints suffered in those
perilous times, and from there with them
to Commerce, Illinois, afterwards Nauvoo,
until the saints were driven from that
beautiful city.
	Mary remembered the occurrences of
Missouri with childish accuracy, and has
often recounted to the writer some of the
tragedies that transpired in her own
vicinity.
	While living in Nauvoo Brother Houston
died, and his widow and family came out
with the saints who left in 1846, but
previous to this Mary had been sealed in
the new and everlasting covenant to Joseph
Smith for eternity, and to Heber C. Kim-
ball for time, and came in the Kimball fam-
ily from Nauvoo.
	After the death of President Kimball
Mary resided for some years in the Seven-
teenth ward in this City, then exchanged
her property. or sold out and went to live
in Pleasant Grove, Utah Co. where she
continued to reside until last spring, when
she became strongly impressed it was her
duty to work for her dead and came to this
City solely for that purpose, and devoted
her time and energies ever since to that
work in the Salt Lake Temple.
	In Nauvoo Sister Mary had the oppor-
tunity of being closely associated with the
Apostles in a direct way, by waiting upon
upon and ministering to them, at the home
of Brother Jos. C. Kingsbury who lived
over the Tithing office, and where the
authorities of the Church were in the habit
of dining every day while the Temple was
being finished. In this case Mary was a
veritable Martha, as she was engaged in
the very troublesome occupation of cooking
and serving dinners, and if there is honor
in waiting upon the servants of the Lord
she will have a large share. The writer
recalls the fact that at one of these dinners
were assembled nine apostles and two of the
Presiding Bishops, not counting Elder
Kingsbury himself, but cannot now be
quite sure of all their names. That parti-
cular occasion is remembered by the writer
as a wonderful spiritual as well as temporal
feast
	In Winter Quarters, on the Missouri river
Mrs. Houston died of scurvy as did scores
of others, for lack of proper food, and now
after so long a period only two of the family
of James and Mary Houston who were
among the first to come forward and re-


ceive the Gospel are still living, though
there are a large number of grandchildren
and great-grandchildren who are members
of the Church, for which they endured
hardships and trials.
	Sister Mary had many excellent qualities;
she was full of integrity to the Gospel and
true as steel to her friends and to the cause
of truth; she was a woman of strong char-
acter, conscientious, and possessed that
fidelity both to the truth and to her
friends, which recommends itself in the
champions of religion, liberty, or the home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RE-ORGANIZATION AT BRIGHTON.

	ON Thursday Jan. 14, 1897 at 1.30 p. m.
a meeting was held at Brighton in this
County at the Branch meeting house for
the purpose of re-organizing the Relief
Society on account of the death of the Presi-
dent, Sister Mary Ann Hazen. Sister
Ottilie Schoenfeld who had been first
counselor to Sister Hazen presided. Sing-
ing “Earth with her ten thousand flowers;”
prayer by Bishop Frederick Schoenfeld; sing-
ing “Guide us O, thou great Jehovah.”
The Bishop made a few remarks in which
he spoke of the growth of the ward, and how
Brighton was divided now making seven
wards instead of one. Sister Schoenfeld
spoke for a few minutes, and then Pres’t.
M. Isabella Horne addressed the meeting
and alluded in a very sisterly and affection-
ate way to Sister Hazen, and of her energy
in attending the 14th ward meetings, and
how punctual she had been; and gave good
counsel to the sisters, exhorting them to be
faithful and diligent and pray earnestly for
the Holy Spirit to guide them.
	Sister E. B. Wells followed, dwelling
upon the advantages of the Relief Society
and the great work as a whole; thought
many did not realize what a magnificent
work had been done all over the world
through the small beginning; expressed
her love and appreciation of Sister Hazen.
	Elder E. John Nuttall made excellent
remarks upon the great charitable and
philanthropic work of the Society as a
whole, and explanations in regard to re
organizing. Bishop Schoenfeld spoke very
kindly and considerately of the sisters who
had labored in the Society there.
	Pres’t. Horne was called upon to preside
during the election of officers, and Sister
E. B. Wells to act as Secretary. Elder
Nuttall read the articles of Association, and
the result of the election was Sister Ottilie
Schoenfeld, President; Lydia A. Brown and
Elizabeth Sherwood, Vice-Presidents;
Agnes M. Jones, Secretary; Camilla Alex-
ander, Treasurer; Trustees, Hortense M.
Jones, Sarah Gedge, Ada E. Walk. The
following resolution was adopted.
	“RESOLVED, That the President be, and
is, hereby authorized and instructed to make
application to all persons whomsoever hold-
ing the legal title to real property belong-
ing to the Relief Society, to make and de-
liver good or sufficient deed or deeds of all
such property to Hortense M. Jones, Sarah
Gedge and Ada Walk.”
	After the organization was completed,
remarks were made by President Horne
upon the Prophet Joseph, President John
Taylor and the commencement of the work
in the early days, and exhorted each one
holding a position in the Society to mag-
nify her calling, and not envy any other or
intrude upon another’s rights, illustrating
her remarks by the humility of Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith the prophet when he came to Toron-
to, Canada, in the early days, and the
respect he showed to the presiding author-
ities in that branch, and comparing it with
a Dr. Allen who came there previous and
had shown no regard to the position occupi-
ed by John Taylor (afterwards President of
the Church) then President of that branch:
closed with a blessing upon the Society and
prayers for its progress.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made some
pertinent remarks, urging the young wo-
men to take hold of the work and gave ex-
cellent advice, encouraging every one of
them to be enrolled as members.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon made some
excellent remarks in appreciation of the
benefit resulting from being active in the
Relief Society.
	Sister Camilla C. Cobb was delighted to
see the sisters of Brighton ward and spoke
admiringly of the work done by the Relief
Society in love and charity.
	The Bishop expressed his appreciation of
the visit of the sisters and Brother Nuttall.
The Doxology was sung and meeting was
dismissed with prayer.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretaries of Stake organizations of
the Relief Society are hereby officially noti-
fied to send full and complete reports for
the year 1896—not later than Feb. 20,1897
without fail—to Mrs. E. B. Wells Constitu-
tion Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	IN the middle verse of the poem entitled
“The Year of Jubilee ” in Jan. 1, of this
year, the last word in the last lines hould be
seers instead of Love, and would as you
perceive rhyme with pioneers. It is simply
a typographical error.
	AS yet no complaint has reached us as to
the inefficiency of any of the ladies elected
to any office at the last election in Novem-
ber, when women were candidates on equal
terms with men. To be sure there were
but few nominated and fewer still elected,
yet there were enough to prove the fact
that women are competent to hold positions
of trust and emolument;and men are generous 
enough to admit their good judgment and 
capabilities. So far the women seem per-
fectly able to hold their own equally as
well as men on any question that comes
before the Assembly in either house. In
Committee work they are quite as compe-
tent we are told and will certainly as the
women of Wyoming and Colorado have
settled any doubts as to their being either
too weak, or too emotional to take part in
public affairs of the state or the nation.
	IN the evening, Jan. 19, the Y. L. of the
7th ward met at the residence of Mrs. Claire
L. Clawson. Her handsome parlors were
well filled with the young ladies of the
ward. The exercises were similar to those
of other meetings though this was a special
session; the roll was answered with beauti-
ful sentiments many of them original, an
essay on the Apocrypha by Edith Mc-
Lellan, was a part of the guide work;
readings from Eugene Field by Kate
Thomas; Lyle Jones, Laura Foster, Lillie
Webb and Alice Lambert sang a quartette,
which was very charmingly rendered,
“Waiting and Watching for me;” Poem
by Eugene Field, Rose Wallace; some
other exercises were creditably given and
Sisters Lambert and E. B. Wells addressed

[Column 2]
the meeting. Refreshments were served
by the fair hostess and her graceful young
helpers, and the company were treated to
views (through a stereoscope) brought by
Mrs. Clawson from the continent when she .
visited the holy land with Sister Eliza R.
Snow. The evening was a very pleasant
one as well as the afternoon, and we trust
profitable to all, as well as helpful to the
work.
	ON Tuesday Jan. 19, 1897 was the
annual meeting of the Seventh ward
Relief Society, held in the vestry of the
meeting house, Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert
presiding. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer minutes of previous
annual meeting were read and accepted,
also the Treasurer’s report for the year.
Remarks were made by the President and
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, President of the
Relief Society of this Stake; President
Zina D. H. Young of the General Relief
Society, and the Vice-President B. W.
Smith, Secretary E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, General President of the Y. L. M.
I. A., and Mrs. Horne’s Counselors Annie
Taylor Hyde and Clara C. Cannon also
Mrs. Lambert’s Counselors and Bishop
Wm. Thorne. The subjects touched upon
were faith, integrity to the Gospel, humility
obedience, early experiences in the Church,
the signs of the times, storing of grain,
home industries, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
and sustaining it as the official organ of
the Relief Society and the record
of woman’s work. After the meeting was
dismissed all repaired to the tables prepared
where Bishop Thorne asked a blessing, and
a bounteous supper was partaken of and .
conversation became general. Such annual
gatherings are productive of great good and
promote a spirit of sociability and union.


R. S. REPORTS.
BINGHAM STAKE.

Dear Sister:
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Bing-
ham Stake Relief Society was held at
Menan Dec. 12, 1896, President Emma J.
Bennett presiding. There were present on
the stand the Presidency of the Stake, also
Apostle John Henry Smith. After the
opening exercises, E. J. Bennett said she
hoped every society would be represented.
	Pres’t. Jardine reported the Lewisville
society as doing a good work and had con-
siderable grain on hand. Pres’t. Richard-
son reported the Ammon ward Society;
said meetings were well attended, they had
just completed their granary, had two hun-
dred bushels of grain on hand. Pres’t.
Shelley reported the Shelley Society in a 
fair condition. Pres’t. Green reported the
Menan Society, Pres’t. Morgan reported 
the LaBella Society as doing a good work
relieving the poor and gathering grain.
Pres’t. Barrett reported the Willowcreek
Society. Pres’t. Gorden reported the Rigby
Society as being in a prosperous condition,
had three hundred and thirty-nine bushels 
of grain on hand.  Sister Hanson, Coun-
selor to Pres’t. Dabell reported the Grant
Society as doing a good work.
	Pres’t. James Steel also R. L. Bybee of 
the Stake Presidency spoke to the sisters
and were much pleased with their reports,
and felt to sustain the sisters in their labors.
There were several other branches reported
by their Bishops or members of the Society.


[Column 1]
E. J. Bennett reported the Stake officers
as being fully united and holding their
officers meetings, and encouraged the sisters 
to attend officers meetings. 
	Apostle Smith felt to encourage the sis-
ters in relief work, urging them to help 
those who stand in need as far as possible, 
and thought the storing of grain a responsi-
ble duty resting upon the sisters, and gave
many good instructions to the sisters.
	The Relief Society Conference was
brought to a close by singing “Praise to
the Man;” benediction by Bishop Wintle. 
	E. J. Bennett, Pres’t.
	E. S. Brunt, Sec’y. 
	SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society held at Mt. Pleasant Dec. 11, 1896, 
at 2 p. m., Counselor Alvira L. Cox presid-
ing. Opened by singing; prayer by 
Brother Edward Cliff; singing “I know
that my Redeemer lives.” Counselor A. 
L. Cox said notwithstanding the series of
appointments she trusted that we might 
enjoy a full flow of the spirit. 
	Verbal reports were given as follows:
Pres’t. M. A. Frantzen, Spring City;
Pres’t. Annie Hardy, Moroni; Counselor
Rebecca Tucker, Fairview; Pres’t. Olive
Acord, Chester; Pres’t. Elizabeth Thomp-
son, Sterling; Pres’t. Matilda Olsen, May-
field. 
	Bishop Allred of Spring City thought
the sisters were more religiously inclined
than the brethren; they are a great help
and have a noble calling. Said to refrain 
from attending meetings for any length of 
time is almost spiritual death; found that all 
needed stirring up at times, and that 
encouragement as well as a special meeting
occasionally is a great help. 
	Pres’t. Helena Madsen represented the 
Gunnison Relief Society.
	Pres’t. R. N. Allred bore testimony to
the good effect in meeting together, also
to the greatness of the prophet Joseph. 
	Pres’t Canute Peterson spoke of the 
many experiences in privations that the 
Saints passed through in early days in this
county. Spoke of the divinity of the 
Savior, said “He undoubtedly had to suffer
the most severe pain on earth, as He had 
to suffer a portion of pain for every individ-
ual that was to come here. He trembled
and sweat great drops of blood. If God
dealt with us as He did in ancient days it
would sometimes be very severe; but since
the crucifixion of the Savior it is different. 
In coming down to live with us He found 
how hard it was, He also learned obedience
and is now our Mediator, and is pleading
for us continually or it would not be so easy
for us. We ought to appreciate Him; He
is and has been more to us than we can 
realize. Are we following in His footsteps? 
Do we bear the little trials (which are our 
crowns) as patiently as did He?”
	Singing “Praise God from whom all 
blessings flow;” benediction by Sister M. 
F. C. Morrison. 
	Evening session, 7.30 p. m. Opening 
exercises as usual. Counselor A. L. Cox
made opening remarks; felt that we were 
greatly blessed with the presence of the 
presiding sisters from the city. 
	Counselor Abbie Shoemaker said “we
come together to be fed with the bread of 
life. Let us be humble and seek for wis-
dom; if we have the spirit of God with us 
we will not have malice in our hearts, but 
will have a sisterly love.”

[Column 2]
	Pres’t. M. F. C. Morrison reported the
Mt Pleasant Relief Society. 
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young felt that the 
Spirit of the Lord here was a portion of 
the same spirit that is in the Temple. 
Spoke of the privilege of blessing and 
anointing the sick; those sisters having
received their blessings in the Temple have 
that privilege; the Lord is multiplying 
His blessing. “The Temple is the place
wherein you will be blessed and held in
safety. It is a foretaste, or a portion of 
Heaven when we can meet together and 
enjoy the spirit and each others society.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said “the Relief
Society is such a blessing to us, it has 
helped to elevate and educate us; it has 
brought the sisters closer together in sick-
ness, in death and in all things.” Spoke
of faith, that we shonld exercise it for the 
sick; spoke upon the subject of home indus-
tries, we should keep everything at home; 
encouraged the industry of silk culture
among the sisters, and of straw work, also
all other home industries.
	Pres’t. Canute Peterson in speaking of 
the poor said, “can you benefit the poor
unless you do equally as much for the 
wealthy, for it is more blessed to give than
to receive. None can tell the wants of the 
needy better than a good housewife.”
Thought the silk industry would be quite a 
useful one; sanctioned the idea very much. 
Supposing Babylon should leave, what 
would become of us, as it is so thick among
us? Felt grateful and appreciated the sis-
ter’s visit.
	Singing “Redeemer of Israel;” benedic-
tion by Edward Cliff. 
	Morning session 10 a. m., Pres’t.
M. A. P. Hyde presiding. Singing “O,
say what is truth;” prayer Brother R. N. 
Allred; sung “How firm a foundation;" read-
ing and approving of the previous minutes. 
	Pres’t. M. A. P. Hyde expressed her 
pleasure in meeting the sisters again, said
there was danger in lethargy in attending
to our meetings, prayed that we might have 
the Spirit of the Lord here and have a time
of rejoicing. “The Eord does not accept a 
lukewarm person; we should serve Him
with full purpose of heart. He says ‘Try
me and see if I will not pour out a blessing 
upon you’ As a key to safety Brother 
Joseph said ‘If you will follow the majority 
you will be right.’” Pres’t. Eliza Barthol-
omew, of Fayette; Pres’t. Esther Ander-
son, of Manti South ward; Sister Abbie
Shoemaker, of Manti North ward; Mary
Graham, of Milburn, represented their 
respective wards. 
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young said she was 
pleased with the exertions of the sisters in 
getting houses to meet in. “The Prophet
said the sisters little realized the foundation 
they were laying.” Told of a meeting of 
the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple, where
one of the sisters in speaking said she took 
her troubles to God and then left them
there; thought the idea so beautiful that it 
would be well for us to do likewise. “We
should be prayerful and humble.” Related
an incident which transpired at the Kirt-
land Temple, where the opposite power was 
made manifest. Gave the origin of the book
“Pearl of Great Price,” told experiences of 
the Saints of sixty years ago, to show how 
the Lord brings about circumstances.
"There could be chapters and whole books 
written from the experiences of the Saints.”
	Sister M. F. C. Morrison bore testimony 
to what had been said. 

[Column 3]
	Pres’t. Madsen of Mt. Pleasant said the 
complaint of the different presidents of a 
lack in attendance, was the same with the 
people in the ward gatherings; but those 
that remain at home are the losers. If our
people could only get a taste of the good
things they would want more. 
	Counselor Benedicta Hansen of Ephraim
North ward and Lana Anderson, Counselor
of Ephraim South ward, reported the wards 
in a good condition. 
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde of Salt Lake
said if we would desire a double blessing
we should attend our meetings. This Soci-
ety was organized by the Prophet; we are
being blessed as well as blessing, and it 
makes us better Saints. 
	Pres’t. M. A. P. Hyde spoke in tongues
and Pres’t Zina D. H. Young interpreted 
it, giving blessing and words of encourage-
ment to the sisters. Conference adjourned
for three months. Singing “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers;” benediction by
Pres’t. Canute Petersen. 
	MARIA WILLARDSON, Stake Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN  [-]EMORIAM.
	ELIZABETH TUFFLFY CUMMINGS, daughter of
Peter and Jane Tuffley was born in Chedworth,
Gloucestershire, England, Jan. 8, 1822; died in
Salt Lake City Utah on Nov. 7, 1896.
	She left a fond father and mother, brothers
and sisters also many tried friends to cast her lot
with the people of God. She emigrated in 1852
in Isaac Haight’s company, was married to J.
W. Cummings in 1853, was the mother of two
children, one son and one daughter.
	Surely she could say farewell all earthly honors
for they were as dross compared with her
religion. Late years from sickness she has not
been able to attend meetings which was a trial.
She has fought the good fight, kept the faith and
gone to receive the reward which her long years
of suffering and sacrifice entitle her to, and
with joy meet her husband and friends that have
preceded her.
	May she be found worthy of the blessing she so
much desired in our Father’s Kingdom, for it
surely can be said she died the death of the
righteous.
M. A. HARDY.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of our beloved sister, Jane
Trelfall Gardner who departed this life Dec. 20,
1896. Sister Gardner was born at Lytham,
Lancashire, England, July 5, 1828; baptized Dec.
3, 1849 by Elder George D. Watt, was a member
of the Preston branch of the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, emigrated from Eng-
land in Feb, 1855, and was married on board of
the ship Siddons to Brother James Gardner;
she crossed the plains in Captain Ballantyne’s
company, and arrived in Salt Lake City, Sep. 25,
1855; came to American Fork Oct. 23 of the same
year where she resided constantly until the day
of her death.
	She has been a member of the Relief Society
from its first organization, and a faithful energetic
teacher for more than twenty years, liberal and
earnest in all her labors, and a true, humble,
Latter day Saint. She leaves a loving husband
with whom she lived peaceful and happy in a
long married life; also six children, two sons and
four daughters who mourn the loss of a kind,
patient, self-sacrificing mother, and a host of
neighbors and friends who esteem her very high-
ly, and
	WHEREAS, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to remove from our midst our beloved sister and
take her to a higher sphere, therefore be it,
	RESOLVED, That we consider it a just tribute to
her memory to say that we sincerely regret the
removal of our sister, and we mourn her loss as a
faithful and willing worker, and desire to emulate
her labors and devotion to the cause of truth, and,
	RESOLVED, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and the sorrowing children,
and we pray our Heavenly Father to let the divine
influence of His Holy Spirit rest upon them, that
they may realize that though she has gone from
their sight for a moment, yet she enjoys the rest
t


of the faithful, and will come forth to a glorious
immortality. And,
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the records of our Relief Society,
also a copy be sent to the bereaved family, and
one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					ELLEN D. CLARKE,
					EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
					KAREN NIELSEN,
								Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM COLUMBUS, KANSAS. 
Columbus, Kansas, Dec. 19, ’96.

COUSIN EZRA FOSS:
Our dear mother (Rhoda F. Scammon) passed
peacefully from earth to Heaven yesterday morn-
ing, 12 30 a. m. the 18th inst.
About a year ago she had a partial stroke of
paralysis which resulted so she could not walk
for about two months; she got better from this
but never was strong, was very feeble, and finally
died from age and weakness.
She, like your mother, was one of the best wo-
men. Her eventful life was one that made every
one who knew her better. She was a good
Christian woman and a faithful mother.
She thought much of your mother and aunt
Phebe Woodruff and only two weeks ago she was
talking of them and saying their example had
made many good young men and women.
She was always a great friend and defender of
all our relatives in Salt Lake City.
Will you be kind enough to inform cousin
Lizzie Fox and all the other cousins and
friends.
I have just written a letter to uncle Woodruff
which will go in this mail.
Thought I had better announce by a personal
letter to him.
Hoping to hear from you in the near future I
am.
Respectfully your cousin
E. A. SCAMMON, M. D.

The notice of the demise of Mrs. Scammon we
deem a just tribute of love to her and to Sister
Phebe W. Woodruff who was a good friend and
patron to the EXPONENT as long as she lived, and
was a devout worker in the Relief Society her
name should be remembered by the daughters of
Zion and they should study her life and emulate
her noble self sacrifice for the Gospel.
Sister Rhoda Foss her sister was also a valiant
sister in every good word and work, and has left
her name on record as an upright Latter-day
Saint.
Following is the formal notice of the funeral.
EDITOR.

FUNERAL NOTICE.
Died. At the residence of her son
W. L. Scammon on Friday, December 18, 1896, at 12:30 a. m.
MRS. RHODA F. SCAMMON
aged 87 years, 9 months and 6 days.
Funeral services at the Methodist
Episcopal Church, at Cherokee, Sun-
day, December 20 1896, at 12:45 p. m.
Friends of the family invited.


OBITUARY.

AFTER an illness of thirteen months, Mary
Johannah Christensen departed this life on Nov.
3rd, 1896, at Farmington, Davis Co.
	She has suffered much affliction for the past
26 years, though at times she would regain her
health sufficiently to attend to her household
duties and visit among her children.
	She was born at Lolland, Denmark, the 21st of
May, 1827. In her younger days she had a
strong, robust constitution and did very hard
work. Her father died when she was quite
young and she being the eldest of the family it
became necessary for her to labor for the support
of the family.
	In the year 1854 she was married to Mads
Christensen, and two years later she with her
husband embraced the Gospel and soon after
started on their long, tedious journey to Utah.
She was the only one of her father’s house that
received the truth of the Latter-day work, and
when she bade them farewell she never saw
them again in the flesh. They were very loath to
part with her and tried many times to persuade


her to remain with them and renounce her new
faith; but this she would not do, and after leav-
ing them in the hands of the Lord and bearing a
strong testimony to them, she left her native
country in the Spring of 1857.
She crossed the plains in the hand cart com-
pany, assisting her husband to draw the hand
cart containing her infant babe of a few months,
their provisions and the necessary clothing for
the journey. She plodded along through the hot
sand and in the scorching sun, of the long days of
summer without a murmur and when the com-
pany stopped a moment to rest their weary limbs,
she would nurse her infant at her breast and then
place it back in the hand cart and be ready to
start on again at the word march. This she did
for weeks when suddenly she was taken down
with a severe form of the cholera which came
very nearly taking her life; and as she lay on
the rough couch prepared for her in the very
throes of death, her husband called in the Elders
bearing the priesthood of God to lay hands upon
her head and rebuke the disease and the hand of
death, which was done and she was healed in-
stantly. She soon recovered her strength and
continued her onward march to the valley where
they arrived in Sep. 1857.
She passed through the hardships connected
with the settling of a new country. She was left
to provide for her family twice while her husband
was called on missions, and always labored
faithfully and devotedly for the cause of truth.
She was the mother of six children, three sons
and three daughters, they all survive her. May
they ever be an honor to her memory and be as
well prepared to go hence when the summons
comes to them. She was indeed a devoted
mother and a faithful companion and friend to the
needy.
Her faith in the Gospel was unwavering; she
died as she had lived, true to her covenants.
May she rest in peace until the resurrection
morn when we hope to be with her throughout
eternity.
A. C. M.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	HELD in the 14th ward Assembly Hall,
Jan. 8 ’97, Counselor Elizabeth Webb pre-
siding until President Horne arrived.
Singing “Once more we come before our
Lord;” prayer by Sister Clara C. Cannon;
continued by singing “All hail the new
born year;” minutes of last meeting read
and accepted. Pres’t. M. Isabella Horne
wished all the sisters a Happy New Year.
Last year we lost four of our good, true,
faithful saints, Sister Ellen C. Clawson,
Sister Helen Mar Whitney, Sister Hannah
Rawlins Pres’t. Draper and Sister Mary A.
Hazen Pres’t. of Brighton Society. “Let
us put our trust in our Father in heaven,
for we are all weak and have to wage war
against sin.” Spoke of our late conference,
said we had an excellent conference.
“Satan gathers his forces here where the
priesthood is; he has great power, places
stumbling blocks in our way and evil sug-
gestions, but everything good comes from
our Father. We are in the midst of trials
today, but God has given a key-word to be
faithful and humble in prayer. Let us
look over our actions each night and thus
strengthen ourselves day by day. We
must serve Him and keep His command-
ments; if we fail in this life we will fail in
the next; He scourges every son and every
daughter whom He receives. I can testify
that Joseph was a prophet of God, and his
blood was shed as a testimony to the world
of the truth of his mission. I desire to be
faithful to the calling where unto we have
been called.”
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young said “It is
over twenty-seven years since Pres’t. Brig-
ham Young organized these meetings and I
am pleased to see you, my sisters; we come
here and learn to love each other, and feast
on the good words of peace and salvation.

[Column 2]
I received a testimony of the truth of this
work before I was baptized and I have
never doubted its truth.” Spoke of the
falling away in the days of Kirtland, when
six of the twelve forsook Joseph. “O, my
sisters I have seen the sorrow of those who
have fallen by the way; the results of deny-
ing the faith are so terrible. I feel to bear
my testimony to the truth of this work, and
the truth of celestial marriage. I thank
my heavenly Father that the light has been
given; it is nothing to die if we have been
faithful. Keep free from finding fault and
you shall be blessed. May we meet here
for years and years to come, and be faithful
in all things.”
	Sister Laura Miner said, “I can say I
have never doubted the truth of this Gos-
pel.” Spoke of the Relief Society work in
Logan and made other encouraging re-
marks.
	Another sister bore an excellent testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel. Sister
Margaret Brown spoke of her labors in the
Temple and desired to go on in such glori-
ous principles. Sister Julia Samson spoke
of the many things we had to make us re-
joice, and hoped we would be stronger in
another year. Sister Caroline C. R. Wells,
bore her testimony that the Gospel was true
and she had never doubted. A sister in
the congregation also bore a strong testi-
mony. Sister Nunn bore her testimony to
the truth of this work and the power of the
priesthood, and also the power of dreams.
	The sisters sang “Guide us O, thou
Great Jehovah.”
	Sister E. B. Wells thought it beautiful to
hear the sisters bear their testimonies,
spoke of the WOMEN’S EXPONENT; Pres’t.
Young was anxious that the sisters should
sustain their own paper. The women of
of this church should not let this paper fail,
spoke earnestly and impressively; spoke
about the silk, said the Commission was
appointed and twenty-five cents a pound
bounty is sure to you on every pound; also
spoke, of the kindergarten, also that we
should pray that the right one
should be sent down to Washington as
Senator. This matter concerns us; let us
pray about this matter that the Lord will
choose him. “I pray the Lord will bless
us.”
	Pres’t. Horne made closing remarks.
Urged the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT,
read from it at their meetings and sustain
it. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing “Come let us anew;” benediction
L. D. Alder.
		L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.

	Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th ward Hall, Jan. 23,
1897, Sister Lydia D. Alder presiding.
Opened by singing “Come, come ye
Saints;" prayer by Sister Julia C. Howe
singing “Welcome best of all good meet
ings.” Sister Alder made some remarks,
urging the sisters to faithfulness, if we only
proved humble and prayerful. She hoped
the sisters that were wont to preside would
find that we had enjoyed a goodly portion
of the Holy Spirit.
	A sister in the congregation bore a faith-
ful testimony, hoped we would be careful
in what we had to say. Sister Morris sang
“Redeemer of Israel, ” also bore her testi-
mony; she had never seen the day she did
not rejoice in this work.
	Dr. E. S. Barney also made some re-
marks, said she knew this was the work of


God and the Spirit of the Lord was with
us, we should do better every day, if we
could not hear we could read and think,
thereby obtaining the Spirit of God.
Read some remarks made by Henry Ward
Beecher.
	Sister Mary P. Silver bore her testimony,
said she had always known this was the
work of God. A Sister in the congrega-
tion bore a testimony to the truth of what
Sister Barney had said, also spoke of bless-
ngs we derived from prayer.
	Sister Nunn spoke of her labors in the
Temple, of seeing her aunt whom she was
working for, and the many blessings she
was the recipient of day by day, also the
blessings derived by fasting and prayer.
	A sister in the congregation bore a very
faithful testimony, said she felt to rejoice in
the Gospel.
	Sister Young felt to rejoice in the Gos-
pel, had been in the Church forty-nine
years, desired us to pray for her sister who
was sick, prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Sarah Phelps also spoke of the
truth of the Gospel in this our day, she felt
we ought to pray to the Lord more ferver-
ently than we had ever done before.
	Sister Silver sang “How firm a founda-
tion.” Sister Wilkins felt pleased that she
had the privilege of meeting with us.
	Sister Mina Hardy bore a faithful testi-
mony. Another sister felt to rejoice but
felt she had a testimony to bear, and knew
we could call down the blessings of heaven
if we would only ask for them.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy also bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister Held knew if she did not say a few
words she would feel condemned. Singing
“We thank Thee O, God.” Sister B. W.
Smith knew the Prophet Joseph was a true
prophet; she asked the Lord to bless our
young sisters who had spoken in our midst,
prayed for our aged prophet Brother Wood-
ruff.
	Pres’t Horne having arrived made some
remarks, was pleased to see so many
present, thought there was signs of a re-
vival, thought we should have to retire to
the Assembly Hall; she had often thought
of the Lord’s bringing forth this work
through his servants and handmaidens,
that the Lord knew whom he was choosing.
“Let us set an example before our young
sisters.” Sister Horne said she had been
attending a meeting ever since eleven
o’clock this morning. She hoped the sis-
ters would continue to come to these meet-
ings. The first patriarchal blessing she re-
ceived she was told she would have a great
deal of sickness which she had passed
through; she also had a letter read, after
which the meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing Doxology; benediction by
Sister E. S. Barney.
	MARTHA BARROW, Sec. pro. tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE WASHINGTON CO. SILK ASS’N.

	THE Washington County Silk Associa-
tion met on January 4th, 1897, at the resi-
dence of Richard Bentley for the purpose
of re-organization. Mrs. Sarah P. Alger
was re elected president, Hannah C. W.
Bentley vice-president, Julia A. MacDon-
ald, secretary and treasurer. The organiza-
tion purposes buying land and planting a
mulberry orchard, building a cocoonery and
going to work producing silk in a manner
for profit and pleasure, and we trust that
they will receive ample encouragement that


the industry may be made a success. This
climate is admirably adapted to the growth
of the mulberry and silk worms, there hav-
ing been as fine cocoons produced in this
vicinity as anywhere on the globe, and we
are sure that if the business is properly
managed it will not be long before our com-
munity can compete with the importations
from France and Italy, in quality, at least,
if not in price. The work of feeding and
taking care of the worms is light and can
be performed by women and children, net-
ting them a profit that cannot be earned in
other ways. It is hoped that Congress will
make an appropriation to aid in erecting a
filature so that there will be no need of ex-
porting the cocoons, but that everything
can be done here, even to the manufacturing
of the cloth.


LULA'S LETTER.

RICHFIELD, Sevier Stake, Utah,
			Friday, Sep, 18, 1896.
Editor Woman's Exponent,
	Dear Aunt Em:—Yesterday, as you are
aware, Sister M. A. Freeze and myself
came by appointment to attend the Relief
Society Stake Conference here.
	Today we have had one of the best con-
ferences I have had the privilege of attend-
ing for a long time. Verbal reports were
given of nine out of fifteen branches belong-
ing to this Stake R. S.
	The sister who reported the Salina branch
said, among other excellent things, that
each month their R. S. appoints certain
members to visit the meetings held by the
Young Ladies and Primary Associations
during the month.
	That struck me as being an example
worthy of imitation by every branch of
our R. S. everywhere. What better work
can our older sisters find than visiting and
encouraging our young folks and our little
ones, and helping the officers who labor so
hard to keep these associations in active
progression? To be sure, in our R. S.
meetings advice is often given to the effect
that it is a good thing for mothers and all
the older sisters to make such visits to the
younger associations; but the advice is not
so often taken as it should be, and would
be, if such appointments as are made in
Salina were made general.
	Sister E. Ogilvie, of Richfield, told us
that some time ago she felt impressed to
send the EXPONENT to a missionary in
England, to be given wherever he should
think best.  She spoke of this to the sisters
in her ward; some of them gave five cents
each to the enterprise, some ten, and the
paper had been sent and was doing much
good. This example might also be follow-
ed with profit by others.
	Good reports were given by all the sis-
ters who spoke;  the best of advice was
offered by President Bean and her counsel-
ors;  the work of the secretary shows great
care and efficiency, and we feel well satis-
fied with the present condition of this
branch of the Relief Society.
	An informal officers meeting was called
at President Bean’s house after the confer-
ence.   Some important questions were here
brought forth, talked over and disposed of
as effectually as Sister Freeze and myself
felt authorized and able to settle them.
				Sincerely yours,
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. ELLEN M. HENROTIN has joined
the ranks of women journalists. She is to
conduct a club department in one of the
leading New York Sunday papers.
	THE board of directors of the General
Federation of Women’s Clubs will meet in
Washington about Feb. 15 and decide
where the next biennial convention is to be
held.
	MRS. IONE T. HANNA, who was the
candidate for State Superintendent of
Public Instruction on the McKinley ticket
at the recent election in Colorado, is a
pioneer suffragist. In the spring of 1893
she was nominated for the school board of
the East Denver district, and elected by the
women, who turned out and worked for
her like beavers.
	MRS. CADWALLADER GUILD, an Ameri-
can, who has studios in both Frankfort and
Berlin, is the first woman commissioned by
the German Government to furnish an art
contribution to the public buildings. Post-
master General von Stephen has ordered
from her two statues representing the Post
and the Telegraph, to be placed on the new
General Postoffice in Berlin.
	MISS FREDERIKA HASSEL, of Stock-
holm, ex-manager of the pension fund of
the Swedish Women Teachers’ Association,
was tendered a public reception by prom-
inent women teachers on her eightieth birth-
day. Miss Hassel enjoys good health, and
is still able to lend a helping hand in
managing the fund to the establishment. of
which she has devoted herself for many
years.
	WHEN the Colorado House of Repre-
sentatives went into a committee of the
whole for the first time this session, the
trying position of chairman fell upon Mrs.
Butler, formerly of Massachusetts. The
Denver News says:
	“She acquitted herself with credit, though
requiring prompting in one instance. A
member placed himself in line for mobbing
by trying to tie her up on a parliamentary
question. The chairman found no lack of
members to fly to her aid and came through
smiling.”
							Ex.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
 
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.     1

VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 15, AND MAR. 1, 1897.		No. 16 & 17


CONTENTS:
	The Silk Industry—M. A. Till. Slavery As A
National Question—Mrs I. M. Brown. Items About
Silk—Ann C. Woodbury. Governor Drake’s
Welcome. Leaves From My Journal—Kim.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina Y. Bull
Sec. First Annual Report Of The Relief Society.
President Anthony’s Annual Address. Sketch
And Resolutions Of Respect. The New Wo-
man—Elsie Ada Faust. An Interesting Journey
—Ann C. Woodbury. Notes And News.
	EDITORIAL:—Social Gathering. About The
Convention Living Pictures Of The Holy Land.
A Pleasant Affair. A Farewell Party. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—Edward Stevenson—R. M. F. Eve-
ning Thoughts—Annie D. Stevens. To My
Niece Dr. E. R. Shipp—S. E. P.


EDWARD STEVENSON.

HE has fought the good fight, the warfare is
		ended; 
	The trophy’s of victory are many and bright.
Vanished the thunder, and smoke of the struggle
	For him, who was girded for truth and the
		right.
He was first in the ranks and foremost in battle;
	Shoulder to shoulder with the true and the
		brave,
Facing the foe with a power that was dauntless,
	Unflinching in duty, yet eager to save.
Rest, noble warrior,  rest thee for a season;
	There never was soldier, who fought with more
		zeal,
And never a cause, more righteous or glorious,
	Nor ever a foe that could shatter thy steel.
Give him a burial befitting a chieftian!
	Enshroud him in robes that the righteous doth
		wear,
Chant o’er his bier songs of triumph and glory—
Oh! such glory as his no traitor can share.

There on the low mound scatter ivy and laurel;
	True emblems of life that shall never decay;
Now leave him in peace, with God and the angels,
	To rise with the just at the Dawn of the Day.
								R. M. F.


EVENING THOUGHTS.

THE shades of night are falling,
	The day is nearly done,
Its labors, whether finished 
	Or whether just begun,
Are laid aside. While musing
	Comes a voice “Look, look I say,”
And lo! a glorious angel
	With my record for the day.

I read of kind words spoken,
	I read of noble thought,
And of a trying lesson learned,
	Of conflicts bravely fought.
There are resolutions written
	Of the good I meant to do,
And a promise to be humble,
	Charitable, patient, true.

There, in bright golden letters,
	I can see my morning prayer
With the heading: Trust in Jesus
	He will all your burdens bear.


And I stand entranced, enraptured
	With a joy I cannot hide;
When, behold, a finger pointing
	Bids me view the other side.

Ah, it says that in the morning
	As I hurried down the street
A weak, tired, aged woman
	Raised her eyes a smile to meet,
And I passed her by unnoticed,
	Left her hungry, faint and sad,
When a kind word would have fed her,
	Would have made the lone heart glad,

There are resolutions broken!
	Can it be I was so weak!
And I’m charged with being haughty,
	When I meant to be so meek.
Charity is growing weaker,
	While ingratitude grows strong.
And my anger conquered patience,
	When I thought I suffered wrong.

I am saddened by my record
	When I see the debtor side;
All those charges crush my spirit,
	Pain my heart, and wound my pride :
But the finger that was pointing
	Draws a line, and then with care
Writes results, and to my credit
	Stands the golden “Morning Prayer.”

Thus at eve I scan my record,
	So when life is near its close,
Will I look upon those pages
	Ere I seek my last repose;
May the good deeds overbalance,
	And the credit still be there,
On each page the same sweet story,
	“Trust in God” and “Daily Prayer.”
			ANNIE D. STEVENS.


[Column 1]
THE SILK INDUSTRY.

Dear Editor Exponent:
	I greatly appreciate your kind endeavors
in trying to work up a renewed interest in
Sericulture realizing it is an important and
beneficial industry and one which is advo-
cated by the far-seeing and those who
know the benefits of home industries.
	I much regret I cannot report much pro-
gress in our Association of late, owing to
there not being a reliable market for cocoons
consequently no quick returns for the labor;
could we have an Experiment Station in
Utah I am confident thousands of pounds
would be raised, thereby furnishing em-
ployment for women and children who
form so prominent a part in feeding and
taking care of the worms, and there is an
abundance of feed, mulberry trees are
grown throughout the state and in some
settlements whole acres have for years been
planted with them. We keep our organ-
ization in running order and move when-
ever opportunity presents. An energetic
company of ladies of Springville entered
into the spirit of raising cocoons with a vim
last season owing to the inducements offered
by the last Legislature and were very suc-
cessful, but through some lack the favors
have not been complied with, which rather
dampens their ardor. They wish to get
their cocoons reeled up and have depended

[Column 2]
upon the encouraging enactment passed in
the Silk Bill which I trust will yet be forth-
coming, as it will be a stimulus to many
others to raise cocoons.
	This County has been one of the fore-
most in Sericulture and has made a mark-
ed success not only in raising cocoons but
eggs; also spun and reeled silk besides
fabrics of pure native silk some of which
were exhibited at the World’s Fair and
were considered very creditable; the suc-
cess which has been achieved has been by
private enterprise.
	The elements in Utah are not excelled
for silk raising as proved by the beautiful
textures as abundantly testified to by ex-
perts. I hope to see this industry greatly
advanced this coming season, there being a
bounty of twenty-five cents on each pound
of good cocoons verified to by a committee,
and a reeler also furnished for one hundred
pounds of good cocoons certified to by
said committee, (see Silk Bill treating up-
on this question.)
	The late Mr. Daniel Graves an inde-
fatigable worker in the silk business desired
to see a corporate body of influential persons
interested in silk culture, advance money so
this industry could be permanently and
successfully established, returning a fair
compensation to all engaged in the under-
taking. May this industry receive the
attention it demands and flourish in our
midst, rewarding the promoters with grati-
fying results.
				Respectfully
					M. A. TILL,
President Utah Co. Silk Association.


SLAVERY AS A NATIONAL QUES-
TION.

	SLAVERY came into the United States
not as a national question, but through the
rapacity of man. The infamy was shared
by England and the United States. It was
a source of profit to New England, particu-
larly Boston, Salem, Bristol and Provi-
dence.
	McMaster says “The profit was threefold,
molasses brought from Jamaica was turned
into rum; rum sent to Africa bought
negroes; negroes carried to Jamaica were
changed for molasses which, taken to New
England was turned into rum.”
	With the horrors of slavery in the south,
abolition grew in the north. In 1775
thousands of people in the colonies freed
their slaves, Pennsylvania taking the lead.
In 1784 New Hampshire became a free
state. Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and
Connecticutt provided for gradual abolition.
Virginia and Maryland revised their
emancipation statutes and Congress passed
in 1787 the ordinance which forbade slav-
ery existing in the territory north of the
Ohio river.
	At a convention called in 1783 to parcel
out the western lands into states, a code
was drawn providing for the abolition of
slavery after 1800; this was not adopt-
ed. Benjamin Franklin was President
of the Philadelphia Society, whose memo-


[Column 1]
rial so excited the south in 1790. In 1793
the House of Representatives was asked to
abolish slavery, but refused to do so, stated
what were its Constitutional powers. The
Government, this House said “could not
prevent the importation of slaves before
1808, nor emancipate slaves, nor interfere
with international affairs of a state, for the
purpose of securing better treatment of
slaves, but congress could tax $10 each on
slaves imported and forbid the fitting out
of ships for engaging in African slave
trade.”
	From that moment abolition declined.
The northern states soon provided for the
extinction of slavery; the southern states
would not. In 1793 the south demanded
and obtained the rendition of fugitive
slaves. In 1794 the north demanded and
obtained the law for the suppression of the
slave trade.
	Then came Eli Whitney’s invention of
the cotton gin and the demand for the
slave labor could not be supplied by natural
increase. A world of smuggling and kid-
napping sprang into life; negroes set free
by the north were siezed and sold into slav-
ery. The Quakers protested and the
negroes petitioned Congress in vain. The
House declared the remedy lay with the
Courts.
	The slave trade went on openly; ships
were built in our ports, loaded with mana-
cles cleared for the West Indies, took in a
cargo of rum, raised the Dutch flag and
sailed for Africa where these negroes were
snared like wild animals; so openly was this
carried on Congress amended and made
more stringent in 1800, its slave laws. A
ship load of free negroes from Guadeloupe
landed at Wilmington, Delaware, others
followed from San Domingo landing at
Boston and New York. In South Carolina
these men were beheld with horror, they
had once been slaves and freed by France
had become obnoxious and by force had
been placed on American ships and driven
to the United States.
	Their minds were believed to be inflamed
with wild ideas of liberty by the acts of
Toussaint L'Overture, and the horrors of
San Domingo, the uprising, the massacre
seemed likely to be repeated on American
soil. The South asked the House to pro-
tect the country, the bill passed.
	In 1804 the anti-slavery feeling revived.
North Carolina terrified at the negroes en-
tering her ports, asked Congress to prohibit
the importation of slaves from any part of
the world. When Louisana was purchased
a petition to Congress asked that slavery be
excluded west of the Mississppi river.
	At Cahokid, Kaskaskid Vincennes the
French settlements on the Wabash and at
Detroit both Indian and negro slavery had
existed long before the country came into
the possession of' the United States. In
Michigan the struggle for slavery ended in
1787. A little later in Illinois but did not
end in Indiana until 1809.
	Slavery came for the first time into
national politics towards the close of Jack-
son’s administration, but for a number of
years had no influence in shaping political
movements.
	Abolition Societies were formed in the
north in 1831, but did not come into
prominence until two years later. These
Societies were only in a very restricted de-
gree the cause of the feeling in the north
against slavery. The anti-slavery out-
burst in the north over the admission of

[Column 2]
Missouri was a dozen years before an
abolition society was in existence. When
the abolition movement started, it was
avowedly designed to be cosmopolitan
in character. The originators looked down
upon any merely national or patriotic
feelings.
	Had the majority of the North been in
hearty accord with the abolitionist it would
have disrupted the Union and perpetrated
slavery in the South.
	Rosevelt says “Slavery was responsible
for the streak of coarse and brutal barbarism
Which ran through the Southern character,
and which marked the ferocious outcry
raised by the whole Southern press against
the abolitionist.”
	There had been an uprising in Virginia
at the time the abolition movement came
into prominence and this added to the rage
and terror with which the South regarded
the latter. There had been always a
strong separatist feeling in the South, but
it had been local and never affected all the
states at the same time.
	The Alien Sedition laws were more fierce-
ly resented in Virginia and Kuntucky than
in South Carolina; the tariff which so ex-
asperated the latter pleased Louisana,
Georgia and Alabama; but slavery was an
interest common to the whole South, when
it was menaced all Southerners came to-
gether for its protection.
	As abolition arose and grew in the North,
in the South grew the Separatist move-
ment; and it began to identify itself with
the maintenance of slavery. The un-
scrupulous Southern politician saw that it
offered a chance for them to push forward
and wreak almost irreparable harm to the
nation, if by so doing they could advance
their own selfish interests. Their idea was
to divide the Union. Says Benton “So
pursuing their course the 1st was nullifica-
tion; the 2nd secession, and the last
final separation.”
	The abolitionists immediately brought
themselves before Congress in two ways;
they presented petitions for the abolition of
slavery in the District of Columbia and by
sending to the Southern states pamphlets,
newspapers and ridiculous illustrated cuts,
the Southerners tried to pass laws prohibit-
ing these to be carried in the mail; prices
were set upon the heads of people publish-
ing these and the North gained strength
that otherwise they would not have had.
	Calhoun the leader of the South wanted
to refuse in Congress to receive the Quaker
petition to abolish slavery in the District,
Benton took the ground that the abolition
movement was of far greater danger to the
South than the Northern Senators were
willing to acknowledge. Calhoun claimed
that the question of emancipation affected
the states exclusively and that Congress had
no more jurisdiction over the District of
Columbia than over any other state.
Calhoun’s main object was the disruption of
the Union. He drafted a bill against the
circulation of abolition documents in the
South, claiming that the Constitution was a
mere compact between Soverign states and
that nullification and secession were
justifiable and constitutional; six Southern
Senators joined with the Northerners and
defeated the bill.
	A few Northerners joined with Calhoun
and were for ever after called "dough- 
faces.” Benton urged the admission of
Michigan as a free state, and Buchanan of
Arkansas, as a slave state The slavery

[Column  3]
question did not seem to enter into political
parties but their admission was objected to
upon the grounds that both would give
Democratic majorities to the approaching
presidential election, the Whigs therefore
both North and South opposed the admis-
sion.
	In the acknowledgement of the indepen-
dence of Texas and the trouble with Mexi-
co that sprang from it, slavery played a less
prominent part. The West went wild over
the acquiring of new territory and slavery
had little to do with this craze. The men
who went West as a rule were not slave
owners.
	American settlers pressed into Spanish
Texas before the treaty of 1819 was ratified;
they took their slaves with them and when
Mexico issued a decree liberating all slaves,
Americans refused to be bound by it, and
gave this as a reason for their revolt. Long
before slavery had been abolished in Mexico
the colony of Texas had made an abortive
attempt at insurrection, most of the in-
habitants had come from slave states, but
many had been born north of the Ohio
river. 
(Continued.)


WOMANS EXPONENT


ITEMS ABOUT SILK.

Dear Sister:
	AFTER a long silence I thought I would
drop you a few lines. I have been so busy
this winter; when I got home in the fall I
thought I would see if I could not make
reeling silk a success. I have proved that
I can make marketable silk. I sold some
yesterday to the tailors to work with.
	Sister Mary Judd, one of my counselors,
and myself have been to Washington to-
day to help them reorganize; I forgot to
get the minutes of the meeting to send to
you, but I will see that they are forwarded.
	The silk association have been quite
active in getting up parties to make means
to advance the industry; they have also
petitioned the City Council for some lots to
plant mulberry trees on; I trust they will
get it. I talked up the EXPONENT and
succeeded in getting six new subscribers.
	We have had a great deal of sickness this
winter. John Alger was buried yesterday
and there were three children dead also at
the same time; it has been a serious time
with the children here this winter.
	I have labored hard to get the silk indus-
try started but it is slow work. Enclosed
find a skein of silk of my manufacture, and
pass your opinion on it.
	Your sister, in the Gospel.
		ANN C. WOODBURY.


A LAMENTABLE confession from Christian
England Sir F. S. Powet “member for
Wigan.” in a speech said “He doubted
very much whether amongst the members
of the House there were three who could
write as many pages on the subject of the
trinity without falling into the most
horrible heresy.”
	So little did they know of their own faith.
	LADY ABERDEEN is to make the princi-
ple address at the meeting of the convoca-
tion of Chicago University on April 1.
	THERE are sixteen Young Women’s
Christian Temperance Unions in South
Africa, with three hundred members.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO MY NIECE DR. E. R. SHIPP ON HER
FIFTIETH BIRTHDAY.

THROUGH fifty years! and can it be, 
For half a checkered century
The trials of mortality
	Have been thine own ?
		That placid face, and brow serene,
		That restful air and queenly mien,
		Disclaim the years that thou hast seen,
	And all their cares disown!

The sunny days of youth are past—
Those blissful days that could not last,
By memory’s silvery veil o’er cast—
	And age comes creeping on.
		But calm and steadfast is thine eye,
		To face life’s future mystery—
		To fill thy noble destiny
	Until thy race is run.

Can we, who know thy stirling worth,
Regret thy fifty years of earth,
And wish the record of thy birth
	A lesser sum had given ?
		Can we who know thy love and truth,
		E’er doubt thy soul’s perpetual youth,
		Or think that time’s relentless tooth,
	Could make thee less of heaven?

Had I a wish and it were given,
A wish of earthly drosses riven,
A boon to rivet faith in heaven,
	And faith in constancy,
		The sweetest wish that I could name,
		Of woman’s worth or woman’s fame,
		The dearest hope that I could frame,
That there were more like thee.

	Oh, may thy onward path in life 
		Be crowned with all thy heart’s desires;
	And mind and lips, and eyes still glow
		With sweet religion’s holy fires.
	May “He, who doeth all things well,”
		Make all thy future birthdays bright!
	A wish in which thy myriad friends 
		In hope, and love, and joy unite.
								S. E. P.


[Column 1]
GOVERNOR DRAKE’S WELCOME.

[TO THE N-A. W. S. A., JAN. 27.]
	“I AM glad to greet and welcome you to 
the State of Iowa. No nation on the globe
entertains a higher respect and admiration
for its women than that of the United
States, and in the courtesy and devotion
due to the nation's fair daughters, the gal-
lant sons of Iowa are not behind those of 
any other state. They love their own and 
are so unselfish they admire them all. 
	“Of the organizations having a national 
or continental scope of operation that have 
met in Iowa, I can think of none to which 
our people will more cheerfully give wel-
come than the body which now honors this 
metropolis with its presence. 
	“Your association holds its meetings in a 
State the territory of which has a peculiar 
history in respect of the suffrage. Since 
the organization of this land as a part of 
Wisconsin, the right of suffrage has been
denied to no person because of the want of 
property possessions, or because of the non
payment of tax of some kind. 
	“Iowa shares with Wisconsin the honor 
of being a pioneer in freedom of suffrage, 
because in no territory or State whose his-
tory began prior to that of Wisconsin has 
such freedom always prevailed. Again, 
Iowa followed Wisconsin in the adoption of 
manhood suffrage, they being the only 
states outside of New England where such
suffrage obtained prior to the amendment

[Column 2]
to the Federal Constitution in conformity
to the same. Again, Iowa stands alone in 
all the Northwest in never lowering the
standard of the right of suffrage by permit-
ting it to be exercised by any one not fully
a citizen of the United States. 
	“At every election held within her pre-
sent borders, whether as a part of Michigan
or that of Wisconsin, or as the territory or 
state of Iowa, full citizenship has always
been a necessary quality for an elector.
	“You are engaged in the interest of the 
futher extension of the electorate. Your 
association has been working on this line
for years. You bring with you able advo-
cates, among them distinguished and re-
nowned veterans Your right to be heard
and for free discussion will neither be
denied nor abridged on the free soil of Iowa
where the intelligence of the people is 
sufficient to warrant the exercise of free
thought and free speech. Your efforts have
been rewarded in securing partial suffrage
in many of our States and the establish-
ment of universal suffrage in four of them; 
while in foreign lands the progress has 
been equally marked, in Great Britain ex-
tending, I understand, to the election of 
every officer except Representatives in 
Parliament. And you, no doubt, feel forti-
fied in the fact that where the electorate 
has once been extended, in no instance has 
the step ever been retraced. 
	“I congratulate your association on the
intelligence and brave women of which it is 
composed, and the persistency, energy and
zeal with which the work has been carried 
on. 
	“I trust that the association will have a 
pleasant and enjoyable session, that its
members will feel themselves benefited by 
the attendance and sojourn here, and that 
they will return to their homes with happy
recollections, and well pleased that the 
twenty-ninth annual session of the asso-
ciation was held in Iowa.”


LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

		TUESDAY, Dec. 10, 1895.
	Continuing our journey via Como,
Lugano and the wonderful and famous
scenery of St. Gothard, through the tun-
nel which is more than 9 miles long, 26 ft.
broad, 21 1/2 ft. high and takes twenty
minutes to pass through. We had views
of the grandest Alpine scenes. It is an
elevated track in the central part of Switzer-
land between the Cantons of Wei, Valais,
Ticino and the Grisons is a circular plain
surrounded on all sides by some of the
loftiest summits of the Alps. Not far from
Hospice is the source of the rivers Rhone,
Reuss and Ticino. On the brink of a
steep hill was a little church which we
passed five times, the road winding in and
out through the tunnels and mountain
passes each time bringing the church to
view. At one Alpine village we saw a
lovely bride bid adieu to her friends and
drive away to a pretty Chalet on the
mountain side. We wished her all the joy
and brightness in her new home her
happy face seemed to anticipate.
	We had beautiful visions of snowy peaks
and vast fields of sun. While some of the
higher pinnacles were dazzling in sunlight,
in the distance was a snow storm, large
beautiful flakes silently and rapidly falling,
while on the top the sun tinted the snow
with rose, amber and violet; a most beauti-


ful sight which we often see at home. It
speaks of Omnipotence.
	We descend to the valley of the Reuss
where we have grand views of the Alps
and Lake Lucerne, one of the loveliest in
Switzerland, arrive at Lucerne where we
pass the night at Hotel Victoria Bale.
When I came before took a carriage over
the picturesque Brunig Pass to Lucerne,
situated on the Lake in full view of the
Rigi Kulen, Pilotus and other Alpine
peaks; the whole forms a beautiful panor-
ama, while the Lake shores are rich in
legends of Tell. The river Reuss empties
into the Lake, it has several quaint wooden
bridges; the historical are the Muchlen-
brucke, on the ceiling is the picture of the
“Dance of Death,” Longfellows (“Golden
Legend.”) The Lion of Lucerne is a lion
cut into the living rock and framed by vines
and overhanging trees; the dying lion
trans ixed by a broken lance defends with
pathos and grandeur the “Burbon Lily.”
This monument is to the faithful and brave
Helvatians. We ascended the Rigi Kulen
where we have a fine view of Eastern and
Northern Switzerland. The eye sweeps
over eleven lakes, plains and streams, to
the crest of the Jura mountains and over
the Bernese Oberland Alps, a circuit of
three hundred miles. As we ascend the
5,900 feet we see the valley dotted with 
blue lakes, while shining snow-capped
peaks rise one behind another until the
last is lost in clouds. In the distance the
Jura Freu Eiger and many other peaks.
On our return, near the end of the descent
we pass by the remains of the Golden land-
slide which buried all in its ruins.
							KIM.


MISS ANTHONY received an ovation on
Feb. 15, her birthday. The Rochester
Democrat and Chronicle says: “It seemed
as if the entire city turned out to shake Miss
Anthony’s hand and offer congratulations,
and probably Powers Hall never held a
larger crowd. The representative people
of Rochester were there, society, profes-
sional, literary and clergy, and the busi-
ness man and woman were all to be seen,
and a thoroughly happy, good-natured
gathering it was, without the formality that
often marks large social functions. No
one would take Miss Anthony to be 77
years old. She showed not a trace of
fatigue, but every energy was alert, and
happiness and pleasure at the demonstra-
tion of her townspeople seemed to be the
prevailing emotion. Near her was the
faithful sister, Miss Mary Anthony, and
Rev. Anna Shaw and Mrs. Ida Harper,
her guests. In every respect the reception
was a success. It was an ovation to Miss
Anthony, and probably gave her more
pleasure coming as it did from her own
townspeople, than any of the many func-
tions that have been given in her honor.


THE ladies of the Silk Association are
getting along nicely in their endeavor to ac-
quire land on which to plant a mulberry
forest. They meet with discouragements
occasionally, but so far are overcoming all
obstacles fairly well, and if they receive the
financial and moral support they need from
the community success will crown their
efforts, and a silk “works” in St George
will be an accomplished fact.—St. George
Union.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS	Editor
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, AND MAR. 1, 1897.


SOCIAL GATHERING.

	ON Friday afternoon Feb. 19, a very
small but pleasant social dinner party was
given by Sister Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society. The guests
felt greatly honored by the presence of
President Wilford Woodruff, the venerable
patriot and pioneer, to whom this people
owe so much as prophet, seer, revelator,
leader, Apostle, missionary and friend.
	Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith, Counselors in the First Presi-
dency were also present, Apostle F. D.
Richards, President C. O. Card of Alberta
Stake, Elder Oliver B. Huntington, Elder
H. A. Naisbett, Hon Joseph S. Kimball,
the hostess herself and her daughter Sister
Zina Young Card, Sisters Emma Woodruff,
Julina L. Smith, Jane S. Richards, Bath-
sheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells and
Lathilla Kimball.
	The dinner was a perfect success and
social conversation most enjoyable; the
coming together socially of old-time friends
and acquaintances was most refreshing to
one’s spirits. Aunt Zina, as we love to
call her, can congratulate herself on the
success of the delightful feast she gave to
her dear friends brethren and sisters.
	The First Presidency have so many im-
portant duties and grave responsibilities
resting upon them to which they devote
their almost entire time, that it is quite a
rarity to meet them socially, and must be
somewhat restful to them as well. Sister
Zina Young was indeed fortunate in having
them gathered beneath her roof. It was an
especial privilege to see and listen to them,
knowing how wide have been their
opportunities for knowledge, and with
what pearls of wisdom their minds are
stored.


ABOUT THE CONVENTION.

	IT is difficult to decide in view of so
much material as has been furnished by the
National Suffrage Convention what to select
that would be most interesting to the
readers of this little paper.
	Perhaps we ought to tell you that one
of the problems introduced as business, was
what course to take to keep the enfran-
chised states in touch with the National
Association. One proposition was that the
convention hereafter should sit as an upper
and lower house, and the delegates from


enfranchised states sit in the lower house.
	No decision was arrived at but a commit-
tee was appointed to advise by letter or
otherwise with the women of these four
states and try to arrive at some conclusion,
and report to the National officers such
information as could be obtained. This
Committee consists of one woman from
each state, Mrs. Warren, wife of Senator
Warren of Wyoming, Mrs. Mary C. C.
Bradford of Colorado, Mrs. E. B. Wells
of Utah, Mrs. M. C. Woods of Idaho. 
	One of the “new women” at the Con-
vention, and one that made an excellent
impression upon individuals as well as
audiences, was Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
grand-niece of Henry Ward Beecher and
niece of Mrs. Edward Everett Hale. Mrs.
Stetson is a native of Hartford Conn., but
resides in California. She is a poet, writes
short stories and essays,and is an ardent and
zealous reformer; is also both witty and
satirical, yet very sympathetic and has a
most charming personality. The election
of officers resulted as would be expected in
the election of the same board Miss
Anthony receiving the entire vote of the
delegates from all the states. Mrs. Wells
of Utah was chosen to introduce Miss
Anthony to the assemblage. Dr. Shaw
was elected Vice-President at large with
169 votes, but Mrs. Colby had 12, Miss
Blackwell 8 and Mrs. Wells 3 for the same
position. Mrs. Avery Cor. Sec., Miss
Blackwell Rec. Sec., Mrs. Upton Treasurer,
Mrs. Chapman Catt, Chairman organization
Committee, Miss Laura Clay and Mrs.
Catharine Waugh McCullough Auditors,
Mrs. McCullough in place of Mrs. Sarah B.
Cooper, deceased.
	Everything that transpired during the
Convention showed unmistakeably that the
suffrage cause was gaining ground.


[Column 1]
LIVING PICTURES OF THE HOLY
LAND.

	LYDIA MAMREOFF VON FINKELSTIEN
MOUNTFORD has been delightfully enter-
taining her audiences in the large Taber-
nacle in this city during the past week,
commencing Sunday evening, Feb. 14.
The lectures were given under the aus-
pices of the Utah and Free Kindergarten
Associations and no one who has attended
but must feel much enlightened in regard
to the life, manners, customs, dress etc. of
the Orientals.
	The lecture Sunday night was Ecce
Homo, or from “Bethlehem to Calvary.”
Her wonderful power of delineation shows
her to be a living picture herself, capable of
many striking changes. One cannot but
be impressed by her remarkable originality,
and our first intuitive thought was, that
she had the creative or inventive genius of
her singular subject, and had herself devel-
oped and adapted it dramatically. Some
parts of it were exceedingly forceful and
yet pathetic. Her magnetic power to hold
her audience is super-abundant, if one may
be allowed the expression; one would know
nstinctively that she had a depth of
religious fervor almost unsurpassed. She
throws her whole soul into her subject, and
it is hard to believe one is not living among
the people of Nazareth and the vales of the
orient. To those susceptible of intense
reverence for the Savior, his birth, his life
among the people of his locality, his cruel
death upon the cross, the lecture must have
made an undying impression.

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Mountford’s magnificent figure and
royal costume, together with her tragic
manner in the last scenes of this world-
famous subject was a triumph in dramatic
art, such as is seldom if ever witnessed up-
on the stage, and the Tabernacle with its
immense auditorium and gigantic organ in
the back ground, was certainly an appropri-
ate setting for the living picture.
	The following day the lecture was given
in the afternoon on account of a previous
arrangement of the Utah Kindergarten to
give an entertainment in the Templeton
parlors at eight o’clock in the evening.
	A very large number of children were
present as well as older people. The
lecture was “Village Life in Palestine,”
and included many pretty and interesting
scenes of the home life of these peculiar
people of the East, who still maintain the
same habits and customs of the generations
long since departed, so that one recognizes
very easily the similitudes of the Scriptural
sayings of the early days. The shepherd
carrying the lambs in his bosom was one of
the most unique delineations of pastoral
life among the ancient people, who still
maintain these beautiful and picturesque
ways, and live in as simple a fashion as did
their celebrated forefathers and foremothers.
	Perhaps something still more interesting
was the coat of many colors Jacob gave
to Joseph described by her as the mark of
honor; the description given by Madame
Mountford throws much light upon the
scriptural rendering of this beautiful story,
handed down as it has been for many
generations.
	One must see her upon the platform,
however, to appreciate what is said of her
for no description we can give will do
justice to her peculiar line of acting and her
original style of dramatic art.
	The lecture on Tuesday evening was
“City Life in Jerusalem,” giving a hand-
some oriental parlor and a group of citizens,
of those we term the elite, their native
costumes, costly apparel and in fact a des-
cription of the city itself, its walls and
watchmen, the pass word, the lady herself
giving the call as it was transmitted from
one to another of the watchmen, the response,
the Pilgrims as they journeyed, proclama-
tions; the Eastern armies, the custom of
washing the feet, the Upper chamber
courtship, veiling, wedding procession with
its formalities, all these given vividly by
one familiar with the subject, born and
raised in the midst of the people and hav-
ing the rich clothing and resplendent jewels
with which to illustrate; in its tendency
this all partakes of the spiritual side of life,
as portrayed in the Holy Bible; and the
New Testament in many of its passages is
forcibly brought to mind. The songs of
the Daughters of Zion, the midnight cry
the Wise and Foolish Virgins was a picture
which could not fail to stamp itself upon the
memory of any one who had ever thought
seriously upon the actual enacting of the
scene. The marriage ceremony was very
significant, and especially when the sword
was drawn and sheathed again, and the
bride unveiled.
	Wednesday the last night of her engage-
ment at the Tabernacle, she gave the
Bedouins of the Deseret. This gave the
encampment, the tents pitched, Prince,
Princess and group of Ishmaelites etc., this
wasin itself picturesque but when given with
the beautiful rendering suited to the pic-
tures, it was doubly gratifying, it is impos-


sible to tell our readers in a short article all
this or any one picture contained, but to see
and hear it seems really almost marvelous.
There was much to admire in this, not
only the scenes when described full of
wonderful bursts of beauty and eloquence,
but the great hospitality, the angel visitants
—the baking of cakes upon the hearth,
even as the ancient mothers in Israel did,
and perhaps the most uplifting of all the
Song of Miriam and the war cry. The en-
durance of fatigue by Madame Mountford,
the elasticity, graciousness and perfect ease
with which she carried out the entire pro-
gram evening after evening was something
of a “marvel and a mystery,” she must
have very great reserve nerve force, to go
through all those gesticulations and chang-
es etc., and keeping her voice sweet and
clear so as to be able to sing, at the proper
moment without hesitation.
	Madame Mountford comes of a long line
of religious ancestry, and her father in his
lifetime made great sacrifices for the sake of
searching out the truth.
	His daughter considers it her life-
mission to try and make plain the Bible as
she comprehends it, and when one remem-
bers how many professed Christians there
are who do not accept the old testament one
cannot help feeling her work is grand and
noble in this generation of doubt and un-
belief, and the writer herself feels she
would gladly listen to the same lectures
again and again.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

	MRS. WILLARD YOUNG gave an after-
noon party to some of her friends on Tues-
day 23rd, at three p.m., which was a very
enjoyable affair. There were present Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. John T. Caine,
Mrs. David Calder, Mrs. M. M. Barratt,
Mrs. Sophia Sharp, Mrs. Maggie W.
Young, Mrs. Annie Calder, Mrs. Lizzie F.
Young, Mrs. James Sharp, Mrs. Chloe
Eldredge, Mrs. Henry Richards, Mrs. T.
G. Webber, Mrs. Marian Beatie, Mrs.
Sarah Dwyer, and the writer. The time
was happily spent in social conversation
until the call to the dining room; the tables
were decorated with scarlet carnations, the
linen and table adornments including tea
service and all the requisites were of the
choicest quality and excellence, and the
viands were partaken of with a zest and
relish such as one feels when congeniality
and sociability prevails.
	Mrs. H. H. Young is a charming hostess
and with elegant china, silver, cutglass,
fine linen and every other accessory, a
lovely home and furnishings one could
scarcely fail to entertain beautifully even
though not to the “manor born” as was
Mrs. Young.


A FAREWELL PARTY.

	THE sisters, about forty in number, met
by invitation on Saturday afternoon Feb.
20, at 3 p. m. at the handsome residence of
Mr. and Mrs. McCune in this city previous
to their departure for Europe with their
family. Mrs. McCune’s parents were
English and she has many relatives in that
country, and while absent, among other
things Mrs. McCune expects to do, will be 
to visit her relatives and to collect genea-
logical records of her family. The double
parlors were well filled with sisters all anx-


ious to say a good word for one who had
been associated intimately with them in
labors of love and who was also so gener-
ous in bestowing favors and charity to
those who needed a friend or kindly
assistance.
	After happy greetings and some general
conversation Sister McCune signified her
desire to have Sister Zina D. H. Young
preside during the afternoon, and call upon
whom she wished to speak or sing or pray
as she felt disposed.
	The first exercise was congregational
singing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet,” then an eloquent prayer was
offered by M. Isabella Horne. Sister
Young then made some congratulatory
remarks, speaking in praise of Sister Mc-
Cune’s labors and gifts, and of the great
blessings the Lord had conferred upon her
in giving her wealth, and rejoiced that she
was liberal in dispensing to the poor, felt
she would be blest abundantly because of
her humility and generosity, no good thing
would be with-held from her. Sister Zina
then called upon others. Sister M. Isabella
Horne, Sister Margaret Pierce Young,
Sister Maria Y. Dougall each spoke or sung in
the gift of tongues, blessing, comforting
and spiritually uplifting all present.
interpretations were given by Sister Zina
Y. Card and her mother. With one or
two exceptions every sister present spoke a
few words, some made more lengthy
addresses, all testifying to the kindness and
worth of Sister McCune and wishing
her every blessing of health, strength and
happiness for herself and family while
away, a safe journey to her destination
on land or on sea—and while absent that
her influence should be felt in the spread of
the truth, and that when she should return
home she might come in peace and in
safety, to resume her home duties and her
labors of love among the Saints.
	At the close of the little spiritual feast
the sisters joined in singing the Doxology
and benediction was pronounced by one of
the sisters.
	Refreshments were served to all the
guests, ice cream, cakes, chocolate and
other delicacies, and parting messages
interchanged, and the visitors departed
leaving their blessing with the household,
praying that we might all meet Sister Mc-
Cune again on her return in the enjoyment
of social life and sisterly love as when we
separated.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Secretaries of Stake organization of
the Relief Society are hereby officially noti-
fied to send full and complete reports for
the year 1896—not later than Feb. 20, 1897
without fail—to Mrs. E. B. Wells General
Secretary Constitution Building Salt Lake
Utah.
	REPORTS have been received by the
General Secretary of the Relief Society,
Mrs. E. B. Wells from Beaver, Box Elder,
Cassia, Juarez, Kanab, Morgap, Oneida,
Panguitch, Sandwich Islands, San Luis,
Sevier, Star Valley, Summit, St. Johns,
St. Joseph, Uintah, Wasatch, Wayne.
Parowan, Davis. Reports from other Stakes
should be sent immediately without further
delay.
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S 90th birthday
is to be celebrated Monday, March 1, in the
large Tabernacle in a public manner befit-
ting his position as President of the Church.

[Column 2]
The entire program will be in perfect accord
with his office and calling, and the oppor-
tunity given to the people for congratula-
tions will assuredly be appreciated by the
public who honor him as the pioneer
of Utah and a man above reproach, whose
life has been devoted to the good of others
and the welfare of the world.
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion will be held in the
Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall in this
City on Saturday, March 6.—It is very
desirable that representatives should be
present from every branch Society in the
Stake. Meetings will commence promptly
at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., as usual Bishops
and brethren are specially invited also all
the sisters who can possibly attend. It is
hoped it will be a time of rejoicing.
	THE visit of the Idaho Legislature to
this City must have been a pleasure socially
to those who participated in the festivities
of those few days. Senator Joseph Rich
who is, we believe President of the Idaho
Senate, must have enjoyed seeing his old-
time friends and the companions of his
boghead days, and the affair would be
calculated generally to promote a feeling
of reciprocity between the two adjoining
states. We understand the ladies accom-
panying them were much interested in
Utah. We were very pleased to met Mrs.
M. C. Athey, the very efficient secretary of
the State Suffrage Association of Idaho,
and also Mrs. Rebecca Mitchell, Chaplain of
the House in the Legislature and the first
woman ever appointed to that position.
	IT is very unpleasant to be obliged to
apologize for delays but in this instance it
is certainly unavoidable. The Book of
Poems by E. B. Wells so long promised is
not yet ready Even though the author
has made great exertions to get it out in
February. The poems are scattered and
some are, we fear, irretrievably lost, and all
have been carefully revised, which added to
other literary and editorial work is more
arduous than most people would imagine.
The steel engraving has not yet arrived
though we are informed it is upon the way.
We hope when the work is completed the
subscribers will not be disappointed either
in the contents or appearance of the book
itself. Trusting our friends will forgive
the delay and that we may obtain a suf-
ficient number of subscribers to cover the
expense of publishing, we crave the indul-
gence of our patrons and friends a few
weeks longer.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th ward Assembly Hall
Saturday, Feb. 6, 1897, Counselor E. Webb
presiding. Singing “O, awake my
slumbering minstrel;” prayer by Sister
Mary Silver singing “Come Thou O,
King of Kings;” minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	Counselor E. Webb said she was sorry
Pres’t. Horne was not here today but felt
if we tried we could have a good time any-
how and have a time of rejoicing. She felt
those who had come out in this very dis-
agreeable weather were saints indeed, felt
to urge the sisters to be careful of what
they said, to be always prayerful; felt we
should always have a prayer in our hearts,
urged the sisters to be united in their en-


[Column 1]
deavors to help the young people felt much
concerned over them, also gave some excel-
lent advice; prayed that the Spirit of the
Lord might rest upon each one of us that
we might have a time of rejoicing.
	Sister O. Brown said she felt well and
felt thankful that we had one friend to
whom we could turn in every condition ;
urged the sisters to be ever prayerful and
watchful, said her heart was filled with
love for her sisters, she felt well and blessed
the sisters.
	Sister Maria Holt desired she might have
the Spirit of testimony, said nothing gave
her the joy and consolation like trying to
keep the commandments of God, felt we
were indeed a blest people we had much to
comfort us when we laid away our dead for
we were sure of meeting them again; urged
the sisters to persevere in their duties.
Referred to the Prophet Joseph Smith and
his wonderful work, exhorted the sisters to
be humble and true.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said the spirit and
the burden of the Saints seemed to be for
the youth in regard to morality. Said she
was an earnest advocate of Sunday school
work, had always sent her children and
later had been a teacher, said she thought
it was better to neglect some part of our
work and to help to teach the children, felt
in this work we were “feeding the Savior’s
lambs.” Spoke of her Mutual Improve-
ment work, urged the sisters to more dili-
gent and earnest work among the youth of
Zion, referred to the signs of the times and
felt the end was nearer than we had any
dea of. Prayed we might be active and
awake to our duties.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she had
learned the lesson that the Lord never put
anything upon us only what He gave us
the strength to bear; felt we had heard
some excellent sermons today. We must
improve each moment for we must give an
account of every one; what would be the
penalty of the neglect of duty? God was
Omnipotent and would help those who put
their trust in Him. Let us sustain those
who are over us; made some beautiful re-
marks. The parental roof was the grand-
est safeguard for the young people, she felt
to guard the virtue of her boys as much as
her girls. Prayed the Lord to bless and
guard us from this spirit of apostacy which
was in our midst. Singing “How firm a
foundation.” A sister said she had asked
the Lord many years ago to give her a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel that
she might praise Him in the congregations
of the Saints. Spoke of her gratitude for
her many blessings and of her Temple work
and how her parents appeared to her after
doing their work in the Temple; made
some excellent remarks.
	Sister Goss bore a faithful testimony, said
she lived very near these little people who
are called King David and the Virgin
Mary, gave a very interesting explanation
of them. Prayed she might have wisdom
to raise her family, said she would rather
lay every one of them away than see one
of them marry outside of the Church.
	Sister Margaret Steele felt there was a
good spirit among the sisters, said she felt
here was nourishment and felt it was good
to be here. Spoke of her blessings and her
gratitude for the same, gave her early ex-
periences in the Church and bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister Jane James felt to rejoice, she had
been greatly blessed in this last year, bore a

[Column 2]
strong testimony; felt to pray night and
morning for the young people and wished
to do all the good she could for them.
Prayed we might all be humble. Another
sister bore her testimony, felt it was good
to be here. Sister Howarth bore her testi-
mony. Counselor E Webb felt we had
had a pleasant time notwithstanding the
stormy weather and the absence of Pres’t.
Horne; hoped the sisters would redouble
their efforts for the young people and the
Sabbath school work, made some closing
remarks. Adjourned for two weeks; sing-
ing “Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing;”
benediction by Sister Margaret Taylor.
			ZINA Y. BULL, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY.

NAUVOO, ILLINOIS.
	AS very many of the sisters have proba-
bly never seen this report, and because it is
well to preserve it on record in our own
woman’s paper—we herewith give a true
copy as published in the “Times And
Seasons” at Nauvoo, Ill., August 1, 1843.
We hope our sisters everywhere will keep
it as a memento of the small beginning of
this great and grand organization. —Editor.

FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The first annual report of the Female Relief
Society of Nauvoo: being a correct statement of
the receipts and disbursements of the society
from its organization, March 16th 1842 to March
16th 1843, to wit.
Received in donation of money, cloth-
	ing, provisions &c. &c.				$507,00.
Expended in appropriations for the re-
	lief of the poor. 					$306,48
Leaving at the time aforesaid, a balance
	of								$200,52
as follows, to wit.
Cash								$29,00
Shares in the Nauvoo House				59,00
Note of hand by J. Emmett				12,00
Orders								19,00.
Cow, the use of which is appropriated to
widow H.							14,00
Shingles								7,50
Various articles of clothing, provisions
	&c. &c.							77,02

									$200,52
	An apology is due to the members of the So-
ciety for our delay in presenting this report.
We would only say, it was unavoidable in conse-
quence of circumstances beyond the control of
the Treasurer, Mrs E. A. Holmes, which render-
ed it impossible for her to make satisfactory re-
turns at an earlier period.
	We hope the Ladies of the Society will feel en-
couraged to renew their exertions, knowing that
the blessings of the poor are resting upon them.
We feel assured from what has passed under our
personal observation, that many during the in-
clemency of the winter, were not only relieved
but preserved from famishing through their in-
strumentality More has been acomplished than
our most sanguine anticipations predicted, and
through the assistance and blessing of God, what
may we not hope for the fnture ?
		By Order of the President.
			ELIZA R. SNOW, Secretary.
Nauvoo June. 30th 1843.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT ANTHONY’S ANNUAL
ADDRESS.

	THE year 1896 witnessed greater succes-
ses than any other since the first pronunci-
amento was made at Seneca Falls, N. Y.,
July 19, 1848.
	On Jan. 4th the president proclaimed
Utah to be a state, with a constitution that
does not discriminate against woman.
Thus we have two states coming into the
Union with the principle of equal rights to

[Column 2]
all women guaranted by their constitutions.
	On Nov. 3rd by a majority of some 6,000
the men of Idaho declared in favor of wo-
man suffrage, and for the first time in the
history of judicial decisions upon the en-
largement of woman’s rights, civil and
political, the Supreme Court of Idaho—
Judges Houston, Morgan and Sullivan un-
animously decided that the amendment so
carried was constitutional. This decision is
the more remarkable because the constitu-
tion might as easily have been inferred to
require amendments to receive a majority
of the total cast at the election, as a majority
of the votes cast on the amendment. By
the former construction the amendment
would have been lost, notwithstanding that
of all who cared to express an opinion two
to one were in favor.
	If any one will go through the history of
our woman suffrage movement since the
days of reconstruction and the adoption of
the 4th and 5th amendments to the Federal
constitution—taking the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the United States in the
cases of Mrs. Myra Bradwell for the pro-
tection of her civil rights, and of Mrs. Vir-
ginia L. Minor for the protection of her
political rights, and the decision of the Su-
preme Court of the state of New York on
the law giving women the right to vote for
county school commissioners, and various
other decisions—he will find that in every
case the courts have put the narrowest pos-
sible construction upon the spirit and the
letter of the constitution. Whereas the
judges of Idaho did themselves the honor
to make a decision in direct opposition to
judicial precedent and prejudice. So the
Idaho victory is a great credit not only to
the majority of men who voted for the
amendment, but to the three judges who
made this broad and just decision.
	The National association furnished speak-
ers to Idaho—Mrs. Devoe in 1895, and
Mrs. Johns and Mrs. Catt in 1896, and they
with Mrs. Bradford and Miss Reynolds, of
Colorado, held meetings and organized
suffrage clubs in the different settlements
throughout the state. I have not yet learn-
ed how many of the resident women took
part in the campaign.
	We also had pending in California a wo-
man suffrage amendment Your president,
vice-president-at-large and National organ-
izer, together with Miss Yates, Miss Hay,
Miss Mills, Mrs. Sweet and Miss Lucy
Anthony gave more or less time to speaking
and working in that state for eight months.
Never have I known a more thorough and
effective educational work done in any of
the thirteen suffrage amendment campaigns
we have had since 1867. Could we have
counted out the two largest cities, San
Francisco and Oakland, the amendment
would have been carried by 500 majority.
And in this connection I want to call your
attention to the immensity of the state,
stretching nearly a thousand miles north
and south and with an area greater than all
New England, New York and Pennsyl-
vania combined. The railroad facilities are
very poor and long and weary stagings are
necessary to reach the men who are scatter-
ed over the ranches and mines of the great
territory.
	San Francisco is to California what New
York City is to the Empire State. All the
rural counties can be educated so that a
majority vote will be given for any measure
of justice, but the cities of San Francisco
and Oakland contain a very large ratio of
foreign born voters and native born China-


[Column 1]
men, who had just come of age, and these
weighted down the intelligence not only of
those two cities but of the rest of the state.
	But California’s defeat is simply victory
deferred, for the legislature is sure to resub-
mit the amendment and the educational
campaign carried on for the last two years
will be continued the coming two, when 
a large enough number will be converted
to overcome the slum vote, and November,
1898 will add to our flag the star of 
California.
	But friends, it is not only in California
that we are likely to have amendment cam-
paigns during the coming two years, but
Nevada and Oregon, and quite probably
Washington and Montana, and it behooves
us to study well the plans and methods not
only of the two campaigns of last year, but
of all those preceding, and to try to devise 
something better if possible. But I think
the one and only sure thing to carry an
amendment is through the organization of 
a club in every voting precinct of every
county of the state. For example look
again to California. In every county thus
organized, with an active committee in
every voting precinct, who visited every
voter and distributed leaflets in every fam-
ily, the amendment was carried. This 
ought to be sufficient to teach the women
of the states that what we want is house to
house educational work throughout every
voting precinct. We may carry an amendment
with education short of this, but we are not
likely to. I believe if the slums of San
Francisco and Oakland had been thus
organized even those men could have been
made to see that it was for their interest
and the interest of their wives and daugh-
ters to vote for the amendment. But while
the suffragists had no committees in those
low-down districts, the “liquor men” had
an active committee in every possible
saloon, dive, or gambling house throughout
the entire section. I am therefore more
and more convinced that it is educational
work that needs to be done. It is of little
use for us to make our appeals upon nation-
al political party conventions, or congress,
or the state legislature for resolutions in
favor of woman’s enfranchisement, while
no appeal comes up to them from the rank
and file of the voters.
	Our work, therefore, for the coming year
is to push local organization more thorough-
ly than ever before, and to do that work
precinct by precinct, even if we compass but
one county of a state during the year. Just
a suffrage club in one city and another
does not reach the voters. For instance,
in my city of Rochester, with a population
of 150,000, we have one club, whereas we
have some twenty wards and I do not know
how many voting precincts, but the business
of that one club should be to find persons
in each one of those precincts to take the
poll list and go from house to house, leav-
ing literature, holding meetings etc., etc.
within the boundary lines of that one pre-
cinct. Until we do this kind of house to
house work we can never expect to carry
any of the states in which there are large
cities. Had Idaho had San Francisco with
all its liquor men and foreigners banded to-
gether, she would have had as hard a
struggle to carry her amendment and would
probably have been defeated as was
California.
	So, friends, I am not in any sense dis-
heartened, and while I rejoice exceedingly
over Idaho, I also rejoice over the grand

[Column 2]
work done in California. It was a thou-
sand times more and better than that ever
done in any other amendment campaign.
So study the methods of California and 
Idaho, and improve on them as much as
you possibly can.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS OF RFSPECT

	To the memory of Jane Hallows who departed
this life Oct. 28, 1896.
	Deceased was born Feb. 28, 1824 in Lancashire,
England, was married to James Hallows, March
18, 1845. embraced the Gospel in her native
country Dec. 19, 1831, emigrated to America on
board the Clara Wheeler, Brother Phelps was
President of the company, moved with her hus-
band to Ohio where she resided thirteen years.
They then removed to Nebraska where she re-
sided ten years, emigrated to Utah in 1877,
settled in Monroe, Sevier Co., Utah where she
lived until 1881 when she moved to Grass Valley
where she has since resided until her demise.
	WHEREAS The great and supreme Ruler of
the universe in his infinite wisdom removed from
among us one of our worthy and esteemed sisters
and co-laborers, Jane Hallows, and
	WHEREAS, The long and continual relation
held with her in the discharge of her duties
makes it eminently befitting that we record our
appreciation of her, therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That the wisdom and ability which
she exercised in the aid of our organization by
service, contribution and counsel will be held in
grateful remembrance.
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal of such a
life from our midst will leave a vacancy and a
shadow that will be deeply felt by all the mem-
bers and will prove a severe loss to the society;
and with deep sympathy with the bereaved
relatives of the deceased we express our hopes
that even so great a loss to us all may be over-
ruled for good by Him that doeth all things well.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed in our record book, a copy sent to the
bereaved family and one to the WOMAN’S EX- 
PONENT to be published.
		“At the resurrection morning
			We shall all appear as one
		Oh! what robes of bright adorning
			Will the righteous then put on.”
					SARAH BURR, Pres’t.
					JANE WHITEHEAD. Sec.
				In behalf of the Relief Society.


[Column 1]
THE NEW WOMAN.

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED BY MISS ELSIE
ADA FAUST.

At the Alumni Banquet at the University
of Utah.

	Following is the address made by Miss
Elsie Ada Faust at the University alumni
banquet last year:
	I was pleased indeed when I was called
upon to respond to the toast of the “New
Woman: the expectancy and rose of the
fair state.” The subject—truly a great
one—is one near to my heart, and the only
fault I had to find with it was in the
adjective new.
	The new woman, properly speaking, is
the female infant born today or yesterday
and to be considered on such occasions as
this some twenty years hence.
	Then there is the new woman of the
funny papers—not to be considered at all—
mythical monstrosities clothed in men’s
attire, endowed with men’s faults, equipped
for men’s work; without womanly beauty,
womanly dignity and wholly destitute of
human sense.
	A creature born of some over-tired brain
at a time of desperation, with the laudable
excuse that it were better to make people
laugh than to weep.
	The new woman we shall consider,
though, is not a new woman any more

[Column 2]
than the sun that shone today is a new sun
or the stars that shine tonight are new
stars To one who has only begun to see
they might all appear new, but they have
ever existed, conforming always to God’s
immutable laws.
	The smouldering thoughts and feelings
accumulating in woman since the time that
Eve and her husband were thrust from the
Garden of Eden began to make themselves
manifest when the Pilgrim Mothers and
their husbands severing themselves from
their old life, set out for the rocky shores of
America; became more tangible when our
Pioneer Mothers with their husbands turn-
ed their backs on old disquietude and
dauntlessly pursued their way toward the
setting sun here in this fair state to seek
peace and room for their greater needs;
and have culminated in a set of women
with opportunities to cultivate the brains
and muscles God has given them, and with
brains and muscles to cultivate greater
opportunities.
	The alarmist who with upturned eyes and
an ominous shake of the head fears that
woman is becoming too independent has
cause for his fears.
	She has only just begun to know her
strength, and she is going to try that
strength to the utmost.
	She is going to be just as independent as
her heart, conscience and soul will permit.
She will never rest until she has tasted all
the sweets and bitternesses heretofore re-
served for man only. She will know what
there is in life without any second hand
opinions from her brother.
	With such aids as this noble institution
she will seek the knowledge necessary for
her advancement, and, better still, she will
train her daughters into that much feared
independence and greater expansion of
spirit; but best of all, she will train her
sons that their love for the human race lies
not in the hindering, but in the helping of
woman’s progress.
	The idea that woman is not born with as
great mental attainments as man I will not
for one moment entertain; for so long as 
women are the mothers of their sons, they
must bequeath according to the laws of
heredity their mental, moral and physical
characteristics to those sons, and so long as
women have men for their fathers by those
same laws must they inherit so-called
masculine qualities.
	Writers and speakers have been so busy
separating the sexes and theoretically en-
dowing each with separate elements of
character that they have not had time to
see (and the misunderstanding of this sub-
ject depends largely on the lack of seeing)
that there is no difference, for if we look
well we will find that all the vanities
and faults supposed to be wholly feminine
may be found just as often in man as in
woman; and all the noble traits and attri-
butes of which men have assumed a
monopoly appear just as often in woman.
    *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
	The new woman, or rather woman in
her new light, does not look down on her
fellow man as is commonly supposed; not at
all, for she knows however short he may
fall below the ideal, she may not do any
better.
	And you will find, though bicycle
mounted, with her voluminous sleeves set
to the breezes, she will not take more than
her half of the road. All she asks is equal
start and privileges down the race of life,


The question is often asked, Will the
world be any better for the new influence
women will have?
	As well ask if the world will be better
for the vapor high up amongst the lofty
peaks of the Alps condensing into pure,
white snow which crowds down veined
with denser crystal and loaded with impure
moraines to meet the warm kisses of the
sun, by which it is converted into tiny
rivulets that wend their way to the blue
lakes beyond, carrying life and joy to
millions of growing things.
	Better or worse though she may make
the world, she will have the satisfaction
that men have ever craved, that of gratify-
ing the ambition born within her.

	“A few can touch the magic string,
	   And noisy fame is proud to win them;
	Alas for those who never sing.
	   But die with all their music in them.

	Nay, weep not for the dead alone
	   Whose song has told their heart’s sad story;
	Weep for the voiceless who have known
	   The cross but not the crown of glory.”

	To me the heroes of history have always
been the heroines. They have been the
mothers by whose suffering the human
race has been propagated—the women who
in any great undertaking have bravely and
patiently, with willing hearts and helping
bands, been ever ready to bear their part.
	I can say, as the most of you can say,
that the best friend of my life has been a
woman. I might say more, that the best
friends I ever had have been women. The
greatest helps in mental, moral, physical
and social ways, and his is indeed an un-
happy lot which does not include such
friends; and he is indeed ungrateful, un-
worthy of being an American, much less
a citizen of our fair state, who can say he
has not drawn his best inspiration from a
woman.
	My faith in woman is great and I extend
my hand to all those who have helped her
to the added privileges conferred with the
coming in of the new state. She will
guard them well as she does her other
treasures, and, new or old, she will not be
found wanting in the future any more than
in the past.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.

	Sister Ann C. Woodbury and Emma
Morris of the Stake Presidency of the Relief
Society, left St. George with the home
missionaries, Brothers Brigham Jarvis and
Charles Seegmiller. We traveled thirteen
miles and camped at the Indian Farm,
Bishop James Andrus and Thomas Judd
being on their way to the Muddy.
	The 21st of Sep. we went to Littlefield
and had dinner with Brother Albert Farmer
and family. We traveled on to Bunker-
ville, the distance of forty-three miles. We
were ready for a good night’s rest which we
had at Bishop Bunker’s.
	The 22nd we had a general meeting at 10
o’clock with the missionaries. We had a
very enjoyable time and a good turn out.
At 2 o’clock we met with the Primaries;
some of the brethren with the mothers filled
up the house, and we felt the Lord had
been with us. In the evening we held a
Relief Society meeting and had an enjoy-
able time, also had good encouragement
from the brethren; the house was full to
overflowing.

[Column 2]
	The 23rd Bishop Bunker and a young
missionary accompanied us to the Muddy.
We crossed the river many times and
traveled through a country where there
seemed to be nothing for either man or
beast.
	We arrived at St. Joseph in time to have
supper with Brother Huntsman and hold
an evening meeting.
	Bishop Jones with a number of the
people of Overton met us here and the
house was full. A number of families have
moved here from Dakota and several of
them were at the meeting; they paid strict
attention. One lady congratulated us and
thought we were doing a good work. I
understood there were sixteen families and
only six houses, the rest live in tents and
wagons. This valley is calculated to sus-
tain many people.
	The 24th was Sunday. In the morning
we went to Overton and met with the
Sunday school which is well conducted.
After the exercises the missionaries gave
some good instructions. At 1 o’clock we
met with the people and had an interesting
time, they meet in a large tent. They
have the rock ready to build a meeting
house. We dined with Brother and Sister
Johnson. Sister Morris and myself called
on Brigham Whitmore and family, he is
building a new store. We left in time to
hold an evening meeting at St. Thomas.
Here Sister Whitney kindly entertained a
number of Overton people who followed us
on.
	Here we had an interesting time, Bishops
Andrus and Judd, also Bishops Jones and
Bunker met with us, and we truly had a
time of rejoicing. Sister Gentry kindly en-
tertained us for the night.
	The 25th we left St. Thomas feeling re-
freshed, and turned our faces homeward.
Bishop Bunker being along we went up a
dry wash by a mine, to save crossing the
river so much, the mine is fifteen miles
from Bunkerville. Sister Morris and my-
self visited a mine for the first time, they
seem to be doing quite a business, I think
they are down a hundred feet, hope it will
be profitable.
	We got into Bunkerville late in the eve-
ning. The brethren were in a meeting and
we went to bed feeling the need of rest.
We were very kindly entertained by Bishop
Bunker and family.
	The 26th we met with the people of
Musquito Flat, we met at 10 o'clock after
traveling six miles, this belongs to the
Bunkerville ward Brother Nephi Johnson
is the presiding Elder. Here we found a
number of families striving to make homes
for themselves and their children. I think
there is a very good people here, judging
from the way they turned out to meeting.
	We went on to Littlefield and had an eve-
ning meeting, all that were able turned out
there are but six families located here, Bishops
Andrus and Judd joined us in this meeting,
having traveled from the Muddy that day;
they bore testimony to the good work that
was being accomplished.
	On our trip we have urged the necessity
of planting mulberry trees, and so lay a
foundation for the development of the silk
industry.
	One of the brethren and wife had a little
daughter born that morning and wished to
name her after us.
	On the 27th we reached home, having
traveled two hundred miles. We trust we
have done gome good in urging the saints

[Column 3]
to their duties. Ever praying for the wel-
fare of Zion I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			ANN C. WOODBURY.
St. George, Jan. 20, 1897.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	THE Committee on Elections has reported
adversely on presidential woman suffrage
in Kansas.
	THE fact that a man gives up his seat to
a woman in a street car is no evidence that
he does not let his wife bring in the coal.—
Syracuse Post.
	IN Lexington, Ky., Mrs. Allen Harrison
has been president of the board of education
for a year. Her administration has been
most successful. The board is composed of
nine men and three women.
	THE Iowa Capital says: “One of the
actions of the joint committee on elections
will greatly please the distinguished women
who visited Des Moines in January, and
that is the adherence to the recommenda-
tion of the code commissioners that at least
one trustee of every State institution hav-
ing children in its charge must be a
woman.
	THE Constitutional Convention of the
State of Delaware, on Feb 16, voted 17 to
7 against striking out the word male from
the section of the constitution relating to
general elections. Those voting in favor
of striking out were all Republicans.
Seven Republicans and ten Democrats voted
against striking out. Not a Democrat
present voted for equal suffrage.
	EN route from the Convention Miss
Anthony went to visit Mrs. Sewall at In-
dianapolis; Mrs. Catt and Miss Hay attend-
ed a meeting of the Chicago Political Club,
and on Mrs. Catt’s earnest presentation of
the needs of the organization work, over
two hundred and fifty dollars was con-
tributed by the members present.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
			WILL BEGIN HER
			Class : in : Obstetrics
	On Monday April 12th 1897 with improved
facilities for instruction in this important study.
Special terms are given to societies sending
students. For further particulars communicate
with
			ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D.
		75 Center St Salt Lake City Utah.
R. K. THOMAS
		Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
			SALT LAKE CITY.
			The Leading Retail
				Cash House
R. K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. <H.O.>
Vol. 25.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1897.
No. 18 <113>


CONTENTS:
	Slavery As A National Question—Mrs. I.
Cameron Brown. Silver Wedding—E. P. F.
Mrs. M. C. Woods Speech. In Memoriam. R.
S. Reports. U. W. P. C.—Orielle Curtis Sec.
Degrees: For Women.
	EDITORIAL:—The Childrens’ Jubilee. A
Tribute, Of Honor. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—A Vision—The Prophet Joseph
Smith.


[Column 1]
A VISION.

ANSWER TO W. W. PHELPS.
(Go With Me.)

I WILL go, I will go, to the home of the Saints,
	Where the virtue’s the value, and life the
		reward;
But before I return to my former estate
	I must fulfill the mission I had from the Lord.

Wherefore, hear, O ye heavens, and give ear O
		ye earth;
	And rejoice ye inhabitants truly again;
For the Lord he is God, and his life never ends,
	And besides him there ne’er was a Savior
		of men.

His ways are a wonder; his wisdom is great;
	The extent of his doings there’s none can un-
		veil;
His purposes fail not; from age unto age
	He still is the same, and his years never fail.

His throne is the heavens, his lifetime is all
	Of eternity now and eternity then;
His union is power, and none stays his hand,—
	The Alpha, Omega, for ever: Amen.

For thus saith the Lord, in the spirit of truth,
	I am merciful, gracious, and good unto those
That fear me, and live for the life that’s to come;
	My delight is to honor the saints with repose;

That serve me in righteousness true to the end;
	Eternal’s their glory and great their reward;
I’ll surely reveal all my mysteries to them,—
	The great hidden mysteries in my kingdom
		stored—

From the council in Kolob, to time on the earth
	And for ages to come unto them I will show
My pleasure and will, what my kingdom will do;
	Eternity’s wonders they truly shall know.

Great things of the future I’ll show unto them,
	Yea, things of the vast generations to rise;
For their wisdom and glory shall be very great,
	And their pure understanding extend to the
		skies:

And before them the wisdom of wise men shall
		cease,
	And the nice understanding of prudent ones
		fail!
For the light of my spirit shall light mine elect,
	And the truth is so mighty’t will every prevail.

And the secrets and plans of my will I’ll reveal;
	The sanctified pleasures when earth is renewed,
What the eye hath not seen, nor the ear hath yet
		heard;
	Nor the heart of the natural man ever hath
		viewed.

[Column 2]
I, Joseph, the prophet, in spirit beheld,
	And the eye of the inner man truly did see
Eternity sketched in a vision from God,
	Of what was, and now is, and yet is to be.

Those things which the Father ordained of old,
	Before the world was, or a system had run,—
Through Jesus the Maker and Savior of all;
The only begotten, (Messiah) His Son.

Of whom I bear record, as all prophets have,
	And the record I bear is the fulness,—yea even
The truth of the Gospel of Jesus—the Christ,
	With whom I conversed in the vision of heaven

For while in the act of translating his word,
	Which the Lord in his grace had appointed to
		me,
I came to the gospel recorded by John,
	Chapter fifth and the twenty-ninth verse which
		you’ll see.
	Which was given as follows:

“Speaking of the resurrection of the dead,—
“Concerning those who shall hear the voice of
“the son of man—
“And shall come forth:
“They who have done good in the resurrection
“of the just.
“And they who have done evil in the resurrection
“of the unjust.”

I marveled at these resurrections, indeed!
	For it came unto me by the spirit direct:—
And while 1 did meditate what it all meant,
	The Lord touched the eye of my own inte-
		lect:—

Hosanna forever! they opened anon,
	And the glory of God shone around where I
		was;
And there was the Son, at the Father’s right
		hand,
	In fulness of glory, and holy applause.

I beheld round the throne holy angels and hosts,
	And sanctified beings from worlds that have
		been,
In holiness worshipping God and the Lamb,
	For ever and ever, amen and amen !

And now after all of the proofs made of him,
	By witnesses truly, by whom he was known,
This is mine, last of all, that he lives; yes he
		lives!
	And sits at the right hand of God on his throne.

And I heard a great voice bearing record from
		heaven,
	He’s the Savior, and only begotten of God—
By him, of him, and through him, the worlds
		were all made,
	Even all that career in the heavens so broad.

Whose inhabitants, too, from the first to the last,
	Are saved by the very same Savior of ours;
And, of course, are begotten God’s daughters
		and sons,
	By the very same truths, and the very same
		powers.

And I saw and bear record of warfare in heaven;
	For an angel of light in authority great,
Rebelled against Jesus, and sought for his power
	But was thrust down to woe from his Godified
		state. 

And the heavens all wept, and the tears dropped
		like dew,
	That Lucifer, son of the morning had fell!

[Column 3]
Yea, is fallen! is fallen, and become, Oh, alas!
	The son of perdition; the devil of hell!
And while I was yet in the spirit of truth,
	The commandment was: write ye the vision all
		out;
For Satan, old serpent, the devil’s for war,—
	And yet will encompass the saints round about.

And I saw. too, the suffering and misery of those,
	(Overcome by the devil, in warfare and fight,)
In hell-fire, and vengeance; the doom of the
		damned;
	For the Lord said, the vision is further: so
		write.

For thus saith the Lord, now concerning all those
	Who know of my power and partake of the
		same;
And suffer themselves, that they be overcome
	By the power of Satan; despising my name:—

Defying my power, and denying the truth;—
	They are they—of the world, or of men most
		forlorn,
The sons of Perdition, of whom, ah! I say,
	’T were better for them had they never been
		born!

They’re vessels of wrath, and dishonor to God,
	Doomed to suffer his wrath in the regions of
		woe,
Through the terrific night of eternity’s round;
	With the devil and all of his angels below:

Of whom it is said, no forgiveness is given, 
	In this world, alas! nor the world that’s to
		come;
For they have denied the spirit of God,
	After having received it: and misery’s their
		doom.

And denying the only begotten of God,—
	And crucify him to themselves, as they do,
And openly put him to shame in their flesh.
	By gospel they cannot repentance renew.

They are they, who must go to the great lake of
		fire,
	Which burneth with brimstone, yet never
		consumes,
And dwell with the devil, and angels of his, 
	While eternity goes and eternity comes.

They are they, who must groan through the great
		second death,
	And are not redeemed in the time of the Lord;
While all the rest are, through the triumph of
		Christ,
	Made partakers of grace by the power of his
		word.

The mystery of Godliness truly is great;—
	The past, and the present, and what is to be;
And this is the gospel!—glad tidings to all,
	Which the voice from the heavens bore record
		to me.

That he came to the world in the middle of time
	To lay down his life for his friends and his foes,
And bear away sin as a mission of love:
	And sanctify earth for a blessed repose.

’Tis decreed that he’ll save all the work of his
		hands,
	And sanctify them by his own precious blood;
And purify earth for the Sabbath of rest,
	By the agent of fire, as it was by the flood.


[Column 1]
The Savior will save all his Father did give, 
	Even all that he gave in the regions abroad,
Save the sons of perdition: They,re lost; ever
		lost,
	And can never return to the presence of God.
They are they, who must reign with the devil in 
		hell,
	In eternity now, and eternity then,
Where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not
		quenched;—
	And the punishment still is eternal. Amen.
And which is the torment apostates receive,
	But the end, or the place where the torment
		began,
Save to them who are made to partake of the 
		same,
	Was never, nor will be, revealed unto man. 
Yet God shows by vision a glimpse of their fate,
	And straightway he closes the scene that was
		shown:
So the width, or the depth, or the misery thereof,
	Save to those that partake, is forever unknown
And while I was pondering, the vision was closed.
	And the voice said to me, write the vision for
		lo!
’Tis the end of the scene of the sufferings of 
		those,
	Who remain filthy still in their anguish and woe.
And again I bear record of heavenly things,
	Where virtue’s the value above all’s that’s
		priced—
Of the truth of the gospel concerning the just,
	That rise in the first resurrection of Christ.
Who received and believed, and repented Iike- 
		wise,
	And then were baptized, as a man always was,
Who asked and received a remission of sin,
	And honored the kingdom by keeping its laws.
Being buried in water as Jesus had been,
	And keeping the whole of his holy commands,
They received the gift of the spirit of truth,
	By the ordinance truly of laying on hands. 
For these evermore, by their faith and their 
		works,
	Being tried in their life-time, as purified gold, 
And sealed by the spirit of promise, to life,
	By men called of God, as was Aaron of old.
They are they, of the church of the first born of
		God,—
	And unto whose hands he commiteth all things;
For they hold the keys of the kingdom of heaven,
	And reign with the Savior, as priests and as 
		kings.
They’re priests of the order of Melchisedek,
	Like Jesus (from whom is this highest reward,)
Receiving a fullness of glory and light;
	As written: they’re Gods; even sons of the 
		Lord.
So all things are theirs; yes, of life, or of death;
	Yes, whether things now, or to come, all are
		theirs,
And they are the Savior’s, and he is the Lord’s,
	Having overcome all, as eternity’s heirs.
’Tis wisdom that man never glory in man, 
	But give God the glory for all that he hath;
For the righteous will walk in the presence of 
		God,
	While the wicked are trod under foot in his 
		wrath.
Yea, the righteous shall dwell in the presence of
		God,
	And Jesus, forever, from earth’s second birth— 
For when he comes down in the splendor of 
		heaven,
	All these he’ll bring with him, to reign on the
		earth.

[Column 2]
These are they that arise in their bodies of flesh,
	When the trump of the first resurrection shall 
		sound;
These are they that come up to Mount Zion in 
		life,
	Where the blessings and gifts of the spirit
		abound.
These are they that have come to the heavenly
		place;
	To the numberless courses of angels above:
To the city of God; e’en the holiest of all,
	And the home of the blessed, the fountain of 
		love:
To the church of old Enoch, and of the first born;
	And general assembly of ancient renowned,
Whose names are all kept in the archives of
		heaven,
	As chosen and faithful, and fit to be crowned.
These are they that are perfect throngh Jesus’
		own blood, 
	Whose bodies celestial are mentioned by Paul,
Where the sun is the typical glory thereof,
	And God and his Christ, are the true judge of
		all.
Again I beheld the terrestrial world,
	In the order and glory of Jesus, go on;
’T was not as the church of the first born of God,
	But shone in its place, as the moon to the sun. 
Behold, these are they that have died without 
		law;
	The heathen of ages that never had hope,
And those of the region and shadow of death,
	The spirits in prison, that light has brought up.
To the spirits in prison the Savior once preached,
	And taught them the gospel, with powers
		afresh;
And then were the living baptized for the dead,
	That they might be judged as if men in the 
		flesh.
These are they that are honorable men of the 
		earth;
	Who were blinded and duped by the cunning
		of men:
They received not the truth of the Savior at first;
	But did when they heard it in prison again.
Not valiant for truth they obtained not the crown,
	But are of that glory that’s typed by the moon:
They are they, that come into the presence of 
		Christ,
	But not to the fulness of God, on his throne. 
Again I beheld the telestial as third, 
	The lesser, or starry world, next in its place.
For the leaven must leaven three measures of meal
	And every knee bow that is subject to grace. 
These are they that received not the gospel of
		Christ,
	Or evidence, either, that he ever was;
As the stars are all different in glory and light,
	So differs the glory of these by the laws. 
These are they that deny not the spirit of God, 
	But are thrust down to hell, with the devil, for
		sins,
As hypocrites, liars, whoremongers and thieves,
	And stay ’til the last resurrection begins.
’Til the Lamb shall have finished the work he 
		begun;
	Shall have trodden the wine press in fury
		alone,
And overcome all by the power of his might:
	He conquers to conquer and save all his own.
These are they that receive not a fulness of light, 
	From Christ, in eternity's world where they are,
The terrestrial sends them the Comforter, though;
	And ministering angels to happify there.

[Column 3]
And so the telestial is ministered to,
	By ministers from the terrestrial one,
As terrestrial is, from the celestial throne;
	And the great, greater, greatest seem stars,
		moon, and sun. 
And thus I beheld in the vision of heaven, 
	The telestial glory, dominion and bliss, 
Surpassing the great understanding of men,—
	Unknown, save revealed, in a world vain as
		this.
And lo, I beheld the terrestrial too, 
	Which excels the telestial in glory and light, 
In splendor, and knowledge, and wisdom, and
		joy,
	In blessings, and graces, dominion and might. 
I beheld the celestial, in glory sublime:
	Which is the most excellent kingdom that is,—
Where God, e’en the Father, in harmony reigns;
	Almighty, supreme, and eternal, in bliss. 
Where the church of the first born in union reside, 
	And they see as they’re seen, and they know 
		as they’re known;
Being equals in power, dominion and might,
	With a fulness of glory and grace, round his 
		throne.
The glory celestial is one like the sun;
	The glory terrestrial is one like the moon;
The glory telestial is one like the stars,
	And all harmonize like the parts of a tune. 
As the stars are all different in lustre and size, 
	So the telestial region is mingled in bliss;
From least unto greatest, and greatest to least,
	The reward is exactly as promised in this. 
These are those that come out for Apollos and 
		Paul;
	For Cephas and Jesus, in all kinds of hope;
Enoch and Moses, and Peter and John;
	For Luther and Calvin, and even the Pope. 
For they never received the gospel of Christ. 
	Nor the prophetic spirit that came from the 
		Lord;
Nor the covenant either, which Jacob once had;
	They went their own way, and they have their
		reward.
By the order of God, last of all, these are they, 
	That will not be gathered with saints here
		below,
To be caught up to Jesus, and meet in the
		cloud:—
	In darkness they worshipped; to darkness they
		go.
These are they that are sinful, the wicked at large,
	That glutted their passion by meanness or 
		worth;
All liars, adulterers, sorcerers, and proud;
And suffer, as promised, God’s wrath on the
		earth.
These are they that must suffer the vengeance of
		hell,
	’Til Christ shall have trodden all enemies
		down,
And perfected his work in the fulness of times:
	And is crowned on his throne with his glorious
		crown. 
The vast multitude of the telestial world—
	As the stars of the skies, or the sands of the
		sea;—
The voice of Jehovah echoed far and wide, 
	Every tongue shall confess, and they all bow 
		the knee. 
Every man shall be judged by the works of his
		life,
	And receive a reward in the mansions pre-
		pared;
For his judgments are just, and his works never
		end,
	As his prophets and servants have always de-
		clared.


But the great things of God, which he showed
		unto me,
	Unlawful to utter, I dare not declare;
They surpass all the wisdom and greatness of 
		men,
	And only are seen, as has Paul, where they 
		are,
I will go, I will go, while the secret of life,
	Is blooming in heaven, and blasting in hell;
Is leaving on earth, and a budding in space;—
	I will go, I will go, with you, brother, fare-
		well!
					JOSEPH SMITH.
Nauvoo Feb. 1843


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
SLAVERY AS A NATIONAL QUES-
TION.

(Concluded.)
	The opposition to Texas coming into
the Union was mainly from the northeast,
the west, free states as well as slave states,
favored the movement. The Democrats
favored, the Whigs opposed.
	In 1844 the abolitionists had formed into
the Liberty party and ran Birney for presi-
dent, they polled about 60,000 votes
and so defeated Henry Clay, they simply
played into the hands of Calhoun and became
his willing accomplices, says Rosevaelt
“The Liberty party that ran Birney com-
mitted a political crime, they in no way
paved the way for the Republican party or
helped the anti-slavery cause.” The
Republican party would never have med-
dled with slavery, say’s the same writer,
but a war measure made it necessary.
	The men who made the effective fight
were men who stayed in their party lines,
Democrats like Benton and Wilmot, or
Whigs like Seward and Stevens. Like all
other men who really had a great influence
for good or bad on American politics, they
did not fight independently of parties, but
stayed strictly in party lines. From 1844
the slavery question became the “para-
mount issue,” dwarfing all others.
	The cause of Benton’s downfall was his
courage in defending the Missouri compro-
mise bill from the attacks of Southern slave
holders. The type of Southerners that
prevailed before the Revolution and the
type just before the Rebellion were two
different things. The admission of Missouri
was not completed until 1821; then the
question of slavery sunk out of sight for
fifteen years, but when it reappeared it
came to stay, until Lincoln’s emancipation
proclamation blotted it off the face of civili-
zation..
	Jackson’s struggle with the nullification
movement in South Carolina had nothing
to do with the slave question, it was the
tariff, and the tariff lines were not the slav-
ery lines. Dallas points out in the Senate
“that the South falling back with the
North was not due to slavery, but rather to
tariff.”
	Polk succeeded Tyler in 1845, Congress
had a strong Democratic majority. Texas
came into the Union, Polk thought that by
payment of money Mexico might let us
have land beyond the boundary of the Rio
Grande, then came the question “What
would be the Social and Labor System of
this new territory?” Louisiana—in so doing
Missouri had come to us slave holding from
France, Florida the same from Spain, Ala-
bama and Mississippi in like manner under
the laws from North Carolina and Georgia
from which states they were cut off.

[Column 2]
Texas had been colonized by Southerners
but Mexico twenty years before had
abolished slavery, and every acre that she
ceded to us beyond the Rio Grande would
come in as free soil. The burning question
was “should she remain free, or come in as
a slave state?” If a protest was not enter-
ed it was feared Polk would take Calhoun’s
views “that slavery went into every rod
of Federal territory when not excluded by
positive laws”
	David Wilmot M. C. from Penn., intro-
duced the following bill, it carried in this
House but failed in the Senate.
WILMOT PROVISO.
	Provided, That as an express or funda-
mental condition to the acquisition of any
territory from the Republic of Mexico by the
United States, by virtue of any treaty that
may be negotiated between them, and to
the use by the executive of the moneys
herein appropriated, neither slavery nor in-
voluntary servitude shall ever exist in any
part of said territory except for crime
whereof the party shall first be duly con-
victed.
	Although the Wilmot Proviso failed, it
marked a new policy soon to be victorious.
	Gov. Seward declared In 1850 that slav-
ery was the great living issue between the
national parties.
	Texas was the last slave state that ever
came into the Union. Then came in 1850
a group of compromises. The Missouri
compromise had fixed the lines in 1820 and
took the parallel of 36° 30’ as the dividing
line, prohibiting slavery north of it, it
settled the slave question for thirty years.
The credit of this belongs to Henry Clay.
	When California asked for admittance
into the Union, a large part of her land lay
south of this line, the South demanded
some equivalent for her coming in as a free
state. So Utah (including Nevada) and
New Mexico (including Arizona) were
organized without the Wilmot Proviso, and
the slave trade was abolished in the Dis-
trict of Columbia in return; stringent laws
were passed for the arrest of fugitive slaves
in the Northern States..
	In place of settling, the compromises
of 1850 only stirred up the slavery question.
Clay and Webster were dead, Seward,
Chase and Sumner took their places.
Calhoun was dead and Jefferson Davis
came to the front.
	The Kansas-Nebraska Bill gave occa-
sion for the South to try and repeal the
Missouri Compromise. Stephen Doug-
las to quiet the agitation advocated
that the New Territories themselves settle
the slavery question as to their own terri-
tories. Through his efforts the Missouri
Compromise was repealed in 1854, and
Squatter Sovereignty ruled in Kansas and
Nebraska, many voting for the bill upon
the grounds that this would forever end the
slavery question, but in fact it solidified the
North and South against each other and
led to the civil war. The Northerners who
opposed slavery extension, organized under
the name of the anti-Nebraska and later
of Republican party. This party was made
up of anti-slavery Democrats, Whigs,
and of Free Soilers, and their principles
based upon the Wilmot Proviso, the
absolute prohibition of slavery in the
territories. It did not propose to attack
slavery in the slave states, and for this
reason the abolitionists as a rule did not
join it.

[Column 3]
	The pro-slavery Whigs joined with the
Democrats. Through bitterness and blood-
shed Kansas and Nebraska were brought
into the Union as free states, the fight
lasted from 1855 to 1858.
	The election of 1856 showed that the
South was upheld by Northern Democrats,
but the large vote for Fremont by a party
not two years old alarmed the South, they
threatened secession in event of a Repub-
lican victory.
	The South aided by the “Dough Faces”
led by Buchanan and Pierce became so
aggressive by their extreme policy that
a great body of northern Democrats left
them and joined with the Rebublicans.
	The Dred Scott decision in 1857 would
make the whole area of United States soil
slave territory.
	In 1857 the slave trade was resumed
openly. Buchanan and a small party tried
to force from Kansas a slave Constitution
known as the “Lacompton Constitution,”
it failed and in so doing made the gaps be-
tween Buchanan and Douglas, this split the
Northern Democrats.
	In the famous debates between Lincoln
and Douglas in 1858 the opinions expressed
by Douglas against the Dred Scott decision
made him unacceptable to the South and
resulted in the election of Lincoln in 1860.
	The John Brown raid was in Oct. 1859
with twenty men he attacked the arsenal at
Harper’s Ferry to get arms to set up an
asylum in the hills beyond, where fugitive
slaves might find a retreat; the attack found
little sympathy in the North, but it influ-
enced the South with horrors of negro
insurrection. The Republican party of
1860 put “prohibition of slavery in the
territories,” in their platform.
	When the South seceded all the slave
states did not join them. The Vice-Presi-
dent Alexander Stephens declared that
slavery was its corner stone.
	England did not recognize the South,
not that she loved the North but she had
been fighting slavery for years wherever
her fleets sailed.
	The Northern Democrats loyally support-
ed Lincoln	Lincoln Sep. 22, 1862 issued
the famous Emancipation proclamation to
take effect Jan. 1863. This proclamation
was issued solely as a war measure, to
weaken the enemy and to prevent England
interfering in giving aid to the South.
		(MRS.) I. CAMERON BROWN.


SILVER WEDDING.

	Elder John C. Sharp, Bishop of Vernon,
Tooele Co., and his wife celebrated their
silver wedding by entertaining about fifty
relatives and friends at the Templeton
Hotel in this city, on Friday evening
March 12th. Among the guests were
Apostle H. J. Grant and wife, Mrs.
Catharine K. Palmer, who is almost eighty
years old and mother of Mrs. Sharp, Pres’t.
H. Gowans and wife of Tooele Stake,
Brother Samuel Woolley and wife of Grants-
ville, Brother Wright and wife of Nephi,
Brother Louis Stransbury and wife of
Vernon, Brother Thackerary and wife of
Croydon, and many relatives of this city.
	The evening was pleasantly spent with
music, feasting and conversation. The
Bishop and wife were the recipients of
many handsome presents and wishes for
a continued li e of prosperity and happiness.
							E. P. F.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time. $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
ccond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1897.


[Column 1]
THE CHILDRENS’ JUBILEE.

PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S BIRTHDAY.
	No more beautiful sight could be seen
than the Sunday School Jubilee reception
on President Woodruffs ninetieth birthday.
it is understood generally that it was the
largest assembly ever gathered in the
Tabernacle. Not only were the seats all
taken but the aisles were packed in the
entire building. The electric current
turned into the globes forming the beauti-
ful double star and the word Utah in front
of the organ. The large star was of clear
light and the small star was composed of red
lights. The decorations were tasteful and
imposing. On the stand were the First
Presidency, Presidents Wilford Woodruff,
Geo. Q. Cannon and Jos. F. Smith,
Apostles L. Snow, F. D. Richards, B.
Young, F. M. Lyman, Geo. Teasdale, H.
J Grant, M. W. Merrill, A. H. Lund and
other authorities of the Church and of the
Stake. The General Superintendency of
Sunday Schools and Superintendency of
Stake Sunday Schools. President Geo. Q.
Cannon, General Superintendent presided,
Prof. Evan Stephens and Prof. E. K.
Bassett had charge of the music.
	In the rendition of the exercises, Elder
George Goddard sang “In our lovely
Deseret,” the children joining in the
Chorus. Elder Geo. Teasdale directed the
children in reciting the Articles of Faith,
Prof. Joseph J. Daynes rendered an organ
solo entitled “My Father’s Growing Old,”
Elder Geo. A. Smith gave a brief sketch of
the life and labors of President Wilford
Woodruff, related many striking instances
in his life, miraculous interpositions of
Providence in preserving him, spoke of
his acquaintance with Robert Mason famili-
arly known as the Prophet Mason, mentioned
that he once interpreted a dream of Brother
Woodruffs in which he said that in a few
years to come he would ally himself with a
new Church organization, which would
spring up in due time, which afterwards
came to pass. Brother Woodruff was then
quite a young man he also referred to his
being one of Zion’s Camp and one of the
Pioneers of 1847, and to other remarkable
occurrences, such as his having traveled
110,000 miles to preach the Gospel, had
baptized 2,000 souls, and had written a
journal of 7000 pages covering his work for
sixty-two years.
	After the congregation singing ‘‘Is

[Column 2]
There Anything That We Can Do.”
“Miss Rose Wallace in a happy speech
presented President Woodruff in behalf of
the Deseret Sunday School Union, with a
beautiful basket of ninety roses. Sister
Wallace used these words:
	“President Wilford Woodruff, our beloved
Prophet and leader: In behalf of the
Deseret Sunday School Union, I greet you
on this the ninetieth anniversary of your
natal day, and congratulate you that you
have reached this advanced age, and rejoice
that you are preserved unto us in all the
power of your glorious manhood and of
your high and holy calling.
	We hope and pray that your life will still
be precious in the eyes of our Father for
years to come; that you may be a blessing
and comfort unto His Saints; and that
they shall fill your soul with unspeakable
joy by their faithful, earnest efforts to do
God’s will, and that you shall live until
every holy desire in your heart is satisfied.
	We love you, we bless you Brother
Woodruff, with all our soul, and we thank
you for your gentle guidance; for you
have been to us “as a gentle shepherd
leading us through the gloom into the
bright and glorious day.”
	And since our feeble words cannot ex-
press the love we bear you nor the joy we
feel in your presence, we have brought
these beauteous messengers of love, ninety
roses, whose hearts are laden with the
exquisite fragrance from our heavenly
home where all is love.

	They are the roses Reverence and Regard
		That know no change.
	But bloom forever, though the storms be hard
		And ways grow strange.

	They are the roses that I bring to you,
		Your gaze to greet;
	To scent the way you take with fragrance true,
		And make life sweet.

	Roses to greet you with a wish from me,
		Though skies are drear,
	Still may the path you take all fragrant be
		Through all the year.

	Though roses born of sunlight and June showers
		fade fast away
	There are sweet roses grown in winterer hours
		That n’er decay!

	President Woodruff then addressed the
congregation. He said:
	“I want to say to my young brethren and
sisters and friends in the Sabbath schools
established here in the Rocky mountains,
God bless you and I feel to bless you, as
far as I have the power, I want to say that
this is a scene before me today that has
overpowered me—it has overpowered my
speech. I would rather not say anything,
still I feel I want to make a few remarks to
my friends.
	I never in my life have been in a similiar
position to that of today. The scene before
me has been a fulfillment to all my prayers
from my boyhood up to early manhood.
Eighty years ago I was a little boy ten
years of age attending school the same as
you are here in the mountains of Israel, I
read the New Testament. I read of Jacob,
read of the Apostles and the Prophets. I
could not find a man on the face of the
earth who taught the principles or believed
in them. I prayed to the God of heaven
that I might live to see an Apostle who
would say something that would satisfy me
like unto the principles I read of in the
New Testament.

[Column 3]
	Today I stand in the midst of ten thou-
sand young men and women of Israel—
sons and daughters of prophets, patriarchs
and men of Israel. Men who hold the
Holy Priesthood appointed by the God of
Israel; appointed in the last days to set up
and carry these laws and principles of God
into effect. It is these principles that we
were to look at in the last days. Now I
want to say to you as the rising generation,
I never expected to see a day of this kind
in my life, in my early days. I did expect
as it was promised to me to see a prophet.
I have lived to see him, I have traveled
with prophets and patriarchs and sons of
God, I have lived to see this body of intel-
ligence of the sons of the living God who
come here to the meetings of Israel.
	I rejoice in this for I see before me the
nature of the Latter-day Saints. We can-
not say the Bible is a novel—the Bible that
contains revelation. I have passed through
the periods of boyhood, early manhood and
old age. I cannot expect to tarry a great
while longer with you but I want to give
you a few words of counsel. You occupy
a position in the Church and Kingdom of
God and have received the power of the Holy
Priesthood. The God of Heaven has
appointed you and called you forth in this
day and generation. I want you to look at
this. Young men listen to the counsel of
your elder brethren. Live near to God;
pray while young; learn to pray; learn to
cultivate the Holy Spirit of God; link it
to you and it will become a spirit of reve-
lation unto you, inasmuch as you nourish
it. I feel thankful myself that I have lived
to see this day. I declare unto you that
there are many in the flesh that will re-
main so until the coming of the Son of
Man.
	This is about all I wish to say. I feel
thankful to my heavenly Father that I see
this scene before us this afternoon; that I
see the Gospel manifestations on the earth.
There has been, as it was stated by our
brother, two powers, one to destroy me and
the other to save me. And God in heaven
has willed to spare me to see this day. He
has given me power to reject every testi-
mony and reject every example that leads
to evil. I say to you children, do not use
tobacco, liquor or any of these things that
destroy the body and mind, but honor Him
and you will have a mission upon your
heads that the world know not of. May
God bless you. Amen.”
	Quartette, We Ever Pray for Thee,
especially written for the occasion by Prof.
Evan Stephens, was nicely rendered by the
little Misses Olga Peterson, Mamie Mills,
Annie Peterson and Gertrude Kelly, with a
refrain by Brother E. K. Bassett’s choir.
	President George Q. Cannon was the
next speaker. He said that this was a
most memorable occasion and one that
would live long in the hearts of those
assembled. Ninety years, said the speaker,
was a long space of time for mankind to
live upon the earth. It was gratifying to
know that President Woodruff had held the
Apostleship in this Church longer than any
man that lived in this dispensation. The
Lord had blessed President Woodruff and
spared him to do a mighty work in helping
to roll forth the Church and Kingdom of
God.
	President Cannon called the attention of
the children to the good work which had
been done by President Woodruff. He
had lived a righteous life upon the earth


[Column 1]
and had been miraculously spared to see
the desires of his heart made manifest.
The speaker exhorted the young to emulate
the example set them by President Wood-
ruff, as in their declining years they
would rejoice in keeping themselves
pure and unspotted from the sins of the
world. They should keep the Word of
Wisdom and God would add His blessings.
	The hymn, Song of Praise, was rendered
by the Sunday schools.
	The Lord’s prayer was recited in concert
under the leadership of Elder Richard S.
Horne of the Sunday School Union board.
	Madame von Finklestein was the next
speaker. She said:
	“We are gathered together here in the
name of Jesus Christ our Lord. This is
one of the greatest scenes I have ever wit-
nessed in my life. To see so many child-
ren is like coming into the kingdom of
heaven; and before the honorable President
here. He must feel today that he is in the
kingdom of heaven; for Christ said: ‘Suffer
the little children to come unto me for of
such is the kingdom of heaven.’ And as
these little ones are singing here, they
seem to have come from the heavenly hosts
above singing ‘Glory to God and peace on
earth.’ Long life and good wishes to our
noble President. I want to call him my
own President. I am one of the children
of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is one of
the memorable days of my life. I am the
daughter of that Zion—the ancient city
Zion—and have the privilege and honor to
be in this Zion of the Western hemisphere.
All that I can compare this gathering to is
the one that was held by those who were
led by Moses through the desert—the Child-
ren of Israel. While crying for bread
Moses said to them, I shall pray to God to
send you bread. The next morning when
the children of Israel rose up they expected
to see great loaves of bread lying ready to
eat. They cried, Where, oh where is the
bread? Moses said, There is the bread.
That was it, around like little seeds. They
said ‘Manora’, the meaning of which is
‘Do you want to starve us with this
bread?’ Moses said, Go, gather the bread
and eat. And they went and gathered and
ate, and they were filled. That bread from
heaven was called in the world, manna.
There is where the word originated—a
symbol of praise to the Maker. What is
this that God has sent us into the wilder-
ness? By His mighty power He has led
us forth by His servant, in the desert, in
the wilderness, and planted us to dwell in
this wilderness—brought the children of
srael like mighty Moses through the
wilderness. You have faith that with
many that came to this place and with
them this great man here, through great
persecution, yours are many to feed with
the breath of life the nations that are to
come to you in this Zion. In this we will
assemble together; and all that I can feel
to say is that I wish truly long peace to
this State, and give the glory to God of
srael. It is with you and the children
that are here to remember every one of
you that ye are the temples of the living
God. He is living in you every one.
May you live true to Him as our honorable
President. He is ninety years old, and it is
because he has kept himself pure and un-
spotted from the world, that he has lived in
the world and yet not of the world, in him-
self and with God, as His Prophet, that he is
honored now. May God preserve his life
to these children here, and may they from

[Column 2]
generation to generation observe his coun-
sel. May every blessing be with the
honorable President of this great movement;
and I hope that our President will live
long and that God’s love will rest upon
him.”
	The closing hymn, What Prize Shall Be
Your Reward, was sung by the Sunday
schools and benediction was pronounced by
Elder George Reynolds.
	At the close of the exercises many avail-
ed themselves of the opportunity to shake
hands with President Woodruff and there-
fore it was some time before the entire
audience was out of the building.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A TRIBUTE OF HONOR.

TO PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	PRESIDENT WOODRUFF is one of the
most unassuming men the world has ever
seen, nothing would be further from his
thoughts than to make a display of, or for
himself in any way or on any occasion.
But the Latter-day Saints delight in doing
him honor and are never weary of sounding
his praises. On the recent celebration of
his birthday in the large Tabernacle,
March 1st, in this City he was ninety years
of age. Before the hour set for the opening
10 a. m., the house was filled and nearly
every seat in the gallery taken. The
Tabernacle choir were in their usual places,
and Held’s band was stationed at the East
end of the gallery and played at intervals
very sweetly.
	When President Woodruff appeared on
the stand he received a magnificent ovation,
the entire congregation rose and waved
their handkerchiefs and joined the choir in
singing the hymn “Our God we raise to
Thee.” The proceedings opened by the
choir singing “Noble Chief,” prayer was
offered by President Joseph F. Smith.
Choir then sang “Hail Prophet, Brother,
Friend,” after which President Woodruff
made an,
ADDRESS OF WELCOME.
	I feel highly honored this morning in
meeting with so many of my friends upon
this important occasion. Yesterday those
who were present might have observed my
condition. I was perfectly overwhelmed in
consequence of the scene before me. It
was not what was said particularly, but it
brought to my mind with overwhelming
power my boyhood and early manhood and
my desire that I might live upon the earth
to find a people who would receive the
Gospel of Jesus Christ as taught by Christ
and the Apostles. In meeting with thou-
sands of the children of the Latter-day
Saints, it brought to my mind those scenes
and the fulfillment of my prayers and
desires before the Lord.
	I hope this morning I may be able to
make a few remarks. I will say this, it
has been a desire of my life, from my boy-
hood up, never to address any assembly of
people whom I could not make hear what I
had to say. I feel the same this morning;
I do not know whether I can make this
assembly hear me or not; but I will do the
best I can.
	As I can hardly expect to ever have the
opportunity of addressing the people of this
State and my friends in days to come, I
have a few reflections upon my mind that
I wish to lay before you. And I will say
that they are different from any of my pub-

[Column 2]
lic speeches that I have been in the habit of
presenting to the people. I have consulted
no man in regard to the course I should
pursue in my remarks here this morning,
and I do not know that I shall satisfy my
friends in the remarks that I may make.
	First I want to say a few words upon
politics. I hope that I will not astonish
you. I have not been in the habit of this
heretofore. But I feel desirous to say a few
things that are upon my mind. In the first
place there is not one item, not one sentence
in the Constitution of the United States,
nor in the laws of the United States, or of
the State of Utah, that deprives any citizen
of any name, nature, religion or politics in
the land, from joining any political party
he wishes or voting for whomsoever he
wishes. This is the right of every man
without hindrance. We have been accused
at times of using Church influence to guide
and direct the State. This is occasionally
presented to the public as our action. I
feel it my right and duty to say here today
that I was acquainted with Joseph Smith
and was acquainted with him from 1833
until his martyrdom. I have been
acquainted with Brigham Young and asso-
ciated with him for forty years of my life,
at home and abroad, under many circum-
stances. I have also been acquainted with
John Taylor and labored with him in every
capacity in which he was called to act. I
have also been a member of the quorum of
the Twelve Apostles for upwards of fifty-
srx years of my life. And I have presided
over the Church itself for a few years. I
have been associated with my counselors
and with the present Twelve Apostles.
And I want to say upon this occasion be-
fore God, angels and all men that are before
me, that I never in one instance have ever
known one leader in this Church ever
attempt to dictate and direct the affairs of
the State as members of the Church. At
the same time, when any man, no matter
who he is—Mormon, Jew or Gentile—goes
forth and uses money or any means to hire
men to vote for him, I think he steps out-
side his right, and stands in a measure
responsible.
	I want to say so much to my friends this
morning. I have officiated for twenty ses-
sions in the Legislative Council in the
Territory of Utah, and one session as a
member of the House, and it never cost me
one farthing for any office I ever held in
the Church or in the State or Territory.
And I never asked any mortal man on the
face of the earth to cast a vote for me that I
have any recollection of. As an example,
perhaps I may be permitted to say I am the
father of fourteen sons and have a number
of sons-in-law, and I believe they are pretty
nearly evenly divided on political party
lines—Democrats and Republicans. I will
give any man five dollars if in conversing
with them he can get any one of them to
say that his father ever told him who to vote
for. Some of you may try to make a little
money perhaps at that. (Laughter.) I
consider everybody is responsible for him-
self, and he has a right to vote for whom
he pleases.
	President Woodruff then spoke of his
early experiences in Sunday schools and in
reading the New Testament, his feelings
when he first saw some of the Elders of the
Church, his reading and testimony of the
truth of the book of Mormon, his baptism
into the Church, and continued as follows:
	At this point I will say upon the subject
of religion, what are the rights of men up-


[Column 1]
on religious subjects? I do not know that
I can do better than to quote Brother
Joseph Smith’s remarks before thousands
of people at a conference in Nauvoo, when
there were many non-Mormons present.
He said, “If I were the emperor of the
world and I had power to control the whole
human family, I would sustain every man,
woman and child in the enjoyment of their
religion.” Those are my sentiments today.
I believe every man—Jew, Catholic, Pro-
testant or anything—has a right to enjoy
his religion unmolested. I believe the
Constitution of the United States guarantees
this blessing and privilege to everybody.
	Now before I close I will again bear my
testimony that this work is of God. This
tabernacle that you are in today was seen
by the Prophet Isaiah and other prophets,
and they spoke of it, as well as the temples
that are built in the valleys of the
mountains. All have been pointed out by
the prophets of God and the Lord revealed
to Isaiah, Jeremiah and many other proph-
ets, our day, our history, our lives our
position in this immense barren desert
which has been occupied by the Latter-day
Saints, and is as we see it today through
the blessings of God. I will bear my testi-
mony to the world to my friends of the
Church and State, and to all men under
heaven that this is the truth of God. The
Lord Almighty has set His hand to accom-
plish this work. Joseph Smith was raised
up by the power of God and the revelation
of Jesus Christ to organize this Church
and kingdom in the dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. His life was short, as was
the Savior’s. But it was a great work that
he performed in the flesh. The Savior
lived about three and a half years after He
entered the ministry. Joseph Smith lived
some fourteen years from the time he re-
ceived the plates and translated them into
the English language. He laid down his
life, as did Christ and His Apostles,
for the word of God and testimony of Jesus
Christ. He will rise in his glorified celes-
tial body and meet again with his brethren
the Apostles and Elders of Israel and this
people, and will stand in days to come as
the leader among us in celestial glory. I
feel to bear my testimony to this. It mat-
ters not about the unbelief of men. They
cannot turn away the work of Almighty
God. The Lord has set His hand to carry
out these great principles which He has re-
vealed, the establishment of the Zion of
God and the preparation for the coming of
the Son of Man. What has been said
about the mountains of Israel will have its
fulfillment. The judgments of God will
follow in the earth in fulfillment of what
has been said, and no power on earth can
stay them. I am anxious, although my
life has been preserved to this great age, I
still am anxious that we as a people may
do our duty, may live our religion, may
keep the faith, may so walk before the
Lord that the Holy Ghost may be our con-
stant companion to lead us in the days that
lie before us. This is my prayer and de-
sire in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	After singing by the choir and congrega-
tion President Lorenzo Snow bore testi-
mony to President Woodruffs remarks, and
stated he had been acquainted with him
sixty years, having known him in Kirtland,
and that he had always lived a life of
purity and holiness, spoke of the example
we could all take from President Woodruff.
	President George Q. Cannon addressed

[Column 2]
the audience, he stated that the vast assem-
blage reminded him of the year 1849, when
the people celebrated the advent of the
pioneers into the valley, there was feasting
and dancing etc. and thanksgiving to God
for the bounteous blessings bestowed upon
His people. Since then great changes had
been brought about in this intermountain
region. President Cannon alluded to Presi-
dent Woodruff as a husbandsman in his
day, and to him belonged the credit of
planting the first potato in the valley, said
this was a most momentous period in the
world’s history, spoke of the spread of the
Gospel in the land and how it would spread
and continue to grow and flourish in the
earth until God’s purpose had been accom-
plished. The entrance of the pioneers into
this valley would be dwelt upon more and
more a the years rolled on. The day
would come when it would make an epoch
in the world’s history and one of the central
figures thereof would be President Wood-
ruff, who was being honored today. The
speaker referred to the excellent qualities
and virtues of the man himself, and felt
that the sound of President Woodruff’s
voice should be engraved upon the cylin-
ders of a phonograph, that in after years
the young and rising generation might en-
joy the sweet and loving vibrations. He
was a man of the utmost integrity, and as
such would forever be held in loving re-
membrance. After the close of President
Cannon’s remarks the choir sang the
anthem "Let the mountains shout for joy,”
and the vast audience rose and sang the
Doxology, and Apostle Brigham Young
pronounced the benediction.
THE RECEPTION
	At the close of the exercises, there was a
reception held for President Woodruff and
Sister Emma Woodruff his wife, whose
birthday occurs on the same day as her
husband’s, though she is more than thirty
years younger. They were seated under a
canopy of bunting and beautiful flowers,
and shook hands with the multitude for one
whole hour. Many estimates have been
made of the number of people; but at all
events it was a constant stream of new
faces during the hour.
	Some very acceptable gifts were presented
to them, a silk quilt from the sisters of
Millville, Cache Co. which received the
first prize at the World’a Fair in Chicago,
it was accompanied by a letter that we
would very much like to use if we had
space. A beautiful bouquet from the
Latter-day Saints college was presented by
Miss Bertha Wilcken, with a very appropri-
ate, choicely worded letter signed by
“The Teachers and Students of the college."
Another suitable gift to President Wood-
ruff was a handsome silver-mounted cane
given by A. W. McCune Esq. of this City.
The Primary children also presented a bas-
ket of flowers little Veda Jones mak-
ing the presentation in a pretty childish
fashion. Several of the sisters presented
flowers and one handsome basket from a
number of sisters containing roses, lilies of
the valley and violets was presented to Sis-
ter Emma Woodruff by Sister Zina Y.
Card with a verse expressive of endearing
sentiments by Susa Y. Gates.
	The anniversary exercises were through-
out a tender and affectionate tribute to the
Prophet seer and revelator whom all Israel
delights to honor because of his intrinsic
worth, his life-long labors in the Church,

[Column 3]
his sterling integrity to the truth and his
many virtues as well as his crown of ninety
years in this probation, and many grand
characteristics too numerous to mention. A
poem by L. L. Greene Richards entitled
“Near The Gate” and dedicated to Presi-
dent Woodruff we shall publish in the near
future


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES:

	GOOD news comes from South Dakota
that the Equal Suffrage Amendment was
submitted by a good majority.
	IN the state of Washington the Woman
Suffrage bill passed the Senate by a vote of
23 to 11.
	THE bill making an appropriation to the
University for a Kindergarten training
school is a good measure, by all means
Utah should have her teachers trained in
her own state.
	ONE of our exchanges says, “If you
must economize, in the name of Christian
humanity do not withdraw your support
from the Kindergarten”—“so say we, all of
us” who are working in the interest of the
children.
	MADAME MOUNTFORD is still in this state
giving her world-famous lectures in the
larger towns outside Salt Lake City, and
we trust meeting with good success and be-
coming acquainted with our people and
conversant with our Church doctrines.
	AT some opportune time during the Con-
ference in April, there will be a business
meeting of the State Suffrage Association,
held at the EXPONENT office, to get an
opinion from the women of the state as to
what shall be done by the enfranchised
states to help other women to obtain suf-
frage, and particularly wbat the women of
Utah will do.
	MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER whose
death has been for some time expected
died at Stamford, Conn., March 8, at 10.32,
on the tenth anniversary of the demise of
her illustrious husband. But very few par-
ticulars are given in the dispatches. Mrs.
Beecher devoted all her time and energies,
during her husband’s life to him and to her
family. Since his departure to the “ other
shore” she has become pretty widely
known throug her writings of him, pub-
lished in the Ladies Home Journal.
	THE executive inauguration exercises
etc. of Hon. Wm. McKinley as President
of the United States were said to be more
imposing, and on a grander and more mag-
nificent scale of elegance than any since
George Washington. However, we at a
distance know very little about it, but if
the money was put in circulation among
workmen and tradesmen, men and women
of the people it might be more effective of
good than to set an example of
ostentatious extravagance. It is better to
give work than to give charity. Certainly
all who are interested in the welfare of the
country would wish for the display to be
somewhat moderate because of the hard
times. Great hopes are entertained by
those who worked for the election of Mc-
Kinley that a more prosperous era will soon
come with the change in the administration;
for which results all who are mindful of
the public weal will ardently hope, and we
trust hope not in vain,


THE Legislature in which women have
been members in both Houses, and the first
woman Senator in any state has made her
debut closed without any calamity befall-
ing because women were elected; in fact so
far as we are aware the women were quite
as energetic and as far-seeing in committees,
and also in other ways, as men and
without doubt their influence in reference
to actual work done, was no doubt in be-
half of the best measures proposed accord-
ing to their conscientious views. If it was
an experiment, which in a certain sense it
was, no one can say it was a failure. It
seems as if it would be wrong to criticise
the first efforts in this direction; undoubted-
ly the lady members have done what they
could, and would like to have accomplished
very much more. It seems rather favorable
to the woman question, that among the
eighteen senators who drew for the long
and short term of office, the one woman
should have been among the fortunate
ones of the long term. Of this session of
the Legislature, the writer would wish to
be excused from commenting, as she knows
only what the newspapers have said, except
in conflicting reports of those who con-
strued all Democratic measures, according
to their own ideas of Democracy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. M. C. WOODS SPEECH.

AT THE DES MOINES CONVENTION.

	MRS. E. B. WELLS spoke for Utah and
Mrs. Bradford for Colorado, after which 
Mrs. Woods of Wallace, Idaho, daughter of
Mrs. Wells, voiced the following eloquent 
greeting of Idaho to the Convention. As a
pen picture of that interesting country it is
incomparable: —Ed. Woman's Tribune.
IDAHO’S GREETING.
	As representing Idaho, first I wish to ex-
press the heartfelt gratitude of every equal
suffragist in our proud and happy State
to the National American Woman Suffrage
Association for the most generous help
afforded us in our two years’ campaign.
Without the aid of the devoted women,
Mrs. DeVoe, Mrs. Catt, Mrs. Bradford and
Mrs. Johns, who made the arduous journey
across the continent to organize our clubs,
plead the cause and teach us how to work
and win, we would not be celebrating
Idaho’s victory tonight.
	Mrs DeVoe, whom the National selected
to blaze the trail, came to us in the North
in June, 1895, and traveling southward
through the State—often taking wearisome
stage rides over dangerous mountain roads
to reach towns isolated from the railroad
line—to organize clubs in almost every
town of importance in Idaho, a State whose
area is 84,800 square miles, almost double 
that of New York and 28,775 square miles
greater than your beautiful State of Iowa,
(in which I claim a share, for my husband
was born a “Hawkeye” and served with
Iowa’s gallant troops the four years of the
civil war.)
	By the work of these clubs and others
organized later by Mrs. Bradford and Mrs.
Johns under the guidancs of the National
first, the State Assoc’n., next, with Mrs. 
Beattie and Mrs. Whitman at its head and our
devoted, untiring, self-sacrificing and most
efficient state secretary, Mrs. M. C. Athey, we
achieved the results we commemorate to-
night. Without being invidious, I wish to

[Column 2]
pay just tribute to Mrs. Helen L. Young,
Idaho’s only woman lawyer, for most
efficient work done in this cause.
	With her head pillowed on the lap of the
North, her feet resting on the orchards 
of the South, her snowy bosom rising to the
clouds, Idaho rests serene in her beauty of
glacier, lake and primeval forest, guarding
in her verdure clad mountains vast treasures
of precious minerals, the hem of her robe
embroidered in sapphires and opals.
	This is no overdrawn picture, friends;
on our northern line we touch elbows with
British Columbia; in the southern part
of the State are fine sapphire mines, while
one of our border counties (Latah) produces
the most beautiful opals on the continent,
and the output of silver and lead in Sho-
shone county, alone, for 1896 was $5,120,
000; this, too, in a country where for five
years past many of the large mines have
been closed down, awaiting the settlement
of the wage question. But if there are any
gold bugs present they need not worry
over our immense silver and lead produc-
tions, because Idaho is a large gold
producer and while no official record is yet
to be had it is estimated her production of
gold 1896 will be about 12,000,000, so you
see we are helping to keep up the gold
standard right royally although we are
called a silver State.
	But Idaho is not alone a mining State.
If we lack in comparison with the middle
States in area of cultivated soil, we have
our compensation in productiveness. The
great fields of the Palouse and Potlach
countries and other lands tributary to the
Clearwater and Snake rivers, yield annually
thirty-five bushels to the acre, this, too,
without rotation of crops, and the apples, pears
and prunes of Idaho are considered the 
finest in the United States.
	“A trail cut through the banks of snow
		Winds up and o’er the mountain chain
	To where the pines of Idaho
		Stand guard upon the Coeur d’Alene.”
	That part of Idaho called Coeur d’Alene,
and in which is my home, comprises the
two northernmost counties, Shoshone and
Kootenai. It is a nest of mountains with
beautiful lakes nestling among them and
streams of water coursing through every
gulch, except where tower the snow clad
peaks above the timber line; the mountains
are covered with a dense growth of different
varieties of pine, larch, hemlock and cedar,
and the timber interest of Idaho is not one
of the least of her resources. One of the
Des Moines papers characterized the four
enfranchised States as the “wildest and wool-
iest of the west.” We are proud that our four
equal suffrage States are joined together
and united by the ties of the grand old 
Rockies, and we will stand as a great bul-
wark of strength to the States around us,
higher in altitude and higher in attitude.
	I fancy few of you know much of 
the conditions existing in the mining
country, dotted here and there with mining
camps in every gulch, or canyon as you
would say, the preponderance of the adult
male over the women of maturity; the
power of the saloon element, and the cos-
mopolitan character of the people—men
from all parts of the world, ignorant and
cultured, refined and depraved seeking fame
and fortune in the far West—no reading
rooms, no lectures, no lyceums, no spelling
bee or corn-husking, the relaxation of the
farm hand; single men away from home

[Column 3]
and its influences, even if temperate, are
forced from the draughty lobby of the hotel
or tavern to the warmth and comfort of
every well-appointed saloon.
	The missionary suffrage work in such
places was obliged to be quietly consum-
mated without any apparent advocacy on
the part of men who were in reality ardent
supporters of our cause, lest the saloon ele-
ment should organize and by concerted
action, crush the movement as they did in
the State of Washington in 1889. And 
California, too, owes her defeat of the
amendment, at least, partially to this cause.
Yet you may go far to find nobler men
than we have in Idaho, and our cause did
not lack able champions. Our amendment
carried by more than a two-thirds majority
of the votes cast for and against it, the
largest majority any State has ever given
an amendment. And it is an evidence of
the chivalry of men to women voters that
in our legislature, now in session, Mrs. 
Rebecca Mitchell was elected by acclama-
tion to the position of Chaplain of the
House of Representatives. We think this
is the first woman to hold such a position
in the United States.
	We women of Idaho know that eyes out-
side our own State watch with intense
interest the effect of this added suffrage on
the body politic, and that it will add to
or detract from the work elsewhere as we
perform our duties as citizens well or ill.
Naturally we shall make mistakes, but
fortunately God has endowed women with
quick perception and strong intuition and it
will not take us long, I’ll warrant, to profit
by the mistakes made. With good men as
teachers we hope for much, fear little, and
look forward with enthusiasm to the
millenium of honest politics.


IN MEMORIAM.

SISTER LUCY WEBB WAGSTAFF.
	ONCE more we are called upon to record the
death of one of our number, Sister Lucy Webb
Wagstaff who departed this life Feb. 9, 1897, after
a long and lingering illness.
	Sister Wagstaff was born Feb 4, 1820 at Teteth,
Cambridgeshire, England, was baptized 1849 and
emigrated to Utah in 1862, crossed the plains with
ox teams and suffered many hardships incident
to settling a new country. She was the mother
of nine children, six sons and three daughters all
living except the eldest son who died soon after
the family came to American Fork.
	She was a faithful teacher in the Relief Society
of American Fork always prompt in the per-
formance of her duties, going around her district
in all kinds of weather, gentle and kind, friend
and peacemaker, beloved of her friends and
neighbors and universally respected by all who
knew her; her hand was ever ready and her
heart willing to help those who were within her
reach.
	May the Lord comfort the bereaved husband
and the sorrowing children in their hour of
affliction, and give peace to their aching hearts
and give them to realize a hope of a reunion be-
yond the vail, where there will be no more part-
ing.
	Her work is done, she has gone to her rest
and may we who mourn her departure emulate
her good deeds and prepare ourselves for a joy-
ful reunion on the other shore.
		ELLEN D. CLARKE,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, }Committee.
		JANE C. HINDLEY,
				In behalf of the Relief Society.


R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held in
the Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall, March


[Column 1]
6th, 1897, President M. Isabella Horne
presiding. Present on the stand were
Elder O. B. Huntington, Elder Jacobs,
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith,
M. A. Hyde of the Sanpete Stake, and
Counselor C. C. Cannon.
	Opened by singing “For the strength of
the hills we bless Thee;” prayer by Elder
O. B. Huntington; singing “Come, O
Thou King of kings;” minutes of last
meeting read and accepted. The statistical
and financial report read and accepted.
	President Horne spoke to the sisters on
their duties, and urged them to greater
diligence. Spoke of the great reward that
would follow the performance of good
works; raised a warning voice against the
sins that were among us; gave many words
of wisdom and counsel to the sisters.
	Elder O. B. Huntington and Elder
Jacobs spoke on the good work the society
was doing, and urged the mothers to look after
the rising generation with greater vigilance.
	Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith
and M. A. Hyde each spoke and gave many
comforting words and valuable instructions
to the sisters.
	Closed by singing “We thank Thee O
God for a Prophet.” Benediction by Elder
Jacobs.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing
“Our God we raise to Thee;” prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon; singing “O ye
mountains high.” The Stake officers of
the Relief Society were presented and sus-
tained.
	There was a large attendance and the
meeting was addressed by President A. M.
Cannon M. I. Horne, Annie T. Hyde,
Julia C. Howe, B. W. Smith, C. C. Can-
non, M. Hyde and E. Stevenson. Many
important subjects were discussed and
strong testimonies borne to the latter-day
work, and a good feeling prevailed through-
out the assembly.
	Adjourned for three months by singing
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Pres’t. A. M. Cannon.
				M. Y. TAYLOR Sec’y.
DAVIS STAKE.
	THE Davis Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence was held at East Bountiful Jan. 28,
1897, President Susan Grant presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee;” prayer by Counselor
Joseph Clark; singing “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Present on the stand were
Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young, Pres’t. Hess
and Counselors, Pres’t Susan Grant and
Counselors, and others. Minutes of the
previous Conference read and approved.
	Pres’t. Susan Grant made opening re-
marks, said we did not come together to
advance new ideas but we have come with
a desire to be blest and thought we were
greatly blest in having Sister Zina with us.
“I have been connected with this Church 
for a long time and it is my testimony that
God hears and answers the prayers of the
faithful saints. When we are in deep
sorrow we can go to Him and He will hear
us. We have all enlisted in the service of
God. Our names are all enrolled in the
Relief Society, it is the duty of all the sis-
ters to attend their meetings.”
	Pres’t. Lucina Sessions reported East
Bountiful. Pres’t. Martha Fackeral, West
Bountiful, said they were getting along
very well in the Society.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said “It makes
my heart rejoice to meet with the Saints, I
feel there is a good spirit here. It is now 60

[Column 2]
years since Hyrum Smith baptized me into
the Church of God.” Spoke of apostacy;
said one of the first things that lead to it is
fault finding. Spoke of visiting with
Brother Stevenson before his death, he was
filled with the spirit of the Gospel. It is a
great blessing to have a body dedicated to
the Lord. Spoke of the Relief Society,
said she sincerely hoped more of the young
ladies would join. “I was present when
Brigham Young organized the Young
Ladies’ Association, when he got through
with the organization Geo. A. Smith said,
‘If Brigham Young ever spoke by the
Spirit of God he has today.’ I feel to urge
the sisters to attend the Relief Society
meetings, but do not neglect your children.
I am thankful to meet with you and may
God bless you all.” Sister Randall reported
Centerville Society as doing well and im-
proving.
	Meeting was adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing “Lord dismiss us.” Benediction
by Bishop Lewis Grant.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing;
prayer by Counselor Henry Rampton;
singing. Counselor Mary S. Clark made
some excellent remarks, said the Gospel is
what makes us happy. Spoke of Temple
work, we should attend to it and do all the
good we can for this life is short.
	South Bountiful, Farmington and West
Layton were well reported by their Presi-
dents as being in good condition.
	Sister Zina made some very interesting
remarks, said there are many here who can
testify to the gift of healing, the mothers can
intercede with our heavenly Father in be-
half of their children, they should teach
them the principles of the Gospel and
to be virtuous. “There is nothing gives
me more joy than to see children improving
and doing right.” Told several incidents
which occured in the days of Joseph that
were very interesting. Referred again to
apostacy, said no matter how many aposta-
tize this work will roll on for it is God’s
work. “May we ever be found faithful is
my prayer.”
	Counselor Jane Holt said she loved to
hear the sisters bear their testimony who
lived in the days of Joseph. “If we live
true, faithful and prayerful lives we will be
blessed. I feel to bear my testimony to
what has been said. May our heavenly
Father help us to be true and faithful.”
	Pres’t. Hess said, “I have experienced a
great many things in this Church and I
want to tell you the Latter-day Saints were
never on so dangerous ground as they are
today. The evil one is trying to have the
people give way and not trust the Priest-
hood, those who feel that way should re-
pent. Some told Joseph Smith they were
willing for him to advise in spiritual things
but thought they knew as much in tempor-
al things. This influence is now here and
a great many are influenced by it. I feel
my brethren and sisters we have been
silent long enough and it is time we should
rise up and warn the people. I have the
right as a citizen to speak my mind, let us
sustain ourselves and the Priesthood.”
	Referred to the remarks of the sisters,
said they were good. “Now sisters you
have just as much influence as the men and
use your influence for good. I ask the
Lord to bless you all.”
	Meeting adjourned for three months to
be held at Centerville. Singing Doxology.
Prayer by D. O. Willey.
			SUSAN GRANT, President,
			PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	FEB. 27, ’97. The U W. P. C. held its
regular monthly meeting at the home of
Mrs. Ruth Fox, 261 W. 2nd South St.
	Meeting was called to order by the Pres’t.
and prayer was offered by Mrs. E. B.
Wells. Roll call, members responding
with quotations from Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells. Report of Federation committee on
revision of Constitution read by Sec’y
Motion by Mrs. Wells that Federation be
held as formerly, in May.—Carried.
	Motion by Mrs. Dickinson that report of
Committee on Constitution be accepted as
read.—Carried.
	Program for the evening: Talk by
Mrs. Wells on her Eastern trip.
	Paper, “Three Lakes,” Mrs. Kimball.
	Poem, “A Woman’s Heart,” Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp in behalf of the Press
Club presented Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
with a birthday gift as a token of the esteem
and love felt for her by the club.
	Mrs. Wells made a fitting response.
Minutes read and approved, benediction by
Mrs Clark. Adjourned.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec.


DEGREES FOR WOMEN.

	CAMBRIDGE, Eng., March 2.—The syn-
dics appointed by Cambridge university to
consider the question of granting degrees to
women has presented its report. While it is
not prepared to recommend that women be
admitted to membership, the syndics recom-
mend that the title of B. A. be conferred by
diploma upon women who have already
passed or hereafter pass the final tripos.
The Syndics further recommend that the
women may proceed in one course to the
M. A. degree and that the university be
empowered to grant degrees in arts, law,
letters, sciences and music to women who
have not fulfilled the usual conditions but
who have been recommended for such titles
honorias causa, by the council of the senate.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL BEGIN HER
Class : in : Obstetrics
	On Monday April 12th 1897 with improved
facilities for instruction in this important study.
Special terms are given to societies sending
students. For further particulars communicate
with
		ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D.
		75 Center St, Salt Lake City Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St,.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.


VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1897.		<HO> No. 19


CONTENTS:
	An Antedeluvian Di[-]ry—L  M. H. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly Meet[-]ng—Zn[-] Y B[-]ll, Sec.
Relief Society Anniversary—E. Crane Wat[-]on.
Her Eightieth Birt[-]day—Ca[-]oline Smith. The
Three Lakes—Kim. Re[-]rganizatio[-] At D ap[-]r
—Sarah Burnham. Le[-]ter From Lula—L. L.
Greene Richa[-]ds. R S. Reports. In Memo[-]iam.
To The Memo[-]y Of Grandma Free—S. E. D.
Birthday Cele ration. No es And News.
	EDITORIAL:—The Pioneer Kinder arten.
E[-]izabeth Dette Laker Noa 1. Editoria Notes.
	POETRY:—The Passing Day—H W. N. Near
The Gate—L. L. Greene Richards. Farewell—
L. D. A der.


For the Exponent.
THE PASSING DAY.

EVENING shadows tell the story,
	One more day hath joined the past,
Mingled with the ages hoary,
	All had first-day, will have last!

What the record made or written,
	Human wisdom can’t decide,
Many a soul deemed Heaven smitten,
	Finds its crown “the other side!”

Men in judgment mark each weakness,
	Oft condemn through feeble sight,
God knows all the heart, its weakness,
	And His wisdom finds the right!

From the verdict earth doth render,
	Many a broken heart will turn; 
Faith, trusts Father’s love more tender,
	Patient waits the truth to learn.

This the secret ’mid life’s sorrows,
	When a dark cloud veils the sun,
Past probation, there’s a morrow,
	God and Angels say, “Well Done.”
							H. W. N.


NEAR THE GATE.

TO PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF ON HIS NINE- 
TIETH BIRTHDAY, MARCH 1ST 1897.

THOU favored Prophet of the Lord most high,
So near thou standest to the Holy Gate,
Which entrance to the Great Tribunal leads,
Where sit in council o’er the world’s affairs—
And things respecting worlds innumerable—
The Eloheim, Jehovah, God and Christ,
That as we look on thee, our thoughts revert
To Moses, when, upon Mount Sinai,
He talked with God, and then to Israel,
We listen for thy voice to speak God’s word
Unto His chosen sons and daughters now,
As Moses spake to Jacob’s children then.

Not out of Egypt, but from every land
Is Israel gathered in this latter time;
Not unto Canaan, but to Deseret,
A land of promise and a home of peace
To all who love and serve the one true God;
And thousands still are gathering year by year,
But ah! too much like ancient Israel.
Hard-heartedness and stubborness of will
Oft hold us from receiving precious gifts
And blessings which the Lord would fain bestow.
Teach us, thou friend of God to better know
And understand and serve and worship Him.
Teach us humility; and plead for us,
That all our hearts may softened be, and pure;
That we may follow closely after thee,
And with thee stand, at last, inside the gate.


As Moses’ hands were steadied and upheld
By Aaron and by Hur upon the mount,
While Israel prevailed against her foes,
So may thy counselors George and Joseph, stand
Forever firm, as they have ever been,
Sustaining thee, while Israel of today
Shall triumph over all opposing powers.
And may thy days and years be lengthened out
To lead the Saints from underneath each ban,
Which now curtails their efforts and their aims,
To victory and honor, full and free,
When they are humbled, purified and cleansed
From all their pride, self-will and covetousness.
And may they better learn to prize thy worth,
To emulate thy meekness and thy faith,
To fully trust and truly venerate
The man, who stands so near the Heavenly Gate.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
AN ANTEDELUVIAN DIARY.

	THE following “fragments of an antede-
luvian diary,” from an old number of an
English work entitled the “Spirit and Man-
ners of the Age,” may be interesting to
the numerous readers of your valuable
publication.
				Yours, L. M. H.

	Today I am a hundred years old. Ah
me! How blissful are the feelings of boy-
hood! My senses are as acute as the tree
with the shrinking leaf. My blood bounds
through my veins as the river pours
through the valley, rejoicing in its strength
Life lies before me like another plain of
Shinar—vast, unoccupied, inviting,—I will
fill it with achievements and pleasures!
In about sixty years it will be time to think
of marrying; my kinswomen Zillah, will
by that time have emerged from girlhood;
she already gives promise of comeliness and
discretion. Twenty years hence I will pay
a visit to her parents, that I may see how
she has grown. Meanwhile I will build a
city to receive her. A city to do her honor
when she becomes my wife.

	Nearly three centuries have passed since
my marriage. Can it be true? It seems
but yesterday since I sported like a young
antelope around my father’s tent, or, climb-
ing the dark cedars, nestled like a bird
among the thick boughs beneath which my
mother laid me to sleep—and now I am a
man in authority as well as in the prime of
life. I lead out my trained servants, and
sit head of the council. Jazed, my young
est born, a lovely babe of thirty summers,
that gave promise of long life, is dead, but
I have six goodly sons remaining, and my
five daughters are fair and beautiful as their
mother when I first met her in the Acacia
grove, where now stands one of my watch-
towers. They are the pride of the plain no
less from their requirements than their
beauty. No damsel carries the picture
from the fountain with the grace of Adah;
none can dry the summer fruits like Azu-
bah; none can fashion a robe like Mileah;
none sing and play the harp like Hajar,
nor spin and weave like our light-winged

[Column 2]
Zenia. Mahaleel admires them. He is
rich and powerful—he shall take his choice
of all for his wife. 

	My eight hundredth birthday! And
now I feel the approach of age and infirm-
ity. My head has become white as the
blossoms of the almond tree. I am con-
strained to use a staff when I journey; the
stars look less bright than formerly; the
flowers smell less odorous. I have laid
Zillah my beloved in the tomb of the rock.
Mileah is the wife of Mahaleel and all are
gone to their own dwellings. My sons
take my place in the council and in the
field,—all is changed. The long future has
become the short past. The earth is full
of violence; the ancient and the honorable
are sinking beneath the young and the
vicious. The giants stalk through the
length and breadth of the land, where once
dwelt a quiet people; all now is changed.
The beasts of the field and the monsters of
the deep growl with unwonted fury; tradi-
tions, visions and threatenings are abroad.
What fearful doom hangs over this fair
world, I know not: it is enough that I am
leaving it; yet another five or eight score
years, and the tale will be told, completed.
But have I in very deed trod this earth
nearly a thousand years? It is false; I am
yet a boy. I have had dreams—aye long,
long, busy dreams, of buying and selling,
and of giving in marriage; of building and
planting; feasting and warring, sorrowing
and rejoicing; loving and hating; but it is
false to call it life. Go to—it has been a
vision of the night and now that I am
awake, I will forget it.
	“Lamech, my son, how long is it since
we planted the garden of oaks beside the
river? Was it yesterday?” “My father
dost thou sport? These oaks cast a broad
shadow when my sister Zenia carried me
beneath them in her arms and wove me
chaplets of their leaves.” Thou art right
my son; and I am growing old. Lead me
to my mother’s tomb and there leave me to
meditate. What am I the better for my
past length of being? Where will be its
records when I am gone? They are yonder
—on all sides; will those massive towers
fall? Will those golden plains become
desolate? Will the children that call me
father forget? The seers utter dark say-
ings upon their harps when they sing of
the future. They say our descendants shall
be of dwindled stature, that the years of
their lives shall be contracted to the span of
our childhood;—but what is that future to
me? I have listened to the tales of paradise
—nay, in the blue distance I have seen the
dark tops of the cedars. I have heard the
solemn melodies of Jubal when he sat on
the seashore, and the sound of the wave
mingled with his harping. I have seen
angels the visitants of mankind to earth.
Yea, I have seen an end of all perfection
here, what is the future to me?


MISS ADA WOODS, a well known young
London actress, has joined the Salvation
Army.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting Feb. 20, 1897. Called to order by
Sister E. Webb. Singing “We thank
Thee O God for a prophet;” prayer by
Sister Annie T. Hyde; singing “Now let
us rejoice.” Sister Webb gave the meeting
into the hands of the sisters and wanted a
blessing. Sister Forsythe and Mair and 
others testified to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Brown bore a strong testimony, made
some excellent remarks.
	The secretary coming in the minutes of
the previous meeting were read and
accepted.
	After which, a number of sisters spoke,
Sisters Jane James, Martha Barrow, Han-
nah Conklin, Christine Rockwell also Sis- 
ters Hunter and Nunn and others whose
names were not known; all bore testimony
to the truth of this work and many of them
referred to the need of safeguards being
thrown around our young people and the
children of Zion, the necessity of teaching
honesty, morality, truthfulness and the
strictest virtue and of setting a good exam-
ple in our own lives.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said she had been
born and raised in this Church and had been
taught nothing else by her parents. If she was
not a Latter-day Saint it was her own fault.
Spoke upon charity and love, and made
some very encouraging remarks to the sis-
ters. Testified that if we put our trust in
the Lord that He would comfort and bless
us, and give us that which we needed.
Sister Hyde gave notice of the coming Con-
ference.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb made some
closing remarks which were very comfort-
ing and asked the blessing of the Lord upon
us all. Singing “This God is the God we
adore.” Benediction by Sister Zina H.
Bull.

	Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting held in
the 14th Ward Hall, March 20, 1897,
Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “Now let us rejoice;” prayer
offered by one of the sisters; singing “How
firm a foundation;” minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted. Counselor
Stevenson made the announcement that
President Horne had gone to Provo, conse-
quently could not be with us today. Spoke
of the courage of those who ventured out to
meeting on such a stormy day, and felt
they would receive a blessing. Referred
to Heber C. Kimball’s words being fulfilled
that there was a test coming to the people,
we must not feel we were the only ones
who had trials for they were common to all.
Sister Stevenson then gave the meeting in-
to the hands of the sisters.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown expressed her-
self very fervently in reference to her testi-
mony and experience in this work, and ex-
horted to diligence, obedience and humility.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor felt we should
have confidence in one another; thought
it was good for us to have trials, they
would purify us and make us strong to
meet temptation; considered our Heavenly
Father knew what was best for us and
would not try us more than we were able
to bear; admonished the sisters to have
charity and love and help one another, not
to find fault with those who preside over
us in the Church, but look to ourselves
rather than others.
	Sister Margaret Young felt it was an

[Column 2]
advantage to each one who testified to
the goodness of God referred to the trials
of the Saints in the early history of the
Church.
	Sister Wright, Sister Frances Smith, Sis-
ter Jones, Sister Mary Morris, Sister Cham-
berlain, Sister Jane James, Sister Mary
Ann Hardy each made excellent remarks
and bore strong testimonies. Sister Lydia
D. Alder spoke of the coming Easter and
the feelings it always inspired within her;
spoke of the parable of the ten virgins and
made some excellent remarks. Sister Julia
C. Howe felt we had had a feast, felt
spiritually we were all hungering and had
been fed. Sister Howe also spoke earnestly
upon prayer.
	Sister Armeda S. Young said she wished
the support of the sisters in regard to the
work of Sister Sorenson, which consists of
hygiene, or the prevention of disease and
how to take care of our bodies. She then
proceeded to give an illustration of it.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson made a few
closing remarks and fully endorsed every-
thing Sister Young had said. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Singing Doxol-
ogy. Benediction by Sister Margaret F.
Steele.
		ZINA H. BULL, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY.

Editor Exponent:
	THE fifty-fifth anniversary of the organ-
ization of the Relief Society was royally
celebrated March 17th at Parowan.
	A most excellent program of addresses,
recitations, songs and music was well ren-
dered, the brethren feeling honored in
being invited to contribute to the day’s
enjoyment.
	Sister Lenora Orton gave the historical
address of the Relief Society which was
replete with information. Among the
aged sisters who spoke were Sister Nancy
Decker and Aunt Paulina Lyman, who
were at Nauvoo at the time the Prophet
Joseph established this Society. Aunt
Paulina chose for her subject “The situa-
tion and circumstances of the Saints at that
time,” which was decidedly intelligence to
her hearers. Prof. Durham’s orchestral
music and vocal melodies greatly enhanced
the entertaining part of the program.
	After the benediction a general hand-
shaking all around was indulged in, fol-
lowed by a “group picnic,” the Relief
Society supplying the entire company with
hot lemonade. The whole affair was
crowned with an old-fashioned dance, rest-
ing at intervals while listening to some
well chosen vocal selections or recitations.
Withal this thrice blessed day was made
more memorable than ever for the citizens
of Parowan.
	Our Relief Society is in a thoroughly
healthy condition, endeavoring to carry
out the complete design for which it has an
existence. With prayer and love for our
sister organizations, we take pleasure in
subscribing ourselves
	Your co-laborers in this great cause
		S. A. ADAMS, President,
		E. CRANE WATSON, Secretary.


THE French Minister of Education has
appointed Miss Ida Gibson of Chicago, to
prepare a report of early French explora-
tions in America for the Paris Exposition.


HER EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.

	ON Wednesday afternoon March 10,
1897, the eightieth anniversary of the birth
of Sister Rachel Whipple, President of the
Relief Society of the 22nd ward was cele-
brated in the New Society Building of that
ward. The hall was beautifully decorated
with mottoes and flowers suited to the occa-
sion. There were about sixty-five persons
present, among whom were Sisters Zina D.
H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isa-
bella Horne, Elizabeth J. Stevenson Sister
Rawlings and President and Counselors of
the Y. L. M. I. A., also Brother Arthur
Winter of the Bishopric and Brother Henry
Gardner who rendered some fine vocal
selections accompanied on the organ by
Sister Rose Flashman.
	“O My Father” and “Home Sweet
Home” were beautifully rendered by the
sweet singer Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley.
Speeches appropriate for the occasion were
listened to with pleasure, after which a
bounteous repast was partaken of by all
present.
	Upon inquiring it was learned that there
were five persons present who had been ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and eight persons who had come to Utah
during the years of 1847, ’48 and ’49.
	Sister Whipple has been an active work-
er in the Relief Society of the 22nd ward
ever since its organization in 1868, acting
as First Counselor and for the last eighteen
years as President.
	She has set a grand example
		For her sisters, one and all;
	Has pressed on with humble patience
		And been true to every call.
	May God’s choicest blessings ever
		Be strewn along her way,
	May her heart be filled with pleasure
		In her labors day by day.
	She will reap a bounteous harvest
		For her work so nobly done,
	And in God’s Celestial Kingdom
		Claim an everlasting home.
			CAROLINE SMITH, Secretary.


MRS. GENERAL GRANT made the first
move against intoxicating liquors at the
White House, and secured its banishment
from the President’s New Years reception.
Mrs. Grant was succeeded by Mrs. Hayes,
a lifelong teetotaler, who never offered
wine. Next came Mrs. Garfield, Mrs.
Harrison and Mrs. Cleveland, all total
abstainers, and none of them furnishing
wine to their own guests, though lacking
the co-operation of their husbands, they
could not prevent its use at State dinners,
as Mrs Hayes could because the President’s
views coincided with her own. Mrs. Mc-
Kinley is well known to be a total abstain-
er, so that, as Frances Willard points out,
the wives of six Presidents, (President
Arthur was a widower) since 1868, have
perhaps dealt more telling blows against
the drinking habit than any other women
who have lived. For “where McGregor
sits is the head of the table,’’ and what is
done at the White House is the keynote of
social observances for millions.
	CARMEN SYLVA has received the
decoration for Arts and Sciences from the
Emperor of Austria. She is the first wo-
man to win this distinction.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL,

TO SISTER MC CUNE ON HER DEPARTURE FOR
EUROPE.
OVER the sea, over the sea
	To a far-off distant shore;
Where the wide Atlantic kisses the sand,
	And the white waves dash and roar.
Blow ye winds from sunny climes, 
	And speed the ship along;
The prayers and praise waft upward,
	With many a happy song.

Hold the angry waves O, Father,
	In the hollow of Thy hand;
And “Peace be still,” to every tempest,
	As of old Thou did’st command.
This loved one goes across the Ocean,
	Divinley sent by Thee;
To carry words of love and gladness,—
	The Gospel bear across the sea.

The learned and noble wait the message,
	Sent from Zion’s holy hill;
Bear the tidings O, my sister,
	This thy glorious work fulfill.
The fires of faith burn brightly,
	Where Zion’s altars rise;
And loving thoughts are ever,
	Rising for thee to the skies.

Turn thy eyes toward the Temple,
	When thy heart is sad;
Bow thy head in deep devotion,—
	Then shall thy soul be glad.
Lo! the Book of life is open,
	See thy name is on the page;
Never to be blotted out,
	Through every coming age.

Think of those who love thee,
	And miss thee every day,
Let this sweet assurance,
	Bring peace and joy alway.
Fear not man for he is mortal,
	In thy holy cause be strong;
Trust in God in silent asking,—
	He will move the proud among.

Sow the seed! leave God the harvest,
	He will reap another day;
To thy kindred bear a witness,
	“This is truth I came to say.”
Then roll ye waves along,
	That bring thee home once more;
And thanks to God we’ll render,
	And praise Him evermore.

So may our lives flow onward,
	Till we reach the home above,
Where every roving wanderer.
	Will share a Father’s love.”
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
Feb. 22, 1897.


[Column 1]
THE THREE LAKES.

GENEVA, COMO AND TAHOE.
	LAKE GENEVA, or Lake Leman of the
Romans. A celebrated lake of Switzerland
extending in the form of a crescent between
that country and Savoy, occupies a part of
the valley which separates the snowy Alps
from the Jura (joo ra) mountains, forty-five
miles long, with a varying width of be-
tween one to ten miles; it lies 1226 ft.
above sea level and is as many deep, the
color of its waters is deep blue varying to
baby blue and are of remarkable transpar-
ency, it is traversed by the Rhone.
	While at Geneva I stood upon the bridge
Mont Blanc where the Arve and the Rhone
emerged from the lake a pure, transparent
stream. As the rivers come washing down

[Column 2]
the Alps the waters are muddy, the Arve
empties into the Rhone which discharges
its muddy waters into the lake, and runs a
long way ere it mingles with the blue
waters. Longfellow compares this to
Purity and Sin. In 1823 steam navigation
was introduced upon its waters.
	Going aboard the steamer we found
many travelers, it was during the season, a
perfect day the better to enjoy the grandeur
of its scenery and the loveliness of its
shores. The south and west banks have
beautiful towns and picturesque villas, the
abodes of wealth.
	The house occupied by Byron is pointed
out at Coppet, the Chateau of Neckar and
his daughter Madame de’ Stael, at Ferney
the residence of Voltair. We stopped at
Vevey and “Clarens, sweet Clarens, birth-
place of love,” of which Byron wrote. All
was music and poetry. Among the pas-
sengers one while gazing at the snowy
Alps would quote:

	’Thee, Leman's Lake, once more I trace,
	Like Dian’s crescent far beneath,
As beautiful as Pean’s face!
	Pride of the land that gave me birth!
All that thy waves reflect I love,
	Where heaven itself brought down to earth,
Looks fairer than above.”

Then another would quote:

“It is the hush of night and all between
	Thy margin and the mountains, dusk yet clear,
Mellowed and mingling, yet distinctly seen.
	Save darken’d Jura, whose capp’d heights ap-
		pear,
	Precipitously steep; and drawing near,
There breathes a living fragrance, from the
		shore,
	Of flowers yet fresh with childhood, on the ear,
Drops the light drip of the suspended oar,
	Or chirps the grasshopper one good-night carol
		more.”

Or from the Prisoner of Chillon, or from
Rosseau’s Catastrophe of his Heloise, as
their thoughts differed.
	Arriving at the landing of Villeneuve we
are at the head of the lake, between the
Jura and Savoy Alps, the latter include
Mt. Blanc. We watched the glorious sun
set which left a golden path on the lake,
while Castle and Mountains were mirrored
on the surface. Soon the landscape was all
in shadow, leaving delightful memories.
LAKE OF COMO.
	A lake of Lombardy situated at the foot of
the Alps, thirty-five miles long with a vary-
ing breadth of from one to three miles. It
it an expansion of the river Adda, 698 feet
above the sea, 1,925 feet deep, its waters
turquoise blue; it is justly celebrated for
the scenery of its shores, covered with
elegant villas and beautiful gardens.
	From the town of Como, birthplace of
Pliny the younger, we took steamer to
Menaggio, then a boat, going opposite the
fashionable resort, to a solid granite wall
built up out of the water, with water gates,
supplied with steps for embarkation. We
entered the beautiful chateau belonging to
a nobleman; he rented it just as it was,
with cut-glass, silver, dainty china and the
privilege of roaming around the gardens,
and olive, lemon, orange and citron trees,
which no doubt Bulwer describes in “A
deep vale, shut out by Alpine hills from
the rude world, near a clear lake margined
by fruits of gold and whispering myrtles.”
Turn where we would in these enchanting

[Column 3]
grounds, there was something in this beauti-
ful drama that constantly recurred to our
memory, so quotations were heard on all
sides.
	The mountains rise abruptly from the
waters edge, their sides covered with ver-
dure, in many places terraced and planted
with grapes, while perched upon a pinnacle
a thousand feet above you are churches and
monasteries, and in the distance snowy
Alps. Everything was rose color; the
air was perfumed, we heard the murmurs
of low fountains, the music from flutes,
guitars and sweet strains from the band at
Managgio. The palace lifting to eternal
Heaven its marble walls, the softest skies.
We arranged for a moon; God granted fair
weather. While we sailed all night upon
the blue waters we judged them fairer than
day.
LAKE TAHOE.
	It was just sundown when the stage
coach turned a bend in the road and we
came to the very edge of the lake, ensconced
amid the mountains at an altitude of 6,225
feet above sea level on the borders of
Nevada and California in the Sierra Nevada
mountains, its length 22½ miles, greatest
width 13 miles, its depth 1,506 feet, its
waters not blue but wonderfully clear,
looking like a sheet of glass, surrounded
like a wall by the mountains while the
beautiful pines peeped up through the
snow. One German exclaimed “Tahoe,
a jewel with an emerald setting,” while an
old Jew sitting by him said, “Yes a dia-
mond of purest ray.”
	The mountains and pines with Heaven
itself were reflected in its transparent
depths; it was sublimely beautiful, restful.
I said to my father, I am not so weary now.
	So between that loveliest of the Italian
lakes, Como, and our beautiful American
gem, there is no comparison.
						KIM.


SIXTY years ago women could not vote
anywhere. In 1845 Kuntucky gave school
suffrage to widows, In 1861, Kansas gave
it to all women. In 1869 England gave
municipal suffrage to single women and
widows, and Wyoming gave full suffrage
to all women. School suffrage was granted
in 1875 by Michigan and Minnesota, in
1876 by Colorado, in 1878 by New Hamp-
shire and Oregon, in 1879 by Massachu-
setts, in 1880 by New York and Vermont.
In 1881 municipal suffrage was extended to
the single women and widows of Scotland.
Nebraska gave school suffrage in 1883 and,
Wisconsin in 1885. In 1886 school suffrage
was given in Washington, and municipal
suffrage to single women and widows in
New Brunswick and Ontario. In 1887
municipal suffrage was extended to all wo-
men in Kansas, and school suffrage in
North and South Dakota, Montana, Ari-
zona and New Jersey. In 1891 school suf-
frage was granted in Illinois. In 1892,
municipal suffrage was extended to single
women and widows in the Province of
Quebec. In 1893 school suffrage was
granted in Connecticutt, and full suffrage
in Colorado and New Zealand. In 1894
school suffrage was granted in Ohio, a
limited municipal suffrage in Iowa, and
parish and district suffrage in England to
women both married and single. In 1895
full suffrage was granted in South Austra-
lia to women both married and single.
In 1896 full suffrage was granted to wo-
men in Utah and Idaho.              Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Const[-]tution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
ccond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1897.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly hall in this city, on Saturday,
April 3rd, meeting commencing at 2 p. m.
and at 7.30. There will also be a meeting
on Monday, April 5th, at the same place.
It is desirable that there should be as large
a number as possible present of the officers and
members of this important organization, al-
so that every Stake of Zion should be
represented by the President, or some one
authorized to act for her.
	A cordial invitation is extended to the
Bishops and all brethren interested in the
welfare of the Society.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
				President,
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, 
					Counselors,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					Secretary.


THE PIONEER KINDERGARTEN.

	It will no doubt be gratifying to some
of our readers, and especially those inter-
ested in Kindergarten work and in the
Primary Association, to know of the first
movement of this kind made in Utah.
	From Sister Camilla C. Cobb of this
city we have been able to glean a few facts
about her early work, although she is al-
most too modest to have them given at all,
but we consider it her just due, as she was
the pioneer in this beautiful work now
growing in favor everywhere as its real
merits are becoming known. It is the
earnest wish of the writer and of many
others who are at the present time associated
in this work, that our people should com-
prehend more fully the great advantages of
this fundamental training of the children.
	Sister Cobb informs us that it was in the
summer of 1874 that she went East to visit
relatives, and while there and some little
time before returning, she was attracted by
notices in the papers to the Kindergarten
under the management of Dr. Adolph
Douai, a renowned German educator.
	Having received such training herself in
her early childhood in her native place,
the City of Dresden, Germany, and being
most interested in that particular method of
training little children, she concluded to go
and see for herself the manner in which
[Column 2]
the Kindergartens were conducted in
America. Consequently she went from
New York City and took up her abode in
New Jersey where this famous school was
established; called on the venerable old Dr.
and told him she would like to see and
understand something of the workings of
the American Kindergartens, explaining,
however, that she would not have time to
remain long enough to enable her to take
an entire course of training. She also told
the Dr. of her former experience in the
Kindergarten.
	Dr. Douai told her the best way of doing
what she desired with only limited time,
was to go right into the Kindergarten and
take hold with the teachers (who, by the
way, were his own daughters) and instruct 
with what knowledge she had and the ex-
perience she would gain by observing the
other teachers.
	Sister Cobb followed the Dr’s, advice
and being a German herself, as both Eng-
lish and German were taught, it was not
so difficult a task as one would suppose;
her improvement was rapid, and she saw
many things that to her mind always fruit-
ful in ideas, might be added to and improv-
ed. Sister Cobb says, “I need not say
that I enjoyed myself there and felt well re-
paid for the time so profitably spent and the
additional knowledge gained; while there
I was impressed with the grandeur of the
work and began to see Froebel’s grand
ideas were only in part understood, but felt 
that the time would come when justice
would be done to this great educator of
childhood.
	“During my stay in the Kindergarten, I
was surprised with a visit from John W.
Young Esq., who was so delighted with 
what he saw there and so impressed with
the possibility of what might be done in
our far Western home, that he asked me if
I were willing to start a school of this kind
on my return home to Salt Lake City,
promising to aid me all he could; being full
of the spirit of the work I readily assented.”
	Sister Cobb says, and truly "all begin-
nings are difficult and as this system of
teaching was entirely new and unknown to
the people here, I had my ardor somewhat
dampened in trying to establish my Kinder-
garten. However, I concluded to make an
effort if even in a small way, and so with
the children of John W. Young, my own
and some others, I opened the first Kinder-
garten in Utah in the vestry of President
Brigham Young’s old schoolhouse inside
the Eagle Gate. Through the kindness of
Mr. Young the room was suitably and
handsomely furnished. I had brought
some material home with me from the East,
and some I found here, and with a little
ingenuity turned many things not especially
intended for this purpose to splendid ac-
count. I was filled with love of my work,
and while we had not arrived at the excel-
lence that we have since attained to, we
claim to have done a good work.
	“ The same spirit that inspired Froebel
the great master was in our school, and a
happier band of little children I think
would have been hard to find. I also
taught the German language through ob-
ject lessons, and it was surprising to see
how rapidly the little ones gained a knowl-
edge of this language, and it is not long
since I heard a mother, formerly a pupil of
my school, sing to her own babe the little
German songs of the pioneer Kindergarten
of 1874.”
[Column 3]
	Sister Cobb did not give these facts with
a view of our using them in this way, but
it is only proper that she should
have the credit of the work, she
undertook under such adverse circumstan-
ces, and that she so faithfully performed
until other duties and changes came, that
made it impossible for her to continue in
this particular line of teaching.


ELIZABETH DETTE LAKER NOALL.

	THE sudden news of the departure from
this life of Sister Libbie Noall, as she was
generally known by the sisters and her
intimate acquaintances, was a great shock
to her many friends and a loss to the
community. Sister Noall was one of the
loveliest women of her day, in character
and in nobility of soul, and one of the most
active in the Church in the lines of work in
which she was called to take part. She
seemed to possess adaptability for whatever
she undertook to do; the Relief Society, the
Young Ladies’ Association, the Sunday
school and the Primary seemed all equally
dear to her and for each one of these from
time to time she labored faithfully and well.
Very few if any women have accomplished
so much in so short a lifetime, and yet Sis-
ter Noall was a delicate woman physically.
Spiritually she possessed faith, energy,
strength and courage.
	Her principal labors were upon the
Sandwich Islands among the native sisters;
the writer recalls vividly to mind her first
impressions of Sister Noall and the nar-
ration of her work, while upon the first
mission to the Sandwich Islands with her
husband as related after their return in 1889.
But after going back to the islands again,
when her husband was called upon his
second mission, she kept up a correspon-
dence with the writer in reference to the
Relief Society there, and the labors among
the sisters, that brought her very near, and
made her very dear. Her letters were
precious gems of thought, and her ideas and
the lofty conceptions she had of her daily
work, showed plainly how deeply she real-
ized the great responsibility of helping the
native women of these islands, who were
untaught in the principles of the Gospel,
and in the common duties of life in the
home; and their anxiety to become like
their sisters over the sea urged Sister Noall
on, to do and to acquire information and
means to carry on their work in teaching
them, which seemed almost miraculous un-
der the circumstances.
	The pamphlet prepared by Sister Noall
in the Hawaiian language is a credit to her
tact, and also a true expression of her great
desire to instruct the Hawaiian sisters in the
same lines of thought and activity possessed
by the Society in the various Stakes of
Zion; the book contains 32 pages. For
this work our sister sent to the Deseret
News for the cuts of Sister Zina D. H.
Young and her Counselors, so that the sis-
ters there might better understand who
were the women, who were at the head of
this great charitable society.
	The interesting articles we have publish-
ed from those far-off lands, written for the
EXPONENT by Sister Noall, have given our
readers some idea of her arduous labors in
endeavoring to teach them civilized meth-
ods and spiritual development in them-
selves and in the manner of conducting their
meetings.
	Sister Noall was gifted in writing and


[Column 1]
in speaking; her voice was mellifluous and
sweet and she had a great flow of language;
and she was whole-souled and genuine.
It has been stated that she spoke the Hawa-
iian language perfectly as much so as possi-
ble for one not born among them. She
presided over the Relief Society in that mis-
sion and assisted in organizing the Relief
Society in many branches, and traveled
from island to island, in the interest of the
work; she also organized a Primary Asso-
ciation in Honolulu and in Laie. The sad
news of her death will be deeply felt among
the saints in that land. Her devotion to
the Church both in the mission and at
home, is an example our young people
would all do well to follow. Her implicit
faith in the power of the priesthood was
sublimely manifest up to the last moment
of her life.
	Elizabeth Dette Laker was born at St.
Charles, Bear Lake, Idaho, Nov. 11, 1864.
Her parents are Lashbrook and Annie Bry-
son Laker, and in her childhood she was
religiously inclined. She was early identi-
fied with the Sunday school and Mutual
Improvement Association. She was fond
of writing both poetry and prose and was
certainly of a poetic nature.
	Miss Laker married Elder Mathew Noall
June 21, 1885, and in November of the
same year went to the Sandwich Islands
with her husband, remaining three years
and five months at that time, returning
again in December, 1889, Elder Noall
having been chosen to preside over the
mission upon the Sandwich Islands. This
last time they were gone three years and
eleven months, returning in Nov. 1895.
The two missions covering a period of
seven years and four months.
	Shortly after reaching home Brother and
Sister Noall buried one of their children, a
little boy born to them on the islands (one
of three born there) and Sister Noall griev-
ed over her bereavement excessively, and it
is said never quite regained her former
health afterwards, although she made a
very great effort to overcome the excess of
her sorrow. She leaves four children, three
girls and a boy, one a babe four months
old, to mourn the loss of a tender mother
and devoted saint. May the Lord comfort
the sorrowing husband who has been called
to part with a loving wife, the companion
of his youth and may the little children
thus bereft travel in the same safe path as
their dearly beloved mother, who has now
passed behind the veil, that they may all be
reunited again where there is no more sor-
row, grief or pain, nor parting forever.
May these little ones keep ever in mind,
		“A memory of the gentle dead
		A lingering spell of love.”
	Sister Noall died Sabbath morning March
21st, at 4.05 o’clock at her residence in this
city, after a week’s illness with pneumonia.
Her funeral services were held in the
Twenty-second ward meeting house on
Thursday at 2 p. m. The house was filled
with relatives and friends. Numerous
floral emblems testified also of love and
sympathy. The services were conducted
by the Bishop of the ward, Alfred Solo-
mon. Among those who addressed the
congregation on this solemn occasion was
President George Q. Cannon who, because
of his own long and varied experience upon
the Islands, was well prepared to appreciate
the labors of Sister Noall, knowing the
many difficulties to be overcome in such a

[Column 2]
labor as she performed. President Angus
M. Cannon also occupied a short time and
others bore faithful testimonies of her good
works.
	Much as we who are left may regret her
being called away to the “better land,”
yet we must acknowledge our Father’s
will in all things, and remember she rests
from her labors and her works follow her.
Her good name and the record she has
made will live forever in the hearts of the
saints.

Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work,
	like hers, is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our trea-
	sures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth
	His loved ones sleep.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MADAME VON FINKLESTIEN MOUNT-
FORD has been giving her unique enter-
tainment, Living pictures of the Holy land
under the auspices of the Brigham Academy
in several of the larger towns in the State,
both North and South of Salt Lake City.
Madame Mountford will give one of her
series of lectures in the large Tabernacle in
this city on Tuesday evening, April 6th.
	MISS A. M. BEECHER of New York
City is at the Manitou, and is to remain
here for a few weeks longer. Miss Beecher
is the cousin of the Rev. Henry Ward
Beecher, and is in many respects very like
her celebrated cousin. She is a very enter-
taining speaker and in conversation very
agreeable and decidedly humorous and
attractive. The lady has been entertained
by most of the Woman’s Clubs in the city,
and has given what she calls her “drawing
room talks,” and all who have heard ex-
press themselves as being delighted with
her manner of dealing with the live ques-
tions of the day. Miss Beecher will give a
series of three lectures under the auspices
of the Ladies Literary Club of this city.
	THE terrible destruction by the floods on
account of the Mississippi river overflowing,
breaking the levees and destroying property
and causing families to flee for the preserva-
tion of life, cannot fail to be a warning to
all those who believe in the predictions of
prophets, seers and revelators concerning
the calamities of the Latter days. Fires,
floods, cyclones, wars, and rumors of wars,
must cause an awakening to all those who
have hearts “to feel another’s woe.” In-
deed even now the dispatches bring daily
accounts of these things, and of famine and
pestilence, that one is amazed in contem-
plating and cannot but wonder what the
near future will bring.
	THE Woman’s Co-op Store on First
South St., just West of Main St. in the
Nauvoo Building, has been well supplied of
late with new goods, and is in the hands of
women accustomed to business in the city
of London, England, Mrs. Francis and her
daughter. Hats and bonnets in great
variety, of good material and in the latest
styles, are also reasonable in price. Dress-
making is carried on in the establishment
and good satisfaction guaranteed. A
speciality is made of burial clothing of the
finest quality, or prices to suit the purchas-
ers. Fancy goods and also useful articles


for ladies wear and also for fancy work and
embroidery etc. The store is carefully fit-
ted up and the ladies who have interested
themselves in maintaining it solicit the
patronage of the public and are desirous of 
giving satisfaction. As it is the only wo- 
man’s store of the kind in the city it should
be well patronized.


REORGANIZATION AT DRAPER.

	ON Thursday, Feb. 6, 1897, at 10 a. m..
a meeting was held at Draper, Salt Lake
Co. at the Ward house for the purpose of
reorganizing the Relief Society, it being
disorganized by the death of our beloved
President, Sister Hannah Rawlins.
	The meeting was presided over by Bishop
William C. Allen. Singing “How firm a
foundation;” the opening prayer was offer-
ed by Lauritz Smith Sen.; continued by sing-
ing “Behold the Savior of mankind.”
The Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
were present. President Horne gave some
excellent advice with regard to this organ-
ization. The speaker urged all the sisters
to be enrolled as members. Counselors
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon en-
dorsed what the previous speaker had re- 
ferred to; spoke to some extent on the
duties of the teachers of the Society; many
incidents were related about the Prophet
Joseph Smith and the instructions he gave.
	President M. I. Horne was chosen to
preside during the election of officers, and
Sister Sarah Burnham to act as secretary.
The articles of the Association were read
by the Secretary and the result of the
election was, Mrs. Sarah Ann Snow, Presi- 
dent Laura Jane Allen and Caroline
Rowbery, Vice: Presidents; Sarah Burnham,
Secretary; and Nancy Ballard, Treasurer;
Trustees, Mary Emma Terry, Ellen S.
Staker and Maria Comfort Goff.
	After the organization was completed
President Horne and her Counselors and
our worthy Bishop, W. C. Allen, and Elders
Thomas Staker and P. N. Goff gave some
excellent advice, The speakers urged those
who had been elected to magnify their call-
ing, also spoke upon sustaining those who
are placed over us; many things were made
mention of concerning the early rise of the
Church. A good spirit prevailed during
the exercises. Meeting closed by singing
“Softly beams the sacred dawning.” Bene-
diction by Elder Peter M. Goff.
		SARAH BURNHAM, Secretary.


LETTER FROM LULA.

			GRANTSVILLE, Utah,
					March 11, 1897.
Dear Aunt Em:
	Not having been informed just who
would be my companion visitor to this
place, I was very pleased to meet Miss
Rose Wallace at the depot this morning.
Both she and myself had felt a little uneasy,
lest the other missionary might fail to put
in an appearance, and the one be left to
make the visit alone.
	We had a pleasant ride and conversation
on the train. But “ooh”! wasn’t it cold
when we left the car and took the buggies
which the sisters of Grantsville had kindly
sent for us?
	Yesterday, when we had a little cold
squall in the middle of the day in Salt


[Column 1]
Lake City, they had a fierce blizzard here.
And the effects of it still hang around; the
weather is bitter cold.
	Yet, notwithstanding the cold ten miles-
ride from the Half Way House, we reached
the Grantsville meeting house in time for
the opening of the Relief Society Confer-
ence at 10.30, where we received a warm
welcome, were cheered, refreshed and made
comfortable.
	There was not a large turn out at the
forenoon meeting. Most of the leading
sisters of the Stake have been sick lately,
and several of them are still unable to leave
their homes. The Relief Society Stake
President, Sister Mary A. Hunter, is just
recovering from a severe attack of pneu-
monia. First Counselor, Sister Ellen C.
Anderson, was too ill today with sick head-
ache to be up. And although we had din-
ner at her house and were well cared for by
her daughter Hortense, Sister Anderson
was not able for even private conversation.
Second Counselor, Sister Rhoda A. Lyman,
has been suffering with rheumatism, and it
would have been imprudent for her to ven-
ture to ride from Tooele to Grantsville in
the cold wind and sleet today. So you can
understand that the Stake organization of
the Relief Society must appear to be rather
lame just now. But I want to tell you al-
though the authorities I have mentioned
were not present, we have had two excel-
lent meetings today, conducted by Stake
Secretary Mary A. House and Sister Emma
H. Anderson, daughter of President M. A.
Hunter, and Counselor in the Grantsville
Relief Society.
	Sister Rose C. Hammond, President of
the Relief Society in this place, has a very
sick babe, which renders her, also, unable
to attend the conference. But the meetings
have been well conducted, and encouraging
written reports from all but one of the eight
branches belonging to the Stake have been
furnished. Verbal reports were also given
by several presidents and representatives,
which aided much in enlivening the meet-
ings. The matter of storing up grain is
not overlooked by any of the branches re-
ported, but is made a prominent feature in
the industries carried on among them. The
music and singing in our meetings have
been very pleasing to us. Grantsville, I
believe, is noted for its fine singers. A
number of the brethren made us glad with
their presence and their good advice and
kind, encouraging words.
	Our dear and faithful friend, Sister M. A.
House, still goes about like a ministering
angel among the sick and suffering of the
ward.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting she
took us to see Sister Rose Hammond and
her sick child. There we had the sad satis-
faction of speaking words of comfort and
consolation to the sorrowing mother, and
mingling our prayers with her’s in behalf
of her afflicted little one. Also of witness-
ing the spirit of sympathy and loving kind-
ness which exists among the sisters here, to
a very marked degree, when there is a call
for the exercise of these high qualities.
	Several kind invitations were extended
to us for entertainment during our stay;
but as I always make my home with
Brother and Sister House when visiting in
Grantsville, Sister Wallace also joined us
this time, and we are very comfortably
sheltered in their cosy little habitation.
	That is, I am, and my companion was,
and will be again after the meeting this

[Column 2]
evening. Being positively worn out, really
too tired to go to the Young Ladies’ Con-
ference at 7.30 this evening, I have allowed
Miss Wallace to go without me.
	The wind blows wildly and the snow
falls fast. But we hope the young ladies
are having a good, cheering time in their
conference.
	Friday 12th. This morning we had a
delightful time with the children. Sister
Louisa C. Hale, Stake Superintendent of the
Primaries, and her assistants are doing a
noble work among the boys and girls in
this Stake of Zion. Bishop James L.
Wrathall of Grantsville, and several of the
leading brethren met with, and spoke en-
couragingly to the little ones and their
Primary officers.
	In the afternoon we met with the officers
of the three associations, Relief Society,
Young Ladies’ and Primaries. It was
truly a time of rejoicing and spiritual re-
freshing to us all. The older sisters and
young ones mingled their voices in songs
of praise, in prayer and testimony, and the
Spirit of the Lord was richly poured out,
strengthening, instructing and enlightening
all in the things of God.
	That was the closing of the conferences
and meetings which Sister Wallace and my-
self were appointed to attend. We have
both enjoyed much freedom in speaking to
the congregations with whom we have met,
and have rejoiced greatly with the people
here.
	After the Teacher’s meeting, as the
sisters called the last one, we again visited
Sister Hammond and her suffering darling,
in company with Sister House. Spoke as
cheeringly and soothingly as we could, and
Sister Hammond expressed herself as feel-
ing blest, and grateful for our visits. Her
little one still lingers between life and
death; but as it continues to grow weaker
there are now but faint hopes of its re-
covery. Before its illness it was evidently
a remarkably sweet and bright child.
	This evening we are glad to rest in our
friends’ quiet home, preparatory to a visit
to President M. A. Hunter tomorrow morn-
ing, and a ride home in the afternoon. We
have looked over Secretary House’s book,
and find it in excellent order; every thing re-
corde dup to date.
	Saturday 13th. President M. A. Hunter
we find bright and cheery as a girl. Glad
to see us and talk over business matters
connected with the Society, old times, the
experiences of our missionary boys, Temple
work etc. No one would suppose Sister
Hunter to be seventy years old from her
appearance but she is. She has not ven-
tured out of doors since her recent attack
of pneumonia. We have dinner with her,
and one of her grandsons takes us the ten
miles ride to the train. This finishes our
pleasant and successful visit to Grantsville.
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.
	P. S. Just before we left Sister Hunter’s
place, Sister Hammond’s son Willie came
in to tell us the baby, little Paul Leland,
died at noon. All we can now do is to ex-
tend our continued sympathy to the bereav-
ed family.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INFANT FUNERAL HYMN.
(“Tune Nearer My God To Thee”)
PEACE to thee, little one,
	Gone from our fold!
Quickly thy course was run,
	Thy story told.


Peace to the hearts that mourn,
Sadly bereft and torn—
Christ hath all sorrows borne—
	God’s will be done !

Let not our thoughts remain,
	Neath the cold sod,
Where thy fair form is lain,
	Lead us to God;
Where thy pure spirit bright,
Basks in eternal light,
Where there is no more night,
	No death nor pain.

Though from thy mother’s breast,
	Death carries thee,
By angel arms caressed,
	Now thou art free,
In glory like the sun—
God’s loving will be done!
Peace to thee, little one—
	Rest, Darling, Rest!
						L. L. G. R.


R. S. REPORTS.

BEAVER STAKE.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	MINUTES of Conference of Beaver Stake
Relief Society held in the Society Hall,
Beaver City, Utah, March 5, 1897, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m., Counselor
S. M. Dell presiding.
	Present of the brethren, Pres’t. C. D.
White and counselors, M. L. Shepherd and
J. F. Tolton, Bishop Geo. Mumford and
counselors, S. O. White, Patriarch Daniel
Tyler and others.
	Singing “And are we yet alive;” prayer
by Counselor M. L. Shepherd; singing “O
God our help in ages past;” minutes of
previous conference read and approved.
	Counselor S. M. Dell made a few open-
ing remarks, felt glad to see the sisters out
to conference. President Jane W. Bickley
reported the Beaver Relief Society in good
condition.
	President White felt pleased to meet in
conference with the sisters. “Bishops
appreciate the help they receive from the
Relief Society and the people ought to be-
cause they are a great blessing to all classes.
They are doing a good work and ought to
be sustained.” Spoke at some length on
the grain question, very much regretted
the accident to Sister Howd, felt satisfied
the Lord was pleased with her faithful
labors and would reward her for them.
	Statistical and financial reports of wards
and Stake were read. Counselor M. L.
Shepherd thought the sisters had ac-
complished a great amount of good. As
the people of the Lord we need to do every-
thing to the best possible advantage, also
live in peace with each other, without
jealousies and evil speaking, thus shall we
receive the blessings of our heavenly
Father.
	Sister Tyler thought the instructions we
had received excellent. All her labors had
been done willingly and cheerfully. “The
Prophet Joseph turned the key for women
and they are taking their place in the
world. May we all be earnest and faithful
in our labors.”
	Patriarch D. Tyler felt thankful that he
could hear and enjoy the most that was
said. The work the sisters have done in the
past speaks for them and testifies of their
faithful labors, and they will receive a
great reward.
	President C. D. White said they had
selected Sister R. W. Tyler for Stake presi-


dent, spoke very highly of her past labors,
said she is well qualified for the position. 
	The following officers were then present-
ed and unanimously sustained: Mrs. Ruth
W. Tyler President; Mrs. Mary A. White
First Counselor; Mrs. Cedarena C. Shep-
herd Second Counselor; Alice M. T. Tan-
ner Secretary.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice:” benediction by
Counselor J. F. Tolton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Meeting con-
vened at 2 o’clock p.m., President R. W.
Tyler presiding. Prayer by Elder John
Griffiths; singing “O say what is truth.”
President Martha Walker of Minersville,
Sister Mary A. Jones of Adamsville and
President Mary Morris of Greenville re-
ported their branches of the Society in good
condition and working unitedly. Each
Society had change of officers at re-election
in February. Singing “We thank Thee
O God for a prophet.” Elder Watkin
Reese of Adamsville encouraged the sis-
ters in their good work. “We will meet
the records we make here when we pass
beyond the vale.”’
	Bishop Mumford was very much pleased
in viewing our granray. Spoke of the im-
portance of storing grain, spoke on economy
and the necessity of teaching our children
this principle.
	Elder John Briggs spoke in regard to the
training of our children. Counselor M. A.
White spoke on the same subject and gave
mothers excellent advice on the course to
pursue with our children. Prof. W. G.
Bickley said “We have had a feast this
afternoon.” Spoke of the greatness of the
gospel work and its spread, also spoke
encouragingly of the labors of the Relief
Society.
	President R. W. Tyler said that although
our labors have been great while building,
we have endeavored to see that none suffer-
ed. Encouraged the sisters to support the
EXPONENT.
	President C. D. White said every mother
in Israel should belong to the Relief Soci-
ety; teach our daughters to be virtuous and
throw a shield around our sons and daugh-
ters, also teach them obedience to the Priest-
hood of their parents, and not let them hear
us find fault with the authorities.
	Presidents J. W. Bickley and R. W.
Tyler spoke in regard to the grain. Meet-
ing adjourned for six months. Singing
"Lord dismiss us;” benediction by Bishop
George Mumford.
		R. W. TYLER, Pres’t.
		ALICE M. T. TANNER, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	IN MEMORIAM.

	SlSTER KAREN PEDERSON NIELSEN

	SISTER KAREN PEDERSON NIELSEN died o
pneumonia at her home in American Fork on
Friday, Feb. 5, 1897, after an illness of one week.
Sister Nielsen was born at Vesterby on the Island
of Oland, Denmark, Dec 20, 1827, received the
Gospel and was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, Nov. 3, 1853.
Was married to Niels Nielson Feb. 3, 1854, and
emigrated the same year, arriving in Utah Oct.
5, and has resided in American Fork since 1856.
She leaves a husband and six children, one son
and five daughters. She was a faithful, and
energetic teacher in the Relief Society for more
than 20 years and always ready and willing to
wait on the sick both day and night. We revere
her memory as an humble, patient, persevering
Latter-day Saint and we miss her in our meetings,
for her testimony was true and faithful and al-
ways cheering and comforting. We realize that
all is well with her, for she has gone to receive

[Column 2]
the reward of the faithful, and may be a link
in the chain that binds us to our heavenly Father.
We sincerly condole with the bereaved family and
friends in this dispensation of Providence, and
pray the Lord to enable them to bear the burden
with humility and resignation. She has truly
fought the good fight and will gain her reward in
the Kingdom of God.

		EMILY HELEN TREASURE.

	IT is with feelings of deep regret that we have
to record the death of our much beloved sister
and friend, Emily Helen Treasure, who died Feb.
5, 1897, aged sixty-seven years.
	She was a faithful, unassuming, consistent
Latter-day Saint, and we realize our loss is her
gain. She has been the secretary of our Relief
Society ever since its organization in March 1885.
She was a model of promptness and order in
her books, for her records were kept in the best
of order and correctness.
	In losing her we have lost a very useful woman
and her place will be hard to fill.
	She has been a faithful member of the Church
for about forty years. She joined the Church in
Williamsburg, New York, and came to Utah in
1861, settled in Smithfield, Cache Co. and lived
there about ten years, then moved to Treasure-
ton, Bannock Co., Idaho and resided there un-
til her death.
	While residing in Smithfield she married Elder
William Treasure, a widower with seven children,
and proved herself a kind, loving mother to those
children who now gather round her bier, grieving
for the loss of a good mother. She never had
any children of her own. She has left a host of
step grand-children and friends to mourn her loss.
	May we emulate her noble example and live to
be worthy to meet her in the'morning of the first
Resurrection.
				Your sisters in the Gospel
					E. J. WILLIAMS, Pres
	JANE SMITH,
	SARAH J. SANT, Couns.
Treasureton, Idaho.
[Deseret Evening News please copy.]

		SARAH A. PITCHFORTH.

	DIED at the family residence in Nephi, Juab
Co., Utah, Feb. 24th, 1897, after a short illness of
bronchitis, Sister Sarah A. Pitchforth, beloved
wife of the late Samuel Pitchforth. She was
born Jan 13, 1829 at Swinton, Yorkshire, England,
was the daughter of John and Esther Golds-
brough, was at the time of her death sixty-seven
years, eight months and ten days old. She was
baptized as a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints Sep. 5. 1849, left her
home on Jan. 1, 1850 and journeyed towards the
home of the Saints, arriving at Salt Lake City
Oct. 1, of the same year. She came in a sailing
vessel and crossed the plains in the old, slow,
tedious way, was married to the late Samuel
Pitchforth Dec. 20, 1851 and was the mother of
twelve children, six of whom have preceded her
to the great beyond. She thus leaves six child-
ren, twenty-two grand-children and a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	She moved to Nephi with the family in 1852,
and has resided there ever since. She passed
through a great many trials and privations inci-
dent to the early settling of these valleys, but was
never heard to murmur or complain, but on the
contrary always had words of comfort and sym-
pathy to offer to those with whom she met. She
was a loving and affectionate wife mother and
friend.
	She was a teacher in the Relief Society and
faithfully discharged her duties in that capacity
for a number of years prior to her death.
	The funeral services were held in the Stake
Tabernacle, on Feb. 27, 1897.
	Appropriate remarks were made by Apostle
Teasdale, Presidents Angus M. Cannon and Wm.
Paxman and her Bishop.
	A large cortege followed the remains to the
cemetery where all that was earthly of our much
loved friend and sister was laid in the tomb by
the side of her departed husband and children.

	Dear sister, how we mourn our loss
	    Thou wert faithful, kind and true;
	And nobly bore your daily cross,
	     As He who sent desired you to.
	Dear Sister Sarah Ann has gone to rest,
	     She was prized by all who knew her worth;
	Her mission was to comfort and to bless,
	     While God saw fit to lend her to this earth
	She labored with untiring zeal
	     Nor deemed her cross too hard to bear;
	’Till God in mercy called her home
	     And a glorious crown awaits her there,

[Column 3]
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO THE MEMORY OF
	SISTER SARAH A. PITCHFORTH.

	WHEREAS, Death has come into our midst
and taken from us our honored sister whom we
all loved, and an earnest supporter and teacher of
the society, be it
	RESOLVED, By the members of this Society that
we tender to the bereaved family our sincere
sympathy, and earnestly desire that God will
comfort them in their affliction.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family, a copy placed on record, and
one forwarded to the EXPONENT.
		E. R. UDALL,
				     President,
		M. A. GROVER,
		K L. PAXMAN,
						      Committee.


TO THE MEMORY OF GRANDMA
FREE.

	As the sun arose so beautiful and calm
one summer’s morning in the present cen-
tury, it brought into this world one noble
spirit, who has lived long and well, and
one too who has recently been called
“home ” to meet a host of friends, clasp
hands with noble ancestry, and wear the
crown of wife, mother, sister and compan-
on among those gone before. This time
we speak of Sister Sarah Hyder Free.
“Grandma,” as we familiarly called her,
was born of English parentage, her father
Wm. Jarrold being an honored officer in
the Duke of York’s regiment, located at
Summer Hill, Ireland in the year eighteen
hundred. It was here his babe was born
on July 20th of that year but he soon re-
turned to Cambridge with his family and
here Grandma’s earlier days were spent.
	At the age of twenty-four she married
Richard H. Hyder, but was left a widow
with six children in 1838. She was the
second person to embrace the Gospel in
Cambridge. With her three surviving
daughters she set sail for Salt Lake City in
March, 1851, and reached her destination in
October of the same year. Many of the
early trials of crossing the plains with ox
teams she unmurmuringly endured. Her
daughters married as a result of which
twenty-seven grand-children and sixty-six
great grand-children have honored her
name.
	Just think, dear reader, there are but
few indeed living today who can tell of the
great war of 1812, but ’t is only a short
time ago that some incidents of it could
have been told by our departed one.
Grandma often said, “I shall live to see
every son-in-law of mine laid peacefully
to rest.” This was fulfilled completely,
Brother Edward W. Davis being the last
one to complete that assertion. As the
light breeze of 1851 wafted Grandma’s
sailing vessel from the old world to the
new, after she had braved every peril and
finally landed her cargo on a brighter shore
—so has it been with the ships of Christ in
her case. She boarded that ship in the
bloom of womanhood, stood by it when
clouds of destruction arose and threatened
its safety, maintained her integrity to it
through summer hours and winter’s blasts
unto her very last moment. Truly all who
knew her can say, “she has fought the good
fight, she has kept the faith,” she has en-
dured faithfully to the end in the Truth,
and there are treasures in Heaven awaiting
her coming to claim them; which she has
done, having passed peacefully away on
the 18th ult. She shall awake again and
in glory dwell when “the dead in Christ
shall live.”			—S. E. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.

	On the afternoon of Monday the 8th an
enjoyable, and to those who participated in
it, a long to be remembered event took
place at the new residence of Sister Julia
Ives Pack, the occasion being the eightieth
anniversary of the birthday of that estima-
ble lady. About 3 p. m. those of Sis-
ter Pack’s children who reside here, with
a few others of the family surprised her,
bringing with them good wishes and good
cheer. The afternoon was spent in pleasant
converse and reminiscences of other days,
until just as the shades of evening fell a
burst of song from an adjoining room
heralded the arrival of the grandchildren
swelling the number to forty-two. A
bountiful feast was quickly spread and after
all had partaken, the cozy parlors were
again sought and a pleasing program car-
ried out, consisting of songs, recitations
and speeches. The latter were responded
to in a feeling manner by Mother Pack; also
by Sister Ruth M. Pack. A pleasing
feature in the program was the reading of
a poetical address by Sister Laura C. Pack,
also an historical sketch in verse, of events
in Sister Packs life, followed by a brief his-
torical address from the pen of Pres’t.
Ward E. Pack, for the benefit of the young-
er members of the family. With many
happy wishes and kind good nights, the
party separated feeling that such reunions
are as a rich oasis in the arid journey of
life.
	March 12th, 1897.
TO OUR MOTHER.
Dear mother, we lovingly greet thee
	This day of thy eightieth year,
In thy snug little home so cosy and neat
	And near to thy children so dear 

Though some are not now here with us, 
Though mountains and vales intervene,
We know their hearts with ours unite
	To crown their dear mother a queen. 

And bravely, yes nobly you’ve earned it,
	Through scenes of affliction and strife
Have e’er been a fond, loving mother,
	A noble and true, loving wife.

Your hand has been free to the needy
	To give succor to the poor and oppressed;
The suffering and needy have blessed you
	For you’ve cheered them in sorest distress.

We hope when the warm summer breezes
	Again shall kiss our fair land,
Our loved ones will come here to join us
	And again clasp the warm, loving hand.

We will do all we can to make welcome
	And happy while with us they stay,
We will have a reunion to strengthen
	And comfort us each on our way.

And we trust that each will look forward
	To the Grand Reunion to come,
And hope we may welcome each other
	Again in our Great Father’s home.


THE RESOLUTIONS.
	RESOLVED, That the National American
Woman Suffrage Association is and will
continue to be non-partisan, and appeals to
men of all parties to secure suffrage for wo-
men: 
	RESOLVED. That we rejoice in the estab-
lishment during the past year of full wo-
man suffrage by the States of Utah and
Idaho making with Wyoming and Colorado,
four free states for women.


RESOLVED, That the magnificent vote in
California (110,000 in favor of woman suf-
frage to 117,000 opposed) being a majority
of the votes of the entire State outside of
San Francisco and Oakland, show that the
heart and conscience of the people are with
us, and we recommend the immediate re-
submission of the question:
	RESOLVED, That we will continue to
petition Congress to protect women citizens
in their right to vote by a sixteenth consti-
tutional amendment and every other form
of appropriate legislation.
	RESOLVED, That we urge each State soci-
ety to memorialize its legislature at every
session for full legal and political equality
for women in every form and to secure
hearings in its behalf.
	RESOLVED, That as representatives of
the women of America, we are opposed
to the barbarism of war: we declare our
hearty approval of the treaty of arbitration
between the United States and Great
Britain, and we respectfully call upon our
senators to ratify the same.
	RESOLVED, That we thank Mr. Washing-
ton Duke, of Durham, N. C., and cordially
appreciate the gift of $100,000 to Trinity
college of that State on condition that
women shall receive the equal advantages
with men. 
	RESOLVED, Whereas it is stated that
Miss Stahlnacker alone has passed the civil
service examination for translator of mod-
ern languages in the office of the United
States Adjutant General, which requires
ability to speak and write six modern
languages, and to translate one to the other;
and
	Whereas, the Adjutant General refuses to
appoint her solely because she is a man,
therefore, be it
	RESOLVED, That we respectfully petition
the national executive to enforce the princi-
ple of civil service reform in application to
her appointment;
	RESOLVED, That we thank the Iowa
Senate for their courtesy in inviting the
Convention to present its claim before that
honorable body;
	RESOLVED, That we thank the people
of Des Moines for their generous hospitality
to the delegates in attendance on this
convention; to the newspapers of the city
for their full and fair report, and to the rail-
roads of the country for reduced rates; to
Frank A. Walden for the use of a type-
writer; to the Kimball Piano Co. for the
use of a piano.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Chicago Political Equality League
closes its public meetings for the season
with an all day meeting Saturday, April
3rd, at the Woman’s Club Hall. Forenoon
session at 10.30; afternoon at 2.30.
Among the speakers will be Mrs. Florence
Kelly, on Women and Children in Fact-
ories; Mrs. W. H. Rand, on the Women’s
and Children’s Protective Agency; Rev. J.
A. Rondthaler, D. D., on Woman Suffrage;
Mrs. Jennie C. Hutchins, on Current Suf-
frage Events; Mrs. Helen E. Starrett, on
Asking for her Share of Power; Mrs. Mary
Knowles Bartlett, on The Woman Question
in Mrs. Ward’s “Marcella” and “Sir
George Tressady;” Dr. Julia Holmes
Smith, on The Woman Question in Mere-
dith’s “Diana of the Crossways.”    —Ex.


THE Woman’s National Press Associa
tion transacted a good deal of routine busi-
ness at its meeting, March 19, and appoint-
ed Clara B. Colby and Carrie Harrison a
committee to draft a memorial to the Presi-
dent, asking his good office in securing the
impartial execution of the civil service laws,
and that the chiefs of divisions be no longer
allowed to discriminate against women in
the selection of clerks.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL BEGIN HER
Class: in : Obstetrics
	On Monday April 12th 1897 with improved
facilities for instruction in this important study.
Special terms are given to societies sending
students. For further particulars communicate
with
ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D
75 Center St Salt Lake City Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS

[Union Pacific logo with the following text on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE.

[the following is written to the right of the above logo]
The
People's
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’ for Chicaga,
St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
City, Denver and Park City......... 7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
Denver...........................7:00 p m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“T[-]e Overland Lim[-]ted,” from Chi-
cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
Denver and Park City..........3:10 p m.
"The Fast Mail," f[-]om Chicago, St.
Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
City and Denver................3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Ch[---]
Cars.
S. H. H. CLARK,
OLIVER W. MINK,
E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
JOHN W. DOANE,
FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
Receivers.
E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
H. M. CLAY, Gene[-]al Agent.


[Illegible handwritten note]

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 129

Vol. 25. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1897.	H O	No. 20


CONTENTS:
	The Silk Industry—Ann C. Woodbury. Mary
Stuart. Hawaii—M. A. Lambert. Eighty
Years—E. E. P. F. A Biographical Sketch
—Lucinda Snow. U. W. P. C.—Orielle Cur-
tis, Sec. R. S. Reports—Sanpete Stake—Wayne
Stake.
	EDITORIAL:---The General Conference Re-
miniscences Of Pioneer Days. General Con
ference Relief Society. Editorial Notes.
	Poetry:—My Surest Trust—H. W. N. To
Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.—E. B. W. The Old Songs
—L. M. Hewlings.


For the Exponent.
		MY SUREST TRUST.

FATHER, Thou art my trust, my all,
To Thee in trials oft I call,
	My voice is hushed to friend and kin,
	But Thy great heart hath room within !

So I Thine ear would supplicate,
Though dwelling here in low estate;
	May sinful, weak and erring, 1
	Still love Thy name. My God Most High!

I sing Thy praises, read Thy word,
My prayers Thou Lord hast often heard;
	And I Thy servants will sustain,
	Long as Thy Spirit I obtain !  

Mercy from Thee I humbly claim,
Unworthy yet to bear Thy name;
	As I to all this boon extend,—
	So do to me, my own dear Friend !

When this life like a dream is past,
Give me a place near Thee at last,
	Whose Love and Truth and Life are one,
	Within the Kingdom of Thy Son !
H. W. N.


TO ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.

FIFTIETH BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY
		  (JANUARY 20, 1897.)

WE cannot bind upon your brow a laurel wreath,
	Though richly you deserve such honors here;
But we have come in love and blessing to your
		home
	And to our hearts you are most truly dear;
And we will celebrate with you and yours today
The anniversary of years now passed may.
Yet we can scarce believe 't is fifty long, long
		years,
	Since from celestial heights you came to stay
Awhile upon the earth, a mission to fulfill;
	Your face is still so fair, your spirit bright alway;
But you have labored long and well, we know;
And that is partly why, we love you so.
Your gen’rous soul is full of tender sympathy,
	And you have been a friend in very deed
Unto the destitute, as well as the distressed,
	Yea giving comfort in the hour of need.
The sweetness of your voice breathes gentle
		tenderness;
And may your days to come be full of happiness.
We bring to you today the sweetest thoughts we
	have,
We greet you Doctor—poet, singer of sweet
	songs,


We call you friend and sister, sacred names, and
		pray
	That every blessing which to saint belongs
May come to you, and yours, now and forever-
	more;
And that we all may meet, in love, when time is
	o’er. 
E. B. W.


[Column 1]
For the Exponent

THE SILK INDUSTRY.

	THERE is probably no industry that we
could have established among us that would
be more beneficial to the poorer classes of
people than silk culture. The work is 
comparatively light, and the capital neces-
sary to produce the cocoons and reeling the
silk is trifling.
	Our climate is remarkably well adapted
to the growth of the mulberry tree; much
of our soil contains more or less alkali, and
this has the effect of shortening the life of
the peach and almond trees, but this does
not seem to be the case with the mulberry
tree. It thrives here to a wonderful ex-
tent indeed. I have heard Europeans say
the mulberry will make a greater growth in  
one year here, than in six years in Europe.
Although this is probably an exaggeration,
it is nevertheless true, that if the success of 
the silk industry depends upon the success-
ful raising of the mulberry, success in that 
line would be already assured.
	Many mulberry trees have been planted
here, and many of them are in existance
now. Our climate is perhaps not less per-
fectly adapted to the growth of the silk 
worm. This has been proven to a demon-
stration, as it is attested by the fact that we 
have on hand now in this county about
eight hundred pounds of cocoons which
have been produced here, but for want of
a market could not be disposed of.
	Many people have learned how to care
for the silkworm, but not being able to dis-
pose of their cocoons, and not being able to
reel them or to put them into marketable
shape they have become discouraged, and
the only hope for the continuance and the 
development of this industry is either to
find a market for our cocoons, or to learn
how to reel them and to put the silk 
into a marketable shape.
	With this idea in view we have been
working and experimenting all winter, and
we have concluded that with a little in-
struction and experience we can make reel-
ing a success, and we can put our silk in a 
shape that will place it in the market. I
took some twist which we had made to
a tailor of this city, and after working with 
it he pronounced it good. At a trifling
cost for machinery, I am satisfied that the
silk can be worked up into many useful
articles, sewing silk, lace, neckties etc.,
can be made and that of silk of our own 
manufacture.
	Perhaps I may be considered an enthu-
siast on the silk question, but when I look
about me and see the thousands of young 
people that are growing up around me, and

[Column 2]
realize that the husbands and fathers are
struggling on the farms to sustain their
loved ones, and that there seems to be so 
few things that they can raise which will
command a ready sale and enable them to
obtain means for buying clothing and other
cash articles; when I realize that four 
pounds of cocoons that are worth only four 
dollars, can be worked up into a pound of
silk which will be worth eight dollars; that 
this silk will command a ready sale for 
cash and that the work can be done by the 
women and children, and at the same time
be light, and pleasant, and profitable.
	When I realize this may I not be pardon-
ed for being an enthusiast? Is it any won-
der that I have spent many anxious days
and sleepless nights endeavoring to solve
the problem of putting our silk in a market-
able shape?
	In my mind's eye I can see before me a 
vast field of good opening up. I see how a 
people may become self-sustaining; how
the widow and the fatherless may be found
employment that will make them no longer
dependents and paupers, but enable them to 
hold up their heads in the consciousness
that they are self-supporting. I see the 
possibility of adding to our list of exports,
another article which will assist in stopping
that constant drain of money that goes out 
to pay for the articles we import.
	In conclusion, Sister Alger, the President
of the Silk Association of St. George, has
secured land for planting out mulberry
trees, which we trust will be a blessing in 
the future. Now let us say that we desire
to enlist the services, and we invite the co-
operation of all interested in the welfare of 
our growing State, and her growing in us-
tries, to aid us in making the industry a
success. The State gives us encouragement
and aid; the silk commission is laboring
with its might, and now let the people not 
slacken their efforts.
	Don't refuse to raise more cocoons be-
cause of the discouragement of the past,
but believe, with us, that the "darkest
hour is just before the dawn."
	Let this year see a great increase in the 
production of cocoons, and believe that the 
way will open up so that they will be a 
blessing and a profit to us.
			ANN C. WOODBURY


“MOTHER” JOHNS, Mrs., Laura M.
Johns’s mother-in-law, is in her eighty-
sixth year. She spent last summer in
Colorado with a daughter on a ranch four-
teen miles from their voting place. She
was duly registered—all voters in Colorado
must register—and would have voted, but
for a failure in health which prevented her,
to her great disappointment and that of her
family. She took much interest in politics,
and read much during the summer. She
is now at her son’s home at Salina, Kan.,
and has an opportunity to cast a full ballot
for all municipal officers.
	WHEN Priscilla Delano Spooner went to
cast her vote for members of the board of
education at Kent, Ohio, she promptly
answered 101 years and 4 months.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MARY STUART.

READ BEFORE THE REAPERS CLUB
SEP. 1897.
	The beginning of the 16th Century found
Scotland suffering from domestic broils
which often led to war and bloodshed.
	The house of Hamilton contended for the
regency during the minority of James the
V. and resisting their claims were the
Clans of, Stuart and Douglas After a.
severe struggle of many years the regency
was given to the Douglas faction; and
quoting Miss Benger "Under their admin-
istration might was right.” Armed men
infested the halls of justice, and although
exempted from foreign war, the barons
maintained a petty warfare which in its
consequences was infinitely more calami-
tous. Each insulated castle inspired dis-
trust. The forest districts were occupied
by hordes of banditti; even in populous
towns the citizens were often disturbed by
the alarum bell, or trumpet calling to arms.
Every species of outrage was committed
with impunity upon the weaker sex;
throughout Scotland there, was no sanctuary
for innocence, no tribunal of justice. And
added to these troubles were the religious
dissensions caused by the rise of the Ref-
ormation, and the consequent hatred exist-
ing between the Reformers and the Papists.
in the year 1542 Henry. VIII. was on the
throne of England vigorously encouraging
Protestantism, and with the clergy as tools,
hurling defiance at Pope Clemant VII, and
his orders of excomunication.
	Amidst all this disquiet was born, Dec-
ember 7, 1542, Mary Stuart, as Bell says
“ the loveliest and most unfortunate wo-
man that ever lived.”
	Daughter of James the V.of Scotland and
Mary of Guise. She was their third child,
two sons having died in infancy. When but
seven days old her father James the V. died,
leaving her the legacy of a kingdom dis-
tracted with civil wars and threatened with
foreign invasion. The Earl of Arran was
appointed regent, and the infant queen was
crowned when nine months old. Henry
VIII. prepared to unite the two kingdoms
by marrying his son Edward to Mary. But
this offer was rejected by the Scots, and a
closer alliance was formed between Scot-
land and France for their mutual protec-
tion against England. Mary’s mother was
a woman of high intellectual and moral
qualities. As a foreigner she had little
sympathy with the parties around her but
sought to unite them. She was ambitious
for her daughter’s welfare; and when
through the influence of her brothers the
Princes of Guise, a treaty of marriage was
proposed between the Dauphin, son of
Henry II.and Catherine D,’ Medecis, it was
received by her with great joy and as part
of the treaty the queen was to be educated
in France, until the marriage could be sol-
emnized. For two years after her corona-
tion she was permitted to remain in Ster-
ling Castle under the control of the Earls of
Livingstone and Mar. Later being threat-
ened by the approach of the English Army
was removed for greater security to Dum-
barton Castle.
	Here her education was strictly attended
to. and over nurse, governess and tutors,
presided her mother, and knowing that it
would be more rapidly advanced in a class,
she selected four girls about her daughter’s
age, each bearing the name of Mary. First
came Mary Beaton, daughter of the Cardi-
[Column 2]
nal, Mary Fleming, daughter of Lord Flem-
ing, the third, Mary Livingstone and last
Mary Seaton whose father Lord Seaton was
a faithful friend of the royal family. She
remained at Dumbarton for three years
with these chosen companions, and at this
early age had commenced the study of Latin
among her other lessons, and by her apti-
tude in learning, and her gentleness and
docility, soon won the hearts of all around
her. In her sixth year she left Scotland
for France. “ From the hour of her birth,”
says Miss Benger, “until her embarkation
for France the heiress of James V. had been
surrounded as a prisoner with sentinels
and fortified walls, the symbols of subjec-
tion and captivity.”
	She arrived at Brest in July 1548, where
she was received with great honor. In
company with the king’s daughters she
was sent to a convent to be instructed, and
here was implanted within her mind that
ever abiding faith in Catholicism. So read-
ly did she comply with whatever was re-
quired of her, and so zealous was she in her
religious duties, that the nuns declared
Mary Stuart would be a saint on earth; and
began to cherish ambitious hopes that her
life would be a religious one. These re-
ports reaching the ears of Henry II. caused
her removal to the palace. Her Mary’s
were still her constant companions, and the
most eminent men of the day were her
instructors. She studied Latin under
Buchanan, the historian, one of the most
learned men of the 16th Century, poetry
under Ronsard, in which she had decided
talent, as the few poems which have been
preserved will show. French she spoke as
fluently as her native tongue and was
equally skilled in music and dancing.
	Some writers declare the court of Henry II.
surpassed all other times in looseness of
morals, and even say that Mary Stuart im-
bibed a disregard for chastity that influenced
her actions in after life. I would not ex-
cuse the life of Henry II.but ask you to re-
member that a monarch does not mirror a
people, and that his court appears bright
indeed compared a little later with that of
Charles IX. under Catherine, and although
his queen was set aside for Diana, we re-
member Elizabeth and the Earl of Leices-
ter; the Scottish court where woman of
rank did not hesitate to live openly with
nobles on whom they had no legal claim,
as instance Marian, the Mistress of Cardinal
Beaton. I do not wish to palliate these
crimes, but to add, that among the galaxy
of the talented men and women gathered at
the court, and so great a number has never
appeared on one scene, before nor since,
there must have been much that was up-
right and moral. This was the epoch of
learning in France, and it was considered
necessary for those desiring a finished, liber-
al education to resort there. Many women
of rank were under the tuition of scholars
and orators. Such names as Margaret of
Savoy, sister of the king, Anne of Este,
and Margaret of Navarre, all women of
superior education and undoubted morals;
of the former it is said she governed an em-
pire not inferior to that of the king, as she
reigned over the minds and affections of his
subjects, who in expressing their admiration
for her wisdom and uprightness gave her the
title of Minerva. History has given us the
lives of these women and they are noble.
Mary’s marriage with Francis was solemn-
ized with the greatest splendor, the festivi-
ties lasting for fifteen days. Never had
such magnificence been seen in Paris.
[Column 3]
	Mary was in her sixteenth year, and all
writers unite in praise of her beauty which
did not consist in the regularity of her fea-
tures alone, but in the soul that illuminated
them, and in the charm and sweetness of
her manner. She was above the ordinary
height, finely proportioned and in her
movements graceful and dignified. Her
complexion clear with beautiful brown
hair and eyes. Brantome compares her to
the sun at midday and declares that no man
ever saw her without losing his heart. It
was on this, the occasion of her marriage,
that great offence was given Elizabeth,
then on the throne of England. The arms
of England were placed with those of Scot-
land and France upon the royal Banners,
and Francis and Mary were given the titles
king and Queen of England; Elizabeth
never forgot this nor that Mary had ardent
supporters in the Pope and the powerful
political party of France, led by her uncles.
When we consider the claims of Mary Stu-
art to the crown of England they do not
appear so presumptive. As grand-niece of
Henry VIII. who had illegitimatized his
daughters Mary and Elizabeth; after the
death of his son Edward, Mary Stuart was
next in succession. Her claims were then
urged by the Scottish parliament, but with-
out avail. One year after the marriage of
Francis and Mary, Henry II. was killed in
a tournament and they were king and queen
for the short period of seventeen months.
Then Francis died leaving the young wife
a widow at seventeen. Charles IX. was
appointed king with his mother Catherine,
as regent. She made no effort to conceal
her dislike for Mary Stuart, whom she had
always opposed, and only through motives
of policy endured.
	Political and religious changes were now
rapidly taking place. Mary’s supporters
were no longer in the ascendant and she
was unfortunate in being an object of
suspicion to England, Scotland and France.
To Elizabeth who looked upon her as a
rival, and if opportunity presented an usur-
per of her throne. To Scotland for her Cath-
olic religion, as the Reformers were now in
the majority there. To France, who dread-
ed a foreign alliance, especially with Spain.
She realized that with all these changes
France was no longer her home, and that
duty and allegiance required her to return
to Scotland. In sorrow she departed from
France that had been a happy home to her
for thirteen years, and as the vessel left the
port she stood with streaming eyes watch-
ing the receding shore; as if in prophetic
vision she saw before her the prison and the
scaffold. And well might she sorrow; ac-
customed to the luxury and refinement of
the court. Her associates men and women of
letters and cultivation; courted-and flattered
on every side: educated as queen of Scot-
land and prospective queen of France and
England; and for a few short months to
have reached that giddy height, only to
feel now more keenly, all that had been
within her grasp. Where shall we look for
another instance that the future had prom-
sed so much? Now all this was in the
past.
(Continued.)


THE Young Woman’s Union of Phila-
delphia, composed of young Jewish women,
maintain a household school, kindergarten,
day nursery, shelter and library for Jewish
emigrants.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
THE OLD SONGS.

TO MRS. M. R. HUBBARD.
	[In reply to the question “Do you sing those
sweet old songs now you sung in days “Lang
Syne?”]
	Nay, I canna’ sing the old songs,
		You loved so well to hear;
	Sung oft in happy days now gone,
		When love and life were dear.
	Those charming days of “Auld Lang Syne.”
		Woven with sunshine round,—
	Adown the corridor’s of time,
		Now but in fancy found.

	Nay, I canna’ sing the old songs,
		There comes a rush of tears,
	And my voice fails to reach the notes,
		Soar’d o’er in bygone years. 
	I may not touch a broken lute,
		Nor strike a jangled string,
	Nor strive with tones forever mute,
		Those dear old songs to sing, 
	My harp is on the willows hung,
		Its strains of music o’er,
	Those dear old songs remain unsung,
		That oft thrilled hearts of yore.
	“Sweet highland Mary,”—“Bonnie doon,”—
		“Ben Bolt’’—and Nelly Bly,”—.
	“Raking the hay in merrie June,’’—
	And “Cornin’ thro’ the rye.’’—
	“O there’s ne’er made sic’ anither,”—
		“Annie Laurie,”—“ Ivy green,”—
	“Sweet Home” “The last rose of summer—”
		“Bonnie blue-eyed Kathleen,”—
	“Kate Mavourneen,”—“Rory o’Moore,”—
		“Jessie flower o’ Dumblane,”—
	“Young Mary across the moor,”—
		“When shall we meet again,”
	“Old oaken bucket,”—“Lochinvar,”—
		“Bide ye darlent, wi' me,”—
	“Pledged to union in peace or war,”—
		“Land of the brave and free,”—
	*“Now launch the boat upon the wave,”—
		“Do they miss me at home?”—
	“Here’s health bonnie Scotland to thee,”—
		“Westward our footsteps roam.”

	These are some of the old songs,
		Twined in a wreath for you;
	Souviner of days “Lang Syne,”
		With life’s bright roseate hue.

	They cheer my heart like summer rain,
		As I their names recall,
	I seem to hear each echoed strain,
		Now blending with them all.
							L. M. HEWLINGS
*Greek Emigrants Song.


[Column 1]
HAWAII.

		“ON the heaving of the ocean
		Like a loving mother’s breast,
	Lie the islands of Hawaii
		As an infant in its rest. 
	Sleep sweetly Hawaii
			The murmur of waves
		Is echo of music from coral formed caves.”
	Twenty years ago Hawaii was a little
land of mystery. The means of visiting it
were scanty, while the volcano and inter-
island trips were difficult and somewhat
dangerous. Mark Twain’s “Roughing
it” did much to awaken American enthus-
iasm, toward seeing and claiming the de-
lights of that “pretty little string of
pearls,” as Joaquin Miller calls them.
	“A string of rare and beautiful pearls,
in the sapphire center of the great American
sea. Some day we shall gather up this

[Column 2]
precious string of pearls and throw it mer-
rily about the neck of the beautiful big wo-
man, who has her handsome head on the
outside of the big American dollar, and then
they will be called the beautiful American
islands.”
	Until 1883 there was no regular round
trip steamer service, but since then the
semi-monthly steamers have carried a
steady growth of tourist trade until in 1889
and 1890 over one hundred first class pas-
sengers passed over the route each month.
	“There is but one Hawaii,” and but
one ocean whose smooth Pacific waters are
suggestive of Aegean beauty. Isles and
ocean are a two-fold enticement to tourist
and health seeker. Twenty years ago the
trip was accompanied by few of the advan-
tages, which are the outcome of social
growth and adjustment; but the discom-
forts that attended the necessarily long,
rocking voyage at that time, were quickly
compensated for, by the novel experiences
found in contact with this new and inter-
esting people, and the bewildering delights
of this peep into nature’s own garden.
Homes so beautiful, cosying and nestling
amidst such a variety of tropical growth
and bloom, bewildering and delighting with
the extravagance of color and odor. Nuu-
ani Avenue, the main street of Hono-
lulu threads up a gentle incline to
the sublime glory of the “Pali,” that
wonderful gorge in the backbone of Oahu.
Two thousand feet below the waters throb
and surge on the bosom of those fair
Aleutian Isles, from its precipitous verge
amidst its cloud-draped peaks the view is
impressive and inspiring, and away down
there where the tide is flowing and ebbing
is love and lovers, is joy and sorrow, and
life and death. Afar off is the gracefully
curved coast line where the differing green
of land and ocean meet and blend; there is
the shimmer and sheen of hills and valleys
in their luxuriant fern clad beauty, and the
entire romantic panoramic landscape spread-
ing its mantle far, far out until the round-
ing line of the Isle on the opposite side
loses itself in the gray sand and mist of
beach and sky. Up this lovely incline to
the “Pali,” or on the white beach whose
sands are packed and hardened by the lap-
ping waves the native equestrians are
at their best. The natives all ride well and
the side saddle is an object of contempt.
Astride their fleet-footed ponies, bare feet
in the stirrups and gay streamers floating
on either side, head and neck bedecked
with brilliant flowers, the native woman is
attractive, picturesque and daring. This
primitive and conspicuous costume has been
superseded to a great extent by the tasteful
short skirt, bloomer and gaiter, and on the
heel of the latter is sometimes seen the
pretty but cruel little spur flashing in the
sunlight.
	They are usually happy and hospitable,
with native cordiality sharing with their
visitor their calabash of “Poi.” To one
uninitiated the question will probably arise
whether to slight the hospitality of host or
hostess and refuse this peculiar “staff of
life,” or partake thereof in defiance of in-
clination and appetite and thereby win their
admiration and regard. The taro from
which the poi is made is a vegetable very
like the Indian turnip. It is cultivated in
“lois” (patches of standing water) and
cooked by steam process in underground
ovens or holes, lined with hot stones
After several hours steaming it is removed,
stripped of its rough skin, thrown into a

[Column 3]
large trough and pounded, kneaded and
pounded again to a spongy, doughy mass, then
set aside in calabashes to ferment for pala-
table eating with any of the many varieties
of delicious fish with which they may easily
supply their simple larders. In swimming,
diving and surf riding they seem to merely
play with the waves. Babes but a few
months old are taken upon their mother’s
shoulders and taught to love the water and
as they grow stronger, to ride upon the
waves on the daring surf board. While
American thoughts and customs are no
longer exotic yet the past with its myths
and legends, its customs and ceremonies,
while not paramount influences—still they
are dear to every Hawaiian heart.
	The gentle climate lends an influence to
good nature with a tendency to indolence
and deterioration.
	They are excessively fond of flowers and
music. Often memory recalls the balmy
moonlit evenings, the groups of dark-eyed,
dusky-skinned boys and girls decorated
with garlands of fragrant flowers, their
dreamy-toned voices rising in melody,
mingling with the mystical song of the
waves, and too, keeping time and tune
with their graceful movements in the
voluptuous Hula dance. Midst such
scenes we may so easily idealize them with
their dark beauty and languorous grace,
beneath tropical stars and night blooming
Cereus. Their feasts given in honor of
weddings, births, arrivals and departures,
are great occasions. The bride usually
dressed in white “holoku,” (mother hub-
bard) gaily decorated with blossoms of
brightest hues, sits on a fern carpeted floor,
and partakes of the roasted pig and poi
with the same eager appetite evinced by
her guests seated like Turks around her.
Upon occasions of death too a feast is sup-
plied and for days is heard rising over the
hills and floating on the ocean-blown winds
the loud, wailing “uwe” of the mourners
weird and uncanny in effect.
	Hawaii, “fair daughter of the ocean,”
is a world of strange pleasures and experi-
ences.  The beauties of cliff and waterfall,
the weird ruggedness of crater and coral
reef, the existence of human nature in its
aborginal simplicity, its generosity, ignor-
ance and innate love of beauty, will well
reward time and study.
	Her industries, commercial develop-
ments and political status, are generally
known, so much has been written thereon.
Of the details of their humble lives, their
habits, superstitions and language, so much
of interest can always be told.
	Heart and memory will forever hold,
tender, loving and grateful thoughts for the
dark friends of twenty years ago among
whom were spent four years of teaching
and being taught many of life’s serious
lessons.
			M. A. LAMBERT.
	Written for the U. W. P. C.


MISS GRACE PATTON, State Superinten-
dent of Public Schools for Colorado, is a
member of the Faculty of the State Agri-
cultural School at Ft. Collins. Her politi-
cal hobby is proportional representation.

	A BILL to licence the social evil is pend
ing in Oregon. Oregon women are send-
ing strong protests to the Legislature.
These attempts will continue to be made
from time to time, until women have a
vote.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	- 	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build- 
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
ccond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1897.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL CONFERENCE

	THE annual Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held
in the Tabernacle in this city, commencing
Sunday, April 4th at 10 a. m. and closing
Tuesday, April 6th. President George Q.
Cannon presiding the first two days, Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff not being able to
attend the services until the third day.
The people were very desirous of seeing
President Woodruff in his place on the
stand and of hearing his voice in the Con-
ference, and doubtless great faith was ex-
ercised in his behalf and on Tuesday morn-
ing, April 6th when the President of the
Church appeared the assembly rose enmasse
and saluted him silently with the waving
of handkerchiefs. A great wave of emo-
tion seemed to pervade the house. The
President responded to the salutation with,
“God bless you all;” and afterwards when
he arose to speak an intense sense of satis-
faction shone from the countenances of the
multitude.
	President Woodruff was the first speaker
His remarks were as follows:
	"I want to say to my brethren and sis-
ters and friends that through your prayers
and faith I am here this morning. I have
been considerably under the weather, as
the saying is, for a little time past, but I
am glad to meet with you and feel to say a
few words to you this morning. I know it
would not be wisdom for me to occupy a
great deal of time or say a great deal.
First, I will say I have followed the re-
ports and sayings of the Apostles and
Elders from the commencement of the Con-
ference until this morning; what I have
not read myself has been read to me, and it
has been a great deal of consolation to me
I want to say to the Latter-day Saints the
God of heaven is at work carrying out His
purposes in fulfillment of revelation and
prophecy and inspiration, which He has
given through His Prophets and Apostles
and Patriarchs from the commencement of
the work until this hour. And the Lord
is not going to fail on His part in any of
these things. It is for us as a people to do
our duty, to labor for ourselves and for our
fellowmen; to occupy the time that we
have here, to the best advantage we can, in
trying to honor the Priesthood and people,
to build up the kingdom of God, to set a
good example, and to establish righteous-
ness. And I want to say to the young
men and maidens, my young brethren and
sisters, who may be present here this morn-

[Column 2]
ing, I want you to make your aim high
and realize that you have your generation,
that you have your times granted in con-
nection with your fathers and mothers in
the building up of the kingdom of God.
Do not spend your time in the follies and
frivolities of this world, but try to improve
your time. You occupy one of the most
important dispensations and generations
God has ever given to men, and I have a
great interest for the rising generation. I
know for myself and not for another, that
the Lord has raised up our children, our
sons and daughters, to stand in the foot-
steps of their fathers in the winding-up
scene of the great work of the Zion of our
God. I realize that they do not compre-
hend, in fact there are very few who com-
prehend today the position we occupy, and
the responsibility we are under to God
and the Holy Priesthood, who have raised
us up and placed us here in the midst of a
generation of men and women, children of
men, upon whose heads are going to rest
great responsibilities, in the great events
which are to follow each other in quick
succession in the day in which we live.
	As far as I am concerned, I do not know,
it has never been revealed to me, why my
life has been preserved, while the Lord has
taken away Prophets and Apostles and
other men of God, who have spent three or
four, ten or twelve, fourteen or fifteen
years in the capacity of the building up of
the kingdom of God. Our Savior himself
was only three years and a half in passing
through his experiences of teaching the
people, the organization of the kingdom of
God, the choosing of the Twelve Apostles,
His crucifixion, His death and His resur-
rection. The Prophet Joseph spent about
fourteen years translating the Book of Mor-
mon, the history of the Jews, the House of
Israel on this continent, and the dealings of
God with that people. He performed that
work and brought forth the book of Doc-
trine and Covenants, a code of revelations
as great in language and principles, and in
the account of as great and important events
as have ever occurred on the earth. He
performed all this work in about fourteen
years and a half. My brethren, the Apos-
tles, two or three quorums, have passed
away since my ordination nearly all but
myself up to a certain peroid, have passed.
I am not speaking these things boastfully,
but I am here, and it is my duty while I
remain here, to try to say something that
will be of interest to the Latter-day Saints.
I am interested in your welfare, in the wel-
fare of Zion. It is the Zion of God, planted
here by the hand of God, and the Lord has
guided and directed it, and will continue to
do so.
	You have Apostles with you, you have
High Priests and Seventies, and the other
bodies of Priesthood, and they have great
responsibility resting upon them, in the
capacity in which they labor. I have a
great, desire, what time I do live, to see the
people progress, to become united, to com-
prehend and to understand the spirit and
power of God and their calling; you should
do this, and you have got to do something
of this kind, in order to carry out the pur-
poses of the Lord You stand here in the
mountains of Israel, raised up by the Lord.
You have done a great work here, and
there is a great deal more to do. You are
redeeming the dead and the living, and
sending abroad thousands of the Elders to
warn the nations of the earth of those events

[Column 3]
which are to come upon them and upon us.
Therefore the Elders should try to be faith-
ful, and we should watch over our sons and
daughters, give them good advice, and set
them a good example that we may have no
regrets of their falling into principles and
practices which are not right and righteous
before God, on account of our example.
	I say, God bless you; labor for the Holy
Spirit, labor for light and truth, for revela-
tion and inspiration, learn the mind and
will of God concerning yourselves and the
truth of the work of God on the earth.
Keep your eyes open to see, your ears to
hear, and your hearts to understand the
truth, and that you may see the hand of
God visible throughout the world, which
will be more and more visible from this
time to the winding-up scene. God bless
you. Amen.
	Other remarks were by Apostle Merrill,
and President Joseph F. Smith and Apos-
tle Lund who occupied the remainder of
the morning service. In the afternoon re-
ports were read by President Joseph F.
Smith from the Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I. A., and Primary Association. Members
of the Brigham Young Academy Board
were sustained by unanimous vote of the
Conference.
	President Smith then presented the Gen-
eral authorities who were all unanimously
sustained. The meeting was then ad-
dressed by Elder B. H. Roberts, who spoke
of his recent mission to the large cities in
the United States, and was followed by
Elder Samuel W. Richards, late President
of the Eastern States Mission.
	President George Q. Cannon then ad-
dressed the Conference, mentioning the
Brigham Young statue, and that it was de-
sirable that it should be completed as far as
practicable by the time of the semi-centen-
nial Pioneer Jubilee. Much of his sermon
was upon the delusive influences that were
used speciously to draw away the unwary
and deceive the Saints; warned the people
against these false doctrines and urged
them to be diligent and faithful that they
might not be led into error and darkness.
	President Woodruff spoke briefly on the
subject treated by President Cannon, re-
garding seducing spirits and delusive doc-
trines and characterized them as false, de-
ceptive and of a nature to lead those who
imbibed them to destruction.
	The choir sang the anthem “Glory be to
the Lord, our Deliverer.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction by
Patriarch John Smith.


REMINISCENCES OF PIONEER DAYS.
	THE effort being put forth by the semi-
centennial commission is calling in from all
quarters reminiscences of those early days,
which were so significant of the future;
and yet those who participated therein
could not foresee what has since been un-
folded to their view in the events that have
transpired.
	Those of us who were in Winter Quarters
at the time of the departure of the pioneer
company, and were cognizant of some of
the previous arrangements, only recall
those things that were of general interest
and perhaps incidents relating to their
own immediate families and their friends.
All of us are likely to remember the anx- 
iety that prevaded the entire settlement
when the decision was made public,
though it was very well understood that at


[Column 1]
the opening of Spring a company would
leave for the mountains etc.
	On Sunday, March 28, at the public
stand at Winter Quarters the pioneer
subject was treated upon in discourses by
Heber C. Kimball, Brigham Young, Orson
Pratt and Ezra T. Benson and the people
knew then that in a very few days the com-
pany would be moving on. During the
entire week following, the Apostles, Bishop
Whitney and some leading men were in
council day and night, and on Sunday,
April 4th, Heber C. Kimball preached
an excellent discourse on union as being
power, and that without it the people could
not obtain blessings, nor the spirit of God,
nor faith, nor accomplish the purposes of
God.
	On the same day, as recorded in the
journal of the writer, Bishop Whitney
blessed his two sons, Horace and Orson,
who had been called to go as pioneers.
They were both young men, Horace twenty-
three and Orson only seventeen the January
before. The following day, Monday,
April 5th, it rained and yet at our house
we were especially busy making every pre-
paration for the departure of the young men,
packing the wagon in which they were to
go “over the mountains” as we termed it,
cooking food for the first few days, etc.
“Mother Whitney” though full of faith
and desirous her sons should go, yet felt most
keenly the great risk, and her prayers were
constantly if silently offered for their pro-
tection.
	Conference April 6, (Tuesday) the 17th
year of the Church there was a large atten-
dance at the stand. Brigham Young preach-
ed a wonderful sermon. Word was given
out that the pioneers would start the next
morning, all things were prepared, Brother
Brigham said he wanted to get away where
he could rest his mind; he looked very pale
and worn. Some of the teams pulled out
that day. Thursday, April 8, our teams
were sent down into the country to buy
corn, and Brother Edwin D. Woolley start-
ed for St. Louis. Father Lott, as we called
him came to our house and blessed Horace
and Orson previous to their departure, and
as he gave them similar blessings to their
father, it increased their faith and was a
comfort to Mother Whitney and to Helen,
(Horace’s young wife.) Heber C. Kim-
ball and the Whitney boys and others left;
Bishop Whitney went out with them
to the camp but they came back that
night on horseback, leaving the wagons.
The same day Parley P. Pratt came home
on horseback; he had separated from the
company and hurried on.
	Brother Pratt brought news of Captain
Dan Jones who had formerly been in
Nauvoo, Captain of the Iowa, but had re-
turned to Wales and had wonderful success
in converting the Welsh people. Brother
Brigham left again that day and went
away singing,
“I love the way to Zion’s hill.”
	Bishop Whitney went out too, the same
day. The following day, Sunday, April
11, Parley P. Pratt preached at the stand.
	Monday, April 12, opened school in a
log room belonging to Bishop Whitney,
across the way from our house, had eleven
scholars the first day but soon after had
many more, (had a Sunday school in con-
nection with it.) Among the twenty-five
or thirty boys taught in that log house
were some who have since filled very im-

[Column 2]
portant positions. That afternoon the lead-
ing brethren returned from the pioneer
camp on the Horn river. Tuesday, April
13, the brethren were busy all day settling
some business matters. At evening Brother
John Taylor arrived, they held a council
and determined to start Wednesday, April
14, and on that day all was bustle and con-
fusion; the sisters made cakes and wrote
letters aud sent to the boys who were al-
ready in camp. Ellen (Saunders) Kimball
started off with Brother Kimball and Clara
(Decker) Young with Brigham Young,
Brother Wm. Clayton went with only a
few hours notice. Bishop Whitney accom-
panied them again as far as the Horn river.
Brother Jesse C. Little arrived the same
evening and a party was given in the
Council House in honor of his arrival; he
brought with him presents from Col. Kane
for those who had been so kind to the Col-
onel during his sickness among them.
Brother Little and Porter Rockwell went on
to the camp to join Brigham Young and the
pioneers. This really was the final start
and the brethren who returned, came back
with rather sad countenances.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE, RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	THE Relief Society Conference was held
in the Assembly Hall, April 3rd, 1897,
commencing at 2 p. m., Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Opened by singing
“How firm a foundation “etc., Prof. C. J.
Thomas leader and Spencer Clawson Jun.
organist. Prayer was offered by President
Thomas B. Ricks of Bannock Stake, Idaho.
Singing “Now let us rejoice” etc. Roll
call by the Secretary, fifteen presidents of
Stakes present, a few were represented by
Counselors, making nineteen in all.
	President Young welcomed the sisters in
her own motherly fashion and spoke par-
ticularly to those who had come from a dis-
tance to attend Conference. She said in
her remarks we should keep ourselves free
from guile and refrain from speaking
against each other, and should walk in the
straight and narrow way and not be turned
aside by any influences that were mislead-
ing; reminded the sisters of the Prophet’s
words that the sisters little knew the
work that they were laying a founda-
tion for thought, we realized it now more
fully than ever; said in closing, “May
heaven bless us and sustain us, and may
we have the Holy Spirit while we are here
together that we may have a time of re-
joicing and go away feeling refreshed ”
	Minutes of October Conference were
read by the Secretary and approved. Sis-
ter B. W. Smith spoke of the good number
present and was glad to see the sisters, re-
joiced in the Relief Society; referred to the
minutes that had been read, said we have
talked about a house of our own to meet in,
but thought it was not the right time just
now, and we have no land, and so we must
wait till the right time comes. Spoke of
the work for the dead and how much she
enjoyed being engaged in the Temple.
	Sister Jane S. Richards felt we had great
reason to be thankful that we had health
and strength and a desire to come to meet-
ing; who is there that does not feel filled
with joy and energy to do and to help in this
great work; said she heard the Gospel
when seventeen years old, she was admin-
istered to by the Elders and the numbness

[Column 2]
from which she suffered was all taken from
her, she knew then and had known ever
since that the Gospel was true. Referred
to the good effect of a few kind words,
thought we should not talk much of hard
times, and alluded to the circumstances un-
der which the Nauvoo Temple was built,
and said her husband worked on it; the
people did not complain then even when
there was not bread for them, Sister Richards
spoke of her relatives in the East and the
kind feelings they manifested towards her,
and how she felt towards them.
	Sister Ann C. Woodbury, of St. George,
rejoiced in meeting with the sisters; she
had visited a part of the Stake since she
was here in the fall, and she took pains
wherever she went to urge the setting out
of mulberry trees, many sisters were will-
ing to take hold of the work, and hundreds
of children of the Latter-day Saints could
be employed in this industry; recommended
one child with a grown person, said it had
been her feeling ever since she came to the
country that silk culture could be made a
success; believed the Lord would bless us
in this work; thought we should teach our
children to be industrious and to grow up
in faith, to pray and to be prepared to stand
in the front in all good undertakings.
	Sister Zina urged the sisters to take the
mulberry twigs and plant them in by the
ditches, and they would soon grow and the
leaves could easily be gathered without
having to climb trees, and added “when
you do this, think of President Brigham
Young and his counsel in regard to silk.”
	Sister Lydia Rich reported Morgan Stake
in good condition in all respects and bore a
strong testimony to the truth, and spoke
very forcibly of the missionaries abroad in
the earth, and the remarkable work being
accomplished.
	Sister Annie U. Larsen, of Emery Stake,
reported the work of the Society in that
Stake. “Children,” she said, “ are taught
to fear the Lord and to obey the command-
ments, to be honest and to be respectful in
their behavior. We sisters have consulted
together in regard to silk raising; we don’t
believe we will always be able to get our
ribbons from Babylon.” Sister Larsen al-
so bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel.
	President Thomas Ricks, of Bannock,
Stake, said he felt very much out of place
being here to report, but as he had a writ-
ten report given him of the Relief Society
of that Stake, he would read that, which
he proceeded to do and he then told the
sisters how disappointed the sisters were up
there because Sister Young and Sister
Richards did not visit them when they
were in Idaho last year, (they were afraid
of the high water.) He thought the Lord
was pushing His work. “ There are twice
as many Elders in the field now as there
are people in this audience, and they are
seeking out the honest in heart, the work is
onward.”
	President C. O. Card, of Alberta Stake,
spoke of the representative women of the
Church of Jesus Christ that were present,
and said they belong to the Relief Society
and the Y. L. M. I. A. and they enjoy the
gifts of the Gospel. “ We have these in-
stitutions in our Stake and we have a goodly
land in our northern clime, we can raise
wool and flax, but it is not adapted to
everything. President Card spoke of hav-
ing superintended the building of the Logan
Temple and how liberal the sisters had been


in contributing to it, also that in all his
public life the sisters had been a great help
to the brethren in the Church. Reported
four wards in their Stake and said they
draw their support from the elements in-
stead of complaining of hard times. “Lit-
tle things put together make something
gigantic in all;” favored the laying up of
wheat, thought the war clouds several of
them now looked threatening. The same
good spirit is in the sisters meetings; testi-
fied to the spirit of the Conference.
	Bishop Thomas, of Idaho Falls, spoke of
humility, brought up the example of the
Savior when he was at the fire broiling fish
and asked his disciples to come and dine
with him; spoke of the Scripture which
says “He that is least among you shall be
greatest;” also referred to the society of the
Saints and quoted the words of Ruth of old
“Whither thou goest I will go, and where
thou lodgest I will lodge;” felt those were
his sentiments. “God bless you all,
Amen.”
	Sister M. Isabella Horne reported Salt
Lake Stake, spoke of having organized
new branches of the Relief Society this
year at East Jordan, Crescent and in a part
of South Cottonwood; thought the sisters
were doing a good work. “The women
who have labored faithfully and grown
old in the service need some who are young
and vigorous to come forward and help,
the work is an interesting one; said it
would be sixty-one years in July since she
was baptized, and had labored ever since in
the interests of Zion, her desire was to go
on laying up treasures in heaven, by look-
ing after the poor and needy which is pleas-
ing in the sight of the Lord.
	Sister Mary E. Lightner was the next
speaker, she stated that she was baptized
into the Church October 15, 1830, and had
passed through all the persecutions of the
Saints, and for all the adversities she had
experienced she was glad, “for so shall we
be perfected and prepared to enter into His
rest; we are yet to have the law of God
written in our hearts when Joseph turned
the key of knowledge for the sisters in the
Church, it was also for the women of the
world a portion of it, and they have been
awakening ever since.”
	Sister Mary L. Woolf, of Alberta Stake,
Canada, rejoiced to hear what had been
spoken, was glad to see Sister Young the
President of the Relief Society, and to hear
her talk to the sisters; knew many of the
women upon the stand through hearing her
mother speak of them. Sister Woolf said,
“I am living a long way from here but
possibly it seems farther off to you than it
does to me. I am glad we have been call-
ed to this land in the north, there will be a
good chance for our sons to make a start
and understand the Gospel in its true light.
Our children will go on and carry on this
work, it must be so.”
	Sister Susannah Booth, of Box Elder
Stake, was requested by Sister Widerborg,
the President, to report and was willing to
do so, as she could give a good report of
the sisters there, and they were good the
President is careful to attend to the poor
and visit the sick. The speaker said Sister
Widerborg often asked her to go with her to
visit around among the sisters; spoke of
the sickness in their midst, in the first,
second and third wards in Brigham City
they had the diphtheria and had to be quar-
antined; spoke of having been engaged in 
the work of the Relief Society ever since a

[Column 2]
Society had been organized in Brigham
City; made some good and encouraging re-
marks about sericulture and the land own-
ed by the sisters and the number of mul-
berry trees they had on it, said last year
the sisters came from Logan to gather mul-
berry leaves from their trees and take over
there to feed the worms. Sister Booth
spoke of the new Tabernacle built in Brig-
ham City, and how the Relief Society had
helped the brethren in the work of getting
it furnished etc.
	President Young made some closing re-
marks and gave notice of the evening
meeting at 7.30, invited all to attend and
hoped to see the house filled. Singing
Doxology; benediction was offered by
Elder Christian J. Larson.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Madame Mountford delivered her
new lecture “The Life of Jacob” in the
Tabernacle April 8. The rendering of this
subject was exceptionally fine.
	We desire to explain to our subscribers
and patrons that the Book of Poems is nearly
ready, the steel engraving has come, the
covers are finished and the remaining pages
will soon be printed. The delay has been
caused more on account of the revision and
copying of poems written long ago, many
o them scattered here and there that never
had been published, had to be collected and
corrected.
	Mrs. Emma J. McVicker gave a Ken-
sington tea to a party of ladies on Thurs-
day, April 8, in honor of her sister, Mrs.
Morgan, who is here on a visit. The after-
noon was very enjoyably passed in social
conversation, the tea was served in the
daintiest style, and the refreshments were
delicious. Mrs. McVicker is a most genial
hostess and knows how to bring the right
people together. These social entertain-
ments are certainly very pleasant and it
does seem a renewal of friendship to meet
and “break bread” together, and is re-
freshing to those who amid the hurry and
bustle of a busy life occasionally stop to
greet the friends they love, but seldom
ever see. And so we are particularly grate-
ful to Mrs. McVicker and other ladies who
have remembered us when making up a
social gathering.


EIGHTY YEARS.

	 SISTER KATHARINE K. PALMER, Presi-
dent of the Eighth ward Relief Society,
was pleasantly surprised on April 6th, by
the officers and teachers of that Society and
three daughters and a daughter-in-law of
Sister Palmer calling on her at the close of
the afternoon session of Conference, it
being her eightieth birthday. After par-
taking of supper the evening was spent in
reciting, singing and pleasant converse.
	Sister Palmer has a twin sister who is
still living, and who was also surprised on
that day at her residence in New Jersey by
many relatives who reside in the Eastern
states.
E.E.P. F.


[Column 1]
A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

	ELIZA ANN CARTER was the daughter
of John Carter and Hannah Libby. She

[Column 2]
was born in the town of Newry, Oxford
Co., State of Maine, on the 28th of Septem-
ber in the year 1818. Her parents belonged
to the Methodist creed in which church she
was an active member, but her mind was
much troubled about what would become
of her hereafter. In the year 1834 Daniel
Bean and John T. Boynton, Elders of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
were preaching in the town of Newry and
called at the house of her father. At that
time her mother lay very sick, having been
given up by the Doctors. These Elders
told her of the new Gospel they were
preaching and said if she had faith they
would lay hands on her and she would be
healed. She told them she knew nothing
of their doctrine but if it were true, she
knew she would be healed; accordingly
they laid hands on her and commanded her
in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to be
made whole. She immediately arose and
called for her clothes and said, “I must go
to the water;” at the same time some of
her children were praising and others con-
demning, and her husband, who never
embraced the Gospel, said, “ Well that
beats Doctor bills.” She walked one half
mile to the Bear river where she was bap-
tized and confirmed, and at which place a
large branch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints was raised up.
	Her daughter Eliza Ann at once received
the Gospel and was baptized, and in the
year 1836 in company with her brother
John Carter, Mary Ann Stearns and Phebe
Carter started for Kirtland, Ohio, arriving
August 10th the same year. She was in-
vited into the family of Hyrum Smith
where she labored as an assistant in house-
work. There she became acquainted with
the whole Smith family. She was invited
into the choir by William Cahoon and there
became intimately acquainted with Emma
Smith and Zina Huntington (now Young).
I have quite a portion of history written by
her own hand, at the age of seventy-four.
	“I had my patriarchal blessing under
the hands of Father Joseph Smith, the
patriarch then, in the Kirtland Temple. I
and others were on the top of the Temple
and sung “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”
	That was when I was eighteen years old.
I was in Kirtland when the Temple was
dedicated and when the stars fell from heav-
en and saw them when they fell.
	I ate and drank with the Prophet Joseph
and Emma Smith at the wedding of Elder
Goodson at Parley P. Pratt’s house.
	When I was living at Hyrum Smith’s
I thought that he was the best man I ever
saw, he was so kind to his family and he
prayed in his family three times a day.
	I married James C. Snow in 1838 and
started with William Carter, my brother
and his family for Far West, Missouri the
same year. It was cold weather and we
suffered much with the cold, but we travel-
ed until we came to Terre Haute, Indiana,
and one of our oxen died, leaving us with
one ox, so we were obliged to stop. We
had no money, no house to go in and we
got the privilege of going into a horse stable
and I cleaned it out and was glad to get in-
to a place out of the storms. After stop-
ping in Indiana a few weeks Hyrum
Smith’s company came along, and he being
acquainted with me said to me, 'If you
will ride in my baggage wagon I will take
you along and you can drive the team and


[Column 1]
the men can walk.’ I said I will do so.
We traveled until we came to Jacksonville,
Illinois; there one of Hyrum Smith’s horses
died and he had to leave us. There was a
branch of the Church near by but he did not
leave us penniless amongst strangers, with-
out home or friends but he called for the
President of the branch and told him to let
Brother Snow preside over the branch as a
missionary and to feed and clothe us until
the Kirtland Camp company came along in
the fall, and he did so. The President’s
name was Merrick, the brother that was
killed at the Haun’s Mill Massacre in Mis-
souri. While we were there in the branch
I looked out, and behold! there came my
brother William with the one ox that we
left behind. He had made a harness and
tackled him up and the one ox carried his
wife and three children to Missouri, and
when I saw him I rejoiced to see him have
so much faith, but the Gentiles made all
manner of fun of him. They said ‘There
goes a d—d Mormon with one ox,’ but he got
there just the same; and Father Joseph
Smith said it should be in the annals of his
history. After that the Kirtland camp
came along and we went to Missouri with
them. We went into an old log house
that we could poke a cat out between the
logs and there my first child was born; it
was the 30th day of October in the year
1838. Sarah Jane who became the wife of
Marshall Kindsman and afterwards wife of
President Joseph Young. It was cold and
snowed every day and the mob came into
Far West the very day of her birth, and we
were much excited. I could not keep the
midwife long enough to dress my child,
Sister Diantha Billings was her name, well
it known among our people. The mob was
blowing horns and firing guns all night
long. We were without bread or anything
to make bread of, but by the help of the
Lord we were preserved by the brethren
giving up their arms and promising to
leave Far West. We left in the month of
February the following year. There were
three families to one wagon and one span
of old horses, we took turns in walking.
There was Brother Winslow Farr and wife,
Gardener Snow and wife and James Snow
and wife. We traveled all day and at
night lay down at a camp fire as we had no
tent. We arrived in Illinois in 1839 and in
1845 I had my house burned down by a
wicked mob painted black, and I was forced
to leave and go to Nauvoo. Left Nauvoo
in 1846. Stayed at Council Bluffs until
1851 and arrived at Provo in 1852.”
	I will here add that when the call was
made for the Battalion her brother, Richard
Carter (who died in the Battalion) was one
of the volunteers. His wife died shortly
after, leaving three children whom Sister
Snow brought to the valley. She resided
in Provo from the time of her arrival here
and was ever energetic in the cause in
which she engaged. She always paid her
tithes and offerings and even within a few
days of her death donated to the Temple
Library. She departed this life March 9,
1897.
	She was a woman of much faith both for
herself and others; many times she was
healed by the power of faith and once when
she had been given up by the best physi-
cians and it had even been reported that
she was dead, she was healed.
	She was the mother of nine children and
at the time of her death had fifty-five grand-
children and fifty-one great grandchildren.

[Column 2]
She was always a faithful counselor to her
children and friends. Ever exhorting them
to faithfulness.
	Much more might be added to this his-
tory but as I did not intend a lengthy
sketch, will let this suffice.
				LUCINDA SNOW.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	AT its last regular meeting March 31,
the U. W. P. C. was entertained at the
home of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. The evening
was an enjoyable one, Miss A. M. Beecher
being the guest of the club, and a large
gathering of friends and club members
being present to greet her.
	President Fox called the meeting to
order, prayer was offered and the roll called.
	The first part of the evening was de-
voted to Byron, the members responding
with quotations from Byron and Mrs. Helen
Vilate Kimball presenting a paper on his
life and writings. Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of
Farmington read an orignal poem.
	At the request of the ladies and in reply
to their questions Miss Beecher gave an in-
formal talk on topics of interest to all—
economics, the influence of women in poli-
tics, and the political status of the Eastern
women, all being touched upon.
	Dainty refreshments were served at the
close of the meeting. The next meeting as
usual at the office of the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT, April 30. Each member is expect-
ed to put on her thinking-cap and present
an original sentiment on that occasion.
ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec.

	MRS. HELEN M. GOUGAR was admitted
to practice before the Supreme Court of
Indiana on Feb. 19. She at once made
the oral argument in her test case, wherein
she claims that the present law, properly
intrepreted, is sufficient to permit women
to vote. All the Judges came down from
the bench and congratulated Mrs. Gougar
on the ability of her argument.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Confer-
ence of the Relief Society, held at Moroni,
March 12, 1897, President M. A. P. Hyde
presiding. Singing “We thank Thee O
God for a prophet;” prayer by Andrew L.
Jensen; singing “Guide us O Thou Great
Jehovah;” reading and adoption of the
previous minutes; the annual reports were
read by the secretary.
	President M. A. P. Hyde felt grateful to
meet with her sisters of Sanpete again.
Gave a short report of the R. S. Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake; spoke of corrup-
tion, the destroyer is going forth to destroy,
and those who are weak be approaches in
such a manner that it would throw them
off their guard. Prayed the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Verbal reports were given from Chester,
Ephraim North and South wards, Mt.
Pleasant. Written reports were read from
Manti North and South wards, Moroni and
Sterling.
	Counselor Alvira Cox gave instructions
concerning reports; said it was very im-
portant to have them correct as we are
making history. Singing “Lord dismiss
us with Thy blessing.” Benediction
Brother James Harvey.

[Column 2]
	AFTERNOON SESSION: After the usual
opening exercises the General and Stake
officers were unanimously sustained. Presi-
dent M. A. Hyde made remarks upon re-
ceiving members not of our faith, those
who are not for us are against us. Gave
details of a blessing given her by the
Patriarch Hyrum Smith. “We need to
prepare ourselves for greater times.”
Spoke of forewarnings; said we do not
know what a day may bring forth, but let
us listen to the promptings of the Spirit and
live near to the Lord.
	Sister Hannah Dorius of Ephraim said,
“let us take care of ourselves and children,
always heeding the wise counsel given us.
Our property is loaned us to help build up 
the kingdom and for the purpose of serving
God, therefore we should not forget and
worship that more than God.”
	Counselor Abigail Shoemaker thought
the sisters needed great praise for their
good works. Said the time to give our
wheat is immediately after threshing; we
are always blessed when we give our mites;
hoped we might be faithful and humble.
	Christina Thompson said to live so near
the House of God and enjoy so many
blessings was more than she had ever anti-
cipated. Sister Harvey said the sisters will
lose nothing by attending the meetings,
but will be able to accomplish much more
and will have more of the spirit which
every mother needs in order to teach the
children to pray and to be obedient.
	Benedicta Hansen felt when she em-
braced the Gospel that she must have been
acquainted with the principles always.
Spoke of the Primary work. “Mothers do
not neglect the children; they are our
Father’s children. Try to explain those
beautiful principles to them and have them
instilled in their minds.”
	Esther Anderson expressed her desire to
press forward, and bore her testimony.
Counselor Alvira Cox felt we were especial-
ly blessed with the presence of President
Hyde. Thought we lived in an important
time; Satan is ever striving to see whom
he can catch. “There has been a tendancy
to sit in judgment of the work of the lead-
ing brethren; if we once allow ourselves to
doubt we will find ourselves in the dark-
ness. There is a great anxiety in the duty
of parents to children; let us give them
innocent amusement and try and make
home pleasant. Follow them up with our
prayers, as there is so much of Babylon
right amongst us.” Encouraged the indus-
try of silk culture.
	Brother James Harvey said “We are the
salt of the earth and do not let us lose our
savor.” Sisters Maria Willardson, and
Maria Dorius made a few remarks.
	President M. A. Hyde spoke of the
signs of the times and among them must
be the great call for missionaries; desired
the mothers and sisters to aid and encourage
the young men when called. “Mothers
guard your daughters; they are pure and
choice. Have them trained and accom-
plished in housework first and foremost, as
a good housewife is much towards making
home happy.” Gave the sisters a mother’s
blessing.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Praise to the man.” Benedic-
tion by James Jensen.
		MARIA WILLARDSON, Secy’.
WAYNE STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Wayne Stake held


[Column 1]
Conference Feb. 26, 1897, at the Fremont
Relief Society hall, President Jane S. Cole-
man presiding. Choir sang “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers;” prayer was
offered by Patriarch E. N. Blackburn;
singing “All hail the glorious day;” min-
utes of previous Conference read and ap-
proved. 
	President Jane S. Coleman said she was
pleased to again meet in Conference, that it
was through faith and prayer she had been
able to attend, having had sickness in the
family; was grateful to have so many of the
brethren meet with us, said the aims and
desires of the Relief Society are to be one
with the Priesthood and to ever use a good
influence in the proper direction; prayed
the Spirit of God would rest on the speak-
ers that such instructions might be given
as were necessary for the general good and
advancement of Relief Society labors.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said “We are of
one faith and one gospel, the same that our
Savior taught. We should teach our child-
ren it is the true faith and guard them from
the wiles of Satan, who is on the watch to
turn them aside from the straight path.”
Spoke upon faith and the necesity of teach-
ing that principle to our children.
	President Louisa Taylor of the Fremont
Relief Society gave a good report; they own
a good house, well seated and carpeted,
their lot fenced and a granary with over
300 bushels of wheat.
	Sister Louisa Brown of Loa, felt happy
to meet with her sisters; came to be
strengthened in her faith; was thankful
for the organization of the Relief Society;
spoke of the temptations that beset the
youth. We are not all keeping the Word of
Wisdom, if we did we would enjoy greater
faith; spoke of the teachings of King Ben-
jamin to the Nephites, which if practiced
by us would result in great good upon our
heads.
	President Margaret J. Taylor reported
the Loa Relief Society in good condition,
said the sisters in turn visit the Y. L. M.
I. A. and Primary meetings, had also sub-
scribed for the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and
sent it to the sisters in England.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was truly thank-
ful for the blessings and gifts of the Gospel,
for the healing of the sick and the privilege
of prayer said the evil one is on the alert,
we should teach our children the plan of
salvation prayed the Lord to bless and
comfort our hearts.
	The Lyman Relief Society was reported
by President Helen Maxfield as doing
well and they were greatly blessed in their
labors.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
Counselor Louisa Bunkerhoff, they were in
good condition; are now directing their
labors to build a Relief Society hall. Teas-
dale was also reported by Sister Coleman
as doing well.
	Patriarch F. W. Young said he realized
the sisters had influence and could exercise
it for good; some people in the world
thought the Mormon women were ignor-
ant creatures; showed the falsity of this
statement. The women go hand in hand
with their husbands; spoke of training
children, the evil of selling intoxicants in
our settlements, mothers should plead with
their sons not to touch them nor to use pro-
fane language. We should encourage re-
ligious classes; asked God to bless the Re-
lief Society.
	The yearly financial and statistical report

[Column 2]
was read. Singing “O say what is truth;”
benediction by Elder J. A. Taylor.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “Do
what is right;” prayer by Elder W. A.
Taylor; singing “Go ye messengers of
glory.”
	Sister Margaret Pace bore her testimony
and felt interested in Relief Society work,
was very desirous to see the youth cho[---]
the path of virtue and chastity. Sister
Sarah J. Morrell spoke well upon timely
subjects. Sister Mary Ellett spoke of her
love for the Gospel, and that temptations
should be kept from the youth. Sister
Sarah A. Robinson made good remarks;
hoped the counsels and instructions given
would be carried into practice.
	Stake President Willis E. Robeson wish-
ed an interest in the prayers of those pres-
ent while speaking; exhorted all to dot
what is right, as was sung in the firs
hymn; spoke of the great scope of woman’s
work, that their labors were just as exten-
sive as the brethren. The sisters are im-
portant factors in rectifying evil of every
kind; the influence of the mother, sister
and wife are very important in our midst;
referred to the remarks of President Cannon
about famine, was pleased to note the suc-
cess of the sisters in storing grain, gave
much credit to the sisters in their labors of
love.
	Patriarch E. W. Blackburn said he had
enjoyed the Conference very much. The
Prophet Joseph had organized the Relief
Society over fifty years ago; spoke of the
great good the sisters had accomplished;
spoke upon chastity, that mothers should
take their sons in kindness and exhort them
o keep themselves pure and guard the vir-
ue of their young sisters; spoke of how
<t>mproperly dancing is being conducted any
person that will oppose the authority of
God’s servants are apostates at heart. The
sin of profanity was also spoken of and the
sisters were urged to unite and use their
influence against every evil practice. He
sustained the Relief Society, felt honored to
meet with them and hear the word of God
and felt to bless them in His name.
	The officers of the Central Board and the
Stake officers were sustained.
	President J. S. Coleman gave some
general instructions pertaining to the Re-
lief Society work to aid the local Presidents
in their labors, that all may work in har-
mony and accomplish the best results
whether in spiritual or practical matters;
wished the sisters to subscribe for the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks could not at-
tend Conference, her home being in the
eastern part of the Stake and the roads
very bad for traveling	Just before Con-
ference she visited the eastern part, namely
Aldrich, Caneville, Giles, Clifton, and re-
ported all in good condition. Conference
adjourned for six mouths. Choir sang;
benediction by Brother George Forsyth.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MRS. AMALIE B. POST, of Cheyenne,
Wyoming, has recently died. Mrs. Post
was vice-president of the National Wo-
man Suffrage Association for Wyoming for
many years, and as such had the honor to
sit beside the Governor of Wyoming and
participate in the ceremonies which cele-
brated its admission as a State.


NOTICE!
TO ALL WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
SILK CULTURE
IN THE STATE OF UTAH.
	The Utah Silk Commission desires
all who wish to engage in this industry,
this year, to send at once their name and
full address for pamphlet of instructions,
also a statement of your facilities for
raising cocoons and the number of silk
worm eggs you desire. Address all com-
munications to Margaret A. Caine, Secre-
tary Utah Silk Commission, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	All county papers please copy.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL BEGIN HER
Class: in: Obstetrics
	On Monday April 12th 1897 with improved
facilities for instruction in this important study.
Special terms are given to societies sending
students. For further particulars communicate
with
			ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D.
		75 Center St Salt Lake City Utah.
[Picture of shield with writing]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
[Text wrapped around bottom of shield]
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE

[Text to the right of shield]
The People's Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City			7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,’’ for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver							7:00 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City				3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
			S. H. H. CLARK,
			OLIVER W. MINK,
			E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
			JOHN W. DOANE,
			FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
							Receivers.
		E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
		E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
			H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 


VOL. 25. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1897 No. 21


CONTENTS:

	Egypt. Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina
H. Bull Sec. Conference Of W. H. P. Society—
Julia S. Woolley, Sec. The Denver Victory.
Letter From Bunkerville—H. M. Earl. Mary
Stuart—Louide. The Jubilee Prize Commission.

	POETRY:—Beautiful Sp ing—L. M. H. Build
Well—Adelaide Comstock.

	EDITORIAL:—Party In The Lion House. The
Old Journey. Pamphlet on Sericulture. Wed-
ding Bells. A Friend Of Long Ago. Editorial
Notes. General Relief Society Conference.


BEAUTIFUL SPRING.

BEAUTIFUL Spring is now weaving,
    Fresh garlands of budding flowers,
And gay birds are giving concerts,
    In their newly-robed green bowers.
Her smile has banished cold winter,
    Unvailed the long slumbering earth,
Twined wreaths with her fairy fingers,
    From darkness awakened new birth.

Her voice has called into action.
    Mighty forces, work to resume;
That never may pause nor slacken,
    While she’s plying her busy loom.
All things with new life are swelling,
    From high mountains to purling brooks,
The arbutus vines are trailing,
    Their sweet blossoms in shady nooks.
Fountains flash forth—joy-bells ringing!
    Fresh carpets of green and gold spread,—
Life e’en in deserts upspringing,
    Wherever her footsteps have tread.
O, beautiful vernal dawning,
    We now hail thee with glad delight!
And rejoice in thy returning
    Deck’d in beautiful robes of light.
                                             L. M. H.
S. L. C., May 1, 1897.


EGYPT.

READ BEFORE  THE REAPER’S CLUB BY
MISS JULIA A DRUCE.
	Egypt is a country in the northeast of
Africa, extending from the Mediterranean
Sea to the first cataract of the Nile, that of
Assouan,—(the ancient Syene.)—Its
length from this cataract to the northern-
most point of the Delta, is about 500 miles;
and its breadth from the shores of the Red
Sea to the Libyan desert, may be estimated
at 250 miles. This land was inhabited at a
very early period of the world’s existence;
and in ancient times it contained a great
number of cities, and an incredible multi-
tude of people. Egypt may be described
as “the bed of the Nile;” the cultivated
territory only extending to the limits of the
inundation. In the island of Rhoda, situ-
ated on the opposite side of the river from
Cairo, is the Nilometer, a column which in-
dicates the height of the water during an
inundation of the Nile. This pillar is
made of marble and is very slender. The
building here formerly had a dome, bearing

[Column 2]
a C[--]ic inscription dated 847 A. D. At
present this Nilometer consists of a square
well, in which is placed a graduated pillar
of marble. There is another Nilometer at
Elephantine, close to Assouan, which con-
sists of a staircase between two walls, des-
cending to the Nile. One of these walls
has engraved on it a series of lines at proper
intervals, which marked the different eleva-
tions of the river during the time of the
Caesars. This is the well that Strabo
speaks of, and is much older than the
column at Rhoda. The most ancient of
these measures appears to have been erect-
ed at Memphis.
	The climate of Egpyt is not very healthy.
The sun is extremely hot, and rains fall
but seldom. Thunder and lightning are
both unfrequent. At intervals during the
spring, for about fifty days, Egypt is liable
to the terrible wind of the desert, which
from its intense heat and dryness, is almost
unendurable. The irritating effects caused
by innumerable particles of sand, which
accompany this wind, are also very disa-
greeable. Fortunately it seldom continues
more than three days at a time.
	Egypt is separated from Nubia by a low
hilly region, composed of granite rocks.
The same crystalline rocks extend up the
shore of the Red Sea, to near the opening of
the Gulf of Suez. The scenery in this district
is wild and rude. The course of the Nile
is often interrupted by cliffs and broken
masses of granite, forming magnificent
cataracts. The granite region terminates
at Assouan. From the rocks here, were
obtained the materials for the colossal and
monolithic monuments of Egypt. The
valley of Upper Egypt is bounded by two
ranges of hills running northward—the
Arabian on the right, and the Libyan on
the left of the river; both, alike, composed
of cretaceous strata, the predominant rock
being sandstone. This is a durable and
easily worked stone; it was therefore used
extensively in the erection of ancient tem-
ples. The city of Thebes was built of it.
This sandstone extends from the granitic
rocks forming the first cataract at Assouan,
for about 85 miles to Esne, where it is
covered by a limestone strata; and this
continues on both sides of the valley for
about 130 miles, when it is again covered
by a limestone deposit which forms the
other portions, extending northward of
both ranges of hills. The scenery of the
limestone districts is tame and monot-
onous; frequent tablelands occur, on one of
which are built the three pyramids of
Gizeh, the material employed being the
predominant limestone. This land is very
deficient in timber trees; the Pharaohs ob-
tained cedar from Lebanon, and ebony
from Ethiopia. The rocks of Egypt afford-
ed the stones used in its edifices and sculp-
tures,—granite, syenite and basalt from
Assouan,—porphyry from the quarries of
Gebel Doshan, which were opened in the
reign of the Emperor Claudius; sandstone,
limestone etc. Alabaster, which was found
at Tel-el-amarna, has been used from the
earliest periods to the present day. Emer-
alds are produced by the mines of Gebel

[Column 3]
Zabara. Salt, natron, and since 1850, sul-
phur are among the other mineral produc-
tions of Egypt. Natron is a native car-
bonate of soda, and was used by the people
in their embalming process. We know
that Egypt occupied a very early place in
the world’s civilization. Thence Greece
derived her art, literature and science. She
handed them down to imperial Rome,
whose mission it was to diffuse them over
western Europe. The Great Pyramid was
an antiquity in the days when many of the
famous nations of old were in their youth.
The pyramids were rising on the bank of
the Nile at an epoch coeval with that of
Abraham and Isaac. Egypt was a power-
ful and opulent empire in the days of
Joseph; and it was in the Egyptian schools
that Moses received his education.
	One of the most important points in the
history of this land, is the chronological;
involving, as it does, the date of the earli-
est historical epoch of man. In the time of
Ptolemy Philadelphus, during the 3rd cen-
tury B. C., Manetho, high priest of
Heliopolis, drew up at the request of this
king, a history, in which he divided the
space of time from Menes—the first king
of Egypt—up to the reconquest of that
country by Darius II., into thirty dynas-
ties. The work of Manetho has perished,
but the chronological epitomes remain, in
the works of several ancient writers. The
Holy Bible, Herodotus, Diodorus, Josephus,
Eratosthenes and other historians also con-
tain sources of chronological information.
Herodotus saw, and talked with Manetho;
so that probably he obtained many histori-
cal items from him. This Manetho had
been instructed in Grecian learning, which
was a valuable aid to him. Learned writ-
ers have been trying for many years to re-
concile the conflicting statements of vari-
ous ancient historians, in regard to dates.
The national custom in ancient Egypt, was
to reckon any important event from, or in
the reign of that king in whose time it oc-
curred, without using the controlling date
of any cycle. This fact rendered portions
of their early history rather obscure, and
also made it difficult for historians to obtain
perfectly correct information.
	The chronology of Bishop Usher,—which
is from the Hebrew—placed 4004 B. C., as
the date of the Creation, and 2348 B. C.,
for the Deluge; and these dates seem to
have obtained the sanction of theological
writers. The celebrated hieratic papyrus
at Turin, of the age of the 19th dynasty,
which contained a system of chronology
arranged on a principle of cyclic and regnal
years, has unfortunately suffered so much
mutilation, that it is impossible to recon-
struct it satisfactorily. It is therefore bet-
ter to depend upon the account given by
Manetho as to the dynastic succession;—
taking that history as waves of time,—
especially in regard, to the more remote
periods. There is not sufficient monu-
mental or other data, for a sure conclusion
about many of the early rulers. The docu-
ment at Turin, and the list furnished by
Manetho, do not agree as to the number of
kings who ruled in Egypt from the close of


the 6th to the 11th dynasty. It
is therefore supposed that these accounts
represent the succession of rulers in Mem-
phis and Thebes, respectively, during that
period. Mythically, Egypt claims to have
been in existence at a much earlier date
than we have any knowledge of its history.
There were in this land during ancient
times, four principal dynasties; that of
Thebes, Thin, Memphis and Tanis. It was
in the country of Tanis that the Israelites
dwelt. The first period in Egyptian his-
tory begins with the establishment of a
monarchy by Menes, or Misraim, the son of
Cham, or Ham, in the year of the world
1816,—or 2188 B. C.,—and ends with the
destruction of that monarchy by Cambyses,
King of Persia, in the year 525, B. C. The
second period is intermixed with Persian
and Grecian history, and extends to the
death of Alexander the great, which
occured in Babylon, 323 B. C. The third
period is that in which a new monarchy
was formed in Egypt by the Lagida, or
Ptolemies, in 323 B. C, and ended with
the death of Cleopatra, the last queen of
Egypt, which happened in 30 B. C. The
Lagida were descendants of Ptolemy Lagus,
who was supposed to be a natural son of
Philip of Macedon. The Kings of this
line succeeded each other till Cleopatra, a
sister of the last Ptolemy, ascended the
throne when Egypt became a Roman pro-
vince, and continued so until the reign of
Omar, the second Caliph of the successors
of Mahomet, who drove out the Romans,
after it had been in their hands nearly
seven hundred years.
	In 1171 A. D., the Caliph Saladin intro-
duced the Mamelukes into Egypt and
when the power of the Caliphs declined, El
Moez, a slave belonging to that race, set
up the empire of the Mamelukes about
1250, A. D. At the commencement of the
16th century,about 1517 A.D.,Selim,a Turk-
ish emperor, conquered Egypt and for many
years the country was distracted by civil
wars. The French, under Napoleon Bona-
part, invaded that land in 1798, and they
in turn were driven from it by the Turks
and British in 1801, and the country re-
stored to the Ottoman Porte.
	Historians are unanimously agreed that
Menes, or Misraim, was the first king of
Egypt. He was the son of Cham, the
second son of Noah, and when the family
of the latter, after an extravagant attempt
at building the tower of Babel dispersed
into different countries, Cham, or Ham, re-
tired to Africa. He had four children,
Chus, or Cush, in the Scriptures,— Mis-
raim, Phut and Canaan. Cush settled in
Ethiopia; Misraim in Egypt, which is
sometimes called in the Bible after his
name, and by that of Cham, his father.
The foot-steps of its old name, Misraim, re-
main to this day among the Arabians, who
call it Mesre. Phut took possession of that
part of Africa which lies westward of Egypt,
and Canaan of the country which after-
wards bore his name. Ancient history
says, that “the Canaanites are certainly the
same people who are generally called
Phoenicians by the Greeks, and of which
foreign name no reason can be given, any
more than for the oblivion of the true one.”
			  (Continued.)


WOMAN S  EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly

[Column 2]
Hall, April 17, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Lord we
come before Thee now;” prayer by Sister
M. E. Kimball; singing “O say what is
truth.” The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and approved. President
Horne felt very happy in meeting with the
sisters today, more so if possible, for the
reason she had not been here for some
time. Felt these meetings were more
educational than any others the sisters
could attend; thought that President
Young was inspired when he organized
these Associations. Said that those who
feared God met often and spoke one to
another, and a book of remembrance was
kept and these testimonies were all entered.
Referred to some remarks of President
Young wherein he said that if the Saints
would be humble and more united, it
would not be long before the rest of the
Book of Mormon would be given us.
Spoke of the goodness of God to us; those
who gave to the poor loaned to the Lord.
President Horne felt this Hall had been
kept from desecration and from evil spirits;
for we could all testify to the good times
we have had in this building. Prayed we
might always be faithful, and that the good
spirit might continue to be with us. Sis-
ter Mary Silver felt glad she was a Latter-
day Saint and bore her testimony. Sister
Morris bore her testimony and asked for
the faith and prayers of the sisters.
	A sister from Brigham City felt pleased
to be here in this meeting today, had look-
ed forward to it, for she felt she would re-
ceive a blessing; was very much interested
in the work and said when she received
her EXPONENT the first thing she read
was the minutes of these meetings; bore a
strong testimony.
	Sister Wright made some remarks Felt
very thankful for her many blessings and
more especially that she could go into the
Temple and do work for her kindred. Re-
ferred to the time when she first joined the
Church, and said her desire was to do
good. Singing “O give me back my pro-
phet dear.”
	Counselor E. Webb felt thankful to hear
the sisters appreciated the Gospel in the
way they did. Said we could go to our
Heavenly Father with any and everything
and ask Him to help and comfort us, and
were sure of an answer. He was always
near us to help when He was sought
earnestly. Spoke of Temple work and
urged the sisters who lived near to came to
the Temple and do for their dead all that
was possible. Prayed the spirit of testi-
mony might be poured out upon the sisters.
	Sister Louie Stevenson made some re-
marks, and spoke of her son who is on a
mission, and how he was received by the
outsiders. Sister Margaret O. Brown re-
ferred to the last April conference, felt it
was the best conference we had ever had,
the brethren had all been inspired who
spoke to us. God always answered her
prayers; whenever she wanted to know any-
thing she asked Him and He always en-
lightened her.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of her
Temple work and what a grand work she
considered it was. Exhorted the sisters to
be kind to one another, and not to judge
but to help and bless one another. Prayed
God to bless us all.
	Sister Catherine Forsythe bore her testi-
mony and spoke on prayer. Sister Mar-
garet Thompson bore her testimony, and

[Column 3]
said she felt it was good to be here. Sing- 
ing “The trials of the present day.”
	Sister Jane James felt she could not keep 
away from these meetings if she tried.
Spoke of her children and the anxiety she
felt for them; felt to bless Sister Horne for
the teachings she had given to her. Sister
Betsy Brower bore her testimony.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown felt she must 
bear her testimony she felt so overjoyed
for the Gospel, also that we could ask the
Lord for blessings and be sure that they
would be given us; made some beautiful
remarks.
	Sister Davis bore her testimony, said she
felt very grateful for the Gospel, and spoke
of when she first joined the Mormons; felt 
very anxious over her friends who were in 
the East and who do not believe as she 
does
	Sister Sarah Phelps said her constant
prayer and desire was that the honest in
heart might be gathered out from the judg-
ments that were coming upon them. Urged
the sisters to be faithful and diligent, and
do all they could. Prayed God to bless us.
	Sister Julia C. Howe wished to testify to
the goodness of God, and said she had been
greatly blessed and comforted by being
here today. Spoke of her Temple work
and how she had been blessed in it; hoped
the sisters would be more diligent and
faithful in serving the Lord. Said we
must encourage one another, that our ex-
ample meant much. Spoke of a party she
attended when President Young was alive,
also referred to his remarks. Prayed God
to bless Sister Horne for her words of com-
fort and wisdom.
	Sister Harriet Badger bore her testi-
mony and made some beautiful remarks.
Sister Margaret Taylor said she was invited
to attend the matinee this afternoon, and
was in a quandary whether she would go
there or attend this meeting, she felt she
had chosen wisely by coming here for she
had been greatly blest. Prayed God to
bless us all.
	Counselor E. Stevenson urged the sisters
to come to the Temple at least one day a
week; felt our time was short. Referred
to the remarks of President Woodruff at
Brigham City when he said the Angel of
Destruction had gone forth; she said we
could testify to this when we pick up the
daily papers. Prayed we might be more
diligent and faithful.
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks, and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing “Weep, weep not for
me Zion.” Benediction by Sister Annie
T. Hyde.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


HALF RATE EAST VIA UNION
PACIFIC.
	For the accommodation of a large num-
ber of teachers and their friends, the Union 
Pacific as usual will make rate of one fare
for the round trip to Missouri River, Chicago
and St. Louis. Tickets on sale June 5th,
6th and 7th, good until Sep. 5th. Call at
Union Pacific ticket office, No. 201 Main
Street for any additional information.


At the “Ladies Club” in Paris, France,
the voting is done in secret session. The
club is open for one month to the aspirant
for membership. If her conduct is ap-
proved she is then voted in; otherwise she
is refused admittance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BUILD WELL
“TO WOMEN THE BUILDERS OF THE TEMPLE OF 
				  LIFE.”
	     BY ADELAIDE COMSTOCK.

BUILD well the temple, ye mothers of men;
For know ye are builders for glory or shame.
Know ye are building for weakness or might,
Know ye are building for darkness or [-]ight,
God has ordained you his workers to be,
Weighed in his bala[-]ce your products must be;
Judged by his justice the work ye have wrought,
Paid by his measure the meed ye have sought.
Lay your foundation in wisdom and love,
And beautiful angels will smile from above;
Building for heaven, ye build well for earth;
Mankind’s greatest need is a holier birth.
Oh, we have builded in sorrow and shame,
Pity us heaven ! we were not to blame;
Groping in darkness we knew not the way,
Light is now breaki[-]g, oh, welcome the day,
Dawn of an era by prophets foretold, 
Sung of by bards, spoke by sages of old,
When angelic hosts shall from heaven proclaim,

Peace upon earth and good will to all men.
Woman, through thee this grand era must come;
Or prophets, bards, sages as well might be 
	dumb;
Can figs grow of thistles? or grapes on the
	thorn?
Or from feverish passion can angels be born ?
Oh, haste thee to cast the symbols of sin,
And say in love’s power—‘ I will be thou clean.”
Call heaven to aid thee and guide thee aright,
And go forth in thy womanhood armed to the
	fight.
Aye, to fight 'gainst false passion and conquer by
	love,
And man lifted higher thy labor shall prove;
For nations shall bless thee for that thou hast
	done,
And glory shall crown thee more bright than the
	sun.
For patriot souls shall then rise in their might,
And build the grand temple of Justice and Right,
Which could not be built until woman should
	come,
To aid in the work from foundation to dome.
And then, in your building, build wisely and well;
How ye have builded the future will tell:
For know the Grand Master will mea[-]ure with
	care
And try every corner with plummet and square.
Then if thou hast built for ambition or fame,
Oh, woe to thee, builder! confusion a d shame
Shall follow thy building; but honored shall be,
The builders who build for eternity.
	San Burnaventura, California.

	Presented by Mrs. Carrie Kester and read by
Mrs. Armeda S. Young in the Woman’s Physiologi-
cal Association conference, held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall, April 7, 1897.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE OF W. H. P. SOCIETY.

	MINUTES of the Conference of the Wo-
man’s Hygienic Physiological Society, held
in the 14th Ward assembly rooms March
7, 1897. Singing “How firm a found-
ation;” prayer by Lucy B. Young; sing-
ing “To Thee O, God we do approach.”
Sister Armeda S. Young, President of Salt
Lake association, spoke of the necessity of
a mother understanding the needs of the
body in order to bring about a physical
redemption of the race, and the relation
dress had to this improved condition; she
concluded by reading a poem—“Build
Well.”
	Minutes of the last Conference read and

[Column 2]
accepted. Sister Sorensen gave a report of
her work in Idaho where she had been
laboring the last month; she said she had
been very successful and a great deal of the
credit was due to the brethren who had
assisted her by every means in their power.
	The following program was carried out:
Lecture on Social Purity, by Sister Lydia
Brown of Pleasant Grove. She said the
underlying course of soical impurity was
the ignorance of the parents, their not un-
derstanding the great influence heredity
has in the molding of character.
	Sister Rose Hayes treated the subject of
Mother and Child. She said the true mis-
sion of woman is to bear and rear children,
and that the love that exists between
mother and child was one of the strongest
of human ties; that a woman should under-
stand child nature and so from the first
give the child proper training, for it is
easier to mold than to reform.
	Sister Cluff, of Skull valley was called up-
on to address the Conference. She was
thankful for the knowledge she possessed
of the work, for it had been a great bless-
ing to her, as she believed it would be to
any woman who would take it up.
	Sister Lucy Heppler, of Richfield, Sevier
Co., bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the work.
	Mrs. Dorathy Gunn spoke of the proper
care we should take of our bodies and the
value of nature’s remedies, Air, Water and
Sunshine.
	Several of the brethren were called upon
to speak. They expressed themselves as
being pleased with the work and encour-
aged the sisters to continue in it.
	Sister Ollie Hildahl recited “O My
Father.” Adjourned until 2 o’clock by
singing “We thank Thee O God for a
prophet.” Prayer by John Hafen.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Began by sing-
ing “Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah;”
prayer by Brother George Goddard; sing-
ing “O My Father;” outline of the ward
missionary work read by Sister Julia S.
Woolley.
	Child Training, was to have been given
by Sister Keeler, of Provo, but as she was
unavoidably absent her husband, Bishop
Keeler read her paper
	Dr. H. A. Anderson treated the subject
of Preparation for Marriage, in a very in-
teresting manner. Sister Olive Anderson
spoke on the subject of Hygienic Cooking,
said great care should be taken in selecting
and preparing food as to its nutritive value;
for the object of partaking of food is to sus-
tain life, that grains were of the greatest
value if properly cooked.
	Sister Ollie Hildahl’s subject was Dress.
She said we should dress artistically, but
not sacrifice health for fashion.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor spoke of the
necessity of an improvement in our way of
living, that God has given us the Word of
Wisdom as a guide. Singing Doxology;
prayer by Bishop Elias Morris.
	JULIA S. WOOLLEY Ass’t. Secretary.


THE DENVER VICTORY.

	THE Rocky Mountain News says: 
	The women of Denver have silenced those
who have asserted that the possession of e[-]u[-]l
suffrage by women is not a powerful weapon in
behalf of good government. The ladies of the
Civic Federa ion gallantly raised the banner
ong ago, and were largely instrumental in fram-
ng the Taxpayers’ ticket. T[-]ey were aided dur-
ng the canvas and on yesterday by thousands of


women [-]ho could not be swerved from their con-
victions by sophistry or the pleadings of partisans.
The News believes that the action of the women
of Denver will win praise for their sex from every
part of the country, and that they will never re-
lax their dete mination to make the only large
city in which women vote the best-governed city
in the world.
	Denver is not the only large city in
which women vote. They vote in every
city in England and Scotland, in every
city of Kansas and in almost every city of
Canada; and their votes are generally on
the side of good government. But the ob-
ject-lesson in Denver is conspicuous and on
a large scale.
	Mrs. Helen G. Ecob writes:
	The Taxpayers' ticket which won an ove -
[-]helming victory in he municipal election of
Denver on April 6, is the ticket nominated by
the convention called by the Woman’s Civic
Federation. This organization co-operated with
the Taxpayers in an eflort to put competent
and trustworthy men in nomination, the Civic
Fe[-]eration adopting the name and emblem of
the Taxpayers. The triumph of this effort for
good government shows what may be accom-
plished when right-minded women put their
shoulders to the political wheel, and Denver re-
joices in her enfranchised dau hters.
								—Ex.


LETTER FROM BUNKERVILLE, NEV.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	I THOUGHT I would address a few lines
to you from this far away place. We are
about sixty miles from St. George but be-
long to that Stake of Zion. We have a
good Sunday school here and in good run-
ning order, also a Relief Society and
Primary Association. We have Mutual
Improvement meetings with both young
men and young ladies; the young people as
well as the old take a great interest in at-
tending to their duties. There is no out-
side influence here to contend with, all are
our own people.
	I am a subscriber for the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT and I think it is a very nice, use-
ful paper, and I peruse it with care and in-
terest. When I received the Exponent
which contained the selection from the
“Times and Seasons” by President Joseph
Smith, although I have never seen that
volume of the “Times and Seasons,” but I
sent the poem in full that I took from the
Deseret News that was printed May 14,
1876. I want to keep up my subscription
for the paper and will send the money just
as soon as I can get it.
	Your sister and co-laborer in the Gospel
H. M. EARL.
	April 4, 1897.


DR. HENRY M. HOWE, the distinguished
son of a distinguished mother, Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe, has been elected professor of
metallurgy at Columbia University. Dr.
Howe will give a course of lectures in the
School of Mines, beginning on April 19,
treating of the properties of steel, crucible
steel, cementation and the Harvey process.
Dr. Howe received the Bessemer medal
from the British Iron and Steel Institute
for his work on the “Metallurgy of Steel,”
and he is the ex-president of the American
Institute of Mining Engineers.
	THE White Ribbon (New Zealand) states
that two Maori ladies, Mrs. Hirani and
Mrs. Taranaki, were members of a deputa-
tion which recently waited on the premier
of New Zealand in regard to native land
disputes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor,
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, May 1, 1897.


[Column 1]
PARTY IN THE LION HOUSE.

	ON Thursday afternoon April 29, Sister
Margaret P. Young gave a most enjoyable
party in the interesting parlor of the Lion
House. Most of the guests present were
Temple workers; of others there were Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon and President
Angus M. Cannon, Elder A. M. Musser
and a few sisters who were either relatives
or intimate friends among which number
the writer was delighted to be included, as
the company was very select and the house
itself is exceedingly historic, perhaps the
most so of any residence in the State.
	The afternoon was passed in social con-
versation mostly reminiscent of the house,
its illustrious owner and its belongings, of
incidents connected with it and the people
who were familiar and frequent guests
there in the days of President Brigham
Young.
	There were present of his wives besides
the hostess Sister Margaret Young, Sisters
Zina D. H. Young, Emily P. Young,
Naamah T. Young, Lucy B. Young and
Harriet B. Young, and quite a number of his
children which made the house seem much
more natural and homelike than it other-
wise would. The fact of President Young
having died in that house being spoken of,
the guests were told they might visit the
room in which his spirit took its departure
from his mortal body; a large number of
the company availed themselves of this
opportunity; Sister Eliza R. Snow’s death
in the room adjoining the parlor was also
spoken of with tender feeling, and these,
with other more cheerful subjects, formed
interesting matter to dwell upon.
	After refreshments were served and all
had partaken in a social way, one or two
recitations were given and the little grand-
son of Sister Margaret Young played some
difficult musical compositions on the violin,
several very fine musical selections were
given on the piano by Spencer Clawson
Jun, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards sang
in the most delightful way in her exquisite
clear voice the beautiful song by Millard
entitled “Waiting,” and later on by
request, gave “ O, My Father;” and
then there was a little old fashioned
dancing more for the sake of “Auld Lang
Syne” than any particular enjoyment in
the dancing itself. Then a recitation
“Flossie’s Marriage” by Miss Mabel
Snow was given in a very graceful and
forcible manner; afterwards, President
Lorenzo Snow a dressed the brethren and

[Column 2]
sisters alluding particularly to the work in
the Temple and urging the benefits to the
living and the dead. President Angus M.
Cannon also spoke briefly, calling up
remembrances of other days, and relating
some particular incidents that had tran-
spired in that house, which were very
pleasing to recall. Sister Zina D. H.
Young spoke in a very feeling manner for
a few minutes and then broke out in the
gift of tongues, Sister Zina Y. Card gave
the interpretation which was very comfort-
ing.
	As it was getting late the company joined
in singing and Bishop John R. Winder
pronounced the benediction and the com-
pany dispersed, feeling the time had been
delightfully passed and congratulating Sis-
ter Margaret Young upon the success of
the gathering and wishing her many more
years of usefulness upon the earth.
	Sister Margaret P. Young’s birthday
anniversary was on the 19th of April, but
she postponed the party to a more conven-
ent date. Sister Margaret was seventy-
four years of age April 19, 1897—and she
looks remarkably well for one who has
lived so many years and passed through so
much. She was born in Ashton town-
ship, Delaware County, Penn. April 19,
1823, her parents were Quakers, Robert
and Hannah Pierce. They received the
Gospel and were baptized in 1840 and went
up to Nauvoo, Illinois in 1841; in Nauvoo
they lived down near to Brigham Young’s
residence. Sister Margaret was married to
President Young in the Nauvoo Temple
early in 1846 and came out in the winter
time in February 1846, traveling with her
father’s family in the main body of the
Saints. Brother Robert Pierce was one of
the pioneers of 1847, leaving Winter
Quarters in May of that year; Sister Mar-
garet came to the valley with her father
and mother, who also brought with them
Sister Eliza R. Snow the gifted poet and
author. Sister Margaret Young has lived
permanently in the Lion House ever since
it was built, and is still likely to remain
there for many years to come, for she has
the appearance of being very long lived.
	We can scarcely express the feeling one
has when going over such historic places,
but on that day we recalled to mind the
first social party we attended there after
President Young’s death when Gen. Wells
in responding to an invitation to speak was
almost overcome with emotion, and repeat-
ed in closing his speech the beautiful words
of Moore,
“I feel like one who treads alone some banquet
	hall deserted,
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead, and
	all but me departed.”


[Column 1]
THE OLD JOURNEY.

[From the Missouri river to the Great
Salt Lake Valley]
	ALFRED LAMBOURNE, the artist and
author, is bringing out a new publication
which will be a rare production of facts,
incidents and descriptions of the pioneer
journey across the plains, and will be
graphically illustrated as well as artistically
written. The author’s style is always,
graceful and when he has so fruitful and
genial a subject to write upon he cannot
fail to please and interest the public. His
book as far as we have seen the proofs
abounds in stirring passages and is in lan-
guage and sentiment intensely poetical.

[Column 2]
	The book coming at just the right time,
the Jubilee celebration, will attract more
attention and we ardently wish Mr. Lam-
bourne might realize in a greater degree
than book men usually do, pecuniary bene
fit from the sale of the work of his pen and
brain. But we are well aware that it is
with him as with geniuses generally a
labor of heart and soul interwoven with the
love of his subject.
	Mr. Lambourne gives such vivid descrip-
tions of scenery and of storms, sunrises,
sunsets, moonlight, and of dancing that we
can easily fancy the real picture, and he al-
so gives with pathetic feeling the sad side
of the picturesque journey in deaths and
burials by the wayside, the night guard
and all from an artistic standpoint, which
cannot fail to gratify the most fastidious
lover of the romantic and of a high class of
literature.
	The book will contain eighteen photo-
gravure plates of scenes that are natural
and finely executed. Beginning with
Nebraska landscape with a prairie fire, Sun-
set on the Platte River, The Unbroken
Prairie, Court House Rock. Chimney Rock,
Scotts Bluffs. Left by the Roadside,
Abandoned Camp, Among the Black Hills,
Laramie Peak, Sweetwater River, The
Devil’s Gate, The Night Guard, A Buffalo
Herd, Independence Rock, Ford of the
Green River, Moonlight in Echo Cañon,
First glimpse of the Valley; all these pic-
tures will be not only dear to the pioneers
and others who crossed the plains in those
early days, but will bring to view the
many scenes and exploits of the past and
help to rivet them in the minds of this and
succeeding generations. These reminiscen-
ces are well worth preserving in the delight-
ful style in which this note-worthy book is
sure to be prepared. Mr. Lambourne not
only puts his heart into his work but he al-
so gets the best material to set it off.
	The paper itself will be such as an artist
would be likely to use in our day, antique,
decle-edge, and the type new, clear and odd,
in fact no pains will be spared to commend
it to public notice. It will be issued from the
press of George Q. Cannon and Sons Co.,
and will be The First Art Book In Utah of
home production, which is likely to prove
a high recommendation. We hope and
trust the Semi Centennial Commission will
purchase a sufficient number of copies of
Mr. Lambourne’s book “The Old Jour-
ney” to present one to each of the living
pioneers of 1847. One cannot even look
over the pictures without being forcibly
reminded of the original, and many tender
recollections of the past spring to mind that
had been buried or for the time forgotten.
	Mr. Lambourne makes some telling com-
parisons between the past and the present,
which will be calculated to awaken thought
and perchance stimulate young people to
emulate the valor and heroism of the noble
and valiant pioneers of these mountain vales.


PAMPHLET ON SERICULTURE.

	THE Utah Silk Commission have just
brought out a treatise on silk raising, that
will give all the necessary information on
this useful and remunerative industry.
The ladies have taken great pains to col-
lect practical facts and give them to the
public in order to facilitate the work of
those, who desire to engage in this interest-
ing and important home manufacture.
Looking over the book carefully, one can-


not fail to notice how very clearly every-
thing is told, and that there are no super-
fluous words or language, but a setting
forth of instructions that even the newest
beginner and the most inexperienced novice
in the art of silk culture will readily under-
stand.
	The book opens with instructions in re-
gard to the advantages of climate, and
other facilities within the state, and gives
much that is valuable and advantageous to
know of this wonderful little creature, the
silk worm; also concerning mulberry trees
and the care of the worms, feeding and pro-
tecting them and the best methods of treat-
ment and of carrying on the work; then
comes in full, An Act of the Legislature of
1896- in which the law was passed for the
establishment of sericulture in the state of
Utah, and this is followed by some pages
of definite information upon mulberry trees
and their care, next raising the worms and
the explicit treatment and methods, with
tables showing what can be done, the
necessary space allotted for certain numbers
and so on; and under heads farther on
TAKING CARE OF THE SEED, HATCHING
AND REELING.
	There are several plates in the book illus-
trating these processes, and in fact it is the
most complete work on this subject that
has ever been published here in Utah. The
commission are anxious this book should
be circulated in the state, and persons who
wish to raise cocoons or manufacture silk
should send to Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary of the Utah Silk Commission for
the book, if they expect to follow out the
wisest and best methods to make the work
successful and profitable. The commission
is very anxious to encourage and promote
silk culture, and to make it a source of
revenue to individuals and to the state. It
was with this object in view that the Legis-
lature passed this act to establish it and ap-
propriated money to aid and foster the in-
dustry in the new state; and knowing
what has been accomplished in the past,
and what has been done recently in some
localities in Cache, Utah and Washington
counties, it is little less than a crime to let
this industry languish when there are so
many idle hands that could with a little
energy and perseverance help themselves
instead of being dependent. The results
obtained in reeled silk, lace and other arti-
cles as also in dress goods, are excellent.
The lace surpasses in beauty that which is
imported, and like other home made goods
will out-last and out-wear foreign fabrics,
and of course other things will also; the
whitest silk reeled from the white Russian
cocoons is very beautiful, almost dazzlingly
so. There could not be a more suitable
occupation for young girls than the reeling
of silk from the cocoons, which can be done
in their own homes, and is light and simple
employment, and one need not serve for
years to learn this business; the reelers will
be furnished where there is a sufficient
number of girls to form a class and cocoons
enough to warrant the necessary expendi-
ture of public money.
	We again invite correspondence on this
subject from those who have been success-
ful in obtaining satisfactory results.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WEDDING BELLS.

	THE marriage of Miss Maude Pratt to J.
E. Griggs was solemnized in the Salt Lake


Temple in this city, April 22, 1897, by
President Wilford Woodruff.
	Miss Pratt is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Laron Pratt of the 17th Ward, and
the grand-daughter of the late distinguished
Apostle Orson Pratt: the young lady is a
gifted singer of the Tabernacle choir, and is
a member of the Utah Woman’s Press
Club and one of the Aids in the Y. L. M.
I. A. of Salt Lake Stake. The young
husband is a son of T. C. Griggs and is an
honorable, upright citizen. The young
couple have a neat little home of their own
and are beginning right.
	"Though fools spurn Hymen's gentle powers
	We who improve his golden hours.
	By sweet experience know
	That marriage rightly understood
	Gives to the tender and the good
	A paradise below.”
	A reception was held at the residence of
the bride’s parents in the evening which
was an enjoyable affair. The rooms were
profusely decorated with flowering plants
and trailing vines, and also cut flowers
tastefully arranged, and everything be-
tokened a festive occasion. Delicious re-
freshments were daintily served to the
guests by the beautiful girls attired in
white, and a very elaborate and ornamental
wedding cake made in layers was a part of
it, tied in tissue paper and each guest
helped to one of these dainty little parcels.
	The bride was dressed in soft, clinging
white silk trimmed with lace and carried a
bunch of beautiful white roses, looking
very charming and happy—the bridesmaids
were Miss May Pratt the sister of the bride,
in pale green and pink carnations, and Miss
Pearl Russell, in white with red carnations,
both modest in demeanor as becomes beauti-
ful maidens There were two groomsmen
George Morris and Bert Griggs, and alto-
gether the quiet and graceful way in which
the bride and bridegroom and party received,
(the surroundings harmonizing) was very
pretty and appropriate to such an occasion.
Congratulations were very numerous and
earnest, and one cannot but feel that Mr.
and Mrs. Griggs have started on the jour-
ney of life with every prospect of future
prosperity and happiness.
	There were many valuable and useful
presents, gifts from members of the family
and intimate friends.
	We also extend the most sincere con-
gratulations to the young bride and bride-
groom, and wish them the most perfect
happiness consistent for mortals to enjoy in.
this probation, who are gaining an ex-
perience for eternity.
	“If solid happiness we prize,
	Within our hearts the jewel lies
	And they are fools who roam;
	The world has nothing to bestow—
	From our own selves our joys must flow
	And that dear hut our home ”


A FRIEND OF LONG AGO.
 
	A VERY pleasing incident unexpectedly
happened to the writer recently. A school
girl friend (of a remote period) on her way
from California to her home in Boston,
stopped off at Salt Lake to see the city as
tourists usually do, and while here recalled
to mind that she had known some of our
people in her early childhood, and particu-
larly remembered one, and was so impressed
with the idea that she inquired of a lady


sitting next her in the Tabernacle if she
knew such a person and so on. It proved
to be one who did know, and she came to
Waterloo after the services closed and
found the very one she was searching for.
Of course we didn’t know each other for
she was only ten years old when we last
met though the writer was fifteen, but the
past all came to view as soon as we con-
versed and it was indeed a most delightful
interview after so many years (more than
half a century) to talk over the people, the
places and the circumstances with which
we were both familiar in the days of child-
hood. Such meetings give one something
of an idea of the feelings we shall have
when we go behind the vail and meet old
friends and acquaintances.
	The time we passed together was limited
but we improved it to the uttermost. We
both called up the friends we had known
and made many inquiries, Mrs. Shaw
whom the writer had known as Frances B.
Hunter, remembered the Elders of our
Church preaching in the neighborhood
where we both lived, particularly the meet-
ing at mother’s house and the baptism in our
brook adjoining, and the Woodbury boys
speaking in tongues and interpreting.
Shortly after this time we went to Nauvoo
and her family moved to another part of
the State of Massachusetts so she lost all
trace of us and we of them. When she
came to this city she had no idea whether we
were living or dead, but was, as she ex-
plained it, so anxious to know what had
become of us that she inquired.
	The party consisted of Dr. Samuel J.
Shaw and wife, his brother and wife from
Boston. Dr. Shaw impressed one as be-
ing a man of learning and of careful
thought, extremely liberal in his opinions,
and not a member of any Church. They
have one daughter married who resides in
Boston. They were, judging from con-
versation, favorably impressed with Utah
and the people, with the services at the
Tabernacle, with the Governor and with
Saltair and our beautiful Lake. It was
indeed very gratifying to meet Mrs. Shaw
and her husband and to renew the acquain-
tance or over half a century.

	“The day is short, O friend,
		That reaches out before us;
	God’s tender heavens above us bend,
		His love is smiling o’er us;
	A little while is ours
		For sorrow or for laughter;
	I’ll lay the hand you love in yours,
		On the shore of the Hereafter.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Friday April 30, we attended the
Relief Society Conference of Utah S ake
held at American Fork. Other visitors
were President Zina D. H. Young and her
daughter Sister Zina Y. Card and Elder L.
John Nuttall. President Mary John of
Provo was present and presided, opening
the Conference with a hearty welcome to
all present. The presidents of branches
gave encouraging reports and the speakers
most of them dwelt much upon home in-
dustries and productions, especially urging
the sisters to take hold of sericulture, and
make it a success, also to sustain our home
periodicals and advised young women to
enroll their names and become active mem-
bers of the Relief Society. There was a
very large attendance especially in the


afternoon, and Bishop Robinson was ex
ceedingly thoughtful and kind in providing
for the horses, as many of the sisters from
other settlements came with teams, rail-
roads not being convenient or money plenti-
ful. Sister Ellen D. Clark, President of
the Relief Society at American Fork, pre-
pared a sumptuous dinner for thirty or
more of the sisters and brethren, though
there were but a few brethren, it being
seed time, probably they were in the fields
at work. Sister Zina Young was in one of
her most eloquent moods, and as the Con
ference was numerously attended it was
very gratifying to have the President of
this great organization present, to hear her
and no doubt they appreciated the privilege.
We expect to have the minutes taken to
publish in the next issue of the paper.
	ONE of the sad things in connection with
the death of Elder Joseph Horne, the aged
patriarch who departed this life on Tuesday
April 27, at 3 p. m , was the sudden de
mise of the twin boys of Brother and Sister
Tingey, the following day. They were
Brother Horne’s grandchildren by his daugh-
ter Martha—and the last official act of his life
in the priesthood was blessing one of these
twin-babies on the Sabbath morning, when
they were eight days old, April 18. He
was taken sick the same night and from
that time gradually declined until the hour
of his departure from mortality. The twins
were named Weiler and Stafford Horne
Tingey and were nineteen days old; both
died on the same day only a few hours
apart. The funeral took place on Thurs-
day, April 29, and Brother Horne was
buried the following day, Friday, April
30. We feel confident that our sisters will
deeply sympathize with the family in this
double bereavement, and exercise their faith
in behalf of those who mourn that they
may be comforted; and we most earnestly
pray for the young mother who has been
called to part with her little sons that she
may be speedily restored to health, and
may the angels from on high draw near to
her and may she be able and willing to
acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly
Father in this sore affliction, knowing that
He doeth all things well, and knows what
is best for His children.
	'Weep not for those whom the vail of t e tomb
	In life’s happy morning has hid from our eyes,
Ere sin threw a blight o’er their spirits young
	bloom.
	Or earth had profaned what was born for the
		skies,”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
FERENCE.

	EVENING SESSION: April 3, commenc-
ing at 7.30, President Zina D. H. Young
presiding, Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith on the stand, also
President Charles O. Card and Sisters M.
Isabella Horne, E. B. Wells, R. B. Pratt,
Zina Y. Card and several Presidents of
the Relief Society from the different Stakes
of Zion, some from a great distance notably
Sister Mary L. Woolf, President Alberta
Stake Relief Society, Canada, and Sister
Annie Hardy from Pacheco, Mexico, who
represented Juarez Stake Relief Society.
	Conference opened with singing “O say
what is truth;” prayer was offered by
Elder Charles O. Card, President Alberta
Stake, Canada; continued by singing

[Column 2]
“Redeemer of Israel.” President Zina D.
H. Young made a few opening remarks,
regretted the small attendance, yet felt
many of the sisters who had come from a
distance were weary and needed rest, as
the General Conference opened the next
morning, therefore could scarcely expect
they could come out in the evening.
	President Susan Grant of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake, made a brief report
of the Society in that County and expressed
her great pleasure in the good work; com-
mended the officers and members in the
several branches in that locality, said they
were diligent and on hand to obey counsel;
rejoiced in the faith of the Gospel and the
work of the Society.
	Sister Annie D. Hardy, representative
from Mexico, spoke cheerfully and in an
interesting manner of the country, the mis-
sion undertaken by the people in that local-
ity, and the good feeling that prevailed;
referred to the Society in Pacheco of which
she was President, but said there were not
enough older sisters to have a meeting with-
out mixing with the young ladies; they had
planted out mulberry trees in Mexico and
hoped to be able to do something in sericul-
ture. Sister Hardy was very encouraging
in her remarks and manifested an excellent
spirit; spoke in terms of praise of the sisters,
and of the efforts being made by them to be
helpful and also faithful in the Gospel.
	President Adeline S. Barber, Relief Soci-
ety Cache Stake, felt to be spurred on to
make efforts in industrial as well as spirit-
ual work; reported 7,000 bushels of grain
there and stated that three more granaries
had recently been built in the Stake; she
thought that the sisters had a mission to
raise silk, spoke of sending from Logan
to Brigham City for mulberry leaves; in
that place (Logan) they had reeled their
silk and it brought a good price. Sister
Barber had a dream about the raising of silk
and it had come to pass; nine girls had been
taught to reel up there, they had made a
window curtain of silk for one of the win-
dows of the Logan Temple. A brother
who manufactures under clothing will buy
all the reeled silk the Society can spare.
Sister Barber told of the efforts made in a
small way by little donations and saving
Sunday eggs to help on sericulture, the
Lord had blest their efforts to start the silk
industry; they had made some silk stock-
ings, pillow lace and a shawl; these things
were exhibited to the sisters. Sister Bar-
ber convinced all present of her interest in
home manufacture and her energy in her
work in the Relief Society, temporal and
spiritual.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, Relief
Society, St. George Stake, felt sure they
had a mint in sericulture, realized it would
be a benefit to them in taking care of the
poor and providing work for those who
were able to do a little towards their own
support. To illustrate the perseverance of
the sisters, Sister Woodbury told us one
asked the Bishop for a piece of land; she
wanted it on a lease for fifty years, to build
a granary and she got it, and then built
the granary with the help of the Society.
Sister Woodbury also urged the sisters to
be faithful and work for their dead.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the first sermon President Brigham Young
preached here in the valley, and what he
said of the air being filled with the ele-
ments of silk, of his great faith in the en-
terprise as furnishing work for the idle and

[Column 3]
also its being remunerative; thought we
should bestir ourselves and try to get em-
ployment for our girls and boys instead of
letting them grow up in idleness; was glad
the sisters in Cache had made such efforts
to establish sericulture but realized that St.
George and the Southern part of the State
was best adapted to this important home
industry.
	Sister Zina Y. Card talked about home
industries; referred to her father’s words,
(President Brigham Young) when he said
the elements were full of silk, it was in the
air, and if we persevered in following his
teachings we could do much towards our
own maintenance. The speaker alluded
eloquently to what might be accomplished
in this direction not only in sericulture, but
in cultivating hops, starting vineyards of
this vine and also the grape vine; added
‘‘If we have done these things then we are
rich, and if we have not then we are to
blame, for not listening to counsel; father
had a large house built on the silk farm
where there were thousands of mulberry
trees;” described the silk farm, and told us
that her mother lived there for a time and
how she had become attached to the
silk worms, though shrinking from them
at first. Sister Card thought we as a peo-
ple had made too much of the things of
this world, and thought too much of the
business of the world, and of riches and
worshiping the things of the world instead
of seeking after spiritual things, thought it
was displeasing in the sight of the Lord.
The speaker urged the mothers to teach
their children that it was a disgrace to live
off their father after they were of age, they
should be self-supporting, learn a trade or
go out and take up land and be indepen-
dent. Thought the Relief Society should
have a house of their own to meet in, felt
positive we would and wanted it to come
before the aged sisters who were with us
now and who had borne so much, passed
away.
	Sister E. B. Wells read the total of the
statistical and financial report of the Relief
Society for the year 1896—and made some
explanations in reference to the growth and
progress of that magnificent organization
which reached around the world, and had
benefited so large a number temporally,
morally and spiritually. Reported concern-
ing the branches of the Society upon the
islands of the Sea, paid a glowing tribute to
the labors on the Sandwich Islands of the
late Sister Libbie Noall, and mentioned the
branches in European countries, and made
special reference to the organizations effect-
ed during the past year in Chicago and
Sacramento, and also in reference to the
Society being connected with the National
Council of women of the United States and
felt it was a great step in advance, did not
understand why any one should object to
the name National being added, especially
as the Society was both national and inter-
national before we took the name. Sister
Wells thought every young sister should
enroll her name with the Relief Society and
assist in the charitable work; also made
some telling remarks upon the silk indus-
try, thought it more desirable than a gold
mine, the work was much easier and not
dangerous; hoped we could all of us have
silk dresses and other necessary apparel of
the same material; spoke very strongly up-
on this industry, explained about the Com-
mission appointed by the Governor, and
the appropriation made by the Legislature


of 1896, and the bounty on cocoons, and
thought if we were earnest and energetic
in producing silk we might have other
help in the manufacturing, it would require
patience and perseverance, and we could
not expect too much at first. The speaker
made a strong appeal to the sisters to en-
deavor to encourage home literature as
well as other home products.
	Conference adjourned until next October.
Singing “O my Father” benediction by
Sister E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 
			  ELIZABETH JENKINS PREECE.

	AT a recent meeting of the Relief Society of
the Fourth ward the following references to the
life and work of Sister Elizabeth Jenkins Preece
were entered on the records of the society:
	Sister Elizabeth Jenkins Preece was born in
Herefordshire, England, June 14, 1827, and with
her parents gathered with the Saints at Nauvoo
in 1844. She was baptized into the Church at ten
years of age, and was married to John Preece at
Nauvoo in 1845. She came to Utah with her hus-
band in 1848, and from that time until her death
was a resident of the Fourth Ward.
	Few women have been more active than was
Sister Preece in carrying on the work God gives
women to do, and her Christian life, filled with
sacrifices and benefactions to the sick and needy,
may well serve as a model for those who seek to
gain at the end of earth’s 1abors the Master’s ap-
proving word, "Well done thou good and faith-
ful servant, enter thou into the joys of thy Lord.”
	For many years Sister Preece as president,
directed the labors of this Relief Society, and
through her untiring energy and gentle charity
much good was done for humanity.
	We are comforted for her loss in the conscious-
ness that for over half a century she lived in the
full faith of the Gospel, and that she took her de-
parture in the certain hope of a glorious resur-
rection.
					SARAH ARTHUR,
					MARY A. WEILER,
							Committee.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To our beloved Sister SageTreharne Jones, who
departed this life March 30, after suffering for
some time at intervals with severe spells of sick-
ness.
	Sister Jones was born at Ridively, Carmar-
thenshire, South Wales, on the 27th day of Nov-
ember, 1832, and became a member of this
Church in 1848, and in company with her parents,
William and Ann Treharne, emigrated to Utah in
1849, crossing the ocean in Captain Dan Jones’
company. She remained in Council  Bluffs with
her parents about three years and arrived in Salt
Lake City in 1852 In that same year she was
married to Thomas Jones and for a few months
resided in Spanish Fork  In the spring of 1853
she moved to Cedar City. In the year 1862 Sis-
ter Jones was left a widow with five sons and one
daughter. 
	Her only daughter and one son have died with-
in the last two years. They with their father will
gladly welcome home their loved one who has en-
dured faithfully to the end.
	Sister Jones has been connected with the Re-
lief Society ever since its first organization. For
a period of twenty-two years she has successively
filled the honorable position of Counselor, Presi-
dent and at her demise was first Counselor to our
Stake President, Sister Mary Ann Lunt. Sister
Jones though quite sick at the time, attended our
last Society Conference on the 12th of February,
and bore a powerful testimony to the truth of this
work.
	WHEREAS, We feel that by her death we have
been deprived of a true and sincere friend and
wise Counselor.
	RESOLVED, That we desire to emulate her
noble example, and that we herewith express our
deep sympathy for her children and grandchild-
ren.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of our Society, and one
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					MARY A. DOVER,
					MARY J. CORBETT
					JANE P. MACKELPRANG
							Committee
	Cedar City, April 9th.


[Column 1]
MARY STUART.

READ AT THE REAPERS CLUB SEP. 1897.
	SCOTLAND was before her with its rough
quarreling, contentions, factions, and
though she strive with all her womanly
might, what would it weigh against ambi-
tion and party strife. She landed at Leith
1561, her subjects receiving her with dem-
onstrations of joy. She determined to treat
the Reformers with kindness and consider-
ation, with the hope of gaining their confi-
dence. But in their leader, John Knox,
she met with strong opposition. He was a
man of great courage and strength of mind,
and the object of his life was to overturn
the power of the Pope in Scotland. He de-
nounced against the mass that was per-
formed in her own chapel, and the extrava-
gance of the court, bewailing as sinful
their dancing and other pastimes.
	The subject of her marriage was a vexed
one. It was urged by Knox that it was
the duty of the states to give her a hus-
band, that she had no right to impose one
on them. The Papists wished her to
marry a Catholic. The Reformers spoke
against one. Elizabeth feared a foreign
contract and presented her favorite the Earl
of Liecester. For three years this formed
the subject of a correspondence between the
two queens. Mary finally resolved to
marry her cousin, Lord Darnley, a man of
fine personal appearance, some three years
her junior. To this Elizabeth objected,
showing her hatred by confining his mother,
the Lady Lennox, in the tower and recall-
ing Darnley and his father from Scotland.
But in spite of all opposition Darnley and
Mary were married and it is said there was
never a more handsome couple. She was
in her twenty-fourth year and never more
beautiful. Darnley was of a grasping, self-
ish disposition, and it soon became appar-
ent that the crown of Scotland was more to
him than the queen. Dissatisfaction arose
between them, he grew envious of the con-
fidence she reposed in her secretary, David
Rezzio, and planned with others his assassina-
tion, which was accomplished, dragging
him from the presence of the queen and
her ladies. Mary vowed to be avenged on
his murderers, but with her gentle, forgiving
disposition it was impossible for her to hold
malice and listening to her husband’s per-
suasions none of the conspirators were
ever brought to justice.
	In July, 1566 a son was born to her to
whom was given the name of James. She
hoped this auspicious event would tend to
unite the different parties. Her days were 
full of anxiety and care. With all the
titles and honor she had bestowed upon
Darnley he was still dissatisfied and desired
to have conferred upon himself the crown
Matrimonial which in case of her death
would leave him king of Scotland. With
his arrogant pride and contempt of all re-
straint she could not feel to give him this.
He retaliated by leaving her society and
seeking that of dissolute companions.
Mary had made her brother, the Earl of
Murray, her minister. He was a devoted
Reformer and as such strongly opposed her
marriage with Darnley. He now incited
her nobles to rebellion, leaving her with
but a small party. James, Earl of Both-
well was one who remained faithful to her
interests; she made him minister in place
of Murray, who had escaped to England.
Darnley she could place no reliance upon.
He seemed suspicious of all who allied

[Column 2]
themselves with her cause. His willful
ness made her very unhappy. Hearing of
his sickness she sent her own physician to
him and prevailed upon him to return to
Edinburgh. One week later the house he
lodged in was blown up with powder and
his lifeless body was found near by. His
death was not so great a surprise as the
mystery which surrounded it. Bothwell
was accused of the crime with Mary as an
accomplice. Historians are divided on the
question, but Miss Benger who is a late
writer and authority says the last fifty
years has cleared much that was doubtful,
and gives stronger arguments in favor of
her innocence than can be found against it.
“Of no character in history,” she continues
“is there so much that is contradictory.”
Manvissire, ambassador between Scotland
and England at this time writes of his be-
lief in her innocence, although he was not
partial to her. We have in her life in-
numerable instances of her kindness of
heart, of her loving disposition, of her gen-
tleness and forbearance towards those who
differed in opinion with her. Such a deed
is worthy only of a Mary of England, or a
Catharine D. Medicis. Bothwell was sum-
moned to appear with others for trial, but
was acquitted.
	He now determined to marry the queen
and to this end gained the consent and
signatures of his nobles, carried Mary to
his Castle at Dunbar where she remained
for ten days, and whether prompted by
fear or worn and disheartened by the cares
around her, she consented to the marriage
which was performed quietly a few days
later. Bothwell treated her as a prisoner,
sentinels stood at her chamber door. No
one came to her but by his permission.
She was most wretched every day she was
seen to weep and bewail her unhappy lot.
For Bothwell she entertained no feeling
but that of fear. He attempted to gain
possession of the young prince, but was de-
feated by the uprising of the people. Mary
and Bothwell met the nobles at Carberry
hill, but the soldiers refusing to fight under
Bothwell, she placed herself under their
protection, on the assurance that Bothwell
should leave the field in safety. He sailed
for Denmark and in a few years died in-
sane. Thus ended the marriage of one
month.
	She now found herself a captive, and
more, was requested by the nobles to abdi-
cate the throne in favor of her son, during
whose minority her brother Murray was to
be regent. Feeling there was no alterna-
tive she complied with their demands. It
seems strange that among all those who
had enjoyed her prosperity there were none
to espouse her cause in this trying hour.
For one year she remained in captivity,
then made her escape, collected an army of
6,000 men only to be defeated. She hasti-
ly fled from Scotland, determined to throw
herself on the kindness of Elizabeth, but
on entering England found herself a prison-
er. The English queen professed to feel
much sorrow for her, but requested her to
clear her name from all complicity in the
murder of Darnley. Mary answered in her
own right she was a queen and Elizabeth’s
equal, and denied their authority to sum-
mon her to trial. For eighteen years she
remained in England a captive. Many
times she was brought to trial, but nothing
proved against her, but for the safety of
the Protestant party and Elizabeth’s peace
of mind, was kept a prisoner. Finally a


conspiracy was formed for the assassination of
Elizabeth, and Mary was accused of being
one of the number. She denied all knowl-
edge of it but was condemned to death,
Elizabeth signing her death warrant.
Through these long years of imprisonment
Mary Beaton remained her faithful compan-
ion. The time was passed in study and
needlework.
	Her last days were spent in Forthering-
hay Castle. On February 7, 1586, the
Lords of Shrewsbury and Kent presented
themselves before her and read the sentence
of execution, which was to take place the
following morning at eight o’clock. She
expressed surprise at the short time given
her, but commenced preparation at once.
She wrote several letters, made her will,
remembering each servant, and wishing she
could better repay their fidelity. She then
retired to her bed, arose early in the morn-
ing and spent some time in prayer, after
which she dressed with unusual care. She
wore a black satin dress with long sleeves
and train, while a black veil fell to her feet,
an ivory crucifix was suspended from her
neck When the sheriff came she accom-
panied him from the room, but requested
that some of the servants might witness
her last moments; her physician, steward
and two maids were allowed to accompany
her. In the hall of the Castle was arranged
a platform of about two feet in height;
Mary advanced with dignity to the edge
and was lifted by her steward to the stage,
where a seat was placed for her use. The
executioners came forward to ask her for-
giveness. She knelt and prayed for the
Church, the queen of England and for her
son; then tenderly took leave of her atten-
dants, who were overcome with grief. A
handkerchief was bound across her eyes,
and laying her head upon the block, with
the crucifix in her hands, she repeated soft-
ly, “In Thee O, Lord I have put my
trust.” So perished Mary Stuart in the
forty-sixth year of her age and the nine-
teenth of her captivity. We are apt to
look with disfavor upon those unfortunate
enough to meet with a succession of re-
verses; thinking perhaps, if not an inflic-
tion of Providence, it must be the result of
their blindness or folly. But I can see
only a woman, weak and erring it may be,
being only human, but kind and loving to
her friends, merciful and compassionate to
her enemies. We may now safely say
with the Archbishop of Burges who was
appointed to preach her funeral sermon in
Paris, “Marble and brass and iron decay,
or are devoured by rust, but in no age how-
ever long the world may endure, will the
memory of Mary Stuart, queen of Scotland
and Dowager of France, cease to be re-
garded with affectionate rememberance.”
						LOUIDE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


JUBILEE PRIZE COMPETITION.
	THE Semi-Centennial Commission offers
$200 cash in prizes as follows: First, $100
for the best poem on the subject of the
Pioneers or the Pioneer Jubilee, to consist
of not more than one hundred nor fewer
than fifty lines. All compositions to be
signed by an initial or a nom de plume, and
to be forwarded to the secretary of the com-
mission together with a separate envelope
containing the real name of the author,
not later than June 1, 1897,
	Second, $100 for the best musical com-
position in four parts with organ accompani-


ment to the following lines from a poem by
Bishop O. F. Whitney:
ODE TO THE PIONEERS.
Hail to the year of jubilee!
	Let pealing anthems rise,
And bursts of echoing melody
	Loud mingle with the skies!
Let earth resound with music’s power;
	Glad welcoming the year,
When Utah sees her natal hour
	The fiftieth time appear. * * * 
Far down the mystic river of the mind.
A fleet of recollections slowly wind,
A wreath of flowers from Fancy’s garden
	brought,
Historic views on memory’s canvas wrought.
* * * * 
Lo! issuing from the canyon’s rough defile,
Where frowns on either side a lofty pile,
A little band of sun-burnt mountaineers
Halt on the ridge—whose milder summit rears
The towering peaks and plain to intervene—
And gaze with wonder on the glorious scene.
Ah! marvel nothing if the eye may trace
The care lines on each toil-worn hero’s face;
Nor yet if down his cheek in silent show,
The trickling tides of tender feeling flow.

Would e’en the coldest heart forbear to say
Good cause had gratitude to weep that day?
Or censure for a flow of manly tears,
That brave-souled band—immortal Pioneers?
Their names? Go view them on the Golden
	Page,
The gift of glory to remotest age;
The van of civilization’s westward sweep,
The few that sowed what millions yet shall reap

	Composers to have the customary privi-
lege of rearranging or repeating the words.
Competitions to be forwarded to the secre-
tary not later than May 20, 1897, signed by
a nom de plume or an initial, and accom-
panied by a separate envelope containing
the real name of the composer. The ad-
judicators will be selected from competent
musicians outside of the State by whom
the names of the competitors will be un-
known.
	Both the poem and the composition to
be rendered at the reception to the Pioneers
in the Tabernacle, July 20, 1897. Both
competions to be limited to Utah poets and
musicians.
	For further particulars address,
			SPENCER CLAWSON,
							Chairman.


[Column 1]
ARE YOU GOING EAST THIS
SUMMER?
If so you will receive some valuable infor-
mation by calling upon or addressing L. J. 
Kyes, Ticket Agent U. P. Ry., No. 201
South Main Street. 

[Column 2]
NOTICE!
TO ALL WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
SILK CULTURE
IN THE STATE OF UTAH. 
	The Utah Silk Commission desires
all who wish to engage in this industry,
this year, to send at once their name and
full address for pamphlet of instructions,
also a statement of your facilities for
raising cocoons and the number of silk
worm eggs you desire. Address all com-
munications to Margaret A. Caine, Secre-
tary Utah Silk Commission, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	All county papers please copy.

[image of badge]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[beside the badge]
The
People’s
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chichaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City. Denver and Park City			7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver							7:00 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line. 
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City				3:10 p m.
"The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK, 
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON, 
		JOHN W. DOANE, 
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
					Receivers. 
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt. 
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent. 

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50  Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


MARY WAREHAM JACKSON.

	DIED, at her home in American Fork, Oct. 7,
1897, our beloved sister, Mary Wareham Jackson.
Sister Wareham was born Nov. 2, 1825 in York-
shire, England. Embrace the Gospel in Shef-
field, and emigrated to Utah in 1855 with her
husband, George Wareham. She has been a
teacher in the Relief Society from its first organ-
ization and filled her office with credit to herself
and satisfaction to her coworkers. In connection
with her husba d she entered into the principle
of Celestial marriage, and after his death was
married again to Brother W. W. Jackson, by
whom she had two sons, one of whom survives
her, also four grandchildren.
	She was a good neighbor, warm-hearted and
liberal, always on hand to assist a friend or help
the poor and needy. Her departure was sudden.


though having been sick for some time no one
seemed to think the end was so near, as her
faith in the priesthood was strong and she always
revived after the administration of the Elders.
Her testimony was unwavering, and she died as
she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint, and in
the sure hope or a glorious resurrection.
				MARY S. HINDLEY,
				JEMIMA DURRANT,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Committee.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.	145
VOL 25.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1897.						No22.


[Original text difficult to read due to reverse text from another page]

			CONTENTS

	Egypt—Julia A. Druce. Silk Worm Eggs—
M. A. Till. U. W. P. C.—Orielle Curtis, Sec.
Biographical Sketch—Louissa W. Jones. Con-
cert In Washington, D. C. An Interesting Trip
Della Fish. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam. A
Interesting Time—L. S. Wilcox. Ladies' Semi-
Monthly Meeting—Zina H. Bull, Sec.

	POETRY:—Memorial Hymn—Rebecca Palfry
Utter. One Year Ago—L. D. Adler.

	EDITORIAL:—Twenty-five Years. Editorial
Notes. Three Quarters Of A Century.


[Text difficult to read due to reversed text from another page]

		MEMORIAL HYMN.

	O God, our Heavenly Father,
		Through our country free
	A wordless army rises
		And lifts its voice to thee.
	No clasp of arms, no war-cry
		In all the peaceful throng;
	Our only arms are flowers,
		Our cry is prayer and song.
	
	We breathe the name of comrades
		Who, standing by our side,
	For union and for freedom
		So nobly fought and died.
	From toil and pain, and battle
		Well have they won rele[-]se;
	We give them love and honor;
		Thou givest rest and peace.

	Thou carest for the lilies;
		Thou seest sparrows fall;
	Some are by us forgotten,
		But Thou rememberest all.
	The lonely graves and nameless,
		Beyond the reach of ours,
	Thy hand of loving kindness
		Will crown today with flowers.
				REBECCA PALFREY UTTER.

May 30.


[Column 1]
			EGYPT.

READ BEFORE THE REAPER’S CLUB BY 
		MISS JULIA A DRUCE.
	SOME years after the reign of Misraim in
Egypt a ruler called Busiris built the fam-
ous city of Thebes and made it the seat of
his empire. This prince must not be con-
founded with the Busiris who was so in-
famous for his cruelties. Thebes was a
great city of Egypt but is now in ruins;
and its remains extend for many miles
along both banks of the Nile. Tradition 
says that it was first built by Misraim. It
is the oldest city in the world, and is situ-
ated in Upper Egypt, about 335 miles
southeast from Cairo. Thebes was also called
the great city of Jupiter. In it was found-
ed the first college, and the first palace for a
king. Its circumference was twenty-three
miles. It had one hundred gates, and was,
according to history, sufficiently populous
to send forth from each of these gates in
time of war, two hundred armed chariots
and ten thousand men. Thebes was laid
in ruins by the Persians under Cambyses,
in 525 B. C., and many of its noblest edi-

[Column 2]
fices and monuments were destroyed. For
nearly three thousand years the sand has
accumulated within it, burying some of the
largest monuments, and in some instances
hiding almost entire temples. ‘‘The ob-
server who first approaches Thebes sees
only a confused mass of vast obelisks,
portals and columns, towering above palm
trees; but a closer and longer inspection
awakens sensations of awe and astonish-
ment.” Among its temples the most re-
markable are those of the Palace—Temple
of Karnak; the Temple of Luxor; the
Memnonium; the tomb of Osymandias; and
the mountain, tombs or Catacombs of
Thebes—these latter are sometimes called
the Necropolis.—Karnak surpasses in its
grandeur all the others. It stands at the
southeastern extremity of the city, and its
name is derived from the village which has
sprung up on a portion of its site. The
French engineers—when Napoleon invaded
Egypt—were one hour and a half in riding
around it. "The temple itself is 1,200
feet in length, and its breadth is 420 feet.
It is approached by a long avenue of
enormous Sphynx—the largest in exist-
ence—and by a succession of gates and
colossal statues, constructed of different
stones and marbles. Two of the sculptured
obelisks are sixty-nine feet, and another is
ninety-one feet high. The portion that
was the chief hall, 159 feet in breadth and
318 feet long, has for the support of its
roof 134 grand columns, each seventy feet
high and eleven in diameter. All the
sculptured work has been colored and still
retains its brightness. The avenue of
Sphynx has now but fifty of its six hun-
dred still standing.’’
 	''The Temple of Luxor, especially when
viewed from the river which flowed through
the city, is a lovely sight. It stands in a
plain covered with palm trees and with
mountains stretching behind it. Beside
its portico stood two obelisks, each nearly
80 feet high and 32 feet in circumference,
composed of a single block  of beautiful
rose-colored, polished granite from the
quarries of Syene.” One of these obelisks
is now in Paris, France. It was taken
there in 1833 A. D., and erected in the
Place de la Concorde. ‘‘There were two
colossal seated statues, partially concealed
by the rising sand, each carved from a
single block of black granite. The propy-
lon, which is 200 feet high, contains stone
enough to build a cathedral. Inside it has
200 columns, varying in dimensions, most
of which are entire. All its apartments
are covered with sculptured work, executed
with extreme care and delicacy, this being
done as minute in parts as if it was the
work of a seal engraver. Here it is sup-
posed that Homer studied the sculptured
battle and triumphs to gain inspiration for
his most heroic strains.’’ The tomb of
Osymandias was, as the historian Diodor-
us informs us, at once a palace, a library
and a tomb. It was a mile and a quarter in
circumference and was adorned with sculp-
ture of the greatest excellence and splendor.
This tomb was partially destroyed by the
Persians when they invaded Egypt. Only

[Column 3]
the remains of two colossal figures indicate
now the spot on which it stood.
	Of the Catacombs in Egypt, those at
Thebes are considered the most remarka-
ble. They are the oldest that are known
and can be traced back for 4000 years.
These Catacombs are now nearly all of
them dismantled of their contents. “An
artist who visited them before they had
been completely dispoiled says, he discovered
some little chambers, and on the walls of
one were represented all kinds of arms,
such as coats of mail, bows, arrows, jave-
lins, sabres, helmets, etc. In another room
there was found a collection of household
utensils, such as chairs, chests of draw-
ers, beds, etc., all of exquisite form and
suitable to have graced the apartments of
luxury and wealth. Besides these there
were vases and other small articles. In
still another room was represented agricul-
ture, showing a man sowing grain by the
side of a canal; a field of corn reaped with
a sickle; and fields of rice with men watch-
ing them. In a fourth room was a figure
clothed in white, represented as playing on
a richly ornamented harp with eleven
strings."
	The city of Thebes lost its previous im-
portance soon after its revolt against
Ptolemy Lathyrus, and its subsequent cap-
ture by the Greeks B. C. 82, after a siege
of three years.
	Diodorus gives a very particular discrip-
tion of many magnificent edifices raised by
King Osymandyas, one of which was
adorned with sculptures and paintings of
exquisite beauty; representing his expedi-
tion against the Bactrians—a people of Asia—
whom he had invaded with four hundred
thousand foot soldiers, and twenty thou-
sand cavalry. “In another part of this
edifice was exhibited an assembly of the
judges, whose president wore on his breast
a picture of truth with her eyes shut, and
himself was surrounded with books. Not far
from hence was seen a magnificent library, 
the oldest mentioned in history.”
	The Mausoleum of this king displayed
uncommon splendor. It was encompassed
with a circle of gold, a cubit in breadth and
365 cubits in circumference, each cubit of
which showed the rising and setting of the
sun, moon and the other planets; for so
early as this king’s reign the Egyptians di-
vided the year into twelve months, each
consisting of thirty days, to which they
added every year five days and six hours.” 
	Menes, or Misraim built the city of
Memphis; and Uchoreus, one of the suc-
cessors of Osymandyas, is also said to have
built this city, which was situated at the
point of the Delta, in Lower Egypt. It
was the ancient capital of that country, and
was one hundred and fifty furlongs, or
more than seven leagues in circumference.
Southward from Memphis this latter king
raised a lofty mole or hill; and on the right 
and left he dug very deep moats to receive
the river. These were faced with stone,
and raised near the city by strong cause-
ways; the whole designed to secure the
place from inundations of the Nile, and in-
cursions of the enemy. A city so well


[Column 1]
situated and so strongly fortified—that it
was almost the Key of the Nile, and by this
means commanded the whole country—
soon became a usual residence of the Egyp-
tian kings; and remained so until Alexan-
dria was built, by Alexander the Great.
This city is situated 112 miles northwest
from Cairo; under the dynasty of the Ptolem-
ies the city made great progress. Alexan-
dria was the chief emporium for the com-
merce of India; and it also became at this
time the center of the sciences, such as
mathematics, astronomy etc. It contained
an immense library, the largest of antiquity,
chiefly collected by Ptolemy Soter and
Ptolemy Philadelphus, which consisted
of 700,000 volumes, about 400,000 of which
were destroyed by fire when Julius Caesar
was blockaded in the Greek part of the
city, during his war with the Alexandrians,
and the remaining volumes were destroyed
by Amron—the general of Caliph Omar, the
Saracen—A D. 640.
	After falling before the Roman arms
Alexandria scarcely lost any of its splendor;
but when conquered by the Caliphs, and
subjected to the Saracen yoke, it then be-
gan and continued to decline, until the dis-
covery of a passage to India by the Cape of
Good Hope in 1497, gave the final blow to
its importance and trade. Its chief ecclesi-
astical building is the Mosque of the Thou-
sand and One Pillars. This city was
founded 332 B. C., and Dinocrates, a cele-
brated architect, who rebuilt the temple of
Diana at Ephesus, was engaged to lay out
its plan. There are now very few remains
by which its ancient magnificence can be
recognized.
	One of the two obelisks known as Cleo-
patra’s Needles, was first acquired for Eng-
land by Sir Ralph Abercrombie in 1801, at
which time it had long been embedded in
the sand and mud of the shore. It was not
removed at that time, but was presented to
the British government by Mehemet Ali,
the first Khedive of Egypt, and again offer-
ed to them by the next Khedive in 1877.
It now stands on the Thames embankment
—England—between the Charing Cross
and Waterloo bridges, and was erected at
this place on the 12th of September, 1878.
Mr. John Dixon was entrusted with the
work of removing and seeing to the safe
transportation of this obelisk. The Eng-
lish Monolith, as well as the other one
which is in New York City, is of hard,
compact red granite, known as Theban
stone, which was obtained from the quar-
ries of Syene on the Nile.
	It is supposed that these Egyptian relics
were brought to Alexandria from some
ancient Egyptian temple, during Greek or
Roman rule, and are stated to have been
originally erected at Heliopolis about 1600
B. C., by the King Thothmes III., and as
amongst the hieroglyphics with which they
are covered, the names of Thothmes III., of
Rameses II., and of a still later king have
been deciphered upon one of them, it seems
probable that their true history and origin
has yet to be discovered; but we can be
sure that they date back to an early period 
of Egyptian history. The obelisk that
was standing at Alexandria when the Eng-
lish were removing theirs, was examined by
Mr. Dixon. This engineer thought he
could perhaps obtain information respecting
the time of its removal to Alexandria.
“After obtaining permission from the Khe-
dive, he took away considerable soil, sand
and debris, when he found that its buried
base was resting upon a construction of 

[Column 2]
rough masonry. At one corner was
seen a bronze crab with an inscription in
Greek and also in Latin on one of its claws.
The translation of these inscriptions—which
were both the same—was to the effect that
this obelisk had been erected or re-erected at
Alexandria in the reign of Augustus Cæsar,
21 B. C., by the engineer Pontius, and
placed before the Cæsareum, or, as it was
sometimes called, the Temple of Augustus
Caesar.” The obelisk—one of Cleopatra’s
Needles—that was presented by the Khe-
dive of Egypt to the United States, was
set up in Central Park, New York City, in
1881, A. D. 
	On what was formerly the Island of
Pharos in the Bay of Alexandria, but which
is now a peninsula, Ptolemy Soter and his 
successor, Ptolemy Philadelphus, built a
Pharos or lighthouse, which was considered
one of the seven wonders of the world. It
was constructed of white marble, and fires
were lighted on the top to warn travelers of
the difficult access to the bay. It could be
seen at a distance of one hundred miles.
The Pillar of Diocletian—better known
as “Pompey’s Pillar,’’—stands between
the city and Lake Mareotis; while the
Catacombs of Alexandria are at a distance
of about two miles from it, cut in the face
of a calcareous rock which fronts the Sea.
	When Amron, the Saracen general, took
possession of this city, he stated in a letter
to the Caliph, that he found in Alexandria
4000 palaces, 4000 baths, 40,000 Jews who
paid tribute, 400 royal circuses, and 12,000
gardeners who supplied the city with all
kinds of herbs, or vegetables in great plenty.
	On the 14th of June 1798, this city was
stormed by Napoleon Bonaparte and taken.
On the 21st of March 1801, at the battle
of Alexandria when the French under
Menou were defeated, Sir Ralph Aber-
crombie was mortally wounded; and on
the 28th of August following, the French
garrison yielded to the British, under the
command of General Hutchinson. 
				JULIA A. DRUCE.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
SILK WORM EGGS.

	CAN be obtained at the Utah Woman’s
Silk Commission Salt Lake City upon ap-
plication to Mrs. Margaret A. Caine. The
Legislature appropriated $3000 for the
silk industry in this State, which should
call forth our best energies in this direction
as it is a profitable industry in which wo-
men and children can engage and also
make very remunerative. The time is now
upon us, the mulberry is leafing out and I
hope all those wishing to engage in this
business will see to it at once and provide
suitable places for the hatching of the
worms. I believe it would be beneficial for
ladies to co-operate and work in a syste-
matic and business manner, thereby insur-
ing a greater success—probably some one
could offer a suitable and convenient place
to be used as a cocoonery for hatching the
worms, and likewise supervise it, while
young people could gather, prepare and
furnish the leaves for feeding, which must
be done regularly and promptly. The
work is not laborious and when engaged in
becomes a delight as one’s interest is called
out in watching the progress and develop-
ment of some of the creatures of God. One
of the main things to be considered is the
evenness of temperature and the leaves ten-
der and of the proper moisture. There are
pamphlets furnished free with full and suf-
ficient instructions for the successful raising

[Column 2]
of silk—so any one can go right to work 
and with proper attention, be well 
repaid for the labor or the time they give.
	A reeler is employed by the State to
teach the art of reeling which is not difficult
and can be and has been done upon the
old-fashioned spinning wheels; but reeling
and not spinning is desired. A twenty-
five cent bounty is given on each pound of
good cocoons, and the reeling is performed
where one hundred pounds are raised; this
industry with method and attention for six
weeks can be made quite lucrative. A
club of ladies in Springville last year made a
grand success and feel very much encouraged.
What is there to hinder other ladies doing
so? I would say profit by their example,
take this as an incentive and “go thou and
do likewise.” Do not let a lack of energy 
be a stumbling block to you but arise and
follow out the counsel of the Prophet Brig-
ham Young; he gave a great impetus to 
this industry and expended thousands of
dollars upon it. 
	A Mrs. Dunyon and her family insix
weeks raised seven hundred pounds of
cocoons and this County paid two dollars
per pound for a large growth of cocoons,
and we sent some to Washington, D. C.
and received $1.25 per pound for them,
Congress furnishing free labels for trans-
portation. By having your cocoons reeled
up, you thus have your silk in a market-
able condition which will net you a nice
sum, or it can be woven into dress goods
of which you could be justly proud.
Home manufacture is the watchword now
as heretofore and whereby a nation can be-
come independant. We expect to see this
enterprise fully established; the climate is
nowhere better adapted for the cultivation
of silk.
	The Japanese have proven and acknowl-
edge this, our native silk is pronounced by
experts to be of the best texture. The
loom belonging to our Association was
woven upon at the World’s, as well as our
own Territorial Fair. We have fabric on
hand all silk and have sold four dress pat-
terns, poplin, woolen warp with native
silk filling. Our Silk Flag woven Kersey
14x8 is made entirely of native silk; but
we should go on to greater success and per-
fection. All that we need is proper machin-
ery to work up and give lustre to our silk,
and I am sanguine that means will be
forthcoming to this end. Speed the day is
the desire of, 
					M. A. TILL,
President Utah Co. Silk Association.


THE Princess of Wales has written to the
Lord Mayor of London, pointing out that
in the schemes to commemorate Queen
Victoria’s diamond jubilee, the poorest of
the poor, the tenants of the London slums,
have been overlooked. She says: “Might 
I plead that, they also shall have, a share in
the fetes of that blessed day, and so remem-
ber to the end of their lives that great and
good queen whose reign, by the blessing 
of God, has been prolonged for sixty years?
Let us, therefore, provide these unfortunate
ones, these beggars and outcasts, with a
dinner or some substantial meal during the
week of the jubilee commemoration. I
have great pleasure in heading a subscrip-
tion list for the purpose with £100.”
	CHICAGO University has received from
Mrs. Mary Esther Reynolds a gift of
$225,000.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONE YEAR AGO.

I.
“Come spend with me this happy day,
	For I’m again a bride;
And through the changing scenes of life
	We still stand side by side;
We still clasp hands as long ago,
	When youthful dreams were ours
And Life seemed one long holiday,
	To spent ’mid leafy bowers.
Come, come my friends who love me,
	Come comrades of the Past,
And spend with me this joyous day,
	For O, it chance may be the last,
For backward as I gaze and think
	I see the road is long,
Since sixty years ago today,
	We pledged our vows ’mid solemn song.”
II
Yes it was a gladsome scene,
	To see you dear, a happy bride.
A youthful look upon your face,
	Your bridegroom by your side;
The frosts of Time had lightly touched,
	Your hands that were so fair,
But threads of gray were braided in,
	Among your once dark hair,
Proud sons and daughters stood around,
	Your earthly bliss to crown,
And deeper were your joys that day,
	Than when your hair was brown.
III.
“One Year Ago!” All things are changed,
	Though my bridal day again has come;
For o’er Life’s portal you have crossed,
	And I sit today alone.
I reach my hand to yours, my love,
	As I did a year ago,
But I cannot feel your answering clasp,
	That always thrilled me so,
No, you are gone and I am left,
	Ah, it were better so,
The groom must fit the wedding nest,
	For his loving bride to go.
And so I wait the wedding feast,
	As in the Long Ago,
When we pledged our lives forever,
	Though ages come and go.
And I am still your loving bride.
	Though you so weary grown,
Are resting now on the hillside
	Beneath a gray white stone.
IV
But our wedding day will come again,
	Never more to wane;
And soon your hand will close o’er mine,
	To never part again.
I hear the song-birds singing
	Among the leafy bowers,
And a fragrance rare fills the balmy air,
	From the many dainty flowers.
It is our garden plot of “Home,”
	Where you by the wicket gate,
Keep watch for the loved who tarry long—
	For the evening groweth late.
Again I come a youthful bride,
	To the kingdom you have made for me,
And see! I bring our children too, dear,
	To keep through all eternity.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	A tender thought of my friend, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne.
	May 9, 1897.


U. W. P. C.

	THE U. W. P. C. held its regular
meeting April 30, 1897, at the office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. President Fox
called the meeting to order at 8 p. m.


After prayer by Mrs. Lydia Alder, the roll
was called members responding with orig-
inal sentiments. Minutes of last meeting
were read and approved.
	Under the head of business was an in-
formal discussion in regard to change of
time of annual meeting of Federation of
clubs. At the request of the Federation
Entertainment committee the names of
those who will assist in entertaining Feder-
ation guests were given. Mrs. Dickinson
being unable to act as delegate from the
Press Club, Dr. Curtis was appointed in
her place. Resignation of Miss S. L.
Munroe as a member of the club was read
and accepted.
	Program of the evening:—“Life of Lin-
coln,” Mrs. Phebe C. Young. ‘‘Social
Life in Washington,” Mrs. Brown.
	The next meeting of the club will be
May 29, 8 p. m. at usual place. The war
between Greece and Turkey will be the
topic for discussion. Sentiments from
N. P. Willis.
		ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec’y.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

SISTER RUTH WELTON TYLER
	WHO departed this life April 14, 1897,
after an illness of only three days.
	She was the daughter of Asa and Clarissa
Norton Welton; was born in Spafford,
Onondaga Co., New York, February 25,
1820, and was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the 
same place, January 1832, by Elder Jared
Carter. She was the first of her family to
embrace the Gospel. She moved to Kirt-
land, Ohio with her parents in 1834 or
1835. She was married to her life-long 
companion, Daniel Tyler, September 11,
1836, and emigrated to Far West, Caldwell
Co., Mo., arriving August 3, 1837; was 
expelled from that place under the extermi-
nating order of Governor Lilburn W.
Boggs, February 13, 1839. She went to
Illinois where her daughter, the late Parin-
tha O. Oakden, was born June 4, of the 
same year. Moved to Nauvoo about 1842
where she became a member of the first Re-
lief Society organized by Joseph Smith,
the Prophet. With her little family she
was expelled from Nauvoo in the spring of 
1846. Afterwards left on the road in an
Indian country while her husband enlisted
in the Mormon Battalion and went to fight
the battles of his country. Another child
was born to her in that place. After the
Battalion was disbanded her husband re-
turned for her, and they arrived in Salt
Lake Valley November 18, 1848. She
was called with her husband to Dixie in
1862, where they suffered all the privations
and sickness from chills and fever incident
to settling that country. They were re-
leased and called to Beaver in the spring
of 1866, where she resided until her death. 
	Brother Tyler has filled various missions
during which Sister Tyler mainly support-
ed her family by her own labor. She
joined the Relief Society when it was first
organized in Beaver. Soon after she be-
came a teacher, subsequently counselor to
two presidents. June 16, 1876, she was
chosen president, which office she held for
several years. Again December 6, 1886, 
she was chosen president and faithfully ful-
filled the duties of that office until she was
released to take the position of President of
the Relief Society of Beaver Stake, March
5, 1897.

[Column 2]
	During her presidency of the Relief Soci-
ety two rock buildings were erected, one a
hall and store, the other a granary capable
of holding about eight thousand bushels of
grain; the latter building costing sixteen
hundred dollars.
	Impressions she received in early life
caused her to be religiously inclined.
When she was only five years old her 
mother was taken very sick. The little
Ruth went by herself and prayed that her
mother might get well. Her prayer was
answered, her mother recovering almost
immediately. At nine years of age she
joined the Methodist church, but would not
receive baptism unless she could be im-
mersed. After considerable discussion she
carried the point, and was baptized by im-
mersion, although it was contrary to the 
general practice in that church at that
time.
	She was the mother of fourteen children,
only three of whom survive her. She was
an active public worker, one who was ready 
and willing to respond to every call; her
whole soul was in the work from the time
she was baptized until the day of her death.
A devoted mother and faithful companion,
a friend to the needy, comforting the sick
and administering to their necessities.
She was faithful in this life and has gone to
receive the reward of the righteous.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Adopted by the officers and members of the
Beaver ward Relief Society.
	WHEREAS, It has p eased God to ca l from our
midst our beloved president and co-worker, Sis-
ter Ruth Tyler; therefore be i
	RESOLVED, That we deeply mourn her
loss, and most sincerely sympathize with
her family and friends and ask God to comfort
them.
	RESOLVED, That her death has caused a vacan-
cy we know not how to fill; but we realize that
our loss is her gain, [-]nd that God doeth all things
well, and that [-]e must be resigned to His will.
	RESOLVED, That a copy f this sketch and
resolutions be placed upon our record book, one
given to the bereaved family, and one sent to the 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

Gone from our midst, our sister, friend, departed,
	Deep in our hearts we feel the sad, sad pain;
We’ll ne’er forget her, true and noblehearted,
	But cherish we the hope to meet again.

Gone from our midst, but memory serves to
	lighten
	Grief that is fervent, for her ki dly life–
Emblem of goodness; seemed to ever brighten
	Scenes of affliction, woe, or angry strife.

Gone from our midst, this life will no more greet
	her,
	But in her home in heavenly glory land,
She is rejoicin ’mid the loved who meet her,
	Resting in peace among the angel band.
			JANE BICKLEY, President.
			LOUISSA W. JONES, Secretary.


GRAND EXCURSION EAST VIA
UNION PACIFIC SYSTEM

	Round trip tickets on sale June 5, 6 and
7, good for return until Sep. 5th as follows:
Kansas City, Leavenworth, St. Joseph,
Omaha, Sioux City and return		$30.00
St. Louis and return				37.50
Chicago and return					42.50
	Only line operating through equipment to
above points consisting of Pullman Palace
and Tourist Sleepers, Dining Cars, Buffet
Smoking and Library Cars, Free Reclining
Chair Cars. Twelve hours quickest time
to Chicago. Call at 201 Main St. for fur-
her information.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY MAY 15, 1897


TWENTY-FIVE YEARS.

	OUR readers and patrons will remember
perhaps that this issue of the EXPONENT
completes the twenty-fifth year of this
little periodical. One quarter of a century
since the paper was established and during
that time how much has transpired here
and elsewhere, and how many important
events and incidents have been recorded in
the volumes published since June 1, 1872,
the date of its establishment. Many of
those who were anxious to have a woman’s
paper here in Zion have passed away and
 are no longer known among us, another
generation has taken their places and yet
their counsel, their words live still in the
remembrance of those who knew
them personally. Had the people followed
the advice of President Brigham Young
through whose wise counsel this paper as
well as many other home enterprises were
started, this state and the people as a whole
would have been much more prosperous
and independent than they are at the present
time.
	President Young was very anxious the
women of Utah should have a paper of
their own in which to express their views
and opinions on all subjects relating to wo-
man’s progression, higher education and
advancement along all lines that would
tend to correct evil, to uplift the fallen, to
support the best methods of dealing with all
practical questions pertaining to humanity.
   We do not care to repeat what we have
often said before that there are many things
the women of Utah have done, which
never would have been so successfully ac-
complished had it not been for the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT as a reference and to
collect material from. We need this paper
now to further home interests particularly
and especially the silk industry, which lan-
guishes for the lack of enterprise and reliable
information in regard to what is being done
from time to time. Without going into de-
tails it seems to the writer that for the wo-
men of this state not to maintain, a wo-
man’s paper, would be not only a hind-
rance to progress but a positive calamity.
Brigham Young strongly urged upon the
women of Utah to take this paper, to read it
and to keep it, as it would be a record of
woman’s work and of their history; and
we are most anxious that all who feel an
interest in the growth of sentiment in favor
of home protection, home interests and in-
dustries should help by their subscriptions,
patronage and influence to maintain a paper,


that has done and is doing so much to help
women in organization and in everything
tending to the higher elements of life,
moral, spiritual, industrial and educational.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. CHARLES HENROTIN of Chicago, 
President of the Woman’s Clubs. is ex-
pected to attend the meeting of the State
Federation of Clubs, and will probably
make an address on Wednesday evening
May 26,—Mrs. Platt, Mrs. Thather and
Mrs. Gale of Denver will also be present and
they also will address the Federation.
	THE Annual Convention of the State
Federation of clubs will be held May 26
and 27 in the Congregational Church, corner
1st South and 4th East in this city, Mrs.
Martha B. Jennings President. Meetings
will commence 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. and
on Thursday evening, May 27, at 8 o’clock
there will be a reception at the residencee of
Mrs. W. A. Nelden, 1145 E. First South.
Papers by women of literary culture will be
given and questions of importance to club
women as well as to the public will be dis-
cussed. It is hopefully expected that it
will be interesting and instructing in the
best sense of the word.
	THE Hall of Relics to be erected immedi-
ately on the dear old Council House corner
will be a great improvement to the appear-
ance of the locality. The place is con-
spicuous and will give a good opportunity
for display. The plans were drawn by
Dallas and Hedges and the building will
be a reproduction of the famous temple of
Zenus at Olympia, and if the plan is car-
ried out will be “a thing of beauty” as
the Corinthian columns will give an ap-
pearance of strength and the Greek style
in building is the admiration of all lovers
of art in architecture. The outside is to be
dazzlingly white, while the inside will be
decorated in the high colors of the Jubilee.
Then the pedestal in front of the building
will be a reproduction of Dallin’s "Signal
of Peace,” the same as that which appear-
ed at the World’s Fair in Chicago; this is
appropriate too as Dallin was Utah born
and of course the State may claim some
honor of his achievements.


[Column 1]
THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTRUY.

BATHSHEBA W. SMlTH.
	WE do not hesitate to speak of Sister
Bathsheba as one of the most eminent wo-
men in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and also as one of the
most exemplary. It is something to be
thankful for to have lived so many years,
and to be able to look back upon the record
one has made and feel almost, if not quite
satisfied with one’s life work.
	Sister Smith’s seventy-fifth birthday
anniversary was celebrated at the residence
of her eldest grand-daughter, Mrs. D. R.
Allen, in Forest Dale on Monday, May
3. About seventy-five invited guests were
present, most of them relatives of the
honored lady. She was handsomely dressed
in black silk with elegant real lace, and
wore roses and white carnations; she has a
commanding figure and on this occasion
looked every inch a queen. Sister Smith
has had a happy life as she herself testifies
notwithstanding the persecutions and hard

[Column 2]
ships the saints have had to endure of
which she had a share. She married when
quite a girl in her teens, George A. Smith,
cousin of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
they were always devoted lovers to the
time of his death. They accepted
the principle of plural marriage, and
made a success of its practise.
	Sister Smith’s maiden name was Bigler
and she was born and grew to womanhood
in West Virginia, and has always retained
her love for the South, its customs and its
people. In her youth she was a famous
equestrienne, accounting it as one of her
valued accomplishments.
	The greatest sorrow of her life was the
untimely death of her only son who was
killed by the Indians in Southern Utah
and his body was never recovered. She
bore this great affliction with the heroic
fortitude and sublimity of a Saint, never
repining or murmuring, but calm and
patient, believing that her Father in heaven
knew what was best.
	At the time of the decease of her noble
husband, she felt she too must die, but
when he expressed a wish that she should
live to bear testimony of the truth and of
the mission of Joseph the Prophet, she felt
determined to carry out his counsel. She
has been a careful, patient and devoted
housewife, and has had many opportunities
of practicing the strictest economy. Ac-
cording to Scripture "She seeketh wool and
flax and worketh willingly with her hands.”
	In the primitive days here she did a great
deal of spinning, dyeing and weaving, and
clothed her household with her own handi-
work. Time or space will not permit us
to tell of her many virtues and her industry,
nor of her travelings and journeyings, but
we can truthfully say she has been favored
of the Lord, and that she is deserving of
the many precious privileges and honors
she has received.
	On this special occasion she was the re-
cipient of many floral offerings and of
other gifts of dear friends, which we are
sure she appreciated because of the sisterly
love, friendliness and esteem of which they
were only a trifling expression.
	Sister Smith is second Vice-President
in the National Woman’s Relief Society,
an organization that extends around the
world, and she has occupied various other
positions of honor and trust among women.
At present she officiates in the Salt Lake
Temple, a position for which she is admir-
ably well fitted.
	Apostle John Henry Smith made the ad-
dress of welcome at the birthday celebra-
tion and certainly was eloquent and de-
lightfully happy in his speech. He paid a
high tribute of praise to the one we had
assembled to honor, as a true woman
mother and friend, and a mother in Israel
and a noble example to the Daughters of
Zion; his remarks were followed by the let-
ter given here.
SALT LAKE CITY, April 3, 1897
	My Dear Aunt Bathsheba:
	For some time I have been doting upon at-
tending the reunion of loved ones, kindred and
friends in honor of the seventy-fifth anniversary
of your birth, but Providence has willed it other-
wise; orrather, my physical condition is such that
prudence and the counsel of Dr. Richards will
prevent me from doing so.
	I therefore take this method of expressing re-
grets for my deprivation, and most earnest desire
for the happiness of all who shall gather around
you this evening to do honor to the loved and
worthy object of their affections, in cherished


[Column 1]
memory of, and in gratitude for your auspicious,
natal day.
	Your life has been one of constant energy,
fraught with toil and sacrifice of personal comfort,
and mixed with plentiful sorrow. Along its way
are strewn the personal remains of a darling son,
cut down in his very youth by ruthless savage
hands; of a beloved and loving and honored
husband, who untimely fell beneath the over-
whelming weight of multiplied responsibilities, in
the very midday of an eventful, noble, useful,
wellnigh indispensable life; and of the martyred
brothers and kinsman of your lamented husband
—whose martyrdom sealed their testimony to the
divine and deathless truth which lies at the 
foundation of the cause of Zion, for which you have
endured so much. And yet, your life has been
full of good works, and true womanly deeds,
with real Christian patience, and with love divine, 
the crowning virtues of a well spent, virtuous,
generous life.
	I regard you as a most worthy companion of a 
most noble man—one of the anointed and
chosen of God.
	In this and in the assurance your knowledge of
the Gospel gives—of an eternal companionship
with him, and a glorious reunion with the great-
est spirits of the greatest epoch of the world, and 
association with Christ and God the Father of all
—in the worlds to come you have the surest
promise of most glorious rewards, which so far 
outweigh the deepest trials of this life that they
will be forgotten, or, if remembered at all, only
as the purifying flames of the furnace which help
to consume the dross and purify the gold.
	Aunt Bathsheba, we wish you many, very
many most happy returns of this day. Not only 
this, but that every day between shall be full of
peace and joy and honor to you and yours.
	You have our confidence, our prayers, our love.
We know you to be worthy of all, and more than
we can give, or offer you: and all is yours; we
feel that you have made your calling and election
sure.
	God bless you in this world with health, judg-
ment, peace, joy and plenty, and in the world to
come with all that has been promised you, and
more, are the sincere desires of your affectionate
kinsman and, I trust, unfailing friend, 
					JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	After the reading of President Smith’s let-
ter Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, granddaughter
of Sister Smith, gave a brief sketch of her
grandmother, giving interesting experiences
from her early life and also her connection
and association with the Church up to the 
present time. Among other notable things
we were particularly struck with the
amount of homemade cloth made by this
diligent housewife, wool carded, spun,
colored and woven—and cut and made into
wearing apparel, also flax and so much of
it, that the story seems incredible to those
who live in this later day. To create from
the raw material suitable clothing seems a
desirable handicraft, and we look back with 
admiration upon the heroic women who
had the sublime courage to overcome ob-
stacles, and meet the emergencies of pion-
eer days in a new land far from civilization.
	A synopsis of Sister Smith’s work in
women’s organizations, beginning with
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, by Mrs. 
Clarissa Smith Williams also a daughter of 
President George A. Smith. Sister B. W.
Smith was one of the original members of 
the Relief Society and was present when it
was organized on the 17th of March 1842, in
the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, Illinois, and
she has held different offices in the Society
since that time. At present she is second
Vice-President to the President, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, and Treasurer of the same
Society in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	Then followed the charming address
from her only daughter, Mrs. Bathsheba
Smith Merrill.
MOTHER.
 	If there is one mortal feeling free from 
the impurities of earthly faith, that tells in

[Column 2]
every breath of its celestial origin it is a
mother’s love.
	Mother is our helper, adviser- listening
to tales of fancied wrongs and sorrows.
	Mother—’tis the first half formed word
that falls from the babbling tongue: The
first, the fondest and the most lasting tie in
which affection can bind the heart. A
mother’s love. Forever the same, un-
changeable.
	A pure and holy gift from heaven.
Mother’s love soothes with sympathy.
What a comfort it was to feel her sympathy
for my near sightedness. How patiently
and tenderly she lightened my misfortune,
anticipating every wish, attending to all
my needs, soothing every sorrow.
	She cradles us in her warm, faithful
breast and there is a healing influence in
her embrace.
	When at home or absent from her side I
know her thoughts were ever concerned in
my welfare, and also the welfare of my
children.
	Every day I appreciate more the bless-
ing of a fond and noble mother. She has 
been a mother not only to her own off-
spring and her husband’s children, but to 
her sisters and brothers children. Yes a 
mother in Israel! And we all love, re-
spect and reverence her.
	She has trodden the narrow path and
now reaches the landmark—her seventyfifth
birthday, and we feel that we cannot do
enough to show our love and appreciation
of her. She is unsurpassed on this earth-
	A mother’s love, how sweet the name,
		What is a mother's love?
	A noble, pure and tender flame,
		Enkindled from above.
			BATHSHEBA SMITH MERRILL.
	After the program had been rendered
there were short speeches congratulatory
and affectionate, one by Mrs. Julina L.
Smith was distinctively tender and brought
tears to the eyes of many of those who
heard it. Sister Julina is the niece of Sis-
ter Bathsheba and had spent many years
of her young life with her aunt, so that to
her she is a second mother.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke very
eloquently of her intimate association with
Sister Smith. Other speakers were Sister
Emily P. Young and Sister E. B.
Wells, Brother John R. Winder and
Patriarch John Smith, who touched upon
his early remembrances of the lady in
whose honor we had met together, which
were quite in keeping with the occasion.
Sister Smith responded (to the invitation of
Apostle John Henry Smith) in a graceful
and appropriate way, expressing her sincere
love to all who had in any way contributed
to her happines on this day—and referred
to the numerous circle of relatives and
friends who could not participate in the
affair, bore testimony of the divine mission
of Joseph Smith and her firm belief in all
he taught; alluded lovingly to her hus-
band’s patriarchal family and made many
suggestive remarks that will be remembered
by her young friends in years to come.
	The party joined in singing “Hard
times come again no more,” and Miss Pris-
cella Smith gave a very pleasing recitation
entitled “The Barber and the Stuffed
Owl.” Delicious refreshments were served
tastefully and bountifully by loving hands,
during which time social conversation was
indulged in, and soon after as daylight was
merging into twilight, the guests who

[Column 3]
lived at a distance began to say their
adieux. In the evening there was a liter-
ary and musical program with which to
wind up a very happy day.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations
and good wishes to Sister Smith. Words
are inadequate to express the desire we
have for her future welfare and prosperity.
The beautiful work she performs in the 
Temple, and added to that the philan-
thropic and charitable labor in the Relief
Society are indeed appropriate for one who
has lived so long, and passed through so
many sanctifying experiences.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONCERT IN WASHINGTON, D. C.
	VIOLA PRATT, one of our Utah girls
and sweet singers, was selected from
among a number of other vocalists to sing
at President and Mrs. McKinley’s concert
in Washington, given in honor of the 
Russian Ambassador.  It was on the birth-
day anniversary of the Austrian Ambassa-
dor’s wife.  Viola Pratt, it will be remem-
bered by our readers, is the grand daughter
of the late Apostle Orson Pratt on the
paternal side and of Apostle Charles C.
Rich on the maternal side.  Utah has
every reason to be proud of her attainment
as a vocalist and there is no doubt a bril-
liant future in store for her.  Below is an
extract from a letter to her parents.—Editor
	“*** Now I must tell you about the
concert given by President and Mrs.
McKinley and the cabinet in honor of the
Austrian Ambassador.  It was a very
select affair, three hundred invitations being
issued to the Senators etc. Huberman, the
wonderful boy violinist, was there, and so
was Scharvenka the pianist, and I was fortu-
nate enough to be the soloist.  Everything
was perfectly glorious !  I was treated like
a queen.  President and Mrs. McKinley,
lots of the Senators, and all the diplomatic
corps were there.  The concert was very
fine and I was highly complimented on my
singing and the papers spoke very nicely of
me.  The next morning after the concert,
there came to my hotel a small package and
a note from the wife of the Austrian
Ambassador, asking me to accept the en-
closed as a token of her “esteem and love
and appreciation of the pleasure she had re-
ceived through my beautiful singing.’’  I
opened it and was indeed delighted to find
a very handsome gold bracelet with the
date of the concert engraved on the inside.
	About nine o’clock she sent her lovely
carriage around to the hotel and gave me a
lovely drive all over Washington.
	At noon I had luncheon at the White
House.  Mrs. McKinley is a very sweet,
lovely woman, but so delicate and frail.


AN INTERESTING TRIP. 

Editor Exponent:

	THINKING the work of the Relief Soci-
ety in Snowflake Stake ought to be occa-
sionally represented in your columns, I
take pleasure in penning the following re-
tort of a recent visit to the branches of the
pociety in the forest. 
	Our party consisted of Stake President
Emma S. Smith, Vice-President Sarah
Driggs and Mary J. West the Secretary,
and Joseph Robinson as driver. Sending
our appointments ahead we lelt home the
22nd of April to fill them.


[Column 1]
Our first appointment was at Pinedale,
eighteen miles from Snowflake. Arizona
is noted for its windy days but this was one
of the very worst. The wind blew direct-
ly in our faces making it disagreeable for
us and hard pulling for the horses.
	Meeting was to begin at 2 o’clock so we
drove to Mrs. Dalton’s where the sisters
were already assembling. Mrs. Brewer
had prepared dinner for us but when she
saw we were late she concluded we had
dined somewhere else and so came on to
meeting. The house was as clean as
whitewash and scrubbing brushes could
make it, but when Mrs. Dalton found out
how cold we were she removed her fire-
board and soon had a blazing fire, before
which we gradually thawed out. In the
meantime Sister Brewer discovered that we
were hungry as well as cold, and brought
us some warm dinner. After having eaten
quite heartily we felt more like mission-
aries and proceeded with the meeting.
	The organization there was quite complete
and the sisters seemed to be alive to their
duties. They are starting a LITTLE STORE
which they hope will aid them financially.
A baby was taken seriously ill during the
meeting, and prayers were offered for the
little sufferer which we feel our Father in
heaven has deigned to answer.
	After meeting we drove over to Bishop
Peterson’s which is a mile and a half from
the town. Here we were very kindly
entertained by Sister Peterson.
	Besides Relief Society work we were de-
sirous of doing something in regard to wo-
man’s suffrage as well, and with this ob-
ject in view held a meeting in the evening.
	Bishop Peterson was feeling very poorly
still he treated us with great consideration
and seemed pleased with our visit.
	The next morning after breakfast we 
started for Linden six miles distant, our 
appointment being for 10 a. m. The ride
through the tall pines was extremely
pleasant, but notwithstanding that fact it
seemed a very long six miles. The reason
became evident as we neared the town 
which proved to be Adair and not Linden,
which thus lengthened our drive into 
twelve miles. We had taken the wrong 
road.
	The word that we were coming had not
been circulated so we concluded to visit
that Society on our return and drove on to
Woodland, a distance of sixteen miles.
	This quiet little nook is pleasantly
located among the pines. The farmers de-
pend upon the rainfall to moisten their 
land which we were told is very fertile.
We stopped with Bishop Hansen and he
caused us to open our eyes in astonishment
when he told of the great amount of vege-
tables he raised last year, his son he said,
was equally successful with wheat. Even
lucern does well there although it requires
so much water. There are good facilities
for reservoirs and the people think the out-
look for the future is very good.
	As our party was large some of us were
invited to sleep at other places. The Bishop
kindly proffered to act as guide saying that
two blocks away we would find accommo-
dation. Before reaching the place des-
ignated, Sister West grew very weary and
remarked, “Why Bishop I understood you
to say it was only two blocks to your son’s
house.” “So I did,” he replied, “two
forty acre blocks.”
	The next day we held meeting in the
school room at 10 a. m. A Relief Society

[Column 2]
was organized and every one made a few
remarks. The Bishop, who by the way, is
amiable and good as a man can well be,
was present and Sister Smith was led to
prophecy many grand things concerning
him. If the good spirit ever flowed freely
in a meeting it certainly did in this one,
and it was indeed a spiritual feast.
	Two miles from Woodlands is Pinetop
where we were due at 3 o’clock, but oh,
how we were shaken before we reached
there! The road was rough and the over-
hanging boughs came nearly taking off the
carriage cover.
	Pinetop is a larger place than we ex-
pected to find, still it does not rival New
York. There are several families living
there who do not belong to the Church, but
we found a number of sisters who appeared
to be firm in the faith. Their president
had moved away and they desired a re-
organization. This was accomplished with
apparent satiefication to all. Sister West
gave a model sermon to beginners in the
work, and timely instructions were added
by Sisters Smith and Driggs.
	Leaving there as soon as meeting was
over we next wended our way to Ellsworth.
If we had been shaken while going to Pine-
top, we were re-shaken while leaving there,
although part of the way was very fine.
	It was after dark when we reached our
destination, but Mrs. Mary A. Ellsworth
had a fire in her cozy sitting room and such
a nice supper prepared that we thought
traveling was not so bad after all. Our
hostess had a presentiment that we would
be tired, and with her usual thoughtful-
ness for others, had invited the sisters to
meet at her home and save us the long
walk.
	The organization there was complete and
the sisters doing as well as they could un-
der the circumstances.
	The next morning we visited the Sab-
bath School, then took dinner with Mrs.
Nellie Merrell whose house was as neat as
the one we had just left, and immediately
started to Adair where we arrived at 2
o’clock. Our faces and wraps were cover-
ed with dust but we converted our handker-
chiefs into brushes, and after using them
vigorously for a few moments went into
meeting. After the sacrament was admin-
istered the time was given to our party
who recovered from their astonishment
sufficiently to make the meeting a very
interesting one. Here also we found the
organization complete, but as the houses
are very much scattered it is difficult for
the sisters to meet except in pleasant
weather.
	In the evening we held a suffrage meet-
ing which was well attended. We were
hospitably entertained by Sister Brady un-
til the next morning.
	As we had missed Linden going up we
concluded to try once more to find it. As
before we took the wrong road but were
overtaken by a boy who directed us to the
right one, where we jogged along merrily
enough until we reached the place. This
was our last meeting but by no means the
least as far as the pleasure went. The sis-
ters were all feeling well in the Gospel.
One or two officers were needed, which
were promptly voted in and valuable in-
structions were given by Sister Smith and
ourselves. Sister Driggs dwelt especially
upon punctuality in whatever we under-
take.
	The meeting over we were invited to dif-

[Column 3]
ferent places to dinner, and came away
with a good opinion of Linden cooks. It
was raining when we left but it soon clear-
ed up and we reached home in safety, find-
ing all well.
	We had been gone five days, traveled
nearly one hundred miles and held nine
meetings. We feel very grateful indeed
for the good feeling with which we were
everywhere received, and trust our friends
will be amply repaid for their kindness
to us. 
	Whether any good seed was sown re-
mains to be seen, but of this we are confi-
dent that the blessings of the Lord were
showered abundantly upon us during our
absence.
		DELLA FISH, Stake Sec., R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Utah Stake con-
vened at American Fork, April 30, 1897,
President Mary John presiding. Sister E.
B. Wells and L. John Nuttall were on the
stand, visitors with the presiding officers.
Meeting opened by singing “Joy to the
world;” prayer by Brother Nuttall; sing-
ing “Arise, arise with joy survey;” min-
utes of last conference read and approved.
	President Mary John was pleased to
meet with the sisters and to see so full an
attendance. “We have many things to
lay before you, and have special visitors.”
Felt we should have a time of rejoicing to-
gether and desired the Spirit of the Lord to
assist us.
	Sister Elizabeth Giles, First ward Provo,
said their ward was united, they relieved
the wants of the needy. Sister Marsh,
President Alpine, said “We are few in
number but the sisters respond to the calls
cheerfully.”
	Sister Wadley, President Pleasant Grove
Third ward, said “We meet semi-monthly
and in various parts of the ward, whereby
we get a better attendance. We gather
storage wheat, and make and sell quilts to
have cash in the treasury.”
	Sister Houtz, Fourth ward Springville,
said “We are doing comparatively well
but not so well as we might. We made a
carpet for our ward house and laid it; we
are getting up a Fair to help build and ex-
pect the ward to help us build; afterwards
we shall gather wheat. We should work
in the silk indnstry and help make it a suc-
cess." 
	Sister M. A. Till, President Utah Silk
Association, encouraged the sisters to take
a greater interest in producing silk. Told
of her visit to the Republican Radies Silk
Club in Springville, of their satisfactory
success the first year’s trial, and how sys-
tematically they conducted all the details
of their club. Said Miss Pyper, of Salt
Lake City, who is employed by the State,
taught them to reel, they having raised
one hundred pounds of cocoons which en-
titled them to this, as also the bounty of
twenty-five cents per pound on good
cocoons. Their club has placed fifty dol
lars in the bank as a result of their efforts.
The speaker thought the whole of Utah
could surely do more than this. “Let us
unite energetically in raising cocoons, we
can get the eggs free from the Utah Wo-
man’s Silk Commission, Salt Lake City,
made possible by an appropriation of three
thousand dollars by the Legislature; it is a
very remunerative enterprise and women


[Column 1]
ad children can engage in it.”
	Sister E. B. Wells recommended the 
raising of cocoons, the eggs and pamphlet
of instructions are furnished by the Com-
mission for which apply to Mrs. Margaret
A. Caine, Secretary, Salt Lake City; she is
working through the State in the silk in-
terest. The sisters of Cache are doing a
good work in silk, and intend exhibiting at
the Fair; they have material for dress goods
all silk. Sister Woodbury of St. George
has an excellent article on silk published
in the EXPONENT. Sister Barber of Cache
is a very successful worker in silk; it is an
industry in which women and children can
engage profitably. Spoke at some length
and gave much encouragement upon this
industry.
	Sister Tanner, Second ward Payson,
reported they were assisting to build
a meeting house, and had furnished
a large quantity of carpet for the same.
“We are doing a good work in our Society
duties.”
	Sister Frances Cluff, Pleasant View,
Provo said “We hold our regular meeting
on fast day and have a semi-monthly meet-
ing, we send aids to the different associa-
tions which we find a help. I hope the
Lord will continue to bless us.”
	President Rebecca Standring of Lehi said
“We endeavor to do the best we can; we
meet on a Monday and have an attendance
of from seventy to eighty and sometimes 
one hundred. We enjoy a good spirit
some of the young sisters meet with us,
our wheat is in good condition.” Hoped
the sisters would raise cocoons, it is not
hard or obnoxious work, she took quite a
delight in it, had sllk she wished woven for
a dress. Bore her testimony to the truth of
our holy religion, etc.
	President Martha Simons, Payson First
ward, reported they had about one hun-
dred members in their Society. “We
have given considerable relief to those in
need, we have about six hundred bushels of
wheat on hand.” Spoke encouragingly of
the silk.
	Brother John Nuttall said many good
things. “Reports have been given, and Sis-
ter Wells informs me the silk interest comes
under the auspices of the Relief Society
which I commend. In regard to the sis-
ters of the Relief Society assisting to build
ward houses, it is expected they perform
their own affairs and business under the
guidance of the Priesthood, so whatever
you launch out in, such as storing grain,
relieving the poor or raising silk, comes
under your own province; I want the
world to know what we are doing in these
industries. Our missionaries go to preach
the Gospel and our women delegates go to
the nations to explain the great and good
work we are doing; ladies of the world are
astonished at the vast work we do. Silk
reeling and not spinning is desired; I wish
this industry widely known.” Told of the
impetus President Brigham Young gave it.
“The braiding of straw has gone into dis-
use since finer goods are imported, this
should not be the case; work in these
things and do so under the auspices of the
Relief Society that being the oldest organ-
ization for women among us. I intended
presenting matters of our legal organization
but will call a special meeting for this pur-
pose as there is not a full representation
from each Society in the County present. 
Some sisters think we have inaugurated a
new order of business but it is mainly to

[Column 2]
establish a better method to transact busi-
ness, and to hold the position as the first or-
ganization of women in the Church, and to
make your property secure. The Mutual
Improvement and Sunday Schools and
Primaries are later organizations; they are
making progress and advancement. Are
you my sisters making strides commen-
surate with the object in view? Do not
lose ground but advance whenever you can,
and wake up to attend your Conferences
and work in harmony throughout the
State. I do not think this Society pro-
gresses as much as it could if you were
more earnest. I wish the sisters to write
down questions they desire to ask, and a
place will be appointed to this end that you
can gain information on subjects pertaining
to your Society; attend the call and show
an interest in these matters. I do not
want the sisters to build meeting houses,
but get the brethren to assist you in your
undertakings. May the Lord bless you in
your labors, amen.”
	Bishop Robinson said provisions had
been made to entertain the visitors, and he
would see the teams were fed and taken
care of. Benediction by Bishop Robinson.
	Sister John stated a telegram had been
received that Sisters Zina Young and Card
would be with us this afternoon, they
having missed the train this morning.
(Continued)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Sister Phebe Adams Hancock died at Paysont
Utah, Feb 4, 1897. She was born June 7, 1811 a
Middlesex Ontario Co., New York. She was the
daughter of Isaac and Betsy Adams, was married
to Solomon Hancock June 28, 1836, joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the
same year and emigrated to Missouri. Came to
Utah in 1849 and to Payson in 1852, and has lived
in this community ever since that time.
	She leaves three sons and one daughter to
mourn for her. She lived a widow nearly fifty
years and supported her family under many
hardships. She was an officer in the first Relief
Society organized by Joseph Smith the Prophet
at Lima, Illinois. She was also the first counselor
to the president, Sister Rachel Drollinger, when
the Payson Relief Society was organized in 1856,
which position she held for many years. At the
reorganization of the Society In w[-]ich Elizabeth
Lant was President, Sis er Phebe Hancock was
elected Treasurer.
	She suffered mobbings and was driven with 
he Saints from Missouri, and drove her own
eam across the plains from Winter Quarters.
	Therefore, whereas our Heavenly Father has
called her away from earth and our midst to a
higher sphere, we miss our beloved sister and
	RESOLVE, To remember her long for the good
she has accomplished while with us; and further
it is
	RESOLVED, That the members of the Second
ward Relief, Society of Payson, cherish her
memory, emulate her energies, perseverance,
long-suffering and virtues through many persecu-
tions and trials of faith connected with the work
of godliness, benevolence, kindness and charity;
for she was affectionately known as “Aunt
Phebe.” Also that we become like unto her in
all meekness and humility. She was kind and
generous to the poor, ever ready to do good.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family in behalf Of our Society,
by the President and Secretary, one be placed
upon our records and be published in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT with the following appropriate
selected lines.
		“She’s gone her work on earth is done,
	Her battle fought, her race is run,
		Blest is the way she trod;
	For she espous d a g orious cause
	In prompt obedience to the laws
		Of the Eternal God.

[Column 2]
	She sleeps, her troubles here are o'er, 
	She sleeps her earthly ills no more
 		Will break the slumberers rest.
	Her dust is laid beneath the sod 
	Her spirit has returned to God
		To mingle with the blest.”
					CLARISSA MOORE, 
					MILLIE STARK,  
					MARY H. BLENKEY
							Committee.
MARGARET A. H. WHITE.
	Sister Margaret Ann Hill White, daughter of
Patriarch Alexander Hi l and Agnes Hood Hill,
died at her home in Mill Creek ward, Salt Lake
Co., April 9, 1897, after a long and painful illness
which she bore with patience and fortitude She
was born May 1, 1834, at Delhoosea, Canada, and
was bapt zed when she was ei ht years old. She
with her parents, brothers and sisters, shared the
persecut ons of the Saints in Missouri and Nauvoo
and emigrated to Utah in the fall of 1849. She
was married to Elder George Mar in White in
Dec. 1863, (B other W ite died on the 5th of
August 1890.) She was the mother of eight child- 
ren, th ee sons and five daughters Her son
George M. White is now on a mi sion to the .
Northern States.
	Sister White was one of the first to have her
name enrolled as a member of the Relief Society
when it was organized in the Mill Creek ward
She has filled the office of a teache faithfully and
efficiently, seeking out the poor and the needy
and ministering to them with a loving and a
cheerful spirit.
	She was also a teacher in the Sunday school,
performing a noble part. She was ever work ng
for the welfare of Zion. She was a firm believer
in home industry, not alone in theory but in prac-
tice. When the silk organization was effected in
the ward, she was elected president and with her
associates accompli hed a good work in that
direction.
	We have visited her when she was busy with
the silk worms; it was a delight to see with what
care she tended to their necessities, also to listen
to the instructions she was always ready to give.
	She was a kind and loving mother; in her long
sickness she was attended to by her devoted
daughters, and mucn p aise is due them for their
u tiring effo ts in ministering to the loved one.
Her children, with the exception, of the son on a
mission, were all present in her last moments,
wh ch were peaceful and happy.
	She leave a large number of children, grand-
children, relatives and friends to mourn her loss,
but with hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Sister White died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint. In behalf of he Relief Society
we tender our deepest sympathy to the bereaved
family. Our friend and cola orer has been called
from our midst to another sphere. May we who
remain emulate her many virtues so that when
we are called home it may be said of us, also,
“Well done. thou hast been good and faithful,
enter into thy rest.”
	The funeral services were held in the Mill
Creek Ward house, Counselor Jas. R. Miller
conducted the services. A large number of
relatives and friends assembled to pay their last 
tribute of respect. Loving hands placed beauti-
ful flowers upon the casket The singing was
very appropriate and much appreciated. The
speakers were Brother Joseph E. Taylor of the
Stake Presi ency, Bi hop McRae, Bishop Hamil-
ton, of Mill Creek, a d other ward authorities,
ea h of whom bore a strong testimony of the
worth and works of our departed sister. A large
number of carriages followed the remains to the 
ward cemetery. The dedicatory prayer was
offered by Patri rch Archibald Hill, now in his
eighty-first year uncle to undeparted sister.
			ELIZABETH HILL, President,
			FRANCES H. HANSON, Secretary.


AN INTERESTING TIME.
	ON Saturday February 6, 1897, the an-
nual and quadrennial meeting of the Seven-
teenth ward Relief Society took place at 10
a. m. in the Relief Society hall, President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. The main
object of the meeting was to elect a board of
directors to act during the ensuing four years.
This was effected with the following result:
President, Clarissa S. Williams; first Vice-
President, Sophia Nultall; second Vice-
President, Johanna Brobery; Secretary,


Elizabeth Wilcox; Treasurer, Jane M. C.
Young.
	Tuesday April 13, being the regular day
for a spiritual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety (these meetings alternate with the busi-
ness meetings) the following guests re-
sponded to invitations to be present: Sis-
ters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, E.
B. Wells and M. I. Horne of the Central
board, and M. I. Horne, Annie T. Hyde,
Clara C. Cannon, Margaret Y. Taylor and
M. W. Wilcox of the Stake board, with
E. J. Stevenson, Julia C. Howe, L. D.
Alder, and M. A. P. Hyde, Sister Julia I.
Pack, Bishop W. J. Beatie and his counsel-
or A. T. Barnes.
	After the opening exercises President C.
S. Williams made opening remarks, said
this was the regular day for the spiritual
meeting of the Relief Society. A new ex-
ecutive board had recently been elected and
the visiting sisters and the ward bishopric
had been invited to meet with the Relief
Society to do honor to the retiring President
B. W. Smith, and her counselor, Julia I.
Pack. Both sisters had served long and
faithfully and were much honored and be-
loved by their associates, who had received
great blessings from their counsel and in-
struction. Sister Smith needed more free-
dom for her Temple and other duties, and
Sister Pack had removed to Kamas. Speak-
ing for the society Sister Williams gave
greeting to the visitors and bade them all
welcome.
	Remarks both instructive and edifying
were made by the visitors and bishopric.
Sister Zina D. H. Young desired to know
how many cf the old Nauvoo Relief Soci-
ety were present. A show of hands indi-
cated five, Sisters Z. D. Young, B. W.
Smith, S. E. Merrill, M. I. Horne and
Julia L Pack. Interesting reminiscences
of those early days were given, also of the
first organization in the Seventeenth ward.
The elder sisters showed the need, and
urged upon the younger sisters to become
members of, and active workers in the Re-
lief Society labor. Spoke of the great
good accomplished by the Society, con-
gratulated the society present upon owning
the building in which they met. All ex-
pressed themselves as greatly pleased to be
present and Sister Young said she thought
these meetings grand. After partaking of
a spiritual feast, dainty refreshments were
served by dainty young ladies, and all de-
parted feeling it was a privilege to have
been there. 
				L. S. WILCOX, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall
May 1, 1897 Singing “Who are these
arrayed in white;” prayer by Sister Mar- 
garet Steele; singing “How will the Saints
rejoice to tell;” minutes of the previous
meeting read and approved, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presided.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said it was
very pleasing to have Saturday come
around again for these meetings; was sorry
to see so few here on this beautiful day.
Regretted the absence of Sister Horne and
spoke of her great loss in the death of her
noble husband; told us of the last time
she saw him, and how comfortable he
seemed to feel, which was about two weeks
before his death. “Does it not stand us all
in hand to be ready when the call comes?”

[Column 2]
The speaker urged the sisters to be econom-
ical and give to the poor, also to guard
against going into debt. Sister Stevenson
spoke of her recent visit to Davis Co., of
their Relief Society Conference and what a
grand time they had. Referred to the re-
marks of President Hess, felt he was in-
spired greatly. Prayed the good spirit
which we always have might continue to
be with us in these meetings.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, said she felt well in being here
today. Urged the necessity of doing Tem-
ple work and felt the time would come
when we would not have this privilege,
thought that now we should do all we
could in this direction. Prayed that we
might all be strengthened and built up and
that the Lord would continue to bless us.
	President Mary Ann Hyde said she was
always comforted and blest by hearing the
sisters bear their testimony. The speaker
felt that the Destroyer was at large trying
to lead the young people astray and we
should do what we could to shield them
from these things.
	Sister Mary Ellen Kimball said listening
to the remarks of Sister Hyde reminded
her of the time when they were girls to-
gether. Said she loved a righteous person,
be they Jew or Gentile, bond or free.
	Sister Price bore a strong testimony,
said many times she had tried to bear this
testimony, but felt today she could do this
earnestly.
	Sister Wright felt she must speak of the
goodness of the Lord to her, also referred
to her Temple work. Said when we were
in trouble or difficulty to go to our Heaven-
ly Father and He will always help us.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony, said we
should have charity and patience for those
who are not blessed in the way we are.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy spoke of the
time when she first joined the Church and
her early experiences. Bore a grand testi-
mony.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde bore her testi-
mony, said whenever any one bore her
testimony something was always said to
help some one. By attending to our duties
and tending to the every day things of life
we were working out our own salvation.
Spoke of the many things we had to fight
against, Christian Science, Theosophy, and
many other things, felt we should always
be prayerful that we might be guarded
against these things. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to the re-
marks of Sister Hardy, she said though
being in poor health she still kept on with
her work in her ward; bore her testimony.
Spoke of Brother Joseph Horne who had
just passed away and related a dream Aunt
Zina D. H. Young had about Brother
Horne. Said we should be careful and
love one another. Spoke on charity, and
of our President, dear Sister Horne, and
said we should all continue to pray for her.
Prayed we might all have oil in our lamps
and be faithful.
	Sister Sarah Phelps related a dream she 
had about her Temple work; urged the
sisters to go on and do all the Temple
work they could. 
	Sister Stevenson made a few closing re-
marks, asked the sisters to continue pray-
ing for Brother Horne’s family. Singing,
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Sister Julia C. Howe.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


Special Excursion to Northern Utah, Idaho and
Oregon, Saturday, June 19th, 1897.
VIA THE 
Oregon Short Line
At the Following Low Rates:
	TO		RATE	LIMIT	TO				RATE	LIMIT
Brigham		$2.25	15 days	Market Lake		$10.35	30 days 
Collinston	3.00		15   “	Dubois			12.05	30   “
Mendon		3.25		15   “	Beaver Canon		12.90	30   “
Logan		3.50		15   “	American Falls	8.00		30   “
Smithfield	3.75		15   “	Minidoka		9.00		30   “
Richmond	4.00		15   “	Shoshone		10.00	30   “
Franklin		4.25		15   “	Bellevue			12.75	30   “
Preston		4.50		15   “	Hailey			13.00	30   “
Oxford		4.25		15   “	Mountain Home	14.50	30   “
McCammon	5.75		15   “	Nampa			18.25	30   “
Bancroft		7.25		30   “	Boise City		19.00	30   “
Soda Springs	8.05		30   “	Caldwell			18.50	30   “
Montpelier	9.60		30   “	Ontario			20.00	30   “
Pocatello		7.00		15   “	Payette			20.25	30   “
Blackfoot	8.20		30   “	Weiser			21.00	30   “
Idaho Falls	9.50		30   “	Huntington		22.50	30   “

	Transit limit of five (5) days in each direction will be
allowed on tickets bearing final limit of thirty (30) days.
Other tickets will be limited to continuous passage in each 
direction.
	Trains for Cache Valley and intermediate points will 
leave at 8:00 a. m. and 7:00 p.m., and for all other points 
at 7:00 p.m.
	.S W. ECCLES,			D. E. BURLEY,
		General Traffic Manager.	Gen’l. Pass. & Tkt. Agt.

[image of a shield with text]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE

[Text to the right of the shield]
The People's Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART. 
“The Overland L1mited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City			7:00 a.m. 
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver							7:00 p.m. 
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City				3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK, 
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON, 
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
	H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

