
1(2), 2,5(2), 7,
									Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 40.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1911						No. 1.


CONTENTS.
International Suffrage Alliance...............	1
Oneida Stake...........................Secretary	2
Annual Day at Butte, Montana...............	2
Chautauqua Assembly............................	3
Notes and News......................................	3
Sketch of Elizabeth F. Yates...................	6
Dinah Stoddard Wrigley.........................	6
Notes on Nurse Class........Lula J. Smith	6
Sketch of the Life and Labors of Mary J.
	R. West............................................	6
Snowflake Stake.....................................	7
Household Hints.......................A. W. C.	7
Relief Society Reports—Liberty, Jordan	7
Because.............................................Ex.	7
Porgressive Catholics....Woman’s Journal	8
Women Lawyers...............................Ex.	8
Notes and News......................................	8
Editorial: The Fortieth Volume...............	4
	The Ways They Are Many and Wide	4
	The Fulfillment of Prophecy...........	5
Editorial Notes........................................	5
	In Memoriam..................................	5


THE PIONEERS.
Was there ever work more glorious,
	More uplifting in its theme,
Than to honor parents mem’ries—
	Those who’ve passed down life’s sad stream? 

Pioneers made glorious history,
	Paved the way for fruits and flowers,
We now share this bounteous harvest,
	Debts of gratitude are ours.

How we love to hear their stories,
Tho‘ of’t-told with biting pain,
Yet their lives were truly woven
	“Joys and sorrows”—their refrain.

First a light thread—then a darker,
	In life’s cloth of black and gold,
Woven here with plainest marker,
	Grey hair, deep lines—plainly told.

Lovely face, its sweetness showing,
	Care and hardship could not blight
That sweet spirit—always knowing,
	God and Truth were there in sight.

When the way seemed dark and dreary,
	Trembling under loads they bore,
When their hearts grew faint and weary,
	Still was faith and hope in store.

Many times the tears were ready
	To descend like copious rain,
Yet the cry “Be brave—be steady!”
	Turned their gloom to mild disdain.

Thus, at length, their journey ended,
	This great Valley they had reached,
“Here we stay—“the cry thus blended
	With their prayers—their God beseeched.

That a place of peace and safety,
	Might be granted them at last,
Where the Lord could aid them greatly,
	Their religion to make fast.

Efforts great—such self-denial!
	Their reward—the victor’s crown! 
They endured all kinds of trial,
	Stepping Stones to great renown.

Thus, we prosper, through their efforts,
	And our children share like wise,
Loyal, active, great in comforts,
	Laud their mem’ries to the skies!

Sing their praises, do not smother,
	Sacred strains that dwell within,
Honor father, honor mother,
	Pioneer heroes all akin.
					—V. Clayton McCune.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL SUFFRAGE ALLI-
			ANCE.
	At the International Suffrage Alliance
held recently in Stockholm, twenty-six
countries were represented by delegations,
two of these countries being admitted to the
Alliance during the Congress.
	Stockholm is one of the most beautiful
cities in the world, and is said to be a com-
bination of Edinburgh and Venice trans-
figured by the national genius of Sweden.
	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, a woman
known here in America and abroad as one of
the very best women speakers, presided at
this great Congress of the women of the
world.
	The elaborate decorations in the national
colors, blue and yellow were very effective, 
and when worn by pretty girls, who were
pages going continually through the audi-
ence with notes, etc., were like moving pic-
tures in the scene of color.
	The first striking feature was the presen-
tation of the gavel of the convention, sent
by the newly enfranchised state of Wash-
ington and presented by Miss Janet Rich-
ards of Washington, D. C. in a very telling
speech. Mrs. Catt, however, used the heavy
gavel given her at the farewell luncheon in
New York by the Woman Suffrage Party,
for really this large Congress of women
from all nationalities needed much use of
the chairman’s gavel to keep them in order.
	One of the most dramatic moments of
the Congress was the presentation of the
International banner and flag by Anna Kle-
man, President of the Stockholm W. S. A.
the banner was the gift of a pioneer suffra-
gist, Froken Latten Van Kramer. The
banner itself was superb, white and gold,
and planted on the stage by three students
in white, wearing the national colors over
their shoulders; the woman’s choir rose and
standing behind the banner sang Alfren’s
setting of Ossian-Nilsson’s suffrage song.
The audience rose as the dramatic music be-
gan, and the banners of the different na-
tions were raised and lowered where they
hung round the gallery.
	The President herself, Mrs. Catt, pre-
sents a striking appearance upon the plat-
form, and her entrance was saluted with
waving flags and ringing applause, and the
audience refused to be seated until repeated-
ly reminded by the gavel; and the homage
paid Mrs. Catt throughout the Congress
was very helpful in relieving her of the em-
barrassment of the strain of the situation.
	Mrs. Catt makes a most magnificent ap-
pearance on the platform.
	The opening address by the International
President was something of an epic review
of the progress of the movement for suf-
frage all over the world, since the last Con-
gress. Mrs. Catt is brilliant and original,
and has a humorous style that pleases the
masses, and her speech was full of thrilling
incidents that awaken, the most placid na-
tures. The effect of her style is beyond de-
scription, one must see and hear her to ap-
preciate the force and strength of her con-
vincing eloquence.

[Column 2]
	At a public meeting in the Royal Opera,
Tuesday night, June 13, 1911, the speakers
of Finland, Germany, Sweden, Great Brit-
ain, Hungary and the United States fol-
lowed one another; it was wonderful. Noth-
ing like it has ever been heard before. Miss
Furnhjium was first, and spoke with dig-
nity, vigor arid authority. Dr. Augspurg
typically German with a rich humanity, arid
deal fervor mingling with it a kind of folk-
lore humor.
	Selma Lagerlof spoke so feelingly that
the Swedish women and then the men began
to weep, it was very affecting. Mrs. Snow-
den was at her best in this meeting, she
spoke with great magnetic power, she is very
incisive, and launches her words at her audi-
ence.
	Miss Rosika Schuimmer of Hungary is
dark, fine and electric and is a sort of pan-
tominist. Miss Shaw was last on the pro-
gram and received an ovation at the close.
	Mrs. Catt dismissed the meeting in a most
inimitable, graceful style, and said that of all
the speakers at the Congress there was but
one that made her need her handkerchief,
and that was Miss Tomova of Bohemia;
it was not what she said but the intense feel-
ing in a human voice, and the splendor of 
what she expressed like unto music that was
indescribably affecting.
	The most enlivening feature of the meet-
ing was the announcement by Colonel Mans-
field of Holland that the suggestion of the
International President that the delegates of
the different Men’s Leagues might put in
good time by forming a Men’s League in
Sweden had been carried into effect and
that furthermore an International Men’s
League had also been formed consisting of
America, England, Germany, Hungary,
Sweden and Holland. Shouts of “Bravo”
and prolonged applause greeted this an-
nouncement, and it was some time before the
business could be resumed.
	The matter of dress necessarily comes in
when women assemble from many countries,
and this Congress was no exception. It is
stated “the Swedish were most imposing in
garments of anybody in the Congress.” “Not
Paris itself surpasses Stockholm in the fash-
onable appearance of its women.”
	“One timid looking little dame from East-
ern Europe appeared the first day in a har-
em skirt, showing green lace stockings and
white slippers. The length of the perspec-
tive was greater than the delegates ap-
proved, and thereafter, “she wore peniten-
tial and shapeless black.”
	English women wore tailor-made suits.
The South Africans wore business-like suits.
The Australians halted between home or
office. The Hungarians wore what a New
York woman described as “bed-gowns.”
	The French women wore black and white,
so did the Russians. Germans were rich in 
taste, all except Miss Schermacher, who
wore a shirt-waist. Dr. Augspurg wore a
plum colored satin, trimmed with fringe,
made loose.
	The majority struggled to conform to
the hobble skirts as far as they could recon-


[Column 1]
cile it with their consciences, and that was
not too far. Some wore jewelry and crimped
their hair, but there was not much frivolity.
	At dress occasions, the suffragists made
a grand showing; and one woman won-
dered, “what the sainted souls of the
Bloomer period would have thought of their
degenerate daughters in reception gowns.”
However, taken as a whole, those groups
of women from all nations showed a high
general type in dress and manner.
	The most of the Congress seems to have
been very satisfactory, weather was fine, and
meetings successful and brilliant dinners.
	The Swedish custom of starting the
speeches after the first course, and sprink-
ling them between courses is a very excel-
lent one to follow, giving more time to en-
tertainment afterwards.
	Saturday evening, June 17, 1911, the dele-
gates were entertained by the Swedish W.
S. A. at Saltsjohaden, a summer resort near
Stockholm, very delightfully situated on the
Baltic sea. The party took a ferry and train
to reach the restaurant, and returned on a
large boat with a searchlight thrown on
the surrounding beautiful scenery.
	After dinner at the restaurant the guests
went into the garden and the Vice Presi-
dent spoke concerning Mrs. Catt praising
her methods and so on, others followed in
the same way, Mr. Ernest Beckman, M. P.
(whose wife is an American and who enter-
tained the delegates at supper in their
charming home	*	*	on Sunday, June
11, 1911). Mme. Brunschwiez of France
and Fran Linderman of Germany, all these
were profuse in their eulogies of Mrs. Catt.
	Miss Janet Richards of Washington D. C.
paid a pretty tribute to the Swedish flag,
likening it to the blue of the skies and the
golden sunshine, (blue and yellow), which
greeted the delegates so warmly.
	On Wednesday, June 4th, 1911, the
American minister and his wife, Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Graves, gave a luncheon to
the American delegates, fraternal delegates
and alternates, and invited the members of
the recently formed American Woman’s
Club in Stockholm to meet them after the
luncheon. There were many social func-
tions, and enjoyable music, dancing, peas-
ant dances, songs and speeches, almost in-
numerable.
	The delegates were invited to a beautiful
villa to see Mr. Thier’s collection of pictures,
and in the evening to a park Skansen where
there were out-door speeches from natural
platforms (huge rocks), and dances by
Swedish peasants in costume.
	Invitations to dinners and evening parties,
boat-riding and pleasure excursions were
numerous, and in variety are more enter-
taining to Americans than scenes and places
in one’s own land. Many of the incidents
connected with this International Alliance
Congress are deeply interesting, and some
even pathetic; for instance, one writer says,
“It is a strange sensation to sit on a box
overlooking a huge audience, sitting silent
as the dead, while one sad voice speaks out
into the silence words absolutely without
meaning to you; then to see all over that
audience people moved to tears! Truly it
was as though we watched a miracle, re-
specting, uncomprehending, wondering.
	Dr. Augspurg, the German President and
leader, is spoken of by one of the writers
who took notes of the Congress: 
	“She is sturdy of figure, strong of fea-

[Column 2]
ture, with close-cropped curling hair and
loose hanging robes of black or white.
She always appears like some monk of old,
austere, commanding, far-visioned. One can
picture her thundering words of wrath, ex-
horting to reform, and picturing dreams and
visions.”
	Rev. Anna Shaw, the same writer says,
spoke with wit compelling cleverness and
moving eloquence, and spoke magnificently
of the wonderful binding together of the
world’s womanhood in this International
Alliance, saying she considered it a greater
force for world’s peace than the finest of
International Hague Conferences ever held.
	It is almost impossible to select from the
material the Woman’s Journal contains what
will be the very best to give to our home
readers.
	Altogether the International Alliance
Congress seems to have taken that wonder-
ful city of Stockholm, if not the kingdom
of Sweden by storm.
	In the report of discussions in the meet-
ings of the International Alliance Congress,
we note many excellent points have been
brought out that will be helpful to all wom-
en who are working for the advancement
and uplifting of humanity, therefore we
hope the entire proceedings will be published
in book form for future use and specific
education along this line of woman’s en-
franchisement.—Extracts.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ONEIDA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Annual Conference of
the Oneida Stake was held at Preston, May
27, 1911. President Louisa B. Bennion pre-
siding. All members of the board were
present. Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
Prayer, Miller Golightly. Singing—Solo,
“Beyond the gates of Paradise,” Mrs.
Packer.
	An address of welcome was given by
Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson. A verbal
report of the stake was given by Counselor
Hannah Mickleson and denoted the organi-
zations in a good healthy condition, with the
mother’s work accomplishing more than had
ever been known before.
	Lesson, “The Father and Mother in the
Home,” was given by Lucy Cutler.
	A paper on a “Model Home” given by
Ella M. Hull.
	Elder Geo. C. Parkinson addressed the
conference on the subjects of home, our
life’s mission, and the importance of living
up to the professions we make by calling
ourselves Latter-day Saints, explained how
a good clean influence was felt everywhere.
	Sister Mary Hawkes added her testimony
and urged all to grasp the opportunities, and
privileges we all are blessed with.
	Singing, “The time is far spent.”
	Benediction, Esther Rogers.
	Afternoon Session—The Stake Presi-
dency members of High Council were pres-
ent.
	Singing, “High on the Mountain Top.”
	Prayer, Gretta Rollison.
	Singing, “O say what is truth?”
	Roll call denoted 19 branches represented,
160 present.
	President L. B. Benson addressed the
conference, “The mother’s work is doing
better than ever before.” Spoke of the or-
ganization of the Relief Society and in-

[Column 2]
structions given by the Prophet, also the la-
bors of Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith, and the work of the
local workers in the Oneida Stake.
	Duet, “Gently lead us,” Leonard and Ma-
bel Moore.
	An able paper on “How, when and what
to read,” was given by Chloe M. Howell.
Recitation, “The shadow on the blind,” Ire-
ta Rollison.
	Solo, “The dear home songs,” Mrs. Lar-
son.
	Paper, “The benefits derived from moth-
ers’ work,” was given by Rae Hawkes.
	Stake Counselor Taylor Nelson said he
rejoiced in the gospel of truth and indi-
vidual effort, spoke on the joy and bless-
ings that would follow energetic labors in
the same.
	President Jos. Geddes spoke of the light
abroad in the earth, and what it means to all
people.
	Counselor James Johnson endorsed what
had been said and done and encouraged all
to profit by the same.
	Elder J. R. McNiel spoke on duty and
honoring the same.
	Elder John Larson said they were proud
of the Relief Society workers and of the
good they accomplished.
	President L. B. Benson made closing re-
marks.
	Singing, “On the Mountain Top Appear-
ing”
	Benediction, Chas. D. Goaslind.
						Stake Secretary.


ANNUAL DAY AT BUTTE, MONTANA.
	On the afternoon of the 17th of March,
1911, the Relief Society of the Butte
Branch of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints met at the home of First
Counselor Pauline Gabrielson to celebrate
in honor of the sixty-ninth anniversary of
the Relief Society, Sister Bertha Andrews
presiding. Singing, “Come, Come Ye
Saints.” Prayer, Sister Marie Evans. Sing-
ing, “Do What is Right.” President Bertha
Andrews said she was pleased to see so
many out to celebrate in honor of the sixty-
ninth anniversary of the Relief Society, and
also to pay our respects to the dear sister
who is leaving us to reside in Logan, gave
a short talk on the organiztaion of the Re-
lief Society, spoke of the good done by our
sisters in visiting the sick and relieving the
poor, and of how much good the teachers
could do and were doing. She said we are
sorry to lose Sister Gabrielson, as she has
been one of the most faithful workers in the
Relief Society of Butte; asked God to bless
her and her family.
	Counselor Sister Maggie Boam was much
pleased with the splendid talk of our presi-
dent; encouraged the sisters to be faithful
and true to the Gospel; bore a faithful tes-
timony and closed by asking God to bless
us all.
	Sisters Marie Jensen and Pauline Ga-
brielson added their faithful testimonies.
Sister Maggie Boam then presented Sister
Pauline Garbrielson with a quilt as a token
of the love the sisters bore her. The usual
10 cent fund was given. After singing, “We
Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,” the
benediction was pronounced by Sister Carrie
Adams.
CARRIE ADAMS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BABY HELEN.
ONE YEAR OLD.
Baby Helen’s silken hair,
O’er her forehead full and fair,
With it's tint of golden brown,
’Minds us of an angel’s crown
Doting father, young and fond,
Point her to the world beyond;
Live that your fair daughter may
Be your own through endless day.

Baby Helen’s laughing eyes,
Fill with innocent surprise,
That to her should be expressed
Tender greetings from each guest
Gentle mother, now secure,
By your teachings chaste and pure,
Peace with Heaven that, free from sin.
You with her may enter in.

Grandpa from his heart of love,
Calls his baby, “lamb" and “dove.”
And with playful, winsome charms,
Woos the darling to his arms.
Aunts and cousins, plainly thus,
Our Great Father calls to us;
Let us merit His embrace
When we see His glorious face.
L. L. Greene Richards.


YOU AND I.
When we walked a-down the hillside,—
Mountain-lilies called before,
And I held within my apron
Mountain-lilies score on score,
Then I scarce could hear you speaking,—
Spring was calling in my ear,
Till you took my hand in parting,—
Then, for aye, I knew you, dear.
When I hid beside the roadway,
Gay you called me “Butterfly,”—
But your face grew solemn—manlike,
When I dared not raise my eye,—
In the Long Ago, beloved,
You and I.

In the great Unseen beyond us,
When we leave this earth, this sky,
Will I know you by your handclasp,
And you by my half-hid eye?
Ah, belov’d, when we meet, Godlike,
What if, dear, we framed those signals
I to know you by your handclasp,
You to know me—"Butterfly,"
By a lid that fluttered, birdlike,
Ere I dared to raise my eye,—
In the great Before, beloved,
You and I?
—Blanche Kendall McKay.


[Column 1]
CHAUTAUQUA ASSEMBLY.
	We are aware that there are a number
of Utah people who are not familiar with
the term we are using, viz., Chautauqua As-
sembly, in explaining it definitely one must
necessarily go into detail—but suffice it to
say it is an institution of great merit and
advantage.
	This year it is coming to abide in Utah
one week or ten days and it will be of great
benefit to those who attend the entire course.
	The Chautauqua is in a way something
like the summer schools, yet far in advance
of any of those schools of which we have
reliable knowledge.
	Considering there is to be a Chautauqua
Assembly of one week and more in Ogden,
it will be well to have some information of
what it is, and how conducted.
	The name is derived from Chautauqua
Lake, seven miles from Lake Erie in the
State of New York, and the water is said to
be "the highest navigable water in the
United States.
	"Among the summer schools having a
general course all are eclipsed by that most
elaborate organization of summer school

[Column 2]
work which is offered by Chautauqua."
	Its origin dates back to 1874, but the Lit-
erary and Scientific Circle was not organ-
ized until 1878, the summer college in 1879
and the correspondence school in 1885."
The Chautauqua so-called comprises a se-
ries of courses designed for general culture
rather than for special training."
	Branch assemblies are held here and there
in different places which follow as nearly
as possible the plan of the General Meet-
ing. The scope of the work has attained re-
markable proportions of comprehensiveness
and utility comprised in groups of twelve
divisions, embracing hundreds of topics.
	Quite a number of great men are to give
lectures at the Chautauqua Assembly in Og-
den, during the week commencing Friday,
July 21, and closing Sunday, July 30.
	The Hon. Wm. Spry, Governor of Utah,
will deliver the address at the opening, and
President Frank M. Driggs will preside.
	Hon. B. H. Roberts will deliver an ad-
dress on Pioneer Day, July 24, entitled His-
torical Events in Utah's History. This will
certainly be a "Red Letter Day."
	Woman's Day will be Wednesday, July
26, and the speech of the occasion will be
by Prof. Howell, "The Age of Action."
Prof. Tyler, "Conformity to Environments."
Mrs. McMahon, President of Utah Federa-
tion of Clubs.
	The one feature of the Assembly that
appeals strongly to the writer is the "Round
Table." When we recall the great men and
women of the past, who figured conspicuous-
ly at the Round Table and whose names are
synonyms for literary and scientific re-
search, discoveries and attainments, and that
those few who have opened up avenues of
thought along new lines of enterprise and
activity and have truly been benefactors to
humanity; lighting the torches that have
been beacons to the race; when we recall
the few who led the way to higher think-
ing, and broader views of enlightenment,
then we include those few, who at the
"Round Table" entertained each other, and as
it were created from the depths of thought,
(sub-conscious) if one may use the term,
and from this nucleus, call it by what name
you will, there came an awakening. Hon-
or be to these great names, philosophers,
statesmen, inventors and men and women of
superlative genius in all the departments
of mentality that led to superior inventions
and skilled labor machinery.
	Much has been done in climbing the lad-
der of learning, but man has not yet reached
the sublime heights, and yet great things
have been done marvelous, and still the
world moves on, and far greater things are
yet to come—inventions for saving time and
labor are helping men and women to cul-
tivate those greater gifts and talents and
make spiritual progress, in higher attain-
ments than have as yet been conceived of
by mortal minds; we are as a people enter-
ing into higher realms of progress and ad-
vancement and even of power to control
agencies unknown to our forefathers, and
the unseen elements and forces that exist,
and are yet to be controlled by the skill and
ingenuity of man.
	The Round Table of Chautauqua Assem-
bly, will undoubtedly be one of the most
fascinating features of the gathering, and so
we who are figuring in the activities of the
present ought to see and hear what will
transpire or take place at the meetings of
scholars and professors of great renown

[Column 3]
from the universities of learning, that have
all the advantages that accrue from great li-
braries and associations with the scholars of
the world.
	Recalling the Round Table brings to mind
the time of King Arthur and his knights
and the days of chivalry and romance, the
deeds of valor and feasting and of trou-
badours, and the seats of honor, and of Sir
Galahad who alone could occupy the
only man who could sit in the Siege Per-
ilous at the "Round Table," because he was
chaste. The Round Table of the Chautau-
gua Assembly will be quite different from
that shown at Winchester, in England, or
that of King Edward III at Windsor some
seventy years later.
	If the coming event the Chautauqua As-
sembly is well advertised personally by men
and women interested in the higher educa-
tion and cultivation of the people of Utah
there is little doubt of its success. And it is
desirable that Utah should have the best of
everything.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Adelaide Johnson, the sculptor, has
just returned from Rome.
	It is now said to be an established fact
that women have the right to vote at Parlia-
mentary elections in Portugal.
	It has been officially announced that an
International Men’s Union to further the
cause of woman suffrage has just been
formed.
	Polish women of the City of Chicago
have organized a woman suffrage society
to be known as the Polish Political League
of America.
	During the annual Episcopal Diocesan
convention in Connecticut a few days ago,
a motion was made by Rev. Edward Living-
ston Wells, to give women an equal voice
with men in parish administration. Mr.
Wells added that in many parishes women
do a great deal, if not most of the work.
	It is estimated that from 40,000 to 60,000
people marched in the Votes for Women
procession in London, June 17. Lady Stout
headed the New Zealand section, while Mrs.
Fisher, wife of the Premier, led the Austra-
lian division, and Mrs. McGowan, wife of
the Premier of New South Wales, walked
with the delegation from that state.
	Sunday-school Teacher: “I told you last
Sunday that I wished each one of you
would try to make at least one person happy
during the week. Did you?” Boy: “Yes,
miss; I made grandma happy.” “That’s
noble. How did you do it?” “I went to
visit her, and she says she is always happy
when she sees I’ve a good appetite.”
	A school teacher told a pupil to buy a
grammar. The next day she received this
note from the child’s mother:
	“I do not desire for Lulu shall ingage in
grammar, as I prefer her to ingage in use-
ful studise and can learn her how to spoke
and write properly myself. I have went
through two grammars myself and I cant
say they did me no good, I prefer her in-
gage in german and drawing and vocal
music on the piano.”


Woman’s Exponent.

			WOMAN’S EXPONENT

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-	-	JULY, 1911


[Column 1]
		THE FORTIETH VOLUME.
	It is very rare that a woman’s paper has
survived the changes that transpire in news-
paper or journalistic life for the number of
years this little periodical has held its place
among the women of this Western land.
To tell its complete history would be a long
story; what it has done and what recorded
during these years has been quite remark-
able. Not now because it is not so strange
a thing, but thirty-nine years ago times
here were very different, and indeed in the
United States there were very few women’s
papers.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston is the
oldest paper, founded by Lucy Stone, now in
its forty-second volume, having been issued
first in 1869. It has sometimes had a hard
struggle, yet it has always been a very pop-
ular paper with suffrage people, and those
of advanced ideas along the lines of pro-
gress. It has, however, had occasional gifts
of money, some large sums from those who
were anxious to help forward a movement
for the betterment of humanity. The only
other paper of the kind that has survived
so long was the Englishwomen’s Review,
that lived for half a century, and certainly
was one of the best periodicals of its time.
	The New North West, quite a popular
woman’s paper founded in Portland, Ore-
gon in 1869 by Abagail Scott, Dunniway,
was discontinued for lack of support, a
number of years ago.
	The Ballot Box of former days published
a few years in Toledo, Ohio, and afterwards
in Syracuse, New York, by Matilda Joslyn
Gage, one of the finest and best of that day.
	The Woman’s Tribune later in Washing-
ton, D. C.,, published and edited by Clara
B. Colby, a woman of untold energy and
enterprise the organ for some years of the
National Woman’s Suffrage Association, as
the Woman’s Journal was for years of the
American Woman’s Suffrage Association;
there was one earlier paper, The Golden
Era, published in San Francisco, started
about the same time, perhaps a little later,
than the New North West, by Mrs. A. J.
Boyer whose nom de Phune was Dora Dart-
moor, that was discontinued long years ago
now, but it was very popular for a time
and prosperous. It was sort of light read-
ing, and did not advocate any such objec-
tionable principles as Woman Suffrage or
Dress Reform, but this and a dozen other
wornen’s pepers were comparatively short-
lived, notwithstanding their popularity.
	The Woman’s Exponent was not likely to

[Column 2]
be very popular with the people outside the
Latter-day Saints, because it has always
stood for “Mormon” doctrine from the very
first issue, and therefore its supporters and
patrons have been almost entirely of our
own faith. Yet it has gained some friends
outside both here at home, and abroad in
other countries.
	It has been very useful among our own
people especially as an organ of the Re-
lief Society, which is one of the most bene-
ficial societies in the world; and in its vol-
umes there is much history contained, which
is reliable for reference for future histor-
ians, not only concerning woman’s work,
industrial and educational, but the lives of
the women, who figured conspicuously in the
days of the Prophet Joseph and his succes-
sor, Brigham Young, and who in connec-
tion with these and other great men, notably
Heber C. Kimball, Parley P. and Orson
Pratt, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Or-
son Hyde and others whose names stand
significant in Church history. These women
helped to lay the foundations of the great
latter-day work.
	Home industry too has been fostered and
encouraged by women, and President Brig-
ham Young appreciated the assistance of our
sisters in many undertakings both of enter-
prise and reform, that he established and
many of these projects, and schemes, are
written up in the volumes of the Woman’s
Exponent and will furnish good material for
future historians who will, it is ardently
hoped, remember the women of Zion when
compiling the history of this Western land.
	There has been no great work during
these years commenced by women that has
not been considered and helped by this lit-
tle paper.
	The grain movement established by Brig-
ham Young was planned and encouraged by
the Woman’s Exponent under his specific di-
rection and counsel, and it most certainly
should be sustained by the women of these
mountain vales and not only continue to aid
and encourage the work of women, but be-
come essential in all the movements for the
uplifting of women in all the departments of
home-culture and development, and in the
spiritual strengthening of the inner life, and
the bringing to pass greater confidence and
excellence in the graces of character, and
nobility of soul, an intense sympathy with
human life that should characterize the
Saints of God and help them to attain that
breadth of benevolence and charity, that is
more than compensation for the lack of
worldly wealth. This is the aim and pur-
pose of the Gospel to create an atmosphere
of strength, that will tend to the knowledge
of the Everlasting Truth, that will reveal
itself in the personality of the Latter-day
Saints, that all those who come into their
presence may feel and realize.
	As a people we should sustain our own
publications, not only as a duty but from
principle as well; we ought to have superior
composition and it cannot be reached with-
out an effort. Every great good to which
this people has attained in the past, has re-
quired individual effort and persistence in
the direction sought. Now that the Wom-
an’s Exponent is just entering its fortieth
year it is a good time to give a little encour-
agement and patronage. Let the sisters try
what can be done in the several stakes to
increase the number who will take it and
pay in advance, and give it support by voice

[Column 3]
and by soliciting among those who should
be its patrons, if only for the history of the
Relief Society itself, and the sketches of the
women who have carried this benevolent
work forward; and when the young women
who are attaining such superior educations
want to write books and delineate character,
they will have a fountain of material in the
lives of the veterans of Mormonism, who
crossed the Mississippi river in the dead of
winter on the ice, and those who while camp-
ing on the banks of the river after being
driven out by the mob were fed by the quails,
they and their children will be as wonderful
in history and story and song, as the hero-
ines of Greece and Rome that the poets por-
tray in verse and song.
	There is no lack of nobility and heroism
among Mormon women, there may be per-
haps of grace and polish of manner, but the
daughters who write the history of these
prophetesses who went among the sick and
suffering and toiled for humanity’s sake, and
not for dollars and cents, but in the humil-
ity and meekness of saints in very deed,
should have their praises sung by those, who
now reap the benefits bequeathed to them by
these grand and noble women, whose sim-
ple acts of charity and love shed around
them such tenderness, that it remains with
us who live today and who knew them
seems as a holy consecration, that has en-
kindled in our hearts a desire to go forward
and do likewise.


“THE WAYS THEY ARE MANY AND
			WIDE.”
	The ways of life at the present time are
indeed many, and the paths in which some
are walking are very wide, and lead this way
and that, and the craze for the uncertain
ways is leading the young astray, and many
walk therein, and stray far from the paths
of safety, and after all what real joy is
there in pursuing a phantom? No true hap-
piness is gained and the end is sorrow and
lamentation, even if there should be peni-
tence.
	One looking on with sober thought at the
mad pursuit of pleasure, or vanity, so to
speak, cannot but realize in some small de-
gree at least the consequences that must
inevitably follow sooner or later, the reck-
lessness of the youth of the present day;
whose lives are to a large extent given over
to the pursuit of pleasure that is harmful
in its tendency if not in itself.
	Watching the crowds of pleasure seekers
as they go to and fro to the various resorts
where they congregate, and listening to the
snatches of conversation, judging of the
light conduct of many of those whose time
should be better employed, is almost heart-
rending; when one considers what the con-
sequences of such folly must be.
	What is possible for those to do who have
at heart the welfare of young people in the
midst of this whirlpool of pleasure and ex-
citement!
	It is a problem not easily solved. The
mad rush and restlessness that seems to be
abroad everywhere at the present time is
like a contagion; it spreads abroad until it
would seem to cover the earth.
	Parental care and authority in some in-
stances seem but of little avail, the wisdom
and experience of mature years, advising


and instructing is disregarded, until seem-
ingly there can be no restraining influence
brought to bear that will shield the unwary
from the pitfalls that lead downward; and
unless some powerful resistance is brought
to bear the wild course will end in misery
and destruction.
	Among the Latter-day Saints there seems
every safeguard possible thrown around the
youth of both sexes, and what more or bet-
ter methods can be devised than have al-
ready been instituted and put in practice.
Prayers and faith and home-training and
watchfulness, almost vigilance—if these do
not avail with all the educational training in
the school, the Sabbath School, the Mutual
Improvement Associations, what can be
done?
	There is no other people that pays more
attention, if as much, to the rising genera-
tion than the Latter-day Saints; seemingly
the children of the Saints are hedged about
with every protection possible; here and
there for obvious reasons there may be
homes where there is not the discipline per-
haps that ought to exist, and perhaps not
the devotion, the faith, the prayers, but such
homes are the exception and not the rule;
then why is this maddening rush for vanity
that undermines the health, that deprives
the life of its best perservative qualities and
leaves weakness, unsteady nerves, and pro-
vokes a restlessness that only the rush of
excitement satisfies and that but momen-
tarily.
	These are questions we cannot answer,
and only the wisdom that comes from on
High can inspire parents, teachers, and those
who have charge of young people to keep
an “eternal vigilance” over the youth of
Zion, it is said eternal vigilance is the price
of liberty—but where there is not only lib-
erty but license one might say, and incen-
tives to wrong-doing and pitfalls on every
hand to be shunned, and the innocent and
unsuspecting know not of the deception of
evil-doers and the betrayers of virtue, what
can be dope to arrest the progress of the de-
stroyer.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FULFILLMENT OF PROPHECY.
	We who are living now are seeing won-
ders transpiring almost daily before our very
eyes, and the rapid movements that are be-
ing made in vehicles of all kinds of varieties
not only bring to mind Mother Shipton’s
prophecies, that are so frequently alluded to,
but the thoughtful people, who believe in the
scriptures recall prophetic sayings of the
Prophets of old:
	The modern methods of travel are indeed
astonishing, and it would seem that ere long
one may really fly hither and thither at will,
yet we know nature has not so provided, but
invention and ingenuity have achieved such
marvelous results that one stands amazed,
not knowing what may soon be accomplished
by the wonder-working brain, coupled with
the compelling forces so recently brought
into control by complicated processes of
man’s power over matter. And all these
things that are in a way coming about by
natural skill, and ability of mankind, are in
the fulfillment of the prophecies recorded in
the Scriptures, and have been foretold hun-
dreds of years ago.
	In the earlier days of the Church, when
the Elders were preaching among the peo-


ple, and the Gospel that seems to us who
are so well acquainted with it familiar now,
it was rather startling to hear the “Mor-
mon’’ Elders quoting from Isaiah and Eze-
kiel and Daniel and so on, and some of us
have almost forgotten these first lessons in
the Latter-day work; and we only talk of
the prevailing every-day topics usually; but
now and then the attention is called to
prophecy, and it brings before us the marvel
that has actually taken place before our very
eyes of that which is like magic and yet a
positive reality.
	The Old Testament is replete with pas-
sages significant of events transpiring
around us, and thoughtful people cannot
help now and then calling to mind the sol-
emn significance of some of these remark-
able sayings that have a direct bearing upon
the conditions of the days in which the pres-
ent generation are living.
	For instance we find recorded in the Book
of Nahum the following:
	“The chariots shall rage in the streets, they
shall jostle one against another on the broad
ways; they shall run like lightnings.”
	Could a better description of automobiles
be given than this ancient prophecy recorded
in the Scriptures, more than two thousand
years ago?
	It really ought to be convincing proof to
those who doubt the Old Bible, that there
were prophets taught of the Lord in those
ancient times.
	With the great progress being made in the
present age, what may we not look for in the
way of improvement, even now the people
that are going to and fro make one wonder
at the possibilities of travel and transporta-
tion.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES
	The Anti-Saloon League which did good
work for prohibition did not succeed in clos-
ing the saloons as we hoped to do, and ar-
dently desired, but it has paved the way for
the greater work which is to follow, and to
those who were zealous and worked dili-
gently much credit is due, and certainly the
effect of such a campaign cannot fail to pro-
duce results beneficial to those who took part
and the victory will be achieved sooner or
later for the wave of temperance is in the
air, and will eventually cover this country.
Notwithstanding the opposition is strong
and there are more against it than for it,
and there is money in favor of saloons, yet
the right in any cause is more than dollars
and cents. When there are no more saloons
other crimes will be lessened, as has already
been proven in the state of Kansas; and the
people will be more prosperous, and the
Lord will more abundantly bless the land for
the sake of those who love righteousness
and hate iniquity; and strong drink is a
compelling force in the cause of evil, and
the downfall of innocence and purity, and
the curse of cities and of nations.
	An uncommonly large number of wed-
dings have been solemnized in the Salt Lake
Temple during the month of June this year.
with wedding receptions at home afterwards.
These marriages of our young people are
very gratifying to the parents, and consid-
ering the number of Temples now in Utah
it seems there is no excuse for the young
men and women of the Latter-day Saints
to marry outside the Temple. There is no

[Column 2]
ceremony of marriage more perfect or more
beautiful in all its details than the cere-
mony in the Temples. There is a sacred-
ness there that is not felt outside the Temple.
	With the coming of summer and the real-
ly hot weather most of the women’s clubs
adjourn and many women and children hie
them away to the mountain resorts to rest
and recruit, and enjoy the luxury of cool
shades and refreshing breezes. Our moun-
tain retreats, canyons and vales are most
delightful places in which to escape for a
time from the rush, hurry and hustle of
busy city life, for we really are living in
what seems to Salt Lakers quite a large
modern city, we who have lived here many
years hardly realize its growth, it has been
so gradual, but if one pauses long enough to
consider what has been, and what it today
one can readily feel the upward trend to-
wards busy city life with many prevalent
vices and boisterous noises, that so oppress
one and affect one’s nerves, no wonder those
who can run away to the mountains and
vales, where it is possible to breathe freely
and sleep well, and come back refreshed and
invigorated to withstand the tumult of a
great city full of busy activity, bustle and
confusion. 
	The advertisement in this issue of the
paper of a class in Nursing and Obstetrics
calls to mind the great need there is of the
help of this kind for those who cannot
afford to pay the high prices of professional
nurses who have given years of time to prac-
tical study. Really it is an established fact
that every woman who looks forward to
motherhood should have some knowledge of
the physiology of her own body more than
that which is taught in the school-room.
Therefore we approve of all young women
taking a course of study in nursing. It is
also quite necessary, especially in country
places to have competent midwives, and in-
deed we believe that for all women, women
physicians are best. tI is good that we still
have a few graduated women physicians,
and it is much to be regretted that there are
so few of them. By all means let the Relief
Society encourage our sisters to study ob-
stetrics and pass a medical examination, so
that help can be obtained when needed
among the people. Knowledge is power is
as true now as it ever was, and a knowledge
of one’s own body is of the utmost conse-
quence to every woman, married, or single.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Elizabeth Yates died at Salt Lake
City, Utah, on December 31st, 1910, where
brief funeral services were held, presided over
by the Bishopric of the Emerson ward, after
which the remains were sent to Scipio, Mil-
lard County, for burial
	At a regular meeting of the Relief Society
at the Emerson Ward, held Jan. 3rd, 1911.
The following resolutions were read and
adopted:
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom, called from our midst, on Saturday.
December 31st, 1910, Elizabeth F. Yates; be it
	Resolved, by the officers and members of the
Emerson Ward Relief Society, of which Sis-
ter Yates was a faithful member, that we deep-
ly mourn her loss, and that we greatly appreci
ate the purity of her life, her wise counsel,
worthy example and the sweet influence of her
noble character, furthermore, be it


[Column 1]
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved
our sincere sympathy in the loss of a loving
mother; and be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, also that they
be made a part of the record of the Relief
Society and that a copy be sent to the Wom-
an’s Exponent for publication.
					Luella Harrow,
						Secretary.
	SKETCH OF ELIZABETH F. YATES.
	In the burial of Sister Elizabeth F. Yates
at Scipio, Utah, on Jan. 3, 1911, there was
closed the mortal career of another of that
splendid type of Pioneer Mormon Womanhood
of which Utah is so justly proud. Sister Yates
was born in South Moulton, Devonshire, Eng-
land, Oct. 8, 1833, and received the Gospel
there, being baptized and confirmed a member
of the Church on Dec. 4, 1851. On May 23,
1863, she had decided to make the sacrifice of
home, and sever all family ties, (for she was
the only one of a large family to receive the
Gospel) and emigrate to Zion.
	Leaving Liverpool on that date on the sail-
ing vessel Antararctis, seven weeks were spent
on the sea, nine days on the train, three days
on the Missouri River boat, and two months
and three days on the plains, arriving in Salt
Lake City with rejoicing and thanksgiving on
Oct. 3, 1863. Spending a year in Lehi, Utah,
she came to Scipio, then called Round Valley,
in 1864, and began the real life of a Pioneer.
	Her first home was a “Dugout,” of which
she was very proud. She often spoke with
pride of this humble home and rejoiced in the
fact that even in the days of her poverty she
was permitted to receive and entertain in this
primitive “dugout” home such prominent
Church officials as Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon and
other members of the Council of Twelve Apos-
tles.
	Sister Yates was a superior woman in every
way, dignified in appearance, impressive in her
address and humble in her spirit, she impressed
everyone with whom she associated, and her in-
fluence for good can hardly be estimated.
	She loved education and refinement, and in
later years, as opportunities came, on her
table could always be found the choicest liter-
ature.
	She was a subscriber for the Deseret News
from the time she came to Utah in 1863 and
for the Woman’s Exponent from its first pub-
lication, till her death, and for the Juvenile
Instructor from its first issue till after her
youngest child was married.
	She was always active as a Church worker.
As a Sunday School teacher, as an officer in the
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion and the Primary Association she wielded
a splendid influence among the young people
of her home ward, and many bear testimony
that they received their first impression of
correct living from Sister Yates.
	From July, 1876, till May, 1883, she was Pres-
ident of the Relief Society of the Scipio Ward.
On this latter date she was released from this
position to accept the Presidency of the Relief
Society of Millard Stake, which position she
filled with credit and honor until the fall of
1904, when she left the stake in order to be
near her children who had moved to Salt Lake
City and Ogden. Sister Yates was the mother
of nine children, six of whom, together with
her husband, Bishop Thos. Yates, who died
Feb. 23, 1903, had preceded her to the other
side.
	Dying in full faith in the Gospel she looked
forward to a happy reunion with these and
other loved ones, and left with those remain-
ing an incentive for good living, so that they
too may enjoy the society of those “gone be-
fore.”
	The end came peacefully in her beautiful
home in Salt Lake City, on Dec. 31, 1910. Her
son, Thomas J. Yates, and her daughter, Liz-
zie Y. Thompson (the other daughter Louie Y.
Robison being detained at home on account of
sickness) accompanied the remains to Scipio,
where she was tenderly laid to rest by the side
of her husband.
	The funeral services were beautiful and im-
pressive. Remarks were made by Frederic R.
Lyman and Orvil L. Thompson of the Millard
Stake Presidency, by the members of the Bish-

[Column 2]
opric of the Scipio Ward, by Patriarch Daniel
Thompson, a life long friend and associate of
Bishop and Sister Yates, and Elder Peter
Nielson, a counselor to Bishop Yates during
his long service in that position. All bore
strong testimonies of the splendid life and
character of Sister Yates and encouraged her
children, her twenty-eight grand-children and
her eight great-grandchildren, to emulate in
their lives her worthy example.
	Nothing could be more beautiful than her
life. While she was in possession of physical
strength she ministered to the physical as well
as the spiritual needs of her associates, and
no one was ever turned from her home un-
warmed or unfed.
	As her physical powers failed she was able
to spend much time in the Temple of the Lord
where she did work for many of her loved
ones who had passed away, and as the end ap-
proached she could well say: “Father, my
work is done, take me home to Thee.”
	Dinah Stoddard Wrigley departed this life
June 1, 1911. Whereas, it has pleased our
Heavenly Father, the Ruler of the universe,
Who doeth all things well, to remove from
our midst our beloved sister and co-worker
in the Relief Society of the Ferron Ward, in
the Emery Stake of Zion.
	Be it resolved, that we extend to the family
our sincere sympathy and appreciation of our
sister’s worth.
	In her death we realize the loss of a faith-
ful and energetic good woman, who was ever
ready to minister to the sick and needy, and at
all times doing whatsoever she could to help
the upbuilding of the Church of God on the
earth, and therefore has earned the great re-
ward which has been promised to the faithful
and entitles her to a glorious resurrection.
	Sister Dinah Wrigley was born at Callile,
Cumberland County, England, May 16, 1850.
She crossed the ocean when six years of age,
and came to Utah in the first handcart com-
pany in 1858. Her father died while crossing
the plains. She was chosen second counselor
in the Relief Society Board, when it was or-
ganized at Ferron in Dec. 1882, and has held
an honorable position in the same up to the
time of her death.
	May He who has said He will be a hus-
band to the widow, and father to the fatherless,
pour into the wounded souls of the bereft ones
in this dark hour of separation, the oil of heal-
ing.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions
be sent, with our sympathies to the bereaved
family, and that the same be recorded on the
records of our Society, also a copy be sent to
the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
			MARY J. KING, President.
			OLIVE M. OLSEN, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ON NURSE CLASS.
	The people of Snowflake Stake were sad-
ly in need of competent help in times of
sickness, especially in confinement cases.
Seeing this great need and realizing the con-
dition and circumstances of the people, the
Stake Board of Relief Society with the
hearty support and co-operation of the Stake
Presidency secured the service of Sister
Maud L. Ditty to come to Arizona and teach
a course in obstetric nursing.
	Sister Ditty came highly recommended by
Apostle and Mrs. C. W. Penrose and bear-
ing a certificate from “Her Majesty’s Board
of Midwifery,” London, England.
	She was a very thorough, competent
teacher. Her class work was a success in
every particular, and was looked upon as
being superior by our best local physicians.
	She came here under very trying circum-
stances as most of the towns of the stake
were under quarantine.
	The class work was opened January 23,
1911. There were twenty-three members.


Three were sent by the Stake Board and
one or two from several of the Relief So-
ciety associations throughout the stake.
	All the members completed the work with
good percentage. The lowest being eighty-
six per cent.
	Some of the ladies were mothers of large
families, others had to come a distance of
three miles, yet they attended the class al-
most daily. The average attendance was
twenty-two.
	The commencement exercises were nicely
rendered. Papers were read by the mem-
bers, interspersed with music and song.
Speeches were made to the graduates by
Sister Ditty, Bishop John Hunt and Pres-
ident Samuel F. Smith. The latter deliv-
ered a very beautiful and appropriate ad-
dress commending the work done by the
Stake Board, the teacher and students.
President Smith also presented the certifi-
cates. Thus ended a work which will be
greatly appreciated and be far-reaching in
its effects.
	Sister Ditty left immediately for Salt
Lake City.
					LULA J. SMITH.


SKETCH OF THE LABORS OF
		MARY J. R. WEST.
	Mary J. R. West first saw the light of day
Oct. 24, 1847. Born of goodly parents in
what is now Davis County, Utah. Her first
home being a wagon box.
	Her parents were called, when she was
a little girl, to help settle Parowan, Iron
County, Utah. Here she met and married
John A. West. They lived in Parowan un-
til 1878, when they were called to settle
Arizona. To Arizona they came, making
their home in Snowflake.
	Eleven children were born unto them.
Four of whom have gone to the great be-
yond. One of the little ones was a sufferer
all his life, requiring the constant care of his
mother, and to this child she was most earn-
estly devoted. He lived five years.
	Her trials have been many, but were met
with courage and fortitude.
	As an example of her nobility of char-
acter and her constant devotion to the sad
and motherless I will relate a few incidents.
	She had a half brother who was so badly
frozen when a child that his mental faculties
were impaired, and after the death of her
mother she took this brother into her home
and cared for him until death came.
	Another brother was left with five small
children, for these sister West cared until
they were grown. One of these girls died,
leaving a little girl, and her dying request
was for “Auntie” to care for her child. This
she did and is now doing a mother’s part
by the child.
	Sister West has always been faithful in
attending her religious duties. She was the
first president of the Snowflake Ward Relief
Society which office she filled with honor
for fifteen years. November 21, 1895, she
was set apart as second counselor to Emma
S. Smith in the stake Relief Society. She
served in this office ten years. She was
called to preside over the Relief Society in
Snowflake Stake August 11, 1905. At a
recent conference the President and Board
were honorably released.
	During Sister West’s administration she
and her board have accomplished very much


good in helping the poor and needy, the sick
and those who needed comfort, and they
have contributed liberally to the public build-
ings. The results of the nurse course which
was established during the past six months
will probably be more beneficial than any
other work.
	Sister West has had very poor health dur-
ing most of last winter. She was helpless
for a number of weeks.
	She left Snowflake May 23 for her home
in Salt Lake City, where she will now re-
side. We will miss her very much in this
Stake. She leaves with the love and respect
of her co-laborers and all who knew her. We
trust she will regain health sufficient to per-
form the labor in the Temple which she de-
sires to accomplish.
					LULA J. SMITH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	At the quarterly conference of the Snow-
flake Stake, held June 3 and 4, 1911, Stake
President of Relief Society, Mary J. R.
West, her counselors and board were hon-
orably released. These sisters have served
long and faithfluly.
	A new organization was effected as fol-
lows Nellie M. Smith, President; Belle H.
Flake, first counselor; Anna S. Shumway,
second counselor; Maud F. Ramsey, secre-
tary, and Lulu J. Smith assistant secretary
and treasurer.
				LULA J. SMITH.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	At the approach of warm weather the
housewife begins to lay away the heavy
wraps and bedding used in the cold weather.
One of the best means to protect the furs
and woolens from moth is the use of gaso-
line. Dip the whisk broom in the gasoline
and sprinkle it lightly over the clothing be-
fore folding, then if the articles are tightly
wrapped in newspaper and laid in your
boxes or on the closet shelves you need
have no fear of moth, of course the cloth-
ing thus placed away should first be
brushed and aired.
	Fine china plates are sometimes cracked
and broken by placing too many together.
The weight is likely to break the lower
ones in the stack.
	A little salt and gasoline sprinkled on the
velvet or brussels carpet cleans and bright-
ens it wonderfully. But one must always be
careful not to have any fire around when
using gasoline.
	For hoarseness. The juice of a lemon
and two table spoonsful of glycerine mixed
with a liberal quantity of honey will cure
hoarseness and is very good for coughs and
colds.					A. W. C.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual Conference of Liberty Stake
Relief Society was held in Ninth Ward
meetinghouse, June 22, 1911, Pres. Annie
S. Musser, presiding.
	Sisters Romania B. Penrose and Sarah
McLelland of General Board were present,
also Elder C. W. Symons of Liberty Stake
High Council.


After the opening exercises, Pres. Mus-
ser welcomed the sisters. The statistical
and financial report for the year ending
December, 1910, was read and accepted.
The general officers, also the stake officers
were unanimously sustained. A piano solo
was rendered by Sister Elnora Miller. Re-
ports were made of the first five wards of
Liberty Stake, all were progressing, and
in the line of their duty. Sister Maud Ken-
ner rendered the solo, “There is Sunshine in
the Soul.” Sister Penrose addressed us for
a short time on mother’s work, care of chil-
dren, also care of the body.
	Sister McLelland spoke on prohibition,
and the benefits to be derived by leading
temperate lives.
	After the closing exercises conference
took recess until 2 o’clock. During the
noon recess lunch was served to all present,
and a musical program rendered. Confer-
ence reconvened at 2 o’clock, after the op-
ening exercises Elder Levi E. Young gave
us a talk on the Signs of the Times, Relief
Society work, and related some early his-
tory of this Society, paid many tributes to
woman and motherhood, the talk was very
instructive and listened to with interest.
Sister Elnora Miller played a selection from
“Il Travatore.” Sister Sarah McLelland re-
lated some of her missionary experiences
and read a synopsis of her trip to Nauvoo.
Sister R. B. Penrose spoke of the early
trials and sufferings of the Saints, also of
her missionary labors in Europe. Elder
Symons urged all the sisters to work and
vote for prohibition; gave us some good
instructions, and encouraged us to continue
in doing good.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success,
and after the closing exercises, conference
adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


[Column 1]
			JORDAN STAKE.
	Conference minutes of the Jordan Stake
Relief Society held at Sandy, May 18, 1911.
Pres. Hildah H. H. Larson presiding, Maria
T. Goff conducting the exercises.
	President Emmeline B. Wells and her
Counselors, Clarissa S. Williams, and Julina
L. Smith were present. Meeting opened
by singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” Prayer by Stake Counselor
James Jensen. Continued by singing,
“Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere Desire.”
	Minutes of previous conference read and
roll called. Reports were heard from near-
ly all the wards, which were in good con-
dition, most of them owned granaries and
all were storing grain.
	Counselor Maria T. Goff felt pleased
with the reports and felt greatly honored to
have our dear President Emmeline B. Wells
and her counselors meet with us.
	President E. B. Wells felt pleased with
the reports given of Temple work done, and
complimented the sisters on the correctness
of reports given. Spoke of the great work
done by the Relief Society and urged the
sisters to do their duty as Relief Society
workers.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams was grate-
ful to the Lord for her position as a leader
in Relief Society work; urged us all to be
missionaries and get a better attendance to
our Relief Society meetings. The Lord has

[Column 2]
given us brains, so do not let them get rusty
but use them for a good purpose.
	Stake Counselor J. W. W. Fitzgerald
gave some good instructions to the sisters.
	Meeting closed by singing “High on the
Mountain Top.” Benediction by Elzina
Beckstead. Meeting adjourned till 2 o’-
clock.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened by
singing, “Come, Come Ye Saints.” Prayer
by J. W. W. Fitzgerald continued by sing-
ing, “How Firm a Foundation.” Minutes
read and approved.
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was pleased
to hear the stake was doing Temple work
as so many are waiting on the other side
for us to do the work for them. The
Prophet Joseph had said that all good and
virtuous women should belong to the Re-
lief Society. Let us as mothers do all we
can to stop the liquor traffic.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams thought
it a good idea that we had an honored list,
that is, of members too old and unable to
attend the saints’ meetings.
	We can all aim to be faithful and make
others love us.
	Pres. Hyrum Goff said: Sisters, oppose
everything wrong and uphold everything
that is right. Continue in working for the
dead as it is a glorious work.
	Pres. E. B. Wells said the Relief Society
was the oldest organization of women in
the world and was doing a great work in
caring for the sick and the poor. Bore her
testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Had never met another man so wonderful.
About $40,000.00 had been expended for
charity during the year 1910, by the Relief
Society in its stakes and branches, not in-
cluding missions.
	Pres. Hilda H. H. Larson felt to appre-
ciate that we all had had an opportunity of
hearing Pres. Emmeline B. Wells who has
had so much experience in Relief Society
work.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Closed by singing, “The Spirit of God.”
Benediction by Bishop W. D. Kuhre.
			ELIZABEETH GARDNER, Secy.
			ELIZABETH MONSON, Ass’t.


BECAUSE. 
Because women have to obey the laws just 
	as men do, they should vote equally with
	men.
Because women pay taxes just as men do, 
	thus supporting the government, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because women suffer from bad govern-
	ment just as do men, they should vote
	equally.
Because mothers need every help in mak-
	ing their children’s environment good, 
	they should vote equally with men. 
Because over 5,000,000 women in the Unit-
	ed States are in industry, and their health 
	and that of our future citizens is endan-
	gered by evil working conditions that can
	only be remedied by legislation, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because women of leisure that serve the 
	State in public matters should be able to 
	back their advice by their vote, they 
	should vote equally with men. 
Because busy housemothers and profession-
	al women cannot give such public ser-
	vice, and only serve the State by the 
	same means used by the busy men—


namely, by casting a ballot; they should
	vote equally with men.
Because women need to be trained to a
	higher sense of social and civic respon-
	sibility and such sense develops by use,
	they should vote equally with men.
Because women are the consumers, and the
	consumers need fuller representation in
	politics, they should vote equally with
	men.
Because women are citizens of a democracy,
	which is a government of the people, BY
	the people and FOR the people, and
	women are people, they should vote
	equally with men.
The Organized Enemies of woman’s suf-
	frage are the Liquor Interests, the Cor-
	rupt Corporations and the Corrupt Pol-
	iticians.
Why? Because Woman’s chief interest is
	the Home and Women will VOTE FOR
	THE HOME.
The Liquor Traffic breaks up the Home by
	causing crime and poverty.
The Corrupt Corporations tend to break up
	the Home by endeavoring to place the
	wealth of our country in the hands of the
	few, leaving empty the hands of the
	many.
The Corrupt Politicians make possible the
	business crimes of the Liquor Interests
	and the Corrupt Corporations.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PROGRESSIVE CATHOLICS.
	Catholic women have always distin-
guished themselves in church and charitable
work. In these latter days they are gradu-
ally coming into greater prominence in edu-
cation and public service.
	The Cathoilc girls’ high school in Phila-
delphia for the first time was this year ad-
dressed by a woman, Miss Agnes Repplier,
the Lateare Medallist of 1911 of the Univer-
sit[-] of Notre Dame.
	One of the six graduates from the law de-
partment of St. John's, Toledo, Ohio, was a
woman.
	It is reported that the Catholic Univer-
sity of America in Washington. D. C., is to
become co-educational in a measure.
Courses have been arranged for nuns. It is
expected that in the next few years the
work will grow and that the university will
make a special point of educating women for
orders. Sisters from Detroit, Mich., have
entered the university for the summer, and
it is expected they will pass the next two
years there working for the degree of B. A.
	Announcement is made that Sister An-
tonio Mercedes of St. Xaviers Convent,
Beatt[-]. Pa., has received the degree of doc-
tor of letters from Cardinal Gibbons. She is
the first American nun to win such a dis-
tinction. Sister Antonio. who is of Spanish
descent, belongs to the Sisters of Mercy.
For many years she has written articles on
religion under the pen name of Reverend
Richard W. Alexander.
	The "Catholic Women's Suffrage Soci-
ety," an efficient and active organization.
marched in the great suffrage procession in
London. A pamphlet which this society
takes pride in circulating is entitled "The
Views of Cardinal Moran and the Late Car-
dinal Vaughan on Woman Suffrage.”—
Woman’s Journal.


WOMEN LAWYERS.
	Miss Olive Conger, one of the successful
contestants at the recent bar examination,
was admitted to practice recently before
the Supreme Court of the District of Co-
lumbia at a meeting of the court in general
term. Miss Conger was admitted in ad-
vance of the other contestants because she
desired to leave Washington at once for
Los Angeles, Cal. She will take up the
practice of law in that city. Miss Conger is
an employe in the customs divisions in the
Treasury Department. She became a grad-
uate of the Washington College of Law
last May, and while at the law school took
first prize for work in the moot court and
second prize in point of scholarship. She is
a cousin of former Minister to China Ed-
ward Conger and of former Senator Conger
of Michigan. Before coming to Washington
Miss Conger was a clerk in the Iowa State
Legislature.
	Six more women took the bar examina-
tion, all graduates of the Washington Col-
lege of Law. They will not know their fate
until the fall.
	Women are not admitted to the bar in
Georgia, Virginia and Arkansas.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS. 
	An unusually interesting program is be-
ing prepared for the National Suffrage con-
vention which meets in Louisville, Ky., Oct. 
19 to 25. 
	New York newspapers report that the 
annual election at Larchmont-on-the-Sound
brought out many society women, who voted 
for the various officers and at the same time 
assisted in carrying the appropriation of 
$25,000 for the new village sidewalks. 
	The Woman Suffrage Association of the 
District of Columbia, having learned of the 
introduction of the Bristow bill, conferring 
the right of the ballot on men of the Dis-
trict, has adopted resolutions calling for its
amendment so as to include women, as well 
as men, as its beneficiaries. 
	The address delivered by Mrs. Carrie 
Chapman-Catt at the opening of the Sixth 
Congress of the International Woman Suf-
rage Alliance in Stockholm, is to be trans-
lated into the languages of all the civilized 
lands and given a world-wide distribution. 
Funds to defray the expenses involved were 
voted by acclamation. Mrs. Catt was re-
elected president of the Alliance. 
	Dispatches from Sweden state that the 
International Suffrage convention at Stock-
holm accorded a warm welcome to Rev. 
Anna Howard Shaw, president of the Na-
tional American Suffrage Association, the 
whole assemblage rising at her entrance. 
The Swedish papers speak highly of Dr.
Shaw’s eloquence at a service in the State 
Church, where she occupied the pulpit, the 
first woman to receive this honor. 
	Lord Brassey, at the age of seventy-five, 
has become a convert to the suffrage cause, 
and his accession to the ranks is one of 
considerable importance, for Lord Brassey 
is a peer who commands universal respect, 
who has always enjoyed a reputation for 
sound, common sense and level-headedness, 

[Column 2]
and who has led a very useful life. His 
wife, Lady Brassey, is a sister of Lord Es-
sex. 
	Trinity Church of Seattle, Wash., known 
as very “high church’ ’and conservative, at 
its recent annual church meeting elected a 
woman as alternate delegate to the Diocesan 
Council soon to be held in Tacoma. The 
woman is Mrs. Rowe, wife of Rev. P. T. 
Rowe, the famous Bishop of Alaska. Rev. 
H. H. Gowen is pastor of Trinity. In 
presiding over the meeting he ruled that 
women are eligible, though, as far as is 
known, this is the first time one has been
chosen in the Episcopal church. Mr. Gowen 
expressed a willingness to make Mrs.
Rowe’s election a test case. 
	Hon. Andrew Fisher, Premier of the 
Commonwealth of Australia, when inter-
viewed in London a few days ago, said:
“How any man of advanced views can fail 
to see the justice of the claim the women 
are working for—the power to vote on the 
same terms as men—I cannot understand. 
The only logical position that women can 
take is to demand equal rights with men. I 
am surprised that every labor man cannot 
see that. The participation of women in 
public affairs in Australia has proved a 
benefit to the Commonwealth and to the 
women. It has been an unqualified success.”
	The thirteenth annual commencement of 
Cornell University Medical College was held 
June 14. The graduating class, eight of the 
members of which were young women, 
numbered fifty-five. The first honors were 
carried off by Miss Dudley, of Brooklyn; 
second honors went to Miss Dean, of Mine-
ola; while two other young women were on 
the honor roll of ten. President Schurman 
delivered the address, and, referring to the 
progress that women are making in the 
world, he said: “Women everywhere are 
giving a splendid account of themselves. 
Two women have carried off the highest 
honors here today. Everywhere it is the 
same. The women stand exceptionally high 
in their classes.”


SCHOOL OF NURSING
and
OBSTETRICS

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts

	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence her
school in nursing, Monday, September 25, 1911.
Course continues eight months. Class in Ob-
stetrics will start October 9, 1911. (Those
who study Obstetrics are required to attend
the Nurse Class. No extra charge.)
	Though every young woman may not wish
to be a nurse, yet to know herself is an im-
portant matter to every woman.
Terms for Nursing.................$25.00
Terms for Obstetrics...............50.00
	Approximate cost of text books from $5.00
to $8.00.
	PLEASE GIVE AS WIDE CIRCULATION
AS POSSIBLE FOR THESE OPPORTUNI-
TIES FOR WOMEN.
	Write to Dr. M. C. Roberts for further in-
formation.
79 C. St., Salt Lake City.
Bell Phone 2002.


Mary Jarvis.
								WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.


Vol. 40.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1911						No. 2.


CONTENTS. 
Lillian M. Hollister.................................	9
Missionary Experiences..Lydia D. Adler	10
Hester Golding’s Testimony....................
	.......................Annie Wells Cannon	11
Relief Society Reports: 
	Wasatch Stake.................................	14
	Ogden Stake...................................	14
	Alpine Stake...................................	15
Notes About Women...............................	9
Notes and News...................................10,	11
Editorial: 
	Active Service................................	12
	Miss Alice Louise Reynolds...........	13
	Editorial Notes................................	12
	The Lund Home..............................	13
Poetry: 
	The Hermit Thrust......Mary Bailey	9
	Heredity.........Ella Wheeler Wilcox	9
	A Challenge..John Hendrick Bangs	11
	A Message from the Spirit World 
		............L. L. Greene Richards	14
	Good Enough for Me..B. S. Goodwin	16


THE HERMIT THRUSH.
There was a sunset and a wooded hill,
There was a summer evening and a hush,
Then clear from out the gold-[-]lecked depths so
still,
There came the wondrous soul-song of a
thrush.
And I was there to listen. Now the years
Are many since that evening and that song;
Thrushes make music now for other ears,
And other thrushes to that haunt belong.
By my sweet bird sang an immortal note,
The far call of a homesick heart for Heaven,
And, though the time and distance are remote,
Through all the weary waiting years at even
There comes a hush at sunset, 'mid the stress,
The rush of labor with its fret and care;
I seem to hear from out the wilderness,
That plaintive bird-song that was like a
prayer!
By Mary Bailey.
—From Dumb Animals.

HEREDITY.
There is no thing we can not overcome;
Say not thy evil instinct is inherited,
Or that some trait inborn makes thy whole
life forlorn,
And calls down punishment that is not mer-
ited.
Back of thy parents and grandparents lies
The Great Eternal Will. That, too, is thine
Inheritance, strong, beautiful, divine,
Sure lever of success for one who tries.
Pry up thy fault with this great lever—Will.
However deeply bedded in propensity,
However firmly set, I tell thee firmer yet,
Is that vast power that comes from Truth’s
immensity.
Thou art a part of that strange world, I say,
Its forces lie within thee, stronger far
Than all thy mortal sins and frailties are,
Believe thyself divine and watch and pray.
There is no noble height thou canst not climb;
All triumphs may be thine in Time’s futurity;
If, whatso’er thy fault, thou dost not faint or
halt,
But lean upon the staff of God’s security.
Earth has no claim the soul can not contest.
Know thyself part of the Eternal Source;
Naught can stand before thy spirit’s force;
The soul’s Divine Inheritance is best.
—Ella Wheeler Wilcox.


[Column 1]
		LILLIAN M. HOLLISTER.
	The sad news of Mrs. Hollister’s death
was indeed a severe shock to her many
friend among the women workers of the
world. Of the women’s societies of Utah, es-
ecially the organizations affiliated with the
National Council of Women, Mrs. Hollister
was a staunch friend and defender. Pos-
sessed of wonderful foresight, discretion and
wisdom, she had the gift to distinguish be-
tween the true and the false, and to appre-
ciate earnest endeavor with the courage to
extend her influence and encouragement to
all women in the cause of good.
	Lilliam M. Hollister, President of the
National Council of Women of the United
States and Supreme Commander of the
Ladies of the Maccabees of the world,
passed from life to that “Beautiful Isle of
Somewhere,” Friday morning, August 4,
1911, at her summer home, Lilley, Mich.
She was one of the country’s most power-
ful workers, both in the interests of women’s
organizations and women’s fraternal circles,
and there are few women’s societies in this
broad land which either through her lec-
tures or writings have not become familiar
with her charming personality. She was
born in Milford, Mich., and that state has
ever been her real home, though she has 
traveled extensively in many lands. She be-
gan her education when a child of four
years, walking a mile to the little red school
house. She had an excellent musical educa-
tion which training served her well in later
life, when as a public speaker she charmed
her hearers with her beautiful voice. Her
career was ever onward and upward—a
busy, unselfish, helpful life from school girl
to teacher, from teacher to superintendent,
—then writer, lecturer and philanthropist.
She compiled a number of very useful books
on parliamentary law, which are used large-
ly by the women’s clubs and organizations
throughout the country and was considered
one of the very best parliamentariens among
the women of the country.
	Mrs. Hollister was also associated with
the W. C. T. A., the Women’s International
and State Press Associations, Federation of
Women’s Clubs, Woman’s Relief Corps,
Order of the Eastern Star, Rebekahs and
the Degree of Honor. She has been sev-
eral times a delegate to foreign countries
from these different organizations and has
spoken before large assemblies in London,
Edinburg, and other European cities. She
was also one of the thirteen women chosen
to speak in the Lafayette Opera House,
Washington, D. C., on the 15th of Febru-
ary 1900, the occasion being the 80th anni-
versary of Susan B. Anthony’s birth.
	Mrs. Holister was a woman of command-
ing presence, with a fine, intellectual face
and a most charming personality. Some of
those who knew her worth and loved her 
best have sent us the following sentiments
for publication:
	Flo Jamison Miller, Cor. Sec. N. C. W.,
writes:

[Column 2]
	“A great woman has fallen, something precious
has been removed to a brighter world. The why
we know not, we dare not question. ’Tis enough
for us to feel and know that ‘God’s finger touched
her and she slept.”

	Think of her still as the same, 
		I say, 
	She is not dead, she is just away.”

	The Rev. Anna Shaw says—
	“I cannot express my sorrow on hearing of the
death of Mrs. Hollister. She was a woman who
had done more good works than any one dreamed 
of. She demonstrated the financial integrity and 
ability of women as few women have had the
opportunity to do. She has been loyal in every 
position in which she was placed.”

Mrs. May Wright Sewall—
	“I cannot grieve for Mrs. Hollister herself, but
I grieve for her friends and associate workers.”

	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Vice President
N. C. W.—

	“The news of Mrs. Hollister’s death is one of
the greatest shocks I have ever had.”

	There are many other expressions from
prominent women testifying to the great
worth of Lillian M. Hollister and the loss
sustained in her death by the women work-
ing along the different lines for the uplift 
of humanity. To the women of Utah she
was a true friend, and we mingle our tears
with those who loved her, knowing that one
of God’s chosen daughters has been called
home.—A.W. C.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	Thirty-four women are included in the
venire of 129 jurors drawn for the Septem-
ber term of the Supreme Court in the City
of Tacoma, Wash.

	At the convention of the Catholic Total
Abstinence Union in Scranton, Pa., a few
days ago, the Rev. Father Cassidy came out
strongly for woman suffrage, declaring
that the temperance cause needed the wom-
an vote.
	In reply to newspaper statements that
her official duties were unsatisfactory to
her, Mrs. Wilson, Mayor of Hunnewell,
Kansas, on August 13 wrote the National
Suffrage Association as follows: "The re-
ports recently published in the newspapers
about me and my attitude toward the work
in which I am engaged are unjust and ab-
solutely false. I am quoted as saying, 'Pol-
itics is not a woman's game.' I have never
made such a statement, nor have I arrived
at that conclusion. As to my resigning, I
have no intention of so doing; neither have
I any desire for such action. I am in a fight
for higher morals and a better city gov-
ernment, and I am confident that I shall be
victorious. The men of Hunnewell who
belong to the whisky and gambling ele-
ment are opposing me in every possible
way, but I shall stick to my post and earn-
estly endeavor to accomplish some reforms
that are greatly needed here."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
	What a refreshing Conference that was!
The words of commendation and encour-
agement from Presidents Platte D. Lyman
and Henry W. Naisbett brought joy and
comfort to our hearts. A yellow fog en-
veloped London, and it hung in clouds
overhead, in the Clerkenwell Hall, where
the Conference was held. Some of the
missionaries lost their bearings, on dis-
mounting from the 'busses, as the fog rolled
up in high banks over the streets and side-
walks. The second day it cleared up, then
one could scarcely stand or walk; in fact
we slid along on the slimy deposit the fog
left behind. This unsafe condition pre-
vailed, until a heavy rain washed the streets
and sidewalks clean.
	It was a time of rejoicing to meet our
friends and fellow laborers from all over
the Conference, and learn how they were all
getting along, and how the work of the
Lord was prospering. Then the sweet
voice of the Spirit poured out in Priest-
hood meeting, made the four or five hours
so spent speed swiftly away.
	After the Conference closed, the new
headquarters, 97 Farleigh Road, was dedi-
cated; the prayer was offered by President
Naisbett. In our own home at last, in a
most desirable quarter of the city, and a
place where even the Queen could be prop-
erly welcomed! Was it not glorious? I was
transferred from Watford to Stratford,
only a three half penny ride from the Con-
ference house, and given a companion, be-
side my little daughter May, which pleased
me very much. After a couple of days spent
in sight-seeing, we went to our field of la-
bor. The great Exposition of 1900 was on
in Paris, and the missionaries who wished
it were granted a couple of weeks' absence
to attend it. A party was to form in Lon-
don with whom we were to go, so we
awaited notice to join them. We crossed
the English channel in the night (and such
a lot of sick people!) Landing at Dieppe
we took train for Paris, reaching there
about 9 a. m. We went directly to a
house in the Latin Quarter, which was rec-
ommended by some of our friends. The
large rooms contained two or three beds,
but they were single, with down beds and
pillows. It was such a nice place! How
I rested in that bed! The first nice one I
had slept in for months. Although the
beds were so nice we could not stay in them
long, for we must be on the go early and
late. There was the city and surroundings
to see, beside the Exposition, where we
planned to go several days. The thought
of that good bed was often with me during
those days, how I wished I could take it
with me over to London, for the English
beds are proverbially hard, with heavy blan-
kets, instead of down quilts. Besides we
found no fleas there which stuck closer to us
than a brother in England, adding so much
of discomfort to our already uninviting lot.
"See Paris and die" it has been said, but we
say, "See Paris and live to tell of its beauty
and splendor." World Expositions may
come and go, but none will ever be like the
one at Paris. Gorgeous, chaste, wonderful,
exquisite, such an one, as only the French
people know how to bring together, for
beauty of effect. We have seen Exposi-
tions both before and since then, but none
are like unto it.
	The grand buildings of the nation pic-

[Column 2]
turesquely situated on either bank of the
Seine, their national colors flying from
many points;; the little steam tugs, that
carried us from so many points to it, the
revolving side walks, never seen before, car-
rying passengers without ever stopping, to
all points of the grounds, and the illumina-
tions on the river, which made it look like
a scene in Wonderland, all were enchanting,
enthralling! This, too, was the land of
Napoleon and Josephine. Reminders of
them are everywhere. Napoleon crowning
Josephine, a bewitching, immense painting
in the Louvre, brought the story vividly to
mind. To it we returned, time and again.
On the steps of the throne, Josephine kneels,
while Napoleon places the crown upon her
head. The power that gives can take
away. He bestowed the crown upon her;
afterwards he snatched it away from her
throbbing brow, heeding not her supplicant
form, or out-stretched, trembling hands.
The world calmly looked on while that
tragedy was enacted, thinking the end justi-
fied the means. But did it? "My Josephine,
my Josephine!" is softly sung by river and
breeze; the very ground speaks her name
at every step. He died alone on St. Helena;
then, not to be feared any longer, the
French people brought back his dust, to
sleep beneath a world-famed tomb. But he
is imprisoned still, while Josephine sleeps
beneath tree and flower, in God's glad sun-
shine, where the birds sing her name and
the night winds sigh above her. Is it any
wonder, that after visiting Versailles, Notre
Dame, Napoleon's Tomb, the Arch of Tri-
umph, the Madelaine, beside the other glo-
ries of Paris, that as we saw the river illu-
mination for the last time, and surveyed
the scene from the top of a 'bus, we ex-
claimed, "the only city we ever left with
such feelings of regret."
	After this delightful change, Miss Farns-
worth and myself devoted ourselves, early
and late, to our labors in Stratford The
branch numbered about seventy saints, the
largest I had labored in. After tracting
hours (when there were no meetings to at-
tend) we visited every one of the saints,
as soon as might be, in order to become per-
sonally acquainted with them all.
	In Watford I had come in contact with
three ministers, one of whom, on looking
at the tract I presented, and seeing "Mor-
mon" on it, indulged in a triade about our
faith and people, that amounted to an on-
slaught. "You know the doctrines you are
spreading are true, do you?" he asked. "I
do." And you have come across the water
to expound them here to us?" "Yes!"
"Then if you know they are true, stay
quietly in your own house and be satisfied."
I assured him that when one was convinced
of the truth he should warn his neighbor;
that was why I was there. As he quoted
passages from the Bible he walked up and
down his hall, rolling the poor little tract
into a ball, sometimes striking it within the
palms of his hands. He asked my name,
where I lived when at home, and many
other things, at the end of each answer
striking the inoffensive tract, and looking
defiantly at me. I did not have much op-
portunity to talk, but when the interview
ended, and I was outside the gate, I stood
still, resting against it for some moments,
to gather strength to proceed; then realized
that I had had an encounter with Lucifer
(for he had talked to me through this man).
I now had a clear understanding of what

[Column 3]
he thought of me, and his fervor, for I felt
as weak as though I had been in a personal
encounter. While I was still there, the
minister opened the door he had banged
shut, whether to let out the offensive Mor-
mon odor[---]o get fresh air after the bat-
tle I did [---] know. But this I did know.
Lucifer was a dread personality, and I
feared his great power. What a master he
would be—how he would chain his ser-
vants!
	At another house, that same afternoon,
another minister took the tract from my
hand, then seeing "Mormon" upon it,
slammed the door, saying, "Go home and
take care of your wives!" Opening the
door slightly, he looked at me and discov-
ered I was a woman.
	Another minister I met at his gate; he
was just going in with a tin pail of milk in
his hand. "Will you accept of a gospel
tract to read?" and presented one to him.
"Mormon?" he asked. Being answered in
the affirmative, he said, "Have you left one
of those in my house?" "No." "Well, I
will not let you leave one there. I forbid
you!" "Will you take the responsibility?"
I asked. "Yes." "Then remember," I
said, "that I have brought the gospel tidings
to you and yours, and you have forbidden
me to leave the message at your home.
Do you take this responsibility upon your-
self?" "Yes." "Well, I must be content,
as you are the master of your own family
and home, and have taken upon y[-]urself
the responsibility of rejecting it.
LYDIA D. A[-]DER.
(To be Continued.)


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Rheta Childe Dorr writes: “The
solution of our divorce problem lies in se-
curing a better relation between men and
women in every department of life. It is
an anomaly in this republic that there
should be any distinction on account of sex.
It is absurd that women should receive
lower wages than men for equal work per-
formed or equal service given. It is unfair
to deny women their share in public house-
keeping. It is unjust to tax them and at
the same time refuse them citizenship.
American women are as well educated, as
intelligent, as moral, as conscientious, and,
within their opportunities, as efficient as
American men. Once this is fully recog-
nized; once the last vestige of sex prejudice
and sex contempt vanishes from custom and
from the statute books; once the same stand-
ard of morals is recognized in society as it
is in law; once it is made at least as easy
for women as for men to earn an honorable
living; once marriage on absolutely equal
terms is made possible—no moral or phys-
cal advantage on the side of the husband,
no parasitism allowed on the part of the
wife—then it will be perfectly safe to at-
tach a divorce coupon to exery marriage
certificate, with permission for both par-
ities to tear it off at will.”
	Juarez, Mexico, claims to be the only
city in the world in which the direction and 
control of the city parks have been turned
over completely to women, a board of eight
women managers having exclusive control
of them.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A CHALLENGE.
Come, Worry, let us walk abroad today;
Let’s take a little run along the way:
I know a sunny path that leads from Fear
Up to the lovely fields of Wholesome Cheer.
	So, Worry, come along!

We started on our way, I and my Care.
I set the pace on through the springtime air.
But ere we’d gone a mile poor Worry stopped,
Tried hard to catch his breath, and then he
	dropped,
		Whilst I went on—
An easy winner of that Marathon.

And since that day when vexed by any fear,
When Worry’s come again with visage drear,
I’ve challenged him to join me in that race,
And found each time he could not stand the
	pace.
	—John Kendrick Bangs in September Ainslee’s.


[Column 1]
	HESTER GOLDING’S TESTIMONY.
	Hester Golding was a Mormon girl, born
and raised in Salt Lake City. When she
graduated from the High School she had
a very strong desire for a college education
but her father’s family was large and his in-
come small, so she had to curb her educa-
tional ambitions and face the reality which
so many boys and girls have to meet, of
providing for herself and assisting with the
home expenses. A good girl and well
trained, was Hester Golding, and she easily
won friends among her associates. She nev-
er, however, relied wholly on her own
strength or resources, but through her re-
ligious training she had learned to have
explicit faith in something beyond this life,
and her trust in her Heavenly Father was 
so sincere and unfailing that to Him she
ascribes all the success she ever had in life. 
	Notwithstanding the many calls made up-
on her and the low wages paid her for ser-
vices in the art department of the big store
where she found employment, she never
ceased to feel that she might yet acquire
further knowledge and opportunities if she
tried. She saved something every week
denying herself of course all the extrav-
agances and many of the necessaries that
other girls enjoy so. At the end of two
years she set out for Chicago to study art
in the university of that city.
	When Hester left the loved family and
her home city, where almost every face she
met was familiar and every building and
turning in the street was home, and where
all nature seemed to be a part of her self,
for in the evenings she would linger on her
way home from work to watch the beauti-
ful colors of the setting sun thrown on the
peaks of the purple hills to the east, and the
great red and golden clouds floating above
her and build wonderful air castles of her
future work, she little dreamed of the lone-
liness that would possess her when in that
great, busy city. She walked along the nar-
row streets walled in with towering busi-
ness blocks like great dark canyons, (not
broad city thoroughfares,) with the hurrying 
and bustling and whirling of a throng of 
strange figures, not one familiar face, not
one kind greeting. No desert could seem
more lonely, and the poor girl soon found
she must needs muster all her strength and
all her faith to enable her to stand it. She
also soon discovered that living at home
with mother was a very different thing to 

[Column 2]
living in a hired apartment, and that where
formerly little services were lovingly given
by mother now an exact payment was re-
quired for everything, and soon the poor
girl saw her meager savings big as they
looked at home would not be sufficient to
carry her through the first years’ work in
this strange city.
	Hester determined, therefore, to seek em-
ployment, believing she would be able to
work and still have some hours to give in a
home or an office if only some such position
might be found. Seeking employment in a
strange city is very different to seeking it at
home, and not having any references she
found homes closed to her, and her first at-
tempt in answering an advertisement for
girls led her into a trap from which she
escaped almost miraculously. Believing that
her guardian angel had helped her this time,
she made an earnest prayer to be led by the
Spirit of the Lord and to have discretion
where to go.
	The morning after her unfortunate en-
counter she read in the “Times” an ad for a
young woman to care for costumes and ap-
parrel, connected with an art school, and
she decided to make one more attempt.
	This morning she had no trepidation, no
fear, she had prayed earnestly and placed
her trust in God, and she went out armed
with perfect faith. When she reached the
building she was ushered into a waiting
room, where twenty women had preceded
her, applying for the position. She took a
seat near the door of an inner office and
watched while several applicants were ush-
ered in, and then passed out again evidently
not giving satisfaction. She observed
while sitting there the different types and
wondered what particular questions would
be asked and what different peculiarities
would be noted by the questioner. She felt
herself something different to them all and
though it might seem egotistic she felt this
difference, though undefinable, was some-
thing better. To her surprise she was called
before many who had been there when she
arrived, and something whispered, Give a
true answer to every question. She had ex-
pected to do this, but had thought the ques-
tions would refer to her ability and work,
whereas the great question was, Where are
you from? She might have evaded the 
straight answer and given the name and
street of her Chicago apartment, but remem-
bering the silent whisper, she promptly an-
swered, Salt Lake City. The typewriter in
the room ceased work, the bookkeeper
stopped his pen, there was not a sound heard
for fully two seconds, then the questioner
asked, Are you a Mormon? “Yes sir, I
am!” was the quick reply. And Hester
then thought, Well, I guess that ends my
interview, and her face, which at first she
felt had reddened by the consciousness of 
the steady gaze upon her, she knew had
turned pale, for her heart began to ache
with a fear of disappointment. But when
the questioner again spoke, she knew he
felt kindly, for he immediately said, I have
been in your city you call Zion, and I never
was treated so good in all my life, as among
you Mormons. Why they don’t consider it
any work at all to show a fellow all around,
let him hear the most beautiful music on
your wonderful organ, explain all about
your big buildings and refuse to accept a
cent for anything. What are you doing here
in Chicago, little girl? Studying art in the
university, and I need more means or I

[Column 3]
can’t stay the year out. I think I could do
this work in connection with my school.
“Why, so you can. Give your name and ad-
dress to the clerk and in the next room
Madam Moore will give you instruction as
to your work.”
	Hester afterwards learned that this place
was a department of the school she was at-
tending, and she was able to remain in
Chicago four years and take a degree in the
school of design and art, through having se-
cured this position. When she left her home
there were many friends who regretted her
leaving them, none more so than her as-
sociates in the costume department. When 
Hester refers to this experience it is with
greatest reverence, for she knows that her
Heavenly Father guided and guarded her
through those four years in the heart of a 
wicked city, and kept her pure in heart and
soul. 
	“Faith lights us through the dark to Deity.”
						ANNIE W. CANNON


NOTES AND NEWS.
	At a special meeting, held April 3, the
Corporation of the City of London passed
the following resolution: “We hereby pe-
tition Parliament to pass at the present ses-
sion the women’s suffrage bill now before
it that the Lord Mayor, together with the
other civic officers, go to present the peti-
tion to the bar of the House of Commons,
and that the reasonable expenses of the
Lord Mayor and the civic officials be de-
frayed from the borough fund.”
	Governor Shafroth is said to favor the
choice of a Colorado woman for Congress
if a fourth Congressional district is estab-
lished in that State. “We are bonud to get
the fourth Congressman,” the Governor is
reported as saying, in the Denver Express.
“Unless there is a constitutional obstacle,
and I know of none, there are women in
this State who could adequately fill the po-
sition.” Mrs. Katharine Williamson, Mrs.
Mary C. C. Bradford, and Mrs. Sarah Platt
Decker are all spoken of for the place.
	Colorado women will have to be reck-
oned with by the two old political parties in
the next campaign. They have started a
movement that has for its purpose the or-
ganization of a non-partisan party to force
the recognition of their political rights; al-
so to force the two old parties to nominate
good men and more women to public office,
as well as to bring about a more liberal dis-
tribution of patronage.
	It is but a poor standard of success that
is measured by gold and silver; a noble bear-
ing, a lofty brow, a kindly smile, a self con-
trol, clear eye, bespeaks a success that is
more real. The only victory worth making
is the victory over one’s self; the only real
success lies in the development of character
and insight; the only thing worth seeking
is the Soul; the only thing worth possessing
is the Truth; the only thing worth living for
is Love. And this is the greatest success—
to have ennobled your environment, to have
done good, to have given happiness, to be
happy; for Virtue alone wears a serene
smile, and Wisdom only is truly happy.—
Stanton Kirkham Davis.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	AUGUST, 1911


[Column 1]
		ACTIVE SERVICE.
	This term, active service, is not so com-
mon as work, and perhaps means quite as
much, if not more, both terms are used but
the world needs practical self-helpfulness,
not in word, but in deed. The old saying,
Satan finds mischief for idle hands, is as
true today as it ever was, and really one
who looks around nowadays, sees many idle
hands, and inactivity that produces stagna-
tion. The complaint “out of work, no em-
ployment” is heard on every hand, and yet
there is always something to be done and
people can find work, if willing to submit to
conditions, or to make exertions in the right 
direction. However, no one can settle this
question for the world at large, but every
individual who perseveres can find some
sort of work, that is better than idleness.
	The cause undoubtedly of so much sin and
crime in the present day is because people 
are not willing to do the work that is not
agreeable, and yet any work is helpful and
will keep one in better condition physically
than idleness and inactivity, which is more
or less deteriorating. Life has many phases
and the world is full of opportunities, and
the idea that there is not work to be done is
preposterous.
	Women as well as men seem to have an
idea that a certain kind of work is beneath
them, whereas all work of whatever kind
well done is better than idleness. Certainly
one must put thought into the work however
simple the task. Do the work well no matter
how commonplace the position; make it as
genuinely important as possible.
	In the early days in New England when
labor was considered honorable, building
stone walls around the farm was quite the
fashion, and gentlemen (so accounted) were
proud of the walls built with their own
hands, when every stone put into the wall,
and there were acres and acres of these
walls, was taken from the ground with their
own hands; on purpose to clear the ground
so that vegetables, etc., could grow as well
as to protect one’s own land, but the stories
we could tell of these primitive doings would
fill pages of history; but today a stone wall
left standing is a historic feature in the
scenery to be admired.
	In the early days in the valley here in
Utah, there were some stone walls, and peo-
ple who were anxious to denounce Brigham
Young and his ideas of what was expedient
in those times, had a great deal to say about

[Column 2]
the high stone walls, that were built round
some of the homes and gardens in the city
of Salt Lake, but it gave men some work
to do, to pay for food for themselves, and
families; and it is far better and makes one
more independent to work for one's provi-
sions or supplies than to have it given in
charity. It is all right to disperse charity
to the sick and those unable to work, but
not to men and women, who can work for
their living.
	The Latter-day Saints have always been
taught that idleness was sin; the Bible
teaches it, and it is through active work that
prosperity comes, and also happiness. “There
is no excellence without labor” is true today
and always will be.
	There seems to be a spirit of unrest abroad
in the world, that is against work of any
sort, and it will bring distress and misery
unless checked in some positive way that
will compel the idler to work. Activity in
the strict sense of the word means temporal
salvation.
	Among many of the young people of to-
day, there is a desire to do as little as pos-
sible of any sort of work, and to have every-
thing made easy for them; and this erro-
neous idea is leading many into temptation
that will eventually end in destruction of
soul and body. The very thought is hor-
rifying: what can be done, to resist the
growth of this unrest, this tendency to idle-
ness that is sweeping over the land.
	Some people assert that it is only the ig-
norant classes that are shirking the duties
and responsibilities of life; but this is not
correct, it is prevalent among those who
have had good advantages; if girls who
are out of employment want positions they
are very much in the habit of asking if they
can use the piano, and have you such and
such conveniences, every sort of new in-
ventions and appliances to make the work
easy, instead of having an actual desire to
do the work of the household.
	Boys all want to be clerks and lawyers
and doctors and so on, and who is to till the
soil, intelligently, and when is the grain and
the vegetables and the fruits to come from
when agriculture is looked upon as an oc-
cupation unfit for our young men of the 
present age.
	Practical work, active service will be the
temporal salvation of our young people, and
one may say too the spiritual salvation as
well, if it can only be fostered and encour-
aged and insisted upon, too much excite-
ment lowers the tone of human life.
	The inordinate passion for finery in dress,
and in the home is a depraved taste. Sim-
plicity in all the details of living is what
will bring about a material change that
would be helpful in every aspect, and there
would be less sickness and ill health and
would most assuredly promote the prolong-
ation of human life, which is proper and
desirable.
	The tendency of the age is in direct ap-
position to that which is pure and virtuous
and upright. People feel they must have
extravagances, beyond their means, must
go into debt, must mortgage their homes,
and enter into all sorts of schemes, and
policies and run risks of all kinds, to keep
up appearances, instead of living within the
limit of what they can honestly earn and
pay for. One has no right perhaps to say,

[Column 3]
where the blame lies, but in many cases, it
is to be like other people.
	The children must be kept in school year
after year when needed at home, because
other families keep their children away at
school or in colleges, and the home is neg-
lected because the mother cannot carry the
whole burden. Disaster often follows and
the home is involved or the rent is over-due
and so the home is broken up, the parents
over-worked, and family life utterly de-
stroyed.
	The home is the center of all that makes
for the betterment of communities and 
countries—the primitive ideas of home life
in Utah when the people settled in this new
land, that each family have a small piece
of land on which to build a home, and have
a garden and orchard, if ever so small, was
ideal. Naturally as the city grew there were
changes made, but we can still find some of
 these very same places, that have not been
sold, and the descendants of the original
owners in possession. Naturally after three
score years and more, many wonderful
changes in places and circumstances must 
have taken place, and progress must make
new methods and new paths and open up
avenues for improvement along many lines,
yet one can still persist in some of the 
original ways of living; that were vastly
better for life and health, and soundness
of mind, and strength of body, and activity
of brain than the practices and methods of
the present time.
	To be sure one is out of poise of the times
if you preach economy or industry the cry
is “we must have a good time” and that to
the majority of people nowadays means go-
ing hither and thither, late hours, all sorts
of pleasures, (that end in pain) and no mat-
ter where the money comes from! The
prospect is appalling. To one whose mind
is in tune with higher things, it is very de-
pressing, and what can be done to arrest this
terrible unrest?
	The best remedy lies in active service of
some kind, keep the girls within the shelter
of the home; and the boys too as much as
possible, teach them that nobility of work,
that all service is helpful in life, if done with
a true purpose, and done well, and that obe-
dience to parents, and to proper authority is
not humiliating, but on the contrary tend to
preserve order in home life as well as in
neighborhoods, communities, and keeps so-
ciety and the world in harmony with the
conditions that prevail as instituted by the
Creator of all things, and apparent every-
where throughout the universe, above and 
below.

“Yet scattered here and there, we some behold,
Who can discern the tinsel from the gold.”


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	The officers and members of the General
Board of Relief Society have been kept un-
usually busy this summer. Most of the
sisters have spent a large part of the sum-
mer attending stake conference. At the
present time nearly all the stakes of Zion
have been visited, the few that have not held
their conferences are principally those near-
by, that can easily be reached by train, and
therefore be held later in the year.
	The sisters are certainly to be congratu-


lated on the good work accomplished. These
annual visits to the different stakes bring
the women of Zion into closer relationship,
and are the means of broadening and ex-
tending the work. The genial hospitality of
the people in their homes and the grateful
expressions of satisfaction and pleasure
manifested towards the visitors is much ap-
preciated by the ladies of the General Board,
and repays them fully for the sacrifice they
make in leaving their homes and giving their
time to this great Relief Society work. The
mutual friend livers and affection existing
between the sisters of the different stakes,
and those of the general board is largely
due to these visits. Being brought into
closer relationship and exchanging ideas, as
well as receiving instruction from those in
authority, is certainly beneficial and helpful
to those engaged in the work. It has not
been deemed advisable by the authorities
of the Church for the sisters to visit the
stake in Mexico on account of the inward
disturbances in that country, but aside from
that it is believed that before the close of the
year Relief Society conference will have
been visited by the sisters in every stake of
Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISS ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.
(First Utah lady to obtain a degree in Eng-
lish University.)
	Miss Reynolds whose full name is given
above has returned recently from abroad,
where she has been studying and has suc-
ceeded remarkably well and reached the
dignity of receiving a degree in an honor
which comparatively few American women
have ever obtained abroad. She is the first
from Utah to receive this reward of merit,
and the Utah women are certainly honored
in her successful achievement of this dis-
tinction.
	It is a well-known fact that our boys and
girls have, when studying in colleges and
universities in America, been quite success-
ful in any line of education as specialists or
otherwise which they have undertaken.
	The women of Utah will feel a pride in
the success of Miss Reynolds and will look
forward with fond anticipation to results in
her future pursuits of knowledge in the lines
of work wherein she has specialized.
	It has long been known among the peo-
ple of this state, that Miss Reynolds was a
brilliant scholar, and was doing excellent
work in the Brigham Young University.
And now we are justly proud that she has
been awarded this "high degree," from so
famous an institution as the London Uni-
versity. It is very well known how critical
these learned professors are, and therefore
we feel assured that Miss Reynolds has
"won her spurs" honorably and must have
been diligent in season and out of season,
or she could not have succeeded in meriting
the honor conferred. We are aware that
it is quite impossible to slight one's work
in those old and famous instiutions of learn-
ing.
	Miss Reynolds held the position of As-
sistant Professor of English in the Brigham
Young University at Provo for sixteen
years, and fianlly decided to travel through
some of the European countries and study

[Column 2]
in some of the famous institutions of learn-
ign in other lands.
	It is well understand that women students
at Oxford and Cambridge and other great
English schools are not granted a degree,
this is only done in the University of Lon-
don—therefore Miss Reynolds made choice
of that celebrated institution—and studied at
three of the many colleges of that Univer-
sity King's College on the Strand in South
Kensington and University College. The
courses she selected were special studies in
Tennyson, Arnold and Browning and a
course in higher criticism by Professor Ker,
a course in the romantic poets, by Guth-
keltch, and one in English history, by Pro-
fessor Polland. She also did research work
in the library of the British Museum, on
the history of the Tudor period and in the
life and works of Browning.
	Miss Reynolds it appears, had privileges
of social intercourse that are new to some of
us not familiar with English schools, etc.
	One very charming feature is a 4 o'clock
tea served in the women's rooms, and con-
siderable friednliness prevails during that
hour among the students. Chapel was an
interesting period, no one is admitted ex-
cept wearing the regulation costume. There
are many very new and interesting things,
that could be mentioned in connection with
Miss Reynolds' studies in these great old
English institutions and libraries—and it is
well for women who are desirous of gen-
eral information along literary lines to be-
come acquainted with these things from
those who have been among these wonderful
places and actually partaken of the uplifting
tendency of the higher and broader fields
of advancement and have come home to us
with the humility that is characteristic of a
true Latter-day Saint.
	Miss Reynolds has visited many of the
old cities on the continent, and we all know
travel is educational in the truest sense to
those who are at all observing, consequent-
ly the lady must have a mine of informa-
tion to impart to those who come within her
sphere of activity. She has been invited and
is expected to make an address during the
afternoon of the Relief Society Conference
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City,
early in October—the date not yet an-
nounced.


[Column 1]
		THE LUND HOME.
	How many women in the Church, I won-
der, know anything about the institution
known as the Lund Home. Shortly after
the years work of the Betterment Committee
—a work undertaken by some citizens purely
out of love for the youth of this city who
seemed to be just growing like weeds in big
gardens or undergrowth in some dense for-
est without discipline of any kind, without
care, and yet children of the state who. if
taken in hand by some one and guided aright
might become good and useful men and
women in the community, well. as I started
to say it was the conditions of these, shall
we call them wayward boys and girls or just
uncared for boys and girls that led some of
our thoughtful men to raise means and use
influence with the authorities to purchase a
large tract of land gaining a piece already
owned by the Church which had school
building thereon, and open a home for boys.
This home is kept up almost wholly by the
Church, and besides providing a home for

[Column 2]
these little fellows where the kindest atten-
tion possible is given them, it also affords
opportunity for work, school and play. The
only regret connected with the intsitution is
that enough people are not sufficiently inter-
ested to assist in this good work by contrib-
uting somewhat if ever so little towards the
place. A home such as this for children
should be made attractive with beautiful
pictures, good books, and pretty things so
far as possible and there are many people
no doubt who would be glad to give some-
thing of this kind to the home, if the mat-
ter was brought to their attention. While
the founding of this home was a beautiful
idea, one wonders why some such similar
place was not provided for little girls as
well. Don’t think that the boys are the
only ones necessary to save, and those who
know will tell you that it is much easier to
reform a boy who has gone wrong than it is
to reform a girl. Probably one reason for
this is that the boys are soon taken charge
of by the officers, while the girls inclined to
do wrong are left longer in the home where
the environment is anything but what it
ought to be.
	One of the women officers of the Juvenile
Court, when talking to a father about his
fourteen-year-old girl one day, was told by
that unworthy parent, that the only way to
deal with that girl was to take an ax to
her;” the lady replied, “No wonder your
little girl is delinquent when you speak like
that.” This same little girl was allowed to
remain in that home with that father and
the environment that such a parent would
naturally have in his home for two years,
and at the end of that time it became nec-
essary for the Juvenile Court to send her to
the State Industrial School, where she now
is an immoral degenerate. Perhaps had
there been a home for girls similar to the
Lund Home for boys, where she could have
been placed earlier, she might have been
saved. The work of the Big Sisters in try-
ing to reform and care for the girls after
dismissal from the Industrial Home, is most
commendable, but how much better it would
be could we save the little girls before the
Industrial Home becomes the only alterna-
tive, for after they have once been inmates
of that institution it is almost hopeless to
try to reform them. With the boys it is
different, they are in for petty thieving,
truancy, and delinquency and such offenses
and the reformation is not so hard, but with
education and proper training they leave the
Home wiser and better but the Superin-
tendent will tell you if you ask, and it is
known to be true, that almost every girl
there is immoral, and when she is discharged
she doesn’t as a general thing, care to re-
form, but in her maturer years prefers the
indolent rollicking life of the underworld
to the higher, better life of true woman-
hood. The blight is on her and she cannot
throw it off. Mothers, don’t your hearts
ache when you think of these poor girls.
Fathers, don’t you think a home should be
provided to save these little ones from sin:
God bless those who strive to help human-
ity in any way, but surely most of all those
who try to save humanity.
				ANNIE W. CANNON.


The much-coveted red ribbon of the Le-
gion of Honor has been won by Mme.  Le
Barillier, of Paris, who has acquired fame
as a poet and story writer under the name
of Jean Bertheroy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A MESSAGE FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD

Little Helen’s spirit speaks—
	List, oh mother, hearken!
“Here the sunny days and weeks,
	Nothing comes to darken.

“Tell our loved ones, on the earth,
	Not to grieve, so lonely;
In this new and heavenly birth,
	There is brightness only.

“Tell dear papa to be brave,
	Pure and noble ever;
So in life beyond the grave,
	We’ll be parted never.

“And our sweet Virginia May,
	(Precious little sister!)
While she prayed the other day,
	I drew near and kissed her.

“Tell her angels truly write,
	All she’s ever saying,
And they smile in such delight,
	When she’s humbly praying.

“Tell dear grandpa, kind and true,
	In my new position,
That to love and help him, too,
	Is, in part, my mission.

“Little children, every one,
	Aid in preparation
Of the great work being done
	For the world’s salvation.

“There were few things on the earth,
	I could do, if any,
Of real, lasting use and worth—
	Here I find so many!

“It was hard to part with you,
	We so loved each other!
But if you could have one view
	Of my new life, Mother—

“You would never wish me there,
	Dreading pain and sorrow;
Here I have no cross to bear,
	Joyous comes each morrow.

“Every day new pleasure brings
	Some new form of beauty;
We all do such happy things,
	Works of love and duty.

“Grandpas, grandmas, cousins dear,
	Hosts of friends and neighbors,
Are so kind and helpful here,
	Sweet are all our labors.

“Sweeter far than play on earth,
Blissful songs and gentle mirth,
	Work is recreation;
	Free from all temptation.

“And the joy of doing good
	Is such holy gladness;
Mother, if you understood
	You would conquer sadness.

“As you grow more reconciled,
	I shall oft be near you,
And the presence of your child
	Will uplift and cheer you.

“But through heavy clouds of grief,
	I’ve no power to reach you,
Cast them off, and find relief,
	Dearest, I beseech you!

“Sneak good words to some poor heart
	Which, like yours is stricken,
And the hope you thus impart
	In your own shall quicken.

“Let your hands be busy, too,
	Comforting some other;
And the Lord will strengthen you,
	Darling, sweetest Mother!

“Papa, mamma,—oh so dear!
	Jesus loves to bless you;
While your Helen hovering near,
	Yearns so to caress you.

“Visit oft the House of Prayer,
	Learn best ways of living;
Trust the Father’s loving care,
	Tender and forgiving.

[Column 2]
“Think not much of worldly wealth;
	Fleeting are earth’s pleasures,
But regard your strength and health—
	These are priceless treasures.

“Search the Scriptures, look aloft;
	Pray, your sins confessing;
Then you’ll feel my presence oft;
	Come with some new blessing.
				—L. L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The Wasatch Stake Relief Society Con-
ference was held in the Stake Tabernacle,
July 14, 1911.
	Morning Session, 10 a. m.—President
Joannah E. Jensen presiding. After sing-
ing and prayer. A chorus. German sisters
of the Midway Second Ward.
	Sisters Thomas and Edna May Davis
of the General Board were present, also
President Murdock and Jensen, High Coun-
selors; Robert Lindsay and Henry L. Mc-
Mullen and Patriarch Thomas Hicken pres-
ent.
	The general and Stake Relief Society offi-
cers were sustained by a unanimous vote.
Words of welcome from the President,
Joannah E. Jensen. Heber Third Ward re-
ported as being in a good condition, by the
president, Elizabeth Hicken. Midway First
Ward reported as being in an average con-
dition, by first counselor Emily Coleman.
The Stake reported as being in good con-
dition by the second counselor, Sophia Luke.
	Duet, “Love at Home,” Sisters Jenta
Murdock and Gladys Davis of Heber Sec-
ond Ward.
	Mother’s Work Lesson, “Home Influ-
ence,” given by Sister Mary L. Willes,
Heber Third Ward.
	Sister Anna R. Duke spoke on Relief So-
ciety work, trials of the Saints in early
days and the great blessings all are enjoy-
ing at the present time.
	President James C. Jensen spoke on the
duties of Relief Society mothers and the
eternity of the marriage covenant.
	Sister Edna May Davis, one of the new
members of the General Board, said she was
pleased to be with us, always responded to
the call of authority placed over her. We
each have a mission to perform. Be hum-
ble and prayerful. Spoke on duties of daugh-
ters to parents. Pure thoughts. Her wel-
come in our midst and love to all.
	President Joannah Jensen requested the
three Heber Wards, to care for the outside
wards and see that all had dinner. After
singing, “Marching Homeward,” and bene-
diction by Brother Robert Lindsay, session
adjourned.
	Afternoon Session, 2 p. m.—Singing,
“Nay Speak no Ill.” Prayer, Patriarch
Thomas Hicken. Singing, “Come let us
Anew.” Reading, “Call of the Relief So-
ciety,” by Sister Isabell Penrod of Walls-
burg.
	Remarks of encouragement given by
Brother Henry L. McMullen.
	Vocal Solo, “‘Vale of Dreams,” Sister
Jennie Ross of Midway.
	Lecture, “Possibilities of Relief Society
Work,” Sister Annie Stevens.
	Singing, “If there is Sunshine in your
Soul.” Reading, “The Lost Word,” Sister
Lizzie McDonald, of Heber First Ward.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas of the General
Board said she was pleased to be here.

[Column 2]
Wanted all to appreciate the Relief Society
work and the advantages we enjoy at the
present time. Relief Society work is an all
round education within itself. Teach our
children the history of the Latter-day Saints.
Love and reverence for the pioneers. Home
life and its responsibilities. Be good wives
and mothers, for that is the greatest mis-
sion of woman.
	Duet, “There is Hope Beyond the Vale,”
by Sisters Lettie Jensen and Arbelia Har-
vey, of Center Ward.
	Timely and encouraging remarks by Pres-
ident Murdock. Sister Jensen thanked all
who had helped make the conference a suc-
cess.
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction, Brother Robert Lindsay.
				Carlie C. Tidwell, Sec.

		OGDEN STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference held
in Relief Society Hall, Ogden City, July 19,
1911, commencing at 10 a. m.
	We were honored with a visit from Sis-
ter Emmeline B. Wells of Salt Lake City,
President of all the Relief Societies through-
out the world. Also Sisters R. B. Penrose,
Amy B. Lyman, and Edna May Davis, mem-
bers of the General Board, and Annie Wells
Cannon, President Pioneer Stake.
	President Sarah M. Taylor presided and
conducted the exercises, after exercises, roll
call and prelude, prayer was offered by Sis-
ter Sarepta E. Cowles. Congregation sang,
“Oh Ye Mountains High.” Minutes read
and approved.
	President Taylor gave a few words of
welcome and hoped the spirit of the Lord
would be with us that we might have a
profitable time. President Taylor of the
Fourth Ward, Counselor Jensen of the Sixth
Ward, President Grace McFarland of
Huntsville, President Rosetta Shaw of the
Seventh Ward and Annie T. Dee of the
Eighth Ward reported.
	President Margaret Dodd of Eden and
Counselor Cora Budge of Pleasant View,
each gave encouraging words of what Re-
lief Society work had done for them, and
were thankful they were permitted to work
in so glorious a cause.
	A duet was very nicely rendered by Sis-
ters Beatrice L. Tribe and May L. Hobson,
members of the Stake Board.
	Sister R. B. Penrose of the General Board
was the next speaker, was delighted to work
in the cause of Relief Society and urged
strict attention to attendance. Many are
not living up to the principles of the gospel,
and it is for the Relief Society to gather in
the stray children and look after the way-
ward boys and girls. The work is growing,
there are sixty-two stakes engaged in Re-
lief Society work and fifty-three branches in
Great Britain, and others out in the world.
Prayed the blessing of the Lord would be
upon this work.
	Congregation sang, “High on the Moun-
tain Top.”
	President E. B. Wells referred to the first
organization of the Relief Society in Weber
Stake which occurred thirty-four years ago,
when Sister Jane S. Richards was appointed
president, paid a glowing tribute to her.
There were seven sisters present in the con-
gregation who attended the meeting at the
time of the organization, which was effected
by President Brigham Young. “Every wom-


[Column 1]
an in the Church who is a mother should be
a member of the Relief Society, value your
membership, there is nothing greater in the
world than doing the work the Savior did in
visiting the sick and helping the poor. There
is no organization of women in the world so
great as the Relief Society. It is not only the
first for women, but the greatest because of
the value of the work done in saving souls.”
Referred to the work that is taken up in Salt
Lake in regard to the wayward girls out on
parole from the industrial school, the same
work will be taken up here if it is not al-
ready. Also referred to mothers work. The
lectures should be given as much as possible
by Relief Society workers. Spoke of the
Chautauqua as being educational and ad-
vised all that could to visit the “Round
Table.” Prayed the blessings of the Lord
would attend all that we may feel encour-
aged and full of joy.
	President Taylor invited all to remain for
refreshments and enjoy the Social Hour.
	Congregation sang, “Zion Stands with
Hills Surrounded.”
	Adjourned until 2 o’clock after benedic-
tion by Sister Sarah E. Brown.
	Afternoon Session.—President Sarah M.
Taylor presiding. After roll call and pre-
lude, prayer was offered by Brother E. J.
Larkin of the High Council. Congregation
sang, “Oh, Say, What is Truth?” Minutes
read and approved. President Annie T. Dee
of the Eighth Ward gave notice that a prom-
inent woman, Mrs. Owen Wister, travel-
ing and lecturing in the interest of the Civic
League would visit Ogden, and invited all
to hear her. Also extended an invitation to
all the women of Ogden to visit the “Dee
Memorial Hospital” to see how it is man-
aged.
	Counselor Isabel Foulger spoke upon the
sacrament meeting and word of wisdom,
giving excellent ideas and thoughts regard-
ing these subjects. Instrumental music by
the Misses Wright.
	Sister Amy B. Lyman of the General
Board. Was very much pleased with our
outline work, was quite up to date and was
glad we had taken up Sanitation, something
that is so much needed. Also pleased with
the reports, especially where more families
were visited than were members of the
Church, liked the spirit of hospitality, hoped
the time would come when we would have
more young mothers in Relief Society work.
Urged the mothers to train their girls for
home life.
	Brother Elijah Larkin of the High Coun-
cil, paid a high tribute to motherhood, and
the kindness of the sisters to the missionary
boy, and the great good done by Relief
Society work in general. Spoke of the
Chautauqua, that it would be held during
the month. It is for education and devel-
opment and would also be entertaining in a
musical way.
	Musical selection, the Misses Wright.
	Sister Edna May Davis of the General
Board advised the mothers as to the cloth-
ing that should be worn by the daughters
of Zion in going through the temple. Should
be plain and neat, not much trimming, but
beautifully simple, and read some para-
graphs from the Book of Mormon applic-
able to our time.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon, President of the.
Pioneer Stake, was pleased with the beauti-
ful spirit that was in our midst. All the
sons and daughters of God are equal, and

[Column 2]
the Relief Society is open to all good wom-
en, in it we have much to broaden our minds,
we improve ourselves and scatter incense to
those around. “There are many evils con-
fronting us, especially the young, then let us
get them into our associations and it will
be a safeguard to them.”
	President E. B. Wells was sorry Sister
Jane S. Richards, on account of feeble
health, could not be with us. One who had
labored so long and has done so much good
among the weak and the tempted, and the
needy. The teachers are the backbone of
the Relief Society. To be a teacher is the
way to get an education in the work, had
been a teacher herself. Spoke of the Wom-
an’s Exponent, was the first woman’s paper
published this side of the Mississippi river, is
a paper all should read, and hoped more
would subscribe for it, and hoped the presi-
dent would see that an agent is appointed.
Bore her testimony to the divinity of the
work and of the divine mission of the Proph-
et Joseph Smith, also urged the sisters to re-
member the dead, we have a work to per-
form for them. Hoped the blessings of the
Lord would rest upon all.
	President Taylor stated we would do the
best we could for the Woman’s Exponent
to make it a self-supporting paper. Felt
highly honored in having Sister Wells, and
the members of the General Board with us
and felt to give them a vote of thanks in
behalf of the Ogden Stake, it was a unani-
mous vote. Conference was adjourned for
three months.
	Congregation sang, “God be with you till
we meet again.” Benediction by Eliza Rhees
of Pleasant View.
		—Elizabeth M. Goddard, Asst. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GOOD ENOUGH FOR ME.
	[Composed and recited by Mrs. B. S. Good-
win, Beaver, Utah, on the 17th of March, 1911,
President Ward Relief Society and Hand Cart
veteran of 1856.]

	I have read of beautiful islands
		Surrounded by the deep,
	Where the leaves never fade.
		And the skies never weep.
	I care not for tropical beauties 
		Or the splendors of the sea—
	The Rocky Mountain valleys
		Are good enough for me. 

	I have gazed on the Grampion mountains.
		Back in my childhood days—
	The heather hills and mossy dells
		And climbed the Gowany braes.
	I have seen the great ships anchored
		in the harbor of Dundee,
	But Utah’s vales, her hills and dales
		Are good enough for me.

	I have seen the great cathedrals,
		Of rich carvings, and stained glass,
	With lofty towers, symbols of power,
		And admired them as I passed.
	They cannot be compared
		To our Temples grand and fair.
	Where God’s saints with bended knee.
		Worship in most holy prayer.
	
	I have seen the protestant churches,
		With dome and lofty spire,
	As if to say, come worship this way: 
		Our aims are purer, and higher.
	I care not for all of Christendom,
		Among themselves they do not agree
	I am content to be a Saint—
		That is good enough for me.


I have often heard of the sunny south,
		And the days of “long ago,”
	Others talk of the frozen north,
		The lands of ice and snow,
	But the glorious West, I love the best,
		No fairer sight can be,
	Than Utah’s snow capped mountains,
		They’re good enough for me.

	I have worked behind the great mill gates
		Ten hours each day, shut in
	Where a thousand shuttles flew at once
		That made terrific din;
	I am glad we left old Babylon,
		For Utah’s vales so free—
	A home and friends in Beaver town—
		Is good enough for me.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
			NEBO STAKE. 
	The uarterly conference of Nebo Stake
Relief Society was held March 31, 1911, at
Payson, Utah. Conference convened at 10
o’clock a. m., President Eliza J. Dixon pre-
siding. President Dixon made opening re-
marks, and gave in a report of Nebo Stake
Relief Society. Sister Martha S. Kapple
reported the visits made to the various
wards during the year, and spoke words of
encouragement to the sisters.
	Sister Dixon read an article on the duties
of the Relief Society.
	Sister Tompson reported Spanish Fork
First Ward in good condition, and bore her
testimony to the truth of the gospel. Sis-
ter Jones reported the Third Ward of Span-
ish Fork in good condition. Sister Snell
reported the Fourth Ward of Spanish Fork
in good condition and doing their duty. 
	Recitation by Sister Simmons, entitled
“The Shipwreck.”
	Sister Broam reported Eureka Ward do-
ing remarkably well under their circum-
stances. Brother Jacob Sharer said he was
surprised (after listening to the reports of
the various wards) at the amount of good
the Relief Society was doing, and the great
work they are performing. Said it is the
work of the Lord. Spoke of the influence
women have had in the history of the world. 
	President Dixon made a few closing re-
marks. Morning session adjourned. 
	Continued at 2 o’clock, Prest. Eliza J. 
Dixon presiding. Sister Martha S. Kapple
in charge. After the usual opening exer-
cises, Sister Pickering gave a report of Pay-
son, have good attendance, are doing good
work. Sister Forcey reported Mammoth
doing good work, taking care of the sick,
and feeding the poor. Sister Greenhalch re-
ported Santaquin doing good work and
prospering. Sister Pierce reported Salem
in good condition. Sister Kapple was
pleased with the reports of the various
wards. Sister Evans read a revelation from
Doctrine and Covenants, given through
Joseph Smith to Sister Emma Smith, and
commented upon it. 
	Duet by Sisters Gardener and Nebeker,
entitled Madaline. 
	Brothers Hanks was always pleased to at-
tend conference of the sisters because the
spirit of the Lord is always with them.
Brother Nebeker said the sisters had the
spirit of their work. Brother Ryde spoke a
short time and read a passage from the
Bible where it said there was a time for all
things, praised the Relief Society for their
excellent work. Sister Dixon was very


[Column 1]
much pleased with the excellent work the
sisters were doing. Conference adjourned
for three months after singing, “Come, Let
Us Anew Our Journey Pursue.” Benedic-
tion by Sister McKell. Sister Dixon thanked
the sisters for their hospitality.
—E. A. Hawkins, Cor. Sec.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Nebo
Stake, held June 23, 1911, at Spanish Fork
Second Ward meeting house. President
Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After the usual
exercises Sister Tompson spoke a few words
of welcome. Sister Dixon made opening re-
marks, was pleased to have our visiting sis-
ters of the General Board with us, was
thankful for the different organizations and
the opportunity we have of improving the
talents God has given us. Gave a report of
Nebo Stake Relief Society. Clarissa S.
Williams, first counselor to President E.
B. Wells in the General Relief Society,
spoke for some time, said what is a trial to
one is not a trial to others. Advised Relief
Society teachers to visit every family that
lives in the ward whether they belong to
our Church or not, and testify to them of
the truthfulness of the gospel; it is our duty
as members of our Church. President E. B.
Wells sends her love and blessing to the
sisters of the Nebo Stake. Sister Emily S.
Richards of the General Board talked for
some time, was grateful for the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society. “We should be
careful what we say of others, for one
word spoken is hard to recall because it
soon spreads.”
	Recitation, Sister Maggie Ludlow, en-
titled “The Organ Builder.”
	Sister Money said she had belonged to
the Church over sixty years, accepted the
gospel in Scotland, had seen the power of
God made manifest many times, told of
crossing the plains and how she had been
blessed. Conference adjourned until 1:30
o’clock p. m., after singing, “For the
Strength of the Hills we Bless Thee,” and
benediction by Sister Evans.

	At 1:30 o’clock conference reconvened,
president Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing, “Come, Come, Ye Saints.” Prayer,
Brother Gardener. Singing, “High on the
Mountain Top.”
	Sister Emily S. Richards said we should
take our children into our confidence and
make them our companions, should talk to
them on the sacredness of motherhood and
fatherhood, should extend our hand to the
fallen and those that make mistakes.
	Song by Sister Edna Holt, entitled “Some
Other Day.”
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams thought
our children should be married in the temple
for time and eternity, and asked parents to
encourage their young people to go to the
temple and go with their own temple clothes.
Advised the Relief Society to keep temple
clothes to rent, teach your daughters the
sacredness of the temple clothes. It is our
duty to do all we can to make ourselves
worthy of our children, and our children
worthy of us. Said we put too much trust
in the family doctor and not enough in our
Heavenly Father. We should sustain those
that are called to preside over us.
	Song by Sister Davis.
	Brother Lemon spoke for some time on
the work of the Relief Society, should teach
the sisters how to train their children; we
have to learn here a little and there a little;

[Column 2]
we are not all alike, but should treat all
right and not say anything bad about any
one, even if we don’t like them. Said we
should accept the gospel and live it. Broth-
er Joseph Reece said much depended on the
mothers in Israel, most good boys and girls
have good mothers. There is no greater
work being done in the Church than is be-
ing done by the Relief Society, asked the
blessings of the Lord on the sisters. Brother
August Swensen said he had enjoyed the
remarks that had been made also spoke on
voting on the liquor question at our coming
election, June 27. Sister Dixon made clos-
ing remarks, and thanked the good sisters
of Spanish Fork for their hospitality. Con-
ference adjourned for three months, after
singing “Doxology” and benediction by sis-
ter Elsie Kerr.
—Eliza A. Hawkins, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	In Brussels and Russia retreats in the na-
ture of maternity hospitals are provided at
public expense, to which any expectant
mother may repair to be cared for until she
is physically able to resume her work. No
charge is made, and the right to take ad-
vantage of the opportunity afforded belongs
to her in virtue of her motherhood alone.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S
SCHOOL of NURSING
and
OBSTETRICS.

	The session of 1911-12 will begin on Mon-
day, October 9, 1911, with improved facil-
ties, and a wide range of opportnities for
gaining a thorough knowledge of this the
most important branch of a woman’s edu-
cation.
	The full course of study, together with
many practical advantages, will be given for
$50.00.
	Books from $8.00 to $10.00, according to
grade and binding.
	For full particulars call, phone, or write
to Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 713 Second Ave., Salt
Lake City. ’Phone, 25323.

[Column 2]
SCHOOL OF NURSING
and
OBSTETRICS

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts

	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence her
school in nursing, Monday, September 25, 1911.
Course continues eight months. Class in Ob-
stetrics will start October 9, 1911. (Those
who study Obstetrics are required to attend
the Nurse Class. No extra charge.)
	Though every young woman may not wish
to be a nurse, yet to know herself is an im-
portant matter to every woman.
Terms for Nursing.................$25.00
Terms for Obstetrics...............50.00
	Approximate cost of text books from $5.00
to $8.00.
	PLEASE GIVE AS WIDE CIRCULATION
AS POSSIBLE FOR THESE OPPORTUNI-
TIES FOR WOMEN.
	Write to Dr. M. C. Roberts for further in-
formation.
79 C. St., Salt Lake City.
Bell Phone 2002.


WOMEN IN THE CHURCHES.
Editor Woman’s Journal:—
	In your paper of Aug. 19 I find a short
notice of the admission of fifteen women
to the Wesleyan Methodist Conference at
Cardiff, Wales.
	This is no doubt the first time they have
been admitted to the Methodist Conference.
But in the Welsh Church of centuries ago
women had the same rights that men had.
	At the age of twenty, both men and
women voted in the churches, congrega-
tional government. At this time all officers
but the King were elected by the people,
men and women voting at the age of twenty.
To say Welshman meant Welshwoman as
well no difference and this continued for
centuries, until the English denied them
their rights.


Our American ideas about independence
came from the Welsh people.—Mary H. 
Winchell Barker, Detroit, Mich.


EXTRACTS.
	Baroness Aletta Korf, an American girl
and a Bryn Mawr graduate, who is the
wife of an official in Finland, is reported as
saying that one of the first things the wom-
en of Norway did with their ballots was to
get the Government to start schools of do-
mestic training for girls.
	The Premier of New South Wales, when
in New York a few days ago, declared that
equal suffrage in his State has operated
most satisfactorily during the ten years it
has been effective. “A higher morality has
resulted,” he said, “and the home life, on
which any nation depends, has been 
strengthened. More women vote than do
men, and, contrary to much argument, the
franchise does not unsex them. It makes
our women more womanly, and the result
has been that there is a great decline in
the infraction of laws, although the popula-
tion has wonderfully increased.”


ODDS AND ENDS.
	Bertis and Alice were sitting alone to-
gether in the moonlight, uttering tender 
nonsense.
	“And,” said the girl, bravely, “if poverty
comes, we will face it together.” 
“Ah, dearest,” he replied, “the mere sight
of your face would scare the wolf away!”
	And ever since he has been wondering
why she returned his ring
	Adam sat down. “I am the greatest 
man in the world,” he said to himself, “the
wisest sage, the biggest financier and cap-
tain of industry I hold all the records for
the 100-yard dash to the Marathon; my
wife is the best-dressed woman in the
world I am the best-dressed man. Gad-
zooks, I am too good to be true; I will
eat of the fruit of the tree of evil.”—Life.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 40.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1911						No. 3.


CONTENTS.
Stratford-on-Avon in Festive Garb........
	...................Alice Louise Reynolds	17
A Talk on Children.........Tillie B. Green	18
A Loving Tribute....................................	19
In Memroy of Aunt May........................
	....................Julia P. M. Farnsworth	21
Life Sketch of Mary Magdalene Swindle
	............................Mary E. Magleby	21
Tribute and Resolutions of Respect........
	.............................Mamie Simmons	21
General Relief Society Conference........	23
Odds and Ends........................................	23
Notes and News.................................19,	21
R. S. Reports—Bear River Stake...........	21
	Bannock Stake, North Sanpete Stake,
		Emery Stake ..........................	22
	Alpine Stake...................................	24
Editorial: Resolutions of Respect...........	20
	Possibilities of the Age...................	20
Editorial Notes........................................	20
Poetry: Fatherhood.Edwin Carlisle Listey	17


FATHERHOOD.
I could not tread the path you went last night
	O my beloved, with your eyes of awe
It was a time when my protecting might
	Could bring no shield between you and Life’s
		law!

I could not even guard you on your way,
	Nor share one little mite of all your pain
I could but feel—and hope—and dumbly pray
	That you would safely come to me again.

And you have come * * I do not seem to know
	I am a father * * All my thoughts outpour
To you, who last night felt the undertow—
	Safe in the haven of my heart once more!
—Edwin Carlile Listey—Metropolitan Magazine.


[Column 1]
	STRATFORD-ON-AVON IN FESTIVE
				GARB.
	England, always beautiful in her country
districts, is surpassingly lovely in the
months of April and May. Warwickshire
is known far and near for its beauty. The
story is told that twelve Englishmen were
once asked to name the prettiest drive in
all England, and that six wrote from War-
wick to Coventry, and the other six from
Coventry to Warwick.
	And now I am going to ask you to ac-
company me in imagination from Leaming-
ton to Stratford, in the month of April, for
I want you to attend the Shakespeare fes-
tival held on the anniversary of the poet’s
birth. The black thorn is still in bloom, and
in a few weeks the country will be a mass
of pink and white blossoms, for May will be
here, and all the hedgerows of hawthorne
will be in their most attractive garb. Nev-
ertheless, the beech and elm and broad-
leaved sycamore trees are now in full leaf,
and on each side as we ride along the green
stretches of country are pied with daisies
and buttercups, while here and there the
primrose is in bloom.
	Reaching Stratford, by rail, we shall dis-
cover that it is in gala dress. But these dec-
orations are no mere matter of color, they

[Column 2]
are significant and appropriate in the high-
est degree. These shields that you see in
midair, they are the coat of arms of many
of the characters mentioned in Shake-
speare’s plays, or perhaps they are the arms
of the old guild crafts of the borough. This
row of windows that proves attractive has
within it many of the flowers mentioned in
Shakespeare’s plays, and that flagpole in the
distance, so heavily laden, bears flags sent
from a dozen different nations to symbolize
the homage that the world pays to the great
writer of English drama.
	As we walk along our attention will be
drawn to a pyramid-shaped fountain with
little Gothic spires—it is the munificent gift
of Mr. Childs of Philadelphia, placed there
during the year of the Queen’s jubilee. On

[picture of Alice Louise Reynolds]

	MISS ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.
its sides are quotations from Shakespeare.
There is one exception to this statement, for
on one side we read the words of Washing-
ton Irving—the American. We give quo-
tations from two sides. The first from Hen-
ry Eighth, act five, scene four:
	“In her days every man shall eat in safety
under his own vine what he plants, and sing
the merry songs of peace to all his neigh-
bors: God shall be truly known; and
those about her. From her shall read the
perfect ways of honor, and by these claim
their greatness not by blood.”
	The second quotation is from Tymon of 
Athens, act one, scene two:
	“Honest water that never left man in the
mire.”
	From here we shall make our way to the

[Column 3]
birthplace of Shakespeare, an old house
with gabled roof and low-ceilinged rooms,
of Tudor architecture. This house fronts
the street, but in the rear the grounds are
lovely. There an attempt is made to grow
every flower and shrub mentioned in Shake-
speare’s plays. The grammar school that
the poet attended, and Anne Hathaway’s
cottage, at Shottery, where Shakespeare
wooed and won his bride will come in for
a share of attention.
	But let us suppose that it is the twenty-
third of April, the day of the poet’s birth.
It happens in the year 1911 to fall on Sun-
day, and so we shall meet at Trinity Church,
where the poet lies buried, and there listen
to a sermon by Canon Beeching, of West-
minster Abbey. The next day we shall
meet at the birthplace, and from there we
may march with boquet in hand to the
Church. The bells of the parish church are
chiming, as we make our way down the
chancel, where the clergy at the altar rail
will take our floral offering and place it on
the grave. As we chance to be casual visit-
ors we shall not likely be in the lead of the
procession, consequently, we shall find by
the time that we approach the grave, that
it is entirely covered with flowers that form
a great white mound over and about the slab
that marks the poet’s resting place.
	Leaving the Church we shall make our
way to the memorial theatre, a building that
combines in one, library, playhouse, and mu-
seum. Perhaps Ellen Terry is there giving
a lecture on Shakespeare’s heroines, or per-
haps other London celebrities are presenting
Hamlet or Othello. Perchance, in the open
air, one may witness the May revels, or
Morris dances now being revived all over
England. There is still another chance that
“As You Like It,” or some others of Shake-
speare’s plays are being given in the open
	Evening is approaching now, and perhaps
we shall fancy a ride on the slow-flowing
Avon, and so we hire a boat. It may be
called Rosalind, Juliette, or Portia, what
matter so that we are in the company of one
of Shakespeare’s masterly creations. We
shall make our way by water towards the
church, now bathed in the glorious light of
an English sunset, and at such a fortunate
time, view both church and churchyard.
Soon the streaks of crimson and purple will
grow dim, and with them the church spires
and the lovely churchyard will fade from
our sight. Slowly we drop down the river,
past the Shakespeare monument, with the
statue of Hamlet fronting the river, under
which we may read, as we pass, Horatio’s
last words to the unfortunate prince, “Good
night, sweet prince, and flights of angels
sing thee to thy rest.’ And so with the
shades of night falling fast about, we part
from thee, dear Stratford, with all thy
beauty, and with all they marvelous asso-
ciations, with the words of thy immortal
bard upon our lips:
	“Thou art so lovely, fair, and smallest so
sweet that the senses ache at thee.” 
		ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A TALK ON CHILDREN. 
Paper read in Pioneer Stake Relief Society. 
	So much can be said about the rearing
of children that one hardly knows where
to begin. Every mother may have dif-
ferent ideas, different experiences as the
result of dealing with childrn of varied
dispositions, for we will find in any fam-
ily that there are rarely if ever two chil-
dren of the same temperament—two that
can be governed alike. What will per-
haps appeal to and govern one child will
have no effect upon another, while some
children are of such a sensitive nature
that the least word of reproof will cause 
them to shrink as it were into themselves. 
	That the back is fitted for the burden
is truly verified when mothers with a
great deal of wisdom and patience are en-
abled to rightly and justly cope with all
these conditions and to successfully un-
derstand their children. It is indeed sad
when children are misunderstood. A 
young man said to me a short time ago
that all his life he had been misunder-
stood. He told me of how especially as
a child his ideas and motives were mis-
construed, and he felt that if he had been
more thoroughly understood his youthful
days would have been much happier. I 
thought that it was indeed deplorable, 
for I knew he had as good a mother as 
ever lived—one who did everything a
mother could do for a child, and I believe
she came nearer sympathizing and under-
standing him than any one else, yet she
has often said that it had taken more tact
and patience to raise this child than all
the rest of her children together. 
	When children begin to form friend-
ships with other boys and girls, when
they are not content to remain at home
for all their pleasure, it is then that the
parents of these children should bestir
themselves if never before, and try to
make their home life so pleasant, so agre-
able, that no outside influence can tear
them away. We should not think more
of our homes than our children; there
should not be a corner too good for them. 
Let them see the inside of your parlors
occasionally, let them feel at liberty to in-
vite their friends in, have them spend the
evening around your fireside and do not
so far outlive your youth that you can join
in their games and be one with them if the
occasion presents itself. Most homes are
far too serious. There are some homes
which upon entering you can feel in the
very atmosphere that there is no joking
permitted, no laughter allowed, and if a
child makes the least move it is immedi-
ately told to hush up and keep quiet. Chil-
dren should be allowed to play and dance
to their hearts content, for they will get
rubs enough, knocks enough and a great
deal of the hard side of life later on, and
parents should resolve to make their child-
hood days so happy and joyous that when
they get out and have to meet the cold
world, combat with unpleasant conditions,
they can look back upon their home as the
one pleasant spot on earth, the sacred mem-
ory of which has saved many a person from
losing their self-respect. When children
are allowed to give vent to all that is
joyous and happy in their natures, they will
develop into happy and useful men and

[Column 2]
women instead of sad, suppressed, melan-
choly creatures. A writer said, “Mirth is
God’s medicine,” and we should all take of it
in abundance. Play to a child is what sun-
shine is to a plant. You cannot give them
too much sunshine, too much love. They
thrive upon pleasure and the home is the
place above all others where they should get
plenty of it. Some one has said, “If you
want to spoil your children, let them feel
that all their pleasure and mirth must be left
at the door on entering their home at night.”
And when our homes become regarded as
a place simply to eat, drink and sleep, a
work is started that cannot help but end un-
happily. Children should be taught to get
pleasure out of the common things of life. 
This will often prevent the restless tenden-
cies we sometimes find in children to believe
they would be happier somewhere else or
under other conditions. Teach children to
laugh at their misfortunes and to see the
bright side of unpleasant things which we
cannot always control. 
	A great misfortune to befall a growing
child is to have a mother who is always
tormented with nervous fears and when a
mother continually gives way to these fears
whether minute or morbid, she will in time
make the movements of her children one of
fear and timidity. A mother who never
makes a move or allows her children to
move without conjuring up a myriad of pos-
sibilities embitters their life with a slow-eat-
ing poison. Yet from our earliest existence
we have to a certain extent been under this
ban of fear. A child is cautioned perhaps a
thousand times a year to look out for this
or that. It might get hurt, it might get run
over, something terrible might happen to
it if it does so and so, and it is a most cruel
thing to impress on a child’s mind this in-
nate fear for it is like a letter cut upon a
sapling—it grows wider and deeper with
age. Do not fail to teach a child fearless-
ness, for it is a cruel thing to see a child in
constant terror of the dark or haunted with
fear of the unknown. Children should not
be frightened into obedience by being told
if they don’t go to sleep the boogie man will
get them or a big bear will eat them up. 
It is to be wondered how much sleep a
grown person would get in a position where
this might be possible. 
	Mothers waste a great deal of energy in
worrying about their children. How many
times in imagination have we seen our chil-
dren fall out of trees, off of sheds, have
seen our boys brought home drowned when
they have gone fishing or swimming, have
in imagination seen all kinds of horrible
things befall each one of the family, and
when none of these things really happen,
what have we to compensate for the hours
of mental anguish and the subsequent low-
ering of vitality and physical tone, for not
one wrinkle in a thousand or one gray hair
in a million have been caused by actual ills
and troubles. The things which make us
grow old, which takes the light from the eye
and the elasticity from the step are bridges
we have never crossed, troubles which have
never come. The trials and troubles which
are actually ours to bear are with rare ex-
ception trifling in comparison with the
things over which we worry but which never
have happened and a mother assumes great
responsibility when with some silly fear of
injury she forbids her children such physical 

[Column 3]
development as will promote courage, en-
durance, self-reliance and self-control. 
	Parents who are always harping on the
shortcomings of their children, scolding and
nagging at them will be sure to bring out
the worst that is in them. They can bring
out whatever quality they appeal to and
whatever thoughts radiate their own minds. 
If children do not confide in their mothers,
it is not always the chilnren’s fault, for
there are some mothers who are so crusted,
so unapproachable that their children really
dare not open up their hearts to them. Par-
ents and children should live in such confi-
dence, that when the children begin to out-
grow the stories told them of the stork’s
visit to their homes occasionally that mother
can then take their children, and in a sim-
ple, delicate and truthful manner explain
some of these things which are beginning to
trouble their little minds, for if a mother
neglects these things the children will get
their information elsewhere, perhaps from
an older playmate and in this manner chil-
dren quite often get these ideas so miscon-
strued that it has a demoralizing effect in
their young minds. 
	Parents should use their best judgment
in the punishment of their children. I be-
lieve there have been as many children
spoiled from an over dose of the rod as from
the sparing of the rod, for the fear of pun-
ishment has caused many a child to add de-
ceit and falsehood to whatever else they
may have done and some time the children
are severely whipped not so much for the
offense committed as a means for angry
parents giving vent to their feelings.
	I have heard young mothers express
themselves as dreading to see their children
start to school; they felt as though their
children would be growing away from them,
they wondered how they would be able to
get along. We cannot keep our children
“tied to our apron strings”—we cannot go
with them everywhere they go, watch every
word they utter or every act they do. We
have simply got to trust them, for sooner
or later they will have to meet the world—
will have to stand upon their own feet, be
able to choose between right and wrong,
and the sooner this is accomplished the
sooner your child will be able to take his
place in line in this great battle of life. 
	We are living in such a busy world that
I am sorry to say many little children would
have very little attention paid to their moral
training if it were not for the teaching
received in all Church organizations. Some
mothers seem to feel they have done their
duty by their children in seeing that they
are properly clothed and fed. We should
try to live near to our children, have heart
to heart talks with them on evenings when
their play and work is over, try to get them
round us, find out if we can what they have
been doing during the day—who they have
been playing with and what their play has
been, and in this manner we can get into
their confidence and things may come up
whereby we can impress upon them a last-
ing lesson in kindness, honesty, truthfulness,
etc. Orison Swett Marden, in one of his
wrintings, said “The best legacy a man can
leave his family is the memory of a clean
record and a life well spent.’ When I read
this it reminded me of what my father used
to say. It was that while he lived he would
gladly spend what he could accumulate for
the raising and advancement of his family,


but when he died, although perhaps he
would not be able to leave his children much
else, he hoped to leave them a memory of
a life of honesty and integrity that they
should always be proud of.” To bring your
children up to respect themselves, to love the
right and to hate the wrong, to be strong,
vigorous, self-reliant and independent, to do
their own thinking so that they might be-
come leaders instead of trailers, to trust in
God and love all mankind, this is to leave
your children something. 
				TILLIE B. GREEN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A LOVING TRIBUTE.
	In writing of the late Mother in Israel
whose life and labors are but briefly told in
the sketch we publish below, one feels how
heroically noble were the women of the
earlier days in this Church, and how patient-
ly they bore trials almost beyond human en-
durance. Experiences, some of them too
terrible to be told, and yet it is well for the
younger generation of the present time to
know something of the struggles and hard-
ships some of the early settlers of these now
beautiful mountain vales endured to make
the waste places pleasant and desirable.
	Words are inadequate to express the
strength of character displayed on occasions
that required the magnamity and supreme
courage of one whose whole heart and soul
were wise—yes, must have been filled with
divine fire to pass unscathed through the
perils that beset the way of the Latter-day
Saints in the early history—women, too,
with little children clinging to them, fleeing
from their homes and enduring perils by the
way.
	Too much reverence cannot be given to
those who bore the heat and burden of the
day and kept the faith, and they must have
had an inner, eternal, abiding faith, not sim-
ply belief, but a fountain of living faith; that
gave them something more than human en-
durance.
	Such indeed was the faith of this good,
great and grand woman whose life was
spent in loving service, among the exiled
Saints and it would be well for the young
women of today to make themselves fa-
miliar with the experiences and character-
istics of the heroines of Mormondom.—
Editor.

			LIFE SKETCH.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Richardson Huffaker was
born in New Hampshire, May 28, 1829, of
sturdy agricultural parentage, being the
daughter of Stephen Richardson and Erepta
Wilder.
	When she was about three years of age
her parents joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Some “Mormons” were holding a meeting
at the home of a neighbor, Lorin Farr, and
they were persuaded to go. Mrs. Richard-
son inclined to believe in signs, remarked, as
she put the baby to sleep preparatory to
going, “If Sallie stays asleep until I return,
I shall be inclined to half believe what those
people say.”
	They went to the meeting, listened and
believed. They, with most of the people of
their neighborhood joined the Church.
	Sister Huffaker, when old enough, was
baptized and as she came up out of the wa-
ter it was, as she expressed it, “as if the
heavens opened and she was as light and

[Column 2]
joyous as if she had gained all things.” She
never from that moment wavered though
she went through all the trials incident to
the early history of the Church.
	In 1838 the Richardson family moved
to Kirtland, Ohio, and thence to Illinois,
the family settling on a farm about a day
and a half’s journey from Nauvoo. Here
Elizabeth grew to womanhood.
	Sister Huffaker remembered having
heard the Prophet Joseph speak once when
he was interrupted in his sermon by one
of his enemies until the latter was forcibly
ejected from the meeting.
	At the age of sixteen she married Simp-
son David Huffaker, a widower with six
children. This was in January, 1846.
	She had not thought of marriage and at
first her impulse was to say ,,No.” She was
such a girl, but something whispered again
and again, “You had better say yes and go
to Nauvoo with him.” Therefore she con-
sented. Her parents at that time expected
to go to Nauvoo and never thought of
leaving the Church, which all did later when
the question of polygamy was agitated.
Hence Sister Huffaker always felt that had
she not gone then with Brother Huffaker
she would never have come west with the
Church.
	They were in Nauvoo at the time of the
exodus, Brother Huffaker being a member
of “The Spartan Band” of guards. During 
the attack a cannon ball struck the chimney
of their house and she gathered the fam-
ily together to flee. On the way her hus-
band met her and told her of the twenty-
four hour truce.
	Before leaving the house she had put a
large sum of money, the price of their 
farm, in an old stocking, and hung it down
the well. During the truce they returned
and putting the sum in an old bucket they
covered it with nails and placed the bucket
in full view on the wagon. As they were
searched going out many a mobocrat sat
down on this old bucket while the wagon
was overhauled. Brother Huffaker had
taken their gun to pieces and hidden part
of it in the wagon while Mrs. Huffaker had
fastened a pair of colts around her waist un-
der her dress. One part of the gun was
found by a searcher. With an oath he de-
dared “the d— Mormon had hidden the
rest somewhere, and everything in the
wagon was thrown out in the search, their
corn sacks being cut open and the contents
scattered on the ground. Mr. Huffaker, 
during part of the troublous time, was in
hiding for the mobocrats were “baptizing”
all Mormons by repeated duckings and as
he could not swim he knew his life would
be in danger were he caught.
	With the rest of the refugees the family
crossed the river and traveled with the 
Saints as far as the Des Moines River. As
he was taken ill of chills and fever the fam-
ily remained there that winter, going on to
Winter Quarters in the spring of 1847.
Here they began their journey to Zion in
the company of Jedediah M. Grant, Brother
Huffaker being a leader of ten. They ar-
rived in Utah in October, 1847. Sister
Huffaker traveling in a light buggy often
rode ahead and at one time when some dis-
tance in advance she found herself encir-
cled by a band of Indians. Whirling her
horses she started on a run towards camp,
still surrounded by warriors who, however,
did not offer to molest her. She, however,
never ventured in advance again.

[Column 3]
	One sad event rendered part of the jour-
ney gloomy. Sister Huffaker’s sister-in-
law gave birth to twins while on the jour-
ney and when they were but a few days old
her child next older was crushed to death
under the wheels of her wagon.
	After arriving in Utah they settled final-
ly in Cottonwood.
	Sister Huffaker and her husband re-
turned to the East on a visit in the fall of
1856, in the company of Brother Parley P.
Pratt. Her family, except her babe, was
left in charge of her oldest stepdaughter.
On their return, in the spring, they found
the dread scourge smallpox had taken this
daughter, one of Sister Huffaker’s children
and a child of Brother Huffaker’s plural
wife.
	Sister Huffaker later made two other
visits East.
	The later years of Sister Huffaker’s life,
after the death of her husband, were spent
at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Wm.
Perry, at whose home she died, April, 1911.


TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	A tribute to the memory of our beloved sis-
ter and teacher, Laura Petrae Hansen, who
departed this life July 29th, 1911. She was
born at Tidsvilde, Sjelland, Denmark, on July
30th, 1861. She in connection with her parents
joined the Mormon Church July 5th, 1878; em-
grated to Utah in 1880 and with her parents
located in Logan, where she was married to
James F. Hansen on January 20th, 1881. They
shortly afterwards moved to Richmond, and
in the fall of 1884 to Newton, which has since
been their home. Sister Hansen was the moth-
er of ten children, two of whom have preceded
her to the other side and is survived by her
husband and eight children.

			Resolutions.
	Whereas, our highly esteemed sister, at the
close of a beautiful life, has been called to her
heavenly home, we her sisters who know of
her loving deeds, and appreciate her many no-
ble qualities, desire to express our sympathy
for her sorrowing husband and children and to
acknowledge her labors and ministrations of
kindness as a member and teacher of the Relief
Society in the Newton Ward, also as a friend
and neighbor in the best sense of the term.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That we emulate
her noble character, her liberality as a donor
for charitable purposes, that we do humbly
testify that faith, charity, and humility were
leading traits of her character, and that her
steadfast devotion to the work of God is an
example which we should all strive to emulate.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family and bid them
look up and trust in God.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded
in the records of the Newton Relief Society,
one presented to the family and also published
in The Woman’s Exponent.

	“She’s gone, but to a rest so sweet
		To all the faithful given.
	Oh, may we earn through earthly life, 
		The same sweet bliss in heaven. 

	May her devout life on earth
		Of patience, hope and love
	Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
		From him who rules above.”


Mrs. William Keith of Berkeley, Cal.,
who has given $3,000 to the present suf—
frage campaign, had devoted, about $1,000 a
year to the cause for the last ten years.
She puts in not only money, but a great
amount of personal labor, lending a hand in
almost every line of work, including the
house-to-house canvassing.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	OCTOBER, 1911


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
To the Memory of the Late President
	Lillian M. Hollister, of the National
	Council of Women, by the National
	Relief Society and Young Ladies’ Mu-
	tual Improvement Associations.

	When in the course of human experi-
ence, the silver cord of a life—full, useful,
and complete, is suddenly loosed, and the
golden bowl is unexpectedly broken, all
associated lives quiver in the shock of
that loss and stand confused and helpless
before the Divine fiat.
	Therefore—Knowing the great service
rendered by Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister to
the cause of human advancement as crys-
tallized in her position as President of the
National Council of Women of the United
States, as Supreme Commander of the
Ladies of the Maccabees of the World,
and as officer and worker in the W. C. T.
U., in the Woman’s International and
Michigan State Press Associations, in the
Federation of Women’s Clubs, in the
Woman’s Relief Corps, in the Order of
the Eastern Star and the Degree of
Honor—
	Knowing also her uncounted services
in the financial emancipation of woman-
hood, hitherto hampered by sex condi-
tions and traditions—
	Knowing as well the loss sustained by
the wide circles which have been reached
through her writings and lectures, her
personal ministrations and magnetic lead-
ership—
	Therefore—We, the officers and mem-
bers of the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety and Young Ladies’ Mutual Im-
provement Associations do unite in this
public expression of our own loss in the
sudden death of Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister,
President of the National Council of
Women.
	We further desire to convey to her in-
timate associates, her family, to our own
members and to the womanhood of this
country, and of the civilized world our
deep conviction that such a life, and such
labors are in themselves a priceless her-
itage which are at once ideal, and a chal-
lenge to all of her sex to like aims, to
similar achievements.
	May the wise Father administer com-
fort to the bereaved husband and associ-
ates, and preserve fruitful remembrances


to all who knew and loved Mrs. Lillian
M. Hollister.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Pres. Nat’l. Woman’s Relief Society.
	SUSA YOUNG GATES,
	CARRIE S. THOMAS,
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE,
		Com. N. W. Relief Society.
	MARTHA H. TINGEY
		Pres. Y. L. N. M. I. A.
	RUTH M. FOX, MAE T. NYSTROM,
	ANN M. CANNON,
		Y. L. N. M. I. A. Com.


POSSIBILITIES OF THE AGE.
	It is quite impossible to tell in one or two
or even many pages of books or magazines
the innumerable advantages and rapid for-
ward studies of those who are undertaking
the great work of the age in its upward
and onward growth towards higher and
greater things.
	This is the day of rapidity in all move-
ments and attainments, and one wonders
and scarcely dares conjecture what will be
undertaken and purchance achieved by those
who are pushing on in the scale of progress
in the world’s work of the age in which we
of the present generation are living and try-
ing to fill some small niche, in this vast pano-
rama of the world’s great pageantry.
	To enumerate the discoveries and the
progressive advancement in only a few
things would be a gigantic undertaking even
on paper—but suffice it to say—this is the
age of wonders, and the prophecies of the
ancients in the Scriptures old and more mod-
ern are coming to pass before our very eyes,
and the people are witnesses of the fulfill-
ment, and they know it not or will not ac-
knowledge it, or are so blinded by the daz-
zling array of wondrous miracles as it were
that they cannot quite grasp the potency
and intrinsic value of the advantages to be
gained by the appliances now brought into
use and saving manual labor of men and
women—thus giving time to devote to the
higher channels of human wisdom and intel-
ligence.
	In the meantime are the people doing and
accomplishing the actual work that will
entitle them to stand on a higher plane intel-
lectually, educationally, and in managing the
arts and sciences so as to give a tone of ex-
cellence in design of architecture and beauty
in homes and grounds, in forest, fields and
gardens never before reached by the peo-
ple who own and inhabit this land of Amer-
ca, which is yet to be the dwelling-place of
those who can attain to the best in the up-
lifting of the human race.
	If the chosen people who came into this
wilderness and endured the hardships and
privations incident to such an exodus, are to
establish Zion in her beauty and glory in the
tops of the mountains that all nations may
flow unto it and they really have made a
good beginning—then the people should go
on adding the superior graces that beautify
and adorn the lives and characters of those
who represent the Church of latter-days.
	Many women as well as men in the past
have attained to great excellence in the vir-
tues that adorn the lives of Saints, we who
live today have their example—yet they had
greater difficulties to encounter than we of
the present—are we reaching as high a stan-
dard of excellence as they attained?

[Column 2]
	This generation have all the opportuni-
ities to develop and obtain the spiritual en-
dowments that excell all else, we have Tem-
ples wherein we can go and accomplish the
greater work of redemption of our kindred
that they may stand with the redeemed upon
mount Zion—is there anything in this fair
world of ours to be compared with this
higher life that is within the reach of many
that are now in the pursuit of frivolity and
fashion, and things of lesser value, that can
only bring remorse and regret, and cannot
be compared with that which leads to purity
and genuine attributes of heart and soul
that will fit and purpose one to be compan-
ons for angels to minister in holy places,
and to behold the glory and share in the
wondrous transformations that are to come
about in the future unfolding of the great
plan of salvation and exaltation—that will
be revealed to those who are worthy to par-
ticipate in the scenes that must transpire be-
fore the ushering in of the great Millennial
morn.
	Upon the youth of today depends, not
only the greatness of the near future of the
affairs of the business world, but the enter-
prise and growth of the educational advan-
tages as also the moral and spiritual forces
that move the world of mankind towards
higher and better things than any of the
benefits that can be bought with a price.
	Faith above all else is necessary to instil
into the minds and hearts of the young and
tender human plants, while in their baby-
hood—and even before there can be such
thoughts and desires and the condition of
mind and heart that will culminate in an in-
telligence that will become an inheritance
that will never die out. Prenatal influ-
ences are strong and lasting and the moth-
er who seeks for this gift and grace from
the Lord for her unborn child will have
her reward in due time if her faith fails not.
	Children born in the eternal marriage
covenant and trained by wise mothers and
faithful fathers, what may not be expected
of them?

		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The glorious victory won by the women
of the great State of California is not only
a decided triumph of the cause, but proves
the strength of the sentiment of equal suf-
frage more decidedly than any other move-
ment that has culminated so auspiciously
that it is likely to extend its influence abroad
and permeate many localities, or at any ex-
tent other states in the Union. Great things
may be expected to transpire very shortly.
The National Council of Women of the
United States, with which the Relief Society
and the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association are affiliated, will hold its Exec-
utive Session in Chicago, at the Auditorium
Hotel, the 13th and 14th of November. It
will be an important session as it will be
necessary to fill the vacancy caused by the
demise of Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister.
	The condition of matters in our City de-
mands from every good citizen at the pres-
ent time, the best efforts that can be made
for such measures to be brought about as will
introduce a new order of things, and do
away entirely and forever it is to be hoped
with evil and corruption, and introduce such
an order of good city government as shall, ut-
terly prevent the reign of vice and iniquity
that has been so disastrous to the peace and
harmony of this fair city.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORY OF DEAR AUNT MAY.
	Died: On Tuesday, October 3rd, 1911, Mrs.
May Bain Murdock, born October 25th, 1833,
in far off Dundee, Scotland. She became a 
member of the L. D. S. Church in 1849, and
in 1856, with her widowed mother, three sis-
ters, and a brother of six years, crossed the
plains in J. G. Willey’s handcart company,
Aunt May pushing a handcart all the way.
Her eldest brother, who had preceded the fam-
ily to Utah, by name Robert A. Bain, met them
at Green River and brought them on to Lehi,
their first home in the valleys.
	Dear Aunt May married my father, Hon.
John R. Murdock, a year later, and she had
one little son, who died at its birth, soon after
our family moved to Beaver, whither my father
was called to preside by President Young, in
the year 1864. Father, my mother, Aunt May
and we four oldest children left our home of 
comfort and our kindred, with heavy hearts.
	My mother and Aunt May lived in the same
home for twenty-one years, mother being an
invalid all this time. I have read of friend-
ship among men and women, have seen fam-
ilies love and respect each other, but I can
truly say I never knew such perfect trust, such
genuine regard and unselfish devotion between
two women, as was that exemplified and lived
in my father’s home.
	Aunt May has been our only mother for
thirty-three years, my own dear mother hav-
ing died in 1877. Aunt May was not only a 
benefactor to our immediate family circle, but 
to all the other branches and homes, to the
young men and women of the neighborhood, 
and the “strangers within the gates.’ All who
met or came under her influence, felt her mag-
netism, her largeness of heart. Many eminent
and distinguished guests have stayed at my
father’s home, in the early days of our Ter-
ritory, and Aunt May was largely the dispenser
of its hospitality and comfort. Colonel Thomas
L. Caine, the governors, judges, military offi-
cers of Utah, also the Presidents and Apostles 
of our Church and their families have often
partaken of her kindly service.
	Aunt May was a woman of strong traits of
character, broad mind, and well informed—
being a keen observer and a great reader, all
her life. She was the confidant, counselor and
nurse, the true and faithful friend of our whole
family, children and grandchildren. My
Grandfather Murdock, my mother, Aunt
May’s own mother, and her youngest brother
were all nursed, and taken care of by her un-
til they went to their long home, also, every
child of the family who preceded her.
	Until two years ago she resided in the old
family home at Beaver, with my youngest 
brother, except several times, when she went
to the Manti and Logan Temples to do work
for the dead. Two years last September she
moved to her youngest sister’s home, she be-
ing a widow and desiring to have her near. She
was tenderly cared for by her until her demise
as before stated. Aunt May left two sisters,
Mrs. Jane S. Coleman of Manti, Sanpete Coun-
ty, Mrs. Betsy S. Goodwin of Beaver City,
many nephews and nieces, besides my father
and his whole family, and many friends over
this and adjacent states, who will love and
revere her memory.
	Dear Aunt May’s funeral was held in the
Beaver Tabernacle, on the 6th of October.
The speakers were old tried friends. Her
Bishop and teachers both testified of her integ-
rity and faith in the Gospel. The flowers were
beautiful and abundant, the singing eloquent
and comforting, the prayers hopeful and in-
spiring. The pall-bearers were two of my
brothers, and their sons, two of my sister’s
sons and two of her nephews. My eldest
brother driving the hearse. We all know that
one of God’s noblest daughters has been called
home and our second mother. Heaven grant
we may live worthy to meet on that other beau-
tiful shore.
			JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH,
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 18, 1911.


A celebration of the victory will be held
at Faneuil Hall in Boston, Monday evening.
California songs will be sung and suffrage
pictures shown. Prominent local officials
will deliver addresses.


[Column 1]
LIFE SKETCH OF MARY MAGDALENE
			SWINDLE.
	Mary Magdalene Swindle, daughter of John
Witzig and Dorotha Gossoure, and the eldest
of four children, born May 29, 1843, in the
little town of Horgen, Switzerland, in hum-
ble circumstances, being brought up to the
hardships incidental to plain country life. As
the soul grows stronger through hardships
and truth conquors by opposition, this envir-
onment developed for her a strong character
and laid a foundation through the guidance of
providence for the great mission that was
dawning upon her.
	Her course in life was not the flowery path
made easy by protecting hands, but rather in-
spired to read in the things of God the word
“action,” for such were we created and it is
only when we live in accordance with that
great law of our being that we attain our
greatest aim, and truest happiness. Under the
tutoring of her dear mother and the Mormon
Elders, she became a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and was
one of those who through conviction had the
courage to be baptized when the ice was upon
the lake and had to be cleared away for that
purpose.
	At the age of 21 years she became the wife
of John Diggleman, three children came to
them through this marriage, Mary M., Lydia,
and John Herman, later a separation came and
she was thrown upon her own resources with
the children, and under extreme difficulty sent
her two youngest children, Lydia, of five years,
and John Herman, of four, in advance to
America with Mormon Elders, and in 1871 she,
with her eldest child, came to America and
joined once again her beloved children. Only
those who have gone through this experience
can appreciate these trying circumstances.
	On March 4, 1872, she became the plural
wife of George Swindle. There were born unto
them from this marriage four children, Annie,
Heber, Joseph and Ellen. After twelve years
of married life, George Swindle died, and she
was left again a widow to rely upon her own
resources.
	In 1884 she was called upon again to leave
her children and go to Salt Lake and take a
course in obstetrics. She completed this
course and was recommended by her instruc-
tors competent to take up that line of work.
	The balance of her life, until worn out by ex-
posure and over-exertion, was spent in assist-
ing humanity and relieving them of pain.
Her labors were mostly in the southern part
of Sevier County. Sister Swindle being very
particular to keep a record of the children
brought through her assistance, which shows
the splendid number of 800 children.
	Sister Swindle was throughout her life a very
zealous worker in her religion and especially
in the Relief Society work.
	She died May 27, 1911. Funeral services were
conducted May 29, 1911, when a vast audience
came to pay their last respects and followed
her remains to their last resting place.
	Sister Swindle was a very able secretary in
the Monroe Ward Relief Society twenty-four
years. The minute books are creditable com-
pliments of her faithful works.
	She was called and set apart to the secretary-
ship in the Sevier Stake Relief Society Board
twelve years ago, which office she filled up to
the time of her demise with great accuracy
and skill.
	Throughout all these years of Stake Labor
each Society has been visited once a year
(twenty societies in all), although many times
through storms on bad roads and inconveni-
ences of travel and in poor health. But
through fortitude and great determination
these duties have been accomplished and great
blessings realized.
	The sisters of the board who have been as-
sociated with her for so many years in love
and unity know her loyal friendship and ster-
ling worth.
	We shall miss her wise counsel and the in-
fluence of her humble, sweet yet forceful life.
Her going leaves a vacancy in our hearts that
will not be filled until we clasp her hand in
the home on high.
	We pause to say that the virtues so com-
mendable in our dear sister should be the dis-
tinguishing characteristics of every true mem-
ber of our society.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That while we, the
members of Sevier Stake Relief Society Board

[Column 2]
bow to the decree of our heavenly Father, may
He teach us from our hearts to say, “Thy will
be done.”
	And while we deplore the removal of our sis-
ter from among us, we cherish her memory
and worthy example and extend to her be-
reaved family our deepest sympathy and exhort
them to emulate her worthy life.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be given the family of the deceased as a token
of respect and a copy be recorded in our min-
ute books and a copy sent to The Woman’s
Exponent.
			MARY E. MAGELBY.


TRIBUTE AND RESOLUTIONS OF
			RESPECT
To the memory of Sister Inger J. Johnson,
from the members of the Sixth Ward Relief
Society, Provo City.
	Sister Johnson was born in Loten Hidmarke,
Norway, March 14th, 1844; was baptized Aug.
7th, 1862, by Brother Jens Peterson.
	When a girl she had a severe illness and
her body was reduced to a comparative shad-
ow, but by faith was miraculously healed by
the power of God, being the first member in the
Church in her native place to receive the ad-
ministration of the Elders.
	Wherein her parents wondered, she then
bore her testimony to them and prophesied
they would join the true Church of Christ.
	She came to Utah with her parents and
brothers and sisters in October, 1864, and en-
tered the sacred order of marriage with the
late Bishop J. P. R. Johnson, November 11th,
1865, by whom she had nine children, seven of
whom survive her, as also her aged mother in
her ninety’fifth year, and other kinsfolk. She
joined the Relief Society when first organ-
ized in Provo, and officiated as a teacher and
counselor up to her demise, which occurred
July 5th, 1911.
	She was a woman of a most exemplary char-
acter, earnest and faithful to a marked degree
and always carried a mild, sweet influence
which endeared her to all.
	Whereas, We feel to exemplify her life, in
which we recognized a choice spirit, and ever
hold her virtues in loving remembrance,
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed
on the record of our Relief Society and a copy
sent to the bereaved family.
				M. A. TILL,
				MAMIE SIMMONS.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	A well attended and extremely interesting
conference of the Bear River Stake Relief
Society convened in the Garland Hall, Wed-
nesday, June 14, 1911, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.
Stake President Julia A. Richards, presid-
ing.
	The visitors of the general bord were
Sisters Clarissa S. Williams and Romania B.
Penrose of Salt Lake City. There were also
present members of the stake presidency,
high councilmen, bishops of wards and other
brethren. Members of the Relief Society
Stake Board present.
	The forenoon was devoted to hearing re-
ports of the different wards, and listening to
the interesting addresses made by the visit-
ing sisters. Morgan Miller of Penrose Ward
rendered a fine solo.
	During the noon hour the Garland sis-
ters served excellent refreshments to all
present.
	Afternoon session.—Sisters Williams and
Penrose delivered splendid addresses. Re-
marks were made by Stake President Mil-
ton H. Welling. Bishop J. M. Stokes and
Elder J. P. Christenson.
	Solo, Margaret W. Manning.
	The conference was of especial interest


[Column 1]
to all, a very good spirit prevailed, and the
visit of the sisters was very much appre-
ciated, also the advice and instruction which
they gave. Attendance was very good.
			MARGARET W. MANNING.
								Secretary.
		BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of Bannock Stake Relief Society
Conference, August 17, 1911.
	Morning session.—President Julia Pond
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, President Julia A. Pond said she was
pleased to meet those present, and she gave
a report of the Relief Society work in the
stake. Reports of the various wards were
given by Rhoda Davis, Rachel Thatcher,
Sisters Eliason, Hogan, and Hanson, and
the president of Lund. Sister Tolman of
Chesterfield reported the Chesterfield So-
ciety.
	Sister Elizabeth McCune of Salt Lake
then spoke, saying she had enjoyed the work
of the Mutual, but now being called to labor
in the Relief Society wished to put all her
energy into the Relief Society. Our mis-
sionaries should be posted upon Relief So-
ciety work so they can be more useful. Spoke
at some length upon Temple work and of the
large attendance there of young people want-
ing to be married. She advised the young
girls to make a nice Temple suit, a pretty
simple dress, and have their own suits to
wear. She said the Relief Society sisters
should have a few Temple suits to rent, and
should see that everything is nice and clean.
	Sister Farnsworth of Salt Lake said she
was pleased to be with the sisters of the
stake. She said that President Emmeline B.
Wells sent her regards to all of the sisters.
Had been a worker in the Relief Society
forty-three years and was glad to be counted
worthy to work in this Society. Had visited
thirteen stakes this year, and had enjoyed
her work. She said that we should be
united in our homes children should re-
spect their parents. She spoke of the ad-
vantages the young people have in schools,
and of the nice looking school buildings they
had seen on the way. She was pleased to
know we were saving up grain.
	President L. S. Pond felt quite familiar
with the Relief Society sisters. The sisters
are indeed blessed to have such a talented
president as Sister Wells. Hoped the sisters
were here with pencil and paper to take
down the notes that will be such a benefit
to us in the future. Advised the sisters
who were expecting to build a granary to
buy a portable steel granary. She spoke to
the teachers about their visits.
	Benediction by Bishop T. H. Horsly.
	Afternoon session.—After the opening ex-
ercises Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of Salt
Lake said she was pleased with the reports
of the Societies. She spoke of the ten cent
fund used for maintaining our headquarters,
traveling expenses and for various other
uses. She spoke at some length on pro-
hibition. It is the duty of the Relief So-
ciety workers to work for prohibition, and
urged the sisters to use their franchise and
use it to the ennobling of mankind.
	Sister McCune spoke of the glory and
honor in having a large family; knew the
prayers of a father and mother in behalf of
their children will be heard, even if they are
wayward none of them will be lost.
	Sister Corbett was pleased to be with us,

[Column 2]
felt to endorse what the sisters had said, es-
pecially in regard to looking after our chil-
dren.
	Sister McClellen had enjoyed the con-
ference. Thought if we could only put into
practice what we had heard, we would be
better off. D. J. Lau enjoyed meeting with
the sisters, felt the sisters were doing one of
the best works in our community. The sis-
ters are the ones we turn to when we have
sickness or sorrow. The brethren should
turn out and help the sisters at this confer-
ence. Spoke of the good instructions that
have been given to us, they were given un-
der the Spirit of God, His heart went out
to the young mothers who are doing their
duty so nobly. We should appreciate the
nstructions of the visiting sisters.
	Bishop Thatcher and Bishop F. H. Horsly
spoke to the sisters.
	President Julia Pond felt very thankful
for the good spirit that had been present and
felt sure all of us would go home being bet-
ter men and women. She thanked the vis-
ting sisters for their good instructions.
	Sister McCune then gave a recitation.
Benediction was pronounced by President
L. S. Pond.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference of the North
Sanpete Stake held in Moroni, July 9, 1911.
	President Williamina Ericksen, presiding.
Meeting opened at 10 a. m. with the
usual exercises. President Hardy of the
Moroni Relief Society welcomed the sisters
to Moroni. Felt they had a good band of
sisters and great interest was manifested.
	Recitation by Ella Baker, of Fairview.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates said that this was the
first time that she had spoken in her new
mission. Spoke of the joy of companionship
with sister Richards, her traveling compan-
on. The mission of motherhood is one of
the most important. Encourage girls in
this respect. Spoke of the Exponent and
asked the support of the paper. Duties of
mothers in the home to instruct the children
to reverence father and all the Church au-
thorities. Said the library movement was
now to be started in Relief Society. Ad-
vised all to get the Church works first. Self-
shness is one of the faults we should try
to overcome.
	Acts of the Apostles, by Carrie L. Erick-
sen.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
	Singing, and prayer by Olive Acord.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent Ericksen presiding.
	Address by President Ericksen, who read
a letter from Sister Leoletta Christensen,
who is sick in California.
	Recitation by Sister Lund of Fountain
Green, “No Room for the Boys.”
	Sister Emily Richards of the General
Board spoke of her early experience
in storing grain. Joseph Smith turned
the key for the emancipation of wom-
en, when he organized the Relief Society.
She spoke of the fall of so many girls be-
cause of ignorance. We should keep the
confidence of our children. She wished our
young people could hear the beautiful things
said to guides, who escort tourists in Salt
Lake City. Girls should have training for
motherhood.
	Quartette by Mt. Pleasant North Ward.
	Sister Susy Y. Gates asked how many had

[Column 3]
read the book of Mormon and the Bible.
The most important thing is the gospel. The
saving of souls is the most important. Spoke
of Temple work and the gathering of gene-
alogies.
	President C. N. Lund endorsed every-
thing that had been spoken.
	Bishop Bradly was thankful for this priv-
lege of receiving such good instructions.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
Spirit of the conference enjoyed by all.
	Song by Clara Larsen, of Moroni.
	Benediction by Jos. Jolly.
		MRS. FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
							Stake Secretary.
			EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Emery Stake, held at Ferron Relief Society
Hall, August 6, 1911. President Louisa
Oveson, presiding.
	Of the General Relief Society Board there
were present, Edna May Davis and Susa
Y. Gates. Conference began with the usual
exercises.
	President Louisa Oveson welcomed the
visiting sisters, and was glad to see so many
present. Gave a brief report of the stake
showing it to be in good condition.
	A recitation was given by Mary A. Davis,
of Clawson.
	Edna May Davis, of the General Board,
said she was pleased to hear that the sisters
were obeying the instructions of Brigham
Young, as to the storing of grain. She ad-
vised the building of concrete granaries, and
said if each Society was not able to build
one for themselves, several could unite and
build one sufficiently large so that each share
holder could have a separate bin. She also
recommended the mixing of slacked lime
with wheat as a preventative against weevil.
Said that girls should be taught to hold
themselves above reproach and to avoid the
society of young men who are not of the
highest moral character; also that young
people should be taught to marry in the Tem-
ple, that girls should not pay too much atten-
tion to dress, and when going to the Temple,
should wear plain white clothes, and after
having been through the Temple should
wear the garment properly, neither cut low
in neck or turned back in neck or sleeves.
	She also stated that Sister Emmeline B.
Wells, General Relief Society President, de-
sired that each Society provide endowment
clothing, and keep on hand to rent, to those
wishing to hire clothing for going to the
Temple, but it would be far better for each
one to have their own Temple clothes.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates conveyed to the sis-
ters the love of President Emmeline B.
Wells, she spoke on Prohibition and Word
of Wisdom. Advised the sisters to try and
conquer their own weaknesses and secretly
fight them out between themselves and their
God.
	After closing exercises, meeting ad-
journed until two o’clock.
	The afternoon session was held in the
Ferron meeting house, Bishop Newel K.
Beal taking charge. After the opening exer-
cises the time was given to the sisters to
proceed with their conference.
	Ex-President Mary A. Sorenson thought
there were three very expedient things to be
observed by Latter-day Saints, they were
obedience, prayer and tithing she also read
a letter from Anne Maria Allen, now absent
from home, working in the mission field.


Song by Golda Woodward and Emma
Judd, of Orangeville.
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke on being
obedient to parents and on being humhle
and not letting pride enter our hearts.
	Sister Susa Young Gates spoke on obedi-
ence in the home and to the Priesthood.
Spoke of young girls not wishing to go to
the Temple on account of being prevented
from following fashions. She gave some
beautiful illustrations of the blessings at-
tending Temple work. Spoke of the ne-
cessity of putting down whiskey and other
like evils, said to begin in the home and not
to allow cards or whiskey in the home. Said
do not sanction evil in any one, but be kind
to the erring and make home sweet and
pleasant as possible. Asked the sisters to
sustain the Exponent, as it was the organ
of the Relief Society.
	Stake President Lois Peter Oveson de-
sired parents to watch over their young peo-
ple that they be led in the right direction.
Denounced the practice of young folks go-
ing on excursions to the mountains with-
out their parents, or some older persons
with them.
	President Louisa Oveson hoped the sis-
ters would take the spirit of the conference
home with them. Thanked the people of
Ferron for their kindness and hospitality,
and Sisters Davis and Gates for the good
instructions they had given.
	Benediction by Stake Counselor A. E.
Wall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
			ENCE.
	The Conference of the General Relief So-
ciety was held in the Assembly Hall, Salt
Lake City, Utah, October 4, 1911. Pres-
ident Emmeline B. Wells presided.
	Morning session, 10 a. m.—After singing
“Come, come ye Saints.” opening prayer
was offered by Elder William Burton. Sing-
ing, “Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
A contralto solo was given by Mrs. Agnes
Olsen Thomas.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a lov-
ing and sympathetic welcome to all to the
conference, and encouraged all to continue
in the great work being accomplished by the
Relief Society, both at home and abroad.
	Mrs. Minerva R. Knowlton, of Davis
Stake, responded to the greeting, express-
ing the love and reverence felt by their ap-
preciation of her efforts in assisting local
and stake organizations.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang a
soprano solo, “O Loving Father.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was the next
speaker, speaking in appreciation of the
work being done by the members of the Re-
lief Society. Referred to the interest now
being taken in working for the dead, relat-
ing several instances in which this work had
been started because of lost ones coming
to make the request in dreams.
	Mrs. Rebecca Standring, President of Al-
pine Stake, gave a favorable report of the
work of the Relief Society in that stake.
Told of the unity of their Board and of the
good work being accomplished by the mis-
sionaries appointed to visit the delinquent
members and the young women and urge
their attendance at the meetings of the Re-
lief Society.
	Mrs. Sarah Fielding Burton, President of
Star Valley Stake, reported that in her stake

[Column 2]
there were many faithful workers, anxious
to make their work a success.
	President Rebecca Rawlins, represented
Benson Stake. She stated that great inter-
est was being manifested in the work. Mem-
bers are being appointed with the special
duty of visiting the aged and the sick, tak-
ing comfort, good cheer, and blessings with
them.
	Mrs. Mary Ellsworth, President of the
Relief Society of the Northwestern Mission
reported the condition of the work in Chi-
cago. She told of the success of the lady
missionaries in preaching the gospel. Their
humility and efforts make them worthy to
be numbered among Zion’s choicest daugh-
ters. Mrs. Ellsworth spoke of her visit to
the places of interest connected with the
early history of the Church, and the knowl-
edge of the truth of the gospel she obtained
from it.
	President E. B. Wells spoke of the
changes in the General Board and intro-
duced the new members: Mrs. Olive D.
Christensen, General Secretary, Mrs. Emma
A. Empey, General Treasurer, Mrs. Amy
B. Lyman, Assistant Secretary, Mrs. Susa
Y. Gates, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss
Sarah E. McLelland, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Caine Crismon, all of whom expressed their
appreciation of their call and their desire
to be of assistance in the work of the Re-
lief Society.
	A ladies’ trio was given by Mrs. Lizzie
Thomas Edward, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thom-
as, and Mrs. Bird, after which benediction
was pronounced by Bishop George Benson.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m.—Congregation
sang, “O Ye Mountains High!” Prayer
was offered by Mrs. Sarah J. Cannon. Prof.
Hugh Dougall sang a baritone solo, “The
Palms.”
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, President of
Pioneer Stake Relief Society, delivered an
address on “What the Present Age Means
to Women,” dealing with it from four im-
portant standpoints, the economic, the edu-
cational, the political and the spiritual. Mrs.
Cannon compared the methods of work used
formerly with those of today, when so many
inventions and mechanical devices have been
perfected, almost revolutionizing some lines
of woman’s labor. This lightening of work
has given to them time for development and
education.
	While in ancient times some women, such
as Miriam, Rebekah, Queen Esther, Hy-
patia, and others, led in thought, this was
not general. Even in our own country in
the early part of the nineteenth century
girls were not allowed in the public schools;
but barriers are now thrown down, and
women are admitted to state universities and
to many great colleges, and enjoy the priv-
ilege of entering professions.
	Reference was made to many unjust laws
referring to property rights of women,
which are gradually giving way for more
liberal laws, so that women now have prop-
erty and civil rights not known before.
	Mrs. Cannon spoke of the awakening of
women to their equality, and of the begin-
ning of the great organization for the bet-
terment of the condition of women and for
equal rights.
	Spiritually the age has done much for
women; in the Salvation Army where the
officers number both men and women, in
the Christian Science Church, the founder
being a woman, and in other churches. With

[Column 3]
the coming forth of the gospel in these days,
the Relief Society was organized, giving
women a part in the work of uplifting hu-
manity. The age means anything and
everything that women may make of it;
with faith in themselves, in their brothers,
in Christ, in the prophets of the Lord, all
things dreamed of may be attained.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne spoke upon,
“What the Age Means to Us,” in place of
Counselor Clarissa S. Willims, who was de-
tained at home on account of illness. Mrs.
Horne stated that what most impressed the
world is truth; truth the base upon which
we stand, truth as revealed by the prophets,
truth which manifests itself through relig-
ion, poetry, music, and art. The present
age has opened advantages of self unfold-
ment, and women are more widely awake
to their possibilities, and impress upon all
this lesson of self development. Women
should oppose slothfulness, backbiting, im-
purity, hypocrisy, foolishness, and turn to
those ready to help, the inspired, the poet,
the thoughtful, the industrious, and they
would be able to impress the world even
more than they do today.
	A soprano solo, “Fear not Ye O Israel,”
was given by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Miss Alice Louise Reynolds gave an ac-
count of her studies and travels abroad, de-
scribing Stratford on Avon in festive garb,
the decorations, flowers, the open air per-
formance of Shakespeare’s plays, and the
demonstrations in honor of the great poet.
Miss Reynolds also told of the great suf-
frage procession in London and the big
meeting in Albert Hall, and read extracts
from Mrs. Pankhurst’s speech at this time.
	President Emmeline B. Wells, in summar-
izing, spoke of the hardships endured to ac-
complish the building of the temples, and
urged the doing of work for the redemption
of the dead, and also in establishing truth,
integrity, and purity in place of the evils
existing today. This they can do, for wom-
en now have the ballot here and thus have
the power to vote for true, clean, and con-
scientious men as local officers, and can
give them moral support and good exam-
ples.
	The entire congregation rose to their feet
to express their approval of the stand for a
clean, moral government.
	After singing by a mixed quartet, “God
be with you till we meet again,” meeting
adjourned until April, 1912.
	Benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Romania B. Penrose.
		OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN,
					General Secretary


ODDS AND ENDS.
	Among the youngsters belonging to a
college settlement in a New England city
was one little girl who returned to her
humble home with glowing accounts of the
new teacher.
	“She’s a perfect lady,” exclaimed the en-
thusiastic youngster, “that’s what she is!”
	“How do you know?” asked the child’s
mother. You’ve only known her two days.”
	“It’s easy enough tellin’,” answered the
child. “I know she’s a perfect lady be-
cause she makes you feel polite all the
time.”—Lippincotts


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE
	The forty-second quarterly conference of
the Alpine Stake of Zion convened in the
Third Ward Chapel of American Fork,
July 21st, 1911. Morning session opened
by singing, “Come Let Us Anew.” Prayer
was led by President A. J. Evans. Continued
by singing, “Softly Beams the Sacred
Dawning.” Several of the Local Presi-
dents were called upon to report their re-
spective wards, after which President Re-
becca Standring gave a brief report of the
Alpine Stake. She said we are just as unit-
ed as we possibly can be; in unity there is
strength. We feel our inability, but we pray
continually for aid and strength to perform
this great work that has been placed upon
us. We are very pleased to welcome our
beloved President Emmeline B. Wells and
one of the General Board, Susa Y.
Gates here today. May the Lord give us
an outpouring of His Spirit in this Confer-
ence that we may have great cause to re-
joice is my prayer.
	Sister Gates was our first speaker,
taking three topics to speak upon, her first
The Saving of Wheat. The great signifi-
cance of this request or counsel given
to us by Our Prophet, Brigham Young,
has certainly developed our hearts. It is not
a selfish movement but purely for others.
Second topic, Collecting a Library for the
Sisters of the Relief Society. Commence
for a foundation with the Church Works.
We need to read more and enlighten our
minds; seek knowledge that we can impart
it to others. Third topic, The Exponent.
This is published for the Relief Society
and should be encouraged more by our
sisters. There is not one line written in this
woman’s paper but what is an uplift. Let
us encourage and sustain all good things in
our homes. I do humbly and sincerely
pray that God will bless our two venerable
presidents, Sisters Wells and Standring,
who are permitted to be with us today. I
am thankful for the privilege of hearing
their sweet voices again. It has been an
inspiration to me all my life to hear the
testimonies of the noble women of God.
Grant that they may live long to do good.
	“Only Remembered by what I have
Done,” was beautifully rendered by Brother
John H. Davis of the First Ward of Amer-
ican Fork. Sister LaPriel Gardner of Amer-
ican Fork, a returned missionary from the
Northern States, said: “I cannot give ex-
pression to the gratitude of my heart for
this blessed privilege of having gone forth
in my weakness and humility to proclaim
the truth to those who are in darkness.” She
made many beautiful comparisons from the
Bible testifying of the truthfulness of our
religion. “May we ever keep the teachings
of the Prophet Joseph Smith burning in our
breasts and that God lives, is my prayer.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, President of
the Relief Society throughout the world,
was our next speaker. She felt very
pleased to meet with her sisters in the Al-
pine Stake. “When I first came into this
house I felt the inspiration of the Holy
Spirit. It is here in rich abundance. I have
always loved the Relief Society since the
days of Nauvoo. Sister Eliza R. Snow
brought with her the records from Nauvoo
which proves that this association was never
discontinued since its first organization, she

[Column 2]
being the first secretary. It is a great priv-
ilege to belong to these associations. If
the sisters only realized the blessings de-
rived from them they would eagerly seek
to join. I am proud of these gatherings of
our sisters.” She remembered well an article
President Young once asked her to write
that it might be recorded pertaining to the
building granaries and various other duties.
He said to get counsel from the brethren in
the taking care of the grain. * * May the
Lord preserve and take care of each of us
that we may live to be examples to the
world is my prayer.
	Brother John H. Davis favored the Con-
ference with the beautiful hymn, “O My
Father.”
	Benediction by Bishop John R. Hindley.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing.
Prayer led by Brother William Southwick.
Continued by singing, “Now Let Us Re-
joice.” President A. J. Evans compli-
mented the sisters on their good looks.
Your faces bear evidence to me that you are
living lives of Latter-day Saints. Spoke to
us about keeping strict guard over our chil-
dren; see that they are not out late hours,
buggy riding unprotected. They are pre-
cious to us even more than some of us re-
alize. Sister Ruby Thornton, another of
our returned missionaries from the Northern
States, felt that she was blessed with many
great privileges and opportunities. Her re-
sponsibility in the Relief Society work in
the mission field had shown her the great
need of these organizations, it is wonder-
ful how the Lord will bless us when we
humble ourselves. The testimonies this
morning have given me a greater deter-
mination to live a good life, to do some of
the good things these sisters have done. I
want to be remembered for the good thingsdone in my life. Sister Susa Y. Gates said,
“These enthusiastic speakers, the lady mis-
sionaries carry with them the only Spirit
that can bring reform among the immoral-
ity of the world. Let us not forget the rev-
erence due the Priesthood and appreciate
our mission as women and never depreciate
being born a woman. It was said of Pres-
ident Young that he once predicted that no
man that ever faltered in the performance
of his duties will ever stand at the head of
this Church, and I feel that I can predict
the same of our women in aspiring to be-
come the elect lady. The Genealogical So-
ciety has been organized to help our people.
If you will set your hearts to do this work
you will find ample time to attend to your
family duties. This has been given to me
as a mission and to teach it to the people
and urge them to see to it, there is so much
of this work to be done and so few that are
doing it.
	A reading entitled “Only a Girl.” given
by Sister Justesen of the Third Ward of
American Fork. Singing by Sister Fern
Vance, “The Songs My Mother Used to
Sing.” We were privileged to have our
beloved President Sister Wells talk to us
again Her remarks continued on the days
of Nauvoo and of the lives of the great
men and women of our Church. There
are very few left who knew the Prophet.
The women who served and waited upon
him are few and far between. We honor
their memories. She eulogized the beauti-

[Column 3]
ful characters of Emma Smith, Mother
Whitney, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young,
and our late President Bathsheba W. Smith,
having been personally acquainted with
them all. We find very little written about
the women. They do not figure as largely
in history as do the men, but then good
deeds are recorded in the book of life. She
heard the Prophet Joseph deliver all of his
last sermons, remembered distinctly the time
that he was being guarded from his ene-
mies, the terrible cloud that hung over the
city the time of the martyrdom. I pray that
the Lord will bless you to work for the dead
as well as the living and live lives that are
worthy the name of Latter-day Saints.”
	President Standring bore testimony to
that which had been said. “I feel thankful
that my Heavenly Father has strengthened
me this day and that I have been permitted
to partake of the Spirit of this Conferenec.
I love this work and can safely say that I
have never opposed any principle of the
Gospel or any man in authority. I want
to use the power God has given me to do
and say the things that will exalt and purify
us all. May the Lord bless you, my dear
sisters, and spare your lives to meet again
in another Conference.”
	Sister E. J. T. Roberts thanked the Sis-
ters of American Fork for the nice lunch-
eon served in the building at the noon hour,
making it much easier for the sisters to at-
tend Conference.
	President Chipman rejoiced in the testi-
mony borne this day, for the (beautiful
singing, readings and everything that had
been said. Let us trust in the Lord and
He will guide us in our paths.
	After the closing hymn, benediction was
pronounced by Counselor Harriet Jacobs
and conference adjourned for three months.
				SINA CHIPMAN,
						Secretary.


HOLDS BIG JUBILEE.
	All suffragists within reach of New York
were summoned by the National Associa-
tion to take part in a monster celebration of
the California victory at Cooper Union Fri-
day night. It was arranged to display the
new six-star banner for the first time and
to introduce the new six-star buttons. Pop-
pies enough were ordered to make the hall
look like a real California mesa, arrange-
ments having meen made to have all the
suffrage organizations of New York and vi-
cinity represented on the platform by their
respective officers and banners, and a brass
band engaged. Invitations to speak were
accepted by Rev. Anna Howard Shaw,
president of the National Association Miss
Harriet May Mills, president of the New
York State Association Mrs. James Lees
Laidlaw, chairman of Manhattan borough
for the woman Suffrage party Mrs. Har-
riot Stanton Blatch, president of the Wom-
en’s Political Union; Mrs. Gerberding, and
Mrs. Mary Austin of California and Isaac
Stevens of Denver.
	Mrs. Lees, Mayor of Oldham in England,
has long been the most beloved citizen of
that place. She increased her popularity
still further during the recent labor troubles,
when she succeeded, by her personal exer-
tions in bringing about a settlement of a
strike which had tied up all the street cars
for five days.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 40.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1911						No. 4.


CONTENTS.
Transplanted—a Thanksgiving Story....
	.......................Annie Wells Cannon	25
Missionary Experiences..Lydia D. Alder	27
Notes About Women...............................	29
Self-Control............................................	30
Freakish Dress Foe to Suffrage..............	30
Household Hints.....................................	32
Relief Society Reports:
	Carbon Stake..................................	30
	Yellowstone Stake..........................	30
	St. Joseph Stake..............................	31
	Portland Branch, Oregon................	31
	Uintah Stake...................................	31
	Big Horn Stake...............................	32
Editorial:
	John Henry Smith, A Tribute..........	28
	John Smith, Patriarch.....................	28
	Utah Women at Chicago.................	29
	Editorial Notes................................	29
Obituary Notes:
	Mary Ann Whittle...........................	32
	Christiana S. Rasmussen................	32
	Mary Pratt Young...........................	32
	Margaret H. Clark...........................	32
Poetry:
	November..........................Selected	25
	Uplift........................Ellis R. Shipp	25


NOVEMBER.
I find sweet peace in depth of Autumn woods,
	Where grow the ragged ferns and roughened
		moss;
The naked silent trees have taught me this,—
	The loss of beauty is not always loss.
							—Selected.


UPLIFT.
(Dedicated to Mrs. Marguerite Marian Blake.)
Do we in life e’er pause and think what joys,
	what blessings we may gain,
If we from duty never shrink to what great
	heights we may attain?
If we the paths of right pursue, with earnest
	toil and faith sublime.
There is no task too hard to do, no peak too
	steep to climb!

We have the power to overcome ourselves—
	to live in sweetest peace—
In love, with all at home, where truest joys
	should never cease.
No matter if our mortal powers should fail, our
	heartstrings bleed and ache,
We still must hope through trying hours, have
	faith that God will ne’er forsake.

We have the power to scatter flowers of love
	and kindness on the way,
Though adverse winds may bring us showers
	of pain and sorrow every day,
We still may smile and look above, find re-
	compense for mortal woe,
Though chastened still we feel the love of Him
	whose mercies we e’er know.

’Tis possible to radiate a beam of hope to way-
	ward men,
Console the heart most desolate—make souls
	look up, rejoice again,
Rejoice in faith, that One above e’er maketh all
	things right and plain,
In blessing others with our love our waning
	hope revives again.

However poor, or sick, or weak, a mortal man
	or woman is,
They still a helpful word may speak, bring
	peace and sacred bliss;
However frail, or small, or young, the babe
	within your arms may be,
It still may speak with potent tongue uplift
	humanity.

Again beyond, above all power of life’s most
	fond, supreme desire,
There blooms a fair exquisite flower, there,
	burns a bright immortal fire.
The blessed thought that we still live, when all
	this mortal strife is o’er,
Tis possible e’en life to give, and know that
	God will all restore.—Ellis R. Shipp.


[Column 1]
TRANSPLANTED—A THANKSGIVING
				STORY.
	The old-fashioned farmhouse with its
broad halls and long staircases, its deep
casement windows and great fireplaces, had
been a scene of merriment and rejoicing all
day. The grown sons and daughters with
their families had come home to partake of
the Thanksgiving cheer and the youngsters
at home had sported and romped with their
young nephews and nieces, and the youths
and maidens had entertained their guests
with games and music, for this was an old-
fashioned family of many children, as well
as an old-fashioned home, and all had gath-
ered for a real old-fashioned Thanksgiving
time. On such a day the old are young and
the young are old, and the beaming counte-
nance but reflects the loving heart. Father
and mother had welcomed them all, had giv-
en bounteously of harvest gathering. There
had been the hearty dinner with the great
russet brown turkeys, sauces, vegetables, and
all the usual accompaniments including the
steaming plum pudding surrounded with
blue flames and the golden pumpkin pies that
“no one could make like mother,” and after
that the passing of rosy apples and pans
of snowy popcorn, until, surfeited with good
things and happy hours, the little ones be-
gan to weary. Goodnights were said and
the young families betook themselves to
their own firesides.
	The children at home drew their chairs
close around the fireside, reserving a central
place for father and mother, and settled
down for a quiet hour before the final hymn
and prayer were said. “Now, mother, for a
story—some good old-fashioned story for
us to sleep on,” was the cry, and mother,
finding rest and comfort herself in these
reminiscent hours, narrated the story of

		TANTE DORETTE.
	We had been traveling for several days
in the interest of our society work—Aunt
Janie and I, and one morning we drove to a
farm house out on the southern desert sev-
eral miles from the railroad terminal. We
were both quite tired and very hungry, and
from the appearance of the place neither
one of us expected much entertainment, for
the house was a small frame and the sur-
roundings boasted of no particular comfort.
The interior, however, was a surprise, and
belied the rude and desolate appearance
outside. Around the walls, covered with
painted burlap, were shelves filled with
choice books; some beautiful prints, copies
of the masters, and one rare piece of tapestry
were suspended above the shelves, while on
a small table by the window were a few
dainty pieces of china and glass. But the
greatest surprise of all was the quaint little
woman who welcomed us within. Neither
of us could tell you if she was old or young,
plain or beautiful, but one thing we were
both agreed upon: she was perfectly charm-
ing. Hair wavy and slightly gray, eyes
bright and black as night, medium height,
slender and graceful, she extended to greet
us a long, slender hand, brown with ex-

[Column 2]
posure, but not hard as her pioneer life
would lead you to think, and with the grace
and decorum of a duchess bade us enter
her humble home. After we had taken off
our wraps, shaken the dust of the desert
from our clothing and freshened our toil-
ettes somewhat, we drew our chairs up to
the heater at the end of the room and en-
tered into a speculation about the early life
and history of our hostess while she was
absent in another room, preparing a lunch
for us.
	“Aunt Janie, I know she’s French,” I
said impulsively, “and has a history worth
the telling, let’s get it out of her.” “I think
she is Swiss, probably a weaver of silk, did
you notice the tapestry on the wall?” re-
plied Aunt Janie. “Some of our early Swiss
converts were quite well off, but how they
were ever landed in this desert is a mystery
to me. Anyway, she’s a charming old lady,
and I mean to make the most of the hour
we stay here by finding out about these
books and this china and glass. Why, those
vases look Venetian, do come nearer and
look at them. See how iridescent and thin
they are.”
	The subject of our conversation just then
entered the room to announce that our din-
ner was ready. I felt very much embar-
rassed that she should find me examining
her treasures, but with an apology explained
that I had been attracted towards the table
by the delicate coloring in the glass. She
seemed not annoyed but pleased, and said
few people who came that way seemed to
appreciate such things, yet they were most
precious to her, for she had brought them
from her “own dear Italy.” We both laughed
to ourselves at our stupid guessing; for here
she was neither French nor Swiss, but Ital-
ian.
	It seemed almost unreal, this dainty, deli-
cious lunch, served by this quiet, beautiful
lady in such an out-of-the-way, desolate
place. We found her more than willing to 
tell her story, in fact she declared it was a
comfort and pleasure to meet sympathetic
and interested listeners, for the pioneer life
at best is lonely and hard where the occa-
sional visitor is generally a cowboy looking
for lost cattle or a drummer with his case of
samples on his way to the next town—the
conversation of either one of little interest to
a cultivated woman.
	“Yes,” she began with a little sigh, “it is
very strange, our coming here; but it shows
how the gospel reaches out and finds the
true seed. We were the only ones in our
village and for miles around who would even
listen to the elders and I think the reason
must have been because we were of differ-
ent origin. My father’s people, you know,
were French Huguenots who fled from
France at the time of the Thirty Years’ war,
fled in the night time,”——just then I 
nudged Aunt Janie knowingly, for the guess
I had made in the beginning—whispering
blood tells, you know, even to the third and
fourth generation——“crossed the border
into Switzerland and, there in an Alpine vil-
lage not far from the city of Berne, high in 
the Oberland, found a refuge and lived in


[Column 1]
the enjoyment of their freedom. It was
there my grandfather was born and lived.
He married a Swiss peasant maiden who
boasted of wonderful ingenuity in fine
needlework and lacemaking.”
	It was now Aunt Janie’s turn to smile,
for here the Swiss guess was proven cor-
rect, and we both laughed at our different
surmises so oddly fulfilled.
	“My father,” she continued, “as he grew
to manhood was not satisfied with the Swiss
life, and was seized with the ‘wanderlust’ as
the Germans say; and left home while still
a youth to seek his fortune in another land.
He crossed the Alps into Italy and found
work among the Piedmontese with a
wealthy vintner. The soft winds and balmy
air of northern Italy somewhat toned his
rugged Alpine disposition, and he soon
adapted himself to the work in the vine-
yards and became a great favorite in the
family of his employer, especially with the
black-eyed signorita whom he married when
she was only sixteen years old. Thus es-
tablished as heirs of the family, the larger
part of the vineyard was given my father
and mother; and in their pretty home, built
on the slope of the hill, with terrace after
terrace covered with most beautiful grape
vines spread out in front, and long paths
shaded with olive trees and great wisteria
vines hanging over the windows and doors—
there I was born and raised.”
	For a moment she seemed lost in reverie
as this picture presented itself and in the
silence we both thought of the vast differ-
ence to this poor woman from the shaded,
vine-clad hills of northern Italy to the bleak-
ness of this broad, level desert home, with
its sagebrush and mesquite.
	Presently she resumed: “When I was
five years old I had a very strange dream
and very real, so real, in fact, that I awoke
with a scream and ran down the stairs where
my father was just starting the morning
fire. It seemed as though my room was
flooded with a great light and standing at
the foot of my bed were two strange men,
dressed not as we dressed in Italy but in a
fashion peculiar to me, and in their hands
each one held a book with a gold cover. One
of them, a tall, dark, slender man, spoke
to me in these words: ‘To this house we
have brought the book of life—to your fath-
er and his household and his ancestors the
way is open—come!’ Now that I am older,
I think those were the very words; of course
as a child I could not repeat them so; but
one thing, I know they said ‘Come;’ and I
was so startled, and believed they had come
to carry me away, that I clung to my father
and would not let him leave me all that day.
In fact for a long time I never went out to
play with my little friends, and if a stran-
ger came to the farm I used to go away in
secret and pray for protection and conceal
myself in my mother’s room. But as the
years passed this fear left me, though the
remembrance of the dream never became
even dim in my mind.
	“On my sixteenth birthday a stranger ap-
plied for work among the vines and during
the day he told my father that on the way to
our village he had had a singular encounter
with two men from a new country. One
spoke to him a strange language, then in
broken French; but he understood so little
that the other, who spoke the Sicilian dia-
lect, undertook to explain that they had a
new religion, that the Christ had again ap-
peared, and all the people were to be taught

[Column 2]
the new gospel. My father was very much
impressed with what the laborer, Pietro, told
him, and began to inquire as to which road
the men had taken, and further as to what
they had said; but the only information he
could get was that they had gone over the
hill beyond us towards the mountains;
Pietro had thought their actions unusual
because they had asked him to pray with
them, and when he refused, the taller man
—he thought him English—spoke with great
feeling and raised his hand in which he held
a book, above him; but though he could
not understand the words, the incident made
him feel very uneasy, and he could not
throw off the peculiar feeling, which was
why he had told about it now.
	“When my father came in to dinner he
related this to my mother and me, and to all
three of us at once the thought of the dream
came back. ‘It is the child’s dream,’ ex-
claimed my mother; and we all knew that
something of a different nature had entered
our lives.
	“That afternoon my father did not return
to the vineyard but sat for hours musing
before the door. Toward evening, as
though suddenly resolved, he came to my
mother and said: ‘I must find them;’ and
turning to me he said, ‘Little Dorette, be
not afraid; I will bring them back and we
shall see your beautiful book.’
	“For two days my father walked in their
wake, never overtaking them but learning
that two such men had passed the way be-
fore him and hearing of the words they
had left behind. Towards evening of the
third day he reached a little chapel high on
the mountain side, approached by a single
path through the forest of trees. Entering
the door he found six or eight people assem-
bled listening to the strange words of a tall,
straight man; and though the language was
foreign, yet the spirit of what he said
seemed to hold them almost breathless.
When this one had finished another man
interpreted his words in the Sicilian dialect
and then himself said: ‘I know this is the
truth.’
	“My father had seated himself at the
back, and after the men had finished speak-
ing and the people began to go away, he
went up to them and said: ‘I want you to
come back with me to my home.’ He re-
turned with them that night to a village and
paid for their entertainment, and next day
brought them to our home. On the way the
tall man told him of Joseph Smith and his
mission, and bore testimony of the Truth, of
the gospel being restored. My father does
not know to this day how it was that he
understood it all, for he knew not a word
of English nor did his companion know any
Italian, or even German, my father’s na-
tive tongue; yet they conversed in perfect
understanding of each other.
	“My mother and myself saw them ap-
proaching the house, and the earnest man-
ner of them all and the lightness of their step
caused us to feel that something of a pleas-
ant nature awaited us; and we were most
happy, for father’s long absence had caused
us not a little uneasiness. As soon as the
evening meal was over, my father described
to us his journey and how he felt all the
time impelled to keep on until he found
them, never once thinking of turning back,
and would have so continued going on for
weeks had it been necessary, for he knew
they had for him something greater than
earthly treasures.

[Column 3]
	“The result of it was that my father,
my mother, and myself were baptized into
the Church, but my dear mother never lived
to come to America. When we were just
about ready to leave she was taken very ill
and our journey was delayed a year, hoping
that she would recover; but she had con-
tracted consumption, which finally overcame
her, and we buried her on the hillside near
our cottage. The neighbors had thought my
father crazy to shelter and befriend the
elders, and the pious people refused to have
my mother buried in the churchyard, be-
cause of our strange belief. We never had
been Catholics, though my mother’s people
were, and our home had always been a rest-
ingplace for any who had liberal views.
	“We came to America and to Zion, my
father and I, and we are not sorry, though
sometimes we miss our beautiful Italy. Per-
haps had we not come south where we were
told it was balmier and more like our old
home we could better have adapted our-
selves; but we planted a beautiful vineyard
on the Santa Clara and made most excel-
lent wine. But my husband is American and
not content with a little vineyard; he must
reach out after big things; so here we are in
this lonely place where they tell us some
day big capitalists are coming to draw oil
from the earth and then maybe I will be rich
enough to go back to Italy, Switzerland and
France and obtain all the records of my
ancestors and do for them a great work.
For this I am willing to wait, but really
waiting is very monotonous.”
	I rather surprised the quaint little lady at
this juncture by throwing my arms about
her impulsively, saying: “Just one more
lovely testimony of the honest in heart.”
By this time our team was ready and we
had to proceed on our way.

	I do not know whether the oil wells or
the vineyards yielded the money, but Aunt
Dorette and her father made a long visit
to their native land soon afterwards and
doubtless returned with work enough to
keep them busy for a long time to come.
	Well, children, this is only one of the
thousands of stories of how God’s ministers
are led to the honest in heart, and how they
bring to them the light and truth. Maybe
you can guess who the tall, dark man was
when I tell you he was the one who intro-
duced the gospel into Italy, was an Apostle
of the Lord in these our days, and lived to
be the President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world.
And now Goodnight and Happy Dreams.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


In view of the increasing interest in the
question of Woman Suffrage, the New York
World recently asked a number of public
men to give their opinion on the subject. Re-
plies were received from no less than ten
governors of states, every one of whom fa-
vored the proposition, and predicted its ul-
timate success. As illustrating the view
thus held, the reply of Gov. Mann of Vir-
ginia may be quoted: “In my opinion, the
women of Virginia will have equal suffrage
within ten years. Evolution of the demo-
cratic form of government leads irresist-
ibly to this logical result, and, however dis-
tasteful it may be to some, we might as well
face it and prepare for its coming.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
	These experiences thronged into my
mind one day, when I rapped at the door of
a house, in a long row of houses, in a nice
part of Stratford. I had gone all over that
district with first tracts some time before
and was now leaving seconds. A lady
opened the door, and I was explaining the
tract to her when a man’s voice from within
called out, “Come in, I want to see you!”
	Glad of an invitation, I entered without
delay; followed the lady into the parlor,
where a large round table was spread for
tea. A man, I should say of nearly eighty
years, met us at the door. “I want to tell
you,” he said, “that the explanation you
gave of Rev. 14:6, 7 is not correct. It does
not mean a literal angel at all.” After ex-
plaining his idea of the passage, he told me
of a distant relative, who, years ago, had
gone to Utah, and died there, and her fu-
neral expenses had been sent to, or reverted
to him in some way, and he was, even now,
furious about it. He had asked me to be
seated, while he stood before me, accusing
some person unknown to me, of sending his
own mother’s funeral expenses to him to
defray, and on account of this we were im-
posters of the worst kind. When he grew
tired he looked at me (I had not said
much), and said, “You are a good woman,
and sincere, but you are deluded; do you
mind having a word of prayer with me?”
“Not in the least!” So we three knelt
down, and he prayed long and fervently that
the Lord would lead me to his truth, and
make his will plain to me from the error of
my ways to serve him, etc. All this I
could conscientiously subscribe to, so I sol-
emnly joined in his “Amen.” If there was
one thing I desired more than another, it
was that I should understand the truth,
and I was willing to forsake all my errors,
when I found it. When we arose he faced
me again. I said, “You have had your say,
now I will have mine,” and straightway de-
clared that the calling of Joseph Smith was
divine, explaining it. Asserted that Moroni
was the angel spoken of by John and that
some ungrateful son, failing in his duty to
his parent, had nothing to do with the gos-
pel. And I won. The spirit that always ac-
companies the declaration of the truthful-
ness of the mission of Joseph Smith filled
the room and he quieted down. Before this
he had said that if I brought another tract
to his house, in the fire it would go. I
had then turned to his wife, and said, “I
pay for those tracts, and it would be a pity
to burn them,” and she handed them back
to me. Now he said, “if my wife desires
to read those tracts she may.” I handed them
to her again. While all this had been go-
ing on, their children had gathered in the
room, so that we had quite a little meeting;
all of whom were listening to this, to them,
strange conversation. We parted, in a most
friendly manner, the gentleman accompany-
ing me to the door. When we found it
was raining, he proffered me an umbrella,
but I always carried one on my arm. I
earnestly prayed over this man and his fam-
ily that night, plead with the Almighty to
aid him to see and understand the truth.
	Next day, as I was wont to do, I again
visited that row of houses, knocking at the
doors, where I had received no answer on
the previous day. What was my surprise
when the knock on a certain door was an-
swered by the aged minister (you can al-

[Column 2]
ways tell them by the low, round collar, and,
on the street the little low black hat), I had
met yesterday. “You do not live here?” I
nquired. “No, this is my son’s house who
is away. I came to see if all was right.”
“Did you read the tracts?” I asked. His
aged face was working convulsively, and his
hand trembled as he stretched it out to me
and said, “Have you some more tracts?”
The Spirit had borne witness to him of the
truth, and before me was the proof of the
anguish that will come to those who do not
obey it. “May I bring you the Book of
Mormon?” which he had not seen. “Yes.”
“May I bring the elders? You would en-
joy talking with them?” “No; I would
rather talk to you; you come again” Sol
placed him on my reading list of investi-
gators and soon called again, leaving some
more tracts, a Book of Mormon and Life
of Brigham Young. I called again in about
three weeks. The books were ready for
me, but I was informed that he was out,
but did not want any more literature. So
I never saw him again.
	The winter passed as did the one before.
It was so cold that often I did not know
whether I walked on sticks or feet. The
door mats in England are let into the floor,
on the inside, so that the door will open
over them. When I was so very cold, I
would ask the lady to let me stand on the
mat, while I talked to her about the tract I
had brought which introduced the Gospel.
“To be sure, come in,” she would some-
times say, and offer me a cup of tea, and a
piece of cake. I accepted a cup of hot water
quite often, with many thanks. Sometimes
she would let me warm my feet by the open
fire (always an open grate, and though the
fires of thousands of years have been going
up in the air, it is not warm yet outside,
and never very warm inside).
	My companion, Miss Farnsworth, lodged
not very far away from us, so we could
visit occasionally. It was rather a queer
household where we lived. The man, I felt
sure, was the black sheep of some aristo-
cratic family, who had married a barmaid.
(She was a gentle, sweet little woman, the
mother of two children). He tried some
of his charming ways upon us, but found
we were as coldly polite as any English
lady, so we won the wife’s respect, and
lived in her home as long as we remained
in Stratford. (I say her home, because he
was mostly away in London), and before
leaving England, when we called at the
house, we were informed that he was in
prison for some of his dark deeds, and his
wife had gone home to her father. Our
presiding elder held a priesthood meeting
once a week, which was a joy to us all, for
while the elders lived in Stratford we lived
in Leyton, a suburb, and did not see each
other except on Sundays. Comparing notes
and talking over our experiences, with
necessary instructions, we found very ben-
eficial. As soon as the weather permitted
we began our street meetings, where many
friends we had made came to hear us,
among them our landlady, who also came
to the hall the last Sunday evening we were
there. We had learned to love the saints
during our stay among them, and I trust
we had been a blessing to them. My health
was not the best. It was always damp on
the streets, either from rain or sprinkling,
so that I contracted a cold, perhaps from
inhaling the damp air; any way a severe

[Column 3]
cough seized me, which was hard for me,
and disagreeable to the folks in the house.
	In the latter part of March the Confer-
ence was called in London. Before leaving
we promised our landlady to come back to
her, if we were returned to Stratford. Are
those tarred with the same brush as our-
selves? How like oases in the desert are
these meetings to the missionary! In a city
where daily thousands of people thronged
the marts it was next to never we saw a fa-
miliar face. “By this ye shall know that
ye have passed from death unto life, if ye
love the brethren,” and sisters too, might
be added.
	This is in our thoughts as we meet again
in Conference. And this is to be our last
one in London, as well as that of the pres-
idency, they having been released to return
home. President McMurrin was away on
the Continent.
	We were returned to Stratford for the
time being, but President Lyman said we
would be released from field labor April 25
and he invited us to accompany them to
some of the Conferences, so that the saints
might see some of the sisters from Utah,
and we might have a little holiday before
our return home.
	The intervening time we spent in closing
up our work in Stratford, taking leave of
the friends we had made, and bidding fare-
well to the Saints who had done much to
make our stay among them pleasant I de-
voted much time to my class of investiga-
tors, to whom I was greatly attached One
lady said “there were prophets of old, and
I could not say there were to be no more;
if I had heard your doctrine before I made
my friends in life I believe I would have
embraced it.” Another said, “Well, good-
bye! I will look for you in the next world.”
“And I will look for you,” I said: “then
you will know that the testimony I leave
with you is true.” This solemn death
testimony was very strong and we reluc-
tantly parted from each other. I did not
go to see a woman where I once called with
a tract. “Come in,” she said, “I am pretty
good myself; often in the night I hear the
rustling of the angels’ wings.” Afterwards
I learned she was not a good woman, and
was warned not to go there.
	Many hundreds of tracts had been deliv-
ered in Stratford and as many testimonies
borne (as I never left a tract until I could
see the people and explain it). How many
of them will cast their lots with us in time
to come I know not. The seed has been
sown, in humility, prayer and tears, but
God it is who gives the increase We will
now leave it with him.
	One family of saints here have twined
themselves very closely around my heart.
In parting they clung to me weeping that I
must leave them. They appealed so much
to me that after my return home it was my
blessed privilege to bring them to Zion, rais-
ing the money by lectures and concerts,
some of the elders who labored in Strat-
ford (a part of London) lending their aid.
And they have done well, and, after several
years are still faithful and true. They num-
bered seven when I brought them out;
they now number ten: father, mother and
eight promising children. We left London
April 25, sailing from Stepney for Newcas-
tle-on-Tyne for the Conference.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


28			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	 NOVEMBER, 1911


[Column 1]
JOHN HENRY SMITH—A TRIBUTE.
	Better than to be the conqueror of a city
or to rise to victorious heights by treading
the proud passages of human ambition, is
to lose selfishness in the service of God and
to fill one’s days with love of humankind.
Earthly glories and vanities flash and flat-
ter for a time, but soon pass away. En-
during happiness of the completest kind is
only to be gained in the way the Master in-
dicated: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy
God with all thy heart, and thy neighbor
as thyself.”
	This admonition is instinctively brought
to mind when one thinks of John Henry
Smith, servant of God and friend of human-
ity, whose mortal life ended on the 13th of
last month. He was indeed a man to be sin-
cerely mourned, for the relation he sustained
to those who knew him was of the personal,
intimate sort that makes the sense of be-
reavement heartfelt and deep. At some
men’s death we feel a consciousness of great
public loss—we stand stricken, as it were
afar off, in admiration of their conspicuous
talents, and wonderment as to where suc-
cessors shall be found to carry forward
worthily their mighty work. At other men’s
death, we bow in actual sorrow as when the
blow comes against one near and dear to us,
the wound being close to our own heart.
The latter feeling is the one notably mani-
fested at the removal of this beloved chief-
tain in Israel, John Henry Smith.
	Brother John Henry was in the best sense
an optimist. He never from choice looked
at the gloomy side of any situation. When
clouds really were dark and heavy, he was
still cheerful and full of hope. He carried
into his ripe manhood the buoyancy of
youth, to which no obstacle seems insur-
mountable. No weight of years could have
made him old; and his big boyish heart
found fitting place in his fine physical form,
and fitting expression in his warm and affec-
tionate manner. He was a believer in the
germ of goodness that is innate in every
soul, for he looked upon all men as his broth-
ers. He consigned no one to perdition for a
single sin or even a series of them, but with
warm handclasp and hearty words of cheer
he reached out after the erring and rejoiced
in their repentance; this while he abhorred
impurity and had no sympathy with any
form of wrong-doing. But his strong sense
of justice was always tempered with the
splendid attribute of mercy. No bigot he,
though knowing beyond peradventure that
many wilfully chose darkness rather than

[Column 2]
the light which he had received. Hence he
came to deserve the praise that was so gen-
erally accorded him, and mentioned prom-
inently at his obsequies,—he was tolerant
of other men’s beliefs and charitable to all
men’s weaknesses. This would be a hap-
pier world and a better, if there were more
like him in this respect.
	Perhaps no man ever had in more marked
degree than he the gift of making and re-
taining friends. It would be no less uncom-
plimentary than untrue to say he was with-
out enemies. The very qualities that lead
to enduring esteem are sure to provoke oc-
casional and sometimes bitter antipathies. Of
this good man, however, it may be truth-
fully said that while there may have been
those who disliked him, there was not one
against whom he treasured enmity. From
no person worthy of an honorable man’s
friendship was his withheld. And that,
after all, is as far as any man’s self-respect
and honorable sense should permit him to
go.
	It is not the purpose of these lines to in-
dulge in praise or panegyric of this departed
leader in Zion. The Saints all knew and
loved him. His days from infancy have been
spent among the people in these mountain
valleys, and his life has been an open book,
filled with good and faithful deeds, with
acts and words of helpfulness, with constant
devotion to the cause of Truth, with im-
pulses and motives alike an inspiration to the
young, and a comfort to the old, a faithful
soldier of the Cross gone to his sure re-
ward. He will be greatly missed and sin-
cerely mourned, and his memory will ever
be kept green in the hearts of the people
who loved him for the true man that he was.

	John Henry Smith was born near Kanes-
ville, now Council Bluffs, Iowa, Sept. 18,
1848. His parents were George A. and
Sarah Ann Libby Smith. George A. was a
cousin of the Prophet Joseph, their fathers
being brothers, Joseph’s father being Joseph,
and George A.’s father being John, and both
having filled the position of presiding patri-
arch of the Church. The infant John Henry
was brought by his parents to the Valley in
1849, where two years later his mother died,
after being an invalid for many years. He
was reared by his mother’s sister, Hannah
Maria, also a wife of his father, and was al-
ways proud to testify of the influence of this
good, forceful woman upon his life. His
boyhood years were spent in Provo, where
he received such meager educational oppor-
tunities as the schools of those early days af-
forded and he later became a telegraph oper-
ator, and was chosen counselor in the Fourth
ward bishopric. After the completion of the
transcontinental railroad, upon which he la-
bored in the employ of Benson, Farr and
West, he having married in 1866 a daughter
of one of the firm, Lorin Farr, he declined
the offer of a good railroad position in Cali-
fornia, and returned home, and during the
next few years traveled extensively among
the settlements of the Saints in company
with his father and President Young. He
was called on a mission to England in 1874,
but was hastily summoned home the next
year by reason of his father’s severe illness,
arriving only two weeks before that great
man’s death. He re-entered the railway em-
ploy, but was soon after ordained bishop of
the Seventeenth ward, Salt Lake City. He
was chosen an Apostle in October, 1880, and
two years later went again to England, as

[Column 3]
president of the European mission, returning
late in 1884. He became a member of the
First Presidency in April, 1910, after the
death of President John R. Winder, occupy-
ing this high position for a year and a half,
his death occurring suddenly from hemor-
rhage early on the morning of Friday, Oct.
13. Besides the ecclesiastical offices referred
to, he has held many important political and
business positions, being prominent in every
movement looking toward the advancement
of the state, and enjoying a nation-wide ac-
quaintance with and prominence among men
of affairs. In conventions and congresses
where leaders of men meet together to dis-
cuss public questions he was a well-known
and influential figure, and, as said above, had
an almost incomparable gift for making and
retaining friends.
						A. W. C.


JOHN SMITH, PATRIARCH.
	It is very seldom that it becomes necessary
to record in the same issue of any journal
the death of two distinguished members of
the same family, both very prominent in the
community of which they formed a part.
Such becomes the unusual and unhappy duty
of the Exponent at this time.
	Mention has already been made of the de-
mise of President John Henry Smith. His
co-laborer and kinsman, John Smith, presid-
ing patriarch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, obeyed the final sum-
mons and passed to his rest late in the night
of Monday, the 6th of November, three
weeks lacking one day after his cousin was
laid in the tomb. Within a month, there-
fore, the Church has had the sorrowful ex-
perience of parting from two valiant chief-
tains in the cause of Truth, and the Taber-
nacle has twice within that brief period put
on funeral drapery and been the gathering
place of mourning thousands. The double
bereavement recalls in some respects, though
without the awful circumstances, the trag-
edy at Carthage, in 1844, when the father of
one of these leaders and the uncle of both of
them, met their fate at assassins’ hands,
united in death as they had been united in
life.
	John Smith, the fourth presiding patri-
arch of the Church, was the oldest son of
Hyrum Smith, patriarch and martyr, and
therefore a brother of President Joseph F.
Smith. He was born at Kirtland, Ohio,
September 22, 1832, his mother, Jerusha
Barden, dying when he was five years old.
As a lad he went to Missouri with his father,
and his early boyhood was spent among the
cruel scenes enacted there against the
Saints; he was also among those banished
from the city of Nauvoo, moving westward
with the family of Heber C. Kimball. While
camped on the banks of the Missouri river
near the present city of Council Bluffs he
tenderly nursed back to health Col. Thomas
L. Kane, the devoted friend of the perse-
cuted Saints who, while engaged in con-
tinual efforts to help them, had contracted
a fever from which he almost died. Brother
Smith here rejoined his father’s family, and
remained with them at Winter Quarters on
this side of the river until 1848, when he
came to the Salt Lake valley, arriving on
his sixteenth birthday.
	He was ordained to his high office on the


18th of February, 1855, previous incum-
bents having been his grandfather, his father
and his grand-uncle. In 1862 he was called
on a mission to Scandinavia, and started out
to cross the plains on horseback without
purse or scrip. His way was opened up be-
fore him, however, and he fulfilled a lengthy
and honorable mission, during which he
mastered the Scandinavian languages.
	While a man of retiring disposition, and 
not given to multiplying of words or seek-
ing after prominence in public speaking or
public affairs, he was nevertheless widely
known and beloved for his goodness of
heart. He was spiritual in a marked degree,
as became his patriarchal lineage and call-
ing, and he loved to promise rich blessings 
upon the heads of those deserving of them.
An instance of his obedience to the prompt-
ings of the Spirit was narrated at his funer-
al: to a man who came to receive a blessing
under his hands, he replied that he did not
feel like complying at the time; such a 
blessing as the visitor desired he did not feel
able to pronounce, while such promises as
he probably should be led to make, his vis-
itor would not like to hear; and it subse-
quently transpired that the applicant proved
himself altogether unworthy.
	All the speakers at his funeral, which
took place on the 12th inst., testified to his
excellence as a man and his fidelity as a
servant of the Lord; the vast audience in 
attendance attested by their presence the es-
teem in which he was held; and the many
thousands thoroughout Zion who knew and
have been benefited by association with him
will unite in mourning his loss and honoring
his memory.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


UTAH WOMEN AT CHICAGO.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, Mrs. Amy B. Ly-
man, Assistant General Secretary, and Mrs.
Ardella W. Eardley of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
were in attendance at the executive session
of the National Council of Women held in 
Chicago on the 13th and 14th of Novem-
ber. The Utah ladies received marked at-
tention and were most active both in com-
mittee work and in the deliberations of the
general assembly. The meetings were in
the Auditorium and were attended by rep-
resentative women from local councils and
organizations throughout the land. 
	A memorial service was held in honor of
the late president, Lillian M. Hollister. The
first session was presided over by the first
vice-president, Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett,
who after these exercises was taken violent-
ly ill and not able to preside at any more
of the meetings, much to the sorrow and
regret of those present. However, the cor-
responding secretary, Mrs. Flo Jamison
Miller, carried the work along and presided
most ably during the remainder of the ses-
sion. 
	Following the adjournment of the council
Miss Jane Addams of Hull House enter-
tained the delegates at luncheon and they
were afterwards shown through that insti-
tution and its different departments were
explained to them. In the city of Chicago
the greatest possible interest is shown in the
welfare of children, and every possible 
means is being taken to preserve life and
give proper care and training to the child.


Many excellent resolutions for the better-
ment of women were passed and splendid
work was outlined for the future.  The
Utah visitors had an enjoyable though stren-
uous time, and returned in good health to
again resume their work at home
						A. W. C.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The next number of the Exponent, the
issue for December, marks the closing of the
year, and the time seems appropriate for a
settlement of accounts. Subscribers will ad-
mit that we have been very lenient in push-
ing collections, and it is with reluctance that
the matter is hinted at now. But important
alterations and improvements in the paper
are in contemplation, for the carrying out
of which it is quite essential that all sub-
scription accounts be settled and all collec-
tions made. Feeling that our patrons will
understand the reasons for this urgency, we
trust they will exert themselves to comply
promptly with the request now made.
	The General Relief Society has been the
recipient of three handsome presents which
add to the adornment of these headquarters.
One is a very beautiful piece of needlework
by Mrs. Rebecca Brown, aged 75, in the
shape of an unfurled flag; the work is quite
remarkable, especially when one considers
the age of the lady. San Juan Stake Re-
lief Society sent a large Navajo rug, the
brightness of whose colors adds to the cheer-
fulness of the rooms. The Pine Grove ward
of Union Stake, Oregon, presents a sofa
pillow prettily done in white and blue. For
all these we are very grateful, and appre-
ciate the thoughtful givers.
	The selected chorus of two hundred
voices from the Tabernacle Choir have
made a most successful and enjoyable trip
to New York and other eastern points, and
return laden with immeasurable honor. The
daily papers followed their progress from
day to day, and it is not necessary to go into
any detail of the trip—only to assert our
own interest in the singers individually and
collectively. That Utah and her people
have been greatly benefited through this
trip is without question, for the world will
better realize how education and the arts are
encouraged here. The fact that the singers
were in New York to participate in the
exercises of the presentation of the silver
service to the battleship Utah was also a 
matter for congratulation; and the recep-
tion tendered the singers by the nation’s
Executive at the White House in Washing-
ton was a marked courtesy not shown to
many. It was also most fitting that on
their return trip they were able to assist in
the dedicatory services of the monument to
Oliver Cowdery, one of the three witnesses
of the Book of Mormon, at Richmond, Mo.
We join heartily in their welcome home.


[Column 1]
	NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	We must now revise our suffrage maps,
and get ready a big new star to be sewn
upon our suffrage flags. Nobody will
grudge the trouble.
	Alborg is the first Danish city where a
woman constable will soon appear in the
streets. She will wear ordinary dress, in-

[Column 2]
stead of uniform, and her special duty will
be to keep a sharp eye on persons of her
own sex.
	Mrs. Beatrice Forbes-Robertson Hale,
with her baby daughter, returned from Eu-
rope recently to take up her lecture work
for equal suffrage in this country. On the
voyage over, Mrs. Hale gave a suffrage ad-
dress that made a deep impression on her
fellow passengers.
	Miss Rogstead, the first woman to repre-
sent a constituency in the Norwegian Parlia-
ment, made her first speech before that body
a few days ago, and it is said that the entire
assembly rose when she began. A New York
paper facetiously remarked that such chiv-
alry was not displayed in the subway.
	Rabbi Ephraim Frisch, of Arkansas, in a
recent address, said: “We cannot have
enough of woman’s work and spirit in any
phase of our endeavors. Woman has be-
come the custodian and champion of our
very most precious possessions—our litera-
ture, our music, our art, our homes and our
children. Why should we fear extending to
her the privilege of voting?”
	The women town councillors are reported
to have won in the recent fight in Reykjavik,
the capital of Iceland. For several days
there was a deadlock in the town council
over the lighting of the city. All the men
members were in favor of electricity while
the women stood solidly for gas, because
they wished to use it for cooking also. Aft-
er considerable hesitation the mayor cast his
vote with the women.
	Vermont suffragists are appealing to busi-
ness men by means of display paid advertise-
ments in the leading newspapers, setting
forth the acknowledged merits of votes for
women as a means for advertising their
State. “Vermont men who love the freedom
which your fathers won for you,” reads
one, “pay your debt by winning freedom
for your daughters. Advertise Vermont by
getting votes for Vermont women!”—The
Woman’s Journal.
	The aptitude of women for vocations hav-
ing to do with fabrics has gained recognition
from one of the most famous textile schools
in the world, that in Grayfield, Germany.
Hitherto only men students have been ad-
mitted, but the bars have been lowered and
in behalf of an American girl, Bessie Ben-
nett, assistant director of the Chicago Art
Institute and curator of the museum. Al-
ready well versed in textiles, she will follow
special courses in the German institute on
invitation of the head of the school.
	Miss Edith Campbell, member-at-large of
the Cincinnati Board of Education, is a
graduate of the Cincinnati University,
where she took her master’s degree, and
also served for a year as instructor in eco-
nomics. She became Director of the
Schmidlapp Fund for Girls in 1908, and a
year later it was enlarged under her direc-
tion into an employment bureau for women
and girls. She has been much interested in
educational matters, the industrial school
for girls, and the Work Certificate Bureau,
conducted by the Board of Education, is un-
der the joint direction of Miss Campbell
and E. N. Clopper, Secretary of the National
Child Labor Commission for the Middle
Western States. She has also been greatly
interested in the Delaware Industrial Home
for Girls, the condition of which aroused


club women all over the country and caused
a personal visit to the place by Governor
Harmon and his wife, with the result that
conditions were much improved. 
	Miss Campbell’s victory gives her a three-
fold distinction. She is the first woman
elected to any public office in Cincinnati,
though several have been candidates before.
She is the first candidate ever elected to
the Board of Education in Cincinnati who
ran as an independent candidate, and she
goes on record as the first woman in the
United States for whom a President of the
United States cast his vote.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FREAKISH DRESS FOE TO SUFFRAGE.
	Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, author and lec-
turer, is quoted as saying:
	“Nothing has done so much harm to suf-
frage in the last fifty years as the way wom-
en have dressed themselves in the last year
or two. They have aroused general con-
tempt and criticism, and have made men say
everywhere that they have neither sense nor
judgment, and so are not fit to be trusted
with the ballot.
	“No woman who enters a great movement
can allow herself the same freedom she en-
joyed, before. She is no longer responsible
merely as an individual. She is the em-
bodiment of the cause she represents.
	“If she is a suffragist whatever silly thing
she does is charged up to suffrage by the
men. Therefore, I am convinced that no
one thing has hurt the suffrage cause so
much as the way women have dressed or un-
dressed in the last few years.
	“Their hats alone have made them the
laughing stock of the country. These ridic-
ulous objects are without excuse in either
shape or trimming, and they are made worse
by the wearing of long hatpins.
	“The most influential women have worn
dresses on the street and in public places in
which a woman of the demi-monde would
not have appeared a few years ago.
	“They are everywhere,” she said. “Al-
most every little town has would-be ‘smart’
women who parade the streets in all the
latest indecent eccentricities of fashion.
	“Of course, these women really form the
smallest proportion compared with the
working woman, the mother of families, and
the woman doing splendid service in
churches and other organizations. But, like
the froth and foam they are, they come to
the top. They show themselves in public
and assume a much larger place than they
really occupy. If they only injured them-
selves it would not be so bad, but they in-
jure every good thing other women try
to do and go a long way to counteract
the magnificent work women have actually
accomplished.”—From Chicago Tribune.


[Column 1]
		SELF-CONTROL.
	The following paper was read before the
Yellowstone Stake Relief Society:

	“Honor and fame from no condition rise,
	Act well your part, there all the honor lies.”

	True greatness is measured by the deeds
done or the good accomplished, not by the
amount of wealth possessed. We are placed
upon the earth to be tried and tested; we are
surrounded by environments of every na-
ture. There are those who are ready to help
us climb, and others who are anxious to pull

[Column 2]
us down. If we stand the test and reach a
standard of honor and usefulness, we must
learn to govern the impulses and passions of
human nature. We have many examples in
men and women who have attained success
and made the world better for their having
lived in it. I have in mind now a young
man who took for his ideals the great heroes
in history, and when problems confronted
him he would ask himself, what would these
great men have done under the same cir-
cumstances; consequently his life was a
great success, for,

	“Lives of great men all remind us
		We can make our lives sublime, 
	And departing, leave behind us,
		Footprints on the sands of time.”

	To make our lives successful and lay a
firm foundation for true greatness we must
be master of ourselves, for “He that is slow
to anger is better than the mighty: and he
that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a
city.”
	Then let us as individuals and as parents
strive to uphold the good, and discard every-
thing from our dispositions and our homes
that is not pure and clean and sweet. Let
us instill into the lives of our children those
three factors that go to make up a grand and
noble character—a knowledge of right and
wrong; an awakened strong conscience, and
a developed dominating will, for these con-
stitute self-control. A child to be self gov-
erning must learn to use its own reasoning
powers. Too often we decide for our chil-
dren. Teach them to grow up with the
power to discern right from wrong, and have
power to trample underfoot that which an
experienced conscience tells them is wrong.
Teach a child that it is possible to control
every appetite on impulse of its nature.
Teach it to say, “I can and I will obey the
laws of God and be of some use in the
world.” Picture to it the awfulness of doing
wrong and the misery caused through com-
mitting sin, then picture the joy, peace, and
contentment experienced through overcom-
ing evil and pleasing its Heavenly Father
and obeying its parents.
	If we force a child to do right because
we are stronger and can inflict pain upon its
little body, we only weaken its will power
or force it into rebellion. It is much bet-
ter never to punish in anger, but to govern
by love, and give a reason for the request
made. The child should be taught to do
right for right’s sake and not through fear
of punishment or ridicule. Punishment
should be resorted to only after everything
else has failed. Often a little patience and
perhaps a story will cause a child to choose
the right, when scolding or force would
cause him to submit but would implant a
rebellious spirit and a determination to have
his own way as soon as he is big enough to
resist compulsions.
	Will is the most important agent in the
formation of what we call character. A de-
veloped will is at the foundation of one’s
self mastery in every domain. A strong
will enables one to choose the right, and
every such choice strengthens character.
Stronger than heredity or environment, (in
determining a person’s destiny) is a man’s
own will.
	Surround the child with everything at
your command that will add to his strength
and enlarge his confidence in ultimate suc-
cess. The value of self-control is known
only to those who have mastered self. Happy
indeed is the man or woman, boy or girl,

[Column 3]
who has the power to resist temptation and
say yes or no at the right time. In the ex-
ercising of any of the virtues, such as po-
liteness, courtesy, patience, or in the faithful
performance of duty, self-control is an es-
sential. Any mother in going about her du-
ties realizes how necessary it is for the
peace, happiness, and contentment of all in
the home, that she be master of self. And
by so doing she would ever be an example
to her family and a light to their footsteps.

	“School thy feelings O my brother.
		Train thy warm, impulsive soul,
	Do not its emotions smother, 
		But Jet wisdom’s voice control.
	School thy feelings, there is power
		In the cool collected mind,
	Passion shatters reason’s tower,
		Makes the clearest vision blind.”
				JANETTE C. MILLER,
				ETHEL M. HUMPHREYS.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		CARBON STAKE.
	The Carbon Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held at Price, August 4, 1911.
President Pauline Pace presiding.
	After opening exercises and roll call,
showing eighteen officers present, remarks
by President Pace, reporting the stake work
and financial condition. The wards were
reported as being in good order. Sister
Edna Davis of the General Board related
the legend of Peter and John, and gave ex-
cellent instructions. Sister Susa Y. Gates,
also of the General Board, explained the
qualifications of members of the Relief So-
ciety. Dwelt upon the storing grain and
making libraries in the Relief Society. She
advised all members to become subscribers
of the Exponent.
	Bishop Albert Bryner endorsed what had
been said, as did also First Counselor Oliver
J. Harmon. 
	At the afternoon session, Sister Eliza
Horsely made a few remarks encouraging
the sisters to attend to their duties; and
narrating some of her missionary experi-
ences. A solo was rendered by Sister Nellie
Wilson.
	Sister Edna Davis spoke of how faith can
be increased in the home; and Sister Susa
Y. Gates said the Relief Society of Emery
Stake was the first to contribute to the
Woman’s Building at Salt Lake City. She
spoke of the mother’s influence in the home,
and instructed the sisters how to dress on
coming to the Temple.
	Elder Arthur W. Horsely spoke of the
good work the Society was performing, also
endorsing the remarks of the preceding
speakers.
	President Pauline Pace made closing re-
marks, and after singing “The Spirit of
God,” benediction was offered by Elder
Ernest S. Horsely.
				MARY E. PACE,
					Acting Secretary.
		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The Relief Society annual conference of
Yellowstone Stake was held July 20, 1911.
There were present President Daniel G. Mil-
ler; Bishop A. D. Miller, of the St. An-
thony ward; the bishops of Ashton and
Farnum, two high councilors, and Sisters
Sarah J. Cannon and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth of the General Board, also eight Re-
lief Society Stake officers.


[Column 1]
	President Julia E. Miller welcomed the
sisters to the conference after which the
following Societies were reported as being
in a thriving condition: Marysville, Ash-
ton and Parker. Sister Miller reported the
Societies as being in good working order,
the stake officers as being united and all
keeping the Word of Wisdom. 
	Stake Treasurer Rhoda A. Mason gave
a financial report, after which Sister Vera
C. Sharp of St. Anthony rendered a vocal
solo. Sister Farnsworth spoke for some
time on the beauties of Relief Society work,
and gave many other good instructions; and
Sister Cannon spoke on the duties of the Re-
lief Society teacher, also on the need of be-
ing charitable to all. 
	Bishop Cunningham of the Ashton ward
told of the help the Relief Society is to the
Bishopric. 
	The afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.
with President Julia E. Miller presiding. 
	The following societies were reported: 
Farnum, Egin, and Wilford; and words of
welcome were given by First Counselor
Mary J. Miller, followed by a duet from
Marysville ward. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon spoke on the stor-
ing of grain; suggested that the Relief So-
ciety should have a reserve fund for emer-
gencies. 
	Sister Farnsworth spoke of genealogical
work; told of the evils of the saloon and
gave other good instructions. 
	Brother C. E. Lloyd of the High Council
encouraged the sisters in the good work. 
President D. G. Miller spoke of the grand
work of the mothers. He said each mem-
ber of the Relief Society should be a mis-
sionary. 
	A paper on Mother’s Class Work was read
by Sister Ethel M. Humphreys. 
	After a duet by two little girls of Marys-
ville ward, benediction was pronounced by
Bishop A. D. Miller. 
				MARY E. BROWER. 
								Secretary. 

		ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 
	A Relief Society conference of the St. 
Joseph Stake was held at Thatcher, October
1 in the meeting house. A business ses-
sion convened at 10 a. m., at which a good
representation of the officers from all the
branches was present. A number of the
bishops and brethren were in attendance, al-
so Sister Elizabeth McCune of the General
Board, President Elizabeth W. Layton, all
of the St. Joseph Stake Board, and about
thirty-eight officers, which is a good show-
ing. 
	First Counselor Selena Phillips, who was
in charge, made pleasant and congratulatory
remarks at the opening and was followed by
reports from different local presidents; Pima
society by Sena Norton; Matthews ward by
Mary Mack; Eden by Carrie Blair; Emery
by Olive Windsor; Graham by Hattie Skin-
ner; Layton by Louise Welker; Central by
Diantha Smith; Thatcher by Adelia Tyler,
all in a very fair condition. 
	President E. W. Layton gave a detailed
report of the Relief Society of the Stake. 
Said that all the wards had been visited, and
been encouraged in their work. All were up
in their lessons except in the Doctrine and
Covenants, sections of which had been rec-
ommended for the work meetings. Those
societies that have taken hold of this study,

[Column 2]
testify of the great worth it has been to
them. Believed that much good was being
accomplished in the way of donations and
in assistance to the poor. 
	Sister McCune spoke of the origin of the
Relief Society, its aim and object as ex-
plained by the Prophet Joseph Smith. We
must each do our duty if we become identi-
fied with this great work, and not allow a
few to do it all. Realized that the officers
had great responsibilities and perhaps they
were not always appreciated, but we must
seek to know our duty and then ask God to
help us to perform it, no matter how difficult
it may seem. We must be kind to the poor
and aid them, for thereby we gain a bless-
ing; diligent in holding our meetings even
if only a few are present. Encouraged the
storing of wheat and not keep our wheat
money, as it would be useless should a fam-
ine come. Urged the mothers to see that
their young people go to the Temple to be
married, that their children might be born
under the covenant; recommended economy
and simplicity in our Temple clothes. 
	At 2 p. m. the Relief Society conference
was held in connection with the ward meet-
ing. The house was filled, many coming
from other wards. The Thatcher choir was
in attendance, and rendered some beautiful
anthems. 
	After the administration of the sacrament,
the time was given over to the sisters and
President Elizabeth W. Layton presided,
and introduced Sister Elizabeth McCune,
who occupied most of the remaining time
and to good advantage. She began by de-
scribing the scenes of some of her travels
and incidents connected therewith. Spoke
on subjects of importance to Latter-day
Saints, more especially of Temple work for
the dead. Urged that families organize, for
the purpose of raising a fund to obtain their
genealogy which in some instances is very
difficult. The work of the Lord must be
done in order and holiness, and we can do
it only by seeking His assistance each hour
of the day. 
	Conference adjourned for six months,
after the anthem, “Hark, what mean those
holy voices,” with benediction by President
C. M. Layton.
			JOSEPHINE KIMBALL,
							Secretary. 

	PORTLAND BRANCH, OREGON. 
	A special meeting of the Portland Branch
Relief Society was held September 27, 1911. 
Sister Elizabeth Crismon of the General
Board of Relief Societies was in attendance. 
There were present of the local society three
officers and ten members, as was also H. A. 
Benson, secretary of the N. W. States Mis-
sion. 
	President Emma Holling called meeting
to order and presided. After opening ex-
ercises, roll call and reading of minutes,
Sister Crismon addressed the meeting. She
spoke of some of the things being done by
the society for the betterment of conditions
at home, especially for those of our sex who
are laboring in stores, factories, etc. She
urged the sisters to set proper examples
before the younger girls that they may be
kept in the path of purity. She thought also
that the work of the Relief Society should
extend farther than to relieve mere physical
want and that the sisters should minister to
the people and encourage them in spiritual

[Column 3]
things as well as in temporal, and urged the
sisters to cultivate right thinking as well as
right living in order to get the best out of
life. 
	Sister Oberry spoke a short time and bore
her testimony to the divinity of the mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the founder
of the Relief Society. 
	Elder H. A. Benson spoke for a short time
encouraging the sisters in their work and
calling attention to some of the conditions
that have to be met and dealt with in the
uplift of humanity. 
	Sister Catherine Woodbury, one of our
lady missionaries who had been called to go
to Spokane, Wash., and labor, also spoke
for a short time and bore her testimony to
the work. 
				H. A. BENSON,
					Secretary Pro tem. 

			UINTAH STAKE. 
	The annual Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Uintah Stake was held in the Stake
tabernacle, August 9, 1911, beginning at
10 a. m. President Nancy A. Colton pre-
siding. 
	There were present of the priesthood:
Stake Counselor Ernest Eaton; three High
Councilors; one Bishop; four Elders, and
three visiting brethren; also Sisters Susa
Young Gates and Edna May Davis of the
General Board. 
	President Colton welcomed the brethren
and sisters, and also reported the Society
in good condition. Mrs. Fannie E. Stew-
art, supervisor of mother’s work, reported
the work and read the outlines of last year’s
also this year’s work.
	Sister Edna May Davis related some of
the benefits received from prayer when we
pray in faith, doubting nothing; spoke of
some of her travels, and of the first princi-
ples of the gospel. Referring to our dress,
she said we should not follow the fashions
of the world, and in conclusion urged each
and every one to try and keep the command-
ments of the Lord. 
	A recitation was given by Miss Mary
Merkley. 
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates compared the
belief of the Latter-day Saints with other
denominations; advised the mothers to ed-
ucate their children in the gospel, for “train
a child in the way it should go it will not
depart from it.” She spoke some of her
travels in distant lands as well as at home. 
	President Colton made a few closing re-
marks in regard to the duties of the Relief
Society. 
	An officers’ meeting was held between ses-
sions, at which President Keturah Merkley
reported Vernal First ward; and President
Hannah B. Odekirk reported Vernal Sec-
ond ward Society in good condition. 
	Miss Edna May Davis gave instructions
as to storing grain and of the clothes to be
worn in the Temple of the Lord. 
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates said President
Emmeline B. Wells wished all the Relief
Societies to have a good library, and sug-
gested a way to start one. She advised the
teachers in regard to their duties especially
in regard to prayer in time of trouble and
when they go out teaching the people. 
	At the afternoon session Mrs. Susa
Young Gates was the first speaker. She
said the gospel is nothing new, it is preached
just the same today as it was in the rise of


[Column 1]
the Church. She spoke of her travels in
England, Switzerland, Germany, France, the
islands of the sea, from north to south, and
east to west. She had raised her voice in all
of these in defense of the gospel of Jesus
Christ. She advised mothers to teach their
children honor and respect for the priest-
hood, and spoke at some length on self-
destruction. She also spoke of the resur-
rection and baptism for the dead.
	A song was given by a group of little
girls from Maeser, accompanied by Miss
Meda Carpenter.
	Stake President Don B. Colton spoke of
the firmness of children’s views as to the
gospel when they have been taught from
childhood. He urged the sisters to be com-
panions to their children, to teach them the
gospel and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ,
also unity in the home.
	A recitation was given by Miss Zara
Colton.
	Miss Edna May Davis spoke on obedience
and urged all to do their duty.
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham encouraged
every one present to live up to what we
have heard, and asked the mothers to see
that their children have proper books, that
they may get their lessons for the different
organizations in the Church. She thanked
the sisters of Vernal First and Second ward
for their hospitality, and President Nancy
A. Colton thanked all for their attendance.
	After a song by Sisters Mina Pack and
Bathera Young, accompanied by Miss Oral
Wilson, Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett in behalf of
the Stake Board thanked the visiting sis-
ters from Salt Lake City for their presence,
and the benediction was given by Elder
Sterling D. Colton.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
							Secretary.

		BIG HORN STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
the Big Horn Stake of Zion, held at Byron
meeting house, August 20, 1911. President
Mary L. Welch presiding; meeting opened
at 10 a. m., with usual exercises.
	Minutes of forenoon session of our last
conference were read and accepted. As it
was Sunday, President Mary L. Welch felt
to thank the Bishop for the use of the meet-
ing house. Reports of the different associ-
ations were given. Millie Egan gave a
piano selection. Sisters Phebe Young Beatie
and Sarah McLelland of the General Board
were introduced, and spoke as follows:
	Sister Beatie was pleased to see so many
young women at work in our Society, felt
we should aim to have our young busy, also
spoke of the duties of the teachers of the
Society, said they were the backbone, en-
couraged us to be cheerful and learn to
look pleasant, especially around the sick, re-
lated a circumstance in her own life, felt
that Relief Society sisters should be united
and love one another, should be charitable,
patient, and kind and care for our young
girls, both ours and our neighbors’. She also
spoke in regard to nurse work, she thought
our young girls ought to be taught in this
course.
	Sister McLelland stated that this was the
largest audience she had met in the Society
for several months. She related instances
of some of our outside friends in regards
to the Book of Mormon, also said that our
missionary boys felt to encourage the moth-
ers to aid them in their work, related a
“story,” to the little folks showing what a
mother’s influence has over the children in

[Column 2]
early childhood, felt that the Lord prepared
us for our work if we only live for it.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Benediction, Stake Counselor R. C. May.
	Afternoon session.—Was presided over
by President Mary L. Welch. After the
usual opening exercises, President Wm. C.
Partridge spoke for a few moments.
	Retta Porter read an essay on, “Benevo-
lence.”
	Vocal solo, Pattie Hatch.
	Sister McLelland spoke, saying she was
very much pleased with the possibilities for
our young folks in this country. She com-
pared the lives of young men and women in
the cities to those in the country, and on the
farm, and told of the missionary work be-
ing done in Salt Lake City for the young
girls. She spoke also of the wickedness that
is going on and felt that Relief Society sis-
ters should reach out a helping hand and
aid all those they could. She related her
missionary experiences and visit to Nauvoo,
she saw the house of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and many other prominent places.
Sister Beatie spoke in regards to our li-
braries which President Emmeline B. Wells
wished each association to have.
	President Mary L. Welch gave notice of
a Relief Society meeting to be held at Cow-
ley, Monday the 21st, and wished to thank
all those who had helped to make this con-
ference a success.
	Benediction by Relief Society Stake
Counselor, Sarah Partridge.
					LIBBIE SNELL,
					Acting Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Following are some timely and well-
proven recipes:
	CRANBERRIES.—3 cups berries, 1 1/4 cups
sugar, 1 cup boiling water, cover and boil
ten minutes; this is not strained; jells nice-
ly, and keeps the bright color.
	FILLING FOR SQUASH PIE.—Two cups
of squash, one cup milk, 1/4 cup sugar, 1/2
teaspoonful salt, 1/4 teaspoonful cinnamon,
1/4 teaspoonful ginger, a little nutmeg and
2 eggs. This quantity makes two pies.
	DECORATIONS—In place of flowers, which
in winter time are expensive and hard to
obtain, a basket of fruit with ivy leaves
entwined makes a pretty and inexpensive
table decoration.
	MAHOGANY CAKE.—1/2 cup chocolate
grated and 1/2 cup milk boiled together, 1/2
cup of butter, 1 1/2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour,
3 eggs, 1/2 cup sweet milk, 1 level teaspoon-
ful of soda, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Bake 30
minutes in moderate oven.
	ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.—1 lb. brown
sugar, 1 lb. suet, 1 lb. bread crumbs, 1 lb.
raisins, 1 lb. currants, 1/4 lb. citron and lem-
on peel, 1/2 oz. each mace, cinnamon and
allspice, 1 nutmeg, 9 eggs (beat the yolks
and whites separately), 1 cup milk, enough
flour to make a nice stiff batter. Boil in
mould or bag from eight to ten hours the
first day, and four to six hours the day of
using.


[Column 1]
		OBITUARY NOTES.
		Mary Ann Whittle.
	At Richmond on the 5th of June, death called
Sister Mary Ann Whittle, one of the dear
faithful women of the Church. Sister Whittle
was a great sufferer from rheumatism and for

[Column 2]
many years past quite helpless. She bore her
affliction with great patience and gentleness of
spirit and fully appreciated the tender care of
her loving children. Sister Whittle was born
at Springfield, Ill., April 1st, 1839, came to
Utah with her parents in 1848, and has ever
been a faithful and consistent Latter-day
Saint.
		Christiana S. Rasmussen.
	Christiana Sorensen Rasmussen, secretary
of the Relief Society of Lyman, Utah, died on
the 29th of August.
	Sister Rasmussen was one of those faithful,
unselfish women, whose loss will long be great-
ly felt, for she was full of kindness and devo-
tion to all around her. She was a most un-
tiring and efficient laborer in the Relief So-
ciety, was a member of the ward choir and
a worker in the Sunday School. Sister Ras-
mussen was one of those devoted Saints who
pushed a hand-cart across the plains to join her
fate with the Latter-day Saints, and though
only seventeen years old when she came to
these valleys, was rich in testimony and faith.
She was a loving and tender wife and mother
and when left a widow at an early age proved
her strength of character in the manner in
which she reared her family of three boys to a
true and honest manhood.
	The memory of her faithfulness and integ-
rity are an inspiration and comfort to her fam-
ly.
			Mary Pratt Young.
	When the spirit of Mary Pratt Young an-
swered the final summons, one of Zion’s choic-
est daughters was called home.
	A woman of rare qualities of heart and mind
whose very presence was an inspiration and
whose words were always full of comfort, and
bespoke the thoughtful mind, Sister Mary
bore life’s trials gently and bravely and re-
joiced in all the good things that came to her
or hers. There could not be a more tender
mother, sister, friend or neighbor, and those
who knew her best loved her most. When the
Granite Stake Relief Society was organized Sis-
ter Young was made first counselor to Sister
Emma Woodruff, and filled that position with
an earnestness of effort not to be excelled.
	To quote Sister Woodruff’s own words we
can say, “There is nothing too good to be said
of her and we shall sadly miss her in our
work, and in our lives.”
	Mary Pratt Young was the daughter of Par-
ley P. Pratt and his wife Mary, and possessed
both the intellectual attainments and refine-
ment of manner so characteristic of her par-
ents. She died October 25th, 1911.
		Margaret H. Clark.
	Sister Margaret H. Clark, president of the
Panguitch Ward Relief Society, departed this
life May 20, 1911. Sister Clark was the daugh-
ter of James and Margaret Houston, and was
born Dec. 1, 1855 in Salt Lake City, Utah.
“Aunt Maggie,” as she was lovingly called,
was an exceptionally fine woman. As a wife
and mother she could scarcely be excelled,
being of a sweet, lovable disposition, firm and
steadfast in adhering to principle, and a wom-
an of great faith. Her home was ever a
clean, beautiful place of rest and comfort,
where friends and strangers alike found a
welcome. She was the wife of Riley G. Clark
who preceded her to the other side. They had
eleven children, seven of whom survive them.
	Sister Clark has held many positions of
trust and honor. She was the first president
of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Panguitch Ward, and
later a Stake officer in the Mutual. She acted
as a counselor in the Relief Society for many
years, and had acted as president but a few
months when called away by death; but dur-
ing those few months she was successful in
accomplishing a great work and made im-
provements which will be lasting. She will be
greatly missed by those with whom she was
associated.
	The following beautiful words, written by
Sister Emmeline B. Wells, apply most aptly
to our beloved president:
A saintly face and a great mother-heart,
So rich in grace and charity thou art.
That evermore our reverence shall be
A loving tribute to thy memory.
				MARIA L. SARGENT.
				MARIA L. HEYWOOD,
				MINNIE B. GARDNER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 40.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, HOLIDAY NUMBER, 1911					No. 5.


CONTENTS.
We All Loved Her.....................................
	....................L. Lula Greene Richards	43
Opportunity...................Amanda M. Done	35
Clara Barton is 90......................................	37
A Pioneer Woman Passed Away................	38
Another Ward President Passes On...........	38
The Business of Home Making...A. W. C.	39
Notes About Women.................................	40
Notes and News....................................... 34, 35
Household Hints........................................	38
R. S. Reports—Benson Stake....................	40
	Liberty Stake......................................	40
	Oneida Stake......................................	40
Editorial:
	Christmas Thoughts...........................	36
	The Rose............................................	36
	Notice.................................................	36
	History of the Y. L. M. I. A................	37
	Literary Notes.....................................	37
	Mme. Mountfort in Pasadena.............	37
Obituary......................................................	38
In Memoriam..............................................	38
Poetry:
	December............................................	33
	A Christmas Quest..............................
		.....................Alice Merrill Horne	33
	A Midnight Reverie...............E. B. W.	35
	Never Alone...............Mary A. Freeze	35


[Column 1]
	A CHRISTMAS QUEST. 
			A Wish.
				I.
Be merry and glad this Christmas tide,
And Christmas cheer, may it be world-wide!
			Greeting.
				I.
Far from the Christmas chimes of lofty church, 
And glow of Christmas candles flick’ring
	bright,
I, shelter’d ’neath my dizzy mountain porch, 
Far up the rock-ribbed, solitary height, 
Greet ye, who light the candles, Christmas
	Night.
				II.
Safe-cabin’d, marshall’d round with pine and 
fir, 
Agreen ’neath fleecy drapes of light 
And bare-limb’d quaking aspens white—
Bare maples—bushes bare,—
Bend ’neath the weight of winter—
But winter’s wither’d leaves no longer wear.
				III.
I, never bold, in truth a coward I, 
Though all alone in this wild home 
Send through my fire-lit pane a signal light, 
Greeting for a prosp’rous New Year with 
Christmas love bedight, 
A star to glimmer ’cross the hills, 
A star to watchers in the hollow. 
A star no lumb’ring foot may follow, 
For snow on snow hath locked in frost 
Each living thing! The Earth itself seems lost.
				IV.
E’en the wild willow fring’d creek,
From where it makes its mountain leap
In vain I seek; 
No track zigzags ’tween oaks athwart the steep 
And odd quaint line of purpling birch, 
And e’en the brave snow birds desert their
	perch.

[Column 2]
				V.
Above yon rythmic hills’ snow-quilted beds 
Proud wearers of the ermine lift their heads; 
Above, below, each way the same—
Picture on picture fills my window pane. 
A picture new to make I need but move, 
And need not move to look forth on a world 
of love. 
			A Quest. 
				I. 
A recluse I, in nature’s hermitage,
For lo these years, 
In quest of life and its divinest fluid 
Youth, hath built a temple in “The Groves.”
	A Druid, 
Lo, in centuries far back in Lethe’s stream,
Worship’d among the stones and trees. 
I wonder if he, too, did dream?
				II.
A wand’rer I, among the wilds 
Of lonely hills, 
Always my quest alone I take 
For her dear sake. 
(Unlike the Spanish cavalier who sought 
Perpetual youth and found it not), 
For lo, in truth I have it found, 
My impulse quicken’d, my slow step renew’d,
I find it in the lark’s first song at morn, 
And where the restless ancient lake is born 
Amid the ferns—the maidenhair and mosses, 
Where dripping water moldeth a cool cup 
For him who climbs and crosses 
The divide, or him who seeks 
To reach the unseal’d peaks
And looks into the heavens,
And back to nature turns for drink.
				III.
Yea, I have found it ’mong the roots of the 
	young cedar, 
The hemlock, fir, mahogany and ash, 
That I for my retreat do gather 
To there transplant, and in the crash 
Of ancient trees that feed my winter fire.
				IV.
It is yonder ’mong the highest sandstone rocks, 
So hath withstood the quaking of ages’ shocks,
For there the vision flieth o’er chain on chain
To where the Inland Sea frets the white salted
	plain.
				V.
I know it lingers where I gather 
Grass and moss and all that’s fleeting,
When the cold comes creeping, stealing 
Berries bright and leaves that wither, 
But retain some tint, some feeling, 
Some suggestion of the Harvest, 
Just a thought, a hope of Summer.
				VI.
I find it in my bearskin coat and rug, 
High shoes and cap from mountain lion’s hide,
Fashioned with wit; 
I find it in the fire beside which now I sit 
And laugh at cold, 
In the pine nuts popping in the ashes, 
While pine burrs from the fire flashes,
A haunch of red-fleshed venison 
Drips, sizzling, o’er the iron pan, 
Beside the smoking mug!
			Alone.
				I.
But banished. They could not share 
My pilgrimage, a danger unto them, 
So must I bear this quest of life alone. 
I wonder do they live, I know they think of me, 
If yet they do abide at the old home. 
But I must tear my thoughts away from there, 
And dry these tears 
All else were madness. 
I must yet abide a few more years, 
Ere I may seek them who now wait my com-
	ing.
[Column 3]
				II.
I wonder if he doth repent the wrong.
I wonder if that sneering ape—ah! hush!
’Tis Christmas night—the hour grows late, 
I must look out: My fate
Is there in the rising wind. I hear 
My fire-lit pane the cold drifts brush. 
Fresh, down the lonely mountain, deer trails 
Show dimly through light scint’ling snow veils.
				III.
Ah, thou art safe; my snow shoes could not
	track
The young doe from her proud mate tonight. 
But on the wind a song floats back. 
Rejoice! lift up thine eyes! 
Look through the veils into the skies, 
In these snow veils, and fresh snow trails 
Shroud ye thy sadness, 
Thy snow shoes give to the Spirit of Gladness, 
And hope let wing to the peaks its flight 
But bury thy sorrow and woe tonight! 
		A Christmas Grave. 
				I. 
Bury them low 
In a cold grave of snow, 
For there’s aye good luck in a Christmas
	white.
Then hail Good Luck this Christmas night!!
				II.
Bury so low 
All thy sorrow and woe, 
Bury thy woe where the wild winds mow
O’er chilly fields of shivering snow, 
Icy, fleecy, shimmering stars
’Neath the palest moonbeams bars, 
Whirling they go,
Swirling aglow, 
Never to linger, 
Forever to wander, 
Never to grow—
E’en in Spring not to grow–
This day Christmas love only may grow
				III.
Bury so low 
All thy trouble and woe; 
Bury them low, 
With the sneers, 
With the jeers, 
And all the dark fears 
Of thy past fleeting years, 
Of the fast fleeting years; 
Ay, with the tears, 
The heartaches,
The heartbreaks, 
The sears, 
Hiding deep wounds; 
Make these snow drifts, 
These cold rifts 
Their biers.
For the North Wind can chill, 
The Ice King can kill 
Thy troubles, thy woe, 
This glad Christmas, I trow.
				IV.
Yes, lay them low, 
All thine anguish and woe; 
Forget thou hadst ever a foe; 
Forget that he ever was faithless; construe 
The coward as one who was weak, not untrue, 
But think on the one who has always loved you 
Aye foster the truth that is new!
				V. 
Bury the woe, 
Thine anguish lay low, 
Lay it low, make a head-cross of snow; 
Icy graves of white strow 
Deck with colors that glow: 
With the roseberries red, 
Christmas holly-beads, spread 
With green ivy 
And wreaths of white mistletoe.
Kneeling,
Sighing
A requiem low,
O’er the new grave of thy sorrow and woe. 
From its ashes, thou, mortal must grow, 
And only from ashes can the soul ever grow.


The Star.
		“Lo, I am with you always.”
				I.
From ages afar,
A mystical star
Lights my house,
Steers my course.
As the star-guided wise men
Laid gifts in the manger
Have I seen a star,
And my gift would bestow.
And lo, hear the choir,
That sang, to the Shepherds
In dark Bethlehem,
Singing, “Glory to God
And Peace to ye men!
				II.
“Lo, the crucified Christ,
Crucified not in vain,
The Redeemer, the Savior
Whose message hath glimmer'd,
Whose radiance hath shimmer’d
Adown the long chain
Of time,
That ye hear in the carol
And in the church chime,
Bringing peace to ye men.
Him receive ye again.”
			The Promise.
				I.
And far o’er the chorus of angels
My Savior
I hear:
“Lo! on the wing
Of love
I healing bring
To thee.
Be thou made whole.
Thy soul
Is known to me;
Thy desires
I understand,
Thou art no stranger,
My younger brother,
Call thou my name,
And I shall answer.
This key
I give to thee
To be thine forevermore.
A cross I bore
Greater than thou doth bear;
Yea, through Death’s portal
My Father sent me,
To sorrow lent me,
That thou mightst die to live
Immortal.”
Then, this glad Christmas time,
Lo! I open my soul
To enshrine
The DIVINE!!!
				—Alice Merrill Horne.


DECEMBER.
“That day is best wherein we give
	A thought to others’ sorrows:
Forgetting self, we learn to live,
And blessings born of kindly deeds
	Make golden our tomorrows.”
						—Selected


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WE ALL LOVED HER.
	[Dear Aunt Em:—This sketch was lost
for about three years, and has just come to
light again. It is offered to the Exponent
now with the thought that many readers
will appreciate the beautiful life lessons
given in its portrayal of a fine and noble
character. It was written for and read at
the funeral of Sister Elizabeth O. Decker,
which was held in Salt Lake City, Dec. 13,
her death having occurred Dec. 8, 1908.
Salt Lake City, Dec. 9, 1911.	L. L. G. R.]
			A TRIBUTE.
	The sister workers of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple highly esteem the privilege of contrib-
uting a few minor jewels and modest blos-
soms to the beautiful garland being formed
of thought-gems and flowers of affection
as a parting tribute to the memory of “Aunt
Lizzie Decker.”
	By this name she has been familiarly
called of late years by her near friends.

[Column 2]
Most of us have known her as a true and
noble woman long before we became asso-
ciate workers in the Temple. Some of us
remember her even as a girl, when she was
simply Lizzie Ogden. And such a warm-
hearted, trusting, lovable girl as she was, is
not likely ever to be forgotten.
	Later, as a wife and mother, her trueness
and fidelity never was, never could be sur-
passed by any woman in mortality. As a
consistent, conscientious Latter-day Saint,
in any position which fell to her lot, (and
she filled a number, in Relief Society, Sun-
day School and other Church works) Aunt
Lizzie’s example, both in word and action,
stands second to none.
	Brief reference may here be appropriate-
ly made to a testimony borne by her in one
of the fast meetings which she so much ap-
preciated and loved. The subject of tithe
paying was being discussed by the volun-
tary speakers in the meeting, when Aunt
Lizzie arose and told a pathetic little story
of how she once proved the Lord’s promises
in that regard to be true and worthy to be
trusted. The story amounted to this: To-
ward the close of the year, she had money
on hand, saved up for her year’s tithing.
But a strong temptation came to her not to
pay it into the Lord’s house then, but to use
it for much needed clothing, food and fuel
for the comfort of her dear children. For
some days she weighed the matter carefully,
turning it over and over in her mind, when
a new and unexpected hardship fell upon
her, intended, it seemed, to make her yield,
if possible, to the tempter’s persuasions not
to do her duty by paying her honest tithing.
The parties of whom she was renting the
home she occupied came and told her she
would have to move out, as the place was to
be sold. That appeared to cap the climax!
	To hunt new quarters and move at that
inclement season of the year, besides the in-
convenience and positive distress it must
occasion her and her children, meant loss of
time, days in which she could not be earn-
ing anything, and unlooked-for expenses
which she would have to meet. How could
she pay the little money she had for tithing
now? Once more the subject was being re-
volved in her mind, she examined it critical-
ly from all points, and fortunately her final
gaze rested upon the right side. She set-
tled the matter by asking and answering
these questions within herself:
	Who had provided for her and her chil-
dren during the past year? Who had
opened up her way and brought her oppor-
tunities by which she had earned the money
she had received, a tenth only of which she
had reserved to be given as an acknowledg-
ment of what had been granted to her?
Who, as an indulgent and loving Parent,
would be grieved if she, as a favored daugh-
ter, manifested a lack of faith and trust in
Him by selfishly withholding the little He
required her to return to Him, simply as a
bond of union, mutual interests and good-
fellowship between them?
	The one answer to these questions loomed
up bright in Aunt Lizzie’s mind. She knew
now where to look, whom to trust, what to
do.
	Rejoicing with gratitude that no greater
calamity had been permitted to fall upon
her notwithstanding her tardiness in yield-
ing obedience to a law of the Lord, she has-
tened to the proper place and paid her tith-
ing with a prayer in her heart that her
Father would accept it, and forgive her

[Column 3]
slothfulness. When she returned home, aft-
er settling her tithing, her children told her
their father’s brother-in-law, Uncle Fera-
morz Little, had sent word that he wanted
to see her. She answered at once the re-
quest of her friend and brother, Feramorz,
and went to see him. A friend and brother
indeed he proved to her at that time, one
that she knew the Lord raised up to help
her.
	“Uncle Fera” had heard of the sale to be
made of the property she occupied, and he
offered to advance the money for its pur-
chase as a loan for her and her children, al-
lowing them the privilege of paying him for
it when and as they might be able and de-
sirous of doing. The purchase was made,
and the blessings following it enabled Aunt
Lizzie and her children to pay Uncle Fera
every dollar of his money, and a just inter-
est on it, before the time spoken of in their
agreement had expired.
	A short time after Aunt Lizzie bore this
testimony in fast meeting, President George
Q. Cannon, who heard it, referred to it in a
council of some of the brethren, as one of
the most interesting and convincing testi-
monies in favor of tithe paying that he ever
heard given either by man or woman. One
of the brethren who was present when this
statement was made by President Cannon,
feeling it to be something his wife would ap-
preciate, told it to her. The wife in turn,
by way of encouragement and helpfulness,
repeated it to Aunt Lizzie.
	“Oh, I am so thankful to hear that!” was
Aunt Lizzie’s humble and grateful response.
“I have been so worried about that talk, for
fear I made it too lengthy.”
	It was at another of those dearly cher-
shed meetings, only last Sabbath, that we,
her sister workers in the Temple, last saw
and conversed with her; as, in her daugh-
ter’s arms, she passed suddenly and peace-
fully to her last, long sleep on Tuesday
morning. But we all have pleasant mem-
ories of kind and gentle words which she
spoke to us last Sunday. “How nice your
hat looks, you always wear becoming
things!” she said to one. To another, “Your
hair is so beautiful, and you’ve done it so
prettily!” These and kindred expressions
were her sweetly cherished, last goodbyes to
us, though we knew it not. When one of
us gave her a tender little embrace and
said fervently, “Bless you, Aunt Lizzie!”
from her ready, responsive heart came the
appreciative reply, “Oh! I do you feel that
way toward me? Do you really love me?
I am so glad! I would rather have love
from my friends than anything else they
could give me.”
	Dear Aunt Lizzie! She held rightful pos-
session of what she most prized.
	We all loved her!
				L. LULA GREENE RICHARDS.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	All the New Jersey suffrage organiza-
tions will unite to open permanent head-
quarters in Newark. They will use for this
the money cleared by Mrs. Pankhurst’s lec-
ture, about $700.
	The Prime Minister of Austria has as-
sured a deputation of women from Bo-
hemia and Southern Austria that he thor-
oughly believes in the principle of woman
suffrage, and will use his influence in its
behalf.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MIDNIGHT REVERIE.
The hour was late; I sat alone,
	The hush of silence in the air;
Around my room were shadows thrown
	In brilliant lights, exceeding fair,
And strong emotions filled my soul,
	A retrospect on which I gaze
Like music’s power beyond control,
	Transfixed I sat as in a maze.
The years flew back, I was a child,
	I saw my mother’s smiling face,
And heard her voice in accents mild,
	And watched her movements full of grace.
The children playing round the hearth,
	The pine knots blazing high and bright,
And all the melody of mirth
	Resounding with the old delight.
The kettle swinging on the crane;
	And yet how far away it seems.
Sleigh bells are ringing in the lane;
	Dear me! how vivid are my dreams.
Why should such reveries be mine
	As I sit musing by the fire?
Around my heart-strings intertwine
	The joys that were my heart’s desire.
And looking backward o’er the years,
	Adown the byways of the past,
I recognize the hopes and fears
	With which my life was overcast.
Anon I climbed the woodland heights,
	And bathed me in the running brook.
Old Time has taken rapid flights
	Since first my name was in his book.
O memories beyond recall
	That chastened me upon my way,
Mixed with the wormwood and with gall,
	And yet my faith was bright as day,
That He who notes the sparrow’s fall
	Would not forsake me, though alone;
And this I know, He heard my call
	In supplication at His throne.
And what shall be in years to come?
	My muse has never told me yet,
But here in Zion there’s a home
	That's compensation for regret.
							E. B. W.


NEVER ALONE
We are never alone among Saints who are
	true,
Who’ve sincerely accepted “the Covenant
	New;”
Relationship tender and near we can claim
Because we have taken upon us His name.
For He, our Redeemer, when here upon earth,
Once was told she would see Him who gave to
	Him birth;
He wondrously answered—Oh, blest be His
	grace!—
Words whose comfort and promise time ne’er
	shall efface:
“He that now doeth my own Father’s will,
The same is my brother, the law to fulfill;
My mother and sisters also are they”—
For the soul’s sure contentment what more
	could he say!
If we keep His sayings He’ll own us and bless;
We’re His sisters and mothers, we cannot be
	less;
Oh, blessed relation to Him, our great King!
With hearts full of gladness His praises we’ll
	sing.
No title e’er given to beings of earth
Could mean the great splendor, the beauty
	and worth,
Of that divine kinship which He thus declared
With those who are worthy for “mansions pre-
	pared.”
Look up, sister, brother, be glad and rejoice,
For He hath made plain by His own precious
	voice,
That we are all kindred—then why feel alone,
Since we hope soon to meet Him and kneel at
	His throne!
					—Mary A. Freeze.


[Column 1]
			OPPORTUNITY.
	[Paper read at recent meeting of Utah Wom-
an’s Press Club by Mrs. Amanda M. Done.]
	I like the common symbol of the New
Year, the pure, fresh, joyous, hopeful babe,
with infinite possibilities, unbounded hopes,
and countless opportunities. It is a symbol
of the fact that with the New Year every
one is born again; the dead past is buried;
and the future with its endless vista of hope,
is once more opened to us. The babe is the
fitting emblem of the New Year and its
opportunities.
	It seems appropriate to make Opportunity
our watchword for the year just opening,
and for every future year. It is the birth of
opportunity that the New Year symbolizes.
it means the immortality of the soul. That
soul alone is dead that has no hope of a new
and potent opportunity. As the meaning of
the second death is a cessation of progress,
so the meaning of eternal life is endless op-
portunity to advance. The death we need to
fear is stagnation. The soul can never die
that seizes potent time, and makes present
opportunity the means of unending future
advancement.
	I know of no poem in the language more
hopeless, more resonant of buried possibil-
ities and departed hopes, than the oft quoted
one by J. J. Ingalls, entitled, “Opportunity.’’
For the sake of the demonstration of my
point, I will quote it:
Master of human destinies am I,
Fame, love and fortune on my footsteps wait.
Cities and fields I walk; I penetrate
Deserts and seas remote, and passing by
Hovel, and mart, and palace— soon or late
I knock unbidden once at every gate!
If sleeping, wake—if feasting, rise before
I turn away. It is the hour of fate,
And they who follow me reach every state
Mortals desire, and conquer every foe
Save death; but those who doubt or hesitate;
Condemned to failure, penury and woe,
Seek me in vain and uselessly implore—
I answer not, and I return no more.
	By way of contrast, and to give further
demonstration of the thought I wish to con-
vey, I will quote a poem written in answer
to the one-just given, by one of our western
writers, Walter Malone. Opportunity is
represented as saying,
They do me wrong who say I come no more
	When once I knock and fail to find you in;
For every day I stand outside your door,
	And bid you wake, and rise to fight and win.
Wait not for precious chances past away;
	Weep not for golden ages on the wane!
Each night I burn the records of the day;
	At sunrise every soul is born again.
Laugh like a boy at splendors that have sped,
	To vanished joys be blind and deaf and
		dumb;
My judgments seal the dead past with its dead,
	But never bind a moment yet to come.
Though deep in mire, wring not your hands
	and weep;
I lend my arm to all who say, “I can!”
No shamefaced outcast ever sank so deep
	But yet might rise and be again a man!
Dost thou behold thy lost youth all aghast?
	Dost reel from righteous retribution’s blow?
Then turn from blotted archives of the past
	And find the future’s pages white as snow.
Art thou a mourner? Rouse thee from thy
	spell;
Art thou a sinner? Sins may be forgiven;

[Column 2]
Each morning gives thee wings to flee from
	hell,
Each night a star to guide thy feet to
	heaven.
The sublime line of the poem,
	“At sunrise every soul is born again,”
is the embodiment of hope and real oppor-
tunity. It gives to the struggling individual
a new lease of hope and life; and relegates
to oblivion the idea that an opportunity
missed spells hopelessness and despair. We
live too much in the past. The dead issues
of the past have too much of our attention
and our life. The thought that goes back-
ward except for momentary retrospect, to
gain a new and more substantial grasp on
the future, is a thought wasted, or worse
than wasted. The thought that dwells on
the present and projects itself into the fu-
ture, is the thought that is pregnant with
great hope and future possibility, that gives
birth to deeds of courage and strength and
sublime accomplishment.
	Our opportunities are countless and of
infinite variety. The giving of a cup of cold
water to a little child, is a priceless oppor-
tunity; and one that shall in no wise lose its
reward. The giving of a hopeful look and
a cheering word to one that thirsts for en-
couragement, is a blessed opportunity that
offers itself recurrently every day. The
lifting up of the hopeful, cheerful counte-
nance, to beam on the saddened face of sor-
row and bereavement, is one of our precious
opportunities. Not the giving alone to those
who may return the gift with interest; but
the giving of sunshine and greeting and
joyousness and hopefulness to the souls that
sink in poverty and hide in obscurity, and
pine away for just the visit or the word
with which more fortunate souls are sur-
feited.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	“The ballot needs woman more than
woman needs the ballot.” This was the
keynote of the address given by Dr. Roy K.
Flannagan, director of sanitary inspection
for the Virginia State Board of Health, be-
fore the Equal Suffrage League of Nor-
folk, Va., the other day.
	During a recent debate on woman suf-
frage in Hampton, Iowa, the speaker for
the negative, in making the good old “wom-
an-do-not-want-it” argument, asked every
woman in the room who would use the vote
if she had it to rise. To his manifest dis-
comfiture, practically every woman present
instantly sprang to her feet.
	Mrs. Joseph Johnson of London, Eng-
land, declared that women would not throw
their whole hearts into Christian service un-
til they were recognized by men on a com-
mon equality.
	The Ohio Woman Suffrage Association
is soon to open headquarters in Columbus,
at the Chittenden Hotel. Mrs. Rachel Fos-
ter Avery will speak for the Columbus suf-
fragists in January.
	More women’s votes were cast in Los An-
geles at the recent election than the whole
number of votes cast at the last presidential
election in the State of Mississippi. Mis-
sissippi has about five times the population
of Los Angeles.


36			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent
		
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., evfery day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City. Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-	DECEMBER, 1911


[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	To those who love the Christmas season
of joy and festivity there comes an appeal
for greater things than eating and drinking
and making merry. It is good to give and
blessed to receive, and yet there is some-
thing more precious still; it is the Christ
spirit that would make sacrifice for others,
the sublime charity that enters into the soul
of men and women, that loves all humanity
in the spirit of the great Master, who when
He was upon the cross cried, “Father, for-
give them for they know not what they do.”
	There is at present too much ostentation
and show about Christmas, and it has be-
come more or less demoralizing instead of
uplifting in its tendency. Exchange of
courtesies of a simple and unaffected nature,
greetings and congratulations, tender and
truly sympathetic, are ever acceptable, and
we should treasure these as jewels of the
brightest lustre.
	It is hardly possible to conceive, much less
to depict in words, the rich blessings that
have come to mankind through the birth and
ministrations of the Savior.
	“Gladly we sing on the Christmas eve
	Of the Babe that was born so long ago,
	And of Mary, the mother so sweet and pure,
	And of all the sorrow she lived to endure
	In the days of the wand’ring to and fro.”
	We should show by our good works that
we do appreciate the advent of our Lord
and Master into this world. When Jesus
said unto Peter, “Lovest thou me?” there 
was depth of meaning in His words; and to
emphasize His meaning He repeated His
words, “Lovest thou me?” And the in-
junction that followed, “Feed my sheep,”
was indeed significant of the love He felt for
those who needed the bread of life. We
cannot all minister as our Lord did but we
have within us what will help by word or
deed those who are weary and heavy laden;
and in our organizations we should culti-
vate and cherish the charity that feels for
“others’ woes” and minister to their wants
in so far as it is possible.
	The Relief Society in the various wards
throughout Zion, and indeed everywhere in
the world where the sisters are organized,
do try to attend to the wants of the needy
and afflicted and to scatter deeds of kind-
ness and shed rays of sunshine and hope
upon the pathway of life in the true spirit
of love.
	From our knowledge of Christmas fes-
tivities, England surpasses all other coun-

[Column 2]
tries in its picturesque and successful cele-
brations of this happy occasion. The char-
acteristic display upon the streets as pre-
served in word painting by those who have
in early life taken part in the songs and
festivities, the general music and display of
color and its accompaniments, is quite be-
yond description on paper: it must be seen
and heard to be effective. To be candid, it
is quite impossible to do the thing except at
Christmas time when the true Christmas
spirit is in the atmosphere and all hearts are
touched with the overflow of vitality that
bubbles forth in bursts of merriment and
joyousness. There is evidently such gayety
in the air that it intoxicates the brain of all
those who are susceptible to the influence
that uplifts as it were the humor of the
people at Christmas time. The feelings and
emotions, with the touch of human kind-
ness, that pervade the home and the family
circle at Christmas time instil a general
tenderness throughout all the village or
town. There is so much of goodness in the
workaday world that holiday times are wel-
comed more joyously than would be possible
perhaps without Christmas.
	After all, the celebration of Christmas
promotes and accomplishes far more good
than evil, even though folly and extrava-
gance are indulged in to a great extent.
Hospitality and the renewal of friendship’s
ties; the meeting together of families—all
these things make for that peace and unity
which is most desirable. Nothing in life is
more to be encouraged among friends and
kindreds than good fellowships, and the
coming together socially has the tendency
to eliminate ill feeling and to develop the
more excellent qualities of the heart and
mind that are latent in our souls, and to
create a desire for the higher aspirations
which produce harmony and lift us above the
petty weaknesses in ourselves or in others.
Good cheer is always enlivening and when
the feast is ready and grace is said, then
smiles, jests, and merriment prevail, and
after that, what more? Old songs are sung
and stories told, and fond recollections un-
veiled. Thus the soul is feasted.
	And so we say, “Christmas brings glad-
ness and joy.”


[Column 1]
			THE ROSE.
[Image of a rose]
	Undoubtedly the author of this exquisite-
ly tender poem of passion and sentiment has
entered, as it were, into the very heart of
nature and the philosophy of life.
	There is a richness and depth of feeling
in the poem itself, that cannot be expressed
in words, and is apparent only to the soul
of one who has the appreciation of heights
and depths, of joys and sorrows, of mortal
life, verging, as it were, upon the spiritual
and the unknown.
	The true poet and wise philosopher drink

[Column 2]
deeply at the hidden fountains of the eter-
nal spring, the source of wisdom and
knowledge of the infinite.
	Poetry and song are gifts of the highest
order heaven has bestowed upon human
beings; and where they are combined with
art, the possessor is assuredly favored with
what is termed artistic temperament.
	One is at a loss to express the thoughts
and emotions that come involuntarily to
one’s mind when reading this delicate and
gracefully written poem—“The Rose.”
	The rose itself suggests, we naturally
think, lovers in a garden of roses. A sa-
cred thought:
“Of love triumphant, love’s exhaustless pain,
Behold the rose, a symbol and a sign!
Let no rough hand, with vandal touch, profane
The Rose whose beauty makes its life divine.”
	We would scarcely dare to think of writ-
ing a poem about roses after reading Al-
fred Lambourne’s verses on the rose—they
are so beautiful.
	The story of the rose, its meaning and
the sentiment it suggests, and almost ex-
presses in itelf, thrill one to overflowing,
and kindle within the poetic fire that make
one desire to drink freely at the Pierian
spring.
“The Rose from all this beauty takes a part,
While now Life’s deepest passion rules the
	Hour,
Now opens to the Light its fragrant Heart
The wondrous Richness of the perfect Flower.”
	It is impossible to give a good idea of
this marvelous poem unless one had time to
study it well; but Utah may well be proud
of the book, so perfect in every detail that
it would seem impossible to find any fault
either in the poem itself, its setting or its
finish from type to cover.
	Mr. Lambourne has contributed some of
the choicest literature that has ever been
produced in the state of Utah. All of his
books have been carefully written and hand-
somely published, and make a valuable col-
lection for any of the several libraries in
the state.
	He certainly possesses the true genius of
Poetry and though born in a foreign coun-
try, our own America may well be proud
of his writings. Had his life been spent in
England, where there is more of history and
romance than in America, he might perhaps
have won the distinction of poet-laureate to
the king or queen.
“Yes, now the Rose, the wonder of the Rose—
The Summer’s Queen that lists the Summer’s
	Choir,
Now paid the Debt that Love to Beauty owes
And in the Heart, the One Immortal Fire!”


NOTICE.
	We are again constrained to remind
agents and subscribers that an immediate
and complete settlement of all outstanding
accounts is urgently desired. Changes that
are in contemplation with reference to the
Exponent make it necessary that these busi-
ness details be attended to; and patient as
we have been in the past, and still feel to be,
our friends will consider it not improper, we
trust, to be asked now to assist in closing up
properly and in a business way every possi-
ble account. The response to our recent re-
minder has been quite gratifying; and in
thanking our friends for this, we earnestly
request them to continue the good work,
and to let us hear from them as soon as pos-
sible.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HISTORY OF THE Y. L. M. I. A.
	A distinct and valuable contribution to
local literature is made by the general board
of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Association in their recently published “His-
tory of the Y. L. M. I. A.,” from the pen of
Susa Young Gates. The quaint beginnings
of the mighty movement among the daugh-
ters of Zion now crystallized in their great
and efficient organization are vivacious-
ly described; and matter for grateful
thought is furnished by a study of the un-
folding and development of this now far-
reaching and glorious work. The history is
brought down to the year 1910, and in addi-
tion to the main narrative, which for com-
pleteness and accuracy seems to leave noth-
ing to be desired, there is a brief resume of
the inception, progress, official changes and
present status of the association in each of
the stakes of Zion; these as well as the gen-
eral history are copiously illustrated with
portraits and places of interest. Not the least
valuable pages of the volume are those at
the end of each chapter, devoted to biog-
raphies, not only of those who have been
officially identified with the association, but
also of those veteran sisters whose motherly
interest in and devoted labors for the
younger women have made their names
household words. We are not aware of any
other source from which so much informa-
tion of this kind may be sought. Finally,
the lively and earnest style represents the
author’s best vein, and the critical revision
which committees of the general board gave
the manuscript insures an almost absolute
accuracy as to names, dates and events.
The book should be in every Church li-
brary, and in every home where there are
young people.


LITERARY NOTES.
	For those interested along lines of char-
ity work, no more interesting and instruc-
tive book could be found than “Twenty
Years of Hull House,” by Jane Addams,
the founder and guiding spirit of that won-
derful institution.
	The book is simply and charmingly writ-
ten, beginning with the early life of the
author, telling somewhat briefly, though
clearly, of her early surroundings, educa-
tion and impression, and leading the mind
gradually to the beginning of her life-work.
Then the story plunges almost instantly
into the midst of this great work, just as
she herself, after her prolonged prepara-
tion, finally folind herself engaged with all
the intensity of her soul in the work of
lifting up humanity in the endeavor to bring
brightness into the dark lives of the aged
poor, ambition to the downcast, health to the
afflicted, education to the ignorant and hope
to all. The introduction of settlement work
among the foreign mixed element of the
city of Chicago was a venture worthy the
truest soul and the success of this work is
the admiration of all classes and an exam-
ple of detail and generosity worthy to be
followed in every large city.
	The book, while fascinating as a fairy
tale, preaches a sermon of love and sacri-
fice such as is seldom found in the world,
and proving that somewhere there are those
who follow the admonition of the Master,
to love their neighbor as themselves.
	“Regeneration,” by Rider Haggard, is


another fine book on sociological work. The
book tells the story of the achievements of
the Salvation Army in England, describing
minutely the shelters, industries and differ-
ent homes operated by these untiring work-
ers, the followers of Gen. and Mrs. Booth,
among a class of unhappy, unfortunate and
sunken human beings seldom reached by the
efforts of other organized charities.


MME. MOUNTFORT IN PASADENA.
	We republish from the Pasadena Star, of
Jan. 4, vivid notes from Madame Mount-
fort’s lecture given in that city. She gave
this same lecture in full dress, with all the
equipments, to an appreciative audience in
Barratt Hall, this city, on the evening of
December 27, the lecture being under the
auspices of the General Board of the Y. L.
M. I. A. The Star says:
	“Clad in the full white camel’s hair robe
of a Palestine shepherd, with historical rod
and staff, musical pipes, slings of the type
used by David in the slaying of Goliath,
shepherd’s bag and necessary contents,
Madame Von Finklestein Mountfort, a na-
tive of Jerusalem, gave a brilliant exposi-
tion of the ‘Shepherd’s Psalm’ last evening
at the First Methodist church. An impos-
ing presence, dramatic ability and deep
feeling for spiritual things made the ‘shep-
herd’ of the evening a most impressive one.
Madame Mountfort did not confine her line
of thought to the twenty-third psalm though
that was the inspiration for many illuminat-
ing references to other portions of the Scrip-
tures through which the shepherd idea runs
like a silver thread. Especially effective
was the story of the ‘Ninety and Nine’ when
the hunt for the lost one, down in the gorges
and up the mountain steeps, the calling and
coaxing in true shepherd fashion, ended in
the finding of the lamb. It was from ac-
tual experience that Madame Mountfort
spoke, and she knew the weird and thrilling
songs and calls of the shepherd, ‘for she had
lived in the land’ most of her life and many
a time had been with the shepherds on the
plains of Palestine or on the steep moun-
tain-sides.”
	Madame Mountfort’s visit to this city
recently was a very great pleasure and sat-
isfaction to her many old friends, who re-
call her former visits to Utah during the
nineties. She made her headquarters at the
Hotel Utah, where she received her old
friends, and gave several lectures in differ-
ent churches and meeting houses as well as
in the Tabernacle on Christmas Sunday,
Dec. 24, on the nativity of Christ. She was
clad in full, oriental dress of white, and
made a most striking appearance. Her de-
scription of Mary, the mother of the Savior,
and of her coming to Bethlehem with Jo-
seph, and the birth of the Babe, were all
given in a most graphic manner. Her ser-
mon must have made a deep impression on
the congregation. Mme. Mountfort herself
is certainly one of the most celebrated wom-
en of the world at the present day, and has
a most wonderful personality. At the great
international council, held in London in
1899, she represented the countries of the
far east, and was listened to with rapt at-
tention while giving the status of women
in those far-off lands.


CLARA BARTON IS 90.
	On December 25, Miss Clara Barton,
founder of the American National Red
Cross Society, was showered with greetings
and good wishes in honor of her 90th birth-
day.
	Although feeble from her illness early in
the year, Miss Barton was able to celebrate
the day with relatives and friends who spent
Christmas with her at her home in Glen
Echo, Md.
	Miss Barton has probably been the means
of relieving more human suffering than any
other person in the United States. Like
Florence Nightingale, she has been a life-
long advocate of equal rights for women.
in an address given at the May Festival
of the New England W. S. A. some years
ago, Miss Barton said:
	“I believe I must have been born believ-
ing in the full right of woman to all the
privileges and positions which nature and
justice accord to her in common with other
human beings. Perfectly equal rights—
human rights. There was never any ques-
tion in my mind in regard to this. I did not
purchase my freedom with a price; I was
born free; and when, as a younger woman,
heard the subject discussed, it seemed sim-
ply ridiculous that any sensible, rational per-
son should question it. And when, later,
the phase of woman’s right to suffrage came
up, it was to me only a part of the whole,
just as natural, just as right, and just as cer-
tain to take place.
	“And whenever I have been urged as a
petitioner to ask for this privilege for wom-
an, a kind of dazed, bewildered feeling has
come over me.
	“Of whom should I ask this privilege?
Who possessed the right to confer it? Who
had greater right than woman herself? Was
it man, and, if so, how did he get it? Who
conferred it upon him? He depended upon
woman for his being, his very existence,
nurture and rearing. More fitting that she
should have conferred it upon him I
	“Was it governments? What were they
but the voice of the people? What gave
them their power? Was it divinely con-
ferred ? Alas! no; or they would have been
better, purer, more just and stable.
	“Was it force of arms—war? Who fur-
nished the warriors? Who but the moth-
ers ? Who reared the sons and taught them
that liberty and their country were worth
their blood? Who gave them up, wept
their fall, nursed them in suffering, and
mourned them dead?
	“Was it labor? Women have always, as a
rule, worked harder than men.
	“There is, once in a while, a monarch
who denies the right of man to place a
crown upon his head. Only the great Je-
hovah can crown and anoint him for his
work, and he reaches out, takes the crown,
and places it upon his head with his own
hand. I suspect that this is in effect what
woman is doing today. Virtually there is
no one to give her the right to govern her-
self, as men govern themselves by self-made
and self-approved laws of the land. But in
one way or another, sooner or later, she
is coming to it. And the number of thought-
ful and right-minded men who will oppose
will be much smaller than we think and
when it is really an accomplished fact, all
will wonder, as I have done, what the objec-
tion ever was.”—The Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	We, the sisters of the Granite Stake Relief
Society, have been bereft of our beloved coun-
selor, co-worker and friend, dear Sister Mary
P. Young.
	Her life was an inspiration—a life devoted
to the good of others, to the up-building of
those with whom she labored. She was an ex-
emplification of all that is pure and beautiful
the sunshine of every circle in which she min-
gled. A glorious woman, a noble soul.
	The memory of her sweet life, her deeds of
faithfulness, will ever linger with us.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her bereaved husband and children,
and pray our heavenly Father to bless them,
and comfort their hearts in this hour of afflic-
tion.
	Be it further resolved, that we present a copy
of this memoriam to the bereaved family, that
a copy be recorded in the minutes of our Relief
Society, and that one be sent to the Woman’s
Exponent for publication.
	“Sister, thou wast mild and lovely.
		Gentle as the summer breeze,
	Pleasant as the air of evening,
		When it floats among the trees.
	“Dearest sister, thou hast left us.
		Here thy loss we deeply feel;
	But ’tis God that hath bereft us,
		He can all our sorrows heal.”
				Emma S. Woodruff,
				Lenora T. Harrington,
				Katherine H. Brockbank,
					Stake Presidency R. S.
			OBITUARY.
	Sister Mary Pratt Young departed this life
at Salt Lake City, Oct. 25, 1911. Funeral serv-
ices were held at the Forest Dale chapel on
Sunday, Oct. 29, at 1 p. m., Bishop James Jen-
sen presiding. Appropriate musical selections
were rendered by the choir and Bro. Charles
R. Pike, who sang feelingly, “I know that my
Redeemer lives,” and “The Rosary.”
	Remarks were made by Elders Nephi Jen-
sen, Geo. M. Cannon, President Frank Y. Tay-
lor and others, who testified eloquently to the
love and esteem in which the deceased was
held. The floral offerings were numerous and
beautiful. Interment in city cemetery.


A PIONEER WOMAN PASSED AWAY.
	Sarah Ann Sargent Martin died at her
home in Wilson, Utah, October 25th, 1911,
after only a few days illness.
	She was born at Newbury, England, De-
cember 18, 1836.
	In 1851, the father, then a widower, and
his five children, having embraced the gos-
pel, sold their lovely home to come to Utah.
After a sea-voyage of thirteen weeks, they
prepared for the trip across the continent.
After furnishing ample means for crossing
the plains to Mr. Kelsey, the elder in charge,
they started up the Missouri river by steam-
boat, but here their real troubles began.
The “Saluda” was blown up and Mr. Sar-
gent was later found three hundred feet
away with every remaining cent stolen from
his dead body. The baby boy was never
found, and those left were terribly bruised
and burned.
	They were taken care of until recovery
by a kind family, who wanted to furnish
them means to return to their old home, if
they would give up the gospel. But their
dear father’s teachings held sway and they
hunted up Mr. Kelsey. He would only
give them an old ox team and one wagon.
	After their arrival in Salt Lake City, they
were destitute, and their trusted housekeeper
left them. Sister Martin, the oldest and
then only seventeen, was taken severely ill
of typhoid fever, but it was a case of work I
or starve, and she had to go to work before
she was recovered.


In 1855 she met and loved John Martin
and three weeks later was married to him.
Together they suffered all the hardships of
early pioneer life. Their home was burned
by the U. S. troops sent to wipe out the
“Mormons.” Locusts destroyed their crops
and they had to live on “greens” for weeks
at a time. Indians frightened them, and
hard work was their constant portion be-
cause they must raise and make their clothes
as well as their food.
	Sister Martin was the mother of twelve
children. She has been an active worker in
the Church. Since the organization of a Re-
lief Society in her ward in 1878, she has
been at its head. She was counselor to the
president until her death, then she took that
responsibility in ’97 and carried on the work
until a fall which crippled her necessitated
her resignation, only a short time before
her demise. Her release did not break her
enthusiasm and she still kept up her help-
ful visits to the poor or to the sick.
	Sister Martin was wrapped up in the
service of others, and her reward here was
the love and respect of those who knew her.
	She is survived by her venerable hus-
band, six children, forty-seven grand-
children and one sister, Louisa Harris, the
mother of Judge Harris of Ogden; as well
as a host of friends won by her ever hopeful,
amiable disposition.
					DRUSILLA HOLMES.


[Column 1]
ANOTHER WARD PRESIDENT PASSES
				ON.
	Just before the Christmas-tide we laid
away our beloved President, Elizabeth J.
Davis in a profusion of roses and carna-
tions. All the earth was covered with a
soft mantle of snow. The day was beauti-
ful, and the fragrant flowers seemed typical
of the life of this noble woman, which had
been pure and beautiful, full of the “charity
that never faileth.” Sister Elizabeth has
indeed been a Mother in Israel. Her kind,
inspirational voice, sweet smile and cheerful
disposition won all hearts. When she
crossed the threshold of the distressed she
seemed to know intuitively what was
needed, and how assistance might be of-
fered without offense to the most sensitive.
	She was a promoter of harmony and be-
came a power for good wherever her hands
touched. It was her privilege to be asso-
ciated in Relief Society work with both
Maria and Elizabeth Nebeker and with Ra-
chel Whipple. She also labored under M.
Isabella Horne, Clarissa S. Williams and
Harriet B. Harker, in the Salt Lake Stake,
and has been recognized as a type of the
best ward Relief Society President.
	Sister Davis, whose end, without doubt,
was hastened by her overweening care for
the poor and distressed, was taken while in
full possession of her power and ability in
a very active service. A few days longer
would have brought her fifty-ninth birthday,
for she was born Dec. 23.
	Her native land was England, where she
was baptized in 1866, and six years later
came to “Zion.” In 1874 she was married
to James B. Davis, in this city. Her hus-
band, one daughter, and three sons survive
her. She had buried three children during
her life.
	Her only daughter, Elizabeth, was called
to hasten home from her wedding tour in
California, and though she made every ef-

[Column 2]
fort to reach her mother’s side before death
came, she was too late.
	Elizabeth J. Davis was devoted to her
husband, home and children, as well as to
the Relief Society of the Twenty-second
ward, in which capacity she labored over
twenty years. The members of the ward
feel in her taking off a personal loss. The
ward meetinghouse was therefore filled to
overflowing at her funeral, and loving trib-
utes were paid to her memory by Bishop
Alfred Solomon and others. A powerful
discourse was delivered by Judge Booth of
Provo. Bishop Alvin Beesley gave a touch-
ing expression of his great appreciation of
the life and works of the deceased in be-
half of the distressed, and urged the mem-
bers of the ward to emulate her generosity
and interest in the feeble, sick, and poor. Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne represented the Gen-
eral Board of Relief Society and the Twen-
ty-second ward organization and Mrs. Net-
tie D. Bradford spoke for the stake offi-
cers. The music was choice and touching.
Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang “Ave
Maria” and Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward
rendered, “I know that My Redeemer
Lives.” Bishop Alvin Beesley acted as ac-
companist.
	The Relief Society officers had charge
of the funeral services. 
		MARTHA J. WILLEY, Secretary.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	For those who are not fortunate enough
to own a fine roasting pan, it will be a com-
fort to know that a paper bag for roasting
purposes may be purchased at your grocer’s
for a nominal price that serves the purpose
equally well. The dressed fowl or roast or
rolled steak or chop after having been prop-
erly wiped off with a damp cloth, is sea-
soned with pepper and salt, dredged with
flour and placed within the sack and the
end carefully closed. Place on the oven
grate and cook the required time. With
this convenience no basting is required, the
juices are retained, and the roasting is per-
fectly done.
	Following are some timely and well prov-
en recipes:
	CREAM SALAD DRESSING.—6 teaspoonful
sugar, 1 of mustard, of salt mixed to-
gether; add to this 2 well beaten eggs and
p2 cup vinegar; cook over boiling water un-
til thick as rich cream; when cold, add 1 cup
of cream, preferably whipped. This dress-
ing is served on any vegetable but for fruit
salad, omit mustard and use lemon juice in
place of vinegar.
	SALTED ALMONDS—Blanche 1/4 lb. Jordan
almonds by pouring boiling water on them.
Put one-third cup olive oil in small sauce-
pan and when hot put in one-fourth of the
almonds; fry until delicately browned, stir-
ring to keep almonds in motion; remove
with a skimmer and drain on brown paper,
sprinkled with salt.. Repeat until all are
fried.

	Uncle Sam: They are sure to get the
vote soon, anyway, Santa, and I say make
it a Christmas present. John Bull may
keep his womenfolk down as long as he can,
but I want “Peace on earth, good will to
men.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	THE BUSINESS OF HOME MAKING.
	[The following interesting paper on the above
subject was read before a recent meeting of Par-
ents’ class instructors in the Sunday School union
meeting of Pioneer stake. While there are some
allusions and suggestions that may be deemed of
local application, there is so much of interest in
the paper that we are pleased to publish it as
read.―Ed.]
	The subject as given in the Juvenile In-
structor for discussion in the Parents’ class
for the coming month offers a wide and
varied field, treating as it purposes to do
with the selecting of a building spot, the
building of the home, the exterior and in-
terior arrangements, the decorating, the
furnishing, the surroundings, the outhouses
and fences, and even the sunshine and the
shade. It would certainly have been wiser
in my opinion had the stake supervisors se-
lected an architect, or at any rate a man, to
present this subject today to the present
company; at least some one who could give
good practical suggestions, rather than one
who had lived in many homes but had yet
the pleasure in anticipation of building a
house; for the only houses I have built are
air castles which, like the morning-glory,
fade in the glare and heat of the sun.
	The subject is “Home-making,”—and the
outline is “House-making;” between which,
though I don’t wish to be critical, there is
a vast difference. The former, though of
the humblest architecture, may be a heaven-
ly place, while the latter, though a palace,
may hold not one of the attributes of home.
Charles Dickens aptly portrays the home
thought when he says: “The man of high
descent may love the halls and lands of his
inheritance as a part of himself, as trophies
of his birth and power. The poor man’s at-
tachment to the tenement he holds, which
strangers have held before and may tomor-
row occupy again, has a worthier root
struck deep into a purer soil. His house-
hold gods are of flesh and blood; he has no
property but in the affections of his own
heart, and when they endear bare floors and
walls, despite of toil and scanty meals, that
man has his love of home from God and his
rude hut becomes a solemn place.”
	After all, whether the house we occupy
is humble or magnificent, built of wood or
stone, is our own or rented, the home spirit
depends on the conduct of its inhabitants.
If every builder of a home puts into it the
best of himself, cheerfulness, contentment
and love, he has builded better than he
knew.
	The Latter-day Saints are home-makers
and home-builders. The business of home-
making is a part of their religion, and or-
ganization. When as a weary, footsore band
of pilgrims they entered these valleys, one
of the first steps taken was the apportion-
ment of lands to the heads of families for
homes. As perhaps you all are aware, each
city block contained ten acres and an acre
and a quarter was allotted each family. It
was always the policy of the Church in the
founding of cities to build rather close for
the sake of protection against the wild ani-
mals and savages, and also for social and re-
ligious purposes; and though now the dan-
gers of the desert are lessened, it is still
Church advice to the people when settling
new parts to make the homes close and go
back and forth to the farms.
	The people were necessarily agriculturists

[Column 2]
but notwithstanding the fact that they were
farmers the homes were built close together, 
and wisely, too. When the immigration in-
creased, the counsel was to scatter out and
build more homes, so what was at first the
founding of a city in a few short years be-
came the building of a state. In order to
encourage and assist those sent farther away
to take up land and build homes, members
of the general authorities were called to
different localities to instruct the people and
to make them better satisfied in building
away from the center stake of Zion. Thus,
men who had acquired fine building sites and
had located their families in some degree of
comfort, “pulled up stakes” again, in obedi-
ence to the word of those in authority, and
moved into other parts. Almost all the
members of the quorum of the Twelve were
called to do this. For instance, Franklin D.
Richards, who owned the property just
south of Second South on West Temple,
near where the Dooly block and other fine
business property now stands, was called to
Weber Co., where he figured largely in the
building up of Ogden and neighboring
towns. Lorenzo Snow built and owned the
commodious and once handsome home after-
wards occupied by Hiram B. Clawson on
Third East and South Temple streets, and
was called to build up Box Elder county.
Ezra T. Benson built the large, stately home
on the corner of Main and South Temple,
afterwards known as the “Wells Mansion,”
and now the site of the Templeton and other
business blocks; he went to build up Cache
county. Charles C. Rich, a large property
owner in the northwest part of town
founded and led in the building of Bear
Lake county. Orson Hyde went to Sanpete,
Erastus Snow to St. George and Arizona,
Amasa Lyman to Millard county, and
George A. Smith to Iron county, all show-
ing that the acquiring of land and building
of homes has ever been considered an es-
sential part of the religion of the Latter-
day Saints.
	An up-to-date architect would perhaps
think some of the homes of early days,
erected by those in position to build large
houses, perfect monstrosities on account of
the size of the rooms, the thickness of the
walls, the depth of the window seats, the
broad beams, close studding and high ceil-
ings; still there is an air of stability and
comfort and ease about these old homes,
which the modern home does not possess.
However, it is a fact that from many points
of economy, both in means and labor, these
old colonial houses are relegated largely to
the past, and the modern home, with small
compartments, low ceilings, few if any
stairs, and conveniences of steam, water or
air heat, hot and cold water with bath and
toilet and oftentimes laundry, all under one
roof, are much easier on the house wife and
really more cosy and home-like, if not so
pretentious and imposing.
	The choosing of the site for the house de-
pends altogether on the piece of property
one happens to own, or is able to purchase.
One thing certain, we cannot all live on the
“east side,” nor on the high lands; but if
we happen to have to build and live, as most
of us here do, on the “west side,” and near
the low lands, it is well to choose the high-
est part of our land on which to build our
homes, thus giving a pleasant grade for the
yard from the door to the street, besides
being better from a sanitary standpoint

[Column 3]
since all drainage would be from the house
and not towards it. The house should be
built as high and as far above the ground as
the features of the site and the means of the
builder will allow, especially where the land
is inclined to be marshy and damp, as is the
case in a large part of this stake, to avoid
malaria and kindred diseases to which such
lands are subject.
	It seems to me very hard to tell in the
Parents’ class just how to build a home.
One might have in mind a home that would
cost three or four thousand dollars or more,
with hardwood floors, plate-glass windows,
sideboards, dressers and bookcases built in
the walls to save space, and few if any of us
be able to follow any such plans. I believe
thoroughly in every one striving to own a
home, and in that home to put his best
thought for points of convenience and com-
fort and happiness for himself and family;
to care for that home with all his best en-
deavor; to have it clean and wholesome
and neat; and if in our discussions in the
Parents’ class we can throw out suggestions
to help each other build better, purer, safer
and more beautiful homes, let us do it.
	The ideal home to me, as I said in the
beginning of this article, depends on the oc-
cupants, not on the architecture. However,
an ideal house is a very different thing, and
in this matter tastes differ so widely that it
would be difficult to describe one. Some
general principles, however, might be car-
ried out in the building of any home: first,
to have the house and all surroundings as
sanitary as possible for the sake of the health
of one’s family; plenty of light and sunshine
in the rooms help in this matter; simplicity
in the wood work—if hardwood is too ex-
pensive, the natural soft wood stained is
much easier to keep clean than painted, as
are also plain mouldings instead of orna-
mental casings and skirtings; pantries are
not any longer considered a necessity, and
the housewife finds the kitchen sideboard
much more handy and labor saving; she
also prefers that the sink be not too far away
from the stove, and the small kitchen is very
much more popular. Most women will tell
you that if they could only have three rooms,
they would want one of them to be a bath-
room; and indeed this is a necessary luxury.
The sleeping porch is also very popular even
on the smallest houses. It is believed to be
the means of curing some diseases and pre-
venting others; in that respect it is economy
to build one, for health is wealth, and what
was once held to be only a fad has become
now a most desirable accessory to the mod-
ern home. The furnishings of a home are
altogether a matter of taste and knowledge
of one’s means. Good books, pretty pic-
tures and like accessories are inexpensive
and add largely to the beauty and pleasure
of a home, and it is very easy to contrive
pretty dressing tables and other furnishings
out of rude material if one possesses a little
ingenuity and good taste. Where the fam-
ily means allow, of course the furnishings
can be as elegant as one chooses. However,
“Are you not surprised to find how inde-
pendent of money peace of conscience is and
how much happiness can be condensed in
the humblest home? A cottage will not
hold the bulky furniture and sumptuous ac-
commodations of a mansion; but if God be
there a cottage will hold as much happiness
as might stock a palace. 			A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BENSON STAKE.
	The Benson Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in Richmond Nov. 9, 1911.
President Rebecca Rawlins presided, and
welcomed all present and hoped the Spirit of
the Lord would be in our midst during our
conference. Reports from the different
wards were then heard. A paper written
by Ida Rogers, on religion in the home, was
read by Maud Roskelley.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates, of the General
Board, spoke of the work the sisters have
to do and the work they are doing. We
must face the storm in order to do our
duty; spoke of Temple work; we must learn
to estimate time that we may attend to our
spiritual duties.
	Sister Edna May Davis, of the General
Board, spoke of the need of being prayer-
ful in order to perform our duties. We must
strive to have patience with our children and
especially the wayward ones.
	Afternoon Session.—After the opening
exercises Sister Mary J. Harrison made a
few opening remarks hoping we would have
an enjoyable time together. A very able
paper was given by Hannah Larson on
“Temple Work.” A song was nicely ren-
dered by Sister Isabella Holladay and chor-
us, after which Linnie Fisher of Oxford
recited a piece entitled, “The Old Home.”
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke of simplic-
ity in dress when entering the Temple—that
we should pay more attention to dressing
the mind than to dressing the body.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children to read, more
especially to read the Bible. She asked the
mothers to read to their little ones that they
might form the habit; also to teach our chil-
dren to pray—to pray with our boys, so that
when they grow older they will benefit by it.
	Brother Samuel Roskelley urged the sis-
ters to put into practice what they had
heard; after which the benediction was of-
fered by August S. Schow.
				OLIVE HARRIS, Sec.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the Ninth
Ward meeting house, Dec. 14, 1911, Coun-
selor Zurviah G. Eardley presiding, Presi-
dent Anna S. Musser being excused on ac-
count of being in quarantine. After the
opening exercises, the roll was called, each
ward being represented. Sister Eva M.
James then favored us with a solo, and the
Tenth, Thirty-third, Liberty and Emigra-
tion Wards were reported to be progressing
favorably and in the line of their duty.
Sister Lillian Malquist rendered a piano
solo.
	Sister Alice M. Horne of the General
Board addressed the conference, giving
good instructions, speaking words of en-
couragement, and urged all present to sub-
scribe for the Woman’s Exponent.
	The solo entitled “Sometime, Some-
where,” was rendered by Sister Eva James,
after which Elders C. W. Symons and T.
H. Woolley of the High Council spoke to us
for a short time, stating their interest in
Relief Society work, the influence for good
derived from it, encouraged us to seek in-
spiration from our Heavenly Father, and
expressed their desire to render what as-
sistance they could for the cause.

[Column 2]
	Sister Elizabeth Crismon of the General
Board addressed us for a short time.
	Counselor Mary Hodgson spoke on the
Christmas spirit and encouraged us to be
cheerful givers.
	After the closing exercises conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock. During the noon
recess, lunch was served to all present.
	Confernece reconvened at 2 o’clock.
After the opening exercises, and a solo en-
titled “Jerusalem,” by Sister Nellie Scon-
berg, Counselor Z. G. Eardley gave greeting
and welcomed all present, afterwards intro-
ducing Elder LeGrand Young, who lec-
tured to us on the “Advancement of Wom-
en,” which was instructive and much en-
joyed. A letter was read from the General
Board concerning the storing of wheat, also
one about Richie’s Primer of Sanitation.
	Elder C. W. Symons spoke to us on the
organization of the Relief Society and its
early history, and asked the blessings of
God on all our efforts.
	Counselor Eardley made a few closing
remarks, thanking all who had helped to
make our conference a success. After a
solo by Sister Eva James entitled “God be
with us till we meet again,” benediction
was pronounced by Sister Vilate Barrows.
Adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.
		ONEIDA STAKE.
	Conference of the Oneida Stake Relief
Society, Nov. 12, 1911, President Louisa B.
Benson presiding. There were present Susa
Y. Gates and Edna May Davis of the Gen-
eral Board, Stake President Jos. S. Geddes,
Counselor James Johnson, members of the
High Council, and other leading brethren.
After opening exercises, Counselor Hannah
Mickleson made an address of welcome.
The roll call showed eleven members of the
Stake Board present, and nine societies rep-
resented. The treasurer’s report was read
and approved. The Societies of Preston
Third Ward, Fairview and Oxford were re-
ported as in satisfactory condition, the
teachers working earnestly, the mothers’
work doing much good, etc.; after which
Sister Susa Young Gates spoke as follows:
	“When we do our duty under adverse
circumstances it helps to strengthen our
character. The strongest men and women
among us have been brought up through ad-
versity. You have one condition here not
found elsewhere, that is, the young moth-
ers are members and workers. This is as
it should be. The Y. L. M. I. A. is a step-
ping stone to the Relief Society. Every
branch of our work in the home, or in any
and every walk of life should be founded on
the stone of the Gospel of Christ. Mothers,
bring up your children on the diet of the
Scriptures. Feeding the poor, visiting the
sick, clothing the naked, etc., are good, but
not enough for Latter-day Saints. We must
live our religion. As women of Zion we
must honor our husbands if we would bring
up our children in the path of the Gospel.
The Relief Society is the only auxiliary or-
ganization that came under the direct super-
vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith.” (The
speaker read Section 25 of the Doctrine and
Covenants, a revelation given to Emma
Smith.) “You Relief Society officers must
work in harmony with your Bishop, as the
Priesthood is the head; it is the power dele-
gated by God for the government of His
Church, and we must honor His Priest-
hood.”

[Column 3]
	Piano solo, by Letitia Pauli.
	Edna May Davis made a few remarks on
proper dress.
	Benediction by Dora Geddes.
	At the afternoon session, the stake choir
furnished the singing, and three more ward
Societies were represented.
	President Louisa B. Benson reported the
Societies of the stake as being in a very en-
couraging condition; spoke on the necessity
of teachers being prompt in visiting; and
asked the husbands to assist their wives to
come to the Relief Society meetings.
	Piano solo, by Letitia Pauli.
	A paper, “Synopsis of Mothers’ Work,”
was read by Secretary Phebe A. M. McNeil.
	Duet by Leonard and Mabel Moore.
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke as follows:
	“It is truth that counts, and I desire to
speak nothing but truth to you. One lesson
we should learn is to do good, not from a
desire for reward but from a love of truth
and righteousness. Today is the day to pre-
pare to meet the Lamb. The vanity of the
world and love of dress are leading many
of our young people astray. Parents should
teach their children the importance of go-
ing to the Temple to be married and thus
start life right. Tight short skirts, with low
neck and short sleeves do not betoken a
modest girl and should never be worn. Mod-
esty is a better adornment than jewels. We
make a serious mistake when we clothe the
body and neglect the mind—the spirit part
of us.”
	The next speaker, Sister Susa Young 
Gates, said:
	“My father (President Young) used to
say ‘Praying will make a man stop sinning,
and sinning will stop a man from praying.'
Life is so short—it is but a span between
the life before and the life to come, that we
have no time to spend in club work. Every
thought, every action of our life should be
to progress in the truth and sowing germs of
eternal truth in the minds of those whom we
meet. Real intelligence is the knowledge of
God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. When
we do not pay an honest tithing we rob our-
selves.” Spoke of Temple work and the
blessings we enjoy in being privileged to
work therein for the redemption of our
dead. “May the Lord help us to be Latter-
day Saints in very deed, and to be true ear-
nest Relief Society workers.”
	Choir sang an anthem, and the benedic-
tion was pronounced by President Jos. S.
Geddes.
		PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL, Sec’y.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	The branch of the National Woodrow
Wilson League just formed at Stanford
University was limited to men. But 13 of
the young women students came in a body
and asked admission. According to the
San Francisco Bulletin, a law student point-
ed to the by-law excluding women.
	“Oh, change it,” chorused the girls.
“We’ve changed the constitution of the
State of California, so it won't be hard for
you to change your by-laws!”
	Thereupon the young men not only
changed the obnoxious by-law, but elected
Miss Mary Felita Smith of Fresno vice-
president. They are now boasting that Stan-
ford has the first political club of men and
women ever organized at an American uni-
versity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 40				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MIDWINTER NUMBER, 1912				No. 6.


CONTENTS.
Charles Dickens .............................A. W. C.		41
Aunt Myram’s Garden...........Mell C. Wood		43
How the Betsy Ross Flag Was Made...........		43
In Balmy Southern California......................
	..............................Elizabeth S. Wilcox		43
Sketches from the Life of Eunice Billings
	Snow.....................................................		47
Notes and News...................................... 43,		48
R. S. Reports: Teton Stake............................		46
		Ogden Stake..................................		47
		Bear River Stake...........................		47
Editorial:
		Greetings and Congratulations......		44
		Progress of Women in the Last
			Seventy Years.......................		44
		In Memoriam................................		45
		Organized Charity.........................		45
		Mary Stevenson Clark...................		46
		Literary Notes................................		46
Poetry:
		Youth and Old Age.Ruth May Fox		41
		Youth of Zion..Emmeline B. Wells	43


YOUTH AND OLD AGE.
	(Inscribed to Sister E. B. Wells.)
How beautiful is youth! fresh, fearless, gay;
Like laughing water, bounding down the steep
To join the foaming torrent's frenzied dance,
In haste to reach the open sea. What then?
With wond’ring eyes gaze on the mystic deep,
A fond farewell—farewell forevermore.
How far more beautiful is mellowed age,
Which calmly lingers at the ebon gate,
As roses eld await a passing breeze
To waft their petals o’er the garden wall;
Which looketh retrospectively upon
A lustrous, fruitful past, without remorse,
Without regret for unaccomplished aims—
For pain or woe, hot tears or aching limbs;
Rejoicing rather in the glorious end
Of that which was, and is, and yet shall be.
Repinings for departed youth, begone!
Like flow’rs, ’twas made to blossom and decay;
But life—eternal life—belongs to age,
All knowledge, wisdom, glory in its train.
Then wherefore care if time our cheeks doth
	mar,
Doth bind our furrowed brows with leaden
	bands,
Refuses guidance to our tired feet,
Should even bid our quivering lips be still;
Old age, like Everest’s towering peak
Shall rear its head until it pierce the skies.
					—Ruth May Fox.


[Column 1]
		CHARLES DICKENS.
A Review of His Life, Suggested by the World-
	Wide Observance of His One-Hundredth
				Birthday.
	At the beginning of the nineteenth century
the civilized world was in almost a state of
stagnation so far as advancement along edu-
cational lines was concerned. Napoleon, that
most consummate and indomitable of sol-
diers, was marching through all Europe with
his “grand army,” carrying everything be-
fore him. The nations were terrified and
every effort, every means, was being ex-
pended to assemble armies, train and equip
them to meet this one great foe of nations―

[Column 2]
a feat at last successfully accomplished
when at Waterloo, in 1815, Napoleon’s star
fell from the heavens, and his power ceased
forever.
	Charles Dickens was at that time three
years old, having been born in 1812. The
terrors of war having past, the world was
in the dawn of a new era or epoch of let-
ters, and one of the brightest literary con-
stellations that has ever lighted the world
appeared when Charles Dickens began his
career. There were Scott, Thackeray, For-
ster (Dickens’s greatest friend and biog-
rapher), Macready the actor, Thomas Car-
lyle, Lytton, Leigh Hunt, Dean Stanley,
George Henry Lewes, and many others.
	The years of Charles Dickens’s childhood
and early manhood were important in the
social history of the old world. They may
be said to mark the parting of the ways be-
tween the past age and the present. He be-
gan life when coaches were the quickest
means of transportation from one part of
the country to another; and yet he lived to
cross the Atlantic in a steamboat. In read-
ing Dickens’s writings it is well to remem-
ber these facts and to think of London, the
scene of most of his books, not as the Lon-
don of today with her wonderful under-
ground railways, her network of electric
contrivances for lighting and conveying
messages, the great river Thames with ex-
pansive bridges where the greatest shipping
of the world is carried on, and along whose
banks now is one of the most interesting
thoroughfares in the world, with statues,
obelisks, parks and palaces; but a great,
dark city with thousands of inhabitants
struggling for a livelihood in almost any
way that presented itself; advancing, cer-
tainly, but the great genius of invention had
not discovered itself when Dickens began
his literary career.
	So much of Charles Dickens’s personal
history is in his writings that it is well to
know something of the man himself.
	Charles John Huffam Dickens was born
on Friday, February 7, 1812, at Landport in
Portsea. His father, John Dickens, was a
clerk in the navy pay office, working at this
time in the Portsmouth dock yard; his
mother had been a Miss Elizabeth Barron. 
Of his father, a thriftless, luckless man, Dick-
ens always spoke with affectionate regard;
though it is well known he was the model
for the famous character Micawber. To his
mother, who apparently misunderstood him,
and yet to whom he owed all he had of early
education, he seldom referred. He was by
no means an only nor a favored child, being
the second in a family of eight children.
After a short residence in London, when
Charles was between four and five years old
the family moved to Chatham, where many
strong impressions were made upon his
mind, even though so young, and which in
some ways are marked in his later life and
works. It was here he first learned to read,
having been taught by his mother. He was
fond of reading, fond of dreaming and his
father’s library, which though not large pos-
sessed some rather fine books, was Dickens’s

[Column 3]
delight. He cared little for games and out-
door sports, and was a rather small and deli-
cate child. The books he read, and whose
characters he afterwards lived and acted,
were, “Tom Jones,” “Roderick Random,”
“Peregrine Pickle,” “Humphrey Clinker,”
“The Vicar of Wakefield,” “Don Quixote,”
“Gil Bias,” “Robinson Crusoe,” and the
“Arabian Nights”—strange books for so
young a child, but he himself says in the
mouth of David Copperfield: “They did
me no harm, for whatever harm there was
in some of them was not there for me. I
knew nothing of it.”
	During the last two years at Chatham he
attended school; and when he was nine,
the family moved back to London. Now
began the sadness and trials of the boy’s life,
the memories of which he could never ef-
face nor the causes did he ever forgive; and
yet to this very time of trial for the little
fellow the world owes much, for it was
then he saw and learned the cruel side of
life; it was then his nature was so touched
with the lowly, the pathetic, even the crim-
inal side; it was then that he walked and
toiled among the poor, the unfortunate, the
cringing and the wicked, but possessed of
his God-given gifts of thoughtfulness, dis-
cernment, character study and a wonderful
mind. The people he met and the lessons
he learned in his sorrow have brightened
and delighted many hearts when pictured
and characterized by his most facile pen.
Of these days he himself writes: “I know
that I have lounged about the streets in-
sufficiently clad and unsatisfactorily fed. I
know that, but for the mercy of God, I might
easily have been, for any care that was taken
of me, a little robber or a little vagabond.”
	Through the adverse circumstances of his
parents he was compelled to go to work and
found employment pasting labels on boxes of
blacking. Trying to help his mother and
make the most he could out of a shilling a
day, exposed to everything painful and evil,
it is a wonder that his delicate body neither
succumbed to the privation and exposure
nor his character yielded to the evil influ-
ences; but Providence prevented either thing
happening, and instead his poverty actually
became the schoolmaster which produced
the great novelist. Yet the memories of
these days, while they provided many of his
best characters, were always painful to him,
and in later life he avoided the streets and
alleys that had been his early haunts; even
twenty-five years later he could only with
difficulty speak of those three years of his
apprenticeship in the shoe-blacking ware-
house, when his father, with the rest of the
family, were in Marshalsea—the debtor’s
prison. So blank were his evenings that at
last he remonstrated with his father and a
more suitable lodging was found for him
near Marshalsea, and in future days the
abode of Bob Sawyer.
	In 1824, when Charles Dickens was twelve
years old, through a small legacy and
the insolvent debtors’ act, John Dickens,
the father, was released from Marshalsea


[Column 1]
and to the great delight of the lad, Charles
was allowed to again attend school. Here
he found more congenial companionship
than Bob Fagin and the boys of his earlier
acquaintance. Here also he proved him-
self apt, but what he learned in school life
does not appear to have affected his work
like his necessary labors did. He entered
as a clerk the office of Edward Blackmore,
an attorney of Grays Inn, with whom he
stayed about two years. His master re-
cords that several incidents took place in the
office of which he must have been a keen
observer, “as I recognized some of them in
his ‘Pickwick’ and ‘Nickleby’ and I am
much mistaken if some of his characters had
not their originals in persons I well remem-
ber.” In some way he mastered shorthand
and at the age of nineteen gained admit-
tance to the gallery of the House of Com-
mons reporting in succession for the True
Sun, the Mirror of Parliament, and the
Morning Chronicle. It was doubtless dur-
ing his days as a newspaper reporter that
he gained his intimate knowledge of coach-
ing days and coaching ways which so charm
the readers of “Pickwick.”
	In December, 1833, Dickens made his first
appearance in print in the pages of the Old
Monthly Magazine, with “A Dinner at Pop-
lar Walk,” afterwards included in Sketches
by Boz under the name “Mr. Minns and his
Cousin.” That first appearance in print was
a great day for the world, and for him, who
walked Westminster Hall “because his eyes
were so dimmed with joy and pride they
could not bear the street, and were not fit to
be seen there.”
	It is not necessary to go into detail con-
cerning the issuing of different articles in
different magazines and papers, but from
this time on Dickens multiplied his literary
contributions, though for a time he contin-
ued as a reporter. It was a memorable time
in Dickens’s career when he issued his first
book. It was “Sketches by Boz,” in two
volumes, and at the same time “Pickwick”
began to appear in monthly instalments.
	On April 2nd, 1836, Dickens married
Catharine Hogarth, from whom in later
years he separated. Mr. G. A. Sala de-
scribes Dickens’s personal appearance at this
time in the following graphic manner: “Go
to Maclise’s canvas and ponder over that ex-
quisite delineation of the young man with
the long, silky hair, the fascinating smile,
and the marvelous clear and inquiring eyes;
that was the Charles Dickens who, in high
satin stock and double breast pin, in glossy
frock coat and velvet collar, in cut velvet
waistcoat and glistening chain was in the
early days of Queen Victoria’s reign one of
the best looking and best dressed young fel-
lows about town.”
	With complete publication of the “Pick-
wick Papers” fame came to Dickens with
overwhelming suddenness and he undertook
more work than he could well carry out,
having begun “Oliver Twist” and “Nicholas
Nickleby;” so immediately leaped into high
popularity the lad who so few years before
had followed a menial employment in a
blacking warehouse. Few advances of for-
tune have been so rapid, and it is memorable
that Dickens’s fame and popularity never
ceased nor waned during his lifetime, and
wherever he traveled or lived he was always
sought after and admired.
	As a man he was generous and lovable,
counting among his dearest friends the most

[Column 2]
notable men of the day. As a father he was
gentle, tender and companionable, his chil-
dren adored him. His daughter Mamie very
lovingly describes their home evenings, tell-
ing how her father sang and danced and
acted with his family like a child himself.
Dickens was not kindly disposed towards
other lands than his own, so as a traveler
he was not above criticism. Always ready to
criticize others, he was a Britisher through
and through. He made two trips to Amer-
ica and was received both times with open
arms and the greatest enthusiasm by the
American people, but after his return from
his first American tour, he very harshly and,
the Americans felt, unjustly criticized both
the country, the people and their customs.
Still he himself says that on his American
trip he felt nearer to being famous than ever
in his life; when on the street he was
stopped by a lady who said, “Mr. Dickens,
will you let me touch the hand that has
filled my house with many friends?”
	Dickens went on the continent for change
and rest many times, and began the writing
of some stories there, but was never able to
complete them there, saying that he missed
the numbers on the houses, the throngs of
people and other things that London pro-
vided and it seemed it was there among the
smoke and noise that he gathered the char-
acter studies which his genius portrayed.
Throughout his life Dickens had a great
fondness for the stage and many have won-
dered that he did not follow the profession
for he had undoubted ability in that line and
often appeared in amateur performances,
and in later life when he traveled through
the provinces and to American and gave read-
ings from his own work he charmed the
public with his readings and it is said he
made more money in that way than in writ-
ing. His work was increasing and he died,
as he had said he wished to, in the harness;
for it was while writing “The Alystery of
Edwin Drood,” in his fifty-ninth year. He
was buried quietly and privately as he had
wished in the Poets’ Corner in Westminster
Abbey, close to the monuments of Shake-
speare, Chaucer and Dryden.
	Dean Stanley, in speaking in Westminster
said: “He whom we mourn was the friend
of mankind, a philanthropist in the true
sense, the friend of youth, the friend of the
poor, the enemy of every form of meanness
and oppression. No English writer save
possibly Shakespeare, has drawn so many
characters that have become household
words.” Characterization was his chiefest
gift, whilst plot was his great weakness.
Most novelists find first a plot and weave
the story around it, bringing forth charac-
ters to aid and develop the story, while
Dickens’s books are almost entirely without
plot. Some critics claim that the lack of
plot is probably due to the fact that his nov-
els were published in serial form and as the
issues appeared he found new subjects and
characters; at any rate it was his way and
a true genius has to have a way all his own.
To some readers the lack of plot is very
acceptable, for one can pick up a novel of
Dickens and turn to almost any chapter and
be amused or touched just as the subject
may be; especially is this true of “Pick-
wick.” For instance, it is not at all neces-
sary to read the whole book to enjoy any-
thing so amusing as Sam Weller’s Valen-
tine, or Pickwick’s trial in the suit for dam-
ages by Mrs. Bardell, or Mr. Winkle’s

[Column 3]
elopement; in fact, if you are ever very tired
and somewhat depressed in spirit, pick up
“Pickwick” and read a few paragraphs—it
will certainly dispel the blues. He was a
master in every line—tragedy, pathos, com-
edy and farce. For tragedy read “Oliver
Twist;” for pathos, “Dombey and Son,”
“Little Dorrit” and “The Old Curiosity
Shop;” for farce, “Pickwick.” In descrip-
tive narrative Dickens has no equal. It is
sometimes said of him that his characters are
caricatures and that he greatly exagger-
rates everything; yet to draw caricatures is
a fine art of which one might well be proud.
That he exaggerated greatly is doubtful; he
had a keen perception of eccentricity and the
genius to draw it. The remark is often
made when some queer character is seen,
“How Dickens could have described him!”
As a matter of fact human life has many
phases, but there are few geniuses to por-
tray it. Another criticism of his work is
that he had few or no good women char-
acters. True, there are not many of the
heroic kind such as Shakespeare and Scott
portray; but for true womanliness there are
many, Bella Wilfer and Lizzie Hexam in
“Our Alutual Friend,” Agnes and Dora and
poor unfortunate Emily in “David Copper-
field.” That he drew his characters from
people he knew is well known, and “David
Copperfield,” his own favorite book, is found
to be almost a reproduction of his own life.
As his father is the original of Wilkins Mic-
awber, so is his mother the original of Mrs.
Nickleby, and again she seems to appear as
Mrs. Wilfer in “Our Alutual Friend”—not
an exaggerated character either, a woman
with some education and position, finding
herself in reduced circumstances naturally
resents anything like patronage from the
newly rich Mr. and Mrs. Boffin, especially
when she feels their wealth is obtained at
the expense of her daughter’s misfortune;
yet for two lovable, whole-hearted, inno-
cent-minded dear creatures commend me to
Mr. and Mrs. Boffin.
	Dickens was truly one of the world’s
great characters himself. We love the man
through his works, and his works through
the man. 					A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES.
	The nine-year-old daughter of the Gov-
ernor of Tennessee is said to be a “militant
suffragette,” while neither of her parents
claims to be in favor of suffrage. A twelve-
year-old school girl in Kansas is reported as
addressing large school meetings in behalf
of votes for women. A ten-year-old girl in
Los Angeles did heroic work for the cause
during the California campaign; and a little
twelve-year-old actress in New York holds
suffrage meetings between acts at the the-
ater.
	Fraulein Gertrude Wocker, of Berne,
thirty-three years old, has just taken up her
post as professor of natural philosophy at
the University of Leipsig, in Germany, hav-
ing been called there by the German gov-
ernment. She is the youngest accredited
professor at a university in Germany, and
the only woman to hold such a place. The
Countess von de Ladevaden was nominated
as professor at the University of Bonn, but
the university authorities refused to sanction
the appointment, so Leipsig wins the his-
toric credit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


YOUTH OF ZION.
Zion’s hope is most exultant
	In the future yet to be,
When the children of the cov’nant
	Write their deeds in history.
Sons and daughters with a mission
Foretold in prophetic vision.
Zion’s hosts must be triumphant
	In the battle for the right:
They are brave and strong and valiant;
	They must surely win the fight,
Maintaining righteousness and truth
In the full vigor of their youth.
In these mountain vales primeval
	They have grown to manhood’s prime,
Taught to shun the paths of evil,
	Filling life with deeds sublime;
Proclaiming equity and peace
Till tyranny and discord cease.
 In the shadow of these mountains,
	Tow’ring high t’ward heaven's dome,
Drinking deep from crystal fountains,
Flowing freely round the home,
Nature in her tenderest grace
Makes beautiful each lonely place.
These stalwart men from noble sires,
	Proudly bear the honored name;
Heroic deeds each life inspires,
	Treading paths that lead to fame;
Nor ever lay their armor down,
But win the prize and earn the crown.
			—Emmeline B. Wells.
Februaray 8, 1912.


[Column 1]
	AUNT MYRAM’S GARDEN.
		A TRUE STORY.
	Aunt Myram, as we called her, came
from England, where she had worked in a
stocking factory from the time she was old
enough to hold a bobbin. One day she heard
the call of a “new faith,” and accepting it,
came to Utah.
	In her heart she was a true child of na-
ture, and without realizing it, had craved a
bit of land of her own, all her life; when it
came to be her’s, that bit of a garden only
a few feet square, she loved it so fondly
and tended it with such care, had such a
pretty coaxing way, that the slips and seeds
grew to wonderful perfection in spite of un-
seasonable winds or weather.
	No matter how hard the day’s work had
been, Aunt Myram was never too weary to
weed and water that bit of garden; she
would say, if remonstrated with, “it rests
me to dig among the sweet violets and talk
to the mignonette and gilly flowers and
brings back memories of when, on a Sun-
day, I have seen just such old-fashioned
flowers in the farmers’ cottage gardens and
smelled just such fragrant violets, while
walking along the lanes and hedgerows of
dear old England.”
	Not that she regretted leaving the old
country, for in spite of the fact that her life
in America had been a hard one, with little
leisure or pastime, she kept the even tenor
of her way, looking back to the land of her
birth, with that kindly sweet remembrance
we have for our first teacher.
	Many the fragrant bouquets from that lit-
tle garden, that have graced my table in the
long ago and one of the visions I hope I
shall yet realize is to see dear Aunt Myram
again, radiant and sweet, “clothed with ce-
lestial grace,” among the flowers in the
gardens of Paradise.

[Column 2]
Within Aunt Myram’s garden grew
Flowers of every kind and hue;
Sweet Williams, pinks and lemon balm,
Wall-flowers and chrysanthemum,
Lilies white and lilies freckled,
Marigolds and tulips speckled,
London’s pride and four-o’clocks,
With larkspurs and tall hollyhocks;
Then honeysuckles, coral red,
And oh! the sweetest violet bed—
Why, you could scent them far away,
At morning’s dawn and close of day.
Bright morning glories, wet with dew,
Around her windows twined and grew;
And oh! the poppies that grew there,—
In Aunt Myram’s garden fair,—
think I see each silken head,
All white and pink and double red,—
Nodding and swaying in the light,
Making all nature seem more bright;
And sweet peas, too, the lovely things,
With clinging tendrils, fairy wings,
And mignonette and eglantine,
And daisies pied and columbine,
The sturdy Canterbury bell,—
And many more that I could tell,
All grew in sweet profusion there,
Nursed and tended with loving care.
But sweeter than all the flowers there
The little woman with silver hair
And bright black eyes and winning smile,
And gentle ways that cares beguile.
I see her there among her flowers,
As I sit thinking, in lonely hours.
Long since, Aunt Myram went away
Where flowers bloom in endless day;
But her nature sweet and brave and true,
A lesson left, for me and you:
Tho’ cares are many and days are gray,
Just tend the flowers along the way;
Skies will brighten and blossoms glow,
They need the showers to make them grow.
				MELL C. WOODS,
A tribute. March, 1901.


HOW THE BETSY ROSS FLAG WAS
			MADE.
	A rare collection of valuable historical
documents and relics, many of them faded
and frayed and all having played vital roles
in American history, is in the possession of
the Illinois Society of the Sons of the Amer-
ican Revolution, which maintains a library
and office at 30 North LaSalle street, Chi-
cago. Particularly interesting are the relics
that show the evolution of the American
flag, including reproductions of the first
American banner that floated on the Ameri-
can continent, and presenting all the links
in its development down to the more mod-
ern forms.
	The copy of the Betsy Ross flag which is
owned by the society was made in 1905 by
Rachel Albright, a granddaughter of Betsy
Ross, when she was over 92 years old. De-
scribing this and other relics in the posses-
sion of the society, James Edgar Brown
writes in the current issue of The Hamilto-
nian, official organ of the Hamilton Club of
Chicago:
	“In the latter part of May, 1776, General
Washington, accompanied by Colonel Geo.
Ross, a member of his staff, and by the
Hon. Robert Morris, the great financier of
the Revolution, called upon Mrs. Betsy Ross,
a niece of Colonel Ross. She was a young
and beautiful widow, only 24 years of age,
and known to be expert at needle-work.
They called to discuss with her the design
and manufacture of a national emblem, our
first starry flag. Up to this time almost
every regiment on sea and land had its own
particular flag, which fact often proved
most embarrassing to military officials.
	“Washington unfolded a paper on which
had been rudely sketched a plan of a flag of


thirteen stripes, with a blue field dotted with
thirteen stars. They talked over the plan
of this flag in detail, and Mrs. Ross noticed
that the stars which were sketched were
six-pointed, and suggested that they should
have five points. Washington admitted that
she was correct, but he preferred a star
that would not be an exact copy of that on
his coat of arms, and he also thought that
a six-pointed star would be easier to cut.
Mrs. Ross liked the five-pointed star, and
to show that they were easily cut she deftly
folded a piece of paper and with one clip
of her scissors unfolded a perfect star with
five points.
	“She set to work and the committee ap-
proved the finished flag. Mrs. Ross was
then instructed to procure all the bunting
possible in Philadelphia and make flags for
the use of Congress, Colonel Ross furnish-
ing the money.
	“The resolution adopting the flag was not
passed by Congress until the following year
and is dated June 14, 1777. A month pre-
vious, however, there is a record of an order
on the treasury in favor of Betsy Ross for
£14 12s and 2d, in payment of flags for the
fleet in the Delaware River.”


IN BALMY SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
			RIVERSIDE, Cal.,
				February 8, 1912.
	DEAR “AUNT EM:” One year ago today
I wrote you a few lines from Ocean Park.
Again today I send you a few lines in mem-
ory of my dear mother’s birthday anniver-
sary, and to show you that I also remember
and love you.
	The memory of many sweet things which
you did for mother when we had her with
us and the memory of lovely things said of
her later will always make me hold your
memory in affection.
	I hope you are feeling well and wish you
could be in this beautiful place and warm
climate of southern California during the
remainder of our winter. I love the beau-
tiful pepper-trees and the palms and the
verdure. There are some flowers, but not
a great many now; it is not just the season
for fullness of bloom. I have seen a won-
derful cactus garden not far from the Mis-
sion Inn. It was in a tiny park, just a
“breathing place.” Mrs. McClellan took
us over there. She knows Riverside pretty
well. Yesterday we were taken an auto-
mobile ride up Rubideaux mountain to the
cross placed there in memory of Fra Ju-
nipero Serra, who established the missions
in California. They were a day’s jour-
ney apart, beginning in San Diego, 1769,
and continuing to San Francisco. His great
work is much appreciated by Californians.
The sight of the orange groves, acres and
acres, hundreds of acres at least in one
great stretch, with their loads of ripened
fruit, is a sight to make the heart glad.
	It is now Friday morning. Yesterday
Mrs. McClellan and I were taken for a
ride in the suburbs by Mrs. Castleman, a
lady who lives here. We were present at
a pleasant dinner party in the evening, and
in the later evening Professor McClellan
gave a musical program on the great organ
in the music room. That room is built like
a cloister and contains many valuable relics,
besides the niches and statues and other re-
minders of the monasteries.
			ELIZABETH S. WILCOX.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	FEBRUARY, 1912


[Column 1]
GREETINGS AND CONGRATULATIONS.
	Beloved Sisters and Co-laborers: —
	We desire again in the new year that has
just begun to extend to one and all, officers,
teachers and members of the Relief Society
throughout the world, a heartfelt and loving
greeting, and to express our appreciation of
your labors in the great and grand organi-
zation.
	There is no limit to the work of charity
in the Relief Society. It is a daily and an
hourly occupation, of mind and body. How
to manage affairs so as to deal with all kinds
of people and all sort of cases that come up;
with sickness in its various forms, and death
also with needy families who not only have
to be supplied but also taught in many in-
stances how to manage, especially mothers
who do not understand economy in the
home; all this is not simply giving, it is
both learning and teaching what is best to
do under all varieties of circumstances.
	We are aware of your diligence and faith-
fulness, and know that you will make any
effort possible tending to further develop-
ment, spiritually and mentally. No more
possible effort could be made than has al-
ready been accomplished, among the sick,
the destitute. The charity that “giveth lib-
erally and upbraideth not,” our sisters mani-
fest day by day; they are diligent in search-
ing out the needy and relieving their wants;
uplifting the fallen and saving from the
powers of evil those who are tempted to go
into by and forbidden paths.
	We commend your labors in all good
works, and we are assured of the many sac-
rifices you must necessarily make to perform
these noble acts of charity and benevolence;
and we pray that you may realize abundant
blessings in your own households and joy
and satisfaction in your own souls that will
give you peace of mind to more than com-
pensate for all that you do.
	One of the missions given this society by
the prophet Joseph Smith himself, was to
save souls; and if we can succeed in per-
suading the thoughtless and wayward to
turn from evil, and repent and reform, we
shall have accomplished a most desirable ob-
ject; to rescue them from error and lead
them to the truth is to earn the joy of saving
those that were lost and are found again.
	When we contemplate what our sisters
have done in a material way it is indeed
wonderful. The houses that have been built;
the granaries for the storing of wheat, be-
sides assisting the bishops in building meet-

[Column 2]
ing houses, halls, etc., one marvels at the
multiplicity of the labor actually accom-
plished.
	We especially commend your labors with
the young mothers in helping and advising
them. We know that such assistance must
be valuable; and urge you as much as pos-
sible to nourish and cherish spiritual growth
and a testimony of the Savior that it may
be rooted and grounded in the mind of the
young, together with an abiding faith in the
divinity of the mission of the prophet Jo-
seph Smith and of the restoration of the
holy priesthood. Encourage the bearing of
testimony in your meetings and do not fail
to allow the dear sisters who are advanced
in years to have an opportunity to express
themselves, for it is a joy and comfort to
them, and a blessing to those who listen.
	The cultivation of faith in our children is
essential to salvation. Faith is a mighty
power. Let us not neglect it while we are
living in this great day and age when mighty
events are transpiring and still greater are
yet to come. We must never neglect the
faith that lies at the foundation of all power.
	On the seventeenth of March, of this year,
this great organization of the Relief Society
will have reached its seventieth anniversary.
During all those years the spirit of the gold-
en rule has been manifested by these heroic
sisters of charity who richly deserve the title.
It seems very fitting that in this coming an-
niversary we should celebrate the day in
some way never to be forgotten, giving it a
historical importance and significance
worthy of record in Church history.
As it will be the Sabbath day, the
services must necessarily be of a religious
nature, and the brethren will undoubtedly
respond to the wishes of the officers of the
society in lending any assistance possible to
render the occasion appropriate and credit-
able.
	In closing we acknowledge our gratitude
to you all for the love and good wishes ex-
tended to us, and for the co-operation given
to our efforts for enlarging the work in all
its various departments. We shall thankful-
ly remember all favors shown and all kind-
nesses manifested in whatever way, for
these things appeal to us and help us to exert
ourselves, enlarge our own hearts and exer-
cise the divine charity that never faileth and
the humility that brings down the blessings
of heaven upon all who can attain to that
sublime excellence, to “Love our neighbor
as ourselves.”
	Peace and love be unto you and joy in
all your labors.
	Faithfully your Sisters,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, President.
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, 1st Counselor.
		JULINA L. SMITH, 2nd Counselor.


[Column 1]
PROGRESS OF WOMEN IN THE LAST
		SEVENTY YEARS.
	In the course of the three score and ten
years since the Prophet Joseph Smith or-
ganized the Relief Society in this Church,
what wondrous things have been accom-
plished by women, not only in an organized
capacity, but in the various callings, pro-
fessions, and different lines of work! Vol-
umes might be written and yet the half can
never be told.
	Not only has woman enlarged her sphere
but the world has enlarged its capacity for

[Column 2]
the entrance of women into the various
spheres of activity and usefulness.
	It is the boast of the age that woman has
achieved fame and renown beyond the high-
est expectations of woman herself, or even
of the men who are liberal-minded in their
ideas and ideals of womanhood.
	Women astronomers have made discov-
eries in the science that have astonished men
who have been engaged for years in that
direction; women artists have been more
successful than heretofore and their work
is found to be more true to life.
	To be sure many women, as well as men,
think only of women as industrial workers
along mediocre lines; and when they ac-
tually compete with men, it is rather appall-
ing and some are not willing that women
should stand side by side with men.
	It is most wonderful what women have
done and the avenues that have opened for
the progressive advancement of heroic en-
deavor.
	To enumerate only a few of the many
who have accomplished great things would
be impossible in our little paper. In our
own small state there are hundreds of wom-
en that should be mentioned, but one gets
discouraged, in writing, to find that all can-
not be mentioned, therefore only those who
stand out apart from all others because of
some one achievement could possibly be
named. Even to mention a few rare in-
stances would be too much, but it is a matter
for thought and a subject never to be elim-
inated from the pages of history of the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries.
	There have been great women even in
ancient times that stand out singly and
rank side by side if not equal with men of
the same period. Certainly we, in these
last days, are not the beginners, but where
they singly may have been able to do much,
we who are organized are able to accom-
plish much more. A few women in the
past have led armies to battle, but in this
more highly civilized age things are vastly
different—organizations of women are pro-
moters of peace. The forces under the
control of women lead to higher civiliza-
tion and enlightenment.
	Of course women are anxious for better
advantages and especially for the better-
ment of the home. Today the nations of
the world stand for better government and
for domestic purity and culture beginning
in the home—and who can declare that
homes are not better and cleaner and purer
than they were in olden times?
	There are no real homes without moth-
ers and therefore the more perfect our
mothers in all lands, the nobler the children
are brought up and trained. Although there
are associations, schools and colleges where
women may receive special training, there
is nevertheless a vast number of untrained
and unskilled women who need attention
and this class is not so easily reached, and
perhaps the time will never come when all
that is desirable will be accomplished.
	After the organization of the Relief So-
ciety in the far west the women of the east
held a convention at Seneca Falls, where
the great army of suffragists were enthused
to enter the ranks and ask for the ballot,
believing it to be the best method of uplift-
ing the home.
	Among those great leaders who convened
on that momentous occasion were women
who afterwards devoted their entire lives,
as it were, to the uplifting of women and


they were modest Quakers who, without
money or powerful influence to aid the en-
franchisement, entered into the field of ac-
tion and worked their way upward and for-
ward. These women had the sublime cour-
age of their convictions, and were sustained,
when opposition was strong and powerful,
and even when persecution was cruel andmerciless. Among these great leaders of
this unpopular cause were women whose
names will stand on history’s pages forever
because of their indomitable courage and
work for humanity: Lucretia Mott, Susan
B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy
Stone, and many more.
	All over the civilized world the awaken-
ing of women has not only been noticeable,
but astounding. The great cause is moving
forward and a multitude are entering the
ranks; the world is becoming better, be-
cause the advanced education of women
means the higher civilization of the entire
globe. It means better homes and sur-
roundings and with all better lives are
higher anticipations, better conditions in the
state and nation and progress everywhere.
	Those who live today are to be congratu-
lated on living in these more propitious
times. In the professions what magnificent
advances have been made! We all know
how gentle and soothing is the touch of a
woman’s hand in sickness or in accident,
and helpfulness in the art of administering
to the sick and suffering, the dead and dy-
ing has been brought almost to perfection.
Florence Nightingale and Clara Barton
and scores of others pioneered the way
in this profession and even though we
should live to overcome all the ailments that
flesh is heir to in this world, still there are
accidents and always death while in this
mortal state. Not only have women in civ-
ilized lands felt the power of the woman’s
era, but in far-off oriental lands there
has come a vast change for higher thought;
a newer life of active service for the race
and especially for womankind.
	Punditta Ramabai has perhaps more than
any other led the way in India and created
an atmosphere of change of custom, that
must yet prove a blessing to many thou-
sand East Indian races. One reform already
achieved is that they cannot abuse young
widows as hitherto. One cannot contem-
plate these old traditions without horror.
	We might go on telling these significant
cases but it is only necessary to touch the
spring and each one who reads will think of
a hundred others of these immortal work-
ers who have sown the seed here and there
which will ripen into immeasurable fields of
bloom and scatter and produce new prod-
ucts to redeem the race.
	But to return to the beginning of this ar-
ticle: until the dawn of the new light that
came by revelation in this, the last dispen-
sation, awakening forces had not yet
operated in the way of woman’s enlighten-
ment and public advance.
	The key of knowledge was turned for
women and the darkness that had overshad-
owed the world began to disappear; like
rays of sunshine is has flooded the earth,
entered into the dark corners of the mind
and created a new era of intelligence that
will eventually be the uplifting of women
and the redemption of the world.

	The total number of women in the world
who now enjoy some measure of suffrage
is estimated at 15,514,647.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
	MARY A. BURNHAM FREEZE.

	A saintly woman, fair of face,
	Divinely tall, of wondrous grace—
	Thy life a triumph of completeness,
	Thy soul the essence of love’s sweetness.

	On the 21st of January, Sister Mary A. 
Freeze was called home to the mansions 
awaiting the faithful and the true. The 
death of this estimable woman is most keen-
ly felt by thousands who knew and loved 
her. Possessed of a strong and pleasing 
personality, always firm but gentle, she 
passed along life’s ways with its sorrows 
and joys with an unfaltering step. Per-
haps her greatest characteristic was her 
strong spirituality which one always felt 
when conversing with her. Faith in God 
and reverence for all the principles of the 
gospel and for those in authority seemed to 
be the two things that guided her most in 
the broad work of her life. 
	While Sister Freeze was identified mostly 
with the work of the Mutual Improvement 
Associations, she also sympathized and 
worked in harmony with all the other aux-
iliary organizations of the Church, feeling 
that all these needed the support of those 
who labor for the upbuilding of the king-
dom of God and the uplifting of humanity. 
She was never known to refuse a duty or 
betray a trust, and no woman could be more 
beloved or honored than was she. While she 
had not had the advantages of education 
that most women have today, she was a stu-
dent and a reader, and her natural intellec-
tual tendencies led her into paths of study 
of nature and of life, written and unwritten, 
that enriched and broadened and refined 
her. She was a lover of poetry, but only 
discovered that she possessed any ability for 
writing through a great trial which her 
faith helped her gloriously to overcome and 
turn into a blessing. The principle of plural 
marriage she accepted as a divine truth and 
lived it as such, making the patriarchal 
home life of her husband’s family a beauti-
ful example of unselfishness and the abode
of faith. She has told her loved ones that 
in answer to a prayer at this time, beautiful 
words in verse came to her as a blessing, 
and she arose in the night and wrote them 
on the cover of a book. The columns of 
THE EXPONENT have many times contained 
verses and articles from her pen, breathing 
forth some of the thoughts and sentiments 
of her rich mind; and it seems especially 
significant that the last previous issue of this 
paper contained perhaps the last poem she 
ever wrote. The beautiful verses themselves 
seem almost a prediction of her passing 
away. Speaking of the universal brother-
hood of man and that we are never alone, 
since Christ has called us His own, the last 
verse reads: 

Look up sister, brother, be glad and rejoice, 
For He hath made plain by His own precious
	voice,
That we are all kindred—then why feel alone, 
Since we hope soon to meet Him and kneel at 
	His throne! 

	Mary A. Burnham Freeze was born in 
Nauvoo, Illinois, October 12, 1845. Her 
father had been a minister of the Christian 
church but through the efforts of the elders 
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints was convinced of the truth of 
their message and was baptized. He 
did not live to come to the valley, but her 

[Column 2]
mother, with her family of little ones, made 
the journey across the plains and arrived in 
Salt Lake City in 1852. The family moved 
later to Richmond, Cache County, where 
Mary attained her young womanhood and 
prepared herself for school teaching. It was 
there she married James Perry Freeze in 
1863, and shortly afterward they made their 
home in Salt Lake City, where she spent all 
the remaining years of her life. She had 
nine children and she was a most devoted 
and loving wife and mother. 
	In 1871 she was appointed president of 
the Retrenchment Association of the Elev-
enth Ward, and when the stake organiza-
tions were effected, she was appointed pres-
ident of the Salt Lake Stake Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association, leaving 
that position when the stake was divided, to 
become a member of the general board of 
the Young Ladies, in which position she
visited the different stakes of Zion and 
taught and admonished the daughters of the 
Saints. She enjoyed to the utmost her work
in the Temple, having been called to work
in that holy place when it was first opened. 
She also did splendid missionary work in 
connection with the Bureau of Information 
on the Temple block. Sister Freeze was a 
charter member of the Utah Woman’s Press
Club, and took an active part in all things 
pertaining to the advancement of women 
and the welfare of her people. Hers was a 
pure, noble, lovable spirit, and wherever 
known she will be greatly missed and sin-
cerely mourned. 
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


MARY A. FREEZE.
Sleep, dear one, sleep, where tremulous the
		stars
	Keep silent watch for dawning of the day:
List! angel voices float through golden bars,
	That keep the way of life alway, alway.
					—Lydia D. Alder.


ORGANIZED CHARITY.
	When one considers the large number of
societies and organizations working along
charity lines, it is almost impossible to be-
lieve that any family or person within reach
of these organizations could be in want.
Volumes have been written lately of the
wonderful success of organized charity, all
showing how much more real help is given
in this way. Surely it ought to be a matter
of pride to the Latter-day Saints that their
own great organization, the Woman’s Re-
lief Society, was so far as known the pioneer
in organized charity in the world. On Mar.
17, 1912, this society will celebrate its 70th
anniversary; and during all those seventy
years the great thought of building up hu-
manity, of giving succor and comfort to the
poor, the sick, the down-hearted, has actu-
ated the hearts of that great body of women
who compose its membership. Quietly and
tenderly do they minister week in and week
out, following so far as possible the admo-
nition of the Savior not to let the right hand
know what the left hand doeth, but unsel-
fishly working day and night in this great
humane work.
	So much has been told to the public of
the dinners and assistance during the holi-
day season given through other organiza-
tions such as the Salvation Army, the Vol-
unteers, the Settlement society, the Ladies’


Aid, and others, that the general president
of the Relief Society thought she would
like to have an estimate of the work done
at that time by that part of her society
located in this city; and the following re-
ports were forwarded to her. As there are
sixty-two stakes in Zion, with a working
Relief Society in each, and as only five of
these are here reported, the readers of the
EXPONENT will be able to form some idea of
the great work done from the figures here
given:
	Granite Stake.—From reports handed in
from ten wards of this stake we compute
these totals: 175 Christmas boxes, valued
at $981; $709.30 in cash; 2,500 lbs. of flour,
1,800 lbs. of potatoes, besides clothing, slip-
pers, shawls for old ladies and 114 pairs of
blankets and quilts.
	Ensign Stake.—205 families supplied with
Christmas dinner; money given to each, also
a sack of flour, a bushel of potatoes, and a
monthly allowance.
	Liberty Stake.—Merchandise amounting
to $235.45, and cash, $206.40, was distrib-
uted among the poor at Christmas.
	Pioneer Stake.—Supplied 260 families
with Christmas dinners (chickens, roasts,
vegetables, candies and nuts); supplied fuel
and other necessities to the amount of $350,
and gave to six widows quilts and blankets.
	Salt Lake Stake.—In some of the wards
the bishopric have entire charge of the
work; in some wards the Relief Society as-
sists the bishopric, and in some wards the
Relief Society has entire charge of the
work. Where the latter was the case, the
donations were as follows: Cash, $731.67;
merchandise, $318.72; coal, 38 1/2 tons;
quilts, 12; besides this, considerable cloth-
ing and other sewing was done.
	We quote these figures as furnished, so
that people may know something of the
work of this organization. Of course, all
over the Church, in every stake of Zion, sim-
ilar work was done and still continues to be
done.
	May the Lord’s blessings attend these
noble workers!


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARY STEVENSON CLARK.
	On November 24, 1911, there died in
Farmington one of the noblest of the no-
ble band of pioneer women—Mrs. Mary
Stevenson Clark. A lonely feeling comes
as the ranks are thinned by the passing of
these brave spirits.
	Mrs. Clark was born in Gibraltar, Aug-
ust 29, 1825, where her father was in the
employ of the British government. When
she was a small child the family emigrated
to Albany, New York, where they resided
for a time. Later they moved westward,
continuing their journey at intervals until
they arrived in Utah. When she was a
child but five years of age the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was or-
ganized, and the little girl was baptized a
few years later. She passed through the
mobbings, sufferings and hardships inci-
dent to the early years of Church history.
A mob at one time made a raid upon the
home of her family, ejecting the people,
helping themselves to the contents of the


house, and taking all the clothes except
what were being worn. Her feet were bare
and they were cut and bleeding on the
rough and frozen ground.
	On May 18, 1845, she was married to
Ezra T. Clark. They came to Utah and
settled in Davis county in 1848, moving to
Farmington, April 3, 1850, where Mrs.
Clark lived for over sixty years. On May
18, 1895, Mr. and Mrs. Clark celebrated
their golden wedding. It was made a mem-
orable occasion by the gathering of friends
from different parts of Utah and from Cal-
ifornia and Illinois. Mr. Clark died Oct.
17, 1901.
	Mrs. Clark was the mother of eleven
children, seven of whom, all sons, survive
her. Amasa L. Clark, ex-mayor of Farm-
ington, is her youngest child. The late
Elder Edward Stevenson, who opened the
Church mission in Gibraltar and who was
known throughout the Church for his long
years of missionary work at home as well
as abroad, was her brother. Another broth-
er, James Stevenson of Farmington, over
81 years of age, is the last surviving mem-
ber of that family.
	The old Clark homestead was noted for
its hospitality, friends and even strangers
receiving the same kindly greetings accord-
ed to all the members of that large family.
Mrs. Clark’s characteristics were pa-
tience, unbounded charity in speaking of
others, and devotion to her religion. For
over twenty years she was a counselor to
President Susan Grant of the Davis Stake
Relief Society, and in every way she was a
consistent Latter-day Saint.
	Her funeral took place at Farmington,
November 28, 1911. The speakers were
President F. M. Lyman, Wm. V. Haight,
Sisters Susan Grant and Aurelia S. Rog-
ers, Wm. L. Rich of the Bear Lake Stake
presidency, Stake President J. H. Grant and
Bishop Robinson. Opening and closing
prayers were offered by President James A.
Eldredge and Edward I. Rich, and music
was furnished by the ward choir. The
house was filled to overflowing, and the
floral tributes were many and beautiful. The
grave was dedicated by her son, Bishop W.
W. Clark of Montpelier.
			ELIZABETH S. WILCOX.


LITERARY NOTES.
	Mrs. Samantha T. Brimhall Foley has re-
cently completed and issued in the Spanish
language a book of over one hundred and
seventy choice hymns, gleaned from our
best song books or from themes taken from
the Book of Mormon or other Church
works, including a historical preface ex-
plaining the origin of the Book of Mormon
and its connection with the establishment of
the Church in our day, and the promises of
God to the remnants of Lehi.
	The book breathes the testimony of the
gospel, and besides the rich rythmical accent
each piece is clothed in all its original beauty
by the sweet concord and musical tone of
which the Spanish language is so capable.
Mrs. Foley has spent over twenty-five years
of her life among the Spanish-speaking peo-
ple of Colorado, Arizona and Mexico, and
not only learned the language of books but
of the home life, conditions mental and
spiritual, as well as social customs of a peo-
ple who have long groaned under the weight
of superstition and false doctrine, but whose


souls are readily animated by the first ray of
divine light. Being the remnants of Lehi,
the blood of Israel is prone to assert itself
when correct doctrine is presented in an in-
telligent manner; and the author of this
book aptly asks: “Who shall say that this
new hymn book which is so replete with the
testimony of the gospel will not be a mighty
forerunner to open the way for the record
of their forefathers to find its way among
them?”


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		TETON STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the Te-
ton Stake was held at Driggs, Jan. 21, 1912.
Counselor M. H. Price presiding. Presi-
dent D. C. Driggs and Counselor J. D. Kil-
pack and a number of High Councilors and
Bishops were present, also officers and mem-
bers of the Stake Board.
	Meeting opened at 10 a. m. with singing
“Come, Come, ye Saints.”
	Prayer by Sister Sophia Rigby.
	Singing, “O, Say, What is Truth?”
	Address of welcome given by Sister H.
E. Stevens.
	Congregation sang, “We Thank Thee, O
God.”
	Victor Ward was reported by President
Amy Cherry, showed the Society alive to
their work.
	Solo by Julia Cherry of Victor.
	Sister Martha Little, supervisor of Gos-
pel work, said the sisters were taking a great
interest in the study of the Gospel. Coun-
selor Sarah A. Hulet reported the Driggs
ward in a flourishing condition. President
D. C. Driggs was pleased to be at this con-
ference, to get a glimpse of what is being
done by the sisters. Urged mothers to study
the Gospel that they may teach it to their
children.
	Duet by James and Effie Rigby.
	Elder J. D. Kilpack congratulated the sis-
ters on the works of charity that were be-
ing done. Also approved of the method of
storing their grain in the elevators.
	Closed by singing, “Nay, Speak No Ill.”
	Benediction by Mary E. Hulet.
	Afternoon session.—Opening exercises,
singing and prayer.
	On the stand were Stake Counselors J.
D. Kilpack and George S. Young, also six
members of the High Council and nine of
the Bishopric. All the Stake Board were
present except the president, Susie M. Wil-
son, who is away for the winter.
	Sister M. H. Price gave a report of the
work that is being done by the Stake Board.
	Piano duet by Larkin Price and Ethel-
win Griggs.
	Elder H. M. Warner gave an address on
“What Women are to This Age.”
	Duet by Sisters Ethel Butler and Ella
Rigby.
	Address, “What this Age is to Women,”
was given by Geo. S. Young.
	Trio by H. M. Warner, David Smith and
James Rigby. A talk upon “The Value of
Franchise,” was given by Sister Tacy Bux-
ton.
	Solo by Effie Beesley.
	Conference closed by singing, “Down by
the river’s verdant side.”
	Benediction by Sister Josephine Nielson.


We not only enjoyed a spiritual feast, but
a temporal was also enjoyed. All were in-
vited to partake of refreshment served in
the Stake office, and social greetings were
in order.
			MARY E. HULET, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OGDEN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Ogden Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Relief Society Hall at Ogden,
Utah, on Thursday, Jan. 18, 1912, at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m.
	Luncheon was served during the noon
period, when hand-shaking and social con-
versation were indulged in.
	There were present of the brethren: Pres-
dent Thomas B. Evans, of the Stake Pres-
dency, Elijah A. Larkin of the High Coun-
cil, Bishop James Taylor and Elder Dodd.
President Charles C. Richards sent regrets
for unavoidable absence, with a hope for a
successful conference.
	In the absence of Stake President Sarah
M. Taylor, who was excused on account
of illness, Counselor Isabel Foulger pre-
sided, and conducted the exercises. Coun-
selor L. Letitia Richards, members of the
Stake Board and local officers were on the
stand and a goodly number of the sisters
were present.
	After the opening exercises and the gen-
eral routine of business, reports were given
by the local associations; these showed im-
provement in methods of work; each asso-
ciation holds weekly preparation meeting,
where officers and class teachers meet and
prepare their work for the meetings of the
association. Sacrament meetings are being
better attended by the sisters and punctu-
ality is increasing. All expressed interest
in the work and a desire to improve along
all lines. The sick and the poor are well
cared for and the aged are made to rejoice.
	“Suggestions for present and future de-
velopment” was a subject well handled by
Sister Nancy M. Ferrin of the Eden Ward.
She emphasized the opportunity for good of
the visiting teacher, but showed that poor
teaching was a waste of time and energy.
	President Evans thought the word to
teachers was timely; surely misdirected talk
is a waste of time; we must be progressive
and full of zeal if we are to make our in-
fluence felt for good among the people. It
is better to have a heavy eye than a sad
heart; better to wear out than to rust out,
providing the wearing out is in the service
of the Lord. His counsels were fraught
with wisdom and if carried out will cer-
tainly tend to our growth and development.
	Bishop Taylor showed how incompetent
we are to judge another; how weak and err-
ing our judgment; better to extend charity
and leave judgment to Him whose right it is
to judge.
	Councilor Larkin spoke on the proper
training of children and urged a closer
watchcare over them and more congenial
companionship with them.
	Temple and Genealogical work were
touched upon, also other topics pertaining
to Relief Society work. A good spirit was
enjoyed throughout the conference and we
trust the teachings given will be prolific of
good.
				NELLIE BECRAFT, Sec.


BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The Bear River Stake Relief Society con-
ference convened at Garland Thursday, Jan.
11, 1912, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., President
Julia A. Richards presiding.
	General Relief Society President Emme-
line B. Wells and Sister Edna May Davis,
members of the general board, both of Salt
Lake City, and Sister Emelia D. Madsen of
Brigham City were present. The Stake
Presidency, four high councilors, four bish-
ops, two counselors and nine members of
the Relief Society Stake board were in at-
tendance.
	After opening exercises, remarks were
made by President Julia A. Richards, who
also read a summary of the work done in
the Stake since its organization in 1908 up
to Dec. 31, 1911. A financial report of the
stake was read by Treasurer Alice S. Lar-
son and duly accepted. The other speakers
of the forenoon session were Sisters Emelia
Madsen, Edna May Davis and our beloved
President Emmeline B. Wells, to hear
whom was indeed a great privilege, enjoyed
by all.
	At the close of forenoon session Coun-
selor Esther Evans stepped forward and
called the congregation to order, and stated
that Sister Celesta Hunsaker had something
she desired to say in behalf of the Relief
Societies of the Stake. In a few well chosen
words she presented President Julia A.
Richards with a beautiful toilet set. Pres-
ident Richards responded, expressing her
appreciation for the sisters’ manifestations
of love.
	At the conclusion of the meeting the con-
gregation was given the privilege of shak-
ing hands with President E. B. Wells.
	During noon hour lunch was served to
all present.
	At the afternoon session, after opening
exercises, Sister Eva J. Lillywhite gave a
very interesting talk on the subject of
“Home Work for Little Folks.”
	On account of President Richards moving
from this stake to Brigham City, she was
honorably released as President of stake
Relief Society with a hearty vote of thanks
for her faithful and efficient labors, and Sis-
ter Margaret W. Manning, who has acted
as stake secretary since the organization of
the stake, was unanimously accepted to fill
the vacancy, with Sisters Esther C. Evans
and Effie I. Welling as her counselors. The
position of stake secretary will be filled later
on.  All the board members remain the
same with the exception of Sister Eva J.
Lillywhite, who was honorably released, ow-
ing to other duties.
	The conference was then addressed by
Stake President Milton H. Welling, Sister
Edna M. Davis and President E. B. Wells,
encouraging the sisters in the performance
of their duties and the great blessings en-
joyed in the Relief Society work.
	After singing and benediction, conference
adjourned for six months.
	At the close of conference, Brother D. E.
Manning took the visiting sisters, in com-
pany with some of the stake officers, for a
drive to the sugar factory, then back to the
Garland library. They were shown through
the library, and Sister Wells expressed her-
self as being much pleased with the efforts
of the library board in establishing such a
well-kept and nicely-equipped library.
		MARGARET W. MANNING,
							Secretary.


SKETCHES FROM THE LIFE OF
	EUNICE BILLINGS SNOW.
(Concluded from page 23, No. 3, Vol. 39.)
	Not long after the death of the Prophet
Joseph, we left Nauvoo, since so many of
the leaders were being hunted and molested,
and with a party composed of the following
persons: Apostle Heber C. Kimball with
his family and myself. There was also a
number of the twelve with their families.
We moved across the Mississippi river and
encamped on a stream called Sugar Creek.
remained there about two weeks, but on
account of the cold and stormy weather, I
was taken sick and Brother Kimball advised
me to return to Nauvoo, and come on later
with my parents. The following spring of
1845, we started from Nauvoo, and traveled
as far as Council Bluffs with Vincent Shurt-
liff and his family. Leaving the last named
party at Council Bluffs, we continued our
journey to Punkau, a little Indian encamp-
ment, and the season being quite far ad-
vanced, it was deemed advisable to remain
there during the winter. My parents suf-
fered many privations and trials, but the
Indians appeared to be peaceable, and the
Saints in the party were very kind to us,
especially to my mother, whose health was
quite poor during that trying winter. One
instance, I remember well, of that severe
season: Our brethren had stacked all their
hay about the log fortification which had
been erected for our protection, when one
beautiful night the prairie became suddenly
ablaze with fire, from some cause, we knew
not what, and the flames were rushing
directly for our haystacks, which were in
a straight path for them. In case the stacks
caught, our fortification would surely go,
when through the mercy of the Lord, the
wind died down and the fire subsided, leav-
ing us safe, and our hay stacks unharmed.
Kegs of powder and other inflammable ma-
terial in the camp were pitched into a
stream called Running Water, in order to
protect the travelers that night from the
fury of a prairie fire. All material in the
rooms of the fort that was likely to burn
that night, was moved to a place of safety.
it is needless to say that the women and
children were frightened and had it not
been for my mother, who was acting as a
nurse, some of the women would have com-
mitted themselves to the rushing waters v
when the fire raged on the prairie. We left
Punkau, going to St. Joe in Missouri, to
get our outfit for the journey. Previous
to our going there, my brother, Alfred N.
Billings, went to St. Louis to work to earn
money for the purchase of our supplies, and
my mother was able to trade in St. Louis
for articles from the money which was due
my brother. This purchase was in cloth-
ing. He followed us to the valley the year
after we reached here. Mr. Warner, whom
I afterward married, was a carpenter and
he took contracts from the Indians in and
about St. Joe, to put up buildings for them.
This money was used in the purchase of
many of our supplies, especially wagons,
carts and provisions. We had a very good
outfit, so we did not suffer much on the
journey. Mr. Warner boarded with us
while crossing the plains. In the spring of
1847, we bade farewell to St. Joe, and pro-
ceeded to Winter Quarters, where we joined
the different companies of Saints. The first
company of pioneers was making active
preparations at that time to cross the plains,
and my brother, George P. Billings, was


[Column 1]
one of the early pioneers to cross the desert
with Brother Kimball. My brother came
back to Winter Quarters with Brother Brig-
ham Young and Brother Heber Kimball,
and in the spring my father, mother, my
brother, George P. Billings, Mr. Warner
and myself started for the Rocky Moun-
tains. My brother was not with us all the
time, since it was necessary for him to
drive Helen Mar Whitney’s carriage most
of the way. She was not feeling very well,
due to the fact that she had recently lost a
child. This sorrow so preyed upon her
mind that it was necessary to have some one
with her all the time to comfort and console
her. She was a very devout woman, and
the brethren, all of whom loved and re-
spected her, administered unto her and she
became more reconciled. My father was
captain of fifty in Brother Kimball’s com-
pany [-] when there was no wood to be had,
I gathered buffalo chips and as a child I
enjoyed it. I also took pleasure in cooking
the meals, since I had no other great re-
sponsibility. One time, while cooking sup-
per over a fire of buffalo chips on the
ground, my clothing took fire, and had it
not been for my brother George, who came
up with a bucket of water just then and
threw it over me, I should have been burned
to death. On the trip I rode when I pleased
and walked when I wished, so the journey
was not so tiresome to me. The present
president of the Church, Joseph F. Smith,
and his mother were members of Brother
Kimball’s party of fifty and the young Jo-
seph was old enough to drive a team for
his widowed mother. We fortunately had
two cows with us on our trip and usually
we had plenty of butter to supply our needs,
but sometimes the amount would fall short,
in which case we would buy a pound from
Sister Smith, young Joseph’s mother.
	One time there was a stampede of our
cattle, as they were coralled within our
wagons, and bursting over the wagons and
demolishing some of them, they killed a
small child. Such were some of the sad
events of our journey. We would see herd
after herd of buffalo, crossing our path,
and coming quite close to our wagons. In
fording the streams, we sometimes had
difficulty, but never any serious mishap. Of-
ten it would take our party a whole day to
cross a river, since the return would have
to be made to help the others over. In
several instances, my mother acting as
midwife, delivered women in confinement,
and there was no interruption to our jour-
ney, since mothers and babes continued the
trip right along with us.
	But oh! the joy and pleasure I shall never
forget when we reached a hill, from the
summit of which we caught our first view
of the Salt Lake valley, the promised land.
When we reached the valley, the teams
were halted, and the people all took up the
shout of hosannah, which was repeated
three times.. We camped with the rest of
the party in the valley of the Great Salt
Lake, and my father made arrangements to
get a city lot. This lot, upon the laying
out of the city afterward, was found to be
located in the Sixteenth ward. We re-
mained in Salt Lake City for about two
weeks, when we moved to the mouth of
North Canyon, about eight miles north of
the city, to what was then known as Ses-
sions settlement. There were four families
living there, after we arrived, two Barthol-
omew families, a Tyler family, and my

[Column 2]
father, Titus Billings’, family. The people
put up their little structures of logs as rap-
dly and easily as they could, since they did
not expect to remain there very long. On
occasion, we would attend meetings in the
Sessions settlement, and as far as we could,
all the families would go. We stayed there
all winter, and in the spring of 1849, on
April 4th, Mr. Warner and I were married.
My uncle, Patriarch Morley, performed
the ceremony at my father’s house. About
June 1st, we moved back to Salt Lake City,
where my father and my husband sawed
logs to prepare the boards for our first
dwellings. They made the shingles by hand
and we enjoyed the distinction of having
the first shingled roof in the place. We lived
in a tent for six weeks before moving into
our house. We had a grand celebration of
the 24th of July. There were twenty-four
young ladies, representing the occasion.
Sister Amanda McEwan led them. They
were all dressed in white, some of them
wore sashes of red, and some, of blue, and
they represented the national colors. We
had no sooner moved into our house and my
parents were preparing to enjoy it, and we
had taken our first breakfast there in the
fall, when we went to conference on the
6th of October, and there was a call issued
from the stand to my uncle, Patriarch Mor-
ley, my father, Titus Billings, my husband,
Brother Warner, Brother Charles Shum-
way, and others to go to Manti to open up
a settlement there. The spot where the city
of Manti now stands consisted only in those
days of sage brush and Indians. The meet-
ings held very little interest for me the rest
of the day, since I was thinking how sad it
would be for us to go into a new section
where there were only sage brush and In-
dians. When we reached home, my father
asked my mother what she thought of our
call, and she answered that we had never
refused a call:yet, and it was too late to do
so now, but I expressed the opinion that I
did not want to go, and, moreover, that I
would not go, to be eaten up by the Indians.
was not feeling very strong, and the situ-
ation looked very dismal and gloomy to
me. My Husband looked at me in surprise
when I ventured the remark that I would
not go and he said quietly, “Oh, I think
you’ll go.”
	Well, I did, and I do not think I have re-
gretted it. I believe that if we had not
obeyed the counsel and done, our duty, we
would not have received as many blessings
from the Lord as we did.
	The house which my father built in Salt
Lake City was sold to Brother Heber C.
Kimball, and with the money obtained from
that, we were enabled to fit out for the
trip to Manti.
	After living in Manti for a number of
years, my father and mother moved to
Provo, Utah, and I followed with my five,
living children, in the course of a few
months.. I then went to live with my par-
ents and I was glad to have a few months
of quiet and rest after the exciting times in
Manti. With the exception of a year, which
spent working in the temple at Manti, and
which I enjoyed very much, I have lived
almost uninterruptedly in Provo. My days
in this city have been spent in quiet , and
leisure among my children and friends. I
joined the Parents’ Class of the Fifth ward,
also the Relief Society of the Fifth ward,
as it was then the Fourth ward, and took an
active part in the discussions of those or-

[Column 3]
ganizations, and for a while I was a teacher
in company with Sister McEwan in the
Relief Society. In the early days the contri-
butions for the Relief Society were in the
form of soap, meat, flour and other heavy
articles. So we were often burdened with
heavy loads when we were going around
in our line of duty.
	I have forty-eight grandchildren, and
thirty-three great grandchildren, my oldest
great-grandchild being fourteen years old.
have two sons living in Provo, two in
Castle Valley, Emery county, one daughter
in Provo, and one in Salt Lake City. I
am living at present in Provo with my old-
est son, John A. Warner. My parents
passed away in Provo they are buried in
the cemetery there.
	I should like to revert here to my work
in the Manti temple. I had been very sick,
and when the sisters came to wash and
anoint me, they could get no testimony as to
whether I was to live, or not. So that
night I prayed fervently to the Lord to show
unto me whether I should live or die, and
had a dream which to me clearly pointed
the way as to what I should do. I dreamed
that I was in an unfinished house, standing
on a plank with empty space below it. I
saw my mother enter the room, and since
was quite chilly, she took her cloak and
threw it over my shoulders. When I remon-
strated, she merely smiled and passed on.
Soon a large dog entered through the same
door which had admitted my mother, and
jumped upon me, arousing me to full con-
sciousness. Then I knew what it all meant.
knew that I was to live and that the open
unfinished house meant that my work was
ncomplete and I concluded that I must go
forward and complete it.
	All my days, since embracing this Gospel,
have tried to live my religion and to be
strong and faithful. I trust that I may ever
live faithful and that Imay endure to the
end. I have been wonderfully blessed, and
am now in my eighty-second year, with the
knowledge that I suffer very little with any
of the special senses, my hearing being very
slightly impaired. I have very little bodily
nfirmity except sometimes a slight ache in
the lower limbs, but I can walk about
through the city with considerable ease. I
attribute all the power which I now pos-
sess to the influence of the holy spirit,
which has not deserted me, and I believe
that I have been able to keep in close com-
munion with that holy spirit through the
power of prayer which I have exercised un-
ceasingly.
			EUNICE BILLINGS SNOW.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	President Thomas of Bryn Mawr is
scheduled to speak to the Rhode Island
Branch of the Association of Collegiate
Alumnae on suffrage. This is the first time,
to the knowledge of the writer, that the
subject will be presented to the college
women of Rhode Island as a body. Good
results are anticipated by the College Equal
Suffrage League.
	A California judge, in finin[---]an
$10 for speeding in her auto, [---]s
saying that if she had not bee[---]e
would not have punished her. We know of
no State where women are legally exempt
from punishment for this or any other of-
fense because they lack a vote.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 40.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1912.					No. 7.


[image of a woman]
		MOTHER

[Column 1]
Speechless I stand before her shrine,
Enough to know that she is mine.
Garlands of love let me entwine,
A chaplet for a soul divine.

[Column 2]
Whilst others costly gifts may bring,
And loud and long her praises sing,
And honors rare are proffering,
Love is my only offering.

[Column 3]
Perhaps some time we’ll fondly trace
In memory’s book her wondrous grace.
Ah! Then my gift will claim its place
Love—hallowed time can ne’er efface.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EMMELINE B. WELLS, LIT. D.
	The year 1912 among other remarkable
things has a twenty-ninth of February thus
giving our dear “Aunt Em” a birthday.
It is quite customary for a family to cele-
brate the coming of age of one of its mem-
bers and this rule was strictly adhered to
by the people of Utah in the coming of
age of their gifted and loved citizen Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, who though eighty-
four years old was permitted on this day to
celebrate her twenty-first birthday. It
would be almost impossible to tell the many
expressions of love and admiration sent
to Mrs. Wells during the weeks preceding
and following her anniversary. Beautiful
letters from stake presidents of Relief Soci-
eties throughout the Church, cards and
letters from friends in distant lands, tele-
grams from distinguished people,came pour-
ing in upon her until she was almost over-
whelmed with such evidences of admiration.
DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.
	On Saturday the 24th of February the
Daughters of the Pioneers devoted their
regular monthly meeting to her honor, the
program including a sketch of Mrs. Wells’s
social and home life by her daughter Mrs.
Annie Wells Cannon, and readings from
her poems by her granddaughter Miss
Katharine Cannon. At this meeting the
Summerhays quartet sang the beautiful
song “Mother o’er Israel” composed in Mrs.
Wells’s honor by Prof. Edward P. Kimball.
The meeting was presided over by Mrs.
Elizabeth R. Wright, the president, who
also paid a tribute to Mrs. Wells. The
honored guest responded in a very quaint
and pretty speech and related some of her
pioneer experiences. The Relief Society
parlors in the Bishop’s building were beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion and refresh-
ments were served during a social hour
after the program.
	UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	On the evening of the 28th of February
Mrs. Wells was guest of honor at a splendid
entertainment given by the Utah Woman’s
Press Club of which club Mrs. Wells is
founder and honorary president. The
auditorium in the Bishop’s building was
the scene of this occasion, where gathered
a large and representative number of Mrs.
Wells’s friends and admirers to do her honor.
The large room was beautifully decorated
in the national colors with clusters of small
flags about the room and two large ones
at the head of the building forming a dra-
pery for a life size portrait of the guest
of honor which occupied a central space.
Flowers were everywhere in evidence, there
were palms and potted plants and vases
of jonquils, roses and carnations. The
event was presided over by Dr. Jane Skol-
field, president of the club, and the numbers
on the program were introduced by the
secretary, Mrs. Blake.
	A most delightful part of the evening
were the musical numbers furnished by
one of Utah’s most talented daughters, Mrs.
Maggie Tout Browning, who not only sang
her numbers on the program but very hap-
pily responded to the demands of the en-
thusiastic audience and sang a number of

[Column 2]
ballads, “In my Garden,” “The Rosary” and
others.
	“My Mountain Home So Dear,” com-
posed by Mrs. Wells, was the first number,
a quartet, rendered by Fred C. Graham,
Julian Thomas, Jennie Skolfield and Mrs.
Browning.
	Prof. Kimball’s song by the Summerhays
quartet was repeated on this occasion by
request.
	On the stand with Mrs. Wells and the
officers of the Press Club were Governor
William Spry, ex-Governor Thomas, Hon.
B. H. Roberts and other noted people, while
the audience included prominent club wom-
en, educators and literary people of the city.
	In Governor Spry’s address he said that
Mrs. Wells, because of her labors in many
directions for the welfare of the state, be-
longed to the state, for her interest in hu-
manity had been limited by neither creed,
rank, nor politics. “It is her faith, her
dreams, her efforts put into practice
throughout her long life which have helped
to put you and me where we are today.”
	Hon. B. H. Roberts paid a humorous and
pretty eulogy to the guest of honor, saying
he had been watching the career of “Aunt
Em” through her teens and was glad to 
see her emerge from them and arrive at
her majority. He hoped her maturity would
reap the fruits of her youthful dreams
and efforts and that she might live to see
every dream fulfilled. Mr. Roberts said he
would take the liberty of bestowing on
“Aunt Em” a universal degree, for she be-
longed not only to the state but had inter-
national claim both for sympathy and for
admiration, for her work had been of world-
wide scope in aim and effort; he wished
therefore to confer the degree of D. E. W.
L.T., which interpreted means, “Dear Em-
meline, we love thee.” This sentiment
was greeted with great applause.
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon read excerpts
from Longfellow’s poem, “Morituri Salu-
tamus,” a favorite poem of her mother’s,
and Miss Nellie Shipp recited one of Mrs.
Wells’s poems, “My Dear Old Garden.” The
Press Club presented Mrs. Wells with a
basket of roses, the presentation being made
by little Miss Done.
	Governor Thomas and others took part in
the program, after which refreshments were
served.
	AT THE BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	Another part of the paper tells of the
dinner party given by President and Mrs.
Julina L. Smith at the Beehive House on
the afternoon of the 29th. After this func-
tion the General Board of the Relief Society
became hostesses at a large reception in the
auditorium of the Bishop’s building which
was the crowning event of the festivities in
honor of this distinguished lady.
	RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION.
	On the evening of the 29th the General
Officers and Board of Directors of the Re-
lief Society held an open reception in honor
of their president, Emmeline B. Wells.
	A very large number of friends and rela-
tives gathered on this occasion which was
quite informal and very pleasing.
	The event was distinguished by some
gems of speech and literary thought, many
of them quite humorous, but the event of
the evening was the conferring on Mrs.
Wells the degree of Doctor of Literature by
the Brigham Young University. Among the
guests were the First Presidency of the
Church, members of the Church board of
education, and members of the faculty of
the Brigham Young University, including
President Brimhall. Prof, and Mrs. Keeler,
and Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry. Ex-Governor
Wells acted as master of ceremonies and
after a felicitous opening speech recited the
following original jingle which together
with Mr. Whitney’s very interesting and
reminiscent speech we reproduce at the re-
quest of many readers.
	JUST OUT OF HER TEENS.
Our dear young Aunt Em is just out of her
	teens,
Now hearken, my children, and learn what it
	means.
She’s had twenty-one birthdays—that’s reck-
	oned a score,
And so she should be twenty-one and no more.
How comes it then, children, that history tells
She has long been the widow of Daniel H.
	Wells?
Has daughters who own up to forty or more,
And children and grand ones and great ones
galore?
She published her poems way back in the
	eighties,
And two of her girls are older than Kate is;
For full forty years she has had no opponent
As writer in chief for the Woman’s Exponent.
All over the world, attending conventions
And lifting her voice for woman’s contentions,
Julia Ward Howe and Anna H. Shaw
And Susan B. Anthony all called her “Ma.”
The pioneers crossed the plains very early,
Yet in one of their trains was our dear little
	girlie;
And the people who lived back in that gener-
	ation
Seemed to regard her with some veneration.
And after the days of the “Mormon” hegira,
in Kanosh, Koosharem, Kanab and Kanarrah,
She founded and organized women’s societies—
Like the pickles of seven and fifty varieties.
The oldest inhabitant recalls with some sport
How he took her to parties down in the Old
	Fort,
How she danced and cavorted and ne’er would
	surrender,
So long as the fiddle was played by Hop
Pender.
The Salt Lake policeman at night on his beat
Knows perfectly well those tired young feet;
She’s the girl without rubbers, stays out until
	two,
Goes home in a hack to East Waterloo.
And there isn’t a boy to a grasshopper knee
	high,
In Manti, Moroni or Nephi or Lehi,
Who wouldn’t stoop down and kiss at the hem
Of that old Paisley shawl that covers Aunt Em.
And who is the man so bold and heroic
Who could stand up and say like a blooming
	old stoic
That evidence counts her age eighty-four,
When of birthdays she’s had but a limited
	score?
Now hearken, my children, and you’ll surely
	see
The good Lord above us knows better than we.
He said to Aunt Em as she came down the
	pike,
“You are going to live just as long as you like.”
So he gave her one birthday in four, don’t you
	see,
And that explains all the controversy.
So hearken, my children, and learn what it
	means,
This dear old young girl is just out of her
	teens.


[Column 1]
	Junius F. Wells also paid a tribute to
“Aunt Em,” expressing the affection with
which the Wells family regarded her, one
of his allusions being that “Aunt Em” had
married Bishop Newel K. Whitney, which
was no doubt the reason that the Bishop
Whitney of today was so famous a poet.
	H. G. Whitney, who was asked to repre-
sent the Whitneys, gave a five minute ad-
dress, largely reminiscent in character, of the
early days passed in “Aunt Em’s” cottage
on State street, almost a second home to
the Whitneys. He praised any movement
that looked to the payment of tributes to
the pioneers while they were still in the
flesh, and said more funeral orations ought
to be delivered in advance of the funerals.
Speaking of the tie between the Whitneys
and Wellses, he said:
	“I remember that when we were very,
very young, I was aware that there was a
family tie of some remote kind that united
us with ‘Aunt Em’s’ branch of the Wells
family, and my brother Orson and I used
to feel a great pride in it, I remember,
indefinable as it was to us. I think we re-
garded the Wells family in the light of a
great clan, something like the McGregors
of Scotland, with ourselves as humble off-
shoots, and ‘Aunt Em’ the link that con-
nected us. I know that the great domain
of the Wellses as it stretched, to my boyish
eyes, over a wide expanse, south of the City
Creek wilds where we Whitneys ranged,
seemed vast and illimitable. To our childish
fancy, the great house that stood on the
Templeton corner was a sort of a huge,
feudal castle, containing an army of servi-
tors, with Brother Snarr as the dreaded
chief warder of the tower.”
	He also mentioned the meetings of the
old Wasatch society that met in “Aunt
Em’s” home, at which she and Squire Wells
were interested listeners. He concluded by
saying that he could not do justice to the
subject of “Aunt Em” if he confined him-
self to prose, and with her permission he
would lapse into poetry with the following:
Proud Wellses, tho’ you claim Aunt Em,
	Your title is the worst,
Your mortgage is a second one,
	The Whitneys hold the first.
So while we’re willing you should share
	Our claim—and won’t oppose it
Please keep that mortgage well in mind,
	Lest some day we foreclose it.
	This couplet was greeted with laughter
and applause and so moved one of the Wells
clan in the audience (Rulon S.) that he
turned out the following impromptu which
he tendered “Aunt Em” at the end of the
session.
	The Whitneys claim a prior right,
		And threaten to foreclose,
	The adjudication of this case
		We’ll leave to Him who knows;
	But this I know and do maintain,
		That you are ours pro tern,
	And in the great eternity
		You’ll always be “Aunt Em.”
	Bishop Orson F. Whitney made some re-
marks and recited two poems. Elder J.
Golden Kimball followed with a characteris-
tic talk on why he loved “Aunt Em.” He
said, “I love Aunt Em because of her can-
dor, truthfulness, honesty, integrity and loy-
alty to her friends, the Church of Jesus
Christ and her fellow beings. She is big

[Column 2]
hearted and generous in her sentiments. The
golden rule is her great morality and
daily life and all its wonderful problems her
great theme. She is not narow minded, in-
tolerant or bigoted, because she has an en-
lightened mind. She is just a great, big-
hearted little woman and I love her because
can’t help it.”
	Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury paid a
loving tribute to Mrs. Wells and said she
was honored in being present and having the
opportunity of voicing her admiration for
one whom she considered a gifted and re-
markable woman.
	President Lund reviewed some of the
labors of the honored guest and eulogized
her wonderful life work, while President
Penrose gave a brief review of her life in a
humorous and appreciative way dwelling
somewhat on her interest in vital public
questions, especially the suffrage for which
she had made a gallant fight.
	The chief feature of the occasion was the
conferring of the degree of Doctor of Litera-
ture by the Brigham Young University of
Provo, the ceremony being conducted by
President Joseph F. Smith, who in a short
address recited the history of the accordance
of the degree, the first to be given any woman
in the state. They felt that she had won this
distinction through her attainments, and
while it added nothing to her individual
gifts, already in evidence, yet it marked the
appreciation in which they were held. He
took pleasure therefore in handing to her
the document conferring the degree.
		THE DEGREE.
	Brigham Young University,
	Provo City, Utah, U. S. A.
	In recognition of the eminent literary
attainments of Mrs. Emmeline Blanche
Wells and upon recommendation of the
General Church Board of Education, and of
the Faculty of Brigham Young University,
the Board of Trustees, by virtue of the au-
thority vested in it, confers upon her the de-
gree of Doctor of Literature with all the
rights, privileges and honors thereunto ap-
pertaining.
	Given this Twenty-ninth day of February,
in the year of our Lord the Nineteen Hun-
dred Twelfth, and of the Brigham Young
University the Thirty-sixth.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH,
		President of the Board of Trustees,
			GEORGE H. BRIMHALL,
				President of the Faculty.
	As the words were spoken the entire
audience rose, and many eyes were moist
during the impressive scene, as Mrs. Wells
responded, wearing the cap and gown. She
expressed her deep feeling at the honor ac-
corded her, and said that it meant much to
her not only as a personal tribute, but as a
matter of honor to her sex. It had always
been a matter of regret to her that great
educational institutions had withheld this
distinction from women, and she hoped that
this would have its influence in showing that
Utah withheld nothing from the women of
the state.
	Mrs. Wells also gave a number of per-
sonal reminiscences.
		AN UNIQUE HONOR.
	No such honor has ever been done a wom-
an before in Utah or indeed in the West;
it is rare anywhere in the world. Yet it
is most fitting that Utah, where equal suf-

[Column 3]
frage prevails and has been popular for
years, should be the first of new common-
wealths where such high recognition should
be given to so thoroughly worthy a recipient
as in this instance.
	The addresses and exercises of the eve-
ning were interspersed with delightful musi-
cal selections, Miss Romania Hyde render-
ing beautiful violin numbers, and a quartet
composed of Geo. D. Pyper, Horace Ensign,
H. G. Whitney and J. D. Spencer giving
two songs.

	All during the day letters, telegrams and
gifts, the latter mostly in the way of flowers,
were showered upon “Aunt Em.” Among
the gifts was a handsome white brocaded
silk gown from the Relief Society Board, a
handsome silk lace scarf from the Oneida
Stake Relief Society and an embroidered
hand bag made of Utah silk from the Box
Elder Stake Relief Society. So many hon-
ors and so much love would almost over-
whelm any one and dear little “Aunt Em”
can only say in reply to it all, “I love you
every one, and my service is yours and our
Father’s in Heaven.”
	TELEGRAMS AND SENTIMENTS.
“There are moments of life that we never
	forget.
Which brighten, and brighten, as time steals
	away;
They give a new charm to the happiest lot,
And they shine on the gloom of the lone-
	liest day.”
			TELEGRAMS.
	Following are a few of the telegrams and
sentiments, the former received on the 29th
of February, the latter received some on that
day and the rest within a few days subse-
quently. There were so many of these in
the form of poems, letters and expressions
of good will that it has been found quite
impossible to use them all.
			ALICE MERRILL HORNE.
					OGDEN, UTAH.
President Emmeline B. Wells,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	I cannot refrain from extending my
congratulations and best wishes upon this
anniversary of your birth. . I sincerely hope
you may live to cheer, comfort and bless
your family and the sisters as long as life
is a pleasure to you, and that your last may
be your happiest days.
				JANE S. RICHARDS.
		OCEAN PARK, CAL., Feb. 29, 1912.
	Love and congratulations; may each suc-
ceeding birthday be happier than the last.
			CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS.
				WASHINGTON, D. C.
	Allie joins me in sending on this, your
natal day, greetings, love and best wishes.
Peace, joy and God’s blessings be yours as
long as you live.
					REED SMOOT.
			NEW YORK, Feb. 29, 1912.
	May you be spared to your friends to
continue the good work done for them and
Utah, in health and happiness.
			BERTHA G. M. BAMBERGER.
		OCEAN PARK, CAL., Feb. 29, 1912.
	Congratulations and best wishes on this
day of days. 
				ELIZABETH S. WILCOX.
		(Continued on page 54.)


EMMELINE B. WELLS, LIT. D.
		(Continued from page 51.)
			SENTIMENTS.
	The following were sent for the Birthday
number of the Exponent:
	Oriental birthday greetings.
	There are three crowns, of the Law, the
Priesthood and the Kingship; but the
crown of a good name is greater than them
all.
	LYDIA M. VON F. MOUNTFORD.
	A Chinese proverb says, “A big heart is
better than a big house.”
	My mother’s home was not large enough
to take in all the world, except through the
sympathy of her big heart.
	Everything for the uplift of humanity
has, ever and always, claimed her ardent
sympathy and capable, skillful co-operation.
	To raise the lowly, cheer the downheart-
led, give freely of her substance to the poor,
comfort the bereaved, has been to her
through life a work of love.
	Such works are “quick and mighty,” good
fruits have and shall follow such sowing,
for the LAW of LOVE reigns King of all.
				MELL. C. WOODS.
	Wallace, Idaho, March 8, 1912.
	Over many difficulties triumphant; amid
the checquered scenes of life showing true
fortitude; possessed of the great charac-
teristic principle that brought Abraham
blessings, Faithfulness; above all, an un-
ceasing believer and worker in the Church.
Such is “Aunt Em” Wells.
		MARGARET A. ROMNEY,
	Pres Relief Society, Ensign Stake
 
	May every year be bright and clear,
	And free from clouds of sorrow.
				PAULINE PACE,
	Prest. Relief Society, Carbon Stake.
	A sentiment accompanying a beautiful
handbag:
Sister Emmeline B. Wells.
	Knowing of your interest in our silk
ndustry, we made you this home-grown,
home-made silk hand-bag, thinking you
would better appreciate, and we could bet-
ter express by the work of our hands, the
deep love of our hearts for you.
		SARAH P. STOHL, President.
	The officers of the North Sanpete Stake
unite in sending greetings of love for our
honored and worthy President Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, who has for these many years
served so faithfully in the cause of love
and charity.
	WILHELMINA H. ERICKSEN, Prest.
	President Emmeline B. Wells, a woman
blessed with high intellectual and executive
ability. A President well fitted to preside.
A kindly mentor who carries conviction,
with advice and admonition.
		CELESTIA YOUNG PACK,
			Prest. Summit Stake R. S.
	May you live long to bless the sisters
that look to you as their beacon light.
		CHRISTENA SORENSEN,
	President R. S., Sevier Stake.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 29, 1912.
	DEAR SISTER: May your life of activity
and noble deeds ever be kept in sweet re-


[Column 1]
membrance and praise by all good people
in future ages.
	PRESIDENCY OF LIBERTY STAKE.
	May the Lord bless you with health and
strength, and with His Holy Spirit to com-
fort and sustain you, that you may be able
to perform the arduous duties of your high
calling, is the sincere wish of
		Your loving Sister,
			MARIA R. HYDE,
				President of Pocatello Stake.
“The Lord bless thee and keep thee,
The Lord make His face shine upon thee,
And be gracious unto thee.”
				—Numbers vi, 24, 25.
	God bless you! so I’ve wished you all
	Of brightness life possesses;
	For can there any joy at all
	Be thine, unless God blesses?
	MINERVA RICHARDS KNOWLTON,
				President Davis Stake.
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
					March 3rd, 1912.
“Aunt Em” is a woman!—And to be
A woman meaneth flower, star, queen—
And more, much more besides.
				MAUD MAY BABCOCK.
	Not often are we privileged to congratu-
late a friend who has at the age of 84 only
seen 21 birthdays. But how swiftly the
years have flown with their changes of glad-
ness and sorrow, burdens and happiness,
care and tranquilities! But on looking
back, may you only see the hilltops of joy,
forgetting the vales of trouble and dis-
quietude.
		OFFICERS OF JUAB STAKE R. S.
	OUR DEAR SISTER WELLS: Among the
many emblems of love and esteem that will
reach you, on this your natal day, we wish
to place ours.
	We would add, too, our weak words of
appreciation of your worth, and sincerely
wish you every good thing a life so exem-
plary as yours deserves.
	In years you are past the allotted time,
and if it, indeed, be true “that how long
we live, not years but deeds tell,” you have
truly lived a long time.
	Your life has been a rich one, and the
noble deeds so characteristic of you will
remain never failing memorials of your

[Column 2]
labors among women. With a feeling of
pride we look to you as leader of our great
Relief Society organization, and trust that
for many years you will still be our beacon
light.
		ONEIDA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY.
		ST. JOHNS, ARIZ., Feb. 29, 1912.
	DEAR AUNT EM: In memory of the life-
long friendship which existed between your-
self and my dear grandmother, Sister Ad-
dison Pratt, and her daughters, I beg leave
to offer my love and congratulations on
this, your twenty-first birthday.
	In thinking of your long and useful life,
I am reminded of the beautiful words of
Ella Wheeler Wilcox:

“The prayerful heart breathes through the face
	Like perfume through the rose.
No art can imitate the grace
	Of spiritual repose.
The heart that talks with God in prayer
	Unconsciously imparts
Some portion of the truths learned there
	To other minds and hearts.”
				IDA HUNT UDALL.

	The Relief Society sisters of the Utah
Stake of Zion join in sending greetings to
their honored leader and companion on her
twenty-first birthday.
	Dear Sister Wells, you have built up a
character so lovely as to draw unto you
friends in every walk of life.
	Marden says, “Labor is the parent of all
the lasting monuments of this world, wheth-
er in verse or in stone, in poetry or in pyra-
mids.” By your industry you have proven
that labor conquers all things.
	By your devotion to every small duty in
your pathway, you have taught us that
“trifles make perfection, but perfection is no
trifle,” as Michael Angelo says. Your life
thus far is fraught with good deeds, actu-
ated by a noble purpose.
	Having reached your twenty-first anni-
versary, you are only now beginning the
summer time of your life. And yet it would
seem that all of your spring time had been
a summer day, so strong and radiant your
every act.
	Some one has said, “A merry heart is a
continual feast to others besides itself,” and
such you have been to us.
	Through the coming years you need have
no regrets, for you have scattered your
flowers as you went and their beauty and
fragrance will live in the hearts of the mul-
titudes that love you.
	In short, we may say with Longfellow,
“A smile of God thou art.”
	Last, but not least, you have shown that
faith in God and obedience to His author-
ized servants is the noblest aim in life.
	PRESIDENCY of UTAH STAKE R. S.

		BIOGRAPHICAL.
		(Printed by Request.)
	Emmeline B. Wells was born Feb. 29,
1828, at Petersham, Worcester county,
Mass., and her forefathers were numbered
among the Puritans who came from Eng-
land in 1620. Her grandfather fought in
the Revolution and her father in the war
of 1812.
	Mrs. Wells at the age of 13 joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and three years later went with her parents
to Nauvoo, where she became the wife of
the presiding bishop of the Church, Newel
K. Whitney. At the exodus of the people
from Nauvoo she made the long journey
across the plains with others who took

[Column 3]
that famous pilgrimage, and upon arriving
in Salt Lake valley took up with others the
hardships, work and privations suffered
by the Utah pioneers. Bishop Whitney
died in 1850, and two years later she be-
came the wife of Daniel H. Wells, one of
the most prominent among the pioneer lead-
ers.
	Mrs. Wells’s mind, even as a girl, had
always run to literary expression, and in
1874 she became associated with Mrs. Lulu
Greene Richards in the editorship of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, the first woman’s
journal to be published in the west. Later
Mrs. Richards resigned, and Mrs. Wells
became sole editor, a position which she has
held ever since. Her office has seen many
noted guests, and she has been one of the
most energetic and hospitable among the en-
tertainers of strangers within Utah’s gates.
She has corresponded with many famous
people, among them John G. Whittier, the
Duchess of Sutherland and many other peo-
ple of title and fame, many of whom have
been her warm friends. Amid her many
activities she has found time to publish two
or three volumes, a book of her own poems,
“Musings and Memories,” “Songs and
Hymns of the Wasatch,” “Charities and
Philanthropies,” and a pamphlet history of
the Relief Society.
	She has been among the most active of
the workers for woman’s suffrage, the Ex-
ponent at all times advocating its cause.
No question of public importance to the
women of Utah has ever been mooted that
Mrs. Wells has not been a noted worker in 
its cause. She was the first woman selected
to go to Washington in the interests of
Utah women, and since, she has been chosen
representative at a number of the big nation-
al women’s meetings at Washington and
elsewhere. She was a speaker at the great
quinquennial congress of women at London
in 1899, and at every public meeting of im-
portance she has attended she has been
among the honored ones present. At home
she has been somewhat active in politics, for
years having served as vice chairman of
the Republican state committee, and a mem-
ber of the constitutional committee of 1882.
	Her arduous public career, and her home
life have never interfered with her religious
duties, as she has been actively interested
in the women’s auxiliary organizations, no 
tably the great Relief Society, which she
has served in various official capacities. At
the death of Mrs. Bathsheba Smith recently,
she was chosen president of that organiza-
tion, a position which she still holds.
	She has also been active in patriotic and
literary circles, having been one of the foun-
ders and also first regent of the Daughters
of the Revolution; founder of the Utah
Woman’s Press Club and of the Reapers’
Literary society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	MARCH, 1912


EXPLANATORY.
	It is perhaps unnecessary to state that for
all the contents of this number of the EX-
PONENT the editor herself is not responsi-
ble. The fact will be self-evident; but a
word of explanation may be in order. After
an editorship covering nearly forty years,
during which she has published biograph-
ies, tributes, reminiscences and poems con-
cerning nearly all the leading women of
the Church, her friends thought it time the
EXPONENT should say a few things about
"Aunt Em" herself. Sister Alice Merrill
Horne of the General Board of the Relief
Society was particular in voicing this sug-
gestion, and in insisting that the March
number of the paper be given largely to a
recital of the exercises and greetings of
the editor's birthday anniversary; in other
words, that this issue should be the "Birth-
day number." In a moment of complais-
ance consent was given, and hence the pres-
ent number, which has been prepared in ac-
cordance with what is felt to be the desire
and request of many friends.—A. W. C.


[Column 1]
TODAY—WHAT OF TOMORROW?
	This wonderful age is in every sense
of the word one of intense progressive ac-
tivity in directions never dreamed of in the
past. Some of the discoveries in science
and some of the present lines of thought
would have been deemed wholly fantastic
and impossible by our ancestors. The la-
bor-saving age is surely here, as evidenced
in the marvels of ingenuity in all the
various fields of labor, as well in the ma-
chinery itself as in the products that can
be brought into use in all directions. Wom-
en, too, are reaching out into work that
will add to the sum of human development
and are doing their part in illustrating that
the world has reached a stage of advance-
ment in all directions that has been un-
equaled by any known century of past his-
tory.
	Of course we still point with great pride
to the Pyramids and many other extraor-
dinary achievements of those ancient days;
we speak with admiration of the rare spec-
mens of exquisite art and literature which
have come down to us and we hold in
something of reverence those who have left
these rich legacies illustrating the stupen-
dous and the beautiful to those who should

[Column 2]
come after them. But nevertheless the
people of today believe that the advance-
ment in civilization, which embraces about
everything, is higher than ever before, and
are justified in thinking so from all obser-
vation and from all historical data obtain-
able.
	Take, for example, the great improve-
ment in modes of traveling. Herein is not
only an additional proof of higher thought
and progress, but it affords easier and
more complete facilities of examining all
that has heretofore existed and comparing
it with the works of today. What further
results may yet be reached in the rapidity
and comfort of transportation is not to
be at this time conceived, for who can
magine or foresee? Who would have be-
lieved, a hundred years ago, the actual tri-
umphs every day seen by us who live in
the present age! Almost the only forecast
or fantasy had in those days was “Mother
Shipton’s prophecy,” which was a frequent
byword, more laughed at than credited.
And yet we have come to see many stranger
and more remarkable things than even she
dreamed of.
	We who have lived a long time have seen
scores of marvelous changes in these United
States. Formerly there were no railroads,
and people adopted as the cheapest, easiest
and quickest mode of travel the waterways
of the country. They traversed these in
old-fashioned wind-driven ships and
schooners and sloops. Then came steam,
and soon thereafter the railroads were built;
improvements being made on every new in-
vention until the progress became bewilder-
ing in its rapidity. Our cooking was done
over an open fire place; if the fire went out,
there were no matches, and one must run to
the neighbor’s for coals, or strike fire with
steel and flint. Illustrations might be mul-
tiplied without number, if this would not
be tedious. Yet even then people were
happy, perhaps in greater proportion on the
average, than they are today; for happi-
ness, after all, does not consist in worldly
wealth. However, most of us vastly prefer
the improvements and all the advantages
of modern life.
	Certainly the world’s advancement in all
directions of progress and development has
been miraculous and now the question
arises, after attaining such heights, what
more is there to acquire in the material
world?
	In the development of the race or races
of mankind there is a wider field for pres-
ent-day endeavor than anywhere else. In
this direction the people have come far
short of attaining perfection. True, there
are not so many barbarians, at least not
so many left alive, as once inhabited the
earth, nor can it be disputed that in mod-
ern times there are people that have ar-
rived at a very high state of excellence of
mind and body and heart. It is a sad fact,
however, that these are the exception and
not the rule. When we consider the con-
dition of the masses, and reflect upon the
great enlightenment of this century, truth
demands the admission that at the best we
are not nearly so much improved as human
beings as we ought to be. This subject,
therefore, the betterment of the race, vast
and delicate as it is, offers an inviting field
for the best efforts of pen, and thought,
and activity.
	Sociology in its largest and best sense

[Column 3]
gives us an idea of what is needed, but
does not always tell how to correct exist-
ing conditions. There is, however, a “high-
er intelligence” to which the Latter-day
Saints have access, which can show us the
better and surer way by which we may
eventually arrive at some permanently re-
forming influences that will help redeem
mankind. After all, one of the greatest
needs is that of looking inward as well as
outward. Let us study ourselves and see
wherein we come short where we should
excel. While we look outward for great
things in this beautiful world of ours, we
should also look inward, into our own
hearts and find out how to correct our own
errors and shortcomings, and to exercise
that true charity which is the crowning vir-
tue of human life in its association with hu-
manity. We should strive to be mindful of
those around us in those particular walks
of life where our own lot is cast. It is
far better to live a life of purity and up-
rightness even in obscurity and to seek for
wisdom to conquer our own faults and van-
ties, than to shine resplendent in the eyes
of the world at large because of some
great victory or achievement. Without the
humility and charity that creates happiness
within our own souls we shall be poor in-
deed; possessing these virtues, we are rich
and great. Holding these uppermost and
firmly, it is not only legitimate but praise-
worthy to strive for proficiency along any
good line of work that will make the world
better and life more desirable.
	Coming back to the thought with which
we began: the advancement in human prog-
ress makes this age in which we are living
undoubtedly a great one, and the growth of
attainment along progressive lines is indeed
little less than marvelous. But we must
not boast prematurely. While the race has
overcome much, there is much still to be
done. There are still great and numerous
high standards of excellence to be attained.
We know that God is at the helm, and He
will rule and overrule and direct as seem-
eth to Him good. There is encouragement
and hope for those who have faith in Him
and are seeking the advancement of His
cause. To these, all things will be made
plain in His own due time. Greater light and
knowledge will be revealed from time to
time for the benefit of those who are pre-
pared to receive His divine messages, great-
er than has ever been manifest heretofore.
Therefore as the present age surpasses
those of the past, so will the future far ex-
ceed in that which pertains to human hap-
piness and perfection the conditions which
we are prone to dwell upon with such sat-
isfaction and pride today.


IN MEMORIAM.
EMMA SMITH WOODRUFF.
	One more of the valiant and faithful
workers among the women of Zion has left
us, passed on to the higher, better life.
Again we are called to mourn. One of the
noble leaders in the Relief Society has laid
down the burden of earthly care and joined
those loved and gone before in the man-
sions of our heavenly Father.
	On the early morning of March 3rd, Sis-
ter Emma S. Woodruff bade farewell to
her loved ones, who, sorrowing, had gath-
ered at her side, and sweetly as a child


[Column 1]
fell into that last long sleep. A spirit of
peace and rest pervaded now that silent
chamber, where for long weeks before had
been pain and suffering and struggle to re-
sist the hand of fate which at last became
master and claimed its victim. All that
untiring, loving hearts could do or think
of to keep her yet a little while was done,
but medicine, tender nursing, faith and
prayers availed not, and at last, when, the
weary body yielded to the call, the loved
ones bowed in humble recognition that
God knew the best, and peace came into
their hearts.
	Sister Woodruff has been a prominent
figure among the women of Zion all her
life. She was born March 1, 1838, at Adam-
Ondi-Ahman, Daviess county, Missouri,
which is sacredly held by the Latter-day
Saints as a future gathering place. Like
other pioneer women she endured the
hardships and toil of the early days in this
western land, but being young and strong
she was also able to enjoy life to the ut-
most, and in the social gatherings of the
young people she was a happy participant.
She became, when quite young, the wife of
Wilford Woodruff, who was then a mem-
ber of the quorum of Apostles; and though
he spent much of his time away on missions, 
the family of such men are always held in
high regard and love by their people. Later,
when her husband became president of
the Church, Sister Woodruff traveled with
him quite extensively and was his constant
and devoted attendant throughout the re-
mainder of his long and wonderful life.
She had a large family and was a most af-
fectionate and tender mother. She fondly
shielded and cared for her loved ones and
was never quite able to reconcile herself
to great sorrow though she was a woman
of deep faith.
	Sister Woodruff took an active part in
woman’s organizations and public duties,
notwithstanding her home ties and responsi-
bilities. She was for many years the pres-
ident of the Relief Society of Farmers
ward, and when the General Relief Society
was incorporated she was one of the orig-
inal directors. As a member of the General
Board she was an untiring, zealous worker,
regular in attending committee meetings,
visiting Relief Society conferences in the
various stakes of Zion from Canada to
Mexico, and meeting in council with her sis-
ters on all matters pertaining to the welfare
of that organization. When the Granite
Stake was organized, Sister Woodruff was
appointed stake president of the Relief So-
ciety, a position requiring in itself a great
amount of work; and that stake has without
question a banner society in the organiza-
tion.
	At the opening of the Salt Lake Temple
in 1893, Sister Woodruff was called to of-
ficiate in that holy house. She was assist-
ant both to Aunt Zina Young and Aunt
Bathsheba Smith when they presided there.
Her good works are many and will live
after her in the memory of her people.
	For some time before her last illness
Sister Woodruff seemed to have a pre-
monition of her death, and sometimes made
remarks that her dear ones pondered over.
She was weary and tired, and no doubt
longed to join those of her loved ones who
had gone before.
	Heartfelt tributes were paid her at the
funeral services, glorious music was ren-

[Column 2]
dered and a wealth of floral offerings, fra-
grant evidences of affection from friends,
was everywhere. And thus, covered with
nature’s sweetest and most beautiful flow-
ers, and mourned by hundreds of loved
ones, was another mother in Israel laid to
rest on the hillside.
A. W. C.
MEMORIAL SERVICES.
	Memorial services for Sister Emma
Smith Woodruff, late president of the Gran-
ite Stake Relief Society were held at the
Granite Stake Tabernacle Monday, March
18, 1912, commencing at 1 p.m., Counselor
Leonora T. Harrington presiding and con-
ducting the exercises.
	Opened by singing “My mountain home
so dear.”
	Prayer, Sister Harriet J. Miller
	Singing “Zion prospers, all is well.”
	Sister Elizabeth C. Taylor read the fol-
lowing resolutions of respect:
	Whereas, In His wisdom and infinite
goodness the Lord has called to her eternal
home our beloved sister and friend Emma
Smith Woodruff. In the loss of our sister
we the members of the Granite Stake Re-
lief Society realize that there has gone to
her reward a pioneer of this state, a no-
ble woman, and a mother in Israel. Sis-
ter Woodruff was the embodiment of good-
ness. She carried with her the influence
of her divine calling in the Relief Society,
and her beautiful character has been a
source of inspiration to us all, to make us
nobler in our lives and to cause us to sense
keenly the sweetness of divine motherhood.
We, her sisters, ask God to bless her
children. May they emulate the beautiful
character of their mother, and may we never
forget her wonderful example of love for
her fellowmen and the Lord. We pray our
Father in Heaven to bless her family that
they may realize always that God is good.
and that He is our Father and Savior.
Resolved, That these resolutions be sent
to the family of the deceased, that a copy be
recorded in the minutes of our society, and
one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
SUSAN E. BRINTON,
ELIZBETH C. TAYLOR,
Committee.
	Solo, “My Faith in Thee,” Sister Ella D.
Bishop.
	Sketch of the life of Sister Woodruff
by Sister Emily M. Brinton.
	Trio “Galilee,” Sisters Eccles, Peterson,
Priestly and choir.
	Brief eulogies were given by the follow-
ing sisters: Katherine H. Brockbank, Laura
E. Cutler, Dr. Margaret Roberts, Sarah
J. Cannon, Julia M. Farnsworth and Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells of the General
Board, who testified eloquently to the su-
perior qualities of Sister Woodruff’s charac-
ter, her humble and self-sacrificing spirit,
her kindness to the poor, her love and
fidelity to her family and friends, her faith-
fulness to the work of the Lord. She was
trusted and respected by all with whom she
labored, and her memory will go down to
posterity revered and loved.
	Duet, “Truth reflects upon our senses,”
Sisters Priestly and Green.
	Piano solo, “O My Father.” Miss Daisy
Hilton.
	Sister Laura E. Cutler in behalf of the

[Column 3]
family, thanked all who had so kindly min-
istered to their mother and filled her room
with flowers during her last illness.
	Closing hymn, “Providence is over all.”
	Benediction Patriarch James McGhie.
PRUDENCE BROWN,
Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INFLUENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	[On the 17th of March, 1912, in accord-
ance with the published suggestion of the
First Presidency, exercises were held gener-
ally throughout the Church, commemora-
tive of the seventieth anniversary of the
organization of the Relief Society. At al-
most all these exercises a history or sketch
of the society was given as one of the
features of the program. It would be obvi-
ously impossible to publish all or any con-
siderable number of these, excellent though
they are. Moreover, there is of necessity
more or less of similarity of fact, though
with much variety of language, in all such
sketches. We trust therefore no one will
be offended at our inability to make use of
the numerous communications on this sub-
ject which have been so kindly forwarded.
The thoughtfulness which prompted the
sending is fully appreciated; and we hope
our friends will understand why we are
compelled to content ourselves with the
foregoing acknowledgment of it. The fol-
lowing, which differs from most such sketch-
es in that it discusses the results and con-
sequences of the organization of the society
rather than the historical fact itself, will,
we are sure, prove interesting. It was given
in the 29th ward of Salt Lake City, Sunday
evening, March 17, 1912, by Mrs. Maria
Francis.—ED.]
	I shall confine my remarks to the influ-
ence of the spirit of the Prophet’s action in
turning the keys for women’s work, upon
the nations of the earth.
	It surely ought to be a reason for re-
joicing to the Society that they were the
first to have an organized charity in the
world. There have been many charitable
people in all ages, ready to relieve upon
emergency, but nothing like the work of the
Relief Society. Seventy years have passed
and other organizations have sprung up;
for instance the Salvation Army, formerly
called “the Christian Mission;” “the Little
Sisters of the Poor;” “the Society of Dea-
conesses;” “the Ladies’ Aid Society;” the
“Ragged Schools” in London. In 1836 a
Mr. Geo. Muller started a home for waifs
and strays in Bristol. By 1856 he had se-
cured for the work subscriptions amounting
to $422,205 and had rescued over 300 chil-
dren annually. In 1875 over 2000 children
were lodged and educated in these homes
at Bristol alone. He also started a large
farm in Australia, where the older boys
were sent to learn farming. He died in
London in 1898 at the age of 94 years.
	Many titled ladies in England have been
moved upon to enter into charitable work,
among them Lady Somerset, Lord and
Lady Aberdeen working side by side, Queen
Victoria, and the princesses, the Duchess
of Cambridge, her daughter, the Princess
May, now Queen of England. The general
indication shows that woman is reaching to
a higher degree of freedom than was ever


[Column 1]
thought of prior to the time of the Prophet
turning the keys in favor of women. Until
this time women had been contented to
take a back seat and yield to their husbands
the lead and dominance of everthing. Very
few thought of reasoning with them, or
entering into any sort of discussion relative
to the general topics of the day. But ad-
vanced education has opened their under-
standings and made them fit to stand on
an equal footing with their husbands, and to
be indeed greater helpmates in every sense
of the word.
	This is not confined to America and Eng-
land alone—

“Not by one channel or one path alone
Does God to man His mysteries make known.”

	It is extending to all parts of the world.
	Science is teaching us that not only the
words of men but their thoughts even
are transmitted and conveyed by some un-
known power; that when any great move-
ment is being made for the betterment of
mankind the same thoughts are in the minds
of many at the same time; thus showing
that it is the Spirit of God that is directing
all things.
	In India the thraldom of the harem is
being cast off; and the remarriage of wid-
ows, a thing unknown until late years. The
child widows in India were doomed to a
life of indignity, as “accursed of God,” until
the light of civilization and freedom for
women was received by them. Now these
child widows are being educated and many
are embracing Christianity. Others are
taught the cruelty of their faith and are
gradually abandoning it. Many of the so-
called native “queens of India” are educated
women and if not embracing Christianity 
are becoming civilized and thoughtful wom-
en. It is hard to throw off the teachings
of childhood at once, but time will have its
effect on them.
	In China again the women are refusing
to have their feet bound, and education is
making great strides amongst them.
	In Japan the advancement is perfectly
wonderful. It is only about 45 years since
Japan showed any desire for advancement.
	I was in Calcutta when the Japanese
government purchased their first ships for
copies to build their merchant vessels by,
the Thunder and Lightning, belonging to
Jardine, Skinner and Co. of Calcutta; and
I remember the stir it made in India at the
time. Since then their advancement has
been phenomenal.
	In our own country what opportunities
for education are open, in connection with
the various auxiliaries of the Church, in-
structing its women to meet the advanced
requirements! Salt Lake City will not long
be able to contain its increasing population,
and the instruction our young mothers and
girls are receiving will in turn be taught
to their children and prepare them to meet
the contingencies of a new life in a greater
world. Never lose an opportunity that you
can embrace of learning. Salt Lake has
splendid opportunities and the eyes of all
the States are upon us. Therefore, let us
make ourselves equal to the occasions that
will meet us. I know it is hard for some of
us to attend the meetings, but we shall in
the future be well repaid for the sacrifice.
“Knowledge is power,” no matter what the
subject may be.
	I have omitted to mention that angel

[Column 2]
woman Florence Nightingale, who was
moved upon to go out with a staff of nurses
to the Crimean war. It is enough to bring
tears to the eyes of strong men, when they
hear that as she passed through the wards
the suffering men whom she thought to be
sleeping turned painfully on their pillows
to kiss her shadow, so much did they revere
her.
	Truly could they say of women:
	“When pain and sickness rack the brow
	A ministering angel thou.”
	Men have sung and written of their
appreciation of women’s work in thousands
of ways. One says: “Women are the cog
wheels that turn the machinery of good
works;” another: “It is the mothers by
their anxious care and loving kindness have
made the best of men what they are;” an-
other says:
		“You talk about a woman’s sphere
			As if it had a limit;
		There’s not a thing in earth or heaven, 
		There’s not a good to mankind given,
		There’s not a weal, there’s not a woe.
		There’s not a whispered Yes or No,
		There’s not a birth, there’s not a death,
		There’s not a feather’s weight of worth
			on earth 
		Without a woman in it.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. SARAH K. BRIDGE HONORED.
	One of the most enjoyable events of the
month occurred at the Eleventh Ward
Amusement Hall on March 8th when one
hundred and twenty-five members and
guests of the Relief Society assembled to
do honor to their president on the occasion
of her fiftieth birthday anniversary.
	The affair took the form of a surprise
party, and Sister Bridge was visibly affected
when she was led into the brilliantly lighted
hall, where the tables were spread with
viands fit for a queen, and decorated with
clusters of carnations, and potted plants.
Among the guests were the ward Bishopric
and the stake Relief Society officers, Sisters
Margaret A. Romney, Minnie Horne James,
Sarah E. Langford, Cecil Sharp Barker
and Belle Hawkins. In behalf of the soci-
ety Bro. Arthur Brown bade the guests
welcome to the feast and eulogised the
labors of Brother and Sister Bridge. Grace
was said by Sister Margaret Romney. While
the banquet was being served, the following
program was rendered: Recitation, Sister
Barker; solo, Mrs. Jos. Wirthlin; song,
Beatrice Sherwood.
	After the dinner Sister Lewis in a neat
little speech presented the guest of honor
with a beautiful umbrella, which Sister
Bridge accepted in a very graceful little
talk.
	Sister Amanda Done gave a reading and
Sister Lillie T. Freeze read an original
poem, dedicated to Sister Bridge, and en-
titled “Fifty Links.”


The medal—the “first gold decoration of
learning”—the highest in its order, has re-
cently been conferred upon Madam Ali
Kuli Khan, wife of the charge d’affaires of
the Persian legation in Washington by the
Shah of Persia. She is one of the few
women in the world so honored.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOTHER O’ER ISRAEL.
To Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Feb. 24, 1912. 
Mother o’er Israel, Handmaid of God,
Saints arise, call thee blessed where’er thou
	hast trod.
Thy voice like a clarion for truth has pro-
	claimed,
Since e’er thou hast spoken. Our youth are
	inflamed
By thy noble deeds to strive for the like,
And, like thee, for Christ and His kingdom to
	strike.
Thou knewest the dawn of this, God’s last,
	time;
Hast prayed, borne and taught with a cour-
	age divine.
Father of ours, in the heavens above,
Keep thou her, our mother, enshrined in Thy
	love.
Her presence on earth a halo has been;
Where she lives or breathes, even thinks, is
	no sin.
Her brow is now crowned with the snow of
	four score;
Thy Saints would yet hold her long years, ever-
	more.
When Thou callest her Thou wilt say, “Well
	done;
A place in my love, like in theirs, thou hast
	won.”
					Edward P. Kimball.


THE BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	Long ago, in the early sixties, the broad
streets of Salt Lake were shaded on either
side with the sweet-scented black locust
tree, and sparkling streams of water separ-
ated the side walks from the streets used
for traffic. Then there were no noisy street-
cars rushing past, no buzzing of electric
wires, no chunk-chunk of autos even in
one’s fancy, but all the air was full of the
songs of birds, the hum of bees and the
sweet intercourse of village life and the
whole community dwelt like one vast family.


[Column 1]
	The houses were mostly rude construc-
tions of native timber with dirt roofs or
plain gray adobe placed in a large lot
adorned with young fruit trees and sur-
rounded by a rough pole fence or wall of
cobble stones and plaster. 'Twas then among
these rude surroundings of pioneer life that
President Brigham Young had built for the
comfort of his family those two historic
and classic homes The Lion House and The
Bee Hive House. Within their walls was
reared a family leading an ideal commu-
nistic life; and as the fair and beautiful
sons and daughters of that great sire grew
to manhood and womanhood the sounds
of mirth and laughter, of rare music and
fervent prayer, vibrated through the rooms
and halls, creating an artistic and sacred
atmosphere that has clung to the walls like
the tendrils of green ivy or the perfume of
roses.
	Not only were these homes the dwelling
places of this great family but a social
gathering place for all their friends, and
a home to which strangers to the city
sought the entree. President Young in
his proud dignity received from time to
time many distinguished men and women
here, some who came from curiosity, some
filled with prejudice, but all leaving with
a sense that they had been in the presence
of a great man whose magnetic power had
drawn from them the best that was in them.
	As the years have past, from time to time
these homes have been the scene of splen-
did entertainments and stand to-day monu-
ments of a wise and great leader, still beau-
tiful, classical and useful. How fitting that
these houses should eventually by purchase
become the property of the Church of which
President Young was leader; and one of
them (The Bee Hive House) be retained
as the official residence of the President
of that Church! Here President Lorenzo
Snow dwelt, and again was repeated for
a short time the series of fine entertain-
ments not only to his own people but the
"stranger within the gates." Now as the
official residence of President Joseph F.
Smith, history again repeats itself.
	There is about the dear old house an air
of comfort and sweet content. One does
not hesitate at the portal fearful of form
and propriety, but, assured of a home-like
greeting and a pleasant welcome, enters
the rooms and partakes of the spirit that
pervades there: a home where dwells not
only a great leader but a comely and hospi-
table lady whose greatest pleasure it is to
give pleasure to others; a woman of rare
gifts of mind and heart whose time is given
in unselfish service and whose life is
filled with kindly deeds.
	The hospitality of this home under the
guidance of President Smith and his "gude-
wife" Aunt Julina is unbounded. Many
enjoyable parties are given there and per-
haps never one more so than on a recent
occasion when Sister Julina L. Smith gave
a dinner party in honor of the president
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells on her attaining the great age of
eight-four years.
	The guests numbered about twenty-five,
including the First Presidency of the
Church, the members of the General Board
of Relief Society and Mrs. Wells' daughters.
The table was a picture long to be remem-
bered; beautifully appointed, with fine lin-
en, cut glass and dainty china, decorated
with pink and white carnations and

[Column 2]
Chetney roses. The dinner was delecta-
ble in every particular and all the fine work
of the well-trained and beautiful daughters
of the household. Mrs. Julia P. M. Farns-
worth acted as toastmistress and in well
chosen words introduced each of the guests
present, all of whom responded, paying a
tribute of love and admiration to the guest
of honor, Mrs. Wells. The ladies were much
honored to have with them President Smith,
President Lund and President Penrose, and
will long remember their beautiful and in-
structive remarks. Altogether it was an
occasion which in every detail was most
pleasant and delightful.
ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARY.
	LYDIA CATHERINE MAN ADAMS.
	Lydia Catherine Man Adams, an honored
pioneer of Teasdale, Wayne Co., died Jan.
17th, 1912 of dropsy and pneumonia, at
Torrey, at the home of her daughter Mrs.
Elizabeth Covington, at the ripe age of 81
years, 11 months and 23 days. She was
stricken with dropsy 5 weeks before her de-
mise, and although medical aid was secured
and loving hands did all in their power to
relieve her sufferings, yet it was decreed
otherwise, for the noble spirit had faithfully
performed life’s mission, and was ready to
lay down life’s burdens, with the glorious
assurance of coming forth in the morning
of the first resurrection, with her husband
and loved ones gone before. For days before
the end came, all of her children except one
son, Lewis Adams of Manard, Idaho, were
constantly at her bedside.
	Mrs. Adams was the daughter of George
William Man and Elizabeth Cook Man. She
was born January 25th, 1830, at Beaverley,
Canada, and married David B. Adams,
a widower with 5 small children. She was
the mother of eleven children, seven sons,
and four daughters; two sons, two daugh-
ters, her husband, and four step-children
preceding her to the other side. She has
81 grandchildren, 79 great-grandchildren,
and seven great-great-grandchildren.
	She and her husband were among the
first pioneers of Beaver and Adamsville,
(the latter place being named after them),
Cedar, Escalante, and Teasdale, enduring
the hardships and trials of the early days
of Utah uncomplainingly. They lived for
months on bran bread, and water soup in
which a few carrot tops were boiled and
thickened with bran. On such a diet she
took care of their now large family, sheared,
carded, spun, and wove the wool from the
few sheep they had, and after the children
were in bed at night she would wash, iron,
patch, and darn, so that the clothes would
be ready to put on in the morning. She
was an artist with the needle and in the
latter years of her life, she fashioned beauti-
ful designs in quilts, bedspreads, rugs, tidies,
etc., and was never so happy as when sur-
rounded by her children, grand, and great-
grandchildren and had plenty of work to
keep her busy. She was able to work and
get around until she was taken sick.
	She was an industrious, faithful Latter-
Day Saint beloved by all who knew her;
and was lovingly called Grandma Adams
by all of the neighborhood.
	She was president of the Teasdale Relief
Society for a number of years, and a faith-
ful Church worker all her life.
	At her funeral, which was held in the
Teasdale meeting house, Jan. 20th, 1912,

[Column 2]
the speakers, Elder Walter E. Hanks,
President Joseph Eckersley, Elders James
Hood, Heber J. Wilson and Walter Cole-
man all spoke of the beautiful character of
the deceased and paid a high tribute to her
sterling qualities and lovable disposition.
Those who had known her all their lives
testified they had never seen her angry or
out of patience, and that she was indeed
a modest, unassuming, lovable wife and
mother. They spoke consolingly to the rel-
atives and exhorted them to live for a hap-
py reunion in the future.
	The floral offerings were profuse and
beautiful, and the ward choir furnished ap-
propriate music. “Near the great white
Throne,” was sweetly rendered by Mrs.
Ada Shurtz and Miss Hazel Dailey. Friends
came from different parts of the county to
pay their last respects to this noble woman.

	ROSABEL B. TREAGLE WALKE.
	Died, at Union, Mar. 12, 1912, Sister
Rosabel Treagle Walke, daughter of James
Treagle and Rosena James, and the be-
loved wife of Thomas H. Walke. She was
born May 25th, 1861, in Jersey, Channel
Islands, England. The family emigrated to
New Zealand in 1874. When the Elders
opened a branch of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in Christchurch,
New Zealand, her mother and family were
baptized, but her father, a good man, still
remained a “Bible Christian,” but desired
baptism before he died. Sister Rosabel
was baptized in December 1879. She re-
ceived her blessings and was sealed to her
husband, who is eighty-four years old, in
the Endowment House, by President Daniel
H. Wells.
	She was the mother of eleven children,
seven girls and four boys; five girls and
three boys survive her, as well as her aged
husband who feels her loss very keenly;
also eight grandchildren, one brother and
four sisters
	Sister Walke was our first organist in the
Union Ward 31 years ago, as well as an
active worker in the Y. L. M. I. A, For
the last 12 years she has been a most effi-
cient secretary in our Relief Society, and 
none will feel her loss outside of her family
more than the officers of our association.
True to every trust, strict and correct in
all matters pertaining to her office and call-
ing, her record books were clean and with-
out blot, emblematical of the purity of her
life. We shall surely miss her but we feel
our loss is her gain.
	Resolved: That we extend to the bereaved
ones our sincere sympathy and pray God
that His comforting influence may be with
them and that they may feel to acknowledge
His goodness even in their sore affliction
and
	Resolved: By the sisters of the Union
Ward Relief Society that we mourn our
loss, and appreciate the purity of her life
and the worthy example she has set for us
to follow; be it further
	Resolved: That a copy of these resolu-
tions be presented to the family of the de-
ceased; be placed on the records of our
society and a copy be sent to the Exponent
for publication.
				MARY ANN SMART,
				HARRIET WILKINS,
				JENNIE BERGSTROM,
				LUCY A. BRADY, 
				SARAH BUXTON,
In behalf of the Union Ward Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 40						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1912						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
Clara Barton and the Red Cross............... 
	.........................Annie Wells Cannon	57
General Relief Society Conference..........	58
Suggestions for the Relief Society............	60
Editorial: The Titanic................................	60
	Our Temple of the Drama.................	60
Reminiscences of Mrs. A. Agatha Pratt....	62
In Loving Remembrance of Mary A.
	Freeze........................V. C. McCune	63
Relief Society Reports: Liberty Stake......	63
	St Joseph Stake ................................	63
Improve Hell’s Gate ................................	63
Notes and News..............................59, 61,	64
Poetry: “Come Unto The House of the Lord
		and Ye Shall Find Rest”............	57
	Mary A. Freeze..............E. R. Shipp	59


“COME UNTO THE HOUSE OF THE
LORD AND YE SHALL FIND REST.”

I know a home on Zion’s Hill
	Far greater than all earthly homes—
Its name? “A Temple of our God,”
	In majesty it stands alone.

Its holy walls are built of stone;
	It rests on dedicated ground;
An angel guards its lofty dome,
	Heard in its halls are sacred sounds

There strains of tuneful praise are heard, 
	Of Saints who worship there their God 
Who praise His name with thankful hearts
	For wonders marvellously wrought.

It is a home where love and light,
	Where hope and joy and peace abound;
One place on earth where hallowed Faith
	And rest from weary toil are found.

Prepared for Jesus is this place
	When He in glory shall appear,
Where we shall meet Him face to face,
	And listen to His words so dear.

Eternity! Thou glorious word!
	Oh, may we come to comprehend:
Eternal union will be ours
	If we obey our Lord’s command.
						—Emilie Maeser.


[Column 1]
CLARA BARTON AND THE RED CROSS.
	Clara Barton, the brave, noble, heroic
Clara Barton, is dead, died of pneumonia,
at the ripe age of ninety years, at her home
in Glen Echo, Maryland, April 12. 
	There would hardly seem to be adequate
words to speak of the great work of this
wonderful woman, for her name is a syn-
onym for all that is most worthy. Like
some other heroines of history her life was
sacrificed to a cause. She denied herself
the great joys and comforts of the wife and
home-maker in order to use all her talents
for humanity; and now she has been called
to the Great Beyond, having lived nearly a

[Column 2]
century, devoting all the best years of her
life to the work of philanthropy. Miss Bar-
ton spent the evening of her days quietly
at her beautiful home in Maryland, sur-
rounded with mementoes of her experiences
in war and disasters and many rare and
precious gifts from friends and grateful
people whom she had served. Her home
was a sort of shrine to which hundreds of
tourists sought admission just to see this
wonderful little woman and show her their
esteem. To all she extended a cordial wel-
come, and delighted her visitors by relating
some of her experiences and showing to
some of the more favored ones her numer-
ous medals and decorations.
	Clarissa Harlowe Barton was born near
Oxford, Mass., on Christmas day, 1821.
For several years she taught school in her
native village, and later helped organize the
public school system in New Jersey by open-
ing a free school, beginning with six pupils
in a dilapidated old house and having at the
year’s end 600 pupils in a fine brick building
erected for her. She accepted a position in
the Patent office at Washington in 1853,
where her efficiency was most marked. Her
real life work, however, found its beginning
when the war broke out between the North
and the South. It was then that her atten-
tion was called to the lack of provision for
taking care of wounded soldiers on the bat-
tlefield and for bringing to the men comfort
and delicacies from home and friends. The
history of this part of her career forcibly
shows her skill in leadership and organiza-
tion as well as her courage, generosity and
tenderness. At the close of the war she
was appointed by President Lincoln to head
a commission to trace missing soldiers. After 
this sad and laborious task Miss Barton was
much broken down in health and she took
a vacation to Europe. While on this vaca-
tion and during her sojourn in Geneva she 
was invited to attend the meeting of public
utilities which, as those familiar with Red
Cross work already know, had established
an international relief work through the ef-
forts of Henri Dunant, whose feelings over
the lack of care of wounded soldiers at the
battle of Solferino had been so wrought upon 
that he had determined to bring about a
neutral condition for the distressed in times
of war. This resulted in the formation of
the Red Cross Society at Geneva in 1864;
but at that time only ten governments had
joined the society. In 1869 Miss Barton at-
tended the meeting of this society in Berne
and quickly realized the broadness and scope
of the work. While still in Europe the
Franco-Prussian war broke out, and at the
request of Dr. Appia and others of the Red
Cross committee she went to the front and
served as she had done during the Civil
War, only this time under more system and
organization. After the war and during the
terrible Commune at Paris which followed,
Clara Barton distributed relief to the people
of Paris, some of her best work being per-
formed during the seige of that city.
	After this all Europe sang her praises.
The Grand Duchess of Baden made Miss

[Column 3]
Barton chief assistant in the preparation of
the military hospitals. The Emperor of Ger-
many presented her with the Cross of Merit.
The Grand Duke of Baden gave her a
Red Cross brooch, the Gold Cross of Re-
membrance and the colors of Baden. When
Clara Barton returned to her own country
her first move was to try to persuade the
United States to sign the treaty of Geneva.
This treaty guaranteed protection and ex-
emption from capture to those who go on the
battlefield to care for the sick and wounded.
It made neutral all sick or disabled soldiers,
all persons as nurses or attendants, all sup-
plies of medicine or food for their use; all
field and military hospitals with their equip-
ments, all gifts from neutral nations for the
use of the sick and wounded of any army.
She waited nine weary years for this, gen-
erally conceded to be the most liberal of all
nations, to accept this treaty: but finally,
largely through the efforts of Secretary
James G. Blaine, success came—President
Garfield favored it but had not signed the
treaty at the time of his assassination, and
shortly after it was signed by President
Arthur.
	In the meantime, however, a few men and
women had formed an American National
Committee of the Red Cross which was re-
organized under President Garfield, he ap-
pointing Miss Barton president; and at her
suggestion the work of the society was
broadened to include in addition to work
on the battlefield, the relief of suffering in
times of all national calamities. Her work
now grew rapidly. The American society
was founded in 1881 and the same year the
great forest fires broke out in Michigan;
then followed in succession the Mississippi
floods and cyclone, the famine of Texas, the
Charleston earthquake, the Illinois cyclone
in 1888, the epidemic of yellow fever in
Florida, the awful Jownstown disaster in
1889, the Russian famine, the cyclone in
Iowa, the tidal wave that swept the South
Carolina Islands. She carried relief to strick-
en Armenia, and later was found waiting on
and helping the Cuban reconcentrados. Even
at her advanced age when the Spanish
American war broke out it was Clara Bar-
ton who headed the Red Cross nurses on
the Cuban battlefields and afterwards was
seen among the distressed in ocean-swept
Galveston. She resigned from active work
in the Red Cross in 1904 but the soldiers
and the people of this country will always
associate her with that great work and hold
her name in the greatest reverence.
	In 1905 she organized The National
First Aid Association; this is intended to
reach all accidents incident to daily life.
	Miss Barton was always an active suffra-
gist and an intimate friend of Miss An-
thony and her associates. It is rather inter-
esting to note the comments made on her
life in this regard by some of the leading
newspapers. For instance, the Detroit
Journal asks: “Will the life of any future
woman, with all the franchises and liberties
which the future grants, accomplish a work
like that done by this woman of the past


generations?” And the St. Louis Globe
Democrat says: “The fact that she did so
much in ninety years without the ballot can
be used either for or against woman suf-
frage;” but the New York Evening Post is
sure that “Those who object to giving wom-
en the ballot will find Miss Barton and Miss
Nightingale hard to explain away.”
	While her name is linked with that of
Florence Nightingale, the heroine of the
Crimea, it must be conceded that her work
was even greater and more far-reaching.
She was not only a ministering angel to the
sick and distressed but she carried her work
to the “firing line” and was in the front
of the battle. The press generally concedes
that she is our greatest national heroine and
the equal of any soldier or statesman of the
Civil war, “because she was the most per-
fect incarnation of mercy the modern world
has known.”
	While the nation has lost a heroine, the
women have lost a friend. Clara Barton for
many years has been a striking figure at the
assemblies of the National Councils of Wom-
en and suffrage conventions, and was well
known by many of our leading Utah women.
She has been an intimate correspondent and
particular friend of Mrs. Wells, President
of the Relief Society, who was recipient of
both her books, “The Story of the Red
Cross” and “Clara Barton’s Childhood” as
well as her portrait with autograph presen-
tation and sentiment. Their work has been
so similiar and all their activities so general-
ly in sympathy with each other that it is
not strange that these two should have been
drawn together. The women of their gene-
ration are the pioneers in the advanced work
of the women of today. To them all honor
and all praise.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.
	The conference of the General Relief So-
ciety of the Church was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall on Wednesday, April
3, 1912, with President Emmeline B. Wells
presiding.
	The morning session opened at 10 a.m.
Singing, "O Ye Mountains High." Prayer
by Mrs. Rhoda A. Lyman.
	A solo, "Waft Her, Angels, Through the
Skies," was given by John T. Hand.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave hearty
greetings to the large assemblage and ex-
pressed her gratification at seeing so many
out at the opening session of the confer-
ence. Spoke of the seventieth anniversary
of the Relief Society, (on March 17, 1912),
which was appropriately commemorated in
all the Stakes of Zion. Felt that all should
be proud of our organization and the work
it has accomplished in these seventy years.
From such a small beginning the work has
spread all over the world wherever there are
missions, and has proven a great blessing to
the missionaries.
	Mrs. Johannah Jensen of Wasatch Stake
[---]onded to the president's greeting. She
[---]t that her stake was greatly honored in
having the privilege of responding to the
[---]tiful greeting of our beloved president.
She felt that the words of hope and encour-
[--]ement from the president would inspire all
to greater effort in the coming year.

[Column 2]
	The Ladies' quartet sang, "Christ is
Risen From the Dead."
	Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., then addressed
the assembly on the subject of "Genealogy"
and "The Salvation of the Dead." He
urged the necessity of the members of the
Relief Society becoming interested, and of
actually engaging themselves in this great
work of collecting records and of officiating
for the dead. In order to accomplish the
great plan of redemption it is necessary that
those who died without hearing the Gospel
shall have salvation. It is a great privilege
given the Latter-day Saints to attend to this
work. The Lord has even declared that it
is an obligation we owe to our dead kindred.
According to the plan of salvation we are all
kindred, with Father Adam at the head,
who will rule over us as a united whole.
How can we be linked together if we fail
to go to the Temple and perform the neces-
sary ordinances for our fathers and mothers
who did not receive the privilege? If we
fail the links cannot be joined and the chain
cannot be completed.
	Elder Smith spoke of the great work be-
ing done by the genealogical societies in the
Eastern States as well as in England and of
the benefits we may receive from their com-
pilations. The Genealogical Society of
Utah is putting forth every effort to raise
funds to secure the general records of these
organizations. The work of salvation for
the dead was compared with our missionary
work. It was stated that we are spending
hundreds of thousands of dollars for the
preaching of the Gospel which is, of course,
very necessary; but what are we spending
in behalf of the dead?
	The quartet sang, "Who Are These Ar-
rayed in White?"
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was the next
speaker. She continued along the line of
Temple work and reported that a commit-
tee on Temple clothing, of which she was
chairman, had prepared Temple suits for the
use of those who desire to work in the Tem-
ple, and also suits for burial purposes.
	Violin solo, Romania Hyde.
	Closing hymn, "God Moves in a Mys-
terious Way."
	Benediction, Mrs. Rebecca Standring,
President Alpine Stake.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Congregation sang, "Our Mountain
Home So Dear."
	Prayer, Alvira Cox of South Sanpete
Stake.
	Singing, "Come, Come Ye Saints."
	Mrs. Susan Grant of the General Board
bore her testimony to the truthfulness of
the Gospel and the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	She was followed by Margaret Manning
of Bear River Stake, who reported her stake
in good condition. She stated that on
March 17, 1912, all the wards in the Bear
River Stake had uniform programs which
were printed and given to the members as
souvenirs.
	Soprano solo, "Teach Me to Pray," was
given by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, after
which Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert addressed
the assembly. She felt it a great privilege
to work in the Relief Society organization
and bore testimony to the great good done
by this organization. Urged the members

[Column 3]
to be diligent in training their children and
to set the children a good example.
	President Joseph F. Smith then addressed
the congregation on the importance of Relief
Society work, and the duties and responsi-
bilities of its members. He stated that he
has always maintained that the Relief So-
ciety organization is one of the most im-
portant organizations in the Church. It in-
augurated a movement in favor of women
that had never been known before. Its ob-
jects and purposes are among the greatest
that affect the well-being, happiness and
prosperity of the human family. It is a
pleasure to know that the organizations in
both stakes and wards are actively engaged
in the work at hand. This work is like all
the rest of the labors and responsibilities of
women. It has no specific period of begin-
ning and we don't know when it will end.
"Man's work is from sun to sun, but wom-
an's work is never done." The labor, duty,
and responsibility involved in the work are
of the nature that appeals and applies to
the character of womankind. The members
never know when they will be appealed to
for aid or counsel. Their services are al-
ways in demand. Their duties are mul-
titudinous and will continue as long as we
are mortal and are possessed of human
weaknesses and necessities. The sisters are
important help in the work of the Lord.
The Kingdom of God could not prosper and
flourish but for the mothers and daugh-
ters. "Man is not without the woman and
woman is not without the man in the Lord."
It is as necessary for mothers in Zion as
for fathers—certainly there would be no
fathers without mothers. We cannot do
without each other, mother and father,
brother and sister, are equally essential in
building up Zion.
	President Smith referred very feelingly
to his own mother who was a faithful
woman and Latter-day Saint. She was
patient, forbearing and long-suffering, and
she taught her children to love the Gospel
and to be true to the Church; and every one
has been true according to his knowledge.
Mothers should realize the great responsi-
bility resting upon them as mothers. The
influence of the mother during the youth of
her children is greater than that of any one
else. The child grows up into her like-
ness, thoughts, religion, sympathy and de-
sires and a very great deal depends on the
training the mother gives, before the child
is responsible for its own acts. Some par-
ents are fortunate in the training of their
children, and some are unfortunate not-
withstanding the fact that they have done
their best. When parents have done their
duty, taught their children the truth, taught
them to pray and to have faith in God, and
have brought them to manhood and woman-
hood, their responsibility ends; and if the
children (after all this training and example,
by those who have loved them more than
their own lives) should go astray the re-
sponsibility falls on their own shoulders and
the parents will not be blamed for it. It
is only when parents have been derelict in
their duty that the responsibility falls back
on them. What a blessed condition when
the children have kept the faith and have
been obedient to their parents! One of the
duties of the members of this organization
is to help others in the rearing of their
children. All members should be diligent


[Column 1]
teachers and extend their influence to
others. The Relief Society workers should
be prudent, they should look after the essen-
tial part of the work. The purpose of or-
ganization was not to enrich any one; it is
not a money-getting institution for means
to be spent in pleasure. The means is used
for the legitimate purposes for which it is
gathered. It is not for the well, the strong,
the able; it is for the poor and helpless; but
it is better to help those who do not deserve
than to under-help the needy ones. All
who are in need should be helped even if
they are not Latter-day Saints. It is our
duty to help them, to minister to them and to
teach them the principles of the Gospel.
Nobody in need should be neglected.
	President Smith asked the Lord to bless
the sisters in their homes and in their work
abroad. The mothers in Israel should be
as good as they expect their husbands to be,
and the husbands should be as good as they
expect their wives to be.
	Contralto solo, “The Earth is the Lord’s,”
by Dot McMillan Bolto.
	President E. B. Wells felt highly honored
that President Smith took time to favor us
with this splendid address, and she was sure
we would always remember and appreciate
this courtesy shown to us.
	The following presidents of stakes spoke
briefly on the general work of the organiza-
tion and gave reports of conditions in their
respective stakes:
	Sisters Rebecca Standring of Alpine
stake; Minerva Knowlton of Davis; Sarah
Stohl of Boxelder, and Leonora T. Har-
rington of Granite.
	Duet, “God Be With You Till We Meet
Again,” by Lizzie Thomas Edward and Dot
McMillan Bolto.
	Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Priscilla P. Jennings.
		SECOND DAY.
	MORNING SESSION, 10 A. M.
	April 4, 1912. After singing, “Re-
deemer of Israel,” opening prayer was of-
fered by Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
Piano duet, from Hayden’s second sym-
phony, given by Miss Edna Coray and Mrs.
Orpha R. Walker.
	Congregation sang, “Softly Beams the
Sacred Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a brief

[Column 2]
address in which she expressed her appre-
ciation of the tributes paid her on her re-
cent birthday anniversary, for which she ten-
dered heartfelt thanks. She prayed that
the Lord would give her a sense of grati-
tude and charity that she might give out all
that is best in her to the sisters of this great
organization.
	Mrs. Hannah M. Crosby, president of
Panguitch stake, gave a favorable report of
the Relief Society in that stake. Spoke of
the fine attendance at their regular meetings
and the great interest manifested in the
work.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates of the General
Board delivered an address on “Life,” deal-
ing with the subject from the standpoint
of a Latter-day Saint. Our life before we
came here is forgotten but it was as tangi-
ble as it is today. We understood and
longed for more light and when it was
given us we came here as little children and
had forgotten everything. “My heart
swells with gratitude that I was permitted
to come here under the covenant of the
Priesthood and that I value life as it should
be valued.” The Latter-day Saints have
been given light and truth. No one else
believes that we had an individual con-
sciousness before we came here. The Chris-
tian and heathen world believe that there
was a great spirit and that we are tiny
sparks from this spirit. We, each of us,
come here with individual life—we come, it
is true, in the darkness and gloom, we go
through childish sorrow, maturity and
motherhood, but life grows deeper and rich-
er with all these experiences. Life brings
great responsibility with it—responsibility,
pain, suffering and worry. Many people
and several sects believe that we should
steel ourselves against pain and worry; but
pain and worry are part of our lives and
through them we are developed and purified.
When we see women like our president who
have passed through sorrow and affliction
and have remained true and faithful to the
end we should feel that we are willing to
go through the same experiences if we can
reach the point they have reached.
	Brother Walter Wallace sang a solo,
“Come Holy Spirit,” after which reports
were given by Mary Ollerton of Parowan
stake and Jennie Potter of Carbon stake.
	Two musical numbers were then given on
the violin by Prof. Willard Weihe, accom-
panied by Prof. J. J. McClellan. Mr.
Weihe played “Russian Airs” and “The
Cradle Song,” which he also played before
President Taft at the White House during
the eastern tour of the tabernacle choir. A
rising vote of thanks was given the
musicians.
	Sister Marilla Daniels of Provo was
called upon to give reminiscences of the
Prophet Joseph Smith with whom she was
personally acquainted. She told of his
many fine qualities and of his wonderful
perseverance and faith. She related many
incidents in which the Prophet figured and
stated that she was one of those who saw
him at his home after his martyrdom. This
sad death was a thing she could not be
reconciled to for years. She heard Joseph
Smith prophesy that the Saints would be
driven to the Rocky Mountains and would
there build up a great commonwealth. Bore
a strong testimony to the divinity of the
mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	The congregation sang, “How Firm a

[Column 3]
Foundation,” and the session closed with
prayer by Sister Romania B. Penrose.
	AFTERNOON SESSION, 2 P. M.
	Congregation, “Come Let Us Anew.”
Prayer, Sister Alice M. Horne. Singing,
“Praise to the Man.”
	President Wells stated that recently the
Church had had the opportunity of prepar-
ing a brief history of the Church for the
Appleton Company’s Encyclopoedia, and
that the Relief Society was given the priv-
ilege of furnishing a sketch of 3,000 words
on the history of our organization during the
seventy years of its existence; also 500
words each on the biographies of the five
presidents of our organization. The sketch
and the biographies had been prepared un-
der the direction of President Wells, ap-
proved by the First Presidency and sent
on for publication.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde, who has recently
been appointed a missionary on the General
Board, briefly addressed the assembly. She
felt delighted to be numbered with those
who were associated in a work of charity
and love; in fact, she felt that this was the
most joyful moment of her life and ex-
pressed her great desire to do all in her
power to assist in the work of the Relief
Society.
	A soprano solo, “O, Loving Father,” was
then given by Lizzie Thomas Edward.
The remainder of the time was turned over
for testimony bearing and the following
sisters bore testimonies: Sister Emily S.
Richards, Sister Head from Preston, Sister
Ellsworth, Sister Brown of Salt Lake, Sis-
ter Chas. D. Evans, Sister Romania B. Pen-
rose and others.
	A trio, “God Be Merciful,” was sung by
Lizzie Thomas Edward, Evan Arthur and
Ralph Siddoway.
	Elder James E. Talmage spoke of the
wonderful work accomplished by the Relief
Society. No organization in the Church
receives more admiration from the world
than this. The name is very suggestive
and well fitted for a society which so un-
selfishly gives aid and relief to all who apply
for it. He felt that the Lord smiles on this
work and urged the sisters to continue to
be diligent workers.
	After singing by a mixed quartet, “Prov-
idence is Over All,” meeting adjourned until
October, 1912.
	Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Rebecca N. Nibley.
		AMY BROWN LYMAN,
				Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MARY A. FREEZE.
Our friend! our comrade since our early youth,
Our precious sister in the Cause of Truth;
The one beloved in sacred, tender bond
Hath left us here, hath passed to the beyond.
It seems but yesterday we clasped her hand,
So late we listened to her cheering voice;
'Tis hard for human hearts to understand
And even in God's providence rejoice.
Yet could we know to what immortal bliss
Our loved ones pass when called from world
	like this,
Our tears would cease to flow, we'd feel a
	peace supreme,
We'd know God's promises were not a fleeting
	dream—
That Death is Life! the passing a transition
From pain to peace, from woe to an eternal joy
Where progress never has remission,
The Gold of life is found without alloy.
—E. R. Shipp.


When women cannot vote the ship of state
is like the steamship "Titanic," with only
half enough life boats.—Woman's Journal.
	The Chicago Record Herald announces
that one whole page of the Sunday edition
will hereafter be devoted to equal suffrage.
Many express their appreciation.
	Julia C. Lathrop, of Chicago, an asso-
ciate of Jane Addams in the work at Hull
House, a member of the Illinois board of
charity and a graduate and trustee of Vas-
sar College, has been appointed by Presi-
dent Taft as chief of the new children's
bureau in the department of commerce and
labor. Miss Lathrop is the first woman to
be made a bureau chief under the govern-
ment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, U[-]ah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH - APRIL 1912


THE TITANIC. 
	Of all the disasters of the sea of which 
we have record, none is so appalling as the 
one that occurred on the night of April 14, 
when the great ocean liner “Titanic” struck
a huge iceberg off the banks of Newfound-
land and in less than three hours had been 
swallowed up by the ocean with a vast cargo 
of human freight, more than fifteen hundred 
souls going down into the icy waters with 
the mighty ship. The details of this terrible 
disaster, one of the worst in the world’s
history, are too terrible even to contem-
plate—one stands aghast at its awfulness. 
Calamities like these impress one anew with 
the utter insignificance of man and man’s
power in any measuring of strength with 
the angry forces of nature. 
	A great vessel, supposed to be unsink-
able, equipped with all the latest and most
modern appliances, every luxury and con-
venience that human skill could devise, and 
yet on its very first voyage doomed 
to the depths of the sea! In such a 
tragedy one truly realizes that God 
is no respecter of persons and in His 
sight all men are equal. The gallant chiv-
alry and dignity of the men and the heroism 
of the women on board that ill-fated vessel 
will long be told in story and in song.
How the former parted with their loved ones 
and then stepped back, loading other women 
and children into the life boats and then 
calmly awaited their destiny—to be hurled 
into the sea, perchance if God so willed to 
reach a piece of wreckage and be saved by 
a passing vessel, or to be buried in the 
waves to await that day when the sea will 
be called upon to give up its dead. The 
civilized world is shocked beyond words 
and the hearts of the people are filled with 
a desire to do some good for those who 
having been saved find themselves without 
means and bereft of loved ones. The Red 
Cross Society of America can surely now
find plenty of work relieving these un-
fortunates and the people have already 
shown how gladly they will help by their 
liberal donation of means. 
	So sudden was the impact of the 
ice and so complete the wreck that 
had it not been for that most mar-
vellous of all recent inventions, wireless
telegraphy, it is doubtful if a single soul
would be alive to tell the story. But by 
this means the ship’s distress was signalled


many miles and the nearest ship, the “Car-
pathia,” rescued those found on life boats 
and rafts in the early morning, though the 
great ship and most of her passengers had 
gone down into a watery grave long hours 
before. The rescued ones say just as the 
lights went out they heard the band playing
“Nearer, My God, to Thee”—a crowning
touch of pathetic resignation that can hardly 
be thought of without tears!


[Column 1]
	OUR TEMPLE OF THE DRAMA.
	A notable event in the history of Salt
Lake City occurred March 7 when the old
historic playhouse, the Salt Lake Theater,
celebrated its fiftieth anniversary. The event
brought to mind a flood of recollections, not
only to those few who now remain who were
present at the dedication and the first per-
formance, but to many of the next genera-
tion who, from early childhood, had been
frequent attendants among the audiences,
and sometimes had swelled the number of
supernumeraries in the fire scene in “The
Streets of New York,” or the Witches’
chorus in “Macbeth.” Of the few remain-
ing who took part on the first night, there
were only Hiram B. Clawson, Phillip Mar-
getts, Margaret Romney nee Thomas, and
Prof. Charles J. Thomas. It was with keen
regret the audience marked the absence of
David McKenzie, probably Utah’s most
gifted actor, whose sudden illness prevented
his being there and whose death occurred
a few days later. 
	As I sat in the audience with my mother,
I was not so much interested in the opera,
“Robin Hood,” being presented in a most
charming manner by the Salt Lake Opera
company, as in the audience itself; and when
all those present who attended the first per-
formance were asked to rise, my eyes were
dimmed with tears noting the changed faces,
the whitened hair, the furrowed brow, the
halting step. From that hour the opera did
not interest me; I forgot it and with closed
eyes, I looked back into the old Theater
with its long cushioned seats, its heavy
green curtain and its row of coal oil lamps
for footlights. We went in family groups
in those days, and a large part of the east
side was reserved for President Young’s
family, while my father’s seat was on the
west side of the railing which ran down
the center, No. 69. I remember that Presi-
dent Kimball’s was just in front, No. 68, and
I used as a little child to wonder if all the
Kimball family were tall dark boys because I
noted many times the seat had only men
folks, while my father’s just behind was
nearly filled with girls. The most striking
figure in all the audience was, of course,
President Young, whose keen enjoyment of
the play seemed always to enhance the in-
terest for others. Then there was always
my own father, the greatest lover of the
theater I ever knew. Among the attaches
none was more faithful than Brother Toms,
the doorkeeper, and after the building had
been renovated and refurnished, it seemed
as though it was incomplete without that
faithful monitor to receive our tickets and
afterwards keep order among the unruly
children who found their way inside.
	As in Macbeth’s dream, long lines of
personages pass before my gaze: Paunce-
fort; George Waldron in “Nick of the

[Column 2]
Woods;” George Teasdale as Hecate in
“Macbeth;” Julia Dean, Nellie Colebrook,
Asenath Adams, Susie Spencer, the bright
soubrette, “Toddy” Clive, the danseuse,
John C. Graham, Henry Maiben, and so on,
many familiar figures portraying before our
eyes tragedy, drama and comedy, and what
an education it was! People scarcely read
Shakespeare now, and yet in those old
theater days the stock companies regaled us
with the plays of Sheridan and Shakespeare
and other immortals until we children knew
them ourselves by heart. Perhaps one of the
most popular plays to the childish mind
was the “Octoroon” and certainly no one
who witnessed that play will ever forget
the splendid McCloskey of David McKen-
zie;” the Indian of oJhn T. Caine; the
Salem Scudder of John S. Lindsay, or the
post boy of Dellie Clawson.
	How the scenes shift, and now on the
stage appear Couldock and his frail daugh-
ter, who came here at last to die and found
a resting place on the eastern hillside.
Then the beautiful Annie Lockhart as
Parthenia, in “Ingomar,” and “Lady’s
Audley’s Secret,” and when she also died
while filling an engagement here it seemed
to me that one of the brightest stars had left
us. Later when “Jimmy” Harris was man-
ager, and we had a painted curtain and
the city boasted a gas plant, there came en-
tertainment in lighter vein and the little
girl’s eyes were dazzled and her brain be-
wildered by the transformation scenes of
“The Nymph of the Lurleiburg” and the
wondrous colors of the “Fairy Fountain”—
even in this day with all the wonderful
color effects produced by electricity the
colors of that fountain seem to me incom-
parably beautiful.
	But, goodness, the opera is over, the as-
bestos curtain has fallen and the dispers-
ing audience calls me back from my dreams.
As I rise in my seat I see the familiar form
of Hiram Clawson just passing out of his
seat a short distance before me, the last time
I ever looked upon him, for before a month
had passed he, too, had gone to join the
innumerable hosts on the other side.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


SUGGESTIONS FOR THE RELIEF
			SOCIETY.
	A short time before the recent conference
of the Relief Society, the General Board
discussed and agreed upon the propriety
of presenting some suggestions as to lines
of endeavor in stake and ward societies
outside of their regular routine work. A
committee of the board was appointed to
formulate such suggestions as might be
deemed timely and appropriate, and in due
time that committee made its report. This
report was aproved by the General Board
and later by the conference in the business
meeting; and is now given out in the sin-
cere hope that its suggestions will be found
interesting and helpful. It is as follows:

			PREAMBLE.
	Knowing that it is for a great and wise
purpose that we are permitted to live in this
probation, having assurance of a Divine
plan for our development, believing that
each individual must elevate himself by his
own faith and study and good works, but
having also evidence that the united effort


[Column 1]
of a multitude of individuals has often been
of great avail, in stimulating human prog-
ress by strengthening the cause of Truth
and Righteousness and in discouraging
ignorance and the march of Evil;
	We, therefore, the officers of the National
Woman’s Relief Society assembled, repre-
senting and acting in the name of 40,000
women, organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith for the relief of the distressed, the
amelioration of the oppressed, in the interest
of education, the best citizenship, and for
true charity; do hereinafter bring forward
ten suggestions, upon which our united
strength would be a mighty power for good
upon questions the solution of which seem
at this time to be especially expedient and
essential, inasmuch as they are calculated
to have a bearing upon the promotion of
public health, of civic beauty, of maintaining
the highest standard of purity in the home,
of greater faith, of the use of individual
gifts, a broader intelligence, and a more
deeply rooted spiritual growth, and will
thereby create opportunities for higher liv-
ing.

			LECTURES. 
	(1) We therefore suggest that each Relief
Society President of Stake, (aside from the
lectures given by missionaries from the Gen-
eral Board), shall provide for at least one
lecture by local talent on research which
shall pertain to either our religion, art,
invention, discovery, history, exploration or
travel, and also one lecture or a series of
lectures, by local talent, on a practical sub-
ject that is, or could be made to be, intensely
vital to the well-being of the people of that
Stake. We would suggest such subjects as
public health, scientific methods applied
to poultry raising, how to make the farm
pay, use and utility applied to house-
building and house furnishing, demonstra-
tions in cooking, sericulture, the best
adapted and most improved scions of fruit
for the locality in which they are to be
grown, methods by which large and small
weedy tracts, unused land, may be utilized,
the culture of the English walnut and al-
mond in our mountain climate, and the ne-
cessity of a vegetable garden. These lec-
tures may be given at the regular or special
Relief Society meetings in the Stake or
Ward.

			BALLOT.
	(2) We believe that a proper apprecia-
tion of the privilege of the ballot and its
sacred responsibility should be shown by ac-
tive use of the franchise in the interest of
better government, clean politics, the elimi-
nation of temptations and a more practical
education, which latter should be secured
by leaving out impractical routine lessons
and replacing the same by work to develop
individual gifts, for in this change we be-
lieve would be found the solution of the
large number of pupils now classed as
failures and would have a salutary effect
upon reform work that present conditions
make necessary. Why not direct the in-
terest and energy of the child who cannot
be made to fit the mould which in systems
of education all pupils are expected to fill,
toward something which he can do, some-
thing within his scope and power and some-
thing in the doing of which he will delight?

[Column 2]
Do we realize that these failures are many
of them children with gifts and original
powers?

		FOREIGN LANGUAGES.
	(3) We urge the teaching of a foreign
language in the school grades by at least
the conversational method. Language is
easily acquired by the very young child. At
high school age, when the boys and girls
begin with a foreign language, they are not
so receptive in this particular, and language
has become more difficult to master. Years
of study in high school and university
might be avoided if children could converse
at home or in school, or both, in foreign lan-
guages. We deprecate the fact that foreign
born parents do not always teach their chil-
dren the language of their fathers. A child
cannot be better equipped for an education
than to be started out with two, to say
nothing of three, speaking languages.

DESECRATION OF THE SABBATH.
	(4) We fear for the consequences of
and are shocked at the desecration of the
Sabbath day. How dreadful to think even
of a Sunday “vaudeville” and a Sunday ex-
cursion!
	We deplore the mad rage for public
amusement and advocate a more intellectual
line of recreation and enjoyment, something
that will tend to develop an attitude toward
special study, such as dramatic art, elocu-
tion, music both instrumental and vocal,
choral work, graceful dancing and love of
nature.  

		PUBLIC HEALTH.
	(5) The Prophet Joseph himself urged
upon this people to use every means in their
power to promote health and the prolonga-
tion of human life. We urge a closer study
of vital questions relative to home life and
health such as (a) nourishing foods; (b)
danger and results of the drug habit; (c)
abstinence from stimulating food and drink;
(d) proper dress; (e) need for fresh air;
(f) the habit of walking and correct car-
riage and their influence upon our physical
well-being; (g) proper screening to protect
from flies and other insects; (h) methods
by which the housefly, carrier of the typhoid
and other diseases, may be eliminated from
the usual breeding places; and (i) value
of out of door sports.

	COMPETENCE AND THRIFT.
 	(6) Every individual should be an asset
to the community in which he resides and it
is our duty to do all that is possible toward
teaching the able-bodied who are not “mak-
ing good” how to become at least self-sup-
porting. Teach that every soul should per-
form a just portion of labor. Let us en-
courage the habit of depositing a little in a
savings bank. If all would learn and prac-
tice saving, the state would be without
paupers. Discourage greed, graft, slothful-
ness, wastefulness and extravagance.. En-
courage industry and thrift and the habit of
tithing. Remember what President John
Henry Smith said to us last Conference:
“An idler, man or woman, is a menace to the
community in which he or she resides.”

[Column 3]
		TREE PLANTING.
	(7) The poet wrote, “He who plants a
tree lives forever.” We would impress upon
you the necessity for the planting of trees,
for grove making and for forest building.
Plant the Lombardy poplar for fuel, six
trees, after a few years growth, furnish a
home with wood. The locust is even better
for fence posts than cedar. There are so
many unused spots, whole lots and corners,
upon which groves of locusts could be raised
for fencing. The English walnut and al-
mond for nut growing may now become a 
reality. The walnut furnishes a beautiful
material for cabinet work. Any and all
hardwood trees, the maple, ash, oak, mahog-
any and walnut are good to plant, for they
rapidly enhance the value of land; in fact,
every year’s growth adds greatly to its
money value. The hardwood varieties are
ideal for shade and what is more charming
than the cherry and plum and apple in blos-
som? Then the fruit trees—remember we
have set a high standard here and there can
be no turning back. We must study the best
varieties adapted to the localities in which
they shall be planted.

		NEEDLE WORK AND ART.
	(8) We believe in the work of the hand,
we believe in the work of the machine, we
believe in the work of the brain, but we
recognize that when the hand and brain
unite and the hand lovingly does the bidding
of the brain then labor is exalted into art
and the laborer becomes greater than his
hire. The people of these mountain states
have gifts, let us advise that they use them.
Let there be a renewal, a revival, of all hand- 
work, hand-sewing, and embroidery, knit-
ting, designing, crocheting, lace making—
the pillow lace being not forgotten—rag car-
pet, and rag rugs in washable lengths for
bath rooms, and covers for trunks and
tables; the spinning and weaving, smaller
hat making, the designing and making of
dresses, painting and design for house
decoration and for illustration. Let us not
forget that sericulture is our industry and
should be restored. The special prize of-
fered for the best half-acre of potatoes
raised by a boy should help us to interest
our sons in scientific farming. Teach the
girls how to make their own clothing.

		HOME MANUFACTURE.
	(9) We pledge our support to home
manufacture.
	(10) Above all we should surround our-
selves and our families with an atmosphere
of faith, integrity and honesty, and by all
means in our power preserve the health and
virtue and faith of our children. 
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE,
						Chairman.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PENROSE,
	ELIZABETH CAINE CRIMSON,
	EDNA MAY DAVIS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A friend whom you have been gaining
during your whole life you ought not to be
displeased with in a moment. A stone is
many years becoming a ruby; take care that
you do not destroy it in an instant against
another stone.—Saadi.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REMINISCENCES OF MRS. A. AGATHA
			PRATT.
	I do not think it necessary to speak at
this time of the public life of my husband,
the late Apostle Parley P. Pratt, as that is a
matter of history known to his descendants
and the readers of his life and his works.
	As an orator, author, poet, statesman, and
able expounder of the Gospel and its prin-
ciples, which he so dearly loved, he will ever
live in the memory of those who have heard
him, and will become more precious as the
years roll on.
	For the sake of his descendants and in
justice to his beloved and venerated mem-
ory, I wish to speak of his private life; as a
husband, father, and friend. He was a
gentleman, born so. He had an innate reve-
rence and respect for woman as the mother
of the souls of men. He loved his wives,
not only as the beloved of his bosom, but
as the mothers of his children, whom he
loved very dearly. I heard a lady ask him,
“Brother Pratt, when did you first fall in
love?” He replied, “When I was a babe
in my mother’s arms, and looked up into
her tender loving eyes, I fell in love, and
have been in love ever since.” 
	Amid all our poverty, toil and care and
the difficulties and perplexities and inex-
periences, he would sometimes have occa-
sion to reprove or admonish; he would do
it in a manner to touch the heart—make a
lasting impression, but never leave a hu-
miliating sting.
	His wives always knew that he respected
them and cared for their feelings. As a
father, he was kind and gentle and hailed
each new-comer with as much pleasure and
delight as if it were the only one. One of
the greatest pleasures of his life was to
gather them round his knees, holding as
many as he could, and have them sing their
sweet childish songs, often trying to join
in with them, as he dearly loved music and
singing, and always, when possible, he
would have his family gather together for
family worship; we would always sing a
suitable hymn, then kneel down and dedi-
cate his family, himself and all he had, to
the Lord.
	As a friend, he was true, sincere and very
hospitable. In times of famine and scarci-
ty when sometimes we would not know
where the next meal was coming from, he
would say, “If any one comes in hungry,
ask them to sit up and eat.”
	His confidence in God was unbounded,
and he would go to Him and ask Him for
what he needed, as a child would go to its
father, with the same childlike simplicity.
I have seen his prayers answered almost
before he had finished his supplication. He
was very sociable, in those early days we
used to visit a good deal, we seemed to have
more time then than we have now. Two 
or three of us would go with him to some
friend’s house, where, in the course of con-
versation, he would be led to speak upon
some interesting subject that would instruct
and entertain all, and make the time pass
very profitably and pleasantly, and it still
remains as a happy memory to the few of
those dear old friends who still survive.
	Mr. Pratt was the father of thirty chil-
dren, fifteen sons and fifteen daughters,
twenty-three of whom survived him.
	I do not know how many descendants
there are; I have myself over a hundred.
	There were five brothers:—Anson, Wil-

[Column 2]
liam, Parley, Orson and Nelson; the last 
named never received the Gospel, so never
came to Utah. When my husband was on
his last mission, he visited him and he told
me in one of his letters of his pleasant visit
with him and his family, and that two of
his daughters were very sweet singers. I
find by referring to his letter that he stayed
with them about a week, and said they were
quite favorable to the Gospel. At the time
of his visit they were living in Ohio.
	I now wish to speak of his last mission.
Many have labored under the impression
that he was not called, but sought to go.
There never was a greater mistake. In the
spring of ’56 he had severe illness brought
on by over-doing mentally and physically,
and suffered more or less from the effects of
it through the summer. He came into my
house one day about the middle of August,
and said to me, “Agatha, I have bad news
for you.” I was just recovering from my
confinement, our youngest child, now Mrs.
F. C. Woods, having been born on the 8th
day of August. His words and manner sent
a strange thrill through me. I said, “What is
it?” He replied, “I am called to go on a
mission.” I said, “Why do you call it bad
news? You have been on missions be-
fore.” He said, “Because I feel as if I shall
never come back.” I said, “Why do you feel
like that; you’ve been delivered from mob
violence and from prison and been pre-
served till now—what do you think can
happen to you?” He replied, “I do not
know; perhaps the Indians may kill me or
some accident may happen.” He said, “I
asked President Young what I was to do
and why he sent me as there were already
three of the Twelve in the States.” Elder
John Taylor was publishing “The Mormon”
in New York, Erastus Snow “The Lumi-
ary” in St. Louis, and Brother George A.
Smith was visiting the different branches
of the Church in the East. He said, “Bro-
ther Parley, you need a rest, and a change;
you can assist Brothers Taylor and Snow
and visit the Saints and instruct them by
their firesides, and do much good in many
ways.”
	He went busily to work preparing for his
mission. In a few days he came in and said,
“I have been to the President’s office and
been set apart for my mission. The Presi-
dency were Brigham Young, Heber C. Kim-
ball, and Jedediah Grant, and they placed
their hands upon my head, President Young
being mouth. He confirmed all former
blessings and ordinations heretofore given,
and promised many blessings for the future.
After he was through President Grant said,
‘Brother Parley, I would give a good deal
for one clause in your blessing?’ ‘What
was that, Brother Grant?’ He said, ‘Your
children shall be preserved unto you.’” He
seemed to realize it in its fullest sense.
	He felt more cheerful after he had re-
ceived his blessing, and went on with his
preparations for his journey. He attended
fast meeting the first Thursday in Septem-
ber, confirmed several of his children
whom he had baptized; named and blessed
the youngest and bore a faithful testimony.
	He started for his mission about the
14th, and arrived in the States in No-
vember. He wrote home to us frequent-
ly, and told us of his labors. In one of
his letters he spoke of the great darkness
and utter indifference in the minds of the
people regarding the Gospel, and made the

[Column 3]
remark that if it were not for the sake of
the Gospel and his family, he could change
worlds, with joy inexpressible.
	When the news of his death reached Salt
Lake City, the Presidency were spending
the holiday, July 24th, in Big Cottonwood
Canyon. As soon as they reached home,
they came to see us, and mingle their grief
and sorrow with ours.
	President Young said, referring to his
death: “Nothing has happened so hard to
reconcile my mind to, since the death of
Joseph; Brother Parley has done more good
on his short mission than many Elders will
do in their whole lives.”
	Mr. Pratt was one of the busiest and
hardest working men I ever knew. When
we were crossing the Plains, he drove the
largest wagon we had, with three yoke of
cattle; he would walk along side of them,
and the first thing you knew you would see
him three or four rods ahead. The slow
walk of the team could not keep pace with
his active mind. Often he would recollect,
turn back to his team, see that all was all
right, hurry them up, and do the same thing
again. When it came near camping time,
he would go ahead and look up a good place
for camping. His mind was ever on the
alert for the benefit of the company. When
we arrived here on the 28th of September,
we were tired and worn out, for the last
part of the journey was very hard on all.
	With little or no rest, he went to work
hunting up the resources of the country,
making roads to the canyons; getting out
logs for building houses; getting fire wood
and so on.
	He built several good comfortable log
rooms, a stable, put in a number of acres
of wheat; in fact, kept busy all the time.
He built four adobe houses, two of them
a story and a half, besides outbuildings;
made a road through Parley’s canyon; at-
tended faithfully to every ecclesiastical duty.
He went on two missions to California, in-
cluding Chile, South America, wrote and
published “The Key to Theology,” wrote
and compiled his Autobiography, besides
many other effusions in prose and verse.
	After the foregoing had been read to one
of my daughters, she said, “Why, mother,
you have not mentioned yourself.” I re-
plied, “No, I did not think of myself. I
was writing about your father.” She said,
“I think you ought to tell about being in
the canyon with father.”
	Well, he commenced his work on the
road in the summer of ’49. There were
a great many men in the east that had the
gold fever so bad that they left no stone
unturned to procure an outfit to get to the
gold mines of California, which had been
discovered by the Mormon Battalion boys.
	Many of them arrived in Salt Lake, utter-
ly worn out, and teams and wagons in bad
condition. They were obliged to stay a
while to get lighter wagons, exchange their
worn out horses (some were quite valuable)
for fresh ones. Some of them stayed over
to make a little means wherewith to prose-
cute their journey. Later on, these were
the men my husband hired to help make the
road through Parley’s Canyon. I went with
him to cook for them. Each man had his
own tin plate, cup, knife, fork, and spoon.
The food consisted mostly of bread baked
in bake kettle, meat, coffee and a little but-
ter. We had a small tent and a wagon to
sleep in. The men had a large tent to bunk


in and a long rough table to eat on. These
were at a distance from our quarters. I
would cook the food, and Mr. Pratt and
Parley, his son, would take it to them. We
would make camp in a shady place near the
creek. We would stay there till about two
miles of road was made, then move camp
and make another mile or two, and so on
through Parley’s Park to the Weber River,
where the road was completed, which was
some time in November. When we reached
the head of the canyon coming home, I said,
“Now let me get out and walk over the bad
places.” He said, “No, I want to be able
to say that a woman and baby came down
in safety.” (I forgot to say I had a babe
a year and a half old.) “I promise you no
harm shall happen to either of you.” I did
as he wished, and he drove the two yoke
of cattle with large wagons attached, to
the mouth of the canyon and home in per-
fect safety.
	I saw no wild beasts while there, but
often heard the wolves howl at night, and
would see their tracks. One day when
the men were busy chopping down trees
about a mile above the camp, a large griz-
zly bear came down the side of the canyon
towards the choppers. Each man grabbed
his axe, and climbed the nearest tree in a
lively manner. Mr. Bruin sniffed leisurely
around, looked at the men, then walked up
the other side over the top, and was seen
no more.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF 
		MARY A. FREEZE.
	Who departed this life January 21st,
1912, at Salt Lake City, Utah.
	In the death of our beloved friend and
fellow-member, we, the members of the
Utah Woman’s Press Club, feel to express
our sincere sympathy to the family of Sister
Freeze, in the loss they have sustained.
	To the Utah Woman’s Press Club she
was a source of joy and pleasure. Her
chair, now vacant, will bring sorrow to us,
reminding us that she will be with us no
more with her sweet smile and pleasing
presence. Yet we know the Divine Father
called her to adorn a holier place in His
eternal presence, and we bow to that de-
cree, but the memory of Mary Freeze shall
never die.

	She cast upon the waters daily bread,
	Shared her blessings freely everywhere;
	They now are multiplied upon her head,
	Eternal blessings now she’ll ever share.

	From her life we may learn the lessons
of truth and virtue. Life’s stream is fed by
many tributaries; but from the earliest pe-
riod of her life, only those which emanated
from pure sources had entrance. To those
who merely enter life’s stream, does not be-
long the honor of victory, but to those who
contend against its currents and win, be-
long all honor, all joy, all victory. This was
the portion of our sister, Mary Freeze. So
successfully did she contend that all of life’s
virtues finally gained entrance within her,
forming a fellowship, in which one kept the
others continually pulsating. A complete dif-
fusion of truth resulted, which obliterated
all dark channels from her character, mak-
ing her Truth’s conservative disciple. Thus
her life was replete in good works, that
must live though she has left us; they built

[Column 2]
their own monument not only in our hearts,
but in tangible results of her labors.
	May her family follow the course she set,
and may the members of the Utah Woman’s
Press Club live as truly.

We need not weep for her, my friends,
	She’s happier there than we can know;
The life like hers that upward tends,
	Knows naught of death—it hurries so.

It merely comes to cut the thread
	Of life, from this oft-changing earth;
To set it free from burdens here,
	That it might rise to higher birth.

The pure sweet face is smiling still,
	Her peaceful influence still lives there,
Those hands are not held by death’s chill,
	But kindred greetings still they share.

Behold the handmaid of the Lord!
	Could grander name in life be given?
We honor it with sweet accord,
	’Tis fit for noble guests of heaven.

Dear Mary lives with loved ones still,
	Her work up there in higher grade,
Promotion means—new hearts to fill
	With love and truth that ne’er shall fade.

So let us keep ourselves as just,
	By saying as she said always,
My heart is fixed, in God I trust, 
	His handmaid ever sings his praise.

If one deliberate wish expressed
	From any one of us tonight,
Could call her back again to earth 
	From where her spirit winged its flight,

Think you that she would want to come
	From that far brighter happier sphere?
No! call her not to earth again,
	She’s happier there than here.
					V. C. McCune.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
LIBERTY STAKE OFFICERS’ MEETING.
	At the Liberty Stake Relief Society meet-
ing held in the Ninth Ward meeting house
on Feb. 29th, President Annie S. Musser
presiding, a delightful afternoon was spent
in listening to sketches of the lives of Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells and Eliza R. Snow.
The former was given by Sister Sarah
Swift, and hymns that Sister Wells had
composed were read by Sister Emma Car-
ter. Sister Ida B. Spiers gave a sketch
of the life of Sister Snow followed by
Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley who recited
a poem composed by Sister Snow. Sister
Eva James sang, “O My Father.” All the
hymns sung were composed by Sisters Wells
and Snow.
			LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.

		ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Re-
lief Societies of the St. Joseph Stake con-
vened at the Layton meeting-house, March
10th, 1912. The morning session was of a
business character, relating to our statis-
tical and financial affairs. Reports from the
different wards showed an increase of at-
tendance and interest since the New Year
began. The lessons from the Primer of
Sanitation are welcomed among the dif-
ferent societies, and a great deal of enthu-
siasm exhibited. Other subjects were taken
up and discussed, viz.: The storing of grain
and the advisability of building a steel ele-
vator; the different lessons and how to get

[Column 2]
the best results from their study; the duty
of mothers; the influence our organizations
should have, not only at home for good,
but abroad as well; temple work and the
necessity of teaching our sons and daugh-
ters that it is best to begin life aright by
being married in the temple, etc. Presi-
dent Elizabeth W. Layton presided at this
meeting. A number of the brethren were
present and gave valuable assistance. Jo-
sephine Kimball gave a short talk, also
Sister Mary Ransome of the Union Stake.
	After benediction by Bishop Tyler, meet-
ing adjourned till 2 p. m.
	The time of the afternoon meeting was
given over to the Relief Society, after the
administration of the Sacrament by the
ward authorities. The presidency of the
stake, and many prominent men were pres-
ent. First Counselor Selena Phillips pre-
sided. The Academy band, led by Prof.
Claydon, discoursed several beautiful selec-
tions. Prof. E. M. W. Jones assisted with
the singing, and Mrs. Fred. Jacobson ren-
dered a sacred solo. In her opening re-
marks, President E. W. Layton welcomed
all the sisters, urged that we be faithful in
our duties and to the Priesthood of God.
Touched upon the subject of tithing, child-
culture, keeping holy the Sabbath day, and
exhorted all to faithfulness and diligence.
A lesson talk on disease germs and the pre-
vention of diseases was given in an inter-
esting manner by Sister Henrietta Nash.
Sister Ransome bore a faithful testimony,
and gave words of love and encourage-
ment. Sister Alice K. Beebe, president of
the Layton Ward Relief Society, who is
soon to make her home in a different stake,
said how much the sisters had become en-
deared to her heart; that she loved to work
with them for they were a noble band, and
no matter where her lot was cast, she would
always look back with pleasure on her work
in the Relief Society in this part of the
Lord’s vineyard. She bore her testimony.
Second Counselor Frances W. Kimball gave
an eulogistic talk on the life of our beloved
“Aunt Em,” which was followed by one
of her beautiful poems, read with much
feeling by Sister Ella Birdno. President
Nash quoted, “Be ye perfect, even as our
Father is heaven is perfect,” and made a
splendid and encouraging talk relative to
the duties of the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety. He also emphasized what had been
said in regard to sanitation, showing in
many instances where knowledge of the
causes of disease was to have power over
them. Invoked heaven’s blessings upon the
Relief Society organizations.
	Conference was adjourned for six
months. The benediction was pronounced
by President Charles M. Layton.
		JOSEPHINE C. KIMBALL,
						Secretary.


IMPROVE HELL’S GATE.
MISS MARY JOHNSTON COMMENTS HUMOR-
	OUSLY ON TERTULLIAN’S DESCRIPTION OF
		WOMAN AS “THE GATE OF HELL.”
	Under the enigmatic title, “Wanted, An
Architect,” Miss Mary Johnston’s name was
on the program to give an address at the re-
cent National Suffrage Convention in Louis-
ville, Ky. It was awaited with great in-
terest. She spoke as follows:


[Column 1]
	“Woman,” says St. Thomas Aquinas,
“Woman is a rapidly growing weed, an im-
perfect being! Her body attains maturity
more rapidly than man’s only because it is
of less value, and Nature is engaged less in
her making. Women are born to be eter-
nally maintained under the yoke of their
lords and masters, who are endowed by Na-
ture with superiority in every respect, and
therefore destined to rule.”
	“Woman,” thunders Tertullian, “Woman!
you ought to go about clad in mourning and
in rags, your eyes filled with tears of re-
morse, to make us forget that you have been
mankind’s destruction! Woman, you are
the Gate of Hell!”
	What I wish to do for a few minutes is
gravely to consider how we can improve this
so-called Gate of Hell. * *
	I would educate her—educate her high-
ly, educate her deeply, educate her broad- 
ly. I would let up on accomplishments.
Less embroidery, more physics, chem-
istry and biology; less bridge, more
mathematics, history and philosophy; less
Sordello, more economics and sociology;
fewer chafing-dish recipes, and more do-
mestic science; fewer pseudo-graces, and
more knowledge and love of humanity; less
talk about great names, and more familiar-
ity with what made them great; far less of
the purely feminine, and far more of the
highly human.
	As a man thinketh so he is. As a woman
thinketh so she is. The mind becomes that
which it contemplates. Regard the wide
universe, not with a vacant and idle stare,
but ponderingly; sooner or later you will be-
come universal. Look always upon a sphere
small in diameter, small in circumference,
and your mind will hold that sphere and no
more. It may have its beauty, that asteroid,
its hothouse flowers and its Chinese trees,
but you will miss the stars at midnight, the
salt of the sea, and the winds that blow
from afar.
	The intuitive power of woman is very
great. When to this is added intellectual
power, when the vine of the mind, which in
woman has been made for countless gen-
erations to lie prone, to run idly, to waste all
its strength and sweetness—when the vine
of her mind is raised, trained upon the trellis
of knowledge, watered, warmed, enriched,
tended, kept in the sunshine of companion-
ship, of broad thinking, of great social and
human ideals, then, indeed, will we build
her up with nobility and with power!
Train her mind, teach it broad and altruistic
thinking, open to it the doors of human ex-
perience, change it from a bit of carbon in
a forgotten room to a noble, flashing jewel,
from a small, stagnating pool to a crystal
spring giving life and joy to all the fields
around, and, strange and strange to say, in
the measure that you mete to woman, in
that measure will enlightenment be meted to
the human race. Give to her the breadth
which comes from communion, not with one
or two, but with many minds, give her free-
dom of thought, give her the larger touch,
the vital warmth, the electric spark, give her
largeness of horizon, give her light—and in
just that degree and measure will you give
to the human species breadth and sweep and
vital warmth and growth and light! 
	Sometimes, even under the heavy beams
and rafters with which the ages have closed
her in; under the roof, so pretty sometimes
with gables and bright tiles and flower-pots
and tinkling bells like a pagoda, and some-

[Column 2]
times so very sordid and horrible, sometimes
even under that roof the mother of human-
ity dreams a dream and sees a vision.
	She sees health and wisdom and happi-
ness. She sees a poison field being made a
garden. She sees two gardeners who work
side by side. She sees the flowers that they
plant and the weeds that they pluck up. She
sees uprooted and destroyed the nightshade
of intemperance, lust, mania, uncontrolled
appetite; uprooted and destroyed the harsh,
swarth dock leaves of poverty; uprooted
and destroyed the tares of idleness, self-
indulgence and folly. She sees flowers
and fruit trees and waving grain, and two
gardeners who grow in stature.
	Sometimes her vision deepens, and then
she sees a race that shall be to the race of
today as demi-gods and goddesses, as strong
angels of the four winds. She sees physical
beauty, pure and strong, sublime and tender!
She sees clear eyes, and nerves like fine steel,
and a brain that shall cope at last with the
world. She sees hands that shake not and
feet that are firm. She sees great artists in
conduct, crystal simplicity, sincerity in all
things. She sees the human will, clear and
strong at last as the lightning brand, and she
sees it directed to mighty ends. She sees
great health and beauty and knowledge and
happiness and eternal growth!
	My third and last specification for the
new gateway of the nations is a great and
loving heart. Oh, I know that “Hell Gate”
is said already to possess it! All manner of
evil has been spoken of her, but that one
thing is rarely said. She is not called
hard of heart. Her tender heart—her gen-
tle heart—her loving heart! It is proverbial.
The poets sing of it. And yet—and yet!
If, in this world of the beginning of the
twentieth century, she is not hard of heart—
I speak broadly, of this Gate in the mass
as it were—what is she? Dull? Unawak-
ened? “Oh,” cries someone, “neither dull
nor unawakened nor hard of heart in her
own home and to her neighbors.”
	And Jesus, answering, said: A certain
man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho
and fell among thieves, which stripped him
of his raiment, and wounded him and de-
parted, leaving him half dead.
	And by chance there came down a cer-
tain priest that way; and when he saw him
he passed by on the other side.
	And likewise a Levite when he was at the
place, came and looked on him, and passed
by on the other side.
	But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed,
came where he was; and when he saw him
he had compassion on him.
	And went to him, and bound up his
wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set
him on his own beast, and brought him to
an inn, and took care of him. 
	And on the morrow when he departed he
took out two pence and gave them to the
host, and said unto him, Take care of him,
and whatever thou spendest more, when I
come again I will repay thee.
	Which now of these three, thinkest thou,
was neighbor unto him who fell among the
thieves?
	And he said, He that showed mercy on
him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go thou
and do likewise.
	Woman is the mother of humanity.
	All the men and all the women that ever
were, or are, or will be; all the heroes, all
the saints and sages, all the downtrodden

[Column 3]
and oppressed, all the rich, all the poor, all
the criminal, all the maimed, the queen on
her throne, the woman at the cotton loom,
the Sister of Charity, the Red Cross nurse,
the girl on the streets, the man of the hour,
the derelict in prison—all, all are bone of
her bone and flesh of her flesh, borne nine
months within her body, nursed at her breast,
cradled within her arms. All, all are our
children, and we are as universal as Nature.
Care for our own? Then must we care for
the whole wide earth. Kindly to our neigh-
bors? When did we last see the neighbor
in the sweat shop? The neighbor in the night
court? The little neighbor in the cotton mill?
Serve the world by bringing forth children?
Yes, but what kind of children, and to what
end? Keep the home? The world is our
home. The child that clings to your skirts?
What right have you to betray him and to
leave him when he is grown?
	Oh, woman, woman! We have been
a slave in Egypt to that notion of Tertul-
lian’s long enough! We are not Hell Gate.
At the worst we were never that. There
have been lovers, there have been poets,
there have been sons and daughters who
knew it. There have been some to call us
Heaven Gate.

“The Woman Soul leads us upward and on.”

	But we are not Heaven Gate, either. We
are human beings, the child and the mother
of human beings, and that is miracle enough.
What is a human being? It is something
that has come out of a lower and mounts
toward a higher. It is something that moves
through a wondrous drama toward a tre-
mendous destiny. It is something that
grows from within.
	Keeping the old name for a moment, we
may say that the building of this new
Gate differs from all other architectural
propositions. Gates of stone and marble are
made from without. The new gate must be
built without hands, and the architect lodges
within. That architect can do what she will.
There is no real limit; all limits are fanciful.
She can do what she will, and now the thing
of all others to be desired is that she shall
WILL it!—The Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Toronto now has six women suffrage
clubs. A new one was formed a few days
ago.
	A larger percentage of the registered
women than of the registered men voted
at the recent school election in Seattle.
	In France a bill has been introduced to
grant municipal suffrage to women. A pe-
tition for giving them the parliamentary vote
has been accepted by the committee of the
chamber, and 24 members of parliament are
said to have pledged themselves to the meas-
ure.
	Miss Alice M. Broughton is the superin-
tendent of luncheons for the Home and
School League of Philadelphia, which has
just issued its first annual report on its
work in serving luncheons in the public
schools of that city. The luncheons are di-
vided into two classes, one costing one cent,
the other three cents. During a single
month 8,052 one-cent and 800 three-cent
luncheons were served in a single school.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State of the Nation.

Vol. 40.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1912						No. 9.


[Column 1]
		THE “EXPONENT.”
	On the first day of June, nineteen hun-
dred twelve, the WOMAN’S EXPONENT will
have reached its fortieth anniversary. Meas-
ured by human life and accomplishment,
forty years is a long time. Forty years
the children of Israel wandered in the wil-
derness. Forty years
elapsed between the
laying of the corner
stone and the laying
of the capstone of the
Salt Lake Temple. So
forty years represents
a goodly age for a
periodical, especially
such forty as those
last past. What a vast
amount of history this
little sheet has been
able to accumulate
and record! What
changes in the world’s
condition! What dis-
coveries of new lands,
new elements! What
linking of nations
with steel and wire,
the overthrow of
kingdoms and princi-
palities and the build- 
ing up of new and
broader government!
What marvelous de-
velopment in art, sci-
ence, and literature, 
and the greatest pos-
sible educational ad-
vancement! Aye, this
little eight-page pa-
per has chronicled
from year to year
such interesting and
worthy knowledge
that the yellow lines
of its bound volumes
are more precious
than fine gold.
	Its pages have
largely been devoted
to the progress, ad-
vancement, and work
of women; that
knowledge in itself is
a marvel to contem-
plate, for forty years
ago woman did not
hold in the world’s
activities a very en-
larged place. In Jan-
uary, 1870, the legis-
lature of the Terri-
tory of Utah passed an
act enfranchising the women of this com-
monwealth. The act was duly signed by
acting Governor Mann, the Federal ap-
pointee of President Ulysses S. Grant, and
at a municipal election the following month
the women cast their first ballot. Miss
Seraph Young, a grand-niece of President
Brigham Young, was the first woman in

[Column 2]
the territory to cast a ballot at a general
election.
	The women of Utah had always taken an
active part in the settlement and develop-
ment of the community, and through their
splendid organization, the Relief Society,
had wielded a strong and forceful influence;
so when the suffrage was given them the

[caption to a blank image space]
“THE EXPONENT,” FORTY YEARS AGO.

time was surely ripe for a woman’s paper
wherein they might better tell to those in
the world who would read, the truth about
their condition, sentiments and position. Ed-
ward L. Sloan, the gifted editor of the Salt
Lake Herald, was probably the one who
took the initiative in the matter. Realizing
that the time was propitious and the field in-

[Column 3]
viting, he suggested the thought to Miss
L. Lula Greene, a young writer of promise,
of starting a woman’s paper. Miss Greene
was a grand-niece of President Brigham
Young, and she immediately wrote her uncle
a letter for advice in the matter. He sent for
Eliza R. Snow and other leading women,
and put the matter before them. The result
of the conference was
the starting of a pa-
per and Miss Greene
was summoned to be-
come the first editor.
President Young gave
the work to her as a
mission; and had it
not been for this phase
of the call, in all prob-
ability the inexperi-
enced young woman
would have hesitated
long before assuming
such an unusual un-
dertaking. However,
what her whole life
has shown was shown
in her youth—she
was obedient to coun-
sel; and she entered
upon her novel duties
with a firm resolve to
do her best with the
Lord’s help. She
brought to the work
the freshness and
fragrance of youthful
enthusiasm subdued
by a religious senti-
ment; and her work
will stand unique
among her people for
the beginning of a pa-
per that has wrought
so much of good. The
felicitous and expres-
sive name EXPONENT
was given by Presi-
dent Young, and the
paper was to pro-
claim the views and
sentiments of the
women of the Latter-
day Saints.
	Miss Greene was
married to Levi W.
Richards in 1874, and
her home duties de-
manding first atten-
tion, it became neces-
sary to have an as-
sociate editor. For
this position, the
choice naturally fell 
upon Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, who had been a valued con-
tributor to the paper both of prose and
poetry. Shortly after Mrs. Richards with-
drew altogether from editorial work, and
Mrs. Wells became editor, a position held by
her to the present time, a period of over
thirty-five years, all the time keeping it in
the eight-page newspaper form. Perhaps


[Column 1]
after forty years some think its dress old-
fashioned, perhaps some think its style not
up-to-date; but its struggles and victories
have endeared it as it is to patrons as well
as publisher; while as to its past, the record
and recital of the trials and triumphs, not
only of the women of Utah but of the
women of the world, as told in its columns,
old-fashioned though its form may be, has
been more truthfully and forcefully given
than in any other paper in existence. For the
EXPONENT lays proud claim to the double
distinction that it was not only the second
woman’s paper published west of the Mis-
sissippi river, but that it is now the second
oldest woman’s paper in the United States,
if not in the whole world.
	The EXPONENT has had many homes if
not many editors. It started out in the old
Herald building on West Temple street and
was published by the Herald Publishing
company, its delivery department being
handled by the Campbell and Patterson
book store just south of the Constitution
block on Main street. President Young,
however, who was always a patron and ad-
visor of the editors, wanted to have the of-
fice nearer the Church headquarters and of-
fered an office building on the corner of
State and South Temple streets, the present
location of the Alta Club. At this time the
services of Miss Cornelia Horne were se-
cured for the paper in the capacity of busi-
ness manager, while Miss Annie Wells was
assisting in the work in the office. After
President Young’s death in August, 1877,
the office was moved to the old Constitution
building. While located there, President
John Taylor made a visit to the editor, Mrs.
Wells, gave her words of praise and en-
couragement for the work of the paper, and
immediately provided a more comfortable
and suitable home for it in a large room on
the first floor of the old Council House, the
present site of the News building. He had
the room beautifully furnished, and gave
the editor every possible encouragement in
her work. In 1882, the Council House was
destroyed by fire and almost all the property
belonging to the paper, including not only
the elegant furnishings but reference books,
bound volumes, back numbers, valuable pa-
pers, etc., were destroyed. The EXPONENT
then found a home in the brick building on
Main street owned by President Daniel H.
Wells, where a part of Z. C. M. I. now
stands, and later moved to the “little house
behind the wall” on South Temple street,
about where the east end of the Hotel Utah
extends. It was here that Punditi Ramabai
came to visit the “charming little Mormon
woman editor and suffragist” and Edmund
Russell wrote in the editor’s “guest book”:
“Not the first guest to the little house be-
hind the historic wall—if every one who
has found pleasure in its welcome had
taken away a stone not one would be stand-
ing now—May it never be torn down and
may we long find the same welcome behind
it.” But alas, it was soon to be torn down,
both the historic wall and the house, to make
room for modern improvements; and the
EXPONENT again found a home in the Con-
stitution building, this time, however, re-
modeled and more convenient. When the
Templeton Hotel was turned into an office
building Mrs. Wells was one of the first
applicants for office room for her paper, and

[Column 2]
she remained there until the Bishop’s build-
ing, where the Woman’s Relief Society were
to have headquarters, was ready for oc-
cupancy, and where now the paper has, we
trust, found a permanent location.
	The office of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
during all these years and with its many
changes of location has always been the
headquarters of the Relief Society, and the
columns of the paper have been largely de-
voted to Relief Society work. The motto of
the paper has been the “Rights of the
Women of Zion and the Rights of the
Women of all Nations”; and the aim has
been to encourage all effort for good and
reform and advancement among all classes,
especially among the Latter-day Saints. The
untiring efforts of the editor to bring out
young writers, uplift the discouraged, help
people to discover themselves, develop
latent talent and encourage women in dif-
ferent avocations, has been one of her most
marked characteristics, and her paper is
a great part of her life’s work. What plans
she may have for the future of the EX-
PONENT are yet to be unfolded; but the past
certainly constitutes an enduring monument
of noble work that can never be torn down.
Forty years on the First of June! May each
succeeding forty years be lived as worthily!
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Vol 1.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1872			No. 1.


[Column 1]
		NEWS AND VIEWS.

	Women are now admitted to fifty Ameri-
can colleges.
	Rev. De Witt Talmage is pronounced a
success as a sensation preacher.
	Theodore Tilton says the best brains in
northern New York are wearing white hats.
They might wear chapeaux of a more objec-
tionable color.
	Daniel W. Voorhees in one day destroyed
the political record of a life-time, and that
was when he became henchman to a judge
with an eclesiastical mission.
	An Alabama editor writes “United State,”
and refuses to write “United States”—a
straw to show how Southern sentiment runs.
What a state he must be in?
	The season of scattering intellectual filth
has set in over the country. It occurs quad-
rennially in the United States, commencing
a few months before the Presidential elec-
tion.
	Dr. Newman failed to become a Bishop at
the Methodist General Conference, and Dr.
Newman mourns this second great defeat.
He has remembrances of Salt Lake in con-
nection with the previous one.
	Great outcry is raised against the much
marrying of the Latter-day Saints. The
tendency of the age is to disregard marriage
altogether, but there seems no indication of
a desire to have the race die out.
	The “Alabama” muddle like “confusion
worse confounded” becomes worse mixed
the more it is stirred. It stretches itself
over the path of time, and “like a wounded
snake drags its slow length along.” The
country has become heartily sick of it.
	Some Eastern journals head their Utah
news with “Deseret.” With keen appreci-
ation of the coming and inevitable, they ac-
cept the mellifluous name chosen for the
rcgion wrested by that industry which
“the honey bee” represents, from the barren
wilds of nature.
	George Francis Train sends us a bundle of
Train Ligues. The compliment is appre-
ciated, but the act is like sweetness wasted.
We can vote, but not for “the next Presi-
dent of America.” Utah has not become
Deseret yet, nor can it participate in Presi-
dent making.
	The last week of May, 1872, will be me-
morable in American annals as the first time
since the first ordinance of secession was
passed in the South, that both houses of
Congress had their full list of members.
Statesmanship can retain a complete Federal
legislature, but the article has grown some-
what scarce.
	To pardon the worst class of criminals on
condition that they emigrate to the United
States, is growing in favor with European
monarchies. Germany and Greece so far
have done the largest business in this line,
the latest batch of villains thus disposed of
being the Marathon murderers from Greece.
Orders have been forwarded by President
Grant to New Orleans, to which port it is
understood they have been sent, to prevent
their landing. They should be captured,
ironed, returned to Athens with Uncle Sam-
uel’s compliments, and a bill for direct and
“consequential” damages presented.

[Column 2]
	News comes from France that trailing
dresses for street wear are going out of fash-
ion. So many absurd and ridiculous fashions
come from Paris that the wonder is thinking
American women do not, with honest repub-
lican spirit, reject them entirely. This lat-
ter one, however, is so sensible that its im-
mediate adoption will be an evidence of good
sense wisely directed.
	The anti-Mormon bill of Judge Bingham
seems to have fared no letter in the judi-
ciary committee of the House of Represent-
atives than the one to which Mr. Voorhees
stood sponsor. It is gratifying to think that
a majority of that committee yet respect the
antiquated and once revered instrument
still occasionally referred to as the Constitu-
tion.
	Rev. James Freeman Clark claims “that if
it is an advantage to vote, women ought to
have it; if a disadvantage men ought not to be
obliged to bear it alone.” Speaki[-]g from ex-
perience we feel safe in affirming that the Rev.
gentleman is right, and we hope for a time
when this immunity may be universally enjoy-
ed by our pure-minded and light-loving sisters.
We don’t presume that those belonging to the
opposite class care anything about it.
	Mrs. Carrie F. Young, editor of the “Pa-
cific Journal of Health,” has been lecturing
in Idaho on Temperance and Woman Suf-
frage. The editor of the “Idaho World”
was not present, but did not regret his ab-
sence. He says, “We feel a most decided
repugnance to the exhibition of a woman
upon the rostrum, advocating such degrad-
ing theories as ‘woman suffrage’ and other
cognate subjects.” He omits to state
whether “Temperance” is one of the “de-
grading theories” to which he refers.
	Force is ever the argument of a bad
cause. The principles which cannot be over-
come except by the exercise of physical
power, present a front that arrests the atten-
tion of thinking minds. Where argument
fails and force is employed to overcome an
opponent, the power of the principles to
which opposition is made is admitted. Will
those who urge repressive legislation against
the people of Utah think of it? Witness
the Voorhees bill as an illustration.
	A notable event, as a result of the late
terrible Franco-German war, is the opening
of the German University in Strasbourg,
which takes place June 1st—to-day. That
famous city on the Rhine, after a siege me-
morable in the annals of warfare, passed
into the hands of the Germans, and now
they take the surest means to permanently
consolidate their power, by establishing
there one of those seats of learning for which
Germany has become enviably famous.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, it is said, de-
clared before the Cincinnati Convention met,
that if it gave her cause “the cold shoul-
der,” she would go to Philadelphia and
pledge the ballots of the women of America
to U. S. Grant. As the women of America
are yet without ballots, and as it is very
questionable, if they had them, whether they
would authorize any single individual to
pledge them for any candidate, the supposi-
tion is fair that Miss Anthony possesses too
much good sense to have made any such
declaration.

[Column 3]
	Rev. Mr. Peirce, a Methodist clergyman
who has made Salt Lake his headquarters
for some time, in lecturing cast proposed
the extinction of polygamy by the introduc-
tion here of vast quantities or expensive
millinery goods, and by inducing “Gentile” 
women to dress in gorgeous style that “Mor-
mon” women might imitate them and run
up such heavy dry goods bills that it would 
be impossible for a man to support more
than one wife, if even one. Mr. Peirce, no 
doubt, preaches modesty and humility occa-
sionally, by way of variety; now he recom-
mends the encouragement of pride, vanity
and extravagance to accomplish his “Chris-
tian” designs. The course he advises has 
been largely followed in many places, has
tenanted brothels, aid[-]d to fill prisons, bro-
ken up families, hurled women of reputa-
tion and position down to degradation and
infamy, and has met heavy denunciations
from inspired men whom Mr. Peirce profes-
ses to revere. He would steal the livery of
evil to serve religion in. There is not much
of this reverend gentleman, and what little
there is must be either very silly or very
wicked.
	The editor of “The Present Age” has
been to a church and heard an orthodox ser-
mon, in which the preacher took occasion to
say that all religious “isms,” including Mo-
hammedanism, Mormonism and Spiritual-
ism, rested their claims for being true “upon
miracles." The “Age” is a Spiritualist and
denies that his “ ism” basis its claims to lie
true upon miracles. Latter-day Saints deny
that Mormonism basis any claim for cre-
dence in it on miracles; the reverse is the
truth. The “Age” defines a miracle to be
“the setting aside for the time being of a
natural law to meet an unexpected emer-
gency.” Had he said a miracle was the
bringing into operation of certain natural
laws not generally understood or compre-
hended, he would have been nearer correct.
When somebody can tell how a natural law
may be or can be set aside, except by the
operation of some other natural law, his defi- j
nition, which is the generally received one,
may be entitled to more consideration. We
imagine the working of the overland tele-
graph Is as-great a miracle to the Cheyenne
Indians as any recorded miracle that the
“Age” or the orthodox minister can quote.
	Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon attended the
Cincinnati Convention and claimed a seat as
a delegate from California. Her claim was
treated with hisses and laughter. She took
a position in front of the stand and endeav-
ored to speak, but her voice was drowned 
by a tumultuous discord. Her persistence
in seeking to address an assemblage that
treated her claim in such a manner was un-
dignified; while the action of the Conven-
tion in receiving her with hisses and uproar-
ious laughter, was disgraceful. The Liberal
Republicans assembled in Cincinnati for a
general work of purification and reform, evi-
dently stood greatly in need of general re-
form themselves, in the matter of manners
as well as in politics. Mrs. Gordon was as
much entitled to a seat in that Convention
as Carl Schurz himself, for we have yet to
learn that the call for it specified that
“male” Republicans only were admissable.
	A new periodical in London is called
“The Ladies.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NINETEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY
				HALL.
	The following paper was read by Sister
Agnes G. Branch, secretary, at the dedica-
tion services May 7, 1912, when the Relief
Society building was dedicated by Bishop
Osborne J. P. Widstoe, at which were pres-
ent more than one hundred. Among these
were Bishop Barton, Sister Wells, general
president of Relief Society, and counselors,
Sisters Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L.
Smith, and Sister Harker, president of the
Salt Lake Stake and counselors, and friends
from the Twenty-second and Twenty-
fourth wards:
	In the year 1897, the Relief Society of the
Nineteenth Ward, Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
began to accumulate means for the erection
of a little home of their own. From fairs,
voluntary donations from members, profits
from excursions, and dances they had in the
bank Jan. 1 1901 the amount of $338.64.
About this time they sold their little old
house on Third North. Adding the money
they had already collected to this, they pur-
chased the ground on Center Street. Later,
by advice of Bishop Barton, they exchanged
that piece for the ground on which this
building stands. The size of the land thus
secured would have made it necessary to
build flush with the sidewalk, but through
the kindness of the Bishop, the Society was
allowed the privilege of more ground in the
back, belonging to the Ward Hall, in order
to make the building look good and to have
the lobby or entrance.
	Having secured a suitable piece of ground
Ann S. Neal, then president, gave this par-
ticular part of the business over to Sister
Annie Rawlings, then her first counselor.
The work of collecting means went slowly
but steadily along. When Sister Rawlings
was appointed president, she said that we
would build when we had $1,000 in the
bank, and to reach this every effort was put

[Column 2]
forth. April 5 to 8, 1902, a lunch room
was conducted on Richards Street for con-
ference visitors, netting the sum of $54.
Other ward fairs were held; more volun-
tary donations from members received of
from 5 cents to $1.00; a sewing committee
was organized, and quiltings and sewing
bees were held all over the ward, wherever
a kind sister would open her home for this
work, as all this time we were without a
home of any kind. The committee carried
bundles of cotton and the material for these
quilts and aprons to these places, and the
finished articles home to store in their
houses, until they were known by this trade
mark.
	The Society had $1,176.39 in the bank
Dec. 31, 1905, when their dream was shat-
tered by the division of the ward and our
dear mother gave her departing children,
the Twenty-fourth Ward, $500 of the money
on hand. Now, with fewer members to
work and raise funds, they kept up the
struggle, until 1908, when Bishop Barton
advised Sister Rawlings to have the ward
canvassed for pledges of money for support.
A committee of sisters did very good work,
and the people were very generous, and be-
tween $400 and $500 was collected in this
way. Many of the members have faithfully
paid their 10 cents a month, and the sisters
have spent many, many days in sewing, thus
making a small profit by careful buying and
cutting of material. In 1910, Bishop Widt-
soe, successor of our friend Brother Barton,
called all the organizations together, and
planned for a ward fair from which $173
was realized and given us for our share of
the work.
	Great credit is due to Sister Chestina
Trescott, secretary, and to Sister Rebecca
J. Asper, secretary of the building fund.
You may look over their books and find
credit given for every cent collected or dis-
bursed, be the amount as small at 5 cents.
	Now our dear president desires to extend
her thanks to the Bishopric for their recent
gift of $100; to all auxiliary organizations
who have helped in any way; to Brothers
Irvine and Wright for planting the lawn;
to those who have donated dishes; those
who have cleaned and kept the building
comfortable, in the nearly three years it has
been built; to all who have helped in any
way to erect this hall, and to lift the burden,
which she has carried since the commence-
ment of the building fund; and she also
would say that not one cent of the money
collected for the poor has ever been con-
verted to this or any other purpose but the
comfort of the poor; and that she has al-
ways been guided in her every act by those
in authority over her; and now offers this
little building, of which we are very proud,
with her love and blessing for dedication.
	Paid for the hall with interest $2,126.20;
in addition, William Asper drew plans,
wrote specifications and superintended the
construction of the hall, all gratis, which
saved us the amount of $75; paid building
permit, $1.50; taxes for sidewalk, $20.44;
clearing real estate, $35.25; blinds, $12.00;
Twenty-fourth Ward, $500.00; making a
total collection of $2,695.39.


Mrs. Susie Wissler, a widow, has been
elected Mayor of Dayton, Wyo., on the in-
dependent ticket. A majority of the votes
were cast by women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[image]
THE “EXPONENT’S” FIRST EDITOR.
	[The above picture represents Mrs. L. Lula
Greene Richards as she appeared forty years
ago when the EXPONENT was first issued. The
following beautiful poem is her latest literary
effort and was written specially for this anni-
versary number.]


THE ONE PERFECT LIGHT AND
			POWER SYSTEM.
	You Are Invited to Investigate and Take
				Shares.
There is a King whose kingdom, not of earth,
Sheds forth a Light of such transcendent
		worth,
	Compared therewith all worldly lights are
		pale;
In all that wealth, shareholder you may be;
The shares, unlimited, are also free;
	Humility and honesty prevail,
	With these two requisites you cannot fail.

The King is also God, with Power Supreme;
His work is real, no speculative dream;
	All who invest are furnished work to do;
And power to do their tasks, their shares se- 
		cure;
To those who serve, large dividends are sure;
	Integrity keeps all both safe and true;
	No one can touch that which belongs to you.

Not only King and God, but changeless Friend,
To all who on His faithfulness depend:
	Have you known friendship—know you then
		its source?
It rests with Him, He through His grace im-
		parts
Its warmth and sweetness unto mortal hearts;
	To prove His friend gives influ’nce of such
		force,
	No adverse pow’r can stay the upward course.

O, more than these! The great Instructor, He,
Of all true art and science holds the key;
	Inspires all energies that stand for good;
Strengthens the weak, guides and directs the
		strong,
Leads right by wisdom to subdue the wrong;
	Yea, more, stands forth as from the first He
		stood;
	Omnipotent, Eternal Fatherhood!

My King, my God, Friend, Teacher, Father,
		Thou,
With all Thy Light and Power, dost allow
	Thy faulty, failing child, myself, to be
In the high classes Thou Thyself dost teach,
Forgiven, soothed, kept safe within Thy reach.
	Fed, clothed, housed, taught, beloved—all
		blessings free—
	And near, and nearer, as I write, to Thee!
				—L. LULA GREENE RICHARDS.
	Salt Lake City, May, 1912.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	At her home in Fillmore, April 23, 1912,
Isabella E. Robinson departed this life after
an illness of one day. She was the daugh-
ter of Parley P. Pratt and Belinda M. Pratt
and was born September 1, 1854, in Salt
Lake City. Her father was one of the early
converts to the faith of the Latter-day Saints
and was one of the original quorum of the
Twelve Apostles; he was assassinated while
doing missionary work in Arkansas in the 
summer of 1857, leaving the subject of this
sketch fatherless in her early childhood. She
came with her mother to Fillmore in 1871,
where on April 10, 1872, she became the
wife of Alonzo Robinson, and bore him
twelve children, eleven of whom survive her.
She has been a public spirited woman and
served the people in all of the Church or-
ganizations, and as County Recorder for two
terms, and also a member of the Board of
Education, in which position her aim was
for the betterment of the public school sys-
tem, and higher morals for the youth of 
Zion. On November 14, 1904 she was ap-
pointed to the position of President of Re-
lief Societies of Millard Stake which posi-
tion she held up to the time of her death.
	Funeral services were held in the Ward 
chapel which had been appropriately dec-
orated, and were conducted by Bishop P. L.
Brunson.
	Elders A. A. Hinckley, O. L. Thompson
of the Stake Presidency, Willis E. Robin-
son, J. D. Smith, C. Anderson and P. L.
Brunson each spoke in the highest terms of
the good work and the noble and exemplary
life of the deceased. By her death we are
deprived of a valiant worker, a loving and 
devoted wife and mother, and a consistent
Latter-day Saint. The following resolutions
were read by the Fillmore Relief Society:

			RESOLUTIONS:
	Whereas:
	A loving wife and mother, Sister Isabella
E. Robinson, has been suddenly called by
death, and
	Whereas:
	The said Sister Isabella E. Robinson was
the daughter of one of the early leaders of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, Elders Parley P. Pratt, and she her-
self one of the pioneers of early days into
this then Western wilderness, and during all
the years intervening from then until strick-
en with death she has been a devoted and
consistent Latter-day Saint, an untiring
worker, both in temporal and spiritual af-
fairs. She was an intellectual, high-minded 
woman; a woman righteously devoted to her 
home and children, a dutiful wife, a loving
mother, a hospitable friend and neighbor.
She was trusting as a child, always with
an abiding faith in the goodness of God;
she was always humble and lived a simple 
honest life. She never complained though
often her lot was hard, but faithful, and sub-
missively struggled on to the very end; al-
ways inspiring faith, love, and duty in the
hearts of all she met. Her thoughts were
rich and pure, her mind was a great store of
useful knowledge; good books were her con-
stant companions. Truly of this good wom-
an may it be said: She was a noble char-
acter, hers was a beautiful life.
	“Strength and honor are her clothing; and
she shall rejoice in time to come. She open-
eth her mouth with wisdom; and her tongue 
is the law of kindness. She looketh well

[Column 2]
to the ways of her household, and eateth not
the bread of idleness. Her children arise up
and call her blessed; her husband also, and
he praiseth her. Many daughters have done 
virtuousyl, but thou excellest them all.”—
Proverbs 31: 25-29
	Therefore,
	Be it resolved by the officers and members
of the Fillmore Relief Society, that we deep-
ly regret the loss of our beloved Stake Pres-
ident Sister Isabella E. Robinson, and we
extend our sympathy and condolence to the
relatives and family of the deceased and say
unto them: emulate the noble characteristics
of this good woman.
	To her children we would say: let her
life be your guide. Be comforted in the 
thought that she was good and pure, and 
that she is now in the presence of God.

“Mother Dear, sacred name, and sweet; how slow
	we are to prove,
The height and depth and deathlessness of per-
	fect mother love.
We take her tender daily care, just as the thought-
	less flowers
Look up to God for daily light, because we
	know ’tis ours.
But when we miss, from heart and life, the com-
	fort of her care,
Then we must learn to live without her presence
	and her prayer.
’Tis then the name of Mother is to us a holy
	thing;
And hovering low, we seem to feel the shelter of
	a wing.”

	Another faithful Relief Society worker
passed to the great beyond—Sister Phoebe
Jones died at the home of her daughter,
Mrs. Wm. Hill at St. John, Ida., Monday
evening, Feb. 26th. Mrs. Jones was born at
Tredegar, South Wales, in 1841. She joined
the Church of Latter-day Saints at the age 
of fourteen years. When twenty-one years
of age she left home and family and im-
migrated with the people of her choice, and
after a long and perilous journey across the
plains by ox teams she landed in Salt Lake
City in the fall of ’62. She moved to Wil-
lard, Utah, in ’63, and after residing there
eleven years, she came to St. John and had
been a resident of this place about twenty-
eight years. She was the mother of eleven
children of whom five survive her. Besides
her five children, who are bereft of a
mother, she leaves three brothers and one
sister, twenty-six grandchildren and twelve
great-grandchildren, and a host of other rel-
atives and friends.
	She was elected president of the Relief
Society ten years ago, which position she
held till the time of her death.
	She was a mother to the motherless and a
friend to the poor and needy. Many a trav-
eler has found shelter under her roof and
none was ever turned away hungry, as she
was always ready and willing to share her
mite with all she thought needed it.
	Funeral services were held at the St. John
meeting house Feb. 29, being conducted by
Bishop Monson. Music was furnished by
the Malad Tabernacle choir. The speakers 
were Bishop J. P. Harrison, Elders R. J.
Harding, of Malad, and Moses Davis, of
Salt Lake City.


LIFE’S GOAL.
To live, to work for right and greatest worth,
To paint the world in colors luminant,
To bring a reign of peace upon the earth,
To make each life’s expression jubilant;
Thus man for God will make His glory ring
In seeking good and truth in everything!
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	MAY, 1912


[Column 1]
	EARLY PIONEER EDUCATION.
	That the Latter-day Saints have always
favored education even under the most ad-
verse circumstances is self-apparent. Those
who have been connected with this Church
from the very beginning, know how earn-
estly the people have sought to make educa-
tion general in the settlements and wher-
ever they might sojourn even for a limited
time.
	Leaving Nauvoo, Illinois, suddenly in the
dead of winter, they took with them books,
though a miscellaneous collection, books of
value, and among them many school books.
In Winter Quarters school was taught six
months in a log school house, with rustic
seats of various kinds and a dirt floor. As
we recall the facts there were about thirty
pupils, among whom were some who came
to the valley in the first year. The company
that followed in the wake of the pioneers
and who built the fort on the place now
known as the Pioneer Square had schools
opened that first winter. The teachers whose
names are on record in the history of the
state taught in their own homes, rude as
they necessarily were. In the second year
of the settlement of the valley, 1848, Heber
C. Kimball built a small school house on
the north side of City Creek. In this little
building councils were also held and most
important business pertaining to the wel-
fare of the community was transacted. Here
Horace K. Whitney taught a fine school,
assisted semi-occasionally by the writer.
There are men and women now living who
were pupils in that school and are promi-
nent in both church and state. This school
was of high order and it was entirely free,
at least so far as the writer knows there
was no remuneration to the teachers.
	Afterwards schools were opened, in dif-
ferent localities, wherever there were suf-
ficient settlers to require it. Among the early
teachers we recall Jesse W. Fox, also Sarah
M. Brimhall, who taught in the Fourteenth
ward. Hannahrette Pratt, Keziah Pratt
and afterwards Eleanor Pratt were among
the very first. In 1852 the writer taught
school in a log school house in the Twelfth
ward, on what is now Fourth East street.
She had sixty-five pupils, men and women
who today stop sometimes in their busy
public life to recall the little pioneer school
where they took their first steps in educa-
lion.

[Column 2]
	One of the invaluable developments in
the way of social and literary advancement
was the formation of a literary society of
men and women at the home of Lorenzo
Snow, known as the Polysophical Society.
This society even antedated the Transcen-
dentalists of New England. The best known
men and women of the city were members.
One instrumental in organizing this soci-
ety, Brother William Eddington, is still liv-
ing. The poems, essays, etc., written for
this society were quite meritorious, and
many of them form a part of our Church
literature.
	The legislature of the Territory at its
first session made provision for district
schools as is recorded on the public docu-
ments. On Feb. 28, 1850, less than three
years after the arrival of the Pioneers, and
before many of the people who had taken
part in the exodus from Nauvoo had reached
the valley, the legislature issued a charter
for founding a state university. This uni-
versity, known then as the University of
Deseret, with a chancellor and a board of
regents, is the beginning of the University
of Utah which today ranks so excellent
among educational institutions. The pro-
vision made for its founding at such an
early date shows how the pioneers felt in
regard to higher education.
	Music has always been one of the “hob-
bies” of the “Mormon” people, and its cul-
tivation has been wonderfully encouraged.
It has always been a feature of the home life
among the people. The songs of any dis-
tinct people show the tendency of thought
and aspirations and mark the trend of feel-
ing; and music, both vocal and instrumen-
tal, has ever been a distinctive element in
the tone and policy of this people; in fact
it has seemed to be a necessity, as it were,
and the songs and hymns and labors of our
writers and composers have been most help-
ful and inspiring in the labors of the people
in the mountains and valleys uplifting the
soul under difficulties and diffusing joy and
peace and content. It has been often re-
marked that had it not been for our band
of musicians and our beautiful singers in
early times cheering the spirit of those
weary pilgrims in their exile and journey-
ings, they never would have had the cour-
age to toil on to the distant haven of rest
and peace which they expected to find in
the valleys of the mountains.
	Some of those who have progressed and
have striven for the highest and best to be
attained know how earnestly the people
have labored to uplift and encourage high-
er education in music, art, and literary de-
velopment. Neither has it been in vain—
the proofs are evident, and in the near fu-
ture the young men and women of this
mountain region will rank with the greatest
orators, poets, statesmen and scientists of
the world.
	In the early days there was a freshness
and simplicity in all ways and doings that
was a marked characteristic not at all to be
deplored, but a genuineness that could not
well be misunderstood. We came to this
region to build up a community that would
protect virtue and foster and encourage in-
dustry and become in every sense self-sup-
porting, in all that the word implies—to be
an independent and a worthy people. With
such an aim, guided by faith, have we
builded.


THE MAESER MEMORIAL.
	The principal event of the closing exer-
cises at the Brigham Young University,
Provo, this year was the dedication and
presentation to the Church of the Maeser
Memorial. The Alumni Association of the
University passed a resolution seven years
ago for such a memorial, and organized
committees to push the work. As a result
of this resolution, five years ago ground
was broken for the foundation and on the
30th of May, 1912, the beautiful building
was ready for dedication.
	The site of the building could not be
surpassed in the world for natural loveli-
ness. On the summit of a hill, with the
great towering peaks of the Wasatch so
close behind it as to seem almost as though
one might touch them with the outstretched
hand; with the broad, verdant valley slop-
ing towards the sapphire waters of Utah
lake in the foreground, and the picturesque
and garden-like city of Provo lying be-
tween; to the north and south the fruit-
ful fields and blossoming orchards of the
Utah valley, the beautiful marble edifice
stands majestic in its splendid setting. The
memorial itself is classic throughout in
style. It is constructed of the famous white
stone from the Sanpete quarries, and the
massive pillars on the portal are especially
imposing. The building is fully equipped
for occupancy, with furniture in perfect
keeping, and will be used for the home of
the Teachers’ College.
	While the Alumni Association are re- 
sponsible for the inception of this grand
memorial, the Church and many friends
and organizations have contributed means
and made the effort a possibility, and today
both the State and the Church may well be
proud in the possession of such a temple of
learning.
	The exercises of the Alumni Association
were highly interesting but the crowning
feature was the dedication of the building
by President Joseph F. Smith. His impres-
sive prayer thrilled all who were present
and rendered the occasion most sacred. He
besought that the spirit of purity, beauty
and nobility should exist in the building
and prevail there always; that the spirit
of the gospel and of true education should
characterize everything that might be done
there, and that love and unity should al-
ways exist between pupils and teachers.
	The erection of this building is a fitting
tribute to the memory of Karl G. Maeser,
founder of the Church school system-—
which, though such a problem in the begin-
ning—the combining of secular and re-
ligious training—he so beautifully and com-
pletely solved. Today the influence of the
Church schools is felt in every part of our
Church work, being especially noticeable
in the missionary field. The elders who
have the advantage of the Church school
training have not only a fund of digested
and available information to help them, but
also an abiding testimony of the gospel, and
are at once armed and ready for the battle
in the world with unbelief or misguided
ideas. Brother Maeser sought no honors or
reward for his work, but in a humble, quiet
way made the force of his character felt
wherever he went. He brought with him
from his native land, Germany, high ideals
as well as thorough and advanced educa-
tional methods, and he wrought a mighty


work as a teacher among the youth of
Zion—a work indeed more lasting than
the marble temple which is now dedicated
to his honor, strong and firm though its
foundations are, for he builded human
character which shall endure forever.
						A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SUFFRAGE NO FAILURE IN UTAH.
	It is quite astonishing that a journal of
wide reputation and up-to-date ideas like the
Ladies’ Home Journal should take such a
backward step as it has on the woman suf-
frage question, and especially surprising that
the editor should be so thoroughly misin-
formed on that subject. In a recent number
in an editorial entitled, “The signal failure
of woman suffrage,” the editor says: “While
granting there are some improved laws on
the statute books of Wyoming, Utah, Col-
orado and Idaho, the states where women
have voted for from fifteen to forty-two
years, still the largest and best number of
laws for the protection of life do not exist
in those states, but in those other states
where women do not vote.” This assertion
is absurd on the face of it, for men in all
the states have always had the power to
make the laws and the younger western
states, with the older ones for patterns, have
selected and framed the laws in accordance
with the best laws of older states and the
Constitution; but with woman suffrage in	
these four states mentioned, at each legis-
lature since the suffrage was granted new
and splendid laws have been placed on the
statute books. In Utah no man can dispose
of any property without the consent of his
wife and her written signature is necessary
for any transfer or mortgage of property.
We have the nine-hour law, the limit any
girl or woman is compelled to work, a law
which affects not only the women in the
factories, behind the counters and in offices,
but the nurses in the hospitals, and this law
is enforced, while Maryland is only now
rejoicing over a ten-hour law. Utah has
raised the age of consent to eighteen, while,
as every one knows in the southern states
it is as low as fourteen. Two criminals have
just this last month been sent to the state
prison, one for fifteen years and one for
sixty-one years, either sentence considering
the respective ages means life imprison-
ment, for rape, while to quote Miss Jane
Addams of Chicago: “In the state of Il-
linois the punishment for rape is the same
as that inflicted for the theft of fifteen dol-
lars’ worth of property, and a man may not
be extradited from one state to another for
so slight an offense.”
	In Utah all merchants are compelled to
place stools or chairs behind the counters for
the convenience of the women clerks. We
claim a curfew law, and have no superior
Juvenile court in the United States. Our
educational system ranks third in the union
of states. It is unlawful to perform a mar-
riage ceremony for any boy or girl under
the age of twenty-one without the consent
of the parent or guardian and such marriage
if performed can be declared void. Nor did
we forget, the comfort of the men, for a
woman legislator framed and put through a
law compelling all women to take off their
hats in public gatherings. In fact our stat-
ute books are full of improved laws for the

[Column 2]
safety of life, the comfort and protection of
women and children; and while we realize
there are other laws necessary, we feel con-
fident that with the strength of our votes
we can procure them, and we are not sleep-
ing either. We have made many victories
and expect to make more.
	The other suffrage states have made equal
advancement, and are alive to the necessity
of better laws, therefore, we feel the Jour-
nal criticism to be quite unjust. As uni-
versal suffrage is a foregone conclusion, it
seems almost needless to argue the question
now, for before long editors and others will
be so accustomed to this mark of progress
as to wonder why they ever opposed it.
							A. W. C.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN’S MAGAZINES.
	Perhaps nothing more distinctly calls for
confidence, fearlessness and grit than the
venture of placing a magazine or newspaper
in a field already flooded. A man would
scarcely hazard the thought unless behind
the venture there were a rich corporation, or
political or religious influence. But without
any such backing, with only a desire to give
to the world some new thoughts, higher
ideals and advanced education, there have
been a few women brave enough—and as
some of their friends have told them, foolish
enough—to make such a venture. Among
these there have been, of course, some finan-
cial failures; but from a literary standpoint
the women’s magazines have not only been
unique but praiseworthy and stand as a
mark of advanced thought for woman’s
elevation, socially and educationally.
	The literary field has never been denied
to woman, but the proper preparation has;
and considering the prejudice and disadvan-
tages she has had to contend against, one
marvels at the great advancement she has
made. With admiration we recall the names
of Margaret Fuller Ossilli, Fanny Fern, the
Bronte sisters, Lucy Stone, Kate Gannett
Woods, Emmeline B. Wells, Abigail Scott
Dunniway, Kate Field and Charlotte Per-
kins Gilman.
	Today, when the magazines and news-
papers are not complete without their
women writers, it is scarcely possible to
credit how brave these women had to be
to face the ridicule and opposition and some-
times persecution of a few years ago. When
the great Charles Dickens caricatured the
women writers, and classed them all as the
ridiculous Mrs. Jellaby, while other wits
dubbed them “Blue Stockings,” it was not
an easy matter to appear in public print, and
that is largely the reason that most women
writers used a nom de plume instead of their
own name. Ridicule and even abuse were
bravely borne, and these noble women toiled
fearlessly on, knowing that women were just
as gifted as men and just as able if only
the way could be opened. We laugh now,
we women suffragists, when people say they
don’t believe in “woman’s rights,” because
all along the way we see, following the ad-
vance guard, a great army of the best think-
ing, most studious men and women of the
world. Such results are due not alone to the
suffrage workers who have lectured, held
congresses, conventions and councils
throughout the land, but also to the women
who have burned the midnight oil—the
women who have carried the burden of a

[Column 2]
magazine or newspaper almost without as-
sistance, placing in the homes of the people,
the hands of the traveler, the salesman, the
laborer and the scholar, the written words to
break down the wall of prejudice, invade
the ranks of ignorance and throw into the
limelight the writing on the wall foretelling
the onward march of progress. 
	The dauntless Lucy Stone launched on the
Atlantic coast the clean and forceful paper,
The Woman’s Journal, in the early sixties;
while on the other side of the continent Abi-
gail Scott Dunniway started The New
Northwest in 1869. Here in the intermoun-
tain region a young Utah woman, Miss L.
Lula Greene, started the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT, in 1872. Some time in the eighties the
brilliant Kate Field published her Washing-
ton, which, though short-lived, was forceful,
witty and popular; and now in recent years,
notable among women’s magazines is the
Fore Runner, all of its printed material pre-
pared by that charming and brainy woman—
Charlotte Perkins Gilman. The Woman’s
Journal, published in Boston, is the official
organ of the Suffrage Association. For
many years it was published and edited by
Lucy Stone, later assisted by her husband,
Mr. Blackwell, and still later by her daugh-
ter, Alice Stone Blackwell, who at her moth-
er’s death succeeded her in the editorship.
The Woman’s Journal has been a power in-
deed in the cause of educational, political
and social advancement for women, and its
present editor certainly deserves praise for
the wonderful amount of information given
through its columns about the progress of the
suffrage cause and other kindred subjects.
The New Northwest, published in Portland,
probably came short of the necessary finan-
cial support for it ceased to be issued some
time ago; but during its publication it also
was potent for good and always advanced
the cause of higher education and privileges
for women. Poor Kate Field died in Ha-
waii, and her literary work was thus sud-
denly closed, but her paper, The Washing-
ton, was full of bright and witty things and a
valuable instrument for the suffrage cause.
The Fore Runner—well, it is Mrs. Gilman
—if you know her—keen, bright, sharp,
witty and interesting. How long one wom-
an’s brain can hold out producing fiction,
poetry, essays, criticism, reviews and all
the varieties of literature with which its
columns sparkle, is hard to tell; but now in
the course of its third year this magazine
bravely holds its own, is eagerly looked for
and pleasurably read.
	There are other women’s papers, of
course, but these are the ones whose chief
aim is the advancement of woman. These
are the ones whose battle has been long
fought and gloriously won. 
						A. W. C.


A PILGRIMAGE.
	A little child, wandering in woodland
ways, among the tangled grass and beside
the rippling brooklets, strangely wondered
at all she saw, and, more strangely still,
at what she felt within her own little heart;
the wild flowers in the shady dells, the bees
and singing birds, and, at night, when all
seemed hushed and still, the melancholy
croaking of the frogs—on and on and seem-
ing to echo afar, thoughts that were brood-
ing in her own untrained mind. All these
sounds, sometimes harmonious, and yet


[Column 1]
withal discordant, never unpleasant, seemed
a wild melody. And yet there was naught
of the savage in her nature. She roamed
the hills, she climbed the trees, she stood
aloft on rocky heights, and talked to the
birds, and trees, and fountains, and to the
brooklets flowing on and on over the peb-
bly sands, and to her ears all sounds were
music. 
	She believed in elves and fairies, and
fancied she would some day see them and
that one would yet come to spin golden
threads like “Clotilda’s god-mother.” Some-
times she felt sad, after watching and wait-
ing and no one came to make her day-
dreams come true. She fashioned wreaths
from the evergreen vines that trailed in
the woods under the trees, and wondered
again and again how crowns were made
from the laurel bushes that seemed so stiff
and grew so straight and ungainly. She
dreamed great dreams of imaginary poets
and wandering minstrels that played upon
harps and sang militant music, mild and
melodious and melancholy, like the whip-
poorwill she had often heard in the night
time. Sometimes she could be found sitting
on the moss-covered rocks under the over-
hanging, graceful hemlock boughs, imag-
inging herself the queen of the fairies. 
	This child was “impossible” so the
neighbors said, and these good Puritan
mothers wondered why her mother allowed
her to indulge in such wild fancies. 
	But even childish dreams have an awak-
ening and as time flew by, the child grew
older, if not wiser, and new thoughts and
desires to know of books and pastimes such
as other children enjoyed, and school
friends and companions who talked of re-
alities, not of fancies, began to occupy her
mind. She learned quickly and helped oth-
ers, which seemed to her unsophisticated
mind the one aim to be desired. Her studies
were almost a pastime and she seemed to
have known many things before she read
them in her books. 
	She was romantic in the extreme. Her
imagination carried her afar, and she trav-
ersed over lands in the distance, she climbed
the highest hills, she compassed land and
sea, as it were, and she told marvelous tales
of what she had seen and heard. She be-
lieved in herself. She felt she could over-
come all obstacles in her way. She as-
tounded all her teachers. In fact, those who
knew of her progress in the studies she had
undertaken, far in advance of those of her
age, predicted for her a brilliant future. 
The little maiden who had found there were
no real wood nymphs or fairies believed
she could attain celebrity and was encour-
aged in her ideas of reaching the highest
excellence in such studies as little girls
of her age never dreamed of undertaking. 
Much of the reading and many of the stud-
ies of the child were of a classical nature. 
Her own taste in literature was of that kind
and yet she loved the romantic, but her
heroes and heroines were of the highest
class. She loved the poems that were lofty
in tone and sentiment and her thoughts
were of those who had accomplished great
things—Rome and the Romans; Greece
the land of philosophers and poets; Scot-
land and its great romances, Waverley and
others. 
	The child grew and she found her way
into the hearts and homes of her kindred,
and her winsome ways were the admira-

[Column 2]
tion of those who were in any way associ-
ated with her. Yet she was dreamy and in
some way irresponsive to endearment. She
seemed to shrink from contact with all ex-
cept a very few.
*		*		*		*		*
	A change came to the young maiden that
altered the whole course of events—a won-
drous change. Whereas she had religious
tendencies, implanted by education and in-
heritance, yet she had not known deep con-
victions, nor was it likely in one so young. 
Yet suddenly it came about, and her whole
soul was wrought upon by the strange news
that a prophet had proclaimed a new reve-
lation from heaven. He had a small fol-
lowing—only a few. It was wonderful. 
	The truth entered into her very heart
and soul; all her spiritual faculties were
aroused: she wanted to see the prophet. 
	Her wish was gratified. She saw and
heard him. What a great change was
wrought! So true and zealous was this
unsophisticated child that not all the temp-
tations the world could offer would have
made any impression upon her, to make her
doubt the knowledge that she had indeed
seen and heard from a prophet of God. 
Trials and persecutions, sorrow and priva-
tion, were as naught compared with the tes-
timony given her when she saw and heard
him. 
	Then followed the great tragedy—the
Prophet and Patriarch were slain. Many
failed in their faith—not so the maiden who
had been bereft of all that she loved best. 
She mourned the loss she suffered, as it were
apart from others, yet her sorrow was as
genuine as those who made more parade of
grief. Her heart was deeply touched and
the sorrow of that terrible time could never
be effaced from her memory.
*		*		*		*		*
	Leaving the city of the Saints, crossing
the Mississippi on the ice in the dead of
winter, camping out, sleeping in tents, and
all the other exigencies and inconveniences
of such an unpremeditated journey, to a
young delicate girl was not only a new and
novel experience, but attended by many al-
most insurmountable difficulties, and in this
case proved more than her nature could
endure. Brain fever set in, and life was de-
spaired of, but notwithstanding, the girl
rallied and lived to reach Winter Quarters,
where, during that first winter of 1846 and
1847, the pilgrim Saints suffered so much
from fatigue and hradship. Many strong
men and women suffered and death car-
ried away those of all ages, but particularly
women and little children.
	Spring came. The pioneers left for the
unknown way to the Great Basin, and the
children needed a teacher. Gladly the young
girl opened a school for those in the vi-
cinity. It was in a log house without a
floor, romantic enough to suit even her pe-
culiar temperament. Six months she taught
the girls and boys of all ages, almost with-
out books. Much of their teaching was
really of a religious nature, and it was the
simple faith of the young woman that
helped her over the rough places of life.
Her mother had died and been buried by
the wayside in an unknown grave, and she
was left in charge of three motherless chil-
dren, but she still had her romantic fancies
and dreams. Her songs and poems were
her only pastime. 
	Later in the spring of 1848 the body of

[Column 3]
the Church left Winter Quarters on the
Missouri river for the valley, and in the
beautiful month of May, with the three chil-
dren, she journeyed toward the west once
more, this time to find a permanent home. 
	The variety of scenery, the incidents of
the way, especially in such large traveling
companies, more than compensated for all
the inconveniences and difficulties to be en-
countered; the trials and privations were
over-balanced by the prophetic thoughts of
the mountain home where freedom and lib-
erty for the chosen people would be found
and maintained. 
	Reaching the vale in the mountains
after coming through Emigration can-
yon, the teams were corralled on City
Creek and camp made opposite the
Temple site, and here, on this very
ground she passed many shifting, chang-
ing scenes in her life’s eventful his-
tory. All these changes, whether gay or
sad, were to her so many books of knowl-
edge, sometimes left to moulder and rust
without opening the pages to look therein,
and again, just peeping in for material to
interest the many who question of the
numerous incidents that had unfolded in
the settlement of the valley, and withal after
many years what has been the result of life’s
adventures into unexplored volumes of
thought and experiences! How can the
story be told of any woman’s long life, es-
pecially of one who had such lofty aims and
aspirations to accomplish some great pur-
pose to help others, especially to benefit
womankind and children!
	The whole trend of the busy, active life
of this dreamful child and woman proves
that the longing fancies of her girlhood
were in a sense prophetic of her later
life. In her mature womanhood, when
the vista of opportunities opened up, un-
looked-for and unsought, dreams and ro-
mances in a sense resolved themselves into
realities, yet all has been wrought out so
absolutely different than could have been
anticipated even by the most sanguine ob-
server, and consequently establishes the fact
at least in the mind of the “once impossi-
ble,” that there are lingering in the brain
some dim recollections of consciousness or
sub-consciousness, pre-existent and through
all the grievous trials and vicissitudes of
life a hope in the ultimate triumph of light
over darkness, the shining light that is like
an anchor.				W. W. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIGIOUS THOUGHT IN AMERICA.
	[The following interesting paper was prepared
by Mrs. Myra Young Rossiter and presented be-
fore the Utah Society of the Daughters of the
Revolution at a recent meeting. Containing a vast
amount of information upon an important subject
in condensed form, it will be found of interest,
we are sure, to every reader.—EDITOR.]

		THE PRESENT DAY.
	Religion is as old as human history or
human language; and there is good reason
for saying that it is universal, though there
are and have been individual atheists and
communities with little sense of religion.
The temperament of certain races renders
them more highly susceptible of profound
religious impulses, just as some individuals
have a deeper fund of religious feeling, of
piety and reverence, than their neighbors.
Most of the great religions profess to have
been directly revealed to man by inspiration


[Column 1]
from God, and are thus miraculously com-
municated to man, who has only to hear, un-
derstand and obey. On the other hand
many inquirers seek the origin of religion
within man himself, and it is claimed that
it is not necessary that those who do so
should deny the truth of all religions, or
reject belief in an almighty and infinite God.
	The religious matters of the United States
have certainly adopted the elective system.
According to figures recently issued by the
census bureau, which has completed a re-
ligious census, there are a hundred and
eighty-six religious denominations in the
United States.
	If, however, a man cannot find a satis-
factory denomination, he can make his
choice among 1,079 independent churches.
The census bureau reports that the churches
are growing faster than the population. The
last religious census before this was made
in 1890. Between that date and the close
of 1906, which is the last year included in
the latest report, the increase of the popula-
tion of continental United States was 33.8
per cent. During that same period, in the
number of communicant church members
there was an increase of 60.4 per cent; in
the value of church edifices an increase of
35.3 per cent, and in the value of church
property an increase of 85.1 per cent. In
every particular, except in the number of
church organizations, the rate of increase
in religious bodies has exceeded the rate of
increase in the population at large. Of the
total population in 1890 the reported church
membership represented 39.1 per cent. The
greater part of this increase has been by the
Roman Catholic church. In sixteen years
its population nearly doubled. Its percen-
tage of increase was 93.5 per cent. Not-
withstanding the Protestant bodies increas-
ed at a much lower rate, they have grown
more rapidly than the population. Their per-
centage of increase has been 44.8 per cent.
To put it in another way, of the 6.4 per
cent gain in church membership in propor-
tion to the population, 4.4 per cent is Roman
Catholic, 1.8 per cent is Protestant. Among
the Protestant denominations the Disciples
(including the Church of Christ) made a
gain of 78.2 per cent. The Lutheran bodies
follow closely with a gain of 71.6 per cent,
and the Protestant Episcopal church comes
closely after, with a gain of 66.7 per cent.
The Adventists and Baptists are more than 
half again as numerous as they were in
1890. 
	Remarkable percentages of increase are
also set down to the Eastern Orthodox
churches, Independent churches and Chris-
tian Scientists. One of the most striking
figures in the whole report is that which re-
cords the increase in the number of Jewish
organizations, largely due to immigration.
In the membership of the Roman Catholic
church are counted all baptized persons, in-
cluding infants, and also adults who never
attend church. On the other hand, in Prot-
estant denominations, only those are in-
cluded who are voluntarily enrolled. For
this reason the census bureau has made an
allowance of 15 per cent in the Roman
Catholic figures for purposes of comparison.
Out of the forty-nine states and territories,
in one the Mormons are in the majority, in
sixteen the Roman Catholics, and in twenty-
nine the Protestants. Of the Protestant
bodies the Methodists are the most numer-
ous.
	The Methodists and Baptists together

[Column 2]
have more than half of the religious organi-
zations in the country. There has been
an increase in the number of denominations,
but many of these are newly created and in-
significant. The process by which certain
denominations have united and others have
joined in co-operative movements, is of far
greater significance than merely nominal in-
crease in the number of religious bodies.
There is much for the church to do in this
country which it has ignored and neglected.
There are many signs that other organiza-
tions are wresting from the church some of
its leadership; nevertheless, if these figures
mean anything, they indicate that the
church is, materially at least, in a healthy
state of growth.
	The most far-sighted among us cannot
predict the outcome of the remarkable
change which the vast stream of immigra-
tion, so long continued, is fast effecting in
the Republic. History records no such pop-
ulation movement in previous ages, nor is
there any precedent for the assimilation of
races, now apparently in progress. Assim-
ilation is, however, in reality the mightiest
problem before the American people today,
and light upon it, even the feeblest rays,
would be most welcome. In the changes of
attitude of the American people towards re-
ligious beliefs which have occurred since the
previous inquiry, is to be found one of the
first signs of the new composite of race,
now in process of creation in the United
States. From Dr. Carroll’s estimate of the
present strength of the various denomina-
tional families of the country and their
growth, it is very evident that Christianity,
while it may be losing its grip on part of the
constituency, is still in possession of incal-
culable power and influence, as some of the
following denominations will prove.
	Adventists, 6 bodies; Baptists, 14 bodies;
Brethren (River), 3 bodies; Brethren (Ply-
mouth), 4 bodies; Buddhists (Chinese);
Buddhists and Shintoists (Japanese); Cath-
olics, 9 bodies; Catholic Apostolic; Chris-
tadelphians; Christian Connection; Chris-
tian Catholic (Dowie); Christian Scientists;
Christian Union; Church of God, (Wine-
brennarian); Church of the New Jerusa-
lem; Communistic Societies, 6 bodies; Con-
gregationalists; Disciples of Christ; Dunk-
ards, (4 bodies); Evangelical (2 bodies); 
Friends (Quakers), 2 bodies; Friends of the
Temple (German); Evangelical Protestant
(German); Evangelical Synod (Jews) 2
bodies; The Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints; Lutherans (23 bodies);
Swedish Evangelical; Mission Covenant;
Mennonites (12 bodies); Methodists (7
bodies); Moravians; Presbyterians (2
bodies); Reformed (3 bodies); Salvation 
Army; Schwenkfildians; Social Brethren;
Society for Ethical Culture; Spiritualists;
Theosophical Society; United Brethren (2
bodies); Unitarians; Universalists; Inde-
pendent Congregations.
	These are some of the sects that prevail
in America today, and to attempt to explain
the religious tenets of each faith would be
a herculean task for anyone to attempt, and 
I will conclude by stating that of all the
religious denominations now in existence
among men, none have attracted such atten-
tion from the others as the organization
known as “The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints,” the members of which
are popularly, though erroneously, called
“Mormons” because of their belief in the
divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon,

[Column 3]
a record of the ancient inhabitants of Amer-
ica. In every nation where the fame of
this Church has spread, and where its elders
have appeared to teach their faith, one fea-
ture which stands pre-eminent is the bitter-
ness with which they are opposed, without
even the opportunity of being heard, prin-
cipally by professed believers in Christian-
ity. With this prominent fact before us it
is beyond dispute that to this organization,
above all others in this generation, must be
applied the saying, “For as concerning this
sect, we know that everywhere it is spoken
against.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
			SPOKANE, MAY 24, 1912.
Pres. E. B. Wells,
	DEAR SISTER: At last I can report our
Relief Society organized here in the Spok-
ane Branch.
	The meetings are all well attended. Sis-
ters are interested and doing a grand work.
	January 4, 1912 when first organized,
Sister Eliza Preston was president. Four
meetings were held and she moved to Idaho.
	There was so much sickness in the branch
things progressed slowly.
	March 31, 1912, Sister Kate Murray was
sustained as president in Sister Preston’s
place.
	We are fortunate in having a woman with
her experience in our midst to lead in this
work. She is the only one in our organiza-
tion that has ever attended Relief Society
meeting. Her home was in Brigham City.
While there, she took an active part in Re-
lief Society, so is of great value to us here.
	I am pleased to say that since she has
been president, a great work has been ac-
complished.
	Two weeks ago the sisters all went to the
Orphans’ Home and served for the home-
less children.
	At our regular sewing meetings we have
made one quilt and have blocks for another
almost ready to put together.
	A better band of workers would be hard
to find than those here. They are all ready
and willing to do whatever they can to help
the work along.
	We have fifteen names on our roll. Please
find a check inclosed for the dime fund.
	Names of officers of the organization as it
stands today and sustained March 3, 1912:
	Sister Kate Murray, President.
	Sister Pauline Van Cleave, First Coun-
selor.
	Sister Ethel Clark, Second Counselor.
	Sister Ada Headlee, Secretary.
	Sister Thyra Nelson, Treasurer.
	Sister Victoria Egbert, Class Leader.
	Sister Anna Wilson, Class Leader.
	We have fifteen enrolled and an average
attendance of twelve at our meetings.
	Sister Wells, we are anxious to keep in
touch with the General Board, so if you have
any suggestions, books, or papers that would
help out in this work, please send them to us.
We are anxious to be a credit and feel we
need all the support you can give us until
we get a little older in the work.
	Received a letter from mother and she
said you had been over to the house, and
spent the afternoon. I should like to have
been there myself. I am enjoying my work.
Have been away from home nineteen
months. Will be released to come home in
October. Eleven months I labored in Port-
land, and the rest of the time here.


They have a fine Relief Society in Port-
land. It was organized before I came but
we have organized the one here in Spokane
also the Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. A.
	They are also doing a most excellent
work.
	Hoping to hear from you sometime in the
near future, I am yours lovingly,
				CATHARINE L. WOODBURY,
			1524 Pacific Ave. West,
						Spokane, Wash.

			MANCOS, COLO, May 27, 1912.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
	Salt Lake City.
	I write to inform you of the change made
in this the San Juan Stake.
	May 21, 1912, there were two stakes or-
ganized.
	The west side is called the Platt Stake
in honor of the late Platt D. Lyman, and
Sister Mary N. Jones is president of the
Relief Society.
	The east side of the stake is called the
Young Stake in honor of Brigham Young,
Jr., and Sister M. M. Halls, the daughter of
F. A. Hammond, is appointed president of 
the Relief Society of the Young Stake. I
have been president of the Mutual Improve-
ment Association for twenty-six years,
though I have also labored in the Relief
Society.
	I would like to receive any instructions
you have to write, as I will not be able to
see you until October conference.
	What is your idea of teachers visiting and 
holding a little meeting with the mother and 
girls, that is to have order about it, and talk 
Relief Society work? 
	My idea is to have the sisters offer a 
prayer before going that the Lord may help
them. If there are any young girls at the
home, call them to sit down with the mother
and listen to the counsel of the teachers.
And then have the mother and girls ex-
press themselves in regard to Relief Society
work. I think that would instill in the
hearts of the young girls the importance of
the work.
	For my part I think there is no grander
association in the Church than the Relief
Society.
	There is a great and noble work to do and
we want the young mothers to learn this 
great truth. 
	I desire to work faithfully in this office
and work up the importance of the Relief
Society. I pray God to help me to do so.
	May the Lord bless you, my dear sister,
and strengthen you for every labor you have 
to do.
		I remain your co-laborer,
						M. M. HALLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	In March the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion held their election of officers and
started on another year of laudable en-
deavor. At the first meeting after this the
new regent, Miss Catherine A. Wells, made
the following interesting address to the
members:
	The honor you have given me I appre-
ciate. I wish to thank those who elected me
and will accept the position, hoping it will
educate me in the things that will make me
strong, that I may be a better patriot than
I have been in the past. I will endeavor
to magnify the position to its uttermost. I


am especially pleased with the officers with
whom you have surrounded me. With dear
Aunt Em’s counsel, Mrs. Willey’s and Ab-
bie’s keen intellect and enthusiasm, Mrs.
Smith’s wisdom and experience and Mrs.
Farnsworth’s ability, I feel strong already.
	I think this Society a very important one
and believe it will some day be a power
for good in our nation. What we need now
is to enthuse the old members and make
our meetings so interesting and popular
that new members will want to join. I wish
every Daughter that is eligible would be-
come a member, as it is a privilege to be a
member of this Society; not that we are any
better than our foreign sisters, but because
we can have the right to honor our fore-
fathers and mothers for the great work
they have accomplished in making us a
free nation; and it seems to me it is our
duty to make patriots of our young people.
In thinking over the regents from Aunt Em
to Mrs. Spencer I think every one that has
held this position has been the right one
in the right place and at the right time when
she could do the most good, and what a 
coterie of intelligent, bright women! I trust
we will continue to progress and be as suc-
cessful in our administration.
	I am so proud of the Matilda Evans
Chapter and I wish we had one in every
town and city in Utah. I am heartily in
favor of the Junior Auxiliary and hope the
mothers and grandmothers will take an in-
terest and have their children join. I think
it would encourage Mrs. Horne if the
members would visit the Junior Auxiliary.
We have in our Society that courtesy which
is so necessary for the good feeling of its
members. I hope we will continue the culti-
vation of it so when we mingle with our as-
sociates and strangers we may ever have
in mind and remember the great example
we have before us of Lafayette’s courtesy
to Mrs. Morris, when he rode through the
streets of Philadelphia.
	There are three things in life that strong-
ly appeal to me: my religion, my home
and my country. I have tried to do my
duty by all. I believe if each and every one
could receive a testimony of our religion
and know the truth for ourselves, and use
that sweet influence in our homes, we could
give to our state better citizens, and to our
country better patriots. I trust that our
Society may progress and increase so it
may be said of the Utah State Society of
the Daughters of the Revolution in the
future that we are the banner society of
the Union.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. 
	Relief Society Conference of the Hyrum
Stake was held on Tuesday, May 21st, in
Hyrum Third Ward meeting house. On the
stand were Alice M. Horne and Jennie A. 
Hyde of the general board, Presidents W. C. 
Parkinson and A. M. Israelsen of the stake
presidency, members of the high council,
and all members of the stake Relief Society
board. President Louisa Allen presided. 
	At the morning meeting Counselor 
George Davis offered the opening prayer. 
	President Louisa Allen gave a good re-
port of the Relief Society of the Stake. We
have ten organizations all in good working
order; we are looking after the needs of
the poor and trying to do a good work. 
	Presidents Marie Wilson of Hyrum First


Ward, and Nettie Price of Paradise each re-
ported the Relief Society in their respective
wards as in good condition.
	Nancy Wahlen of Hyrum Third Ward
sang, “I know my Heavenly Father knows.”
	Alice M. Horne of the general board felt
pleased to be here. Gave many words of
encouragement to the sisters. Spoke of our
educational system. The necessity of care-
ful thought and study. What a responsi-
bility we have in choosing the best methods
and that which is for our best good. It is
well to hold fast to the revealed word of
God. 
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	After the opening exercises a song was
sung by Mrs. Maughan of Wellsville, and a 
paper read on “Success in Life,” by Sister
Vilate Davis.
	Song, Miss Eva Petersen.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde of the general
board addressed the sisters on Relief Society
progress, and complimented us on having
so many young sisters in our organization;
they with all their cares and responsibilities
need the association of the older sisters.
	Song, Sister Yeates and Jessop of Mill-
ville.
	Sister Horne gave an interesting dis-
course on Art. Dwelt on the beauties of na-
ture and natural scenery.
	Sister Nellie Parkinson called the atten-
tion of the ward presidents to the call that
has been made for assistance to the people of
the Mississippi flood district.
	Choir sang, “If There’s Sunshine in Your
Soul.”
	Benediction by Counselor Mary E. Bax-
ter.
			REBECCA C. ALLEN, Sec.


GO PLANT A TREE. 
Oh! what a joy it is to plant a tree!
	And from the sallow earth to watch it rise,
	Lifting its emerald branches to the skies
In silent adoration; and to see 
	Its strength and glory waxing with each
		spring,
	Yes, ’tis a goodly and a gladsome thing 
To plant a tree.

Nature has many marvels; but a tree
	Seems more than marvelous; it is Divine.
	So generous, so tender, so benign, 
Not garrulous, like the rivers, and yet free
	In pleasant converse with the winds and
		birds, 
	Oh privilege beyond explaining words,
To plant a tree.

Rocks are majestic but, unlike a tree,
	They stand aloof and silent. In the roar
	Of ocean billows breaking on the shore
There sounds the voice of turmoil. But a tree
	Speaks ever of companionship and rest.
	Yea of all righteous acts, this, this is the
		best—
To plant a tree.

There is an oak—oh, how I love that tree!—
	Which has been thriving for a hundred years.
	Each day I send my blessing through the
		spheres
For one who gave this triple boon to me
	Of growing beauty, singing birds and shade.
	Wouldst thou win laurels which shall never
		fade?
Go plant a tree!
				—ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.
	(In Ladies’ Home Journal for June.)


The Equal Franchise League of New
York City, founded by Mrs. Clarence Mack-
ay, opened its new suffrage library with a 
public reception on Jan. 25. Mrs. Robert
Goelet, chairman of the entertainment com-
mittee, arranged for a play to be presented
on that occasion, with young ladies of prom-
inent families taking part.

