
Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 29	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1900.	No. 1.


CONTENTS.
Dear Old New England. . . . . . . . . . . . Aunt Em.	1
General Conference Relief Society . . . E. B. W.	2
U. W. P C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grace Anderson	2
R. S. Reports. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	2
Daughters of the Revolution . . Julia. A. F. Lund	3
Canada. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jane V. Bates	4
Current Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Luella Rhodes	5
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6
The Mothers’ Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 
Notes and News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8
EDITORIAL—Pioneer Woman’s Paper . . . . . .	4
A Tribute of Love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	4
Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	4
POETRY—Brigham Young . . . . . Ruth M. Fox	1
A Captive of Two Wars . . . . . . . . Cora Wilburn	3


BRIGHAM YOUNG.

On the first day of June, eighteen hundred and
		one,
	The fair month of perfume and roses,
In the County of Windham, the State of Vermont,
	Where Whitingham village reposes
A prophet was born; how proudly the sun
	Beamed down on the nations that morning,
His glances of love lingering over the town,
	The town that our prophet was born in.

No glittering pageant to emblazon his way,
	No herald to tell of the glory
He would bring to his nation at some future day;
	A hero of song and of story.
Not a hint to the world that a seer was sent,
	An ensign to raise to the people;
That an era was dawning of peace and good will,
	The goal of the ages, the sequel.

Brigham Young thy achievements we witness to-
		day,
	In these green vales of the mountains;
For thou, under God, didst cause deserts to bloom,
	Parched ground to burst forth into fountains,
As far as our vision extends either way,
	Yea, even from centre to border;
On mount, valley and stream thy name is en-
		graved,
	A witness to ev’ry beholder.
Magnificent piles have been reared to his name,
	A people united together,
Called from many a land by the power of God,
	Inspired by the faith of their leader.

O, sons of the prophet, his memory revere,
	Seek naught but to add to his lustre,
As down through the ages it triumphantly rolls,
	Rare gems round his name may you cluster,
When your little ones gather around you at eve,
	Ye daughters, O tell them the story
Of his valor, his wisdom, his honor of God,
	Yea, e’en till your locks have grown hoary.

Today a great people delight in his name,
	Their Moses, whom God did rely on
To lead forth His children from bondage and
		sin,
	To establish a Latter-day Zion
Upon this glorious land, blest home of the free!
	Where forever Thy praises will ring;
For a church with a prophet and seer at its head,
	Whilst Thou art our God and our King.
						RUTH M. FOX.
	Salt Lake City, June 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
DEAR OLD NEW ENGLAND.
	Among the New England hills memor-
ies come back to me that I never recall any
other time or in any other place. There is
in some of us a sort of heredity, perhaps,
that makes us cling with loving and long-
ing to the haunts of nature in which child-
hood has been passed. The time of year
may make some difference in one’s feelings
and the springtime with its buds and early

[Column 2]
blossoms is especially significant of youth,
as well as of beauty in the landscape.
	Journeying from New York, with its
noise and bustle, up through the Connecti-
cut valley and into the heart of New Eng-
land among the beautiful villages nestled
among the green hills is charming in itself
as a delightful ride; and all along the way
one appreciates the quiet that seems so rest-
ful when coming from the hurry and worry
of the modern Gotham, to where time seems
almost to stand still.
	The trees so dear, so fresh in early leaf!
(trees are almost companions to me) and
the brooks so musical and all the blossom-
ing shrubbery on every hand awakens such
tenderness that one must needs be careful
not to betray emotion. Feelings are so in-
tense at such times that one lives richly in
the luxury of nature for the passing
moments, and can scarcely believe how
time passes: the air is full of sweetness and
the hum of insects on the wing and the
bird-songs mingle with the murmur of the
lazy brooklets that glide so smoothly over
the pebbly beds and seem to tell of the hills
from which they come, as in passing one
does exchange a word of greeting, perchance
with even a stranger.
	The day was delightfully warm and the
glowing life imparted by the warm sunshine
and the unalloyed joy of every note in the
melody of nature gave one a serene repose-
fulness that was not unlike a pleasant dream.
Such hours absorb the soul and fill it with
an infinite charm. One could not help feel-
ing the truth of Wordsworth’s lines on such
a day:
	“All bright and glittering in the smokeless air,
		Never did sun more beautifully steep
	In his first splendor, valley, rock or hill.
		Ne’er saw I, never felt a calm so deep!
	The river glideth at its own sweet will,
		Dear God! the very houses seem asleep
	And all that mighty heart is lying still.”
	Flowers and trees and the long tangled
grass are all a part of the pano-
rama. Trees appeal to me with a
power and significance so wonderful that I
can find no words to give expression to the
sentiment. The leaves have a meaning we
have never interpreted, there is a grandeur
about even the gnarled and rugged oaks,
that have withstood the storms of centuries
and remained unmoved, as it were, through
long periods of change.
		“The groves were God’s first temples,”
	This is a theme so delightful that one
would fain linger leisurely over it, but in
this practical, busy life one must tell some-
thing, or the impatient, busy man or
woman of the world will pass it by. We
forget when we are ourselves absorbed that
other people are not so overcharged with
sentimentality.
	Arriving at one of the most picturesque
country villages in the old Bay State,
the welcome given me was of the same
stately fashion of the olden time, and one
could easily imagine time had gone back-
ward. Yet there were railroads everywhere
and electric cars, bicycles and all the
modern electrical agencies in operation,

[Column 3]
but none of the brusqueness and feverish
excitement of the West.
	The gentleness of manner, the mildness
of expression and the sweetness of tone, all
harmonize with the beauty of the hills and
groves and brooks of which the poets have
sung thro’ the century.
	But one hastens on from place to place
to take just a look at familiar scenes
of the long ago, and as neither trains nor
streetcars run in out of the way places one
must have a carriage, so with a surrey (not
an “old-fashioned shay”) five of us rode
through half a dozen sleeping villages,
nestled down among those dear old hills.
What a wonderful ride that was, one never
to be forgotten, and how we all plied Sister
Pallas with questions about this place and
that and how many times I said to her,
“dear, you ought to know, for you have
been here all these years and I have been so
far away.” The once familiar scenes
brought old memories long since stored
away in some remote corner of the brain,
but not lost, for they come back with such
force that they almost awaken the old
echoes among the hills. We went up and
down and round about, gazing into the
ponds where the water-lilies grew, and
where we went rowing and skating, long
ago, and plunging into groves of the sweet-
scented hemlock, stopping at the same old
schoolhouses where we were taught when
children, and the meeting house with its
long rows of stalls for the horses at the
back, standing just as they did of yore, but
inside the Church was remodelled, the high
pulpit and cushioned pews with doors, had
been taken out and the gallery where we
used to sing from the old Watt’s hymn
book, when the choir leader used a tuning
fork. Now the whole appearance is modern;
but we wandered about and finally to the
home I left when starting for Nauvoo: the
place desolate, the well still the same, tho’
the old sweep had gone within the last few
years, but the neighbors still think it the
best and purest water in the village: the
brook near the well and the old home, still
runs through the hemlock groves, where
on the first day of March when a hole had
been cut in the solid ice, I went down into
the water and was baptized, the last and the
youngest of eight who received that or-
dinance of the Gospel on that day.
	The apple trees were budding into bloom
and the magnificent juniper tree which has
been the home of the humming bird for
three score years, still stands in the front
yard in its stately pride.
	The roses and lilac bushes were all gone
and only a few herbs in the kitchen garden
have lived like the trees without care.
Deserted and desolate are many of the
homes from which the Latter-day Saints
emigrated to Nauvoo early in the Forties.
	The many that we knew were nearly all
gone, the family Doctor who lived next
door with only a lane between our houses,
has gone to his rest; the minister’s house
just beyond, black with age like many
more; the old Academy with its grove of
pines, has been better kept, the boys still
play ball on the common. We drive on to-


wards another village, and espy some dis-
tance from the road the Pond House, where
many. Mormon meetings were held and we
plainly discern the pond where a great many
baptisms were performed in the years ’41
and ’42 The house, the farm and the
pond belonged to Stillman Pond who died 
some years ago in Cache Valley, and who
has left a large posterity to honor his name,
the grandfather of Sister Almira Merrill,
wife of (Apostle M. W. Merrill) and great
grandfather of Professor Joseph Merrill,
of the Utah University. One of his young-
er sons is president of Bannock Stakes of
Zion in Idaho, and one or more are now
filling missions abroad. From this part of
Massachusetts come also the Woodbury’s,
well known for their zeal in the Gospel, the
Haskells, the Aikens, the Pomeroys and
others who have been true and faithful in
the Church.
	We drove to Whitemore’s corner,
where Sister Pallas had said “good bye” to
our blessed mother when she forsook her
home she loved so well, her children dearer
than life itself, and with the three youngest
began the long and then tedious journey to
Nauvoo, bidding those she left behind the
last Farewell though she knew it not, for
her faith was great, and her hopes were
bright.
					AUNT EM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY
			(Conclusion.)
	Counselor Ellen Thueson, of Sevier Stake,
said they had held their last conference in
Grass Valley and the sisters in that locality
turned out well and they had a good time,
also on the 17th of March the meetings
were very enjoyable.
	President B. W. Smith spoke very im-
pressively about sustaining the EXPONENT,
felt it was the duty of the sisters, all who
were able, to take it and read it. She had
taken it from the beginning, and could not
do without it, it contained many matters
necessary for the sisters and much historical
data. Urged the sisters to labor in the
Temple, not to neglect their dead, if they
did their sorrows would be great in a day to
come.
	President Jane S. Richards: “Our
meeting is never long enough. I hope we
shall all remember what Sister Zina has
told us today, let us pray that she may live
and yet visit many Stakes of Zion. Brother
Hammond has said the Relief Society 
meetings are the best he has ever attended.
I feel that they are the best for us.” Sister
Richards spoke very sweetly about the
children and babies, told a story of being in
a meeting when the brothers or Bishop
asked those who had babies to stay down
by the door. She wanted the babies to
come up around the stand. We want to
begin with the children while they are small
and train them to go to meeting and love
it, and we who are older can begin with our
grandchildren. Let us be diligent in all
our duties, pay our donations, now this ten
cent donation is not one cent a month, there
has to be money to carry on this work,
you cannot have a celebration everywhere,
but we can do whatever is practicable in the
locality. “In Ogden we always have a
good sized conference, the people turn out
well. We do want to have our young girls
come and join the Relief Society. If they
are young girls now they will grow older
and have to take their part as the older sis-

[Column 2]
ters do, and how much better it will be to
begin young. You will be glad when you
meet the Prophet Joseph, who organized
this society, that you are among those who
carried out his instructions. He was like
an angel when he spoke to us, many times
his face was transparent.”
	President F. A. Hammond: “Time is
very precious to us. Society meetings are
among the very best I have ever attended.
The sisters in Moab had a good time at
their anniversary meeting, March 17. I
realize the necessity of sustaining the EX-
PONENT, I have felt many times that it was
worthy better support than it received from
the sisters. In my travels and journeyings
all the country round, I meet with the sis
ters in their organizations and try to en-
courage them in their duties; and storing
up wheat is one of the obligations of the
society, some have done more than others.
These aged sisters who preside some of
them I have known over fifty years. I re-
joice to see them here today and to behold
their faces, and I pray the Lord to bless
them and to give them life and health as
long as they desire it on the earth.
	Counselor Angeline Hinckley, of Millard
Stake, spoke of the long trips they had to
make by team when visiting the country;
yet they always felt blest and richly repaid
for any weariness or inconvenience. They
held conferences in the different parts of the
the Stake.
	President Zina D. H. Young blessed the
sisters.
	There was a motion made to thank the
choir and all those who had taken part in
the music, which carried unanimously.
	The choir sang “Should you feel inclined
to censure.’ Conference adjourned for six
months. Benediction by President Zina D.
H. Young.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


U. W. P. C.
	The regular meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held in the EXPONENT office, April 30,
1900, the president in the chair. Opening
prayer by Dr. Romania B. Pratt. Quota-
tions from Ruskin. A communication say-
ing that badges could be obtained by mem-
bers of the club was read; also a communi-
cation from the General Federation con-
cerning our dues. It was decided by the
club that since we have withdrawn from
the General Federation our dues will not be
sent. A communication was read concern-
ing our delegate to Milwaukee. The club
decided to send no delegate. The presi-
dent reported from the club council. The
council asked the club ladies of the city to
pay ten cents each to bring some noted
lecturer here to the next Annual State
Federation to be held in October. Mrs.
Emma J. McVicker spoke in favor of hav-
ing some one come. Dr. R. B. Pratt moved
we pay the ten cents; Ruth M. Fox
seconded—carried. The subject of estab-
lishing a free Kindergarten was also re-
ferred to, after which the program was
carried out as follows:
	Bessie Shirley gave a talk on mines and
mining and a chain discussion was entered
into by all members present on the best way
to obtain obedience from children.
	Closing prayer by Ruth M. Fox.
			GRACE ANDERSON, Rec. Sec.


MISS MARY E. WILKINS has just started
on her first journey to Europe.


R. S. REPORTS.
OAK CREEK ANNIVERSARY.
	Minutes of the Oak Creek Ward Relief
Society meeting, held March 17, 1900,
President Caroline E. Lyman presiding.
Singing by the choir. Prayer by Joseph
A. Lyman. Continued with singing.
	Bishop Peter Anderson made some
timely remarks. Song entitled “Daughters
of Zion, the Friends of the Poor,” by
Susan Finlinson, Rebecca Jacobson and
Annie L. Henderson. Stake President
Elizabeth Yates then spoke to us on our
duties as members of the society. Bishop
Yates, of Scipio, also made a few remarks,
and President Caroline E. Lyman spoke a
short time. Mary M. Lyman read the
minutes of the first Relief Society meeting
held in Nauvoo. Singing by the choir and
benediction by Brother George Finlinson.
	Refreshments were then served and a
nice, sociable time was enjoyed by all.
		ANNIE L. ANDERSON, Sec.
UTAH STAKE 
	On the 27th of April we held our quart-
erly conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake at Manilla Ward, near Pleasant
Grove. We had a fine time with a very
large atten[-]ance of brethren and sisters.
They made some changes in their Board of
Directors at their annual meeting in Feb-
ruary, which they will forward you in the
near future.
	Since the above date we have visited
Springville, Mapleton, Spanish Fork,
Salem and Payson. We had a profitable
time at each place, laying before the sis- 
ters their duties in the Reief Society as
members, and our obligations in this
Latter-day work, advising them to be
charitable and liberal, etc. Some are very
enthusiastic in building granaries to store
more wheat this coming season. There are
two new granaries in this county dedicated
to the Lord this year, and one nearly
finished and others anticipating to build in
the near future, by harvest time, if possi-
ble, and getting houses for meetings also
is their theme.
	I believe all are advancing in Relief
Society work and desire to learn more of
the work of the Lord. We are having
new bishopric in the Stake, hence new
Relief Society branches. A new Bishop
in the suburbs of Spanish Fork called upon
me inviting the presidency of the Relief
Society of this Stake to visit the new ward
to help organize a Relief Society in Leland
Ward. Brother Markham being Bishop, he
was present with his counselors. The
officers are: Maria Scoville, president;
Margaret Chishlom, first vice-president; Ruth
Bowen, Sarah Markham and Emma Cam-
mack, directors; Mrs Margaret Davis, Jer-
ome Jensen and Mary A. Thomas, trustees.
	They were very united on the nomina-
tions and I think they will work with en-
thusiasm. There has been several changes
in the Relief Society in the last annual
meeting which will be forwarded to you
shortly.
		Yours very respectfully,
						M. JOHN.


EX-QUEEN LILIUOKALANI has com-
pleted a volume and has applied for a copy-
right certificate, giving the name of the
book as The Hawaiian Tradition of the
Creation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A CAPTIVE OF TWO WARS.
I live in prison, though my open door 
	Leads out upon the sunny fields and glens;
I feel the clank of chains that evermore
	Forged by the cruel fates beyond my ken,
The spirit chafes, the heart keeps sad and sore.

Burdens of sorrow might imprison me.
	Though leaving windows light and open door;
I live alone with tasks of Liberty,
	And weep for Fillippino and the Boer;
But I would up, and striving, helpful be!

Comes the dread message of the winds and waves,
	From tropic shores the wail of anguish riven
From desperate souls that will not be the slaves
	Of any tyrant ’neath the vault of heaven;
The cry of mothers by ensanguined graves!

Tears, though of blood, full of swift heart appeal—
	Would dazzled eyes see only fields of gold:
While such as I can only think and feel, 
	Who listens to Great Freedom’s mandates old?
What strife victorious would relent to heal?

I am not free while they my dark, skinned brothers
	Their rightful freedom nobly strive to win;
While sordid greed their aspiration smothers,
	The patriot’s aim denounce as mortal sin;
Who dares be happy through the loss of others ?

’Neath prison walls I wait the gleaming token
	Of blest deliverance eye and heart shall greet;
The healing touch upon the heart nigh broken,
	God’s messenger of peace with hallowing feet!
Who brings the ringing word of Freedom spoken!
					CORA WILBURN,
	EX.


[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	Undoubtedly the ladies have read the
account of the eighth annual meeting of the
D. R. that appeared in Harper’s Bazaar
of May 6. This article is written by Miss
A. W. Sterling and deals principally with
the question of the union of the D. R. and
the D. A. R.
	Then Miss Snow has told you in a very
eloquent manner of the journey of the dele-
gation to the place of meeting, and of their
reception in Philadelphia. Consequently it
will be unnecessary for me to say very
much on either of the above mentioned
subjects. I shall try not to repeat the
things already told, and shall, as nearly as
possible, confine myself to a brief descrip-
tion of the places visited, which are all of
the greatest importance to the Daughters of
the Revolution. And there is so little in-
formation that can be obtained about many
of the sites, except by a visit to the spot it-
self.
	Washington, our nation’s capital, is cer-
tainly rich in historic relics, as well as in
its artistic beauty, though its foundation
dates from a period after the Revolution.
All of the Government buildings, the
Library of Congress, the Museum and Art
Gallery are a credit to any country, but as
Daughters of the Revolution the places and
characters that figure so conspicuously in
our Revolution are the dearest to us. We
are told that Washington himself selected
the site of the White House and planned
its erection, but John Adams was the first
occupant. Perhaps there is not another
spot in America that appeals to us in just
the same way as does Mt. Vernon—and I
wish to speak of this particularly, as it is to
a woman’s courage and energy that we owe
the preservation of this “shrine of patriot-
ism.” This property we know belonged to
Lawrence Washington, a half brother of
George’s, and several years his senior.
Lawrence built the Manor House and called
it after Admiral Vernon, under whom he
sailed and for whom he cherished the
warmest friendship. On the death of
Lawrence and his only daughter, George
inherited Mt. Vernon. It was from this

[Column 2]
spot he was called to the field of battle,
from this spot he was called to be president
of the United States and from this spot his
magnificent soul took its flight to higher
regions. I was much impressed by the
following quotation which is printed in the
library at Mt. Vernon, and was written by
Dr. Andrew Reed, an eminent English
philanthropist, on visiting the tomb of
Washington in 1833:
			Washington
The Brave	The Wise		The Good
			Washington,
	Supreme in War, in Council and in Peace,
Valiant		Discreet		Confident
			Washington,
Without		Without		Without
Ambition		Fear			Presumption
			Washington,
In disaster calm, in success moderate, in all, Himself,
			Washington,
The Hero		The Patriot	The Christian
The Father of Nations the friend of Mankind,
			who,
	When he had won all, renounced all
			and sought
	In the bosom of his family and of nature
			Retirement,
		And in the hope of religion,
			Immortality.
	Every spot of ground and every article in
any way connected with our hero is sacred
to us, but of all the things that were con
nected with Washington, from the cradle to
the grave, there was nothing else that ap-
pealed to me so strongly as did his swords,
which I knew had never been drawn in any
cause but that of right and humanity. Three
of these hang in a case in the main hall at
Mt. Vernon, and beneath the case contain-
ing them is the following clause taken from
his will:
	These swords are accompanied with the injunction
not to unsheath them for the purpose of shedding
blood except it be for self-defence, or in defence of
their country and its rights; and in the latter case
to keep them unsheathed and prefer falling with
them in their hands to the relinquishment thereof
	In 1855 John Augustine Washington was
unable to keep the estate of Mt. Vernon
and was therefore compelled to offer it for
sale. Miss Ann P. Cunningham, of South
Carolina, decided to save this sacred spot as
a possession of the nation, if possible. In
1858 the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
of the Union was organized Miss Cun-
ningham was made Regent and twelve states
were represented by vice-Regents. The
ladies were aided in their splendid work by
some of the most prominent men in our
country, such as Edward Everett and
Washington Irving. The sum required for
purchasing the property was raised and
each state seems to have vied with the
other in refurnishing the rooms, supplying
relics and preserving with remarkable ac-
curacy and faithfulness every detail of our
Washington’s home. This magnificent
work should be an object lesson to the
Daughters of the Revolution, and certainly
we cannot be too grateful to this band of
noble women.
	Perhaps the most interesting church to
be visited in the East is Old Christ’s Church,
in Alexandria, Ga., for George Washington
was one of the first vestry-men of this
church and his pew remains just as he left
it, with a fac-simile of his autograph on a
steel plate on the door of the pew. The
pastor from this church, Rev. Charles
Davis, preached the funeral sermon at
Washington’s funeral.
	We reached Philadelphia on Saturday
afternoon and were fortunate enough to
secure very pleasant quarters at the Strat-

[Column 3]
ford Hotel, the D. R. headquarters.
	Miss Emily H. Cannon came from Bos-
ton Saturday evening, to our intense de-
light, and Utah’s delegation was full, and
I may say, we were decidedly the youngest
delegate present. We had expected to be
kindly received by the Eastern D. R’s.,
for it is undoubtedly true that in no other
association of women is there manifest the
cordiality, nor the bond of sisterhood so
strongly felt, as in these patriotic societies,
but we could scarcely have anticipated the
reception that met us. Miss Snow has so
admirably described it that it would be
superfluous for me to add anything; but I
must say that from the President-General
and her two “vices,” as Miss Sterling and
Miss Hunt style themselves, all the officers
and Board of managers and the D. R’s.
from most remote parts are women to be
admired, respected and loved.
	Miss Sterling has graphically described
the Old Swede’s Church, on Sunday, April 23.
Monday, April 24, the business meeting
was held. This occupied the entire day
and a part of the evening. The order of
business as set forth in the program was
closely followed. Every member of the
society will receive, as soon as it is printed,
a complete account of the business meeting.
The question of a union of the D. R. and
D. A. R. was considered in a dignified and
decisive manner and unless a better plan
of uniting the two can be suggested than
any yet proposed, there will certainly never
be a union, for the D. R’s. would gain very
little for what they would have to surrender.
There is not a society in America that has a
stronger, more liberal, exalted
and progressive organization than
the Daughters of the Revolution, who work
under the colors chosen by George Wash-
ington himself, and have as their motto
Liberty, Home and Country. The nomin-
ating commitiee to nominate seven ladies to
fill the vacancies that would occur in the
Board of managers, consisted of one mem-
ber from each state. I had the honor of
representing Utah, and the ladies nomina-
ted were all elected.
	The Washington Memorial Fund was
spoken of, also the Prison Ship Martyr’s
Association, and the Daughters were urged
to assist both. The organization of the
Junior Auxiliary in every state was strong-
ly recommended. The reports from the
different states were very interesting, and I
realized more than ever the necessity of
having some organized plan for study and
of doing something in a public way when
possible.
	You know the order of our excursions as
the program mapped out was closely fol-
lowed. The first place visited in “Old
Philadelphia” was Carpenters Hall. This
place was built in 1770 by the Carpenter’s
Guild, and remains just as it was when just
concluded. Within this building on the
5th day of September, 1774, was convened
the first Continential Congress, with Pey-
ton Randolph as president, and delegates
from the thirteen colonies. Over one of
the large doors, just opposite the street en-
trance, is this inscription: “Within these
walls Henry Hancock and Adams inspired
the delegates of the colonies with the nerve
and sinew for the toils of war.”
	From here we went to Independence
Hall. This building is very carefully kept.
There are many fine old pictures to be
seen, but the objects of greatest interest are
the table and chair used in signing the
Declaration of Independence.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1900.


PIONEER WOMAN’S PAPER.
	This number of the paper, June first,
nineteen hundred is the commencement of
the Twenty-ninth volume of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT. It is the oldest woman’s
paper in the West, and the first established
except the New North West in Portland,
Oregon; that was discontinued several
years since. At the time this paper was
first issued, there were few women in any
of the professions, and even women teachers
received very small salaries and hardly
ventured to speak up in meeting; but
wonderful developments have been made
in woman’s work and woman’s sphere dur-
ing the last thirty years Those who have
watched the progress of affairs must be
aware how marvelously woman herself has
kept pace with the spirit of the age, not
only in the East, where every facility for
advancement is easy of access, but in the
far West, where all was very crude and
new but half a century ago.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
ZINA SMOOT WHITNEY.

“There is no death—the thing that we call death
	Is but another sadder name for life,
Which is itself an insufficient name,
	Faint recognition of that unknown Life
That Power whose shadow is the universe.”

	When we think of the beautiful woman
whose name is mentioned here, we cannot
feel that she is dead, and as we sat pen in
hand meditating, the poet’s words we have
quoted came fresh to mind, although we
had not thought of them for years. Zina
has passed from earth to another sphere,
she has gone home to her Father and
Mother in heaven, and her little babe,
Heber, and to her earthly father and
mother, and many more whom she knew
and loved while here. We who loved her—
children, husband and friends—cannot call
her back, do what we may, but we can
cherish her memory, emulate her good
deeds, her many virtues, her tender, sweet
words and ways, her gentleness, her purity.
We could not wish to have her live and
suffer longer; she has gone where there is
no pain nor sorrow, nor will there be any
more sad partings for her to endure, and
by and by we shall go to her if we are
worthy.

[Column 2]
“So—through fierce winds blowing.
	Through rough desert ways,
Through long nights whose dreary darkness
	Reaches o’er the days,
So He brings them home at last
Safe from every stormy blast!

So—through cares and trials,
	Through temptations strong,
Through dead hopes whose joyous blossoms
	Have been wasted long;
So He brings His chosen Home
Nevermore to sadly roam!”

	Sister Whitney’s many attractive char-
acteristics endeared her to those with whom
she was associated; and she had a large
circle of intimate friends, as well as
relatives whose hearts were deeply touched
when they realized that she had gone for-
ever from their view. But her children
live and whatever affection or tenderness
may be bestowed upon them the mother
will appreciate as if it were done to her,
and even more, for now her capacity for
love will be greater than before. She
“wore the badge of motherhood with
most becoming grace,” and now that she
cannot minister to the little ones she
loved so tenderly, will watch her little
flock with even greater solicitude. And
we who remain count not those lost who
died loving us.
	Zina Smoot Whitney, beloved wife of
Bishop O. F. Whitney, was born February
20, 1859, and was the daughter of the Hon.
Abraham O. and Emily H. Smoot. Sister
Whitney passed peacefully away at her
home in this city, on Sunday afternoon,
May 20, 1900, aged forty-one years and
three months.
	The funeral was held at the family
residence on Wednesday, May 23. The
rooms were beautifully decorated with
flowers, the loving gifts of her dear friends,
who with their own hands arranged them
and also made the dainty garments in
which she was robed and laid away.
	The funeral services were held at 2 p.
m. and were tender and impressive, the
music being particularly fine, and the
speakers were sympathetic as well and in-
spirational. Her grave was literally
covered with exquisite floral tributes. Her
last resting place was dedicated by Elder
Rulon S. Wells, and the quartette of sing-
ers rendered the beautiful hymn “Rest on
the Hillside, Rest.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer will entertain dur-
ing the Paris Exposition in the house of
the Marquis de Montgomery, near the
Trocadero, which she has rented. It is
said that she is paying for it $4,000 a
month rental.
	The anniversary of the birthday of
President Brigham Young is being cele-
brated today, June 1. The children of the
city have brought beautiful flowers in
great abundance with which the statue of
the great pioneer and the monument are
being festooned and garlanded; bands are
playing and cannons have been fired by
the veteran artillery men early this morn-
ing. Services in the Tabernacle are a part
of the program, including an address by
President Lorenzo Snow, and in the after-
noon an excursion to Saltair, in which the
public are invited to participate. This is
one of the notable days for Utah when
they delight to honor this great pioneer
and leader, certainly one of the foremost
men of the nineteenth century.


Mrs. Martha G. Wells, mother of the
Governor, gave a Kensington at their resi-
dence on First Street, on Friday, May
18, from two to six p. m. About sixty
ladies, mostly intimate friends and relatives,
were present. The handsome rooms were
artistically decorated with roses, carnations
and choice flowers, and the elegantly
dressed ladies with their gaily colored
embroidery and needlework, made a bril-
liant picture, the brisk flow of conversa-
tion, the greeting of old friends and the
hearty good feeling that pervaded the
company was most enjoyable. Delicious
refreshments were daintily served and the
afternoon seemed only too short for such a
happy gathering.
	The D. R. Society gave a musical on
Monday evening, May 28, at the residence
of Mrs W. J. Beatie, for the benefit of the
Scofield sufferers. The large and com-
modious parlors were beautifully decorated
with the stars and stripes and the D. R.
colors, blue and buff, and lovely flowers
made the place fragrant with sweetest per-
fume. Helds band played choice national
selections on the lawn which was brilliant
for the occasion with electric lights.
General Charles Burton was Master of
Ceremonies, and the young and talented
Arthur Shepherd took charge of the piano,
playing the accompaniments for the sing-
ers, which the ladies felt was a very great
favor. Mrs. Willard Croxall rendered a
song in French and also one in English.
Miss Mabel Cooper, whose name is well
known in Salt Lake, also favored the com-
pany with one of her finest pieces, and Mr.
Walter Wallace, who has a fine bass voice,
also sang one of his best solos. Refresh-
ments were served to all guests, and the
ladies of the society feel the affair was a
success both socially and financially.


CANADA.
	The Alberta Stake Relief Society met in
conference at Cardston, May 12, 1900,
Stake President Mary L. Woolf presiding,
Meeting opened by singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” Prayer by Counselor Jane
Hinman. Singing, “How firm a founda-
tion.” Roll called, fourteen officers present.
Minutes of forenoon session of previous
conference were read.
	President M. L. Woolf rejoiced to see so
many young mothers with their babes
present. Felt that the minutes just read
were full of inspiration. We must culti-
vate the spirit of God continually, that our
influence may always be felt. Knew the
Lord would bless us and we would feel
doubly paid for the little sacrifices made to
attend our conference.
	President Sarah B. Daines, of Cardston,
felt the work of the Relief Society was a
noble mission for the daughters of Zion.
Reported the Cardston society. The sisters
are united and faithful in their duties, but
the attendance at meeting was not so large
as she desired.
	President Elizabeth Webb, of the
Mountain View society, reported their
society as being in good condition. The
sisters are united and trying to do their
duty. She had enjoyed her visit in Utah
very much, had seen the hand of the Lord
made manifest to a great extent in the heal-
ing of the sick.
	Counselor Eva Hansen reported the
Aetna society as being in an improved con-
dition, although scattered. The sisters are
united and energetic in their duties.


[Column 1]
	President Annie Baker gave a favorable
report of the Leavitt society.	Some of the
sisters walk three miles to attend their
meeting. We are blest with good weather.
Felt we would have a prosperous year and
we should be grateful for our blessings.
	Singing, “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded.”
	President Maria Bennett, of Magrath,
society, had been called with her husband
to settle in the country, and had been hap-
pily surprised. The sisters are energetic
and faithful in their labors and have a very
prosperous society. Desired the spirit of
her calling that she might be able to per-
form her duty.
	Stake Counselor Jane Hinman bore her
testimony to the blessings received through
fasting and prayer. Knew the sick had
been healed. “We are progressive, our
president is alive to her duties and has the
spirit of her calling.” Spoke on the princi-
ple of obedience. If we perform our duties
as mothers our children will respect and
obey us. We should teach our children 
patience and self-denial.
	President M. L. Woolf endorsed the re-
marks in regard to fasting and prayer, and
added her testimony.
	Minutes read and approved. Singing,
"We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Benediction by Sister Sarah Gibbs.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.,
Counselor Jane Hinman presiding. Sing-
ing, “Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Patriarch Henry L. Hinman.
Singing, “Down by the river’s verdant
side.” Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read.
	Counselor Rhoda E. Hinman said: “We
are living in a day of progress, when we
cease to progress we cease to perform our
duties. We are living in an eventful time
when the prophecies are being fulfilled, we
should be prayerful, we worship a God who
hears and answers prayers.
	President Catherine Pilling of Ætna:
“We have many things to be thankful for
and above all we should be grateful for the
Gospel and live up to its requirements. We
should as sisters overlook each others failing.
	President M. L. Woolf said the General
Board desires a representation from each
Stake at the General Relief Society Confer-
ence at Salt Lake City. She presented the
name of Sister Zina Y. Card as an aid to
the Alberta Stake. Carried unanimously.
“Mothers should always be able to govern
themselves and seek for power to train their
children properly that they may grow up
useful in the kingdom of God.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card said she had attended
the General Relief Society Conference and
gave instructions received. The 17th of
March should be remembered as the day of
the first organization of the Relief Society by
the Prophet Joseph Smith. It should be ob-
served as a ten cent fund day and could be
celebrated as desired, the president of each
branch being responsible for the fund. The
Stake officers should visit each society once
a year, and twice if convenient. A class
should be called to be trained as nurses in
each Stake, we should study to care proper-
ly for the sick.	The Stake officers’
meeting should be held quarterly; local
officers’ once a month.	The sisters should
build houses and granaries, as their means
will allow after the poor are properly taken
care of. Spoke of our average attendance
not being as large as it should be according
to the members enrolled.

[Column 2]
	Duet by Mamie Ibey and Rhoda Duce,
“God be With You till We meet Again.”
	Counselor Elizabeth Hammer said the
prayer offered up at the beginning of the
meeting had been answered and we had
been strengthened. In reading the confer-
ence news she had felt the same spirit that
was with the Apostles and with the priest-
hood in this land.
	Patriarch John A. Woolf addressed the
conference: “The labors of the sisters run
in a different channel to those of the breth
ren, but all is for the building up of the
kingdom of God.” Spoke upon the law of
tithing, we would be judged from the
books and we want our names written in
the Book of the Lord. Our children should
be taught to pay their tithing that they may
not neglect this duty when grown, they
should also be taught obedience to the
priesthood. Mothers have a great deal of
influence with their children, also with their
husbands.
	Brother C. O. Card spoke upon the law
of tithing, ten thousand members of this
Church had cut themselves short of the
blessings of God. Advised the Saints to
pay their debts and endeavor to keep out.
Spoke upon the product of cheese and but-
ter making, advised the Saints to be self-
sustaining in these and other things, as far
as possible, and not depend altogether on
imported goods. Gave many good in-
structions upon temporal matters. If we
are united, our labors will be light; if we
keep the commandments of God, we will
soon have a Temple in our midst.
	Singing, “O, my Father.” Benediction
by Counselor Thomas Duce.
			JANE W. BATES, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CURRENT EVENTS.
(Read at the U. W. P. C. May 31, 1900.)
Madame Chairman and Ladies:
	In order to get over the worst part first, I
will commence this paper with the awful
calamity at Scofield, by which a large num-
ber of women and children were
left homeless and helpless. A calamity like
this is unparalleled in the United States.
	On the morning of May 1st over two hun-
dred men went to work as usual in the
mine. In a few hours their mangled re-
mains were being brought to the surface. A
large proportion of these were heads of
families. My sympathy went out to the
poor Finn women, who could speak no
English, and could only sit and moan.
Imagine ourselves where we could not
speak the language, and our loved ones
buried in a debris of fallen earth and tim-
ber.
	The disastrous results of this accident
have only been exceeded by one, which oc-
curred in Wales some years ago, in which
five hundred were killed in a mine explo-
sion. The largest one in the United
States, previous to the Scofield accident, oc-
curred in Pennsylvania, in which over one
hundred men lost their lives.
	We should be proud of the citizens of
Utah, and also citizens of other states, who
responded so nobly to the call for finance.
It is well, for we know not the hour that
we may need help ourselves.
	It is not war alone that makes heavy
drafts upon the courage and happiness of
women, since in many of the hazardous
vocations “Men must work and women
must weep.” The work of the world calls

[Column 2]
for sacrifices every hour. Every day lives
are snuffed out, and every day the world is
engaged in burying its dead. After the
funeral, the work has to be picked up and
carried on, so it is an endless chain, and life
itself is but a long funeral procession, until
it is closed at the grave.
	Almost heart-rending reports come from
India, bringing news of the pitiful condi-
tion of the country more than ever to the
public view. Cholera is gathering in its
deadly hold ninety millions of people, who
are living in the midst of pestilence and
misery.
	The government is exerting itself to
meet the emergency, but not more than five
million can be relieved. The roads are
crowded with ghastly bands seeking to es-
cape from stricken territories, but for lack
of food and water succumb in the attempt,
and the roads are dotted with heaps of dead
and dying. In some parts of India the
bodies lie exposed to the sun, as the inhabi-
tants are dying more rapidly than the sur-
vivors can provide for the dead.
	An appeal from London says that the
United States ought to at least contribute a
million of dollars toward a relief fund. An-
other from Calcutta says that owing to the
fact that the English are engaged in the
somewhat expensive task of reducing the
South African Republic to the same Colon-
ial vassalage, the government has not been
able to do as much for the succor of the
people of India as it might under other
circumstances.
	Every American sympathizes with these
sufferers in far off Asia. The deplorable
condition produced by crop failure has been
intensified by the financial system enforced
on the people of the unhappy land by the
London bankers. No doubt the United
States would raise the one million, without
much trouble, but while we are sending
money into this British colony, the British
are sending money out to aid in the spoila-
tion in other lands.
	The Philadelphia Ledger has this to say
about England.
	She is sending millions out in carrying out an
aggressive and unjust war against South Africa,
while neglecting the manifest duties towards sub
jects who being under paternal sway, should be
equally the subjects of paternal solicitude. If
England can afford to spend so much money for
the taking of the lives of the Boers, she should be
able to spend a tithe of the sum to save the live
of her starving people in India. If England in-
sists upon spreading death and desolation in South
Africa and squandering her millions in this way,
what is left for humanity to do, but to feed and
care for her starving subjects and colonists in
Asia?
	The Paris Exposition of 1900 was formal-
ly opened on April 14, M. Milerand, the
Socialist Minister of Commerce, was chosen
to deliver the inaugural address. Like all
expositions the present one was opened
some weeks before the buildings were
ready. The number of American exhibi-
tors is second only to those of France, and
far ahead of all other competitors. Where
England has only one thousand, Germany
three thousand, the United States has seven
thousand exhibitors.
	The American section occupies three
hundred and twenty-nine thousand, and
fifty-two square feet, with forty-seven dis-
tinct exhibition spaces. There is every
reason to believe that the exhibition will
have good effect beyond its commercial suc-
cess.
	After three years of almost incessant tur-
moil, it need hardly be said that the Fre


(Column 1)
people have put forth every effort to make
the Exposition successful. The number of
French exhibits reach thirty thousand,
twelve thousand more than all foreign
competitors put together. The grounds
have been laid and the buildings erected in
accordance with the French taste which is
so universally admired.
	Germany has shown particular friendli-
ness, and the Russian section was opened
with special ceremonies, the occasion being
the presentation of a personal gift from the
Czar to France.
	The Queen of Saxony visited the Exposi-
tion, and set an example that will probably
be followed by all the Royalty of Europe.
	One of the most delightful places to live
in is the little village of Ætenburg, Europe.
It is ruled by no monarch, has no soldiers,
no police and no taxes. It is where four
countries meet, but belongs to none.
	The railway system in the Phillipine
Islands consists of a single line of antiquated
cars running over a road of less than 125
miles. To give us an idea of the form of
travel and transportation under the long
Spanish regime: This road connects Manil-
la with Dagupan, a town on the east coast
of the Island of Luzon. The gauge of the
road is three feet six inches, the ties of the
finest hardwood, the locomotives are insig-
nificant. The speed averages less than fif-
teen miles an hour. When the American
troops took possession of the Island, their
railroading astonished the natives, the speed
being frequently doubled. Compartment
coaches are used, each apartment seating
eight people. The first class are provided
with cane chairs: the second class, rough
wooden benches; the third class, entirely
bare and are usually crowded with natives
carrying baskets and bundles of all de-
scriptions.
	The recent visit of Queen Victoria to the
Emerald Isles was an occasion of rejoicing
and the heartiest welcome possible. All
accounts agree that as a mere matter of
artistic display, the Queen’s reception sur-
passed the Jubilee celebration of 1897. And
far more remarkable was the irrepressible
delight of the Irish people at having the
Queen again among them, after an absence
of nearly forty years. The visit was
undertaken in recognition of the bravery
of the Irish soldiers in South Africa, and no
attempt was made on either side to give it a
political coloring.
	On the 24th of this mouth was the 81st
birthday of this noble queen. For sixty-
five years she has dignified the English
throne with the noblest attributes of en-
lightened womanhood. As wife, mother
and monarch she has presented an example
of honor, virtue, piety and patience which
has served as a constant inspiration to her
subjects. The world has seen few such
queenly women, never a more womanly
queen.
	Alaska promises to be of more service in
other ways than producing gold. A curi-
ous and interesting part is the effort to save
our wild animals from extinction. Thirty-
five small, bare Alaskan islands are occupied
by fox farmers who are breeding wild foxes.
They pay the United States $100 a year for
these islands. The blue fox has been in
line of extinction with the buffalo, wild
pigeon and the ruffed grouse. The fox
farmers pay from $150.00 to $200.00 per
pair for breeding animals, and mnst wait a
dozen years for profit, then the profits are
large.	The animals are fed on unmarket-

(Column 2)
able fish, blubbers and cornmeal. Each
island is in charge of a keeper and two or
three native assistants. The Island of
Kadiak has 1275 foxes bred by an enter-
prising Long Islander, who believes that
this will lead to the domestication of many
other fur bearing animals.
	The Supreme Court decision just handed
down in the Kentucky gubernatorial con-
test puts an end to a disgraceful controversy.
In Kentucky for over a century the ques-
tion of disputed governorship has been one
for the legislative assembly to decide. 	It
did decide who was Governor and there
the case should have rested. 
	The present season has witnessed an epi-
demic in strikes, unlike anything the coun-
try has seen for years. 	Chicago gets her
share of strikes especially among the
machinists. 	A short time ago three thou-
sand machinists were out in Chicago, and
two thousand more in Cleveland and Colum-
bus, Ohio.
	The unrest in the trade threatened the
suspension of work among the Union
machinists all over the country. In Chicago
the violence which the strikers have resorted
to has not been beyond the power of the
officials to control. In New York the
militia have been called upon to preserve
order.
	Another strike a few days ago, in St.
Louis produced blood shed and death.	A
street car strike in Kansas City is also re-
corded. The car strikes are disastrous to
people living miles out of town, and who
are obliged to depend on car service, especi-
ally working people who are liable to lose
positions if not in time for work.
	Japanese emigration continues to excite
the laboring men in this country, and no
wonder. Hundreds of the Orientals are
coming in on every ship, some to take the
place of section hands on railroads and
others to work in factories.	It is reported
that the Japanese are leaving their country
by thousands because of the danger of a
conflict between Japan and Russia. It is
estimated that ten thousand Japs landed on
the Pacific coast last month.  They dis-
embarked in British Columbia and made
their way across the border to get employ.
ment when and where they might.
	The Bubonic plague seems to be a serious
matter. The Chinese are in mortal terror
of innoculation. They gather in mobs and
the Federal authorities are obliged to take a
hand in the disturbances.	The Chinese
highbinders have threatened to assassinate
any Chinese who submit to innoculation
against the plague. There are twenty-three
thousand Chinese in the Chinese quarters
in San Francisco, and they are terrorized at
the prospect of vacination. With the
“Haffkine Brophylactic” most of the
Chinese were at first willing to submit to
the innoculation, until the  highbinders
issued the ultimatum that the whites wanted
to kill off the Chinese and took this method
of doing so.	The plague is a high fever,
indisposition one day, collapse the next and
the following day death. There seems to
be no medical treatment for it but the serum
which is injected into the blood, and in that
way destroys the food of the bacilli and the
fever is abated and recovery assured.	Rats
are a ready victim to the disease and die
in numbers, they are the most dangerous
means of carrying the infection. In the
last dispatches from San Francisco the
board of health had quarantined China-
town, and all that section of the city is sur

(Column 3)
rounded by police who refuse to let any one
pass in or out. The quarantine also in-
cludes street cars, which are not allowed to
pass through the district.
	A session that we have been much inter-
ested in this month is the Mothers’ Con-
gress. The papers and oral arguments
gave subjects for consideration.	An inter-
change of thoughts and ideas is good for us
all.	After the reception of Professor Cris-
mon,s paper at the Mothers’ Congress at
Des Moines, Iowa, I am inclined to think
that the gentleman will not be so free to
offer his valuable information.
	The resolution that was passed at our
Congress to prevent young girls from enter-
ing wine rooms and the sale of cigarettes to
minors, deserves the thanks of every mother
and father in Utah. We have laws here
against these very things and every one
should pay the penalty for disregarding
these laws. If the City Council pays no at-
tention to the appeal of the mothers, then
it is time for them to take a hand in the
municipal affairs of our fair city.
	Last, but not least, in our current events
of this month, is Decoration Day.	This
day is for a tribute of love and honor to
the nation’s dead.	No other government
has a day like this, others have achieved
their independence, at the cost of blood,
but they have never thought of setting
apart a day for the decoration of the graves
of the dead soldiers.
	In Utah and in other states new graves
have been made in the last two years. The
brave lads who heard the call for soldiers
sprang to arms in response. Some of these
were boys who but a little while ago were
in our public schools, and when they re-
turned to us were hidden away in their final
homes and were given back dust to dust.
Many a mound which covered the crumb-
ling dust of heroes was decorated yesterday
with flowers and wreaths, symbols of a sor-
row with which we would not part; tributes
of a love that lives while memory lasts.
				LUELLA RHODES.


6          WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
SARAH WILLIAMS DAW.
It is with feelings of sorrow that we record the
death of Sister Sarah Daw, wife of Isaac Daw,
and daughter of George and Mary Williams, who
peacefully passed away at her home in Cedar
Fort, Utah Co., Utah, April 11, 1900, of Bright’s
disease, aged sixty-six years and twenty days.
She embraced the Gospel in England and emi-
grated to Utah in the year 1856, crossing the plains
in Captain Millen Atwood’s handcart company.
Deceased was married to Isaac Daw the same
year that she arrived in Utah, they lived at West
Jordan for six years, then settled at Cedar Fort,
where she resided till the time of her death. She
was the mother of seven children, two sons and
five daughters and thirty-five grandchildren. Sis-
ter Daw held the office of director and teacher in
the Cedar Valley ward Relief Society at the time
of her death. 							to
We her colaborers deem it a pleasant duty
testify to her faithfulness in the Relief Society.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas, God has seen fit to take unto Himsel
our beloved director and teacher, Sister Sarah W.
Daw,
Resolved, That we mourn in her death the loss
of a faithful worker, a comforter in the hour of
trouble, devoted wife and mother and a true
Latter-day Saint.
Resolved, That we esteem her faithful labors
worthy the emulation of every member of our
society.
Resolved, That we sympathize and mourn with
the aged and bereaved husband, and the children,
grandchildren and friends.
Resolved, That we send a copy of these reso-


[Column 1]
lutions to the WOMAN’s EXPONENT for publication,
a copy be placed on the record of the Relief Soci-
ety and one be sent to the bereaved family.
Good bye, Sister Daw, we miss thy face,
Thy loving smile and gentle grace;
Gone to the Father on that happy shore,
Where pain and sorrow thou will share no more,
ELIZABETH BERRY, President.
MELISSA A. WEEKS, Vice-President.
FANNIE N. BERRY, Secretary.
MARGARET BENNETT, Treasurer.
ELLIS PETERSON LUTHAN.
Died at her home in Haden, Idaho, April 14,
1900, of pneumonia, Sister Ellis Peterson Luthan.
Deceased was born December 2, 1840. She emi-
grated to Utah in 1853 and has ever been a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint. She was a loving wife and
mother and leaves a husband and eight children
and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
Sister Luthan was first counselor to the president
of the Relief Society (Martha Little) in the Haden
ward, having occupied that position from the time
of the organization, now five years. She always
gave good counsel and donated liberally, was
faithful in all her duties. She was filled with the
spirit of the Lord when testifying of His goodness
and power, and always urged the sisters to love
each other and be faithful to their duties. She had
no fear of death and said it would be joy to meet
her mother and those who had gone before; and yet
she felt she would like to live for the sake of her
family. By her request the sisters fasted and
prayed, but it seemed that her time had come and
her spirit took its flight in peace and joy. She
passed away like a babe falling asleep, she had
been ill just six days.
The whole community mourn her loss, for she
truly was a mother in Israel to all who needed her
loving care, visiting the sick, ministering to the
poor, comforting the afflicted and cheering all who
came within her presence. She was of a most
amiable disposition and by her smiles and cheer-
fulness would dispel all the gloom around her.
The funeral was largely attended, the Society
house was crowded to overflowing, and a long
procession of seventy conveyances followed the re- 
mains to the grave and the greatest respect was
shown to the family.
MARTHA LITTLE, President.
MAY SMITH, Secretary.
MARY SMITH ANDERSON.
Sister Mary S. Anderson, of Rexburg, Idaho,
departed this life May 8, 1900, at twenty 
minutes past one and the funeral was held on the
the 10th at one o’clock p. m. Deceased was great-
ly beloved and many sad and aching hearts are
left to mourn her loss here upon the earth.
Sister Anderson was born February 23, 1841, in
Dundee, Scotland. She embraced the Gospel at
an early age and left her home in Dundee in com-
pany with her mother. her brothers and three sis-
ters, April 30, 1856.
They sailed from Liverpool, England, in the
ship Thornton, May 4 of the same year, arrived in
New York May 14, continuing their journey by
railway and steamboat, arriving at Iowa City,
June 26, and started to cross the plains in the
fourth handcart company, July 15th, Captain J.
G. Willey. Millen Atwood, was Captain of the
hundred in which they traveled to Salt Lake City;
they had a very tedious journey across the plains.
Miss Smith was married to Andrew A. Ander-
son, July, 1857, and lived in Lehi until 1860, when
with her husband and one child she moved to
Smithfield, Cache Co., where she lived until the
fall of 1884, when she with her husband and fam-
ly moved to Rexburg, Idaho. She filled the office
of first counselor to the president of the Relief
Society of Fremont Stake, and she traveled around
the Stake, giving good counsel to elevate the sis-
ters up to a high standard of love and good works,
and many sought her counsel and it was said of
her at her funeral that she was not only a mother
to the whole town and Stake, and that no other
woman in the county would have been missed
more or was loved more, gems of precious thought
were always coming from her lips. Her death
cast a gloom over all, she made the weary take up
their burdens and praise God for his wonderful
love and care for His people. She has left a hus-
band and seven children, three sons and four
daughters to mourn her loss; three sons and one
daughter preceded her behind the vail. One of
her sons, A. S. Anderson, was a member of the
State Convention that drafted the Constitution, and
she was also the mother of J. A. Anderson of the
Utah Volunteers, who made his name honored by
his nobility of character portrayed while in
Manilla.

[Column 2]
Sister Anderson did considerable work in the
Manti Temple for her dead relatives and also
officiated for them two or three months in the
Temple at Logan,
In all the trials through which she was called to
pass she was never heard to murmur or complain,
but al[-]ays had a word to strengthen others in
their faith and encourage them to press onward
and upward. The writer has often heard her
speak in our General Conference of the Relief
Society and in officers’ meetings, and felt to sym-
pathize with the bereaved who so sadly miss her
in the places she occupied. May the Lord abund-
antly bless them that they may emulate her wise
example and carry out the precepts she taught
them. that they may meet her hereafter never
again to be separated nor to know the grief of
parting.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas, In the dispensation of providence
God has seen fit to call home one of His daughters
who labored long and well as first counselor to
the Stake president of the Relief Society of the
Fremont Stake, and who also traveled many hun-
dred miles visiting the different branches of the
society in sunshine and showers when Fremont was
united with Bannock Stake; and
Whereas, She has proved herself an efficient
worker in all her various duties, and was one
whose kindness and generosity of spirit brought
sunshine to many hearts, visiting the sick and
afflicted and helping the needy in time of want;
and we can truly say she was a peacemaker and an
administering angel, her memory will ever live
with her many friends, as her bright gems of
thought have been scattered broadcast to live in
the hearts of men,
Resolved, That we her sisters, united with her
in the presidency of the Fremont Stake of the
Relief Society, do deeply feel her loss in connec-
tion with her earnest efforts and wise counsel, as
to know her was to love her, as we know she was
one of God’s choicest spirits; nevertheless in this
our loss we feel to bow to the mandates of an Al-
wise Creator who doeth all things well.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent
to her family. a copy be placed on the Stake
record, also one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
TEMPERANCE HINCKLEY, President,
SARAH A. BARNES, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.                         7


THE MOTHERS' CONGRESS.
	The Third annual session of the Mothers’
Congress convened in the Assembly Hall at
10 o’clock a. m., May 18. Those present
were bright, representative women
	The speakers’ stand was beautifully dec-
orated with flowering plants and jardinieres
filled with snowballs, making a bright
picture.
	The meeting in the morning opened with
prayer by Mrs. M. Isabella Horne and fol-
lowing this the president, Mrs Nellie Little,
read a note from Mrs. Antoinette Kinney,
tendering her resignation as recording
secretary of the Congress. The resignation
being accepted, Mrs. Augusta Grant nomi-
nated Mrs. Ella Stewart, who was elected
to fill the vacancy.
	President Nellie Little then read an ad-
dress: ‘‘The Utah Mothers’ Congress has
met this morning to hold its third annual
meeting, since its organization a little more
than two years ago, a gradual interest in the
work has been awakened.
	“At the previous annual meetings held
in ’98 and ’99, the promoters of the
good cause in Utah were fortunate in se-
curing as speakers eminent women from the
East. They, with our citizens men and
women, talked on subjects relating to the
nature, the home and the parent of the
child. At this present annual meeting the
subjects will be treated by residents of
Utah, and with the past two years’ exper-
ience as a guide we feel confident that the
Congress now in session will be a success.
	“The scope embraced by the Mothers’
club is a wide one; unlimited, unrestricted.
While some organizations of women are
established solely for literary, social or
philanthropic purposes, mothers’ clubs may
properly consider any subject pertaining to
the condition of the human family.
	“Where the surroundings of children are
undesirable and create immoral tendencies
the co-operation of the mothers in changing
the condition is very effectual. The true
mother will consider the welfare, not only
of her own child alone, but will be inter-
ested in improving the condition of all chil-
dren in her locality. The woman who
takes into her heart her own children may
be a very ordinary woman, says the novel-
ist, but she who takes into her heart the
children of others, is one of God’s mothers.
The mother, too, receives her immediate
reward in helping to improve the condition
of the youth in her community, for what-
ever elevates the moral standard of children
collectively will elevate the standard of the
individual child.
	“Here in the west she has greater power
than her sister in the east. She can vote
for men to go into office who will make just
laws, laws which favor the many and not
the few, and influence and modify legisla-
tion to the good of the community.
	“Woman’s influence on the child, on the
home and on society, is recognized and
truly appreciated by our fathers, brothers
and husbands. A minister well known in
 our city has been quoted thus: ‘A child
may get along with an inferior kind of a
father, but God pity him if he has a poor
excuse for a mother.’ It is these poor ex-
cuses of mothers that the Mothers’ Club
should endeavor to aid. They are not al-
ways poor excuses intentionally, but through
ignorance, through lack of education. They
received no training, no teaching in their
youth for the responsible position of parent-
[-]ood, in consequence of which they have
no system, no standard to guide them in
the training of their own children.
	“The work of mothers’ clubs is devoted
to the good and elevation of others. Very
seldom is self-culture the primary object.
Necessarily the mothers are benefited by
their associating together, but their first
thought is to bestow a benefit on others,
their aim is wholly altruistic. If, as is
claimed, all the great evils of life have their
root in selfishness, mothers’ clubs with an
altruistic motive must accomplish results
just the reverse of evil. We do not expect
to revolutionize the existing order of things
but we can aid our fathers, brothers and
husbands in promoting a better condition
of society. If we do this, our efforts will
be rewarded "
	Mrs. Anderson led in the hymn, “Nearer
my God.to Thee.”

	MRS. DUSENBURRY’S PAPER.

	The time has arrived when co-operation
is fast taking the place of in[-]ividual labor,
that is, labor where one man or woman
makes an effort to carry on successfully a
number of occupations alone. For many
years the male portion of our population
have seen the necessity of specializing their
part of the labor; but the mother is still
toiling and wondering why she cannot be a
success at child raising, cooking, washing,
ironing, sewing, sweeping, dusting, calling
and entertaining. She little realizes that
any one of these occupations would furnish
sufficient employment if done in a profes-
sional way, by one person. She does not
stop to think that the world means many
people and she is wearing her life out for


but the few who are especially near and dear
to her. She endeavors for a few moments
each day to teach her child something of
the life of Christ, never realizing that the
little one can have no conception of the
Savior unless he has present living exam- 
ples upon which to buil[-] his ideals. She
tells him Christ spent His life toiling for
His fellowmen. She relates to him stories
of the never-tiring labor of Jesus for the
rich and poor alike. She pictures to the
little mind the beauties of such a life, yet
day by day, year by year, passes and she
toils on; for the few who surround her
hearthstone. It is said, “to work for one’s
self is the lowest kind of labor. To work
for one’s family is but one step better.”
Then there is but one kind of service that
will answer the present needs of the human
family and that is service for all the world.
How are the mothers and women to assist
in this struggle for a broader field of action
if they are not awakened to the necessity of
co-operation ?
	The world today is much exercised over
the child-study question, but comparatively
little is written or said about mother-study.
Fewer punishments and less scoldings
would take place if we stopped to think
that the fault for which we are punishing is
only a reflection of that same trait in our-
selves.
	If the parent would begin with reforma-
tion of self, the desire for self-improvement
would grow greater, while the unnatural
warping of child character would grow less.
What we want is mothers not alone in a
physical sense, for this attribute we hold in
common with the lower animals—but in-
tellectual, broad-minded, spiritual, social
mothers—mothers who are willing to meet
bravely the world, and battle with its diffi-
culties; mothers whose names will even
stand with honor in the lives of their poster-
ity. These are the kind of women we must
have, but the kind we will never get until
the women of the century are fully awaken-
ed to the importance of organization and
co-operation.
	We must have broader-minded mothers
and there is no better way to develop them
than through interest shown in their little
ones. Just let the mother feel that you are
unselfishly laboring for her children and
she will give you her hearty co-operation.
This is the only successful way of obtain-
ing the support and assistance of the greater
number of our mothers today, I have found
it to be the only thing that will make
mothers’ clubs successful organizations. It
has been the custom for years for mothers
to remain home days, weeks, yes, years,
ceaselessly laboring at everything, for the
benefit of her loved ones; she has never
stopped to think “that love grows by being
spent,” and she is never requiring her little
ones to labor for her. Her love each day may
grow brighter and stronger for them while
they are seeking other things to love. We
must, as mothers, mingle with the world;
for it is the only way to develop that love
for humanity which is character building.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N.Y.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.,
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give 
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US.

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	6 40 p.m.
				Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	3 00 p.m.
No  3	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
						H. M. CLAY,  General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own 
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

	The Most Convenient Local Train Service
	in the State is given by the . . . . . .
		OREGON SHORT LINE
			RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
	Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
		“SHORT LINE”
				And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,		D E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.			G. P. & T. A.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE leading social event of the Mothers
Congress, which recently convened in De
Moines May 21, was the reception given
by the Governor and Mrs. Shaw in the
Governor’s apartments in the Capital.

MISS JANE ADDAMS, of Hull House,
Chicago, sailed for Paris last week. She 
has been appointed a member of the Jury of
Awards for the Paris Exposition. She will
serve also on a Committee on Exhibits in
Social Economics.

	MISS ANTHONY, after rendering good ser-
vice at the Annual meeting and festival of
the New England W. S. A., was abducted
by the Rev Anna H. Shaw and Miss Lucy
E. Anthony and carried off by them to rest
at their cottage on Cape Cod, which Miss
Anthony had never seen.

	“MR. DOOLEY” has now been discoursing
on the relation of marriage to politics. He
takes the ground that “a man in pollytics
has got to be marrid,” aud that an un-
marrid man don’t get along in pollytics be-
cause he don’t need th’ money.” Mr.
Dooley tells Mr. Hennessy that “ye’ll find
all th’ big jobs held be marrid men, and all
th’ temp’ry clerkships be bachelors.”

	MISS KATHERINE REED, daughter of
ex-Speaker Reed, was among the forty-
eight young women who took degrees in the
Women’s Law Class of New York Univer
sity last week. Mrs. John P. Munn, Presi-
dent of the Woman’s Legal Education
Society, presided and announced that the
$25,000 needed to endow the chair of the
lecturer to the Woman's Law Class had
been raised in full.

MRS. MARY HARRISON MCKEE, daugh-
ter of expresident Harrison, is one of the
active working commissioners to the Paris
Exposition from New York State. It was
only after a special act of the Legislature,
in which the commission was created, that
Mrs. McKee, Mrs. Clarence Burns and Mrs.
N. Metcalf received their appointments.
They have an equal vote with the men on
all matters, and do active work in the
selection of exhibits. Mrs. McKee has
proved her helpfulness to the commission
by advancing many practical ideas.

SUSAN B. ANTHONY will lecture at
Chautauqua this summer. Shades of the
past, what has happened to Bishop Vin-
cent? All roads lead to Rome with Susan,
and no matter what her subject may be,
you will discover that it bears a vital and
thrilling relation to woman suffrage
Wherein Susan is wise.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 29. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, & JULY 1, 1900. Nos. 2 & 3.


CONTENTS. 
Daughter of the Revolution . . . . . . . . J. F. Lund	9
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . . . M. Y. Taylor	10
In Memoriam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. B. W.	11
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Martha Beck	11
The Mothers’ Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	14
R. S. Reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	15
A Woman Missionary . . . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	16
EDITORIAL—June Nineteen Hundred . . . . . .	12
A Quiet Wedding in June . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	13
A Rare June Wedding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	13
Miss American’s Visit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	13
Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	14
POETRY—Our Scandinavian Women . . Alofa	9
What is so Rare as a Day in June . . . . . L. M. H.	11
Musings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ellis R. Shipp	11


[Column 1]
OUR SCANDINAVIAN WOMEN.
A TYPE. 
I sat in father's cosy room one day, 
Perusing dreamily a favorite book,
Engrossed in Hamlet Prince of Denmark's dreams 
And wondering how Prince Hamlet used to look,
An upward glance dispelled my bookish thoughts, 
Awoke the real in my wakeful dream, 
Revealed a life which I had never known, 
A life which I so truly noble deem, 
I fain would make my life what that doth seem.
My grandma's picture hung upon the wall,
And as I looked upon the kindly face 
With lips compressed, yet wreathed 
In smiles which time and age could not efface, 
I lost myself and woke on Denmark's Isle-
And see! in middle age and passing fair, 
Calling her little sons about her knee,
To teach them honesty, love, faith and prayer, 
A woman struggling with her load of care.
And lo! a weary traveler stops to rest.
She bids him welcome, shares her frugal meal—
“One of the least of these my little ones," 
Her lips repeat, and blessed does she feel.
She hears his message, life and light divine, 
Calmly and peacefully it floods her soul; 
Her heart rejoices in the light and life 
Which shall endure while endless ages roll:
She recognizes truth, loves and accepts the whole.
A struggle follows: he who has vowed 
To love and cherish her while life shall last, 
Though he believes cannot endure the scorn 
That comes to those 'mong whom her lot is cast, 
He hears but answers not the Shepherd's call; 
He sees but follows not the heavenly light; 
He fears but does not shun the demon dark
That drags him onward in its tireless flight, 
To hurl him down to dreary, awful night. 
And so she stands alone, with only God. 
Her chosen, neverfailing, powerful friend; 
And now leaves husband, home, her native land, 
All things on which a woman’s joys depend—
And guided by the beacon light of faith, 
Goes forth in search of Zion's holy hill,
Leading her youthful sons from vice and sin,
To the pure fountain of her Father's will-
Praying and weeping-Praying and trusting still.
I cannot trace her o'er the trackless plain-
My eyes anon fill up with scalding tears-
A hopeful pilgrim in a pilgrim band, 
Footsore, aweary, prey to constant fears 
From savage hordes; or fainting by the way, 
From nightly vigil o'er some sufferer kept: 
Who ere the morn by plague is snatched away, 
His requiem sung, hot tears of anguish wept, 
E'en though at eve so peacefully he slept.
What wonder that her woman frame gave way?
What wonder that her spirit took its flight? 
And yet she lived to see this blessed land,
Saw darkness bursting into glorious light: 
Saw friends, saw home, the city of the Saints--

[Column 2]
Saw and rejoiced, rejoiced and was content-
Nor deemed the sacrifice she made too great 
For this one blissful hour by heaven sent, 
In which the fulness of her soul was spent. 
HEROINES.
So I move from my father's study, 
Where grandma's picture is hung, 
And I think of the hundreds of women 
That I live and move among-
Women who, just like grandma, 
Have breasted the stormy wave, 
Women with souls as noble, 
Women with hearts as brave. 
And I see their trials and hardships,
Their doubts and sickening fears, 
Their struggles and privations, 
Their heart-aches and their tears;
And I see them enter a valley,
That is desolate, bleak and bare, 
And gladly accept the burden 
Which it is their lot to share.
And whether with loved companions 
They greet the barren soil; 
Or whether for son or brother, 
They harden their hands by toil, 
They are earnest, sober, truthful, 
With a constant great delight 
In the overthrow of Error, 
And the victory of right.
So with men of might and valor, 
Hand in hand these women go, 
Toiling on 'mid heat and hunger, 
Or 'mid winter's drift of snow; 
So heart and soul with their brothers, 
They battle 'gainst every sin, 
With a struggle that defies submission,
With a vigor that's bound to win.
TRIUMPHS.
A lapse of a few brief seasons now, 
And I look again at the lonely vale; 
The changes made by the faithful plow, 
Would read, methinks, like a fairy tale; 
But those women are there and are still the same, 
Though not renowned or known to fame,
And still they come from those northern climes,
And are welcomed still to our blessed land 
In the mountain-tops, where in ancient times, 
God's prophets saw the faithful stand.
And the vale is filled with happy homes, 
With meadows, orchards and growing wheat, 
With chapels where, when the Sabbath comes, 
These honest people for worship meet,
And praise their Maker in prayer and song,
And approve what's right and condemn what's 
wrong, 
And always these noble sisters live, 
By the light of the Savior's plan,
And ever their hearts and souls will give 
For the betterment of man. 
Thank heaven for all these sturdy ones,
These men of toil, these women true,
Who, working on through storms and suns,
Found naught too hard for their hands to do,
And whether on earth or whether above,
We open the records of life and love,
By the side of the names of our Danish sires.
Whose hearts grew warm in the Gospel light 
Will our mothers be, for those living fires 
Have kept them as truly bright.
ALOFA.


[Column 1]
	DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION. 
                                               
                     (Concluded.)

	Liberty Bell, which bears the inscription:
“Proclaim Liberty throughout the land to
all the inhabitants thereof.”   And as I
stood by the old bell the words of the dear
old poem came back to my mind:

[Column 2]
	    That old state-house bell is silent,
		Hushed is now its iron tongue,
	    But the spirit it awakened,
		Still is living, ever young.
	    And while we greet the smiling sunlight.
		On the Fourth of each July,
	    We will not forget the bell, 
		Which twixt heaven and earth,
	     Rang out loudly, Independence!
		Which, please God, shall never die !”

	The next place visited was the Betsy
Ross House, the birthplace of “Old
Glory.”   From here we went to Christ’s
Church, a most historic spot; for many
prominent people—among them General
Washington, Franklin and the Penn family
—used to worship here.    The Continental
Congress appointed July 20, 1775, as a day
for prayer and fasting, and as a body at-
tended this church, and after Independence
bell ceased ringing on July 4, 1776, the
chimes of this church caught up the strain
and rang out the message anew.
	The last place visited on Tuesday morn-
ing was old St. Peter’s Church, where
Washington used to attend service. There
are many old interesting inscriptions and
tablets, one of the most important of which
is erected by the Pennsylvania Sons of the
Revolution, in honor of Captain William
Shippen, who was killed at the battle of
Princetown January 3, 1777.
	On Tuesday afternoon a most elaborate
breakfast was given the retiring delegates
by the General Society D. R. I will again
refer you to Miss Sterling and Miss Snow for
a very complete account of that delightful
event, for they have both told it so well.
	Wednesday, April 26, we went to Valley
Forge, and I am sure it was a day never to
be forgotten by any of us. We were met at
the Valley Forge R. R. Station by large
coaches in which we were driven all over
the historic spots.    Captain I. Heston
Todd, who owns the greater part of Valley
Forge, led the party and pointed out and
explained the points of interest. We know
that the American army went into camp at
this place on the 19th of December, 1777.
and remained there until June 19, 1778.
This is an excellent place for an encamp-
ment, as the natural features of the country
would enable the entrenchments to be made
very strong. The Schuylkill river bounds
it on one side, Valley Creek—a large
stream—on the other. These two streams
really take such a course as to encircle
Valley Forge on three sides, the other side
is protected by the earth works, planned by
one of Lafayette’s aid de camps. Modern
engineers are puzzled by some of the fea-
tures in these earth works. General
Washington’s headquarters are at the point
where the Schuylkill and Valley creek flow
nearest together.  Fort Washington is
directly opposite the Schuylkill, and the
headquarters of Lafayette and General
Knox were at the end nearest Valley creek,
while those of General Wayne were at the
other extremity of the Fort. Fort Hunt-
ingdon is almost directly opposite Wash-
ington’s and Wayne's headquarters, so that
the four headquarters really represent the
four extremities of the army encampment.
	Nothing remains of the Forts except the


[Column 1]
earth works, and the point that would have
been most accessible to an attacking force
was Fort Washington; so that the earth-
works are higher and steeper than at any
other place. The first name of this historic
spot was Mount Job, but there was, I think,
in 1757 a forge built on Valley creek, and
f[-]om that the place came to be known as
Valley Forge, where the raw recruits from
thirteen colonies were so ably drilled by
Baron Van Steuben, that they were able to
defeat the best English soldiers. We are
all familiar with the account of the suffer-
ings of our soldiers during that “terrible
winter” at Valley Forge, but Captain Todd
told me that the mortality among the
soldiers from the south was much greater
than among the northern soldiers, because
in building their huts they would not dig
deep enough into the earth, and were,
therefore, not protected against the cold.
Though the ground was covered by
graves at one time the only one that is now
marked is that of Captain John Waterman.
He is buried on a part of Captain Todd’s
property, and the Captain offered to give to
the Daughters of the Revolution that spot 
of ground, on condition that they would
erect a monument in honor of the brave
dead. The offer was accepted and the
monument will be erected.
The only buildings of Revolutionary fame
remaining are General Washington’s head-
quarters and the old camp schoolhouse. We
had lunch at a modern hotel called “The
Washington Inn.” The headquarters
house is in charge of the Centennial
and Memorial Association of Valley Forge.
This society is composed of ladies and
gentlemen. The present Regent is a lady,
Mrs. Anna M. Holstein, of Bridgeport.
The following statement is made of the
Headquarters House: “From cellar to
attic it is in good preservation, and appears
today precisely as it did when Washington
was domiciled within it. The doors, with
bells and locks, are the very same his
hands have moved; the floors, except a por-
tion of the one in the office room, are those
over which the Great Chieftain has walked
in many a weary hour; the window glass
and sash are unchanged since the days
when anxious eyes looked through them at
the soldiers’ huts upon the hills.”
In speaking of Valley Forge Thackeray
tells how easy it would have been for Howe
with his great army in Philadelphia to have
utterly defeated the American forces and
put a period to the Revolution at this time,
he says. “But it was ordained by heaven,
and for the good, as we can now have no
doubt, of both empires, that the great
Western Republic should separate from us;
and the gallant soldiers who fought on her
side, their indomitable chief above all, had
the glory of facing and overcoming, not
only veterans amply provided and inured
to war, but wretchedness, cold, hunger,
dissensions and treason in their own camp,
where all must have gone to rack but for
the pure, unquenchable flame of patriotism
that was forever burning in the bosom of
the heroic leader. What a constancy!
What a magnaminity! What a surprising
persistency against fortune! Washington
before the enemy was no better nor braver
than hundreds who fought with him or
against him; but Washington, the chief of
a nation in arms, doing battle with distracted
parties: calm in the midst of conspiracy;
serene against the open foe before him and
the darker enemies at his back; Washington
inspiring order and spirit into troops hun-

[Column 2]
gry and in rags; stung by ingratitude yet
ever ready to forgive; in defeat invincible,
magnaminous in conquest and never so
sublime as on the day when he laid down
his victorious sword and sought his noble
retirement. Here indeed is a character to
admire and revere, a fame without a flaw.”
On Wednesday evening the Pennsylvania
Society D. R. gave their delightful recep-
tion. A number of Colonial pictures were
shown, illustrating a lecture. The speaker
gave us a part of Paul Revere, but I did
not like his rendition of it nearly as well as
I did that of our Vice-Regent, Mrs. Wil-
liams.
Thursday morning we went to German-
town, saw the house where Gibbul-Stewart
painted the pictures of George and Martha
Washington, also Robert Morris’s house,
that Howe used as his headquarters while
in Philadelphia. We also visited most of
the scenes spoken of in Hugh Wynne, but
the principal places of interest were the
Germantown Academy, a boys’ school
founded by Franklin, and frequently visited
by Washington and the Chew House. This
house is still owned by the Chew family,
one of the wealthiest and most exclusive in
Philadelphia, and is not open to the public,
but as a special courtesy to the D. R., Mrs.
Chew threw her house open for their in-
spection. Chief Justice Chew was a great
friend of Washington’s, but on the morning
of October 4, 1777, some English soldiers
entrenched themselves in the house and the
battle of Germantown occurred right on
this spot. Mrs. Chew was so charming
and gave us a full history of the event.
The D. R’s. were officially represented
in the services of the unveiling of the Grant
monument on April 27, 1899, and our
President-General placed a laurel wreath
tied with the D. R. colors.on the monument.
On Thursday afternoon we visited the
University of Pennsylvania and were shown
about by Mr. Penniman, Dean of the Col-
lege department.
All of Friday was consumed in the drive
through Fairmount park. This ended the
week’s excursions, and Miss Sterling said
she considered it the cream of the enjoyable
events. We visited the Penn House, the
first brick house built in Philadelphia. It
was built by William Penn in 1682; also the
Belmont Mansion. The home of Judge
Richard Peters stands on George’s hill and
overlooks the city of Philadelphia. Wash-
ington used to ride out early in the morn-
ing alone. Other guests were Jefferson,
Adams, Morris, General Steuben, Louis
Phillipi and Franklin. Mount Pleasant,
Benedict Arnold’s home, later Baron Steu-
ben’s, was the last spot visited on the
drive.
JULIA A. FARNSWORTH LUND.


10		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held on Saturday, May 12, 1900, in the
Fourteenth Ward Hall, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Opened by singing,
“God moves in a mysterious way.’’ Prayer
by Sister Clara C. Cannon. Singing “Let
us pray, gladly pray.’’ Minutes read and
approved.
	President Horne said it seems necessary
that we assemble ourselves together often
and be stirred up in the principles of the
Gospel. Spoke of the calamity of the
Scofield explosion that had recently hap-
pened, causing so much death and sorrow

[Column 2]
among us, and that she would like to give
every woman in Salt Lake Stake a chance
to contribute to their relief.
	A sister from the Eleventh Ward spoke
of the terrible calamity, said their society
had made a collection for the widows and
orphans.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and related her experiences in the
missionary field in Holland. Another sis-
ter bore a testimony of the truth and told of
her interest in Temple work.
	The congregation sang “Redeemer of
Israel.’’
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said the spirit
we partake of here refreshes us in body and
in mind, begged all to be humble and meek
and true to their obligations and never
speak evil especially of the priesthood.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the wonder-
ful history of the building we are now in,
and of the spirit of God that people had been
endowed with who had spoken here. She
thought we ought to keep good records in
our Relief Society, felt that the history of
our work should be written and kept. Spoke
of the difficulty that the Young Ladies’
Society was having in trying to collect the
early history of their organization. Re-
ferred to her recent trip to New York and
how she enjoyed meeting with the brothers
and sisters there. Testified that the Lord
had always preserved her from accident in
her travels. Miss M. Snow and herself
were well received by the women of the
Daughters of the Revolution. Told us she
was preparing a complete file of the EX-
PONENT for the Paris Exposition; that it
was the oldest woman’s paper in the West.
She had often heard it said theEXPONENTwas
a good missionary, and a number of our
missionaries had told her it was. Thanked
the Lord for the organization of the Relief
Society. When the Prophet Joseph turned
the key for women in 1842, he organized
the first society of women in the world, not
till that time were women organized and
the women of the world were adopting
many of our plans of organization in their
societies. She believed our influence was
being felt for good among the women of
the world. Spoke of their good work, she
felt the Relief Society was the high school
of the womens organizations. Said she felt
it was proper that the Salt Lake Stake
Relief Society should give fifty dollars to
the Scofield sufferers.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the influence of
the EXPONENT and the good she believed it
would do in the world, and spoke of thejndg-
ments that would begin in the house of the
Lord.
	Sister Langton said she desired to live to
do good and be filled with charity.
	A sister in the congregation bore a testi-
mony of the truth.
	President Horne said she thought the
price of the EXPONENT was within the
reach of all, and thought we ought to
support it.
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, “The
God we adore.’’ Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
		M. Y. TAYLOR, Act. Sec.


MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL has edited
and now publishes the report of the third
triennial meeting of the National Council of
Women held last year in Washington, D.
C. It is a volume of more than three hun-
dred pages, containing stenographic report
of all the meetings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


‘WHAT IS SO RARE AS A DAY IN JUNE."
To Mrs. Pallas Eliza Clark.
BY L. M. H.
Fond greetings and congratulations,
Sister, beloved, my own!
On this anniversary,
That counts thee eighty-one.
This day of bright, glad summer,
Radiant, “Merrie June,”
Arrayed in pristine beauty,
Laden with sweet perfume.
On mountain, hill and valley,
Queen June is holding sway,
All nature’s forces rally,
In gorgeous array,
Grand musicales are given,
In melody of song, 
That echoes are repeating,
And joyously prolong. 
Hearts now are thrilled with music,
Wakened anew to praise. 
The magical enchantment,
Of glorious June days,
Out from her groves and bowers,
With offerings we have come,
Of fairest, sweetest flowers,
To crown thee eighty-one! 
We wreathe thy brow with garlands, 
Perennial in bloom,
Fadeless flowers from gardens,
Of love’s eternal June.
Time lead thee kindly onward,
Through twilight’s eventide, 
Into a perfect morning,
Of love-light glorified.


MUSINGS.
I stood in the Valley of Mesa, 
	Neath palm and clustering vine,
Then gazed on the beauties of nature,
	My thought most near the Divine; 
With orange groves breathing their fragrance
	Roses exhaling their sweets
The chirping of birds in the distance,
	Making earth’s gladness complete.

My being was thrilled with the splendor,
	My soul enrapt with an awe,
Earthly joys I seemed to surrender,
	To Heaven’s superior law;
And e’en while I lingered in musing,
	A glorious mantle was spread,
O’er the world, a halo diffusing,
	As promise to those long since dead.

That glow that comes after sunset,
	Ere shades of night shroud the earth;
Those pale purple mists, soft and mellow,
	Assure new day and new birth.
Our hearts keep time in perfection,
	In rhythm to nature’s sweet song,
We dwell on the great Resurrection-
	Ask why this struggle prolong ?
	ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1] 
IN MEMORIAM.
MARY ANN PRICE HYDE. 
"The journey is over, the fight is fought, 
She has reached the home of her love, 
And the smile on her beautiful face is caught, 
From the land of smiles above." 
"After the burden and heat of the day, 
The starry calm of night, 
After the rough and toilsome way, 
A sleep in the robe of white." 
"The silent chamber faceth the East,
Faceth the dawn of day,
And the shining feet of our great High Priest, 
Shall break through the shadows grey." 
From time to time we are called upon to 
chronicle the demise of one after another of 
the veteran sisters and mothers in Israel, 
whose lives have been shining examples 
among the Latter-day Saints. Many of 
those women who helped to build the 
foundations of the Church have gone to a 
higher sphere and those who remain of this 
shining galaxy of the sisterhood are fewer 
than those who have departed. 

[Column 2]
Sister Mary A. Hyde was one to be re-
membered among those who helped to 
establish plural marriage. The principle 
of this holy order of matrimony was taught 
her by the Prophet Joseph Smith himself,
and he performed the ceremony that united 
her to Apostle Orson Hyde in the city of 
Nauvoo, Illinois, in the year 1843. Sister 
Hyde honored the principle and was her-
self an honor to the family into which she 
was received at the time of her marriage 
and ever afterwards to the time of her de-
cease. She lived to a good old age, eighty-
four years the 5th of June, 1900. She de-
parted in peace at 6:30 on the morning of 
the 16th of June, 1900. She had suffered 
intensely from various causes for the last 
three weeks previous to that time, though 
her faith in the gift of healing and the ad-
ministration of the laying on of hands never 
wavered in the least, but she longed to go 
and be at rest, and meet with her husband 
and those she knew and loved while they 
tabernacled in the flesh.
Deceased was born at Lea, Gloucester-
shire, England, June 5, 1816, and had a 
very happy childhood in the bosom of a 
united and prosperous family. Her father 
was an honorable business man, and her 
mother educated, cultivated and refined.
Her maiden name was Price. Miss Price 
was educated at Broad Oaks Academy, a 
select school for girls, not far from her 
home in Gloucestershire. She was the first 
of her family to receive the Gospel as taught 
by the Elders of the Latter day Saints, and 
with a younger sister, Emma, a very 
beautiful girl, preceded the other members 
of the family to Nauvoo, arriving in 1841.
Her brother had sent a present to the 
Prophet Joseph Smith, which gave Miss 
Price an opportunity to introduce herself 
to the Smith family. She was greatly im-
pressed with the noble bearing and gentle 
manners of this great and good man, whom 
she afterwards met and became well ac-
acquainted with. 
The following year. 1842, when Apostle 
Orson Hyde was returning from his mis-
sion to Palestine the Price family, mother,
brothers and sisters traveled with him 
across the sea and to Nauvoo. 
When the Saints were driven from Nau-
voo, Sister Mary Ann Hyde was one among 
the exiles with the Hyde family. The 
hardships and privations were many and in 
Council Bluffs she was permaturely confined 
October 15, 1846. Her babe, a little girl, 
died on the 27th. This was her only
child.
Apostle Orson Hyde remained at the 
Bluffs called Kanesville until 1850, and 
was the editor of the first paper published 
in Iowa, called the Frontier Guardian. He 
remained there until 1850, when he crossed 
the plains to this valley with his family. 
In 1855 he was called to settle Carson,
then in Utah but now in Nevada, and Sister 
Mary Ann Hyde went and shared in his 
labors in colonizing the new country, and 
remained with him until he was called 
home. Afterwards, in the early hardships 
of frontier life in Sanpete Co., where 
Apostle Orson Hyde was called to preside 
over the Stake, Sister Mary Ann Hyde 
was his faithful amanuensis and companion 
in all his varied labors. 
In Spring City, where they resided, when 
the Relief Society was first organized in 
1868, Sister Hyde was chosen president and 
accepted the position until 1879, eleven 
years when she was appointed president of 
the Relief Society of Sanpete Stake, which

[Column 3]
position she occupied at the time of her 
death. She journeyed from settlement to
settlement visiting the several branch
societies, advising, counseling and stimulat-
ing to higher endeavor and nobler effort the
organizations. She had rare executive
ability, and was of a highly spiritual nature;
with the two combined she was eminently
qualified for the important labors of her
position.
Sister Hyde enjoyed her labors and mag-
nified her calling. The Saints in Sanpete
Stake will miss her presence among them
and will feel her loss deeply. She often
spoke in the gift of tongues and always
with good effect; scores of young people
have been strengthened in their faith thro’
her teachings in the exercise of this precious
gift, which she held sacred.
During her illness she was tenderly cared
for by the Hyde family, she resided with
one of the daughters generally when in the
city, to whom she was fondly attached, and
in that home her spirit took its flight to the
realms on high.
The funeral was held in the Second Ward
meeting house, Bishop Heber C. Iverson
conducting the services. The music was
excellent, hymns appropriate. The speakers
were Elder A. M. Musser, Apostle Anthon
Lund, Sister E. B. Wells, Dr. J. E.
Talmage and Elder Alonzo E. Hyde.
Brother Hyde paid a beautiful tribute to
her life and character in his remarks. Her
form reposed in a lovely white casket, and
her robes were white as snow, befitting the
purity of a life devoted to the work of
God upon the earth. There were many
beautiful floral offerings and a sheaf of
ripened grain. Two of Sister Hyde’s 
brothers attended the funeral, one from
Goshen and one from Nephi, also a nephew
and family from Mexico, and others of her
relatives.
The following day the remains were taken
to Spring City, where she had lived and
labored many years, and after suitable ser-
vices Sister Hyde’s body was laid to rest
beside her husband, there to await the morn
of the First Resurrection; though she is not
there, but has gone to join that innumer-
able company on the other shore, where
there is no more pain or sorrow forevermore.
E. B. W.


OBITUARY.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of our dear sister and counselor to the president of
the Relief Society, of Newton, Cache Co., Utah,
Sister Mary Christena Ingberg Christensen, who
died April 30, 1900. She was born in Denmark,
February 14, 1841.
	Sister Christensen embraced the Gospel in her
native land and emigrated to Utah in 1865. She
crossed the plains with ox teams and walked all
the way and forded the rivers from Omaha to Salt
Lake City. She was married to Elder James
Christensen and lived in Brigham City and later
moved to Newton, Cache Co., where she died. She
will meet her husband and three sons who pre-
ceded her. She leaves four sons and three grand-
children and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
	She was a kind and loving wife and mother, and 
died in full faith of the Gospel.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Death has come into our midst and
taken from us our honored sister whom we all
l[-]ved, an earnest supporter and counselor of the
society, be it
	Resolved, By the members of this society, that
we tender to the bereaved family our sincere sym-
pathy, and earnestly desire that God will comfort
them in their affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family, a copy be placed on record and
one forwarded to the EXPONENT for publication.
						MARTHA BECK.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, & JULY 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
JUNE NINETEEN HUNDRED.
	The month of June, Nineteen Hundred,
has been unusually full of stirring events
and happy occasions. Many pretty wed-
dings and brilliant receptions, some given
to guests from a distance, and others to
emphasize some occasion of special im-
portance.
	The first day of June Brigham Young’s
birthday was celebrated, both in the city,
with appropriate ceremonies, and at Saltair
with eloquent and telling addresses from
men of learning and famed for eloquence.
No tribute we as a people can pay to this
great leader and pioneer can be too much
of an ovation to his great genius, his
ability to plan and execute with skill,
energy and wisdom for the people whom he
loved so devotedly, and to whom, under
God, he gave his time, his talents and his
best efforts devotedly and untiringly.

	The General Conference of the Y. M.
and Y. L. Associations, which convened in
this city on the 10th, 11th and 12th of
June, and which brought the officers of
these institutions from afar—Mexico,
Canada, the Eastern, Northwestern and
Southern States, was a never to be for-
gotten occasion, and will be far-reaching in
its results, not only on those who were
favored to attend, but upon the great
work they represent. The serious illness
of the General President and the President
of the Church, Lorenzo Snow, was the one
drawback to the perfect enjoyment of the
conference. In consequence of this the
reception that had been planned to be
given in the Bee Hive had to be changed
to the Gardo House.
	This reception was on a magnificent
scale in every particular. The house itself,
which is elegantly furnished, was artistic-
ally decorated by specialists, and outside
banners flags, bunting. Chinese lanterns,
arclights and all the pretty effects of ap-
plied electricity gave the beautiful grounds
the appearance of fairyland. A dancing
floor on the west side of the lawn accomo-
dated the dancers, and bands of music were
playing both indoors and out. Young
ladies in shimmering white, and a great
variety of becoming colors, flitted here and
there dancing or helping to entertain those
who were not dancing and guests from a
distance, and the young men were particu-

[Column 2]
larly attentive and desirous to do all in
their power to make everyone happy and
comfortable. It was one of the most bril-
liant affairs of its kind ever given in this
city, tho’ Salt Lake is famous for success-
ful entertainments.

	The Scandinavian Jubilee was held in
June, beginning the 14th, in commemor-
ation of the half century that had elapsed
since the Gospel was first introduced into
the Scandinavian countries, and it was an
event of great importance in Church history.
Their representatives came from long dis-
tances to take part in the proceedings, which
were of great interest. The Tabernacle
decorations were very fine and in good
taste, and the flags displayed of the several
countries were quite a study. The enter-
tainments were all in keeping with the
occasion and gave opportunity for social
intercourse and renewing of old acquain-
tannce that was very pleasant and satisfac-
tory.
	One session was entirely given to the
women, Sister Minnie J. Snow presiding,
which was a sort of departure for them and
shows they are falling in line with the
spirit of progress. Sister Stevens read a
poem of her own composition at this meet-
ing, which we publish on another page in
this issue. They have their poets and
orators, several of them vigorously gifted in
these respects, and are quite famous for
beautiful singers and musicians, that have
not only done honor to their own people,
but to Utah. Sister Snow was presented
with an exquisite bouquet of flowers, an
expression of affection which she fully appre-
ciated.

	On the 22nd of June the Sons and
Daughters of the Pioneers of Utah county
celebrated with a feast and meetings at
Pleasant Grove. A program had been pre-
pared and visitors expected from a distance.
The exercises were in charge of the presi-
dent, Apostle Reed Smoot, who in the
kindliest manner cared for all present. A
bowery under the trees was comfortably
seated and afforded ample room for a larger
gathering. Carriages had been sent to the
station for the guests coming by train, and
at 10 a. m. there was an informal recep-
tion. Then music by the Pleasant
Grove band and prayer by the chaplain,
President Edward Partridge. Hymn, “O,
ye mountains high” and address of welcome
by Professor J. L. Brown, responded to by
Apostle Reed Smoot. The address assigned
to Governor Heber M. Wells was given by
Apostle A. O. Woodruff. A song by Miss
Arville Clark, with organ accompaniment,
by Professor Lund, was greatly appreciated.
A part of the program, the Pioneer
Fathers, was given by Apostle Rudger
Clawson. A song by Miss Mary West was
very sweet and tender.
	At the banquet two hundred guests were
seated and a fine menu was partaken of,
which the guests appreciated by partaking
bountifully. Professor J. L. Brown acted
as toastmaster and was quite humorous in
some of the parts. Mrs. E. B. Wells gave
“A Morning in Camp.” A buffalo hunt,
Mr. Hancock, a stampede, wittily given by
J. Golden Kimball, son of Heber C. Kim
ball, who always reminds one of his father
in his manner of expressing himself. “The
First Glimpse of the Valley,” Moroni
Snow, son of Apostle Erastus Snow. Song
by Professor A. C. Lund, rendered in most
excellent voice, “The Blue and the Gray.”

[Column 3]
Song, Miss Arville Clark, “Annie Laurie,”
she has a fine voice and good expression.
	Afternoon exercises. Apostle Brigham
Young spoke in a most impressive manner
npon the subject “The Debt We Owe.”
“The Battalion Boys” was given by S. L.
White. Mayor W. Clark recited, in a graphic
manner, ‘‘The Settler’s Story.” The com-
pany sang “Babylon, O Babylon.” Apostle
Reed Smoot made some very well timed
remarks, urging the duty of keeping in
mind the privations and toil of the Pioneers
and paying tribute to their memory and
deeds of valor.
	The affair was a very happy one and it
seems appropriate that in every county in
Utah such a society should be organized
and kept up. All honor to the brave
pioneers who made it possible for thousands
to have happy homes in these vales of the
mountains.

	On the 13th of June the Primary Asso-
ciation held a General Conference in the
Tabernacle, the children assembled in great
numbers. The General Board were all
present in person, and also Presidents
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, of
the First Presidency of the Church. A
very pathetic feature of the conference was
the prayer offered by the children for the
venerable President of the Church, Lorenzo
Snow, who had been expecting to address
them and was too ill to be present. The
president, Sister Louie B. Felt, presided at
this great gathering of the children of Zion.
The vast work accomplished by this organ-
ization during the twenty-one years since
the movement was started is a spiritual up-
lift such as can only be appreciated by those
connected with this magnificent work. Its
leaders and originators deserve the highest
tribute of praise from the parents in the
Church.
	At evening a banquet was given in the
Sixteenth Ward meeting house. Tables
were laid for three hundred guests. Presi-
dents George Q. Cannon and Joseph F.
Smith were present also several Apostles and
Joseph E. Taylor, of the Salt Lake Stake.
Elder Joseph H. Felt made a humorous
opening speech when all were seated, and
President Louie B. Felt expressed herself in
a few well-chosen words of welcome to her
guests. President George Q. Cannon asked
the blessing upon the feast. A program
had been prepared and Sister Cornelia H.
Clayton took the part of Toastmistress, to
which she seemed admirably adapted. Sis-
ter E. B. Wells responded to the toast, “Our
Grandfathers.” President George Q. Can-
non, “Our Grandmothers.” Maria Y.
Dougall, “Our Fathers.” President Joseph
F. Smith, “Our Mothers.” Aurelia S.
Rogers, “The Primaries.”
	The affair was most enjoyable, especially
meeting with workers from a distance in a
social way. President Felt and her co-
laborers are to be congratulated in having
made the conference and entertainment such
a success. Songs were well chosen and
finely rendered by some of the sweetest
singers of Israel.
	The Primary Association is an institution
that stands alone in the world. There is
no such training for children in any other
church or locality, and certainly it has
given excellent proof of its importance in
the training of the little people of Zion.

	June has been a notable month this year
in the matter of accidents, fires and nations
at war or declaring war, one can scarcely


contemplate the happenings of the month
without a feeling akin to horror, and the
outlook is, judging from present conditions, 
indeed very threatening to peace and safety.
	National Conventions held recently by
both great parties argue great political 
contests at election time, and the enthusiasm 
may turn ones attention from the sickening
depression caused by dwelling upon calami-
ties and causalities of recent occurrence.
	June has been beautiful in bloom this
year, roses and other fragrant blossoms in
great abundance, and with the numerous
parties, receptions and school entertain-
ments and weddings that have been given,
the flowers have added much in the way of
artistic decorations.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A QUIET WEDDING IN JUNE.
	On Wednesday, June 27, 1900, a very
quiet wedding was solemnized in the Salt
Lake Temple, Bishop John R. Winder
officiating. The bride and bridegroom
were Miss Mabel Tamson McBride, formerly
of Fillmore, and Mr. John Phillip Tate,
of Tooele. The only friends present ex-
cept the official witnesses, were Mrs. E. B.
Wells and Mrs. E. J. Stevenson.
	Miss McBride had been with the writer
for some months and had rendered valuable
assistance in the office work of the
EXPONENT, making herself quite familiar
with its details. Previously she had taken
the training for the kindergarten and had
been quite successful in the work be-
fore coming to Salt Lake. Here she
taught for the L. D. S. College in the
Social Hall, but the school being discon-
tinued on account of unavoidable circum-
stances, she sought other employment.
	The young couple became acquainted
while attending school at the Brigham
Young Academy, in Provo. When the
country’s call was made for troops from
Utah, Mr. Tate was enrolled as a member
of Battery C. and remained with it until
the company was mustered out by orders
from headquarters. He is a young man of
excellent character and habits and good
business ability. Mr. and Mrs. Tate ex-
pect to reside permanently in Tooele.
	The EXPONENT offers its heartiest con-
gratulations to these young people just
entering upon the matrimonial voyage, may
the choicest of heaven’s blessings attend
them on their way and their bark glide past
the danger shoals and dark places in safety
and be guided always wisely in the direc-
tions to secure peace and the riches of
eternal life.
	I do believe who love hath known,
	Or sublime friendship’s purest, highest tone,
	Hath tasted of the cup of ripest bliss,
	And drank the choicest wine life hath to give.
	Hath known the truest joy it is to live,
	What blessing rich or great compared to this?


A RARE JUNE WEDDING.
	Undoubtedly the month of June is the
most delightful time of the year to have
pretty weddings, and there have been a
large number of very elaborate ones this
June season, the most significant one, per-
haps, being solemnized on Friday, June
29, in the Salt Lake Temple, the cere-
mony being performed by President George
Q. Cannon at 4 p. m. The bride and
bridegroom were Miss Maud M. Ford, of
Cleveland, Ohio, and Mr. Le Roi C. Snow,
of Salt Lake.
	A royal reception was given by the


parents of the bridegroom at the Bee Hive
House, in this city. Eight hundred in-
vitations had been sent out, though many
of them were to friends at a distance in
different states. However, some hundreds
of the relatives and friends assembled to
offer congratulations and good wishes on
this happy and auspicious occasion.
	The bride was attired in an exquisite
white gown of soft material, and Miss
Mabelle Snow in pink crepon, little Lucile
Snow in pale blue silk, all charming and
dressed in good taste.
	The decorations outside and the illum-
inations were profuse and in bright colors
that corresponded with the artistic decor-
ations and festivities within the grand old
residence, where so many brilliant parties
have been given in the days gone by.
	It is utterly useless in our little paper to
attempt an elaborate description of the
beauty and splendor of the scene without
and within. The colors of the decorating
were fastidiously blended, and the refresh-
ments carried out the same idea of color in
effect. Bands of music were playing
throughout the evening, and Professors
Lund and Anderson, also Miss Mary
Young rendered vocal selections adapted
to the occasion. Appropriate recitations
were given by Messrs B. S. and Morris
Young.
	Mr. and Mrs. Snow received their friends
in the east drawing room, which was
beautifully decorated and draped, making
it a bower of beauty in which to receive
the congratulations and good wishes of
their “dear five hundred friends.”
	The presents were displayed on tables in
the library and were for the most part in
the same style of elegance as the house, its
furnishings and surroundings, in fact every-
thing seemed in keeping with the auspici-
ous union of two young lovers just enter-
ing upon the smooth and shining sea of
matrimony without a ripple or a wavelet
to disturb the onward passage of Hymen’s
bark.
“There’s a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
		told,
	When two, that are linked in one heavenly tie,
With hearts never changing, and brow never cold,
Love on through all ills and love on till they die.”


[Column 1]
MISS AMERICAN’S VISIT.
	Miss Sadie American, who recently paid
a visit to Utah, is a typical Jewess, well and
favorably known throughout this country.
She is the corresponding secretary of the
National Council of Jewish Women of the
U. S., and is a woman of strong character
and pronounced opinions. She is a con-
spicuous figure in Washington at the trien-
nials of the National Council and always
commands the attention of the audience
wherever she speaks because of her brilliant
originality and vigorous speech. She im-
presses one as feeling and believing in what
she endeavors to impart to others. She
made a good impression at the Congress in
London when she read a paper in the Large
Hall. Westminister Town Hall, on Vaca-
tion Schools. Much of her work has been
along this line and she has been very suc-
cessful. Miss American spoke a few words
in the large Tabernacle in this city on Sun-
day, June 17, although the Scandinavians
were holding their Jubilee and indeed it
seemed quite appropriate, considering she
represented a people whose origin was of
the orient. During her visit she was the
recipient of many favors from the Jewish

[Column 2]
people of Salt Lake, whose guest she was,
and from the two great societies N. W. R. S.
Y.L.M.I.A. represented in N. C. W. of U.
S., which we have every reason to believe
she fully appreciated. Miss American was
accompanied by her mother, Mrs. American,
who shared in the good wishes and hospi-
tality extended to the talented daughter.
	On Monday afternoon Mrs. Ida M.
Bamberger gave a reception in honor of
Miss American at her elegant home in this
city, which was a most enjoyable affair.
The house was simply a bower of roses and
palms, and the music of a fine band of
string instruments was enchanting. A
number of lovely young girls, who had
just been admitted to the Sacrament,
dressed in the white in which they had
received their initiation to the Jewish syna-
gogue waited upon the guests, who num-
bered hundreds coming and going during
the afternoon. The refreshments were
dainty and refreshing, and served in most
elegant style. Mrs. Bamberger’s mother,
Mrs. Maas, of Cincinnati, had arrived unex-
pectedly just in time to be one more guest
of honor and add to the enjoyment of the
party. Mrs. Bamberger may congratulate
herself on giving so much genuine pleasure
to those who availed themselves of this
rare opportunity of meeting Miss and Mrs.
American and Mrs. Maas and taking part
in the social conversation besides enjoying
the music and flowers and the friendly
atmosphere that prevaded the beautiful
home of the hostess.
	On Tuesday morning Miss American
spoke to the Salt Lake Jewish Council in
their own meeting, called especially for
the purpose of listening to one who had
had a large experience in matters of inter-
est to them. Tuesday afternoon a luncheon
was given at the Lagoon in her honor by
the Jewish ladies to which a number of
other guests were invited, and it was a
most enjoyable affair, notwithstanding the
heat. The banquet (for indeed it was) was
served in the most hospitable fashion and
the arrangement of the party altogether
was admirable, indeed there was nothing
lacking on the part of Mr. and Mrs.
Bamberger that would add to the pleasure
and happiness of the day.
	Wednesday, June 20, a Lake party of
about a hundred ladies was given at Saltair
in honor of Miss American. Mrs Minnie
J. Snow kindly tendered the car which con-
veyed the guests thither. Mrs. Snow was
not able to attend the gatherings in honor of
Miss American, on account of the illness of
President Snow at that time, but we were
favored to have her present to participate in
the festivities at the Lake. Miss American
thoroughly enjoyed the bath in the beauti-
ful Salt Sea of America and we believe her
trip to the Lake will be one of the bright
spots in her visit to Utah. Refreshments 
were served in the most informal way, but
seasoned with happy converse. Mrs. Susa
Young Gates acted as toastmistress, and is
certainly complete mistress of this difficult
role. The first toast called for was
“Women from the West,” and was re-
sponded to by Mrs. E. B. Wells, in a sort
of welcome to the distinguished guest of the
occasion. Miss American responded in a
delightful manner and with much feeling,
to the sentiment, “Women from the Far
East,” in which she spoke of her pleasant
acquaintance with the Utah Women whom
she had met and become attached to in the
National Council.


Mrs. Simon Bamberger, “Friendship’s
Ties,” was graphically portrayed in a gra-
cious manner. Miss Rose Goldberg (a
prospective bride) spoke tenderly and
beautifully to the toast “Old Hopes, Old
Friends, Old Times.” Her words were
aptly chosen and her manner simply de-
lightful. “The Link Between the
School and the World,” responded to by
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker, was characteristic
of this scholarly woman, who is conversant
with matters of both social and educational
nature in the community. “Speed the
Parting Guest,” by Mrs. Minnie J. Snow,
was fittingly appropriate, and both in spirit
and effect a beautiful close to the enjoyable
and friendly feeling that had pervaded the
intercourse of the few days visit of Miss
American. All good wishes attend her in
her summer vacation and rest in California,
the land of flowers.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We had the pleasure of attending the
annual meeting of the Primary Association
in the Tenth ward, Thursday, May 24. It
was twenty-one years since the organization
was effected and was a sort of gala day for
the children. The meeting house was
prettily decorated with flowers of great
variety, and the president, Sister Howarth,
looked as happy as the little ones. She had
prepared a short program in which the chil-
dren did themselves and their teachers great
credit, both in singing and reciting. Of the
Salt Lake Stake Primary officers there were
present Superintendent Camilla Cobb and
Assistant Mary L. Morris, also President
Elizabeth Paul, of the Tenth ward Relief
Society. Brief remarks were made by the
sisters and by Brother Keddington, coun-
selor to the Bishop. The little folks spent
the afternoon at Liberty Park to celebrate
their anniversary. This is one of the Primary
Associations we had the privilege and honor
of organizing, in May 1879. Sister Jennie
McLean was its first president, and was
most faithful and energetic in this and in
all her duties. Sister Howarth seems ad-
mirably adapted to work with the little
ones, and we certainly wish her earnest
endeavors may prove successful in training
some of the children of Zion.
	Mrs. A. W. Carlson gave a Kensington at
her very pretty home, on Friday, June 29,
or one might with all propriety call it a
garden party, for the heat was so intense
that most of the guests preferred to sit out
on the lawn and in the shade of the beauti-
ful trees and the hedge of pretty soft
shrubbery. The view from Mrs. Carlson’s
home is particularly fine, magnificent at
sunset. It was an enjoyable afternoon
notwithstanding the heat. Mrs. Carlson
has a happy faculty of entertaining her
guests, and is a graceful and charming
hostess. There were perhaps forty ladies in
the party, many of them old friends who
had not met each other for years, and re-
newing old acquaintances in this pleasant
fashion makes one feel doubly indebted to
the hostess. Surely gatherings of this sort
without parade or ostentation are pleasant
places in one’s memory afterwards, a change
from the humdrum of daily toil; and really
one should occasionally take these breath-
ing spells on life’s highway, and value the
opportunity of a few hours interchange in
social converse. There were delicious
refreshments served in a rare hospitable
way, five o’clock tea with all the dainties

[Column 2]
one could imagine as well, quite unlike the
English pretty custom of serving tea and
wafers. Mrs. Carlson may certainly con-
gratulate herself upon the success of her
Kensington, tho’ as for sewing, etc. the
ladies were usually occupied in using fans
instead of needles.
	Saturday, July 16, at 3 p. m., the Society
D. R. met at the residence of the writer to
celebrate two important days, “Old Glory”
and the ’’Battle of Bunker Hill.” The
parlors were decorated in blue, and buff and
the stars and stripes were conspicuous here
and there. The portico was festooned with
bunting, while roses in great variety, car-
nations, California poppies, pansies and
larkspur gave the rooms a gala day appear-
ance. Vice-Regent Maria Y. Dougall
presided. Meeting opened with prayer by
Mrs. M. W. Wilcox. The ladies sang
America, Mrs Willard Cannon leading, Miss
Vera Cannon accompanist. Roll call was
responded to by patriotic sentiments.
Several letters were read from absent mem-
bers, and informally recollections of the
original occasion being observed were made
the theme of the speakers. Mrs. Willard
Cannon sang with spirit and thrilling
melody, “The Star Spangled Banner,” and
Mrs. Annie W. Cannon read most feelingly,
“The Flag Goes By.” After the
exercises ice cream, cake and lemonade
were partaken of, and as the guests were
saying their good byes, they carried away
handsfull of roses. May the fragrance of
that day be as fresh and sweet in their re-
membrance as the roses were on that bright,
sunny day in beautiful June.
	On Tuesday, June 25, Mr. and Mrs.
Morris B. Young gave a dinner party and
evening entertainment at their hospitable
home in Forest Dale. Notwithstanding
the heat was intense a sumptuous dinner
was served at 3 o’clock in the afternoon.
The dining room was fragrant with the
sweet flowers and the table decorations
were very pretty. The guests of honor
were Mrs. Hannah Snow Lewis and Mr.
and Mrs. Oliver Snow, of Ohio, cousins of
President Lorenzo Snow and of the hostess,
Mrs. Young, his daughter. Other guests
were: Mrs. Z. D. H. Young, Mrs. M. I.
Horne, Mrs. Margaret P. Young, Mrs.
Emma Woodruff, Mrs. Alice and Mrs.
Regina Pond and the writer. The conver-
sation was very highly flavored with rem-
iniscences of early days in the valley, in
which Sister Eliza R. Snow and the vener-
able President Lorenzo Snow had taken
part. Later on towards evening quite a
party arrived and there was music and
singing, and the porches and shade of the
trees was filled with the younger people.
President F. Y. Taylor and wife, of Granite
Stake, Bishop Millen C. Atwood and wife,
of Sugar Ward; Drs. Leslie W. and M. O.
Snow; Elder Le Roi C. Snow and Miss
Ford and many others of the Snow family.
Ice cream, cake and lemonade were served
to all the large number of guests.
	On Friday afternoon, June 15, quite a
large party of ladies assembled by invitation
of Mrs. C. R. Howe, at her residence in this
city, in honor of the 77th birthday anniver-
sary of her mother-in-law, Sister Julia C.
Howe, who is one of the best known
women in the city, and is universally be-
loved. She has been connected with chari-
table and philanthropic work ever since
coming among our people, and is a woman
of exceptional attainments in many respects,

[Column 3]
and has had large opportunities in early
life, and is particularly well acquainted with 
the Bible, which of itself is a rare acquisition.
Sister Howe has not only been associated
with the work of the Relief Society, but
also with the Y. L. M. I. A. and the
Primary Association, and in all the posi-
tions she has been called to fill she has been 
efficient and untiring in her efforts, and she
has the adaptability necessary to success in
managing young people: She has a fine
personality and is remarkably well preserved
for her age, looking much younger than
her years. There were present at the party
Sisters M. Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W.
Smith, Margaret Y. Taylor, Matilda M.
Barratt, Elizabeth Webb, Elizabeth J.
Stevenson, Susan Smith, Lydia Ann, Han-
nah and Susan Wells, and Maria W. Wil-
cox, whose birthday occurs on the same
day, though she is a few years younger.
There were many other sisters present, in
all thirty or more, and the afternoon was
very happily spent in congratulations and
general social conversation and birthday
greetings. The rooms were very prettily
decorated, there were roses, carnations and
sweet peas in abundance. Delicious refresh-
ments were served in dainty fashion, the
hostess, young Mrs. Howe, knowing ex-
actly how to entertain her guests, which is
a happy faculty. May Sister Howe have 
many more such delightful birthdays, tho’ 
we are aware that every year takes from us
one or more who have been accustomed to
meet with us at such reunions.


THE MOTHERS’ CONGRESS.
			(Concluded.)
	Educators for years have realized the im-
portance of this strength of union, but
its worth has never until the last few years
seemed to arouse the women to action.
Goethe tells us “A talent may be perfected
in solitude, a character only in the world.”
It is certainly characters we want and
character can only come to woman and man
alike, and that way is through service for
the children of God.
	God’s greatest gift to mankind was love;
man’s greatest gift to his fellow is love; we
know thoughts are things, and as we think
of people we are helping them to grow into
ideals, for our thoughts generally rule our
acts.
	Poor though we may be, without influ-
ence, without ability, yet can we help
humanity to attain to the best, the truest,
the highest. So I would say organize, if
the spirit of progression pervades you will
have crowded meetings, for there are
women and mothers who hunger for knowl-
edge, as they feel their inability more and
more each day, to battle with the responsi-
bilities which surround them.

	The evening session of the Mothers’
Congress was the “fathers’ evening,” and
was presided over by Professor Byron
Cummings. Rev. Clarence T. Brown
opened with prayer and Professor Cum-
mings followed with remarks that expressed
the recognition of the noble and worthy
aims of the women’s congress.
	Hon. George M. Cannon, in an address
entitled “The Relation of the Parent to the
School,” spoke upon the importance of
educating our children and also that morals
should be inculcated as a part of his school
training. The world is progressing con-
stantly and the young should be trained


[Column 1]
and educated to meet its growing knowledge.
	Prof. William M. Stewart, of the
University of Utah, spoke upon the subject
of “School and Domestic Life.” An un-
fortunate condition existed, Prof. Stewart
said, in these relations. The father usually
leaves his home early in the morning and
returns at night, and usually devotes him-
self to his newspaper or goes out to partici-
pate in separate public interests which occu-
pied his attention, the wife had her separ-
ate interests and the children theirs. There
in reality should be accordance and union
of usefulness in the home. All should
“pull together” to accomplish the highest
results. Prof. Stewart also spoke on the
evils of the saloon, and declared it to be a
blot upon the civilization of the world.

	The Mothers’ Congress reconvened in
the morning at 10 o’clock. The meeting
opened with prayer by Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young after which Mrs. Lucretia Kimball
spoke upon the “Educational Preparation
of Parenthood.” Mrs. Kimball said: “I
come before you here as a mother who feels
how far short she has fallen below her
ideals of motherhood and desiring to gain
from the ideas and association here aid in 
bettering them. I desire to speak upon
Parenthood rather than Motherhood. I be-
lieve that the spiritual should be considered
first, and that upon the development of
spiritual the physical and moral will follow.
What would it mean if men and women set
themselves to study for the holy profession
of parenthood? When a girl evinces a
talent for music we decide that everything
should be done in preparation for the devel-
opment of her gift. But how much atten-
tion or care is devoted to the development
of the holy gift of motherhood?”
	Mrs. Lucy Hoving, of Logan, expressed
it as her sentiment and hope that the time
might come when no girl would be per-
mitted to marry without first having
mastered the Kindergarten course.
	Miss May said this question of Kinder-
ten training was important enough for
thorough discussion. One girl had been
allowed to take Kindergarten course, who 
wanted to go on the stage. She did so,
aad it seemed to crush out all desire for the
stage together with all the frivolity and
lightness that had hitherto ruled her life.
	Mrs. E. E. Shepherd followed with an
address upon the subject of “Honor Be-
tween Men and Women.”
	There has been an idea for ages that the
single life is the only pure life, and we have
celibacy enforced in the priests in many re-
ligions. Considered in its true and holy
light, lived in the way that God intends,
marriage is holy. The progress, morality
and purity of the race depend upon the
right understanding and practice of right
laws.
	The greater freedom of women and their
wider mingling with the world has obliter-
ated, to a great extent, the thought of sex.
	How often we hear parents say, “Oh my
boy is sowing his wild oats, he will come
out all right.” How would you like to
have your daughters sow wild oats? A
boy who sows his wild oats, is never the 
equal of the the pure young girl joined with
him in marriage.
	What can we as Mothers’ Congress do to
destroy this false standard? We must set
ourselves to consider these subjects and
help to solve these questions which affect
the progress and morality of the world.

[Column 2]
	The meeting adjourned at 12 o’clock to
meet at 2 p. m.
	“The Rights of Children” was the subject
under discussion in the afternoon at the
Mothers’ Congress. Mrs. R. T. Hilliard,
of Ogden, reviewing the physical side of the
question and Miss Whalen, of the same
city, the ethical.
	It is becoming recognized that the child
has his rights equally or even more im-
portantly than the adult. Every child
primarily has the right to be well born, to
have a perfect and healthful body, and the
right to have this body properly cared for.
Every child should also have the benefit of
normal training, that his hands may be
skilled to create beautiful things. If a child
is properly trained the aptitude for re-
sponsibility will come with years. There
is a growing interest in the question of the
right training and culture of children. This
unrest has evidenced in the many mothers’
organizations throughout the land, and
there is no doubt a better condition soon to
develop from this unrest. We must not
decide ourselves selfishly to our own chil-
dren; we must better the entire world or
our efforts to regenerate the race will be in
vain. Mrs. Hilliard gave some clever
illustrations of the importance of the con-
sideration of economics in the solving of
social problems.
	The Chaminade chorus under Mrs.
Lewis directorship sang two beautiful
selections from Rene the King.
	Mrs. Stewart in response to President
Little’s call for discussion of Mrs. Hilliard’s
paper, said that she thought the most im-
portant right of the child was to be desired.
No one has the moral right to bring an un-
welcome child into the world. They should
also have a place. Usually they are made
to feel in the way, there is no place pre-
pared for their play in the home and it is
not strange that they are found on the
street and in undesirable spots.
	Mrs. Alice E. Harford gave the group of
children’s songs postponed from the pre-
vious day’s program, illustrating the kind
of songs desirable and appropriate for chil-
dren. “The Wind,” “The Tulips,” “The
Owl and Hare,” “You Seen my Kitty,”
were the titles of the songs sung and were
received with applause.
	President Little appointed a nominating
committee to prepare a list of officers to pre-
sent for election, after which Miss Whalen,
of Ogden, made an interesting address deal-
ing with the ethical rights of children.
Her talk was enjoyed throughout and
elicited much applause.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
WASATCH STAKE.
	The National Relief Society Conference
of Wasatch Stake convened in the Stake
house at Heber on Monday, May 28, at
10:30 a. m.. Meeting opened by singing
“Sweet is the work.” Prayer was offered
by Elder Joseph Moulton. Singing,
“With all my powers of heart and tongue.”
The officers’ roll was called, showing
twenty seven present.
	There were present on the stand Stake
President Annie R. Duke and her counsel-
ors, also officers representing the different
wards, which were all reported as being
generally in a flourishing condition.
	Instructive remarks were made by sister
Ann Murdock, Patriarch John Duke and
others.

[Column 2]
	At the afternoon session the annual re
port was read and accepted, after which the
time was well occupied by various speakers
on topics of interest, among the number
being Brother J. W. Rigdon, a son of Sid-
ney Rigdon, of Church history fame, who
spoke in a very interesting manner con-
cerning the testimony of his father in re-
lation to the Book of Mormon and the
Prophet Joseph Smith. Spoke of the in-
dustry of the Latter-day Saints which had
caused “the desert to blossom as the rose,”
and said they need have no fear of being
driven from their homes in the mountains as
long as they were faithful in keeping the
commandments of the Lord. President
Hatch and counselors and T. H. Giles each
addressed the conference and felt to give
praise for the great good being accomplished
by this organization. The Stake officers
were presented and all unanimously sus-
tained, after which conference adjourned
for six months.
		HANNAH HARBOUR, Stake Sec. 
SEVIER STAKE.
	Relief Society conference convened at 10
a. m. at the meeting house, President
Christina Sorensen presiding. Singing,
“Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Prayer by Brother Robert F. Goold. Sing-
ing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire.”
	Officers present on the stand were, Presi-
dent Christina Sorensen, Counselors Mary
E. Magleby and Ellen Thueson, Treasurer
Caroline Bohman, also Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson, of Salt Lake Gity, and Sister
Marilla Daniels, of Provo, who had come
to attend the conference and visit some of
the branches with the Stake Board.
	Roll call, fourteen wards represented out
of sixteen. Minutes of forenoon meeting
of last conference read.
	Several of the presidents reported their
societies in pretty good working order,
wheat in good condition, stored in tithing
granaries; they hold testimony and intel-
lectual meetings; the sisters are united,
have good meetings, are willing to help in
all good works, some do not attend meet-
ings regularly; work meetings held when
necessary; teachers visit and bring in good
reports; sisters willing to donate; small
wards are more diligent in their labors;
the same sisters belong to the Relief Soci-
ety, the Young Ladies and the Primary 
Associations; all sisters expressed them-
selves as being pleased to have the sisters
from headquarters visiting with us.
	President Sorensen introduced Sister
Stevenson and Sister Daniels.
	Sister M. Daniels was pleased to hear
reports, spoke of wheat being represented
this morning, only one ward had their own
granary, encouraged the building of gran-
aries. President Woodruff’s instructions to
the sisters were to keep on gathering grain.
Read from the EXPONENT of April 15,
1898, how to build a granary out of noth-
ing, by sisters of St. George. Be prepared,
for great changes are taking place. Spoke
of the first organization of the Relief Society
by the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of going
back to Jackson County to build up Zion.
Every mother should encourage her
daughters to join the Relief Society. Gave
her experience in performing duties [-]nd
labors in the Gospel.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said: “It is no small
matter to speak to sisters of the Latter-day
Saints. We will receive the Holy Spirit if
we live for it.” Spoke of building gra[---]


[Column 1]
ies, of the sayings of President Brigham
Young that the sisters should build their
own Relief Society halls and granaries.
Spoke of the building of the Fourteenth
Ward Relief Society Hall by the help of
the brethren and their own energy. It is
the duty of the young people to attend and
take hold of responsibilities. Our mission
is to encourage all in good works, attend
to family prayers, be punctual in opening
our meetings.
	President Sorensen was pleased with the
remarks made, urged the sisters to come on
time.
	Minutes read by the secretary. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Benediction by
Bishop Orson Magleby. 
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.,
President Sorenson presiding. Singing,
“Guide us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Brother C. P. Christensen. Sing-
ing, “O ye mountains high.” Minutes of
afternoon session of last conference read.
	Other presidents present reported their
wards, gave favorable reports of their
labors. In intellectual meetings they
read from the history of Joseph Smith,
Doctrine and Covenants and other good
books. All the sisters feel to do their duty
and improve by instructions given.
	Sister Stevenson encouraged the sisters
to go on in good works. Said teachers are
the backbone of the society. We should be
careful in financial matters, be judicious
and happy with what little is ours. Spoke
of the noble spirits being born in this gener-
ation. We should know the mind
and will of God on marriage, and there
would not be so many divorces. Spoke of
the work for the dead. Teach our children
to pay tithing, cultivate and improve, there
is no stopping place.
	Stake President Seegmiller was pleased to
hear reports; was considering the great
results of the organization of the Relief
Society in these days, and of the great
work that will yet be done in the future.
Asked God to comfort all with His Holy
Spirit and that our daughters may be de-
sirous of accomplishing what they were
sent here for.
	Sister Daniels encouraged the sisters
to be charitable, our mission is to save souls
put in practice all the good we can.
	Minutes of meeting read, closing remarks
by President Sorensen, thanks to President
Seegmiller. Joseph S. Horne and all the
brethren and sisters who had attended the
meetings. We have had a feast of good
things.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.” Con-
ference adjourned for three months. Bene-
diction by President Joseph S. Horne.
	The sisters also visited with us according
to program arranged. Many valuable in-
structions were given and many blessings
enjoyed, and all the sisters who had the
privilege of listening have felt the great out-
pouring of the Spirit of God in our meet-
ings. All are willing to come up more
fully to the duties required of them. The
sisters will observe the 17th of March more

[Column 2]
fully in the future; in all paying member-
ship fee. Encouraged the sisters to take
the EXPONENT, it is our paper.
			MARY SWINDLE, Sec.
	Monroe, June 8, 1900.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
We find at the last moment that a page
of copy has been lost relating to Miss Ameri-
can’s visit, which spoke of her lecthre in the
Jewish, Synagogue, her appearance when on
the platform and the impression she made
upon the audience; also the music, flowers
and other items.—The Editor.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.,
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and 
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5.	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 	1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings.
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
	Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
		And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,		D E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.			G. P. & T. A


A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	Our three eldest daughters have children
under their tuition. They almost feel the
responsibilities of mothers. It is a task
equal to taming wild animals. Our third
daughter, Lois, has a little girl eight years
of age, as near as we can judge, her parents
do not know. Her father is a half-breed
Frenchman. A sweeter tempered child I
never knew, always submissive to the re-
quirements of her teachers, and easily per-
suaded to leave off all her unpleasant habits.
I should consider it a great loss of labor and
mental exertion to leave her behind when
we go from here, and allow her to fall
back to her native state and forget all we
have taught her. Ellen has wrought a
visible change in the two she has under her
care.
	Oh, what wonders might be wrought in
the training of these children! Who
would not be content to be buried from the
world to effect it?
	Occasionally I have a leisure day, and
not having much variety in my reading, I
read even my old letters, which my mother
and sisters sent me years ago. The sad
remembrance of days of sorrow came vivid-
ly before me, and I wept—a rare occurence
with me. Sister C. said she did not like to
read old letters, it brought back memories
which gave her pain. But with myself it
is an established habit to review the past,
and live my life over. It seems sublime
and sacred, though it should cause sighs
and tears.
	Brother Crosby has at length succeeded
in delivering a discourse in the Tahitian,
much to the understanding of his hearers.
In the evening service several native breth-
ren came to me for comments on the vision
of Daniel. In my broken manner I talked
of the “Ancient of Days,” told them how
it was explained by Elders in the Church.
They understood my words, and were satis-
fied.
	The “House of Prayer,” as the natives
call it, is the most comfortable place on the
Island, built as it is over water, six large
windows on each side, with slats instead of
glass and sash, to be thrown open or closed
to suit high or low breezes.
		(To be continued.)


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 29.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15 & AUGUST 1, 1900.		Nos. 4 & 5


CONTENTS.
Paris Letter. . . . . . . . . . . . Mary E. R. Webber	17
A Morning in Camp. . . . . . . . . . . . . Aunt Em	17
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting. . . . . . . . . . .		18
Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	18
Westel Wiloughby Greene. . L. L. G Richards	19
U. W. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grace Anderson	19
Notable Women . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	19
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton . . . . . . . . .	22
Obituaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	22
R. S. Reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	23
Preamble and Resolutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	24

EDITORIAL—“The World is Up in Arms” . . .	20
	Aunt Zina’s Party. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	20
	Dr. Talmage’s New Book. . . . . . . . . . . . . .	21
	Unveiling of Pioneer Monument . . . . . . . .	21

POETRY—Cupid Interviewed . O. F. Whitney	17
	Love’s Best . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L. M. H.	19
	Pray Now . . . . . Augusta Joyce Crocheron	19


CUPID INTERVIEWED.
Stay, Cupid, tell me—What is love?
	“’Tis something like a tree—
‘Known by its fruits.’ I fancy, sir,
	And think you will agree.”

What are its fruits—sweet words and smiles?
	“Nay, these its blossoms are,
The promises of fruit to come,
	It may be near or far.”

And what are broken promises?
	“Frost-bitten buds, of course;
Then sweet words change to bitter ones,
	And smiles to frowns, or worse.”

And letters—notes—love’s messages?
	“Oh, letters are but leaves,
Whereof the swain disconsolate
	Hope’s chaplet fondly weaves.”

If letters looked for never come,
	What must I then suppose?
“Your tree is barren—dead—or in
	Another’s garden grows.”

Hold! What of kisses soft and warm?
	“I really couldn’t say—
I never deal with metaphors
	When kisses come my way.”

“But still I answer—Love, true love
	Is very like a tree;
The longer grown the stronger grown
	Where’er that growth may be.

“Such love is not ephemeral,
	It dies not with the day;
Its flowers are heavenly immortelles,
	It teems with fruit alway.

“But soul with soul must sympat[-]ize,
	As sun and soil agree,
Or there shall come nor fruit nor flower,
	For love is like a tree.
					O. F. WHITNEY.


[Column 1]
PARIS LETTER.
			July, 6, 1900.
Dear Sister Wells:
	A few days since I had the pleasure of
sending you an invitation to participate in
the ceremony of unveiling the monument to
Gen. Lafayette, which occurred on the 4th
inst., in the place du Carrousel, (hereafter to
be called Square Lafayette) and believing
that you would be interested in knowing
that the Daughters of the Revolution were
well represented at the function, I give the
names of the committee as follows: Mrs.
John K. Gowdy, Mrs. Ernest H. Tripp,
Mrs. A. E. Cullop, Miss Sarah E. Hunt,
Mrs. George Geran, Mrs. T. G. Webber,
and Miss Tarquinia L. Voss, chairman.

[Column 2]
	Miss Voss effectively read a dedication
poem by Frank A. Putnam, which was
loudly applauded, and the Daughters placed
a large floral piece (about four feet in
diameter) of yellow roses and blue flowers,
the colors of the association, at the foot of
the monument. Among the list of honor-
ary vice-presidents I was more than grati-
fied to find the name of our able and
esteemed governor, Heber M. Wells.
	Among the most notable persons on the
platform were the American Ambassador to
France, Gen. Horace Porter, our Ambassa-
dors to Germany, Russia, Italy and Switzer-
land; His Excellency, the President of the
French Republic (Loubet) and his Cabinet;
Archbishop of Ireland, of St. Paul, and all
the commissioners, including Mrs. Daniel
Manning and Mrs. Potter Palmer. Sousa
and his famous band played our national
airs and the flags of America and France
floated side by side from public and private
buildings alike. In short, America cap-
tured Paris for that day.
	It was a novelty, I assure you, for a
daughter of Utah to march down an avenue
covered with crimson carpet and lined on
each side with soldiers of the guard in their
gorgeous scarlet and gold uniforms at pre-
sent arms, with bands playing and flags
flying.
	Paris at all times is a busy place for the
sight-seer, but this week it has beeil un-
usually so for me. On Sunday I attended
church and met Dr. and Mrs. Thurber,
cousins of Mrs. Byron Groo. The Dr. is
pastor of the American Church here and I
thought his sermon broad and very excel-
lent. On Monday we attended Mrs. Daniel
Manning’s reception given at the Elysee
Palace Hotel, in honor of Mr. Daniel
French, the sculptor of the Washington
monument, which was unveiled on the 3rd
inst. After the unveiling of the Lafayette
monument on Tuesday we attended Gen.
and Mrs. Porter’s reception, said to have
been the most brilliant ever given by an
American Ambassador in Paris, and in the
evening we attended a banquet at the Con-
tinental Hotel, given by the American
Chamber of Commerce. There were over
four hundred guests seated and we had
speeches from Gen. Porter, the French
ministers of War and Commerce, Archbishop
of Ireland, our other foreign Ambassadors
and others of note. The banquet lasted
until after midnight and was very enjoyable.
	I have had a very pleasant hour with
Madame de Mercy, the president of the
Ladies Club, the only woman’s club in
Paris; and Madame Bogelot, who since her
visit to America in 1893 is so pronounced in
praise of our women that she is now called
the “American-French woman.”
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall has asked me to
call on her this evening, so with these social
matters and the Exhibition my hands are
full.
			MARY E. R. WEBBER.
	P. S. Mrs. J. B. Farlow sails on the
Palatia from Bologne on the 9th for home.
Miss Teasdel is at Etaples with an art
class.


A MORNING IN CAMP.
	This was a subject given me to speak
upon at a celebration given by the sons and
daughters of the pioneers of 1847 at
Pleasant Grove, Utah, on the 22nd of June,
1900. I made a few notes which I did not
use on the occasion, and as the object of
perpetuating the storey of the pioneers,
who sought out these vales in the desert, is
one that ought to receive some attention, I
felt to put in print what I had written, as
some thought might thus be awakened and
lead to recollections with others who had
similar experiences.
	A morning in camp is not very amusing,
and if at all pleasant must depend upon
circumstances, one morning will scarcely
suffice as an illustration.
	I must go back to my first morning in
camp in February, 1846, when we had
slept on the ground for the first time in our
lives, a number, thirty-one of us in
one tent. We had crossed the Mississippi
river the day before. When we woke on
the following morning the ground was
covered with snow, a beautiful picture to
look at—tents, wagons all beautiful with
the white covering, and some of us were
romantic enough to admire the scene not-
withstanding the cold and the many dis-
advantage of being out of doors in a snow 
storm, and could not help contrasting the
scene with pictures of Ancient Israel as they
journeyed hither and thither in the olden
times in far off Eastern lands with their
flocks and herds, pitching their tents here
and there, as we were doing.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow described one of
these mornings thus:
 
	“Lo a mighty host of Jacob,
		Tented on the Western shore,
	Of the noble Mississippi,
		Which they had been passing o’er,
	At the last day dawn of Winter,
		Bound with frost and wrapped in snow,
	Hark, the cry is Onward! Onward! 
		Camp of Israel rise and go, 

	All at once is life and motion,
		Trunks and beds and baggage fly,
	Oxen yoked and horses harnessed,
		Tents rolled up and passing by.
	Soon the carriage wheels are moving,
		Onward to a woodland dell
	Where at sunset all are quartered,
		Camp of Israel, all is well.”

	Some mornings our horses were lost or
cattle had strayed and we would be hindered
for hours, and lucky if not for days. Oc-
casionally we found pleasant spots to camp
in, though some were miserable—damp,
rough and always uncomfortable to make
beds down on the ground.
	Mornings we usually had time to get
some kind of a breakfast and put things in
order, but we had to fly around pretty
lively to do it, and quite frequently we had
heavy biscuits and many such annoyances—
kettles upsetting and putting out the fire
in the middle of the cooking. We didn’t
cook scientifically, but we did some things
by weight and measure, for fear the food
would not hold out on the journey. We
always had “starters” that gave the word,
“Take down the tents, put out the fires
and pack up the cooking utensils, don’t


[Column 1]
break the dishes, and get ready quick, jump
in the wagon and take care you are not left
behind.”
	Some people seemed to be ready without
an effort. Altogether we were a happy
crowd; boys and men whistling while they
harnessed the horses or yoked the cattle;
women with babies were particularly well
cared for. President Young and Heber C.
Kimball, the life of the camp, always up
stirring about early while some of the boys
were snoozing. I remember Brother Brigham
Young round the camp at Sugar Creek with
a bucket full of composition tea giving us a
cup of it because we were chilly and cold, we
had just come from our warm fires out into
the cold prairie, facing storms, wind, snow
and sleet; it will hardly bear talking about
even at this late date.
	Sometimes we found in the morning that
we had camped in a spot where there were
wild flowers and clear water, and birds
singing, but this was a rare exception,
generally we were very hungry and before
we could finish our breakfast we were
ordered to pack up and be off. Sunday
mornings were better because we rested,
and about eleven o’clock the camp would
be called together for instructions.
	I assure you I looked over my diary written
when coming out of Nauvoo to see what I did
say about the mornings. Sometimes the
horses were lost and then we were in
great trouble, generally it was muddy,
the water was poor, and once old Bill was
dead and we all mourned because he had
been faithful and was good and strong.
	All of us who have had such wonderful
experiences make our stories too long, there’s
so much to tell; suffice it to say we came,
we conquered every obstacle. Some died
on the way and some were born on the
journey, in fact quite often the exciting
topic of the morning was a new baby. The 
tents blew over in the night quite frequent-
ly and then we had to crowd in wherever
we could, which didn’t help to make us
cheerful in the morning. Early in the
journey before we knew how to arrange and
dispose our kitchen apparatus, the sisters
would complain in the morning that the tin
cans had been poking them in the ribs all
night.
	There was not much fun in the morning,
all was hurry and bustle and the camp cry
was always be off, and we were generally
on our way before we knew it, for there
was no waiting, you jumped on or you got
left, and we girls were afraid to be left, for
there were Indians in those days as well as
buffaloes and wild cats, and we had to be
carried over the rivers in some man’s arms,
you know, because we were not experts at
swimming, and we couldn’t fly, tho’ we 
often wanted to.
	We had prayers in the mornings, in fact
am sure it was faith in God we depended
upon to bring us safely along. It was a
wonderful journey and now after more than
fifty years, looking back upon it, the wonder
is how we had the courage, the persever-
ance, the endurance to accomplish it; the
mornings were not the most agreeable, there
were too many things to do and to think of
though one sister I remember used to say
almost invariably, “I am glad we have a
clean camping place every day, that is a
luxury,” and one that has camped three or
four days or a week in one place would
appreciate that saying most certainly.
	Looking backward I can recall a few
bright mornings when something unusual
broke the monotony, or the scenery was

[Column 2]
more picturesque, or we had seen a beauti-
ful deer, perhaps two or three or half a
dozen such beauties, so graceful in their
movements. I recall a morning when the
boys, who had been out for the cattle found
wild honey and came into camp for buckets
to put it in; this was a great treat. Some-
how we always felt safe; there was order in
the camp, men stood guard at night and we
slept soundly in the open air. Those are
wonderful days to look back upon; how
marvelously we were guided to this land.
	One of the best things to have on such a
journey is cheerfulness under all circum-
stances. In our family we had a Welsh
sister whom everybody called Grandma,
and I have often said since, she kept us
alive with her jokes and witticisms and her
Welsh songs and prayers, for she always
prayed in Welsh and out loud. Whenever
she was offended she would break out in
her Welsh tongue, and invariably put every,
one in a good humor. She drove a little
light wagon aud one horse and took care of
the baby and her own things, and made tea
in her rare old china teapot every morning,
and if we could coax her to give us a cup
of her tea we considered it a favor. Funny
as she was we were all sort of afraid of her,
she rather kept the young folks in order
when she was around, even if it was in the
morning.
	If I should ever have a pioneer subject
again, I trust it will be the camp at eve-
ning, for of that there is something to tell.
					AUNT EM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
July 1, 1900. Meeting opened by singing
“Once more we come before our God.”
Prayer by M. W. Wilcox. Singing,
“Glorious things of thee are spoken.”
President Horne read a letter from Sister
Alder, which was very interesting. She
then told the sisters that she would like to
hear testimonies from them and that when
they testified to the truths ot this work it
strengthened others. Spoke of the old
folks’ excursion, had a very nice time. She
was glad to see President Joseph F. Smith
and other Apostles with the party. Said
Heber Goddard sang “Hard Times.”
Brother Joseph F. Smith said that we would
not have any more hard times. She urged
the sisters to do right and to keep the com-
mandments of God.
	Sister Seabeck was grateful to be with us
and always tried to come to the meetings of
the sisters, for there was a good spirit here
and she always acknowledged the hand of
God in all things and was glad to be num-
bered with the Saints.
	Sister Joanna Peterson felt thankful for
health and strength every day and testified
to the goodness of her Heavenly Father.
Hoped that she would prove faithful to the
end.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “Jesus the
Giver of all we enjoy,” and said she de-
sired to do what was right. We know now
that the day is drawing near when we will
see perilous times, when we hear of wars
and famine and so many accidents.
	Sister Smellie said we must love the
spirit of the Gospel, wanted to say that we
must continue to keep the commandments
of God and He will bless us. She spoke of
Sister Alder and said that it would be nice if
we all could donate a little money so that
she would be able to do more good on her

[Column 2]
mission. “I am sorry we did not have the
minutes here today, I want to speak of the
power of women.”
	Sister Hardy: “I desire to bear my testi-
mony to the truth of this work. May we
strive to set a good example to those around
us.”
	Another sister said that she rejoiced in
the work of the Lord.
	Sister Jane James felt thankful that she
had the Holy Spirit. She thanked Sister
Horne for her blessing, and rejoiced in a
knowledge of the Gospel. She had lived
with the prophet’s family, and had once
converted a young girl to the Gospel.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young: “It is by the
grace of God that we will do His will and
be humble, blessing our brethren and
having the love of the sisters. Always try
and do good, and try to look after the poor
and needy. We must love one another and
try to do all the good we can, each one of
us should invite others to our meetings.”
	Sister E. J. Stevenson was feeling very
weak, she said. “When shall we all meet
again. I feel grateful that I am well
enough to come to this meeting. Sister
Howe came and comforted me. May the
blessing of God rest upon us that we may
always do what is right. I am as thankful
as when the stars shouted for joy that we
have had our ears opened.” Said she had
done all she could helping to redeem the
dead.
	A young lady here feels the Spirit of our
Father, she feels that she would like to go
into the united order. “I rejoice that we
have had a feast of fat things. We must
stand up and speak of the goodness of God.”
	Another sister spoke of the goodness of
our Father, said that she was so happy.
	A sister prayed for all the sisters and
blessed them, and testified to the goodness
of her Heavenly Father.
	Sister Mair: “I am thankful that I be-
long to the Relief Society. Let us move
forward and do all the good we can. I
hope I will prove faithful unto the end.”
	Another sister said, “I rejoice with the
Latter-day Saints, where can you find
better women than here? Since I was
here I have had many testimonies. May
we all be faithful.”
				Sec. pro tem.


NOTES.
	MRS. DANIEL LOTHROP (“Margaret
Sydney”) has gone abroad. She has been
appointed by the National Society Children
of the American Revolution of which she is
the founder and national president, to repre-
sent it at the Paris Exposition, and has also
been appointed a delegate to the Inter-
national Peace Congress to convene in Paris,
September 25 to October 5.
	MRS. VIRGINIA G. SHARP, of Philadel-
phia according to the notes of the New
York Camera Club, is the first artist in
photography to whom has ever been
awarded the honor of having one of her
photographs purchased by the Art Institute
of Chicago, to be displayed among their
permanent collections. This is also the
first instance in the history of the art
institutes of the country where such pic-
tures have been accepted purely as works
of art. Mrs. Sharp has also had the
honor of being invited to contribute a num-
ber of her photographs for exhibition at the
Paris Exposition.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
	LOVE’S BEST.
Love is most sweet at its best.
	Ever tender, thoughtful, true,
Constant and fully expressed,
	With “What can I do for you?”
Under storm or the cloud,
	In any peril or pain,
Its sweetness all ills enshroud,
	As sunshine follows the rain.
Love comes with soothing and rest,
	With healing ready at call,
Earth’s charming, most health-giving guest,
	Turning to sweetness life’s gall.
Give me this love at its best,
	Love that endureth thro’ all;
Love that can bear any test.
	Or ne’er give any at all.
							L. M. H.


PRAY NOW.
When by thy busy tasks oppressed,
	There riseth in thine hour of care,
A whisper “from thy labors rest,
	And lift thy soul to God in prayer,”
Delay not till thy work is done;
	To cross the line that separates,
Earth’s climes from heaven; for they are one;
	In faith pray now, thine angel waits,

Earth’s greatest works, by sea or land,
	Are set to time, from place to place,
And in obedience strictly planned,
	The mighty forces run their race.
But no mischance or accident
	E’er wrecks the course, or e’er belates,
His work or messenger He sent,
	To thee, pray now, thine-angel waits. 

For wasted chance, for faith too slow,
	Life’s harvest yields, but what we earned;
And desolate at last will know
	Where we from waiting blessings turned.
	In weakness, need, or triumph’s hour, 
Though trials crush on joys estate;
	Near us His watchful, loving power;
Fear not, pray now, thine angel waits.
	AUGUST JOYCE CROCHERTON.
a, July 6, 1900.


[Column 1]
WESTEL WILLOUGHBY GREENE.
	The gentleman above named was indeed
one of Nature’s noblemen. He was born
in Watertown, Jefferson County, New
York, August 28, 1819. There in his
native town he founded the “Jefferson
County Nursery,” the first industry of its
kind in that county.
	In his chosen occupation he excelled,
being a lover and student of nature, its
floral kingdom especially. He was noted
also for his strict integrity and prompt at-
tention to business.
	His father, Jacob Greene, was second
cousin to Nathaniel Greene, of Revolution-
ary fame, and brother to John P. Greene,
a prominent character in the early history
of the Latter-day Saints.
	The death of Westel W. Greene occurred
very suddenly at his home in Watertown,
N. Y., on the 8th of last March. The be-
reaved widow, Elizabeth Ingham Greene,
writes to relatives whom she visited here
in Salt Lake City some years ago in com-
pany with her husband. Mrs. Greene tells
of the beautiful life of her husband, so full
of cheery kindness that all who knew him,
children, animals and his floral pets, as
well as men and women, involuntarily
gave out to him the sweetness of love
which his influence ever evoked. Of their
visit to this city, which was in the winter
time, she writes:
	Many times have we talked over our visit with
you, and the kindness we received from all the
good people. He often wished that he could see
all his friends and the beautiful valley in summer.
He would say he wanted to see them all again
more than he ever did before he went there, the
People all seemed so good.

[Column 2]
	Besides the widow Mr. Greene left two
sons and two daughters to mourn his sud-
den departure.
	In concluding her letter, Mrs. Greene
writes:
	Dear cousin, these lines we found in a book in
which he kept some of his most choice writings.
I thought you would like to see them, they are dear
to me it is so like him. 
	Accompanying are the following beauti-
ful lines:
			“When I am dead
I would not have the rude and gaping crowd
Around me gather, and ’mid lamentations loud,
Tell of my virtues and with vain regret,
Bemoan my loss, and leaving me, so soon forget;
But I would have the few, the kindly heart, 
Who when misfortune came so nobly did their
	part,
And oft by thoughtful deed their love express—
These would I have, no more, no less—
			When I am dead!

			“When I am dead
I would not have the high and storied stone
Placed o’er my grave, and then be left alone: 
But I would have some living thing I once did
	love,
Ere I did leave the joyous world above,
Placed o’er me, and in each succeeding year
I’d have my friends renew them and oft linger near,
With loving thoughts upon the dear one laid be-
	low,
And talk of times departed long ago—
			When I am dead! 

			“When I am dead,
Forgive—O, this I pray for more than all—
The anguish I have caused—the deed beyond re-
	call!
Think kindly on me as I lay so cold, so still,
So poor a subject for thine angered ill.
Think of some generous deed, some good word
	spoken,
Of hearts bound up I found so sad and broken:
Think gently, when this last, long rest is mine,
And gaze upon my form with looks benign—
			When I am dead.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular meet
ing in the EXPONENT office, June 30, 1900,
the president in the chair. Opening prayer
by Phebe C. Young. The secretary then
called the roll, members responding with
quotations from Tennyson.
	The 6th of July had been set apart by
the clubs of the city for an outing to the
Lake for the benefit of the Free Kinder-
garten. The president of the club council
being out of town the council had not been
called. The club discussed the best way of
carrying it through successfully. Luella
Rhodes moved and Emma J. McVicker
seconded that the club have an excursion to
the Lake Friday, July 6, and all the mem-
bers do what they could to make it a suc-
cess—carried.
	Luella Rhodes then reported the work
done in the Domestic Science School. The
school opened on the 25th of June, with a
membership of twenty-six.
	The president reported from the Feder-
ation meeting which was held at Mrs.
Plummer’s. Each club member was taxed
ten cents for the Federation to be held next
October.
	Mrs. Hyde, the delegate from the Press
Club to arrange for Field day at the Lake,
asked for instructions from the clnb. It
was decided to hold a special meeting be-
fore then to decide permanently what we
would do.
	The program was then carried out as
follows:
	Emma J. McVicker gave a very com-
prehensive review of the book entitled,

[Column 2]
“Red Pottage,” written by Miss Mary
Cholmondeley. She considered it a finished
work, which is not true of most books.
When the author pictured up, in some
cases vividly, the faults of the different
characters she portrays, she shows the
reader something to admire in them. Mrs.
McVicker considered the time well spent in
reading the book,
	Dr. Pratt read a poem entitled “A
Legend,’’ by Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron,
and Grace Anderson read a poem entitled
“Is Jesus Immortal,” by Mrs. Mary Jane
Tanner.
	On account of Field day being our next,
meeting day the club decided to hold the
next meeting on July 30. The minutes
were read and with a few remarks approved.
Closing prayer by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
			GRACE ANDERSON, Sec.

	At the meeting of the U. W. P. C.,
Monday evening, July 30, the president,
Mrs. Aimiee C. Schiller, being absent,
Honorary President E. B. Wells was called
to the chair by unanimous request. Prayer
was offered by Dr. Romania B. Pratt.
Miscellaneous business was considered,
Field Day being one of the items and Mrs.
Wells by permission made a few remarks
regarding women having suitable repre-
sentation in political matters and on the
State tickets, especially in educational
affairs. She also thought the club should
have current events each month, consider-
ing the present condition of the world.
	Mrs. Rhodes stated that the Press Club
was the only one of the clubs that took any
part in the Domestic Science class recently.
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox read a beautiful poem of
Eliza R. Snow’s. Red Pottage, by Mary
Cholmondley was discussed by the club,
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker opening the dis-
cussion.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde was appointed to
give current events at the meeting in
August. Papers will be given by mem-
bers upon the Chinese situation and
Woman’s International Congresses at the
Paris Exposition.
	Adjourned until August 30. Dismissed
with prayer by Mrs. McVicker.
			RUTH M. FOX, Asst. Sec.


NOTABLE WOMEN,
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET has been re-
elected president of the World’s Woman’s
Temperance Union.
	AMELIA E. BARR is a woman who has
been the mother of fourteen children, has
written thirty-two books, prepared a pro-
fessor for Princeton College, and at three 
score years of age is a superb picture of
vitality—as fresh and sweet of heart as a
young girl.
	MRS. HUGHES—more widely known by
her name used in literary work, Gwyneth
Vaughn—is a talented and energetic
woman whose home is among the northern
hills of Wales. She is a member of the
Woman’s Liberal Federation, a lecturer
for the Suffrage Association and an active
worker in the British Woman’s Temperance
Association. A fluent speaker in both
English and Welsh, she is in the field or at
her desk, by pen and voice helping forward
the human cause. It is said that she has
spoken in every county in Wales. Her
two sons and charming daughter, to whom
she is a devoted mother and comrade, are
allied with her in the good work.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months.
5o cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15 & AUGUST 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
“THE WORLD IS UP IN ARMS.”
	The commotion of the world at the pres-
ent time is almost incredible. Civilization
and enlightenment have reached such high
ground that it is hard to believe that such a
tempest of nations should have set in.
Using a very old fashioned phrase, “The.
whole world is up in arms.”
	Notwithstanding the earnest and strenu-
ous efforts that have been made during the
last few years to bring about settlements of
difficulties by arbitration, there seems to be
a tremendous power brought to bear to
overthrow and break down all barriers that
serve as safeguards to human life and lay
waste the countries and nations in a uni-
versal war, that shall involve all govern-
ments, however exclusive they may have
been heretofore.
	Beginning with Cuba and the war with
Spain, a spirit of war has gathered as it
were, all its forces, to kill and destroy, with-
out mercy, until it is horrible to contem-
plate. And there seems no alternative un-
less a power more potent than the puny
hand of man be brought into requisition to
stay the deadly weapons of warfare and the
terrible grasp of the adversary of peace and
good will in its devastating and downward
course. The torch of liberty, of which
America as a nation has boasted, is not
lighting the world as it should do, and men
are not paving the way for that PEACE chat
surpasseth understanding while their hands
are literally or indirectly imbued in the
blood of their fellowmen.
	No wonder the disciples of Jesus said “In
the last days perilous times shall come and
men’s hearts shall fail them,” and so on, if
nations will persist in making war upon one
another, as they are doing today. How
can those ignorant of God and His laws be
taught the better way, the precepts of the
Savior, “Love thy neighbor,” if educated,
cultured people, who profess to lead the
world in its higher advancement, only fol-
low the same methods of subduing the
powers that oppose as those who have
never known Christ and Him crucified, or
heard of the true plan of salvation preached
and taught by the Savior and His Apostles?
	The Chinese problem may be a very dif-
ficult one to wrestle with, but it cannot
better conditions to kill until every sort of
diplomatic intervention has been tried.
China has great resources of which we at a

[Column 2]
distance know very little; and what will it
avail to send a few thousand brave men to
fall at the hands of her millions, and how
can it be expected to answer the desired end?
	Meantime what can women do who have
reared these brave men who now go out to
battle at the country’s call? It is noble to
defend one’s own country and its honor and
institutions, and yet even then the cause
must be justifiable where blood is to be
shed. Surely it is time now for deep and
earnest thought and every effort should be
put forth to bring about peaceful reconcili-
ation instead of boasting of skill and
strength to compete with other nations. It
is far better to offer heavy rewards for all
foreigners in China delivered alive than to
attempt to cope with their cunning in the
use and manipulation of implements of de-
struction. What avail is the learning of the
whole world if it will not help us to set
better examples of righteousness than those
maintained by force of arms, called into
question every time a difficulty arises?
	And again, meantime women must wait
and watch and pray, and the armies of
women who pray will be more than
the armies of men who slay; and the
Lord will hear and answer their
prayers in His own due time; but as faith
without works is dead they must work
diligently and lay the foundation of such
principles in their sons as shall lead them
to higher and holier purposes in the govern
ment of the world than going to war with
intent to kill. The time is coming, how-
ever far off it may seem at present, when
swords will be beaten into plongh-shares
and spears into pruning hooks. May God
speed the day!!!
	Looking at conditions now it seems use
less to allude to such a time; and yet it is
nevertheless the prophecy of the future by
the greatest men and women—poets, sages,
seers and philosophers; and why should we
not believe in the best for the human race?
Tennyson foresaw it; Isaiah foreshadowed
such a time, and when even the
beasts of the field, the lamb and the
lion, should lie down together. And,
therefore, women need not despair though
all seems dark today as far as peace among
the nations is concerned; yet the silent
forces that are working and the heartfelt
prayers of the tens of thousands
of mothers that are offered daily will reach
the ears of the Omnipotent, and truth and
righteousness will eventually triumph, the
earth will be redeemed and Satan will be
bound.
	But woman will have to do her part in
this work of redemption, and there will be
both wise and foolish virgins, undoubtedly.
It will be the duty of all to study the ques-
tions as presented by the events that tran-
spire from day to day and from time to time
and not be led into error, but walk in the Gos-
pel light and listen to the still small voice
within. More especially should the women
of the Latter-day Saints, who have had
great opportunities of knowing concerning
the future and God’s dealings with the
children of men, study those grave and
serious questions, for where much is given
much is required. Let your light so shine
that others seeing your good works may be
stimulated to follow in your footsteps.


CONTRARY to all preconceived ideas, a
greater number of men than of women,
says the Chicago census enumerators, re-
fused to tell their ages.


AUNT ZINA’S PARTY.
	On Tuesday afternoon, July 26, a num-
ber of sisters met at the residence of Sister
Zina D. H. Young, to show their love and
appreciation of this Mother in Israel, whose
whole life has been such a striking example
of self-sacrifice and devotion to the Gospel
and its work here upon the earth in this
dispensation.
	Sister Zina has truly earned the appella-
tion “Mother in Israel.” The sisters who
were present on the occasion of the gather-
ing mentioned had a most enjoyable time,
although the affair was an informal one,
yet it was a sort of meeting. Sister E. B.
Wells made a few appropriate remarks and
referred with love and admiration to the
many sisters who had been wont to meet
with us on similar occasions who were now
on the other side of the veil, and whose
great nobility of character we cherished
still in memory with fond appreciation.
Prominent among these were Vilate
Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Emma Smith,
Eliza R. Snow, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
and later whom all present would remem-
ber, Phebe Woodruff, Sarah M. Kimball,
Elizabeth Howard and many more whose
names were familiar to the Latter-day
Saints and that we should not allow their
names to be forgotten, for they had helped
lay the foundation for others.
	Sister Wells then suggested that Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith preside. The sisters
sang Sister Eliza’s hymn, “O, my Father,”
Sister Camilla C. Cobb leading and Sister
Minnie J. Snow playing the accompaniment
on the organ. An eloquent prayer which
touched every heart was offered by Sister
Elizabeth Webb, and was followed by the
hymn “God moves in a mysterious way.”
	Sister Zina, in her own sweet, motherly
way, welcomed the sisters to her home and
heart and praised the Lord, as she always
does, for all His blessings to us as a people.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke briefly and
alluded to the sisters whose names had
been mentioned, particularly “Sister
Emma,” with whom she was intimately
acquainted. Sister Zina then paid a loving
tribute to “Sister Emma.”
	Sister Sarah Jane Cannon followed in
a similar strain, referring tenderly to the
experiences of women in this Church and
their wonderful integrity.
	Sisters Margaret Y. Taylor, Hannah C.
Wells, Margaret P. Young, Maria W. Wil-
cox, Mary Alice Lambert, Sarah P. Snow,
Julia C. Howe, Naamah Twiss Young,
Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Emma S. Wood-
ruff and Minnie J. Snow each made excel-
lent and timely remarks, beautiful tributes
to those among whom they had lived in the
family relation, and the great experience
gained by being thus associated. Those
who spoke referred to other sisters, who had
been faithful in all things: Marinda Hyde,
Leonora Taylor, Presendia Kimball and
Sarepta Heywood. The sisters sang
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.”
	Aunt Zina was then blest by all the
sisters uniting their faith, Sister L. L.
Greene Richards being mouth in offering
the prayer.
	Sister Zina then spoke in the gift of
tongues and at the earnest solicitation of
all present gave the interpretation herself.
Afterwards all joined in singing “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow,” and
the little meeting was dismissed by Sister
E. B. Wells.


After the exercises the guests repaired to
the dining room and partook of the good
things provided by one and all of the sisters
assembled. Sister Lambert pronounced
the blessing upon the food. A beautiful 
vase of roses in the centre of the table were
the gift of Sister Woodruff to our beloved
“Aunt Zina.”
	Besides the sisters mentioned as having
taken part in the meeting there were pres-
ent Sisters Lydia Ann Wells, Maria Y.
Dougall, Phebe Y. Beatie, Julia A. Brixen,
Lizzie S. Wilcox Amelia Maeser, Marjorie
McCarty and Elizabeth Langton.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DR. TALMAGE’S NEW BOOK.
	Great Salt Lake Present and Past, is the
title of a book recently issued by the
Deseret News Publishing House.
	The author is Dr. James E. Talmage,
whose scientific knowledge is good author-
ity on many special subjects. His book is
certainly a very complete and comprehen-
sive work of its kind, and the people of
Utah have great reason to be proud of this
description of the lake, which they have
always felt was such a fine resort and
added so much to this intermountain region
because of its differentiation to all the
other lakes in America. To the student of
geology more especially this little work
will apply with greater interest than to
those who only consider it from a general
point of view.
	To one intensely fond of natural beauty
in scenery Salt Lake and its surroundings
is a picture of marvelous attractions morn-
ing, noon or night; in sunshine or in
storm. Its continuous mountain range of
islands and great picturesqueness to the
view, and the variety of birds that live upon
these deserted and seemingly unin-
habited islands play a conspicuous part in
these scenes of solitude: their graceful
flights, their brilliant plumage and the
sound varieties whether of the whirring
of wings or screeching, screaming or
melancholy croaking or cooing—all these
signs of sight or sound accentuate the wild
charm of this “Dead Sea of America” over
and beyond the Jordan.
	Dr. Talmage has conferred a favor on
the State by writing such a book and by
having it illustrated, giving as it does facts
and figures that will be invaluable to
the student of natural or geographical
history, as well as the geologist.
	Dr. Talmage tells the reader not only of
the lake, its beauty and health-giving
properties, but of the process of making
salt which we use daily with our food. The
book contains so much that is food for the
mind that one need not hesitate to recom-
mend it as well worth not only perusal, but
study, and as a book of reference, and in
many respects the book would be an aid in
research valuable to the historian.
	The people of Utah are very proud of
Great Salt Lake, and whatever fields of dis-
covery are open our young men and women
should avail themselves of the knowledge,
and not remain in ignorance of the vast re-
sources of this wonderful, and as yet in
many places unexplored country. We
venture to say there are many things in the
book referred to that will be a surprise to
the student of science and natural history.


THE Jewish Women of Cincinnati furnish
free trolley rides for convalescents among
their sick poor.


[Column 1]
UNVEILING OF PIONEER MONUMENT.
	The final ceremonies of unveiling the
pioneer monument, as completed, with the
three added figures, the Indian the trapper
and pioneer group, took place July 24, at
10:30 a. m. Seats had been arranged in-
side the iron railing for speakers and dis-
tinguished guests, and the public filled the
street roundabout and occupied all the
available space in the windows and porches
of buildings near by. The Brigham Young
Memorial Association had charge of the
exercises, (Hon. James Sharp president)
which were mostly of a reminiscent char-
acter. At 9:30 Held’s Military band
stationed near the monument opened
the exercises with some of the old familiar
airs appropriate to the occasion, in com-
memorating the founding of the State.
President George Q. Cannon made the ad-
dress of the day.
	He said “that being one of the pioneers
who came here in 1847, many reminiscen-
ces crowded his mind and he could not
help drawing contrasts between conditions
now and those existing here fifty-three
years ago. While some people cannot or
will not acknowledge that Brigham Young
was an inspired man and a prophet of God,
all will concede the fact that he was a
great man and a strong leader of men.
When the Pioneers first looked into this
valley all was desolation: the courses of
the streams running into the valley being
marked by willows, the only green to be
seen. When Brigham Young saw the
valley he declared it to be the stopping
place of the pilgrims, and this in the face
of assertions of trappers and hunters that
it would be impossible for a community to
live here. He sent exploring parties to
the south and to the north to investigate
the country and all returned declaring that
the decision of Brigham Young was a wise
one. The people suffered almost untold
hardships during the first years of life in
this valley when the elements were more
inclement than now. They suffered the
pangs of hunger in their most extreme dis-
tress. Once a week in my uncle’s house,
where I lived, said the speaker, we would
weigh out our provisions in the family and
then eke them out for the week. Our
rations were very short, we did not have
enough to eat; we were hungry, very
hungry—hungry to the ends of our fingers;
hungry to the ends of our toes; always
hungry—one good meal would not suffice
to satisfy us, our hunger was so great.
We cut thistle tops to eat and I never
tasted such “greens” in my life. I
actually began to get fat on thistle tops.
Even boiled hides were eaten by the peo-
ple, and even after the grain had been
planted and began to grow, giving promise
of a bread supply, the crickets came and
swept it all away and added more hard-
ships to those already endured by the set-
tlers.
	“When gold was first discovered in
California, Brigham Young advised the
people to remain here and cultivate the
land, promising them that they should
be prospered if they did so. And while it
has been charged against Brigham Young
that he discouraged the development of the
mineral industries of Utah, the sequel
proved that his advice was wise, for by re-
maining at home and producing food the
people placed themselves beyond the dan-
ger of a shortage of food supplies and put
them in a position to pursue the search for

[Column 2]
gold and silver without jeopardizing the
lives of their families by lack of something
to sustain life.
	“I am not much of a believer in monu-
ments, for I think that men and their good
deeds should live in memory; but this
present monument is a very proper one.
The story of the pilgrimage of the Pioneers
and their settlement here should be told
and retold to our children in order that
they may know of the heroic deeds done by
their forefathers.”
	Hon. James T. Hammond said that he
did not believe in the worship of a monu-
ment, but thought the accomplishment
which it represented was the thing to be
revered. Mr. Hammond reviewed the his-
tory of the erection of the monument and
the life of the sculptor, Mr. C. E. Dallin,
and introduced that gentleman, who said:
	“Friends, it is some twenty years since
I turned my face eastward toward the un-
known land of my hopes and aspirations,
and as one who has visited strange lands
and seen many sights, I return to the font
where I first drank the life-giving waters 
of pure inspiration. To those who are
born and reared amid these circling hills
have little need to tell what a potent
spell they have, and as whatever little I
have done has been directly tracable to
their influence, you can well understand
how they are intimately connected with
the most sacred part of my being. To the
mighty forms of sculptural beauty and the 
ever changing lights and shades of the
peaks my mind was ever atuned and as the
history of sculpture plainly shows, sculp-
tors have ever been reared amid the
mountains. These silent formative  in-
fluences are even deeper and more lasting
than we realize, and to you who have the
privilege of this silent communion of the
hills your spirits must ever be awake to
the beauty and poetry that daily speak to
you from the mighty heights.
	“Art of every kind is simply the realiza-
tion that beauty lies around us on every
hand, and the artist is only he who pos-
sibly realizes more fully this truth, and he
only becomes an artist in trying to reveal
this truth to his fellow man. Art to the
many is considered a luxury or an accom-
plishment, whereas in truth it is one of the
most necessary functions of a well ordered.
life, and to deprive man of this means of
expression would plunge him into a bar- 
barism from which there would be no hope
of ever rescuing him.
	“The monument as it now stands is an
attempt to depict the early history and
condition of Utah, and with the exception
of Brigham Young, the statues are repre-
sentative. Thus the Indian represents the
early condition that prevailed in this valley
before the advent of the whites, and the
trapper represents the first white man that
ever penetrated the wilderness. The
Pioneer group represents the hardy, in-
domitable family that first made their home
in the wilderness, and from them sprang
the first civilization of the great West.”
THE UNVEILING. 
	It was just 10:58 a. m. when a trumpet
call was sounded and the veil of banners
was loosened and fell from around the
monument disclosing the new bronze
figures, while the band played “America,”
Then there were cheers and the crowd
surged about the monument to view the
figures that finished the monument to the
Pioneers and their brave deeds.


Miss Margaret Young, a daughter of
Major R. W. Young, and a great grand-
daughter of Brigham Young, drew the
cord that released the veiling.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPAY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
	William Bates, my father, was of English 
descent. He married one Elizabeth Jeffries
in 1816, and settled in a small town called
Sandy, in Bedfordshire, England.
	The house in which I was born was a
small concrete building which stood near
the St. Ives river, facing the west. There
was one door and a window in the front, a
door and a window in the back. On the
first floor were three rooms, one large room
and two small pantries while on the second
floor were but two, one large room and a
large closet. The thatched root, the picket
fence painted blue and the little flower gar-
den in which I used to spend a few spare
moments, hold a cherished spot in my mem-
ory. A few years ago the rosemary trees I
planted in my youth were still growing.
	In the meadows, outside the fence, was a
lovely place, where I and my sister and my
brothers whiled away our childhood hours
running in the grass, and in the shade of
the old willows.
	I was born July 6, 1826, being the third
child of my parents, the others names were
Ann, William Jeffries, and John Richard.
	My father and mother belonged to the
laboring class. We, as children, were
brought up in a country village. My
mother was of a religious turn of mind, and
from my earliest recollection she taught us
to read the Bible; and as I advanced in
years I took great pleasure in reading that
book. I used to go miles to hear different
denominations preach what they called the
Gospel. I would listen with the utmost
interest to them, but used to take great
pleasure in listening to a sect called in
England Calvinists. Many times I
have walked over seven miles with my
mother on Sunday to hear them preach,
before I was twelve years old. One day I
was listening to one of their speakers. In
his discourse he said “that little children
who were not born of parents who were
elected were crawling over hell like frogs
and toads.” Yonng as I was it struck ter-
ror to my soul; and I began to think if it
were possible that God was so unjust that
He would consign little children to such
endless misery, I could not find any such
doctrine in the Bible, and from that time to
this I have never listened to any more of
that doctrine.
	About that time, I remember, there were
to be some races in a place about three
miles from where we lived. I had a great
desire to go, but my mother told me I could
not go, she said she would take me to the hill
so I could see the people pass, there I could
help her gather fir apples. I went with
her, but took no pleasure in looking at the
passing people nor in gathering the fir
apples. I went off some distance from my
mother and sat down and cried bitterly. I
closed my eyes to everything around me,
but all at once spoke these words as plainly
as ever words were spoken: “When dan-
gers thick around you stand, and you are
beset on every hand, the Lord will be
your friend, in Him put all your trust.”
From that moment I dried my tears and
forgot all my troubles; from that time I
tried to pray for myself. I had been
taught a prayer, but that no longer satisfied
me; for I had been taught that God was a

[Column 2]
being without body, parts or passions, and I
did not know what to do. For that reason
went from one sect to another. I could
not accept the Calvinistic doctrine of elec-
tion, and I knew that my parents did not
believe it, At last I went to a Methodist
Sunday School. I then thought their re-
ligion was more liberal than any other.
When I was thirteen years old I dreamed
one night that I was standing on a hill
looking toward the west, and I saw the
world on fire, and as I stood looking I saw 
a personage coming toward me. I stood
still until it came to me and then it said:

	No ill shall enter where you dwell,
		And if the plague come nigh,
	’Twill sweep the wicked down to hell,
		And bear the Saints on high.

	This seemed strange to me, for at this
time I had not heard anything of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	I never had the privilege of going to
school to learn to read or write, but I did
go to sewing school until I was fourteen
years old then I started to do fine needle work
for a lady by the name of Pym. She sup-
ported a school and gave me a chance to go,
but mother could not spare me, so for the
common schooling I had practically none
in my childhood.
	I became very much attached to the
Methodist belief, and wished to become a
member of their church, but my mother
objected. One night I thought I would go
and join a class but that night I took very
sick and could not go. After that I did not
go to their church.
	The lady for whom I had been sewing
asked me to come ard join the choir in
what is called the Church of England. I
still continued going there for
some time to please my mother,
for she did not like the Methodists, and did
not want us to go to their church, but that
seemed hard for me.
	I continued to go to the Church of England
until the fall of 1841. At that time I
chanced to hear Apostle P. P. Pratt and
Elder John Snider. They had come to
England preaching in the interest of the
Nauvoo Temple.
	On the thirteenth of October of that year,
while on my way home from my work in
the Hazel Hall, as that was the name of
the mansion where I was working, I was
taken with a severe pain in my side, and it
was with much difficulty that I reached my
home. I had a mile to walk through a
park covered with trees and shrubs. After
left the park gate it was a lonely road the
rest of the way home. The pain in my
side was so severe I felt that I could never
reach home. From that day I did not set
foot outside the door for about two months,
for I was taken down, with the typhus fever
and was very low for some time.
	One night, as I lay very sick, I dreamed
that my spirit left my body, I saw my body
very plainly. Then I went and watched
the sexton dig my grave and then returned
to the house where my body lay in the cof-
fin, and watched the men take it on their
shoulders. I thought I walked backward
all the way to the cemetery, for I was afraid
they would not carry my body straight. I
thought I walked above the ground, and
knew everybody just as I had known them
in life. From that time I thought that my
time had about come to leave this earth; but
had no fear of death, as I realized that all
must die sooner or later. I told my poor
mother and she felt very bad for some time.

[Column 3]
After several weeks the doctor said the
danger point had passed, and things seemed
a little brighter. No one but my mother
was allowed to see me for weeks. The
lady I had sewed for used to send every
evening to inquire about my condition, and
one time she sent me a great treat, that
was a quart of pure new milk. In England
pure new milk was hard to buy.
	In September, 1841, my sister, Ann
Smith, and her husband joined the Mor-
mon Church, and on Christmas day had
decided to give a party to the Latter-day
Saints and Elders together. They were
in good circumstances and things were
arranged. On Christmas day my brother-
in-law came over to our house with a
horse and cart, and plenty of wraps
to take me to their home. Mother was
afraid for me to go, for it was about five
miles, but the weather was unusually fine,
and finally mother consented, or I should
not have gone. They wrapped me up in
quilts and carried me to the cart. I was
very thankful to once more have the privi-
lege of getting out in the fresh air, and to
see something new, and I almost forgot my
sickness.
		(To be continued.)


OBITUARY.

To the memory of Sister Violet Ivie, who de- 
	parted this life. May 25, 1900.

	Whereas, in the dispensation of Providence God
has seen fit to call home one of his daughters who
has labored long in the Relief Society cause, not
alone of Richfield, but having been for fifteen
years secretary and afterwards president of the
Vermillion ward, until her removal to Richfield,
she having been a faithful member of our Society
and also leader of our singing.
	Whereas, she proved herself a hard worker and
a faithful member, ever ready to do good, and she
was one whose kindness and generosity of spirit
brought sunshine into many hearts, helped the
needy in time of want and was in herself a fitting
embodiment of her constant prayers that she might
be humble and united with all that is good; there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That we her sisters of the Relief
Society of Richfield do deeply feel her loss, never-
theless in this our loss we feel to bow to the man-
dates of an Alwise Creator who doeth all things
well.
ANOTHER PIONEER GONE.
	Sister Thirza Melvina Thurber departed from
this life May 9, 1900, after a severe illness of about
one month’s duration. Sister Thirza was born
December 23, 1836, at Dresden, Wheaton Co.,
Tennessee. She was the daughter of Jesse and
Amelia Berry. She came to Utah in 1849 and
married Albert K. Thurber February 26, 1851.
After their marriage they resided at Cottonwood
about one year when they moved to Spanish Fork
and lived there until the fall of 1874, when they
were called to Richfield, where they have since
resided. She was the mother of eleven children,
eight of whom survive her. All were present at
the funeral except A. D. Thurber, who resides in
Mexico.
	At the organization of the Stake presidency of
the Relief Society of Sevier. May 25, 1879, she
was chosen as first counselor to Sister E B. Bean,
which position she filled with untiring zeal, ever
ready to do what was required of her in that posi-
tion for nearly twenty years. She was also a faith-
ful worker in the Richfield ward society; therefore
be it
	Resolved, That in her death we, the members
of the Richfield Relief Society, recognize the loss
of a faithful coworker.
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved children who have been deprived of a
devoted, faithful and tender mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
published in the Woman’s Exponent, a copy be
placed on the record of our Society and a copy be
presented to the family.
						HENRIETTA WRIGHT,
						HANNAH M. OGDEN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
MARICOPA STAKE.
	Report of the Relief Society conference of
the Maricopa Stake, held June 14, 1900,
opened with the usual exercises. Present
of the brethren were Stake President Collins
R. Hakes and Counselor H. C. Rogers, also
Ward Sunday School Superintendent George
T. Wilson. Four Stake officers of the Relief
Society were present and six ward officers.
Four out of the six wards were reported
favorably, though there had been much
sickness and some deaths in the Lamanite
ward since last conference. The sisters of
the Relief Society of that ward have had
work to perform in taking care of the sick
and laying out and dressing the dead, but
by being humble they are blessed.
	President Mabel A. Hakes had been to
Salt Lake to General Conference to repre-
sent our Stake since our last conference,
and was glad she could do so favorably.
The subjects spoken upon were storing
grain, or as we have to do, canning it, on
account of so many insects in this country,
following after the fashions of the world,
unity, charity and example, etc., all tend-
ing to strengthen and encourage the sisters
in well-doing, making this one of the best
conferences we have ever had.
			ANNA E. FULLER, Sec.
CASSIA STAKE.
	Minutes of the conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake, convened at Elba,
June 22, 1900, President Louisa Haight
presiding. Present Counselor Ann Wilson,
various ward presidents, also Stake presi-
dent William T. Jack and counselors.
	Conference opened by the choir singing
“O Lord, our Father, let Thy grace.”
Prayer by Brother Wells Hess.
	President Louisa Haight felt pleased to
meet with the brethren and sisters of Elba,
had a love for the people and was glad to
visit here.
	Minutes of previous conference read and
accepted. Reports were given by Relief
Society presidents of various wards. Re-
ports showing many of the sisters were
energetic and faithful, while others were
dilatory; also that the sisters of Oakley had
a Relief Society house nearly completed.
She loved to labor with her sisters in this
work of love and grandeur.
	Counselor Ann Wilson advised the
mothers to teach their children the com-
mandments of God
	President William T. Jack spoke on the
influence of mothers in the home and with
her family, and the necessity of her attend-
ing to spiritual duties, so she will be fully
prepared for duties and responsibilities of
the home. Sisters should use their in-
fluence for good, both at home and abroad.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. The
choir sang “Prayer is the soul’s sincere
desire.” Prayer by Bishop Thomas Taylor.
Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
the choir singing “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Prayer by Brother William F.
Brim. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.”
	President John L. Smith spoke on the
duty of teachers, we should go with the
Spirit of God and teach the principles of the
Gospel.
	Sister Rosabell A. Brim exhorted all to
improve every opportunity to learn the
principles of the Gospel.
	President William T. Harper said if we

[Column 2]
learn to do the will of the Lord it will lead
us to do good and be brave in the work.
We should set a good example before our
children and those around us. We can not
do too much good to lead mankind aright
and teach them aright and teach them the
Gospel.
	Sister King said it is for mothers to lay a
good foundation in their children, and in-
stil into their minds that which is right.
	President Louisa Haight spoke regarding
each society celebrating the 17th of March,
and each member giving ten cents and the
same be forwarded to the Central Board,
then we may have some of the presiding
sisters visit us. Spoke of having aids to
the Stake presidency. As aids Sister King,
of Almo, and Sister Cynthia Ward, of Elba,
were chosen and unanimously sustained.
	General and Stake authorities were pre-
sented and sustained by the conference.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Congregation sang “The Spirit of God.”
Benediction was pronounced by Bishop
Thomas King.
		LUCYNTHIA ROBBINS, Sec.
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Bear Lake Stake, held in St. Charles,
July 1, 1900.
	Our officers meeting was held in the
school house, commencing at 10 a. m.
President Julia P. Lindsay called the meet-
ing to order. Of the Stake officers present
there were Counselor L. M. Hart, Mary
Bagley, and Amelia Hoge, Stake aid.
	Hymn. Prayer by Bishop Kutch. Hymn.
Roll called, eleven Officers of the several
branches present. Minutes of the previous
conference lead and approved.
	The following branches of the society
were reported: St. Charles, president First
ward; Fish Haven, president Second, ward;
Garden City, Ovid, North Liberty, Bloom-
ington, Liberty, Bennington, Montpelier
and Wardboro.
	President Lindsay congratulated the
presidents on the success each branch was
making. Desired to impress upon the sisters
the necessity of taking proper care of their
grain. This mission is no less important
now than when given to us by President
Young many years ago.
	Remarks were made by President James
H. Hart, Counselor L. M. Hart and Sister
Amelia Hoge. Subjects of importance were
touched upon by the speakers. Members
of the Relief Society were encouraged to
continue in the noble work. The teachers
should be regular in their visits that the
sisters may be strengthened and encouraged
to labor in the accomplishment of the noble
purpose for which the Relief Society was
organized.
	Several questions were asked which were
answered by Stake officers to the satisfac-
tion of the inquirers.
	After singing, benediction was offered by
Elder Quinton.
	Afternoon session of conference, was held
in the meeting house, commencing at 2 p.
m., meeting called to order by President
Lindsay. Singing by the choir. Prayer
offered by Bishop Philemon Lindsay. Sing-
ing, “O, my Father.” Sacrament admin-
istered. While the bread and water was
being partaken of, the choir sang “Ye chil-
dren of our God.”
	President Lindsay said she had much
pleasure in meeting in conference, had
never yet performed a duty without receiv-

[Column 3]
ing blessings. Spoke at some length on
the great blessings we enjoy in this goodly
land, and of the promises made he sisters
by the Prophet Joseph, if they would bs
faithful. It is no light matter to neglect
our meetings after having our names en-
rolled, for we then covenant to uphold that
organization. We should economize our
time, that we may devote a portion of it to
spiritual culture..
	Counselor Mary Bagley expressed her
gratitude for being permitted to live in this
important day. Testified of the goodness
of God unto her, of being healed by His
power and of the many blessings received
through being a member of the Relief
Society.
	Elder Alfred Osmond esteemed it a great
honor to address the sisters on this occasion.
It requires constant effort for us to perform
the duties required of us. Much has
been accomplished through the Gospel; had
it not been for this, probably many of those
intelligent men of olden times, such as Paul
and others, would never have been known.
Spoke at some length on the advancement
woman is making, she has been and is to-
day by many looked upon as inferior to
man. Woman can accomplish a great
amount of good in spheres where man can
do but little, she has a mission here on earth
which no one else can fill.
	President James H. Hart said those who
commenced this great work in which we
are engaged had a hard road to travel.
Spoke of the necessity of our striving to
overcome our evil passions and subjecting
ourselves to the will of God.
	President N. E. Pregmire, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., spoke a short time. Felt proud
of the Gospel, more so than of anything
else. There is a great responsibility resting
upon the mothers, greater than many
realize.
	President Lindsay made a few closing re-
marks, the choir sang “Thy God
Reigneth” and benediction was pronounced
by Elder John Bagley.
		NANCY H ALLRED, Stake Sec. 
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of the St. Joseph Stake was held at
Pima, Arizona, June 22, 1900, commencing
at 10 a. m., President Elizabeth Layton
presiding. After singing by the congre-
gation and prayer by Bishop James Cluff,
of Central, the officers’ roll was called,
showing an attendance of seventeen.
Minutes of the conference held December
17, 1899, read and approved.
	President Layton made opening remarks
in which she expressed her appreciation of
the attendance of brethren and sisters; urged
the presidents to see to it that their secre-
taries were alive to their duty, and por-
trayed the importance of each report being
correct.
	Verbal reports were heard from the Lay-
ton and Thatcher branches, showing that
the members were alive to their duties,
were storing grain and sending missionaries
monthly to the Y. L. and Primary Associa- 
tions.
	Stake Aid Elizabeth Moody felt that we
were greatly blessed by having our grain
and fruit farms matured. Spoke to the sis-
ters about drying and canning fruit and
making it secure from moth that it might
be kept for a time of scarcity. The prophets
have declared that famine would come and
their words will not fail. If we live pure,


[Column 1]
holy lives we will be preserved when the
judgments of the Lord are poured out upon 
the wicked.
	The Central ward was reported as having
missed some meetings during the last
quarter on account of the president and
several of the members attending Dr. 
Shipp’s class in obstetrics, but aside from
that they were progressing nicely, although
but few in number,
	The Graham society had had some little
misfortune with their wheat, but had tried
to make the best of it; had adopted the plan
of lecturing in their testimony meetings, 
and find it very good.
	Bishop John Taylor, of Pima, testified 
that water was scarcer than it had ever
been before in this valley, that some of the
grain had not been irrigated for three
months before harvest, yet notwithstanding
this fact we had an average good crop, in
many instances better than when water was
plentiful; he felt to give God the praise.
Urged the sisters to be diligent in paying
their tithing, and asked the blessing of the
Lord upon them.
	The Bryce and Pima branches were re-
ported by their respective presidents as
being in a thriving condition.
	Stake Aid Mary Taylor realized that
through the Relief Society a grest deal of
suffering was averted. We should prepare
ourselves for the events that await us. Said
it is not our mission to tear each other
down, but assist in building up.
	President William Johnson thought the
sisters have as great a labor to perform as
do the brethren, therefore it is just as neces-
sary that the sisters be diligent and faithful
in the performance of their duties as [--]ose
who hold the priesthood. Said the Relief
Society is the greatest aid that a Bishop can
have It is no time to slacken our efforts.
The signs of the times indicate the coming
of the Savior, therefore let us listen to and
obey the commandments of the Lord.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Singing, “Know this, that every soul is
free.” Prayer by James McBride, senior.
	At 2 p. m. conference met according to
adjournment. Singing “Our God we raise
to Thee.” Prayer by Bishop John Taylor.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
	President Olive Larson, of Mathewsville,
reported their society as flourishing.
	Stake Counselor Adelia Curtis advised
the sisters to study the articles of organiz-
ation. Be generous and charitable towards
each other and perform our every duty.
	The Eden society was reported as doing
well considering their scattered condition
and few members.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
by the secretary, Salina Phillips, who also
reported her visit to the last annual confer- 
ence in Salt Lake.
	Treasurer Maggie Allred read the
treasurer’s report for the six mouths past
and bore testimony to the divinity of the
work.
	Bishop Cluff said the Relief Society is
doing a great work. Asked the spirit of

[Column 2]
God to rest on all, that we might realize
the responsibility resting upon us.
	Rhoda Foster bore her testimony to the
goodness of God to her, said if we are liv-
ing in the line of our duty we can judge
between right and wrong.
	Stake President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Laura Nuttall wished to be obedient to
every call. The duties of Relief Society
members are many and varied; the success
of the society depends on the members.
	President Layton was gratified with the
reports of the different branches, also the
remarks of the previous speakers. Urged
the sisters to subscribe for the EXPONENT,
that they might keep pace with similar
organizations. Spoke of the annual dona-
tion, requested the secretaries to record their
reports and not trust alone to preserving
the blanks.
	Congregation sang “Lord dismiss us”
and benediction was pronounced by
William Johnson.
			SARAH WEBB, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US.

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p. m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St. 
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 663.
						H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	[illegible line]
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
No. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,	D. E. BURLEY
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTION.
	The grand educational work which
Alexis E. Frye is doing in Cuba calls for
the hearty endorsement of all patriotic
Americans, and in view of the fact that
Mr. Frye brings to this country 1,450 Cuban
teachers to receive instruction at Harvard
University during the summer of 1900, and
is planning to visit some of our principal
cities as an object lesson to demonstrate
what has been accomplished in a free re-
public, and for the purpose of revealing to
these teachers our own people in their
homes and in their daily life, it is there-
fore,
	Resolved, That the General Society 
Daughters of the Revolution, in conven-
tion assembled, recognizing the great value
of the work which Mr. Alexis S. Frye has
undertaken in such a patriotic spirit, de-
sires to place on record its deep appreci-
ation of such service and the true and
noble aims it represents; and it is further
	Resolved, that a copy of this resolution
be engrossed and transmitted to Mr. Frye,
after being duly signed by the officers of
the General Society.
	In presenting the resolution Miss Hunt
said:
	This movement of Mr. Frye’s has a
deeper and broader significance than the
educational so far as what Harvard can
and will do. It means that our own peo-
ple will have a deeper appreciation of the
patriotism of the Fathers of the Republic;
that the sacredness of liberty will receive
renewed recognition; that the blessings of
a free government “by the people” will
become apparent in greater degree, and as
the sacred pledge of our country is to be
kept, let us endeavor, as descendants of
patriots, to inspire our Cuban friends with
the same spirit which animated our
ancestors.
		GENERAL SOCIETY D. R.


Kanab Relief Society
Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 29.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15 & SEPTEMBER 1, 1900.	Nos. 6 & 7


CONTENTS.
News of Women . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	25
Discernment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Little Sister	25
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton . . . . . .	25
A Brave Woman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	26
Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	26
A Woman Missionary . Mrs. Addison Pratt	27
In Memoriam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	29
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . L. L. G. R	30
R. S. Reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	31
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	31
Wayne Stake. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	31
Mrs. Roosevelt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	32
EDITORIAL—War, Famine, Destruction and
	Danger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	28
	A Word to Women . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	29
POETRY—The Warrior’s Death . . . . . . . .	25
A Thread of Thought . . . L. L. G. Richards	27


THE WARRIOR’S DEATH,
“What is his bridge to heaven?” they cried,
	And the warriors held their breath,
As the grizzled king of a hundred fights.
	Went down to the river of death.

“What is his bridge to heaven?” they cried,
	Is it bastioned with buckles and spears,
And girded strong with the iron blades
	Of the battles of bygone years?

“And what are the voices he hears in his dreams?
	Are they the clamors of fight,
Or the echoes of splendid victories that come,
	As he stands by the river at night?”

“Nay, nay,” and they stand by in wonder and
		awe
	For all that he builds on there
Are a withered blossom, a baby’s shoe,
	And a lock of a woman’s hair.

And the only voices he hears in his dreams,
	As the world dies out in his ears,
Are an old love-ballad, a baby’s laugh,
	And the sob of a dead wife’s tears.
					Pearson’s Magazine.


NEWS OF WOMEN.
	MME. PEGARD has jest been named by
the French government chevalier in the
Legion of Honor. To this able and ener-
getic woman is due the woman’s palace at
the Exposition and on the occasion of the
inauguration of this building the decoration
has been conferred. Among thousands of
men, this makes but the forty-seventh
feminine member raised to this grade since
the order was instituted a hundred years
ago. Nearly all the appointments are
recent, and have been made under the re-
public.
	HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS was so well re-
ceived at the International Congress of 
Women at the Paris Exposition, that Mrs.
L. H. Larned, of Syracuse, president of the
National Household Economic Association,
who presented the subject, has been in-
vited to visit Germany, Holland, England
and Scotland, to tell women in these
countries more about it. Mrs. Larned has
accepted the invitation and is now travel-
ing through these countries sowing, as she
journeys, household economic seed. Her
report at the autumn annual meeting of the
association will be of special interest.
Plans for this meeting, which will be held
in Toronto, October 2, 3 and 4; are being
completed. The invitation to convene at
that place was extended by the mayor and
council of the city, and the Household
Economic Association of Canada.


[Column 1]
DISCERNMENT.
	John said in one of his epistles, “Beloved
believe not every spirit, but try the spirits
whether they are of God.” In this same
epistle of the twelve disciples we read much
of love and is not the world to be redeemed
by love? How could our missionaries en-
dure? How could they be successful if it
were not for the love of the souls they go to
redeem?
	When I belonged to a certain faction of
Mormons, I heard many sermons on author-
ity. I used to get tired, it seemed like a
sing-song, almost, to me sometimes, and
though I could not have gone back to
Methodism any more than I could have
been contented after using the gas light, to
read by the light of a candle, yet some-
times I used to think it would be a change
to hear a sermon on the love and example
of Christ. The spirit within me did not
seem to testify as to the truth of that part
of the doctrine. I received that faction
just as I would a higher class of sectarians;
a class who possessed a greater light be-
stowed upon them by our beloved
prophet, Joseph Smith. I have asked the
question sometimes, “Was it not because
they themselves had usurped the authority?”
	Sometimes when I would think of it, it
would remind me of what a sister who be-
longed to this faction told me. Her father
had been a coal miner. They were good
people, noble souls, but had been taught
wrong principles. She told me that her
father was a very high tempered man and
had always insisted on convincing his fam-
ly that he was the head of his house, and
the method he used was by knocking them
down with his fist whenever they differed
with him. Many of the people of this work
possess in a measure the discernment of
spirits. They judge us by our works they
judge the tree by its fruits, and did not
Jesus say, so we read in John 13th chapter
35th verse: “By this shall all men know
that ye are my disciples, if ye love one to
another.”
	I have heard some people say of certain
persons, “such a one is such a gentle spirit,
it seems impossible for him to do wrong.”
And it will be impossible for him while he
keeps the love of God within him. We
know by experience that certain spirits
follow certain spirits to try to overcome
them. A man or woman who speaks out
all he or she feels, regardless of how he
or she hurts or wounds, is far happier, I
think, than the one who treasures hard
feelings for want of courage or the desire
to make things right. Before we sought
after a reconciliation between us and our
heavenly Father; before we sought a change
of heart, if any one wounded us, though
we did not treasure malice, yet we pre-
ferred those who did would take a different
course, we preferred to have nothing more
to do with them, but after enjoying the
love of God we feel that we should en-
courage a forgiving spirit, for “to err is
human, to forgive divine.” If a gentle spirit
is converted and has not experienced a
change of heart, it is possible if hardness of
heart possesses them that if they do not get

[Column 2]
the spirit of forgiveness, it is possible that
hatred and revenge may overcome them.
Hatred if nursed may bring out imagina-
tions that look something worse than vipers.
it is not heaven to live with a person who
is not willing to make things right by
improving their faults or getting rid of their
wrong feelings.
	How necessary it is that we possess the
love of God in our souls. “Do not let the
sun go down upon your wrath,” we read
in Eph., 4th chapter and 26th verse. Let
love reign in your hearts. Mothers, do
not let the spirit of revenge nestle in your
bosoms, if you do your child may bear the
marks of that weakness. Let the words of
our Savior ring in our ears and live in our
bosoms, “Little children love one another.”
				LITTLE SISTER.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
			[Continued.]
	It was about noon when we arrived at
their home. Some of the guests had arrived
when we got there. Soon a gentleman
came into the room where I was sitting. He
looked at me and then turned to my sister
who was just coming in and said, “Is this
your sister?” to which she answered “Yes.”
“Then,” he said, “We shall very soon
have her in our ranks. I can see the blood
of Joseph rushing through her veins.”
	I was filled with anger, and in a moment
I said, “I know you never will.” He was
a stranger to me; in fact they all were. I
set my mind firmly against them and all
they could say. They were very kind to
me; some of them tried to tell me about the
Gospel; some bore a faithful testimony;
they sang beautiful hymns, some I had
learned from the Wesleyan hymn book. But
the more they tried to attract my attention
the harder I felt towards them. After the
close of the party they asked me how I
had enjoyed myself, and I told them it had
been the most unhappy day of my life.
Some of them said they would pray for me,
but I told them I did not want any of their
prayers in my behalf, and that they had
better ask the Lord to open their eyes to
see their delusion. I was a mere child,
but I knew what they said was Bible doc-
trine, for I had read that time and time
again. I sincerely believed they were the
false prophets that the Bible said would
come in the last days. I hardened my heart
against all they said and wept to think I
had fallen into such a snare.
	The next morning I asked my sister for
some writing material as I wished to write
to my mother and have her come and bring
me home. The letter was written but my
mother never received it, I do not know
what became of it. I could not walk around
for I was so weak, and I was so sorrowful
that I did not even pray as I used to. I
kept in that mood until the Wednesday fol-
lowing Christmas. My sister and her hus-
band appeared very happy and were very
kind to me.
	After they had retired I thought I would
pray and ask the Lord to show me through
His spirit if I were doing right in en-
couraging such a bad feeling. I had prayed


[Column 1]
many times and asked the Lord to tell
me what I should do, and I had faith He
would do so again. I wanted to serve Him
but did not know how. I loved the
Wesleyans but my mother would not
allow me to join their class, and I always
thought they were the most liberal in their
views of any of the religious sects I knew
about. I said nothing to my sister nor any
one else, but poured out my soul to my
Heavenly Father, with full assurance that
He would answer me. I shall never forget
how very different everything those people
had said looked to me. I was in a room
alone most of the time and I prayed earnest-
ly unto the Lord to show me if I had erred
in my thoughts or actions.
	The next night I shall never forget. I
went to bed and the struggle I had with
the destroyer I shall never forget, neither
can I ever describe; but the angel of the
Lord stood by me all that night, and when
morning came I was very much distressed.
I realized there were two powers: the power
of God and the power of Satan.
	The Elders all left my sister’s place im-
mediately after Christmas. On Friday, the
last day of the year. I prayed sincerely to
the Lord that if the Latter-day Saints were
right He would inspire some one of the
Elders to come and I would be baptized.
From that time I began to think that I
would give everything to be a member of
that Church. I never told even my sister 
about what I had done, nor through what I
had passed. It was an ordeal that I can
never forget, but the Lord heard my prayer.
	New Year’s morning came, and shortly
after I arose. I sat alone in the parlor and 
heard a rap at the door. I listened very
attentively to see who it was. My sister
went to the door, and was very much sur-
prised, for there stood the Elder who one 
week before had said that I would soon be-
long to their ranks. My sister had called
him by name and asked what had brought
him back, but he answered that he did not
know. He then asked if her sister were
still there? She told him that I was, and
asked him to come in and see me. He
came in and sat down and commenced to
talk to me. I was ashamed to talk to him
for the manner I had talked to him one
week before. He looked at me a moment
and then said: “Are you ready to be bap-
tized?” That word spoke volumes to my
soul. I answered “Yes.” He then said,
“I know now why the spirit of the Lord
inspired me to come here.”
	He sat down and taught me many things
concerning the Gospel. That was the first
time I had ever listened to the first principles
of the Gospel. The more I heard, the more
I felt thankful to my Heavenly Father for
sparing my life to hear and obey the truth.
	That night was very cold and foggy, but
I did not fear the cold nor did I think of my
weakness. Two of my friends led me to
the water and the Elder baptized me in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ. I walked
out of the water a well person, and the joy
I felt that night I shall never forget. My
soul was full of peace and love. I asked
my folks to forgive me for being so mean as
I was but one week before. My sister was
very much pleased when she found out my
intention, for I had not spoken a word to
her about it until after I had told the Elder
I was ready to be baptized. This was
January 1, 1842.
	The next day was Sunday, and we all
fasted until after sundown. I did not have

[Column 2]
anything but my new religion, that seemed
all I needed. I had read the Bible from
beginning to end, and now the Lord opened
my understanding. I saw things so differ-
ent to what they seemed before, I was not
afraid, nor did I care who knew I was a
Mormon.
	I remained with my sister until the 8th,
then I walked home, two weeks and one
day from the time when I was taken away
in bed. I expected to find my mother and
father and friends surprised, and thankful
to see me well once more, but I was the
one to be surprised. When I entered the
house I found some one had conveyed the
news to my mother, that I had joined the
Mormon Church. She treated me very un-
kindly and told me she did not wish to see
me again. She said if I had but died when I
was sick how thankful she would have
been; she cried bitterly I told her that I
would have joined with the Methodists
but she would not allow me to. She said
the Elders were wicked to baptize me with-
out her consent. My answer to this was
that the Lord had consented, and with His
help I would stand firm to the covenants I
had made with Him. From that day to
this I have never had the shadow of a doubt
cross my mind with regard to the principles
of the Gospel.
	I soon found that my friends were few
and far between, but I knew that my
Father in heaven was my friend, I had
proved Him. I had volunteered to stand
by the Church I had joined and defend it,
but my mother’s unkindness caused me to
shed bitter tears. But in spite of all this
my religion grew dearer to me every day.
	When the next Sunday came there was
considerable snow on the ground, but I
told mother I must go to meeting. She
said that if I did go she hoped that I would
not come home alive. I was blessed with a
great deal of will power, so I went. Oh,
how strange it seemed to me! To think
that after the love and kindness that was
shown to me a short time ago, now no one
seemed to care for me. There was no one
to speak a kind word to me, no love, every-
thing looked dark and cold.
	I did not know much about the religion I
had embraced, and there was no one within
five or six miles who could talk to me about
it. But there was consolation with the
Elders and Saints, so to meeting I went.
While there I forgot all my troubles, and
thought only of the exceedingly good time
we were having.
	After meeting I told my sister that I
must go home that night, mother was very
unkind to me, but I should go so as to give
her as little chance to bring anything against
me as possible. So I started and in time
arrived in safety. The first words my
mother said when I came in were’ “I wish
you had died before you came back!”
	I was weary of my journey, for it was
very hard walking, so I went up stairs and
asked the Lord to soften my mother’s heart.
In a short time my mother came and told
me to come down and get something to eat.
Had I done as I felt, I would not have gone
down for I was not used to such treatment.
It did seem hard to think that I had not a
friend now where I once had scores. Not
even one of my old associates would recog-
nize me when we would meet, or if they
did it was to insult or abuse me.
	The next Sunday came, the snow had
melted and left the roads very muddy.
Again I went to meeting, but with the

[Column 3]
same unkind treatment before going and on
returning. But I felt as strong as a lion.
I did not fear anything that might come
along. My health was good and I felt that
I must bear my daily cross. I knew that
God had promised that He would not put
more upon us than He would give us
strength to bear. My only comfort seemed
to be in reading my Bible and pouring out
my soul to my Creator. It seemed that
every time I read new proofs were given me
of the genuienness of the work in which I was
engaged. Though father and mother
and brothers, kindred and friends were
against me, yet in the Bible and humble
prayer I thought I had weapons with which
I could fight the world. I had something
dearer to me than all earthly things com-
bined.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A BRAVE WOMAN.
	There is no braver woman whose home is
in the Capital City than Mrs. Peary, the
wife of the arctic explorer. Mrs. Peary left
her Washington home and sailed on the re-
lief ship Windward in the middle of July to
Etah, Greenland, where, according to pre-
vious arrangements, if all went well, she is
to meet her husband some time in August.
	Should she not find him there awaiting
her she may come to the conclusion that he
is not alive, but has perished in his latest
attempt to reach the North Pole, for no
tidings have come back from Greenland of
any recent signs of Lieutenant Peary, and
it is recorded that last winter was one of the
severest ever known in the Arctic circle. 
Mrs. Peary is a woman of interpid bravery
and undying devotion, and she will un-
doubtedly, if the explorer does not meet her
at Etah, spend the winter there in the hope
that some unforeseen circumstance has de-
layed him.
	She is accompanied on the trip by her
daughter, who, it will be remembered, was
born in the Arctic regions seven years ago.
The little girl inherits the fine constitution
of both her father and mother and is strong
and vigorous, and her friends have little
fear for the effects of the climate upon her.
	Even if Lieutenant Peary meets his wife
according to arrangement there will be a
note of sadness in their reunion, for the
husband is yet ignorant of the death of his
little child who was born after his departure
for the North, and who died last summer
after all communication with him had 
closed.


NOTES.
	MISS PERMEAL FRENCH, State Superin-
tendent of Public instruction of Idaho, has
been nominated for a second term on the
Democratic and the Populist tickets. Miss
Jessie Reilly has been nominated for the
office by the Republicans.
	One is apt to fancy that the British Queen
at home would be handsomely dressed, but
such is not the case, for when she is at
home her Majesty is simply attired in a
black dress, not always of silk, and wears a
widow’s cap with small lappets at the back,
her silver hair plainly brushed on either
side of her temples. Upon her fingers are
plain memorial rings, and she invariably
wears a bracelet having the portrait of her
latest grandchild or great grandchild placed
in it as a medallion. The Queen always
has a handkerchief, bordered with lace,
resting in her hands as they lie folded in her
lap, the survial of an ancient fashion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A THREAD OF THOUGHT.
Written for the Relief Society Jubilee, March
			17, 1892.

My thoughts flew back like a shuttle,
	To our first known record of time;
And looping that time with the present, 
	I have woven them into rhyme. 

When the Morning Stars together 
	Sang out their joyous praise,
And the new, bright Sun, in splendor,
	Sent forth its cheering rays;
Dispelling the night’s cool vapors, 
	And chasing the clouds away;
That the evening and the morning,  
	Might complete the grand First Day 
 
We were there, with God, our Father,
	And voted “Thy will be done,”
And our Mother, Queen in Heaven, 
	Smiled on us every one,
Smiled on each Eve, each Sarah,
	Rachel, Rebecca and Ruth,
Elizabeth, Mary and Martha,
	Each daughter that stood for truth.

We were all ALL there, my sisters;
	And we loved each other well;
And doubtless selected classmates,
	With whom upon earth to dwell.
And our Father marked the course
	For each and we all accepted, 
Nothing was done by force.

We can think how some of us, gazing
	Down the long, long line of years,
Had sufficient faith and courage
	To enter as volunteers.
While others, afraid of their weakness,
	And by earth’s strange shadows appalled,
Longed to follow, and yet concluded
	To wait till their names were called

And some even then with a shudder,
	Held fast to the Gracious Hand, 
And asked “Shall I have power,
	On those slippery heights to stand?
Can you really trust me, Father,
	And shall I be strong enough, 
To carry those heavy burdens
	O'er places so dark and rough?

And our Father, in loving pity,
	Answered “Your guides shall bring 
Your message to me always,
	And I’ll help you in everything.
Never forget, my daughter,
	That sacred pass word, prayer;
Keep it always within your bosom,
	And whisper it everywhere.”

Well! here we are, my sisters,
	In the classes we came to fill;
Learning our daily lessons,
	Doing our Father’s will.
He will clasp our hands with welcomes,
	When the mystic veil is drawn,
And as conquerers we enter,
	Where we hailed the First Great Dawn.
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
		A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands, 
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	November 26. The weather is intoler-
ably dry and the fleas are like the plague in
Egypt. Sister Crosby suffers terribly from
their bites poisoning her blood. Yesterday
we made a party at the residence of Brother
C. F. Grouard, for the purpose of showing
his native wife our method or habit of
waiting on company. We told them what
our design was, that we would help them
do the cooking. They were pleased and
prepared a good supper. We furnished
dishes to set the table and instructed them
how to deport themselves. They en-
deavored to imitate us as much as possible,
and we had a merry time. In the evening
the house being fitted up to look attractive,
we had two instruments of music, besides 
the sweet voices of the native women. Mr.
Grouard seemed quite proud that his wife 
had acquitted herself so much to the satis-
faction of her visitors. We feasted on

[Column 2]
melons at the close of the party, the finest
ever raised on the Island.
	November 29. This morning we arose
early and to our joyful surprise heard the
Ravavai was in sight, which we had not
expected for several days. Brother James
Brown was on board, a prisoner by order of
the French government. When the schooner
landed in Tahiti he was in prison living on
bread and water. He was discharged with-
out a trial on condition that he would re-
main a prisoner on the vessel till conveyed
from out the bounds of the French protec-
rate. The Queen of Tubuai sent on board
and brought him on shore. He appeared
in good spirits, and intends going to Rava-
vai, or to some Islands not under the
French flag. The ship brought glorious
news. I could not sleep the first night,
so great was my excitement. Employment
now for several days answering the wel-
come letters.
	The queen is a thinking woman. She
mourns over the ignorance of her people,
and her own also. They are good readers
and could they have books printed in their
own language and adapted to their capa-
bilities, what inspiration it would give
themto acquire knowledge.
	I have been reading the history of Eng-
land in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. I
would admire her character but for the one
foul blot, the execution by her consent of
Mary Queen of Scotts. Oh, how mysteri-
ous the transactions of men appear in their
political and religious superstitious.
	A prominent young woman is sick whom
I have visited. She needs treatment of
some kind, and all the medicine I have is a
bundle of hops and a little sage. I use the
herbs and encourage the sisters to have
faith in their efficacy. I find their faith
effective in many instances. An elderly
woman came to me in the night and wished
me to go and see a sister of hers who was
very sick. I arose from my bed and went
with her. She led me through a dark,
woody place, over an intricate path, but I
feared nothing. I prayed and laid my
hands on the sick woman. I told her she
should be better in the morning, and so it
proved. “According to thy faith be it unto
you.” Consecrated oil, which we brought
with us from home, has been blessed to
their use often, all on account of the faith
they have in it.
	Ellen succeeds admirably in expounding
the scriptures to their understanding, show-
ing her knowledge of the Bible and the
Book of Mormon, far exceeding my highest
anticipations. Frances sometimes appears
discontented, uttering ejuculations like
this: “Oh, that I were in Salt Lake City
today!” I ask: “Would you like to be
there with no father to provide wood aud
other comforts we have here?” By recall-
ing reminiscences of the past she answers
in the negative. I feel sensibly the sacri- 
fice it is to our daughters to be without
good society.
	December 1. The rain is at last begin- 
ning to descend. We hail it as a welcome
messenger. How the streams will rise and
everything be refreshed. The vessel
was all ready yesterday morning for another
sail. Suddenly the wind sprang up from
another quarter, which will detain it an in-
definite time. Mr. Grouard thinks he has
more perplexities than any man on the Is-
land, having charge of the vessel besides
other duties, involves him in seeming diffi-
culties, and some real ones. The native

[Column 3]
sisters trouble him, having little judgment
about their business. He is tired and home
sick, and has reason to be so.
	For the first time the House of Prayer
has been cleaned, the seats scoured with
sand, a new business to the natives. When
completed they seemed delighted at its ap-
pearance. I told them it must be cleaned
every month, that the Lord would be the
better pleased with us for a strict observance
of cleanliness. The appointed time is the
Saturday preceding the sacrament of the
Lord’s supper.
	The 13th day. Profound stillness ex-
cept when I hear the mallets of the old
women pounding bark to make cloth. The
vibration of the beam on which they pound
is like a drum; it breaks the monotony and
is preferable to no noise at all. In Brother
Crosby’s dwelling, where we often resort at
evening, we can hear music: Ellen with the
flutina, Alma Crosby with the violin, and
his father playing the flute. It is far from
being inferior, though not perfect.
	The 18th day. This morning the Ravai
left the harbor with a fair wind for Ravai-
vai. Brother James Brown bade us fare-
well.

	We are anxiously expecting the
Ravai, and with her the children hope to
see their father. Joyful anticipation!
Captain Grouard has had a son born since
he sailed. There was great excitement
among the friends, all interested were in-
vited to be on the spot to welcome the new
comer as soon as it might be presentable.
At such times the woman, as soon as the
birth is over, is taken to the river and im-
mersed; she is never known to take cold.
Some females after giving birth to offspring
go into decline aud never recover. It does
not. however, appear to result from their
common usages, as they generally do well-
Nature does all for them. Happy would it
be for our women if they were allowed to do
more.
	The 24th. Today I cleaned house and
made preparations for Christmas. The
native sisters are preparing food. They
praise my house when they see it clean,
but do not incline to clean their own. I
encourage them by telling them that the
Lord is better pleased when we keep our-
selves neat and clean. That if we do not,
we must not expect angels will visit us,
for they do not take delight in those who
are filthy.
	The 25th. We commenced Christmas
by trimming up the house with green
boughs and flowers. In the centre of the
room a large pillar supports the roof. By
the side of it I placed two small ito trees of
the most vivid green, extending almost to
the roof, the native houses have no lofts.
To these I attached the long yellow tea
leaves of which the women make wreathes
on account of their bright color and pleas-
ant flower. Added to these, the bright,
fresh flowers of the bouraw scattered about
among the branches, forming a pleasing
contrast of tints, green and yellow.
	In the same manner over head and around
the entire room I hung boughs, flowers
and branches of the limetree with the fruit
on. Our most intimate friends prepared
for us a splendid dinner, to which they
were invited, bringing the food to the
mission house. I told them the object was
to celebrate the birthday of our Savior, and
they seemed pleased.
			(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
Second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG. 15 & SEP. 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
WAR, FAMINE, DESTRUCTION AND
			DANGER.
	The glad news that came by dispatches
on the 18th of August concerning the lega-
tions at Peking in China must have seemed
almost too good to be true after the pro-
longed strain upon the people caused by the
terrible news which came day after day of
the inhuman atrocities perpetrated.
	To those whose friends or relatives were
thus hemmed in, as it were, from all com-
munication, it must, have been something
akin to a message from the “other world,”
and the relief from anxiety and the strain
upon one’s mind and heart, can never be
described in fitting words. The whole
civilized world felt deeply this terrible out-
rage. What must have been the feelings
of those near and dear? It is impossible to
imagine. If these people some of them
live to tell the tale, vivid pen pictures of
their sufferings will be part of the historical
data of the future.
	That the great gates of the Chinese em-
pire were opened by the allied forces, prin-
cipally, it would seem Japanese and Russian,
is really true; and the whole enlightened
world must assuredly rejoice in such an
event. The Chinese wall has been thought
impregnable for thousands of years, but at
last the inventions of men in instruments of
destruction have been strong and effective
enough to open the gates of Peking to the
world outside. Surely the world does
move, and progress is being made along all
lines, material and scientific. 
	Now that the gates of China are opened
what will be the next move on the part of
those Chinese Boxers, who fancied they
were holding the world at bay? no doubt
those heroic soldiers, with their mighty
Generals and leaders who have done such
extraordinary feats already, are prepared to
do more; those who live, but how many
dead and wounded are to be accounted for,
cannot as yet be determined, and though
news travels quickly now across the sea and
land, yet the soldiers’ wives and families
will suffer unspeakable agonies of suspense
before facts in relation to the dead and
wounded can be made public.
	The Boxers have been made world-wide
notorious, and yet a few mouths ago
thousands of people never had heard the
name, who are now familiar with the re-
cital of their deeds of cruelty, Miss Anna

[Column 2]
M. Benjamin has a fine article in the
Outlook for July 1900, written in Peking
the latter part of May of this year, in which
she speaks of that city as on the “eve of
anarchy.” Miss Benjamin tells us the
Boxers, though only recently heard from,
is in reality a secret society which existed
through the whole Mauchee dynasty. It
was undoubtedly formed by the Manchee
couquerors. It used to be not very long
ago the White Lotus Society, and it has of
late years been termed “The Great Knife or
Sword Society.” Miss Benjamin states in
her article that “because of the Boxers’
continuous murder of innocent Chinese,
they may yet feel the vengeance of the
Chinese law before they carry their
righteousness to any great lengths. She
thinks that the Dowager Empress could at
that time have nipped the whole thing in
the bud with a few vigorous measures.”
	Before this paper goes to press we shall
undoubtedly be informed of many soul-
thrilling facts in relation to the breaking
down of the gates of Peking, and the relief
of those immuned within the city’s
walls

	The terrible state of anarchy which seems
to exist in the civilized world at the pres-
ent time is indeed terrifying, though at
present only directed against those in high
places, yet such a spirit of rebellion against
law and order is not to be easily quelled or
confined within given bounds. The old
saying, “Uneasy lies the head that wears a
crown,” is assuredly applicable in this age
of unrest and unholy ambition. Well may
we refer to the prophecies of ancient and
modern prophets, for there seems no safety,
and cry out as we may and do for peace,
“Peace seems to be taken from the earth,
and the avenging sword has gone forth to
slay.” In the footsteps of war comes famine
and the cry has reached the farthermost
corners of the Western world from far-off
India of the terrible suffering there. Ap-
peals for help for the starving children are
almost continuous and would move to pity
a heart of stone.

	In all countries throughout Christendom
it would seem more strict measures are
being taken and more precautions used to
safeguard rulers and men in high places.
Even in the free Republic of the United
States this has been necessary. Surely we
in this age have “fallen upon evil times,”
notwithstanding the enlightenment of the
nineteenth century and the efforts made to
educate the masses and all the various
methods adopted, plans undertaken and
money expended to reach all classes of
citizens and especially the younger gener-
ation. It appears almost incredible in the
face of such far-reaching educational ad-
vantages as now exist that there should be
such misunderstandings, such lack of re-
straint of evil passions. Yet one is obliged
to acknowledge these facts and accept the
situation as there is no other alternative.
	However, it is not well to look on the
dark side or suffer discouragement or failure
to prevent one from attempting to better con-
ditions.
	There are, no doubt, greivous mistakes
in educational systems as there are also in
government; some of these are easily seen,
others, perhaps, are not so clearly under-
stood.
	The importance of training for citizen-
ship is one which demands attention by

[Column 3]
educators as well as parents. It is a fact
that classical education, or scientific or
business course, all these are sought for and
obtained by young men and young women,
all these special lines of usefulness are
taught without the individual getting into
the broader fields and wider range which
prepares one to become a good citizen of a
commonwealth where every man and every
woman is or ought to be a part of the body
politic. There must be a development of
certain qualities and habits of character,
such as courage, discipline and loftiness of
purpose; these are some of the things essen-
tial to maintain free institutions and good
government. One must have the courage
of his convictions, whether moral, political
or religious, in order to exercise his rights
in the face of possible intimidation, other-
wise no amount of learning will save the
man or woman from degenerating or his
faith political or religious from becoming
mere mockery. Responsibility is one of the
factors in bringing out qualities that dis-
tinguish character.
	We are aware that as regards political
education there are various new methods
introduced in the schools and universities of
the present day.
	Of course we are not ignorant of the fact
that Political Economy, so called is taught
in the schools and also sociology and poli-
tics in the class rooms, but there must be
exactitude and ideals; and yet one must not
lose sight of the overwhelming importance
of character.
	Public opinion with many regulates the
public conscience, and the newspapers of
the day have much to do with educating
public sentiment, and as many of them are
sensational it is hardly safe to trust the
average newspaper to regulate the public or
form disinterested public opinion. The
grave responsibility then is thrown back
upon institutions of learning and they must
be such as teach self-government, and a high
moral influence, independent of money
making power, a fixed standard and quality
of permanence. A liberal education in the
best sense, a public spirit, the development
of loyalty, a breadth of character, a per-
manent interest in the profound things of
life.
	If every young man—or nearly so, as it
seems nowadays—who goes into the school
or college is to be a Dr. of Philosophy or
Professor, or possible D. D. or L. L. D., or
graduate with some high sounding title,
making the profession their sole aim and
ambition, where are we to get the men who
are to be the great leaders of men, to serve
the public in this great commonwealth.

	The Executive meeting of the Inter-
national Council in Paris was held in the
American Pavilion. This council repre-
sents eleven nationalities. Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, president, and the Countess of
Aberdeen, vice-president at large, were
present. Lady Aberdeen, for reasons partly
political and partly personal resigned her
position as chairman of the comm ittee on
Peace and Arbitration. This was g[-]eatly
regreted by the ladies of the Council. In-
formal conferences are held every Tuesday
from 4 to 6 o’clock. Mrs. Sewall leads
these conference, speaking in French and
in English alternately.
	In order that the ladies who atttend may
get acquainted tea is served before the con-
ference begins, and small tables are set
around the room and the ladies are intro-
duced to each other by the hostess, Mrs.


Sewall. Many French societies are repre-
sented. Each society seems working for the
Congress that will be held in September.
	Miss Vidart from Switzerland, spoke at
one of these conferences with great power,
taking her own country as an example,
twenty-two cantons, every one of them
independent, had formed a unity through
federation. This is the idea of the National
Council all over the world women agree on
many vital questions. The International
Council can help and strengthen each of
these National Councils and societies in
many ways.
	Mr. W. T. Stead, in a speech at one of
these meetings blamed his own country
very severely. He told the ladies what the
Boer war had cost the country in money
and men, but added he could not make out
what it had cost the country in sorrow for
the dead and anxiety for the living.  He
closed by encouraging the International
Council to work for universal peace and
arbitration.

	Better news from China has been coming
of late and America’s share in the relief
work seems to have been done in a way to
do credit to the country. Secretary Hay is
commended for his timely and wise advice
in matters pertaining to the United States
government, and this republic is the one
least under suspicion of having ulterior
motives. Altogether affairs seem to look
more favorable than could have been ex-
pected so soon after the terrible outbreak.
	However there must still be great un-
certainty where so little can really be
known and so many countries involved.
One must not expect too much, even though
some formidable barriers have been removed
that hindered communication between
China and other great powers. It is de-
voutly to be hoped that a better condition
of things may be developed ere long, and
that the “Treaties with foreign powers in-
stead of war, and every avenue be opened
for the betterment of mankind the world
over.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WORD TO WOMEN.
	As the time of political Primaries and
Conventions has come, considerable interest
is awakened in regard to the questions of
selecting candidates to fill the several
offices of those whose term expires soon
after the November election, and also to
name members of the next Legislature to
be voted for. In all these matters it is
most desirable that everything that is done
should be with a view to the best welfare
and prosperity of this new State. Women
here have the same responsibility resting
upon them as men, although they may not
perhaps take as prominent a part, yet they
should not forget the obligations they are
under to the commonwealth and should
therefore prove their loyalty to the public
weal by prudent measures and careful
thought in all their political efforts. To
begin with they should go to the local
Primaries and urge good men to go and pre-
vent if possible these meetings being run by
partisan office-seekers. Now that women
have equal political rights they should ap-
preciate the privileges that pertain thereto,
and try by paying attention to the details of 
these public affairs to comprehend what may
be done to better conditions, and tho’ there
are few women who would take any public
position, yet they should see to it that good
men are nominated and if some women


have the ability and courage to secure a
nomination to stand by their own sex and
not shirk the responsibility and advantages
granted by the men of Utah in the memo-
rable convention in 1895.
	Very few women so far have sought any
place of trust but there ought to be more
than one or two women in the Legislature in
both houses; and there are women perfectly
well qualified for educational positions.
There are women, too, who are abundantly
able to assist in making the laws that con-
trol the lives and property of their families
and the public at large, and who are in all
respects equals in education of the men who
are elected to do this public duty.
	The matter of registration is one of the
most important things and there should be
no carelessness on the part of any citizen in
this regard; having rights dare to maintain
them, though the duty may sometimes
seem an unpleasant one. Remember how
much more highly favored we are in this
intermountain country than the women of
other parts of the United States. There
will be no house to house canvass but it is a
duty every voter owes to himself or herself,
and to the public weal, to see his name
properly registered. Every individual who
has the good of society and of the com-
munity at heart should do his utmost to
help in this matter, use every effort possible,
as many may not feel the importance at-
tached to registration as those do who have
had better opportunities of knowing what
public duties and obligations mean. The
need of being careful about registration can-
not be too strongly emphasized, especially
as there are only certain days provided by
law in which the work must be done.
These are October 9, 10, 16 and 30.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	We are called to chronicle the death of
two of our faithful sisters in the Relief
Society of Monroe, who have borne the
burden of the day and proved faithfnl to the
end.
	Sister Lizzie Calkin Smith was born in
Gloucestershire, England, July 1, 1821.
She heard the Gospel while a young woman
and was baptized in 1848. She had much to
battle against; she left father, mother,
brothers and sisters and emigrated in 1852,
walking across the plains the entire distance,
except ninety miles, and then was induced
by one of the company to ride, as her health
was very poor; but she felt happy in doing
so, as she had promised the Lord if He
would open the way for her to come to Zion
she would willingly walk all the way.
	She reached Salt Lake City in September,
1852. On the 6th of November, the same
year she was married to Brother Asa
Calkin. They resided in Salt Lake until
1861, when they were called to help in set-
tling Dixie, where they remained during
the trials and hardships incident to settling
a new country. In February 1873 while
visiting friends in Salt Lake City, she re-
ceived the sad news of her husband’s death
but was unable to reach home before he
was buried. She worked faithfully for
three years in the St. George Temple.
	In 1880 she was married to Bishop E. N.
Smith, of Rockville, who had been left a
widower with seven children. She soon
won the love and respect of the children
and strove to fill the place of mother as near
as it could be filled.
	When the Primary Association was or-

[Column 2]
ganized she was selected president, by
Sister E. R. Snow, and also president of
the Relief Society of the same ward, which
position she faithfully filled until the family
moved to Monroe, November, 1891. In
this place she has been connected with the
Relief Society since her arrival. She was
treasurer of the same for four years and
filled that position with honor.
	In 1898 her husband died and since that
time old age has made its demand. Aunt
Lizzie has lived a useful and goodly life,
and will receive the reward of the faithful.
She died August 6, 1900.
	Her motherly counsel and words of en-
couragement will be remembered by all who
were acquainted with her.

	Just one week later, August 13, our dear
sister Flora Clarinda Gleason Washburn,
died at the ripe old age of eighty-one years
and twelve days, being tenderly nursed and
cared for by her children. She leaves three
sons and four daughters to mourn her loss,
and a great many grandchildren and great-
grandchildren.
	Flora Clarinda Gleason Washburn was
born August 2, 1819, at Tolland, Berkshire
Co., Mass. Her parents were Joel and
Lorena Gleason. They removed to
Lenox, Ashtabula Co., Ohio, in the year
1824. Her mother died sixteen days after
reaching Ohio. Clarinda joined the Church
in April, 1834, the only one of her father’s
family that ever embraced the Gospel. She
received her endowments in Nauvoo and
was called at a meeting in Nauvoo to go to
Macedonia, Ill., and organize a Relief
Society, which she presided over until she
was called to go and live at the Mansion
house, the home of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. After the death of the Prophet with
the family of B. F. Johnson, she started
with the first company of Saints in search of
a new home, after having lost everything
she owned of an earthly nature, except the
clothes she had on her body, through the
mobbings and persecutions of the wicked.
	She remained at Winter Quarters a little
over a year and a half, and started for the
valley on the 3rd of July. She harnessed,
fed and drove her own team part of the
way, and arrived in Salt Lake City October
18, 1848. Afterwards she married Abra-
ham Washburn in February, 1849. She
removed from Salt Lake City to Sanpete
Co. the following November, arrived there
November 21, and on the 22nd gave birth to
the first white child born in Sanpete Co.
	She shared in all the hardships incident
to settling and building up a new country.
She was appointed a teacher in the first
Relief Society of Manti, afterwards was
made president, which office she held until
she moved with her family to Monroe,
Sevier Co., Utah, in March, 1872. In
November, 1872 she was appointed presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Monroe, which
position she held until Feburary 6, 1897,
when she was honorably released on account
of her age and poor health, having won
many a laurel to adorn her brow in the
eternal world.
	Not only as president has she been faith-
ful, but whatever her willing hands have
found to do she has done with a will.
	She was buried on the 15th of August,
the brethren and sisters bearing testimony
to the many and faithful labors performed
by our dear sister.
		RELIEF SOCIETY MONROE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting
opened at 2 o’clock p. m., President M. I. 
Horne presiding. Singing, “Come, come, ye
Saints. Prayer by Sister Mary Silver, Sing-
ing, “Welcome best of all good meetings.”
	President Horne said Sister Woolley was 
away visiting in the country and we had
no minutes to read. Asked Sister L. L. 
Greene Richards to act as secretary for the 
meeting. Told of a kindly offering for the 
poor made by the Davis Shoe Co. They
had given her twenty-four pairs of shoes to 
be distributed and she would hand them 
over to the sisters for the poor of their wards
at the close of the meeting. She then asked
the sisters to occupy the time. 
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, and said
she felt that it would be a terrible thing to 
lose that testimony. Related some of her
experiences and prayed that we might so
live as never to have our testimonies dimin-
ished, but that they might grow brighter. 
	Sister Julia C. Howe followed in the
same line the previous speaker had taken
up. Gave as a key by which to know if 
we are really enjoying the testimony of the 
spirit of God, “If we love our brethren and
sisters and all our Father’s children.” By
this we can know that the love of Christ is
abiding with us. 
	A sister in the congregation bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the Gospel. 
	Sister M. Silver spoke of the blessings
which certainly follow the paying of tithing
as well as obedience to all the command-
ments of God. 
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson exhorted the
sisters to look after the suffering ones; be 
missionaries at home and always on the 
alert to do good. We must see to it that
no hard feelings exist in our hearts toward
any one. Speak no evil; set proper ex-
amples before our children always. “The
rain falls on the just and the unjust,” but
the spirit of the Lord will not dwell in un-
holy temples. We must be pure. 
	Sister Barnes spoke of the importance of 
our Temple work, also of looking after the
newly arrived Saints, not leaving them to 
feel lonely, but showing our love for our
Father’s children by taking an interest in 
their welfare and being kind to them.
	Sister Perry said truly she had
wondered why she should be the only one
of her father’s family to accept the Gospel.
But she had found it was that she might
labor in the Temple for her dead kindred.
	Sister Reed told of her having been an 
invalid for years, yet how the Lord was 
blessing her now, renewing her strength to 
the surprise of her friends.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon spoke of the
progress the sisters were making and of the 
necessity of the younger sisters being initi-
ated into the Relief Society work, that they
may be prepared when the burden of the 
business, which is now borne principally by
the older ones, shall rest upon them. Ex-
horted all to diligence and faithfulness in 
dispensing love and cheerfulness among all
with whom we come in contact, bestowing
wisely, not wastefully, to those whom we 
should comfort and succor. 
	Sister Elizabeth Y. Yates, president of 
the Millard Stake Relief Society, was intro-
duced by President Horne and addressed the
meeting. Spoke of the joy she felt in 
hearing the voices of her sisters She al-
ways looked for the reports of these meet-
ings in the EXPONENT and enjoyed read-

[Column 2]
ing them. Told of a visit of a sister [---]
Stake, who had been backward in [---]
testimony. She dreamed she died an[---]as
conducted to a most beautiful man[---]on. 
There a testimony meeting was being held
by some of the Saints. The sister’s heart
was so filled with joy and gratitude that she 
felt she must get up and bear her testimony.
But she was not permitted to speak there
because she had not been valiant in the
testimony of Jesus while upon the earth.
That sister was so impressed by her dream
that she commenced from that time to be 
valiant, and is now a good faithful worker
and a bright speaker in the Relief Society.
	Sister Margaret Gardner and another 
sister, whose name was not assertained by
the secretary, spoke encouragingly and 
prayed for the prosperity of Zion, that the 
mothers would teach their children to pray
as a safeguard against many evils. 
	Sister Martha Morris sang, very sweetly,
“The trials of the present day.” Others
bore testimony of the truth of the Gospel, 
the efficacy of prayer. 
	Sister Smellie, by permission of President
Horne, read the poem, “A Thread
of Thought.”
	Sister Decker told of some of her exper-
iences which had given her a testimony of 
the truth of the Gospel.
	Several others, whose names were not 
known to the sisters on the stand, spoke of 
their love for the work of the Lord, and the 
comfort they found in striving to live their
religion.
	Sister Bassett said she had visited other 
churches, but there was nothing satisfactory
to her in any religion but that believed in 
by the Latter-day Saints. 
	Other sisters made remarks, all harmon-
izing with those of the previous speakers.
	Sister Bateman related an instance of re-
markable healing in her family, through 
faith and the administration of the priest-
hood.
	President M. Isabella Horne in-
structed the sisters regarding the impor-
tance of seeking first the kingdom of God 
and His righteousness, trusting him to ful-
fill His promise that all other things should 
be added. 
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Box
Elder Stake was held in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, June 12, 1900, President S.
P. Booth presiding. Singing “Awake ye
Saints of God, awake.” Prayer by Counselor
Louisa Peters. Singing, “How great the
joy that promised day.”
	The Stake officers were present on the
stand and of the General Board Jane S.
Richards and Emmeline B. Wells, also
Sarah A. Herrick, of Ogden.
	Minutes of the previous conference,
morning session, were read by the secretary
and accepted.
	President S. P. Booth was pleased to
be able to meet under such favorable cir-
cumstances and wished to give as much
time as possible to our visitors.
	President Jensen, of Mantua, President
Summerville, of Honeyville, President
Annie S. Johnson, of the First Ward,
Brigham City, gave favorable reports of
their respective wards.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of our
own imperfections, if we were perfect our-

[Column 2]
selves we would have no mercy or charity
for others. The sisters of the Relief Society
are doing their part to help along. Coun-
seled the sisters to be united.
	Sister Sarah A. Herrick, of Ogden, took
great pleasure in listening to the minutes,
good always comes from doing our duty.
	President Hubbard, of Willard, spoke of
the blessings of the Lord that will be given
to all who keep His commandments.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “Come follow me.” Benediction by
Counselor Amelia Madsen.
	Afternoon session. Singing “Come
dearest Lord descend and dwell.” Prayer
by Counselor David P. Burt. Singing “Ye
simple souls who stray.” Roll called, show-
ing thirteen wards present out of sixteen.
Minutes of the previous conference, after-
noon session, were read by the correspond-
ing secretary and accepted. The Stake re-
ports were also read.
	Counselor David P. Burt then presented
the following names of sisters who had been
selected as officers in the Third ward Re-
lief Society, Brigham City: President,
Lizzie Burt; counselors, Emma Lee and
Frederica Peterson; secretary, Maria
Phillips; assistant secretary, Rose Keeley;
treasurer, Sophia Thompson. Fourth
Ward: President, Sarah Wilde; counselors,
Elizabeth Wright and Martena Pulsipher;
secretary, Lulu B. Call; assistant secretary,
Emily Brown; treasurer, Maria Hansen.
	The officers were all unimously sustained.
Sister E. B. Wells addressed the conference.
Spoke of the growth of the Relief Society,
its great magnitude and made a specialty of
silk culture, encouraging all to do what-
ever they could towards advancing the im-
portant industry; also spoke impressively
on the high calling and privileges of the
women of Zion, the great blessing the Re-
lief Society had been to all who had been
members, and what a superior education
might be acquired through laboring in this
organization for practical charity and the
uplifting of humanity. Urged the young
sisters to take part in the work. Spoke
feelingly of obedience and faithfulness in
attending to our duties.
	Sister Jane S. Richards related her
past experience; we have to be reconciled
to things that take place. Advised the
younger sisters to join the Relief Society.
	President S. P. Boothe made a few
closing remarks, and after singing Doxology
benediction was pronounced by President
Ella Watkins. Conference adjourned until
September.
		OLIVE BYWATER, Cor. Sec.
				Box Elder Stake R. S.
	P. S. After the close of the conference
an officers meeting was held in which many
questions were asked and much good in-
struction was given to those desiring in-
formation.
BEAVER STAKE.
	Conference of the Beaver Stake Relief
Society was held in the Society hall, in
Beaver City, Utah, May 11, 1900, com-
mencing at ten o’clock a. m.
	Present on the stand of the sisters were
Stake President C. C. Shepherd and
Counselors M. A. White; Ward Presidents
J. W. Bickley, Winnie Miller, and Susan
Roberts; Vice-Presidents M. A. Tolton and
Sarah Walker; of the brethren, Bishops
George Mumford, George Eyres and others.
	Meeting opened by singing “I saw a
mighty angel fly.” Prayer by Elder John


[Column 1]
Lang. Singing, “May we who know the
joyful sound.” Roll called, nine officers
present. Minutes of morning session of
previous conference were read and accepted.
	President Shepherd said it does us good
to meet and hear the reports of the differ 
ent branches; also of the growth of these
organizations in the past fifty-eight yeats,
and the many duties devolving upon us—
building, looking after the sick, etc.
	Bishop Mumford spoke of the good spirit
here, also of the necessity of attending our
different conferences. We should not
neglect spiritual for temporal duties. Re-
ferred to the judgments which are abroad
on the face of the earth, and felt that more
of our young sisters should identify them-
selves with the Relief Society.
	Vice-President M. A. Tolton bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and the
divine mission of Joseph Smith. Spoke of
the necessity of living up to our
many duties.
	Sister Harriet Ashworth sweetly sang
“He Knows.”
	Sister S. M. Dell felt well in this work.
Prayed the Lord to bless us.
	Sister Sarah Walker said the Miners-
ville sisters had built a hall which they de-
sired to finish and dedicate another year.
They had a good set of sisters, alive to
their duties.
	Sister Edward Stevenson, of Salt Lake
City, who had arrived since meeting opened,
was pleased to be with us and feel the good
spirit here. This a grand work organized
by the Prophet Joseph. The first organiz-
ation consisted of comparatively young
women, now our young sisters do not unite
with us as they should. The prophet said
the Church was not fully organized until
the Relief Society was organized, which
was not only to look after the needy, com-
fort the afflicted, etc., but to provoke our
husbands to their duties; never allow our
children to speak lightly against the holy
priesthood and those in authority, brethren
or sisters. Spoke of the sad disaster at
Schofield, also the judgments befalling the
nations. Referred to the sacred duties of
teachers, our annual meeting and ten
cent donations and other obligations. Re-
ferred to the instructions of President
Young to the sisters in regard to building,
storing grain, etc. The young sisters
should come and learn how to train the
precious jewels entrusted to their care.
	Bishop George Eyres made encouraging
and eulogistic remarks.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. to L. D.
S. meeting house. Singing “Lord dismiss
us.” Benediction by President M. L.
Shepherd.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 o’clock p.
m. by singing “We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet.” Prayer by Professor W.
G. Bickley. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.” Minutes of afternoon ses-
sion of previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President J. W. Bickley reported the
Beaver Relief Society in good condition.
Have work meetings every week. Grain
has been in good condition until the present
time, but now mice are working through
the ceiling, but we intend to take im-
mediate steps to stop their depredations.
	President Susan Roberts reported the
Minersville Society in a prosperous con-
dition. The sisters are united and turn out
well both to religious and work meetings.
	President Winnie Miller reported the

[Column 2]
Greenville society prosperous; fair attend-
ance; rock on hand to build a hall.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
and the General and Stake officers of the
Relief Society were presented and sustained.
	A solo was sweetly rendered by Sister
Janet Shipp.
	Stake Counselor M. A. White spoke on
the many duties of mothers and the care
necessary in training our children. The
Relief Society is a great help to mothers.
	Sister Stevenson felt very humble in
standing before us. “Motherhood is a
grand mission. These noble spirits which
we have to bear were held in reserve for
this dispensation.” She spoke of the neces-
sity of a watch care over our sons and
daughters, gaining their confidence, teach-
ing them virtue and the necessity of purity
in matrimonial life, that wives may be
healthy and raise pure offspring; also spoke
on faith, household duties, economy,
cleanliness the word of wisdom and every
good virtue. The sisters should belong to
the Relief Society. It is suggested that
each pay a little towards building a house
for the General Society. Encouraged the
sisters to sustain the Exponent. We
should read good literature and not trashy
novels. Bore a faithful testimony to the
Gospel.
	President C. D. White spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children to labor and
lighten the burdens of mothers; also the law
of tithing. Sabbath breaking was spoken
strongly against.
	President Shepherd made closing re-
marks. Primary conference was announced
for the next day at 2 o’clock p. m., and
conference adjourned till the second Friday
in November. Singing, “The spirit of
God.” Benediction by Patriarch D. Tyler.
	ALICE M. T. TANNER, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Sister Mary Ann Standring Roberts was born in
Sheffield, England, March 2, 1851. She em-
braced the Gospel in her native land and emi-
grated to Utah with her parents, John and
Elizabeth Cutler, in the year 1864. She was mar-
ried to Edwin Standring, Februrary 28, 1878. She
was the mother of two children, a daughter and a
son. Her son, John Edwin, survives her. She
was left a widow in the year 1888, and in March
1896, became the wife of John Roberts, Jun. She
was appointed assistant secretary of the Relief
Society in 1879, and in 1882 was sustained as
secretary, which position she held until the time of
her death. From the year 1888 she, in connection
with others, had charge of the Primary depart-
ment of the Sunday School. Her death occurred
on July 13, 1900, at Lehi, Utah Co.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called from
our midst our dear sister, Mary Ann Standring
Roberts; and
	Whereas, We, the members of the Relief Society,
have been called to mourn the loss of a faithful
officer, a firm friend and a true Latter-day Saint,
therefore, be it
	Resolved, That We cherish her memory and
endeavor to emulate her noble example.
	Resolved, That we should extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family, who mourn the loss
of a devoted wife, mother and sister.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, published in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT and also placed on the records of the
Relief Society.
						SARAH T. EVANS,
						HANNAH JONES,
						SABINA CANDLAND,
					(In behalf of the Relief Society.)
	Lehi, Utah.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of our beloved sister, Lavina Haigh Glenn, who
departed this life, July 12, 1900. She was born


August 21, 1853. Sister Glenn embraced the
Gospel in her native land, England, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1869. She was married to
Alexander Glenn in 1870 and was the mother of
fourteen children, three of whom preceded her to
the “better land.” Five boys and six girls are left
to mourn her loss, and a host of friends. She was
a kind and loving wife and mother and died in
full faith of the Gospel. Sister Glenn was ill for
nine months and the sisters of the Relief Society
fasted and prayed for her, and all was done for
her that was possible to relieve her sufferings, The
sisters of the Relief Society of four wards marched
in front of the casket to the meeting house. The
funeral was largely attended and the floral offer-
ings were beautiful. The Relief Society gave a
beautiful broken circle to show their love for her.
	Whereas, Death has come into our midst and
taken from us our honored sister, whom we all
loved, an earnest supporter and teacher of the Re-
lief Society, be it,
	Resolved, By the members of this society, that
we tended the bereaved family our sincere sym-
pathy and earnestly desire that God will comfort
them in their affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of resolution be sent
to the family, a copy be placed on record and one
forwarded to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
						CECELIA C. KIRK,
						MAHALA JENKINS,
									Committee.




August 21, 1853.Sister Glenn embraced-the "
Gospel in her native land, England, and -emi-
grated to Utah in 1869. She was married to
Alexander Glenn in 1870 and was the motherof'
fourteen children, three of whom preceded her to
the “better land.’’" Five boys and six girls are left
to mourn her loss, and a host of friends. She was
a kind and loving wife and mother and died in
full faith of the Gospel. .Sister Glenn was ill for
nine months and the sisters of the Relief Society
fasted and prayed for her, and all was done for
her that was possible to relieve her sufferings, The
sisters of the Relief Society of four wards marched
in front of the casket to the meeting house. . The
funeral was largely attended and the floral offer-
ing s were beautiful. The Relief Society gave a
beautiful broken circle to show their love for her.'
Viercas, Death has come into our midst and
taken from us our honored sister, whom we all
loved, an earnest supporter and teacher of the Re-
lief Society, be it,
Resolved. By the members of this society, that
we tender the bereaved family our sincere sym-
pathy and earnestly desire that God will comfort
them in their affliction.
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be sent
to the family, a copy be placed on record and one
forwarded to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion. ,-.
-- , Cecelia C. Kirk,-
jr Maiiala Jenkins, r - ... .’LHj..-Committee.


WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Wayne
Stake was held at the Fremont Relief
Society house, June 7, 1900.
	Opened by singing “Come listen to a
prophets voice.” Prayer was offered by
Patriarch E. H. Black. Singing, “O, say
what is truth” Minutes of previous
conference read and accepted.
	President Jane S Coleman was pleased
to have so good an attendance of the sisters
and brethren at conference. Prayed that
we ever may be united by the bonds of
love and good feeling. Spoke upon the
duties of the officers and the necessity of-
having our records in proper condition,
that the sisters of the Relief Society should
be exemplary in all things and workers in
the Church and kingdom of God. Spoke
upon the necessities of the poor, that they
should be looked after and not neglected,
for the Prophet Joseph said the poor would
be made to rejoice through this organization,
it would be the beginning of better days for
them.
	Counselor M. E. Hanks said she was
gratified to see so many young sisters and
brethren present. Spoke upon giving
respect to the aged and to parents, and to
teach reverence for the priesthood. Spoke
on raising families and read from Apostle
Woodruff’s discourse on that subject. Spoke
on the care mothers should give their chil-
dren and the good impression they should
make upon their minds in their early youth.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe said we
should daily improve. It is the little
covert acts that creep in and make us weak.
Mothers should pray constantly for wisdom
to raise their children in the proper way.
A wide field of usefulness is open for our
sons and daughters. Mothers need to be
watchful and incline their aspirations in an
elevating channel. Said the mission of
mothers was great and responsible, to train
and raise the children aright.
	Sister Lucinda Brown was thankful she
was a member of the Relief Society, had
never heard better counsel given than had
been taught this morning. Spoke of past
times and of the present. Gave excellent
advice to young mothers pertaining to the
family. Mother is the one to instil into the
mind of the child the qualities that will
make them good and great in life.


Patriarch E. H. Blackburn said he
esteemed it an honor to be called on to
speak at the sisters’ conference. He enjoyed
the excellent spirit that was present with
us. Spoke upon the increase of the testi-
mony of the Gospel. We should honor
our callings, increase in faith, cultivate and
enjoy the gifts of the Gospel. Angels
were present taking record of all the good
that was done and said. Bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Singing, “Do what is right.” Benedic-
tion by Elder Allan Taylor.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “An angel
from on high.” Prayer by Elder Ole Oke-
land. Singing. Stake Secretary Anna
Coleman read financial report.
	President J. S. Coleman spoke on the
subject of sericulture. Several sisters in
the Stake had donated liberally to buy
mulberry trees, the result was that five
thousand yearling mulberry trees had been
planted this season. They were reported
growing well with very little loss. Said
she felt encouraged at our success in this
direction.
	The Relief Society of Fremont, Loa,
Thurber, Teasdale and Grover were re-
ported by their respective presidents in
good condition; Lyman and Caineville (by
counselors) doing well, working in unity.
At Giles and Caineville they were feeding
a few silk worms to gain some experience
for a future time.
	The Stake secretary presented the
General Board and Stake officers for accep-
tance; all were sustained.
	Counselor M. E. Hanks made remarks
on tithing, the word of wisdom and to
seek for the spirit of the Lord and keep it.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was pleased to
hear the subject of raising families spoken
upon, the ways of the world were making
inroads among the people of God. Said she
was the mother of thirteen children. Was
pleased with the good instructions, they
were timely and good. We should live up
to the golden rule. Bore testimony to the
work of God.
	Sisters Anna Coleman and Elizabeth
Jeffrey spoke on living up to the principles
of the Gospel and being chaste in speech,
and not indulge in too much jesting to mar
the spirit of God.
	Sister Leah Blackburn said when we do
our duty the Lord will not withhold His
blessings from us. We should examine our
record daily and know if we are accomplish-
ing some good. Spoke of our privileges as
mothers having sons carrying the glad
tidings of the Gospel to those who know it
not.
	President Coleman said we had been
taught the word of the Lord, take it to our
homes and carry it out in our lives and be
benefited thereby. Live so that the Holy
Spirit will be our constant companion to
direct us at all times, improve every
spare moment by reading good books and
advance in knowledge and intelligence.
	The choir sang “Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah.” Benediction by Elder
John Adshead.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main. St, Salt Lake City.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US.
		
[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver .	6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City
No. 5	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p. m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 3	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank [-]n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . , . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,	D E. BURLEY, 
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


MRS. ROOSEVELT.
	Mrs. Roosevelt is a fine horsewoman, and
may be seen almost any pleasant day in a
riding habit of blue cloth and a black
Fedora hat, cantering over roads at Oyster
Bay beside the Governor. She is so slender
and girlish looking no one would suppose
her to be the mother of all those rollicking
boys who rush to the window to throw
kisses to their father and mother as they
start. The New York Tribune says:

	The Roosevelt house is on the crest of a hill
and is surrounded by trees. It has an attractive
square hall, and its walls are covered with souven-
irs of the Colonel's travels.
	A large deer’s head, with spreading antlers,
does duty as a hat rack, upon which hangs the
Colonel’s campaign hat. Above are his regimental
colors. In the dining room are the heads of a
buffalo, a bear and several deer, all brought down
by Colonel Roosevelt’s rifle.

	Mrs. Roosevelt is devoted to husband and
children. Her first care and thought are
for them, and social life is a secondary con-
sideration. She does not go into society
in general, but has her own especial friends,
whom she entertains charmingly.


Another heir to the British throne has
been born and duly baptized with the
Queen as godmother. This is the fourth
child of Princess Louise of Batenburg and
the thirty-seventh great-grandchild of Her
Majesty.

	MRS. ROGER WOLCOTT has been ap-
pointed by Mayor Hart to represent Boston
at the International Congress of Charities in
Paris during the Exposition. She has ac-
cepted an invitation to speak at the
Congress.

	The Colonial Dames of Connecticut will
give $100 to the Committee on Historical
Landmarks towards the erection of a monu-
ment on the site of the former home of the
Rev. Samuel Russell, in Branford, where
the first meeting in the interest of Yale
College was held in 1700.

	Recently several visits have been made to
the Relief Society conferences of the several
Stakes. President Jane S. Richards and
Josephine R. West attended Relief Society
and Primary conference in Malad Stake.
President M. Isabella Horne and Sister
Harriet Ellis, the Relief Society conference
of Millard Stake; Sister E. J. Stevenson and
M. A. Caine the R. S. and Y. L. of Paro-
wan Stake, and Sister M. A. Caine, the
R.S. and P. A. of Panguitch Stake. Presi-
dent M. I. Horne and Sister H. Ellis also
attended a special meeting of the Relief
Society at Park City.


[---] Relief Society
Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL 29.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15 & OCTOBER 1, 1900. Nos. 8 & 9


CONTENTS.
The Domestic Science Class . . . . . . . . . . L. M. H.	33
Current Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ella W. Hyde	33
South African Situation . . . . . . . Luella M Rhodes	34
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton . . . . . . . . . . . .	35
Miss Anthony’s Address to Mothers . . . . . . . . . . .	37
R. S. Reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .		37
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	39
U. W. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ruth M. Fox	39
A Wonderful Invention . . . . . . . . . . Mary F. Kelly	40 
Notes And News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .		40
EDITORIAL—Women’s Meetings. . . . . . . . . . . .		36
	A Most Eventful Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .		36
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .		36
POETRY—O, be Joyful! . . . . . . . Lydia D. Alder		33
	Across the Years . . . Jennie Noonan Wheless	35
	August Twilight . . . . . . . . . James Buckham		35


For the Exponent.
O, BE JOYFUL!

	O, be joyful, O, be joyful,
		Sing ye Saints of Latter-days;
	Giving unto God the Father,
		Adoration, love and praise.

	For the blessings of the Gospel,
		In our day restored to man;
	With its powers, gifts and gladness,
		Revealing clear salvation’s plan. 

	On the mountains ring the tidings,
		In the East the glory breaks,
	Ush'ring in the day of promise,
		When the world from slumber wakes.

	See, the clouds of doubt and error,
		Rolling with the mists away,
	A pathway opened up to heaven,
		Christ descends in white array. 

O, trembling earth, thy King is come,
		Refulgent rays o’er thee shine;
	In thy bosom swells emotion,
		Fires of love, serene, divine.

See the living Saints appearing,
		In their robes of glistening white,
	Crowns are given to the victors,
		who triumphant win the fight. 
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


THE DOMESTIC SCIENCE CLASS.
	One of the necessities of all cities, and
especially Salt Lake, is a School of Domes-
tic Science. An institution where all can
receive proper training to fit them for future
life. This school is not only for girls who
seek employment as domestics, nor for the
nurses, who, I am sorry to say, know
nothing about cooking, but for these young
girls who are growing up and know not
“when the hour cometh” that they may be
called upon to preside in the kitchen.
	While a person may go through life and
never be compelled to cook a meal, if she is
skilled in the art she is better able to know
when it is properly prepared.
	This school of ours that was held in the
Normal school building of the University
was a success and exceeded our most san-
guine expectations. It was started without
a cent of money but with the proverbial
generosity of the Salt Lake people a stove,
dishes, cooking utensils, etc., were donated,
and when our school closed our expenses
were all paid and a surplus to commence
another school.
	Every club in the city was supposed to
have a delegate who would interest herself
in the work, but it fell entirely on the Press


Club, Mrs. Georgianna Young, Mrs. Emma
J. McVicker and Mrs. Luella M. Rhodes.
	We expect to make arrangements to in-
clude it in a special course at the Univer-
sity, to be an elective study, as it were,
until the Legislature meets, when we hope
to secure an appropriation to carry on the
work and make a permanent study. This
work has progressed in London with marked
success, so that now a School of Domestic
Science is made a part of the training of
every girl. Every day between nine and
twelve there were over thirty-three pupils
at their work. The cooking department
was presided over by Miss Emily Cannon, a
graduate of the Boston School of Cooking.
The art of housewifery was taught by
Miss Edna May Davis, a thoroughly com-
petent instructress. In the sewing room
Miss Mary S. Smith, a graduate of the Pratt
Institute, N. Y., taught the girls the differ-
ent stitches, hemming, felling, patching,
darning, etc., and impressed upon them that
“a stitch in time saves nine.” Many of
the girls made articles of wearing apparel
for themselves. Some made handkerchiefs,
and some of the smaller girls made doll
clothes. This only shows what can be done
in just a five weeks’ course.
	At the closing exercises of the school
much encouragement was given the com-
mittee. Many of the parents and friends
expressed themselves as greatly pleased
with the work of the children and pledged
themselves to help support a Domestic
Science School. “As ye sow, so shall ye 
reap.’’
						L. M. R.


[Column 1]
CURRENT EVENTS.
	There has been rather a dearth of news
here of any great importance during the
month of August. What seemed to be
uppermost in the minds of the people was
the extreme heat that prevailed and the best
methods of keeping cool. The summer has
been the hottest experienced for many
years, especially in the East where large
numbers of deaths and prostration have
occurred daily, principally in New York and
Chicago.
	In a paper-given recently on current
events, the hope was expressed that the
“white flag of truce would soon float over
the nations of the world.” It is to be re-
gretted that the hope has not been realized,
for wars and rumors of wars still exist in
almost every part of the world, with the
prospect of still greater wars occurring
than we have yet had. The conditions
existing in China are the leading topic of
the day. It was first thought the trouble
originated with a lawless element called the
Boxers, but Minister Conger declares the
blame rests with the Imperial government.
Other opinions are that the responsibility
rests with the European governments, on
account of the jealousies existing between
them, and their lack of foresight and prud-
ence in meeting the crisis. But wherever
the blame lay, it was evident that the
foreigners at the legations were in great

[Column 2]
danger of being massacred, and that it was
of the utmost importance that the allied
forces should hasten to their rescue. After
a long and difficult march, and with numer-
ous victorious engagements with the enemy,
they entered the city of Pekin. They found
the foreigners all safe, but almost starved,
as they had been living on small rations for
some time and had only enough provisions
to last three days. After a siege of fifty-six
days of danger and privation we can imagine
their rejoicing over their deliverance. What
the future policy of the powers will be in
dealing with China is yet to be determined.
	In South Africa the Boer situation con-
tinues to be a vexed question. Kruger is
still defiant and declares that the war will
last a long time yet. The war proper is at
an end, but indiscriminate fighting is still
going on, the Boers keeping up a sort of
guerilla warfare, of which the English are
becoming very tired. There can be no
doubt but that England will be victorious,
in the end, but it will be after a long siege
with much harassment and loss of life.
	The situation in the Philippine Islands is
very similar to that in South Africa. The
Filippinos are still fighting for their in-
dependence. It is said their hatred for the
Americans is more bitter than it was for the
Spaniards. Their army is still well organ-
zed and the prospects are that fighting will
be continued in the Islands for some time to
come.
	The assassination of King Humbert of
Italy by an anarchist, is one of the sad
events of the month. His son, Victor
Emanuel III., in order to avoid riots and
disorder, immediately ascended the throne.
He is said to be small in stature, but of
strong character and it is thought will be-
come popular with his people. Attempts
to assassinate other rulers and heads of
governments have been made, among whom
was President McKinley.
	The Paris Exposition still continues to 
draw large crowds, as many as half a mil-
lion were reported to have been in attend-
ance in one day. There seems to be a
difference of opinion in regard to the success
of the Exposition. Some say it far sur-
passes the World’s Columbian Exposition
in Chicago in 1893, others say it is not so
good. It certainly should be better, as it
has seven years the advantage in the way of
advancement. Financially the Paris Expo-
sition is not a success. It has been officially
announced that it will close on November 5.
	The first trial in the celebrated Goebel
murder case has at last come to an end, and
Caleb Powers, who has been tried for com-
plicity in the murder, has been convicted
and sentenced to imprisonment for life. It
is to be hoped that all who took part in the
assassination of Governor Goebel will meet
the same punishment.
	Several notable deaths occurred during
the month, among which are the Duke of
Saxe-Colberg and Gotha, Admiral in the
British navy, and son of Queen Victoria;
Baron Charles Russell, Lord Chief Justice of
England; Collin B. Huntington, President
of the Southern Pacific R. R., and Senator
Ingals.


The campaign for the election of a presi-
dent of the United States, and also local
officers, has just commenced, and promises
to be a lively and interesting one. One
pleasing feature of the campaign in Utah
will be that a number of women will be
candidates for important offices. It is to be
hoped they will receive the support of every
voter in the State, especially of the women,
that our lady candidates may come off
victorious in the coming political struggle.
	Salt Lake City entertained a large num-
ber of strangers during the month of
August. The six biennial sessions of the
head camp Woodmen of the World, which
was held here, brought several hundred.
The great Eastern newspaper league repre-
sentatives also visited us, and many othei
tourists. The visitors were unanimous in
sounding the praises of our beautiful city
and its hospitality.
	The clubs of the city are resuming their
sessions and are taking up their winter
work, the work being along the lines of the
advancement of woman, and the improve-
ment of mankind, which is the motto of
our own Press Club.
				ELLA W. HYDE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOUTH AFRICAN SITUATION.
(Read at the U. W. P. C., August 31, 1900.)
Madame Chairman and Ladies:
	In commencing my paper upon the
situation in South Africa, I shall have to
give you a long synopsis of the Transvaal
and Orange Free State. Since two years
ago, when Lord Kitchener crushed the
Dervishes at Khartoum the all absorbing
topic has been the war between the Boers
and the British in South Africa. 
	The early history of the Boers of South
Africa has its parallel in that of the Pil-
grims who landed on Plymouth Rock. When
the boat load of pilgrims left England to
come to America and found the freedom
they sought, a number of Dutch and
Huguenots, refugees from France, departed
from Holland about the same time for
similar reasons, and decided to seek their
fortune and religious freedom at the Cape
of Good Hope.
	The experiences of the two colonies were
somewhat similar. Our Pilgrim Fathers
had the Indians, and the Dutch had the
Hottentots and Bushmen to contend with.
	Notwithstanding all their trials and
tribulations everything was very favorable
with the Boers until France was obliged to
cede to England the South African settle-
ment which had been acquired with the
annexation of Holland. Even then the
settlers believd their deliverance from
tyranny had arrived, but their hopes were
only short lived. The British ruled the
colony as they had been taught in London,
and allowed no local impediment to swerve
them from their course.
	The Boer settlers had opinions of their
own and bitterly opposed the British rule.
if England had been wise in her maneuvre
and understood the country and people bet-
ter, and had been careful to send out only
sensible and sympathetic men there would
probably never have been any trouble.
	She insisted on the use of the English
language; she altered the system of the
court and local government, reducing the
rights which the people enjoyed.
	In 1853 the Boers, (the Boer means
farmer or peasant) sacrificed their farms at
whatever price they could secure and emi-

[Column 2]
grated to the Orange Free State. The
English told them if they left they could
expect nothing from them nor help. In
1854 the Boers had such a desperate battle
with the Matabele that they implored Eng-
land for assistance, but in vain. The Boers
were then compelled to establish a govern-
ment of their own, which is today em-
bodied in that of the Orange Free State.
	Since that memorable day when the
British flag was hauled down from the flag
staff at Bloemfontein fort, the British and
Boers have not been very friendly, and the
British regret that their flag is absent from
the fort. The Boers will yield their lives
before they will allow it to be raised again.
Nowhere in the world is the American re-
public admired so much outside of its
own country as in South Africa. Both the
Transvaal and Orange Free State constitu-
tions are patterned after the United States.
South Africa is a modified counterpart of the
United States. It differs in some features
but has the same general foundation.
	The president is elected for five years
and oversees the Executive Council which
constitutes the real government. The Ex-
ecutive Council consists of three heads of
departments and six unofficial members of
the First Raad. These nine officials are the
authors of all laws, treaties and policies that
are proposed to the Volkraad. There are
two Volkraads, the first like our Senate, the
second like our House of Representatives,
but with far less power.
	The First Raad consists of 27 members,
elected for and by the people, and they must
be born in the country. A naturalized
Boer is ineligible to the Upper House. The
popular opinion is that a naturalized citizen
takes less interest in the affairs of the coun-
try. The First Raad was established in
1835, the Second Raad in 1890. This was
in order that the Uitlanders might have
representation in the affairs of the govern-
ment. All members are obliged to wear
black clothes and white ties.
	All court proceedings are conducted in
the Dutch language and none but Dutch
speaking lawyers are admitted to practice at
the bar.
	The Boer of today is a man who loves
solitude above all things. He and his
ancestors have enjoyed the chief spirit of
the early settlers of South Africa for so long
that it is his greatest delight to be let alone.
	Physically the Boers are a superior race—
the roving existence, the life in the open
air and the freedom from cares, all combine
to make the Boers almost physically perfect.
They can stand any amount of pain and
discomforture and can live for a remarkably
long time on the smallest quantity of food.
A Boer can subsist on a five pound piece of
“Biltong” (beef that has been dried in the
sun until it is as hard as a stone) for ten or
fifteen days without suffering any pangs of
hunger. In time of war “Biltong” is the
principal diet in army rations.
	The religion of the Boers is one of their
chief characteristics; it comes first and is
uppermost in their thoughts. The Old
Testament is the pattern he strives to fol-
low. He reads from its pages every day, and
when he wishes to exchange cattle with his
neighbor or give his daughter in marriage
lie consults the Old Testament and finds
therein the advice that is applicable to the
situation. The State controls the church
and again the church controls the State. It
is necessary for a man to become a factor in
religious affairs before he can become of any
political importance. The Dutch reformed

[Column 3]
church has been the State church since
1835. The Heroonnde Dopper branch of
the church is a result of a disagreement in
1883 over the singing of hymns during re-
ligious service. The Doppers led by Oom
Paul peacefully withdrew, and started a
congregation of their own, and the more
progressive faction proceeded to sing hymns,
which the Doppers declared was extremely
worldly.
	The great festival in the Boer’s calendar
is that of Nachtmaal or Communion, which
is generally held in Pretoria the latter part
of the year. It behooves every Boer to
journey to the capital once a year to partake
of Communion. Pretoria then becomes the
Mecca of all Boers, the pretty little village
is filled to overflowing with pilgrims their
wagons and cattle. Those living in the re-
mote part of the country are obliged to start
several weeks before the “Nachtmaal” in
order to be there at the appointed time.
In many instances the journey to and from
requires six weeks. They camp in the
open square in the center of town surrouud-
ing the old brick church, which to them is
the most sacred edifice in the world.
	Transvaal and South Africa without a
description of Stephanus Johannes Paules
Kruger, would be like the play of Hamlet
with Hamlet left out. Kruger is a man of
absolutely no education, although he has
applied his inherent abilities so as to he able
to acquit himself of his high office in a
manner to be envied by many who have
enjoyed a hundred times as many ad-
vantages. Since his youth he has been a
leader among the countrymen. His person-
ality is most unique: he impresses one as
being a king in the garb of a farmer; a
genius in a dunce cap; an awkward country-
man in store clothes, with a silk hat in-
tended for some one else; his coat is far too
small to meet around his corpulent body and
his trousers seem to have a natural antipathy
for his shoes. He is uncouth in his manner,
is suspicious of every stranger and every-
body. He is slow to make friends, but once
he trusts a person, volumes of proof are
neceesary before he alters his opinion. He
never forgets a good deed and never par-
dons a man who does a bad one.
	Although the majority of his countrymen
are of Dutch or Hueguenots ancestory, he is
a German. His paternal ancestors emigrated
to South Africa in 1713. Paul was born
October 10, 1825. His remarkable vitality
and capacity for hard mental labor are the
results of the great care which he has be-
stowed upon himself and the regular habits
he has followed for twenty years. He rises
at half past five every morning and follows
a daily program from which he never de-
viates unless he is away from home. He is a
speechmaker of ordinary ability; he speaks
without preparation, indulges in no flights
of oratory, uses plain language that is
understood by all. His speech is in the
Taal dialect, which bears the same relation
to the Dutch language as the low German
does to the high German. This war has
been a terrible strain on his nervous
vitality and he has been obliged to forego
the habits of a lifetime. Instead of retiring
at seven o’clock it has often been one or two
in the morning. So exhausted has he been
that it is with difficulty that he has climbed
to his bed. I say climbed, for he has an
ancient Dutch bed which came from Hol-
land with the first Jacob Kruger. This bed
is five feet from the floor and is reached by
a stairway.
			(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ACROSS THE YEARS.
Perhaps the breath of flowers in the room
	The faint reminder of their presence here,
Has wakened thoughts as sweet as their perfume.
	And like the sunbeams full of warmth and cheer.
The pansies smile at me with eyes so blue,
	I press my lips to them and think of you.

So long, alas! we two have dwelt apart.
	Life has bestowed her meed of toil and tears
[-]nd shadowed days upon my eager heart;
	But now, at peace, I gaze across the years,
And thankful am for all the good and true
Which has been mine, and most of all for you.

Fate separates, but distance cannot harm
	The sweet companionship which once was ours,
Nor take from me the memory of you charm.
	Which wakens with the fragrance of these
		flowers;
No years of absence ever can undo  
The bonds of tenderness which cling to you.

Across the years I hear your loving voice, 
	Urging me always to some higher aim,
When I have won I know that you rejoice;
	When I have failed you grieve but do not blame.
If in my humble way some good I do,
I owe it to those other years and you.
				JENNIE NOONAN WHELESS.


AUGUST TWILIGHT.
With downward pointing horns, the ghostly
		moon,
	Omen of draught, hangs midway of the west,
The hidden locust thrills his ancient tune
	Of dying summer, and the cricket’s din
Sounds louder, as if frosts had touched his breast
	And strain’d to sharps his little violin.

There is a purple dusk about the world.
	Like asters all diffused in airs, and deep
Within the grayish-golden west impearled, 
	The evening star seems like a flow’r’s white
		soul, 
Flown there to bide above its kin and weep
	While winter’s icy sickle works them dole. 

From tree to tree the katydid disputes, 
	And the shrill-sounding locusts rasp their wings, 
And tree-toads with their hesitant soft flutes
	Piping low queries, list and pipe again. 
The frost-fear trembles in all creature things
	And every voice seems prophecy of pain.
						JAMES BUCKHAM.


[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)
	The next Sunday came and I tried hard to
get my oldest brother to go with me to
meeting, but his wife and my mother over-
powered me and prevented him, so I went
alone.
	That day when I arrived there one of the
Elders told me that a new meeting house
had been opened about two miles from
where I lived. This was very good news
to me.
	After the forenoon meeting I went home,
thinking to go to this new place. I asked
my brother if he would go with me and he
said that he would like to go, for he had
heard nothing of Mormonism but what I
had told him. His wife was always un-
willing for him to go, but he went. When
we had gone about half of the way, for the
first time my strength failed me and I
fainted dead away. My brother caught me
and after some time I revived and we pro-
ceeded on our way. It was very dark and
cold and we knew nothing about where the
place of meeting was. My brother called at
a house and asked if they would tell him
where Mr. Coleman lived. They answered
that he was a Mormon and asked if we
were, to which my brother answered
no. Then they told him and after awhile
we succeeded in finding the place.
	Weak and tired as I was when we arrived
we were welcomed by all. They had heard
how I had embraced the Gospel and the
opposition and unkindness I had received.

[Column 2]
Many kind and encouraging words were
spoken to me, advising me to hold fast to
the truth.
	There were several there whom I had 
met in the Methodist chapel, and we were
glad to see each other, and to know that we
had embraced the truth together. Some
bore their testimony, and one lady spoke in
an unknown tougue. This was all new to
me and to my brother. We felt well paid
for the effort we had made. Brother Chris-
topher Layton was one of those who had
joined the Church and left the Methodist
chapel.
	When I reached home that night my
father had just gone up stairs to go to bed.
I started to speak in an unknown tongue.
My mother cried out for father, saying that
those Mormons had bewitched her child;
she seemed much distressed. I could not
stop for some time, but when I could talk I
told that it was common in the Church and
that we had heard it that night in meeting.
I did not know what I had said, but my
mother was never so unkind to me after. I
often thought it was one way of softening
the hearts of my parents.
	I worked hard with my brother all that
week, and on the next Sunday he was bap-
tized; This was in February. After that
I had some one to go with me to meetings.
	Our next task was to get his wife to go
with us. There were people being added
from time to time. In April there were a
great number and among the number was
my brother’s wife. After that we did not
rest until we got our mother to go to the
meetings. She soon began to think that
there was something in Mormonism more
than she had thought. She was well ac-
quainted with the Bible and knew that what
I had told her of the Gospel, and what the
Elders preached was Bible doctrine, and
she became more troubled in her mind, for
she had much sectarian folly to overcome.
She had been a strict Baptist from her
childhood, and never did anything on Sun-
day but go to meeting and read the Bible.
	My father was not at all religious, and did
not care to go anywhere on Sunday, and
that made it hard for mother. But she
tried to bring us up as she had been brought
up, to honor the Sabbath. We labored
hard with her, and finally the prejudice
gave way. The Lord seemed to enlighten
her mind, she overcame her feelings and
about the middle of May she applied for
baptism. That was a day for rejoicing in
our family. I freely forgave all of her un-
kindness to me, for I was so thankful to my
Heavenly Father. From the day of her
baptism she was true to her covenants.
She never went into a sectarian church
again. My father never troubled himself
about where we went and he would not go
with us.
	When the weather was warm enough the
Elders were told to go and hold services in
the streets. My brother and I used to be
one with them, and stand by them while
they preached. I have often been to two
meetings and then walked six miles to at-
tend an open air meeting, then returned;
but I always thought it was the kingdom of
God first. I never feared what any one
thought about me, I tried to live above re-
proach.
	The lady I had done needlework for sent
word that she desired me to do more if I
were well enough, although my mother
had told me that Lady Jane Pym would
not employ me any more if she found that I
was a Mormon. But she did not trouble 

[Column 3]
me. When she sent for me I went to the
mansion and asked to see the lady. In a
few minutes the butler came and took me to
the lady’s room. When I appeared before
her she looked at me and said:
	“Sarah, I am pleased to see you. Are
you able to sew again?”
	I told her that I was. She then spoke of
my not being at church any since I took
sick. I told her no, I had not been there
any, nor I did not intend to go any more,
for I had joined the Mormon Church.
	She looked at me and said, “What, as
young as you are? What do you know
about religion?”
	I said that I did know that the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was right.
	She asked if my mother allowed it, but I
told her that the Lord had shown me that
it was right and I joined for myself. I
was then asked whether I could tell her
what I believed, and then I explained to
her that we believed in faith in God, re-
pentance, baptism for the remission of sins
and the laying on of hands for the gift of
Holy Ghost; also that we believed in the
Bible and the Book of Mormon. There
were no more questions this time, but told
me to go the work room and tell the maid
to get me what I wanted.
	When I went again she sent for me to
come to her room. On entering she began
questioning me about our Church. These
I answered as well as I could. I then
asked her if she would not like to read
the Book of Mormon. She expressed a de-
sire to read it, so I brought it for her. I
used to ask the Lord before I went to give
me wisdom to talk to her, for she was a
bright, educated lady, while I was an illi-
terate person, and untrained. I took her
the book and she kept it about six weeks,
and when she gave it to me she said that it
was a wonderful book. Her husband,
Squire Pym, was greatly interested in it, so
she said. I offered to lend them some
tracts to read, which she accepted, and I
took them to her. She had known me from
my childhood and had known my father
and mother many years. They knew I
had never been taught these things by
man, and whenever I would take my
work to her she would not only sit and
listen to me explain the Gospel in my weak
way but would have her oldest daughter
come in and listen. They were always
very kind to me and I felt very anxious
that everybody should understand the Gos-
pel, for I was as sure that it was the truth
restored to earth as I was that the sun rose.
	When I was in my seventeenth year I
had another sick spell, but was often ad-
ministered to by the Elders. There was a
law in England that compelled every one
to have a doctor in attendance when sick-
ness came, for that reason I was obliged to
have the doctor come. I have never had
very good health. And I sometimes think
that it is for my good; had I always been
well I might have wandered from the path
of truth and right, for I had such a strong
will-power. I always had a desire to lead
out in some way that I thought would be
profitable to me. I used to work very hard 
with my needle, and I was taught never to
spend my time idly; for before I was six
years old I had made enough of what was
called pillow lace to buy me a new dress.
That dress I shall always remember, for
young as I was my mother let me select it
for myself. It was a green and white, and
was never so proud of any other dress.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 15 & OCT. 1, 1900


WOMEN’S MEETINGS.
	The regular annual business meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society will
be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on
Monday, October 1, at two o’clock p. m.
All officers and members of the society are
cordially invited to attend and participate in
the business of the meeting.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, in this city, on Thursday,
October 4, meetings commencing at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m. It is desired that there
should be a large attendance of the mem-
bers, and that each Stake organization
should be represented by its president, or
some one aifthorized to act for her. A
cordial invitation is extended to the Bishops
and all brethren interested in the welfare of
the society, also the Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary Association.
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
						President.
		JANE S. RICHARDS
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
		SARAH JENNE CANNON,
						Counselors.
	B. WELLS, Secretary.


A MOST EVENTFUL YEAR.
	The many remarkable events transpir
ing in the world at the present time cannot
fail to impress any one of a thoughtful
habit of mind with a deep feeling of awe
and solemnity, to say the least, and to a
religious nature the tendency must be to-
wards the cultivation of a higher spiritual
life; and to the Latter-day Saint it is like
the opening of a series of prophecies the
fulfilling of which we have been told from
year to year and from time to time.
	Only during the present year, the close
of the nineteenth century, pause and con-
sider how many telling events have taken
place, and in view of the dire consequences
of these occurrences think what disaster,
grief and fatal ravages have followed fam-
ine, desolation and death, carrying off
millions of human beings, while the careless
and indifferent still pursue the pleasures
and pastimes of the hour, heeding not the
judgments that are sweeping the earth
with devastating floods and fires and
plagues, and they see not neither do they


understand. Assuredly it would seem the
Lord has come out of His hiding place to
take vengeance on those who have been
disobedient unto His commandments and
have held Him in dishonor and scorn.
	These are the signs of the times that are
spoken of as ushering in the coming of the
Son of Man. Therefore, it behooves the
Latter day Saints who have been warned
and forewarned of these disturbances to
draw near to the Lord in humility and
faith, that they may claim the promise that
the destroying angel shall pass them by.
	The terrible catastrophe at Galveston
cannot fail to make men’s hearts sicken for
fear—a great city full of life and of wealth
swept away by the tempest in a few brief
hours, like a visitation of the wrath of the
Almighty. The bravest men and women 
naturally shrink from witnessing such
fearful suffering, and yet truly noble are
those, who, though tender and sympathetic,
ordinarily unable to endure the sight
of extreme distress, go to the rescue
of their fellow beings in times of their
direst need.
	The Red Cross Society, with the great,
magnanimous Clara Barton at their head,
lost no time in going to the scene of the
Galveston calamity. And though Miss
Barton succumbed to physical weakness
and had to be taken to her home, yet the
work she had planned will be executed by
her able assistants; and though it may be
utterly impossible to reach all cases of
sickness and destitution, yet it is good to
know the milk of human kindness flows
still in the breasts of many thousands of
men and women, who esteem it a sacred
duty to minister and succor those whom
misfortune has overtaken unawares,
and so fulfill the law of Christ, “Bear ye
one another’s burdens.”
	It is quite impossible to go into the de-
tails of the outrages, atrocities and crimes
perpetrated by fiends in human form dur-
ing the last few months in foreign lands.
One cannot help echoing the words of the
poet, Cowper—
“My soul is sick with every day’s report  
Of wrong and outrage with which earth is filled.”


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	It was with sincere regret that we learned
of the illness of our beloved friend and
woman’s benefactor, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, and we hope and pray and trust
that ere this she has entirely recovered.
Miss Anthony’s name is a household word
in the United States and across the sea she
is held in reverence and honored every-
where, in the mansions of the great and
noble of the lands, and in the cottages of
the people. America has reason to be
justly proud of a woman who alone and
single-handed has carried out such a re-
markable destiny and carved along with
her thousands of other women, who, but for
the paths she has broken over rough and
untrodden ways, might never have attained
to the higher views of life's perspective
where they can look out into the broader
fields of human liberty and higher pro-
gression.
	Tuesday, September 5, President Lorenzo
Snow gave the brothers and sisters en-
gaged in the Temple work, an excursion to 
Saltair, in which by invitation Presidents
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith and
several of the Apostles and others joined
the party. Everything passed off pleasantly

[Column 2]
and the affair was a most agreeable recre
ation to those whose time is constantly em-
ployed in special service to benefit and bless
the living and the dead. We acknowledge
with sincere thanks an invitation to be one
of the numerous guests ot the occasion, and
regret that circumstances prevented our
making one of such a delightful party.
	Mrs. Mary Urquhart Lee, the teacher of
“Parliamentary Law and the Cultivation of
the Speaking Voice and other Mediums of
Expression” is in the city at the Kenyon
and has classes daily in both these depart-
ments of her work. Mrs. Lee is a delight-
ful person to be associated with even for a
time. Her methods are entirely new and
seemingly very original. Her talks are in-
tensely interesting. She has awakened
quite an interest among club women and
others, and her drills in organized classes
are quite wonderful. She spares no pains to
make the classes attractive and to demon-
strate clearly her ideas of physical perfection
in grace and poise. Even a few lessons are
helpful, and to those who take a full course
must be decidedly beneficial. Mrs. Lee is
a noted authority on Parliamentary Law in
America, so much so that several news-
paper men and lawyers have at times joined
her classes. She gives the most essential
points that she has acquired by years of
study and experience in teaching. The
women of Salt Lake may congratulate
themselves upon having this fine opportun-
ty of being taught by one so accomplished
in style and manner, so brilliant in conver-
sation and so bright and sparkling in all her
ways as to give one the impression that she
is in love with life and brave enough to
face all its vicissitudes. Mrs. Lee is vigor-
ous and self-possessed, broad-minded in her
views of the world of mankind and a
thorough cosmopolitan. She is pleased
with Salt Lake and it is to be regretted she
cannot stay longer in Utah.
	On Friday, September 21, an At Home
was given by Sister Priscilla Jennings which
was a most enjoyable gathering of choice
sisters. Her elegant rooms were brightened
with autumn flowers and leaves, the Utah
sunflower being, perhaps, the most con-
spicuous. Music on the pianola by pro-
fessional musicians added to the pleasure
of the afternoon. Of the sixty-seven invi-
tations issued to the sisters nearly all were
present to partake of the cordial hospitality
of the hostess, whose tact and geniality
make her “Teas and Parties” interesting
and thoroughly attractive. The meeting
of old friends under such favorable arrange-
ments for enjoyment is a positive luxury
to the sisters who devote themselves, their
time and ability to Church work, chari-
table and philanthropic, in addition to
home duties and obligations. Among the
venerable Mothers in Israel present were
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elizabeth
Webb, Mary Alice Lambert and many
other women whose good works entitle
them to a high place in the history of the
Latter-day Saints. It is needless to say
that the tables were elegant in appearance
and the refreshments delicious and appe-
tizing. President Zina D. H. Young, by
request of Mrs. Jennings, pronounced the
blessing when the guests were all seated at
the numerous tables, large and small, in
the handsome dining room and library.
Mrs. Jennings is an ideal hostess, and this
last party was a delightful success, as al[-]
who participated in it will certainly agree


[Column 1]
and say long may Sister Jennings live to be
a benefit and blessing, a light and an ex-
ample to her numerous posterity and her
many friends.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Fourteenth
Ward gave a banquet on the evening of
their regular meeting, Tuesday, September
11, in the ward hall. Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
the superintendent, assisted by her coun-
selors and members, making such prepar-
ations as to assure the comfort and enjoy-
ment of all invited guests. The distin-
guished guest of the occasion, in whose
honor the party was given, was the highly
esteemed General President of this great
organization of young ladies, Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor, who for more than twenty years
has labored unremittingly for the benefit of
the young women of Zion, and whose
seventieth birthday occurred on the 12th of
September. About two hundred people
were present and joined in celebrating the
birthday party, even though it was the
evening previous to the eventful day. Miss
Campbell made the address of welcome after
all had been seated at the tables, which were
profusely decorated with a variety of beauti-
ful flowers; the ivy twined about the plates
at each place was a dainty device and 
artistic in effect. Bishop George H. Taylor
pronounced the blessing after all were 
seated. Superintendent Ruth M. Fox was
busy here and there attending to all her
guests and genial as the autumn sunshine.
After everything had been arranged Sister
Fox announced that the young people
would give some humorous anecdotes,
jokes and witticisms including conundrums.
Their departure from the usual method of
procedure was a source of merriment and
prevented any tendency to eulogize the
honored lady, who is deeply sensitive and
dislikes public demonstrations on her own 
account, preferring appreciation in simpler
ways and in deeds rather than words.
After the young folks had given some not-
able exhibitions of good humor, Sister Fox
called upon Sister E. B. Wells to make a 
few remarks, in which she referred feelingly
to the labors of Sister Taylor and the future 
destiny of the young people of Zion. Elder
C. W. Penrose followed, beginning with
some quaint stories and merging into more
serious matters. The party was an admir-
able success in the way of solid enjoyment
and social equality, and cannot fail to have 
good results. Patriarch John Smith pro-
nounced the benediction previous to the
company dispersing.
	Miss Helen Margaret Ring, of Denver,
Colorado, recently visited our city and spent
a few days, during which time we had
several talks with her and found her a most
fascinating personality and brilliant conver-
sationalist. Miss Ring has traveled ex-
tensively and very recently visited Mexico
and Arizona also Mancos in New Mexico,
where she explored the ancient cliff dwellers
habitations and other places of special
interest to anthropologists. Miss Ring gave
her lecture on “Famous Women of the
French Salon” in the Congregational
Church under the auspices of the W. C. T.
U. of this city, Friday evening, September
7. She was introduced to the audience by
Mrs. E. E. Shepherd in a graceful manner,
and her own appearance was most attractive.
Her delineations of character were toned to
perfection, surpassing any lecture it has
been our privilege to hear. In fact she
brought the persons before one in pictures
so vivid that imaginative people might fancy

[Column 2]
the scenes transpiring upon the platform.
Miss Ring gave herself for the time being to 
her subject and that is what always wins
an audience of intelligent people. Miss 
Ring is original and that, too, is a strong
point in one’s career in this day of
mechanical technique. We very much re-
gret that she could not remain longer in our
city and hope we may hear her again at
some future time. The ladies of the W. C.
T. U. secured excellent music for the eve-
uning. The singing, too, was sweet and
uplifting. The entire affair was a rare treat.
	Friday, September 7, the Relief Society
of the Eighth Ward of this city, held its
annual meeting at which were present of the
General Board, Presidents Zina D. H.
Young, Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith, also the secretary, E. B. Wells,
and President M. Isabella Horne, of the
Salt Lake Stake, and her counselors, Annie
T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon, and General
President Elmina S. Taylor, of the Y. L.
N. M. I. A., and some other guests—Presi-
dent Chamberlain presiding, her counselors,
Cartwright and Shelmardine, were in at-
tendance and the faithful secretary, Sister
Piggot. The hall was beautiful decorated
with a variety of flowers, that were a perfect
delight and added greatly to the enjoyment
of the afternoon. Counselor Cartwright
was present and Bishop E. J. Sheets came 
in during the meeting. The remarks by
the veteran Mothers in Israel, Sisters Zina,
Jane S. Richards, B. W. Smith and M. I.
Horne were deeply appreciated, as they
were mostly reminiscent of the early days
of the Relief Society and of the Church.
Sisters E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor, Annie
T. Hyde, Clara C. Cannon and Bishop
Sheets also each spoke a short time. After
the meeting had adjourned all were invited
to partake of a delicious supper (really a
banquet) in the large and commodious
vestry, where everything was delightfully
arranged for the enjoyment of the partici-
pants. On such occasions the Relief Society
is active and fully competent to minister in
the best and most happifying manner.
Bishop Sheets occupied the seat of honor
and pronounced the blessing. The tables
were artistically decorated with roses, car-
nations, oleanders and other sweet and at-
tractive blossoms, and the good cheer was
an added flavor to the sumptuous feast.
Sister E. B. Wells was called upon by
President Chamberlain to give a toast, and
responded with “The Mothers in Israel,”
those who had passed behind the veil, but who
still live in memory and whose names and
noble deeds should be held in humble remem-
brance throughout all time. Bishop Sheets
also gave a toast, “The Veteran Fathers of
the Church, Prophets and Apostles.” This
reunion of the Relief Society was both a
spiritual and temporal feast, and the social
enjoyment helps to unite in closer relations
those who meet together for active work
and service in the society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISS ANTHONYS ADVICE TO MOTHERS
	Only the opening paragraphs of Miss
Anthony’s greetings were read before the
Congress, and although, local leaders pre-
sented some suffrage resolutions, they were
suppressed. Leaders in the Congress
deemed it unwise to take up the snbject lest
inharmony arise. Miss Anthony’s letter
was as follows:
	MY DEAR FRIEND;—I am in receipt of your

[Column 2]
letter asking for a letter to the National Congress
of Mothers. It is true, as you say, that I am al
ways a very busy woman; nevertheless I always
have time to give my word of sympathy to every
organization for the betterment of the world.
	I have watched the progress of the Congress of
Mothers with a great deal of interest. Women can
find no more important work than a study of
the best ways and means for performing their
duties to their children.
	I trust those who are assembled in Des Moines
will not fail to recognize that the duty of the
mother does not lie entirely within the four walls of
the home, but that it extends also to the making
and controlling of the conditions which surround
these children when they go beyond the home.
	For this purpose she must have a voice in the
government of the municipality of the State and
nation. Not only the ordinances of the Common
Council, but the laws made by the Legislature and
by the Congress itself, vitally effect the conditions
which influence the home.
	Another strong reason why the mother should
have a voice in political matters—should possess
the power to make and unmake both laws and
lawmakers—is in order that the children shall con-
sider her opinions of as much value as those of the
f[---]er
	It seems to me, therefore, that the very first thing
that should be done by the National Congress of
Mothers is to demand for all women perfect
equality of political rights.
	Enclosed is a petition to Congress for a sixteenth
amendment to the Federal Constitution w[-]ich shall
enfranchise women. In the name of motherhood I
urge that this body, by its president and secretary
shall sign this petition. To procure the powerful
influence of the ballot is in direct line with the ob-
jects of this association, for whatever you may de-
cide to be the paramount duties of the mothers, its
possession will the better enable her to discharge
them.
	Hoping that you will have an interesting and
instructive Congress, and with kind regards to all
its members, I am very sincerely yours,
				SUSAN B. ANTHONY.

R. S. REPORTS.
	The Stake presidency of the Relief Soci-
ety of Bannock Stake, President Mary A
Call, Counselors Sarah M. Call and Rosa
B. Knowles, and Secretary Hannah C.
Hatch, have made their annual visit through
the Stake, their starting point being the
Lund ward. President Letitia Banks re-
ported the society as being in a flourishing
condition, the teachers making their regu-
lar monthly visits without fail and keeping
an accurate account of the articles received,
so that in any case their books could be re-
ferred to as being reliable.
	The visitors each bore a faithful testi-
mony and gave some excellent advice, the
main subjects being the storing of wheat,
fasting and prayer and also a few words to
mothers on the rearing of their children.
	We were entertained at Sister Bevins.
	The two next wards visited were
Thatcher and Cleveland. The attendance
in both wards was very slim owing to the
prevalence of a contagious disease
among the people, although the disease is
almost abated, there being no new cases.
We held meeting in both wards and gave
some good instructions to the attending
sisters. The next meeting was held at
Mound Valley. The spirit of God was
manifest in the meeting. The visitors
were kindly treated and spent the night at
Sister Barbara Williams.
	The next place visited was Trout Creek,
where we lunched with President Mary
Jensen, then held meeting in the meeting
house, where the good instructions that
were given were kindly received.
	The next place was Grace. We traveled
late to get there, in wind and dust. We
were kindly entertained by the Relief
Society president, Sister Rich. We had a
better attendance there than in the previous
wards and a good spirit prevailed. Then


[Column 1]
we were kindly entertained for dinner at
Sister Sullivans.
	Sods Springs was the next place visited,
where we enjoyed the delightful soda water.
President Lau received us and we had a
good meeting. From there we went to the
branch of the Lund ward and organized a
branch of the Relief Society.
	We had a good attendance of both
brethren and sisters, a good spirit was
manifest and some good instructions given.
	Sister Cramer was sustained as president,
and Sister Peck and Sister Hedda Anderson
as her counselors, and Sister Jergeson as
secretary and treasurer.
	The next place visited was Ten Mile, a
branch of Hatch ward, where we had a
good attendance. The many subjects
handled were unity, charity and the storing
of grain. We were entertained by Presi-
dent Esther Banks in her usual genial sty[---]
	The next meeting was held at Hatch
ward, where there was the largest attend-
ance, according to their number, all being
present who had their names enrolled except
two. A good spirit prevailed and many
good instructions were given.
	The last meeting was held at Chesterfield.
President Columbia Loveland, of Chester-
field, gave a good report of the society. Felt
weak in her position, yet willing to go
ahead and do her best. The Stake presi-
dency gave some good instructions and en-
couraged the sisters and said that they had
enjoyed their visit through the Stake very
much, and thought the sisters were doing
a good work in this part of the Lord’s vine-
yard.
		HANNAH C. HATCH, Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake was held in the
Assembly Hall, Saturday, September 8,
1900, President Horne presiding. Meeting
opened at ten a. m. by singing, “Once more
we come before our God.” Prayer by Cor-
responding Secretary Maria W. Wilcox.
Officers present on the stand. President M.
Isabella Horne; Counselors A. T. Hyde and
C. C. Cannon; General Presidents Z. D. H.
Young and B. W. Smith; Sisters M. W.
Wilcox, J. C. Howe, E. J. Stevenson and
Emma A. Empey.
	Conference continued by singing, “O
Jesus, the Giver.” Minutes of morning
session of previous conference, held March
5, 1900, read and accepted.
	President Horne made opening remarks.
Regretted that no more were present today.
The last conference had to be omitted and
we had really not held a conference for six
months. “Where there is a will, there is a
way,” and if the sisters had a party or a
parade to attend they could find time to go.
The things of the world should not take the
place of the things of the kingdom. I wish
every one would read the 3rd chapter of
Isaiah. The young people of this day in the
kingdom do not have the trials and the
hardships to endure that their parents and
grandparents had. If we do not listen to
the promptings of the Spirit we will regret
it greatly in the time to come. We do many
things that it would be better to leave un-
done. Presidents talk of these things in
your societies, urge the young women to
come and assist in the Relief Society.”
	The financial and statistical reports were
read by the secretary, also the treasurer’s
report and all accepted.
	Superintendent Empey gave a report of

[Column 2]
the nurses. There are twenty-five nurses
who are ready to answer any call for charity.
“I am pleased to say that there have been
only four cases of extreme destitution that
we have had to provide for. There is a
good spirit among the nurses and they are
willing to work wherever they are needed.
Those who have done the most charity
work are those who are willing to do more.
I have enjoyed my work, though it has been
quite hard at times, but we understand the
work now, so that in future it will not be so
difficult. I do not think there is any need
of any one who is suffering to lack attention.
There are many who do not feel like accept-
ing charity, and this is commendable.
Such cases should not suffer, but can pay a
small amount. There are two of the nurses
who do only charity work, they will not
accept pay, but give their time freely when
required by the poor.”
	Reports were then given from the First
Ward, President Steel The reports gener-
ally showed that the different associations
were in good condition.
	Second Ward, President Bassett. She
said they had adopted a plan of working in
the Temple one day a month for the poor.
	Third Ward, President Smith; Fifth
Ward, Sister Pettit; Sixth Ward, President
West; Eighth Ward, Sister Chamberlain;
Ninth Ward, reported by teacher; Tenth,
Ward, President Paul; Eleventh Ward, re-
ported by the counselor; Twelfth Ward by
President Druce.
	President Horne made closing remarks,
approving what had been reported. Hoped
the house would be filled this afternoon.
	Meeting adjourned till two p. m. Sing-
ing, “Our God we raise to Thee.” Bene-
diction by Sister B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session. In addition to those
present in the morning, there were Apostles
Young and Grant and President Joseph E.
Taylor and President Elmina S. Taylor.
	Meeting commenced by singing “Come
come, ye Saints” by members of the Tem-
ple choir. Opening prayer by Sister Sarah
J. Cannon. Singing, “Lord we come be-
fore Thee now.” Minutes of afternoon ses-
sion of previous conference held March 5
read and accepted.
	President Horne was pleased to announce
that Apostles Young and Grant were with
us and we will be pleased to hear from
them during the afternoon. First we will
hear from our “mother,” Sister Zina D. H.
Young.
	Sister Young spoke in a most feeling
and interesting way. Gave many incidents
of great interest connected with her event-
ful life. “When I hear the sisters pray for
me I think ‘O, am I worthy?’ Let us try
to be cheerful, be upright, be honest. Let
us be an example to our children. How
thankful we should be for good parents.
I pray that we may all be obedient and
strive to keep the Spirit of the Lord.
	President B. W. Smith spoke of the sis-
ters. Urged all to be faithful, honest,
truthful and virtuous, that we may merit
the blessings of God.
	Sister S. J. Cannon followed, expressing
her gratitude for the privilege of attending
these meetings. It is a greater work than
we realize.
	President Joseph E. Taylor said we should
try to create circumstances rather than to be
controlled by them. “We are crowded so
much by the affairs of the world that it
would seem that we hardly have time to
serve the Lord. I have enjoyed hearing

[Column 3]
he testimonies of the sisters from their rich
experiences, and we should treasure them
up. I have been urging the young sisters
to come to the front and relieve and assist
the older sisters, take advice from them, and
profit by their experience.
	“President Brigham Young said: ‘God
will hold you responsible for the faith of
your children.’ The mothers have too many
household cares, they should be relieved in
a measure, that they may have more time
to cultivate their children. There is an in-
fluence at work in the world that tends to
limit the bearing of children and this in-
fluence is creeping in among us. I wish to
urge upon you sisters that wherever you
hear a whisper of this, use your influence
against it. What was the greatest blessing
and promise to Abraham? Offspring. There
are some that through physical causes are
deprived of this great blessing and who
mourn over this condition. To such I
would say be faithful and prayerful and the
time will come that you shall have this
great blessing and you shall rejoice.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde would like to
have these meetings once a week, that we
might meet together and receive instruction.
Teachers should visit the sisters, not simply
to gather donations, but to give spiritual
advice and aid and to relieve the suffering.
The work of the nurses is very praise-
worthy. The two years for which this first
class was engaged is nearly over and we
wish to have another class started. Presi-
dents should find out how many would like
to join. If there are any among the young
ladies, would be pleased to have them join.
If there are any in adjoining Stakes who
can come, they will be admitted.
	President Horne spoke to presidents and
secretaries: “Be sure to have your reports
in on time.” Was surprised to hear that in
some of the wards children were sent around
to gather donations. This is not right, but
the sisters should go to give counsel and
comfort to the Saints.
	Apostle Brigham Young said all that he
had heard this afternoon was in harmony
with his thoughts. “The work of the Re-
lief Society is a labor of love without hope
of reward in this life. The duties are
onerous, many of them disagreeable. In
the pioneer days my mother’s home was a
hospital. Strangers, sometimes a half
dozen at a time, were cared for when they
were sick unto death. The Relief Society
is a power for good in Zion. Ever since I
can remember I have heard the voices of
these good women raised in defense of the
right, for good, for purity of life in public
and in private. Their voices by and by
will be stilled. Their experience is like re-
fined gold, and more precious than gold are
their words. Those who are not here to
listen to them will be the losers. In relation
to what the Prophet said concerning the
duties of mothers, I do know that the Lord
never requires anything of His son or His
daughter that is impossible.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant followed. “Ac-
cording to the number present the sisters
have done better today than we did at our
conference. There are many who have the
letter of the Gospel, but not the spirit.
There is nothing truer than has been said,
that the right spirit is obtained by attend-
ing our meetings. The adversary has no
power over a faithful man or woman. When
we follow the advice and counsel of those
in authority all will come out right. Gave
several instances in proof of this. When


we do not partake of the right spirit and 
have the letter only, then we go wrong. 
"If each sister here will make up her mind to
bring some one else here with her for your
next conference she can do it. I echo all 
the sentiments of respect and love for the 
aged sisters and for all the sisters who are 
faithful. After all is said and done it is the 
faithful mothers in Zion that make the faith-
ful children."
	President Horne felt very thankful for
the good words from our brethren. "Re-
member what has been said and profit by it."
Also felt grateful to the singers. Adjourned
conference until December 1. Singing, 
"O God, our help in ages past." Benedic-
tion by Counselor Clara C. Cannon. 
	AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	SISTER MARY ALMINA WATKINS.

	Sister Mary Almina Watkins passed from this
life April 29, 1900, after an illness of over six
months. She was the daughter of John and
Louisa Parker Hammond, and was borne at Ma-
lone, Franklin Co., New York, December 4, 1827.
She was baptized when a child, her parents having
embraced the Gospel in the early days of the
Church. They left their home and joined the
Kirtland company. Circumstances did not permit 
them to reach Nauvoo until 1842.
	There she was married to William S. Watkins
December 4, 1844. Together they enjoyed the
association of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his
brother, Hyrum, and passed through the sorrow
and persecution endured by the Saints at the time
of their martyrdom.
	In 1846 they left Nauvoo and in 1848 located near
Kanesville, Council Bluffs. Here they remained
until 1852 when they crossed the plains, arriving
in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 12, of that
year. Just a few days prior to entering the Salt
Lake valley, Sister Watkins gave birth to a daugh-
ter.
	Afterwards they located in Big Cottonwood in
what is known now as the Holliday settlement.
They moved from there to Brigham City in 1861,
at which place she resided until her death. She
was associated with the order of celestial marriage
and proved a faithful, loving helpmate to her hus-
band and family. Twelve children were born to
her, nine of whom were living at the time of her
death, and all of them are members of the Church.
	Sister Watkins served as a teacher in the Relief
Society of Brigham City from its first organization
until the city was divided into wards in 1868, she
was then chosen president of the 4th ward. This
position she held up to the time of her death, She
was always found faithful to her trust and was a
comfort and a help to those in sorrow or need. It
was always a delight to her to bear her testimony
to the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith and
to tell of her life and good works to the young
people.
	The following resolutions were unanimously
adopted at a recent meeting of the Relief Society of
the 4th ward of Brigham City:

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
His infinite love and mercy to call home our be-
loved president, Mary Almina Watkins, therefore.
	Resolved, That in her death the Relief Society
has lost a staunch and valiant worker, one who
was ever ready to give a helping hand and cheer-
ing word to those in need.
	That we, her associates, have lost a faithful,
loving sister, and that we will miss her wise
counsel and advice. but we feel that our loss will
be her gain.
	That we present a copy of these resolutions to
her bereaved husband and family to express our
love and appreciation of her good works, also that
a copy be forwarded to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication and a copy be placed on file in the
ward record book.
					SARAH J. WILDE.
					EMMA F. CRAWFORD,
								Counselors. 
					LIZZIE WRIGHT,
								Secretary.
					ADELINE PARKER,
								Asst. Sec.
					MARIA HANSEN,
								Treasurer.


[Column 1]
GRANITE STAKE.
The first conference of the Relief Society
of the Granite Stake of Zion was held at
the Mill Creek meeting house, August I,
1900, Counselor Mary P. Young presiding.
Meeting opened at ten o’clock a. m.
Singing, “How firm a foundation.” Prayer
by Counselor James R. Miller. Singing,
“The Spirit of God.”
On the stand were Counselors Mary P.
Young and Katharine H. Brockbank, Maria
B. Winder and Armeda S. Young, of the
Granite Stake Relief Society; also Counselor
James R. Miller and Stake Clerk Thomas
Alston and Assistant Superintendent Rich-
ard Horne, of the Sunday School.
All the presidents of wards were present
excepting Mountain Dell.
The secretary called the roll, showing
thirty-one ward officers present and four
Stake officers. The secretary read a brief
outline of the conference at Mill Creek,
where the new Stake of Granite was organ-
ized with the Relief Society and the other
organizations, January 28, 1900, also noted
the visiting tour of the president, Frank Y.
Taylor, to every ward in the new Stake, as
the Relief Society president and officers were
honored with the privilege of accompanying,
him with all the other officers in the Stake;
read the account of the number of Stake
officers’ meetings since the Stake was organ-
zed, five in number; the visits President
Emma Woodruff with her officers had made
in the different wards were at Taylorsville,
May 8, 1900; South Cottonwood, May 17;
Big Cottonwood, May 23; Mill Creek, June
12; East Mill Creek, June 13; Granger
June 15; Mountain Dell, July 15. The re-
port was accepted.
The statistical and financial report of the
last six months was read and approved.
Counselor Mary P. Young called on the
presidents to report their respective wards.
President Sarah B. Gibson reported
Sugar Ward; President Stevenson, Forest
Dale; President Sarah A. Turnbow,
Farmers Ward; President Elizabeth Hill,
Mill Creek; President Ann Eliza B. Neff,
East Mill Creek; President Emily W.
Stevenson, Big Cottonwood; President
Mary Rawlins, South Cottonwood; Presi-
dent Margaret Carruth, Murray Branch;
President Elizabeth Pixton, Taylorsville;
President Mary E. Porter, Granger; Presi-
dent Charlotte Nielson, Hunter.
Each of these sisters gave excellent re-
ports.
Counselor Mary P. Young: “We visited
Mountain Dell about two weeks ago. The
people are in a very scattered condition.
The president has sold her property and in-
tends to move away.”
Brother Hill, of Mill Creek, favored us
with the beautiful song, “The Holy City.”
Counselor James R. Miller said: “It gives
me pleasure to meet with the sisters of the
Relief Soeiety in their first conference. You
will improve from time to time. Next year
you will be better than this year, and so on.
I like the reports from the sisters, think
they have all been well reported. God
bless the sisters of Granite Stake and all
other Stakes.
Elder Richard Horne said: “I am pleased
and glad I came. You have given in good
reports. I have taken note and have, seen
many sick in my mind today and these sis-
ters going among them, I feel to say God
bless these good sisters, for they have laid
their hands on many a fevered brow to com-
fort and bless.” He spoke of the great

[Column 2]
blessings that were in store for the faithful
sisters, and said the will of the Lord will
teach us patience. Spoke of Noah’s day
when he was building the Ark, his patience,
perseverance and obedience. Then came
his reward and the perishing of those who
disobeyed and sinned. Related a dream
which a sister had who had been very in-
different in taking any part in the Relief
Society, but would help with money and
kind words. The Lord saw the good in
this woman and permitted her to have this
dream. She thought she was in heaven in
a large, pleasant room and felt quite satis-
fied and happy with the comfortable and
pleasant surroundings. Throngs of people
were passing to and fro. A very few passed
her and went through a doorway which
was opened slightly a short distance ahead
of her. She began to be anxious and de-
sirous-of seeing what was in the other room.
As the door opened she caught a glimpse
inside. It was so beautiful and glorious
s[-]e thought she would enter. As she
[---]ose and started that way a hand was laid
[--]on her shoulder and a voice said, “You
[--]nnot enter there. It requires a greater
work than you have done before you can
e[-]ter there. This left a great impression
w[-]th her and she took hold in the Relief
Society and all other good works with much
interest and earnestness.
Brother Holm: “I am happy, my broth-
ers and sisters, to live upon the earth and
belong to the Relief Society. We have
many in this conference who have sacrificed
pleasure and sat by the side of the sick. We
[-]ust realize that great responsibilities are
[-]eighing upon us, and we must do them if
we get in that room Brother Horne spoke
of. I rejoice to visit the sick and the poor.
The Lord blesses us because we take care of
the poor. The poor are given us to look
alter. To have the Spirit of the Lord in
our souls is better than all else. God loves
the pure in heart, the meek and the lowly.”
Siister Mary B. Hamilton was pleased to
welcome all present in behalf of the Mill
Creek Ward and extend an invitation for
them to partake of the lunch prepared in an
adjoining room.
Counselor Mary P. Young made a few
closing remarks and referred to our good
meeting and the many good instructions
that had been given. She moved that a
vote of thanks be extended to the singers
and the young brother who spent his time
in leading the singing, which was carried
unanimously.
Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p. m.
Benediction by Elder Thomas Alston.
(Continued.)


U. W. P. C.
	Minutes of meeting of the Utah Woman’s
Press Club held at the EXPONENT office’
August 31, 1900, President Aimee C.
Schiller in the chair. Prayer by Phebe C.
Young. Roll called. A letter was then
read pertaining to year books, from the
secretary of the Federation, corresponding
secretary instructed to answer it. Mem-
bers present paid ten cents tax for Feder-
ation reception. A paper on the Transvaal
war, by Luella M. Rhodes, proved to be an
excellent one. Current events were given
in an interesting manner by Ella W. Hyde.
Mrs. Rhodes’ paper was discussed by Mrs.
Phebe C. Young and others.
	Miss Helen Margaret Ring, the guest of
the evening, a newspaper woman of Denver,


being invited to address the club, also took
up the paper and said she had never heard a
paper read that covered so much ground in
so short a time. She related some very
nteresting incidents in connection with
Mrs. John Hayes Hammond, while traveling
in Mexico. She threw out some bright
ideas in regard to the subject.
	Meeting adjourned. Dismissed with
prayer by Ella W. Hyde. 
			RUTH M. FOX, Asst. Sec.
PROGRAM FOR SEPTEMBER MEETING. 
	Paper, “Women’s Congresses at the Paris
Exposition,” Emma Jensen; Paper on the
Phillipines, Grace Anderson; Paper on 
China, Dr. R. B. Pratt; Current Events,
Aimee C. Schiller; Original Sentiments,
by members of the club.


40	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WONDERFUL INVENTION
	“Man’s work is from sun to sun
But a woman’s work is never done.”
	Woman has been called the weaker vessel
and yet comparing her labors with those
her companion man, most people
agree that she has the greater burden to
carry. When he starts for work in [-]he
morning, hers has already begun; when he
returns at night, hers has not ended. And,
therefore, we think that any one who can
make life less arduous to her is bene-
factor to the world at large. One of our
young sisters, Mrs. Dora B. Rancher, has
invented a wonderful system of dress cut-
ting which entirely obviates the nec[---]ity of
measurements. This simple little instr[--]
ment is adjusted on the form in less ti[---]
than measures can be taken in the ordinal
way. It is then removed and placed on the
goods to be cut out. No drafting of figur-
ing is required whatever. Some of the
leading dressmakers in Salt Lake City have
used it and are delighted with it.
	This talented little lady is the daughter of
Brother Hyrum Bigelow and Sister Martha
Meecham Bigelow, formerly of Provo,
Utah. For nearly two years she has labored
indefatigably to perfect her invention,
which will soon be upon the market. The
Adjustable Dressfitter cannot fail to make
a mark in this age of progress.
	Our sisters will do well to give it their
careful consideration when they are visited
by her or her agents. Orders can be left at
the Woman’s Coop, 44 Maine St.
				MARY F. KELLY


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. MARTHA A. B. CONINE has been
selected as the Denver delegate to the meet-
ing of the National Municipal League which
meets in Milwaukee on September 19.

	MISS ROSE ELIZABETH CLEVELAND
sister of ex-President Cleveland, and Miss
Ames, daughter of ex-Governor Ames, of
Massachusetts, have bought an old home-
stead in Seven Hundred Acre Island, Me.,

[Column 2]
which they are to have remodelled into a
fine summer residence.
	A NEW monthly magazine will appear in
Boston this month called The Patriotic
Review. It will be published from Septem-
ber to May, inclusive, each year, and will
be devoted to the interest of patriotic and
historical societies throughout the country.
Miss Marion Howard Brazier will be editor
and Miss Ethel Brigham, of Brookline,
manager.
	CLARA BARTON, president of the Red
Cross Society, who was in Galveston, Texas,
to look after the distribution of relief sup-
plies, was suddenly stricken down and is
seriously ill. The physicians were impera-
tive in their orders that she leave for her
home in Washington immediately. She
was taken ill at her rooms in Tremont
Hotel with her staff of nine gathered to-
gether. Miss Barton had just completed an
outline of her work, assigning each mem-
ber of her staff a particular part of the work.
	MISS CLARA BARTON was honored in a
special manner at the reunion of the Grand
Army of the Republic in Chicago. Her
work at the head of the National American
Red Cross has made her name a loved one
among the old soldiers, and they delight in
giving her extraordinary marks of their
appreciation of her services. Miss Barton
was invited to address the Convention which
she did in a stirring speech, which was
loudly applauded. Almost every sentence
evoked a demonstration of some sort.
	The struggles of the Cuban teachers at
the Harvard summer school to learn Eng-
lish furnishes good stories for the Boston
papers. The “Listener” of the Transcript
tells the following:
	One day the teachers were invited to some sort
of an evening function at the Longfellow house on
Battle Street. It happened that shortly before the
hour for the assembly some ladies who were in
front of that house were politely approached by a
group of male Cuban teachers, who, with their
hats in their hands, stood bowing.
	“If you please, dear madams,” said their spokes-
man, “we are invited at this house tonight. We
wish to attend. We were been on an excursion to
the distance, and have not the time to go to our
houses, so that we wear, as you see, our day
dress. Perhaps you can tell us if it would be per-
mitted to us to go to the reception in our day dress?
If it would not, then certainly shall we take the
time to go to our houses and put on our night
dress!”
	The ladies assured them that they would do
much better to go as they were than to put on their
night dress, and they bowed gravely and gratefully
and withdrew.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN 
wash dishes three times each day. If you are on 
of these, wear a pair of "Goodyear" Rubbe
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sen 
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agent 
wanted. Address M. O. Dept., 
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE andsolicit your patronage. We aim to give you 
as much as possible for your money. TRY US. 

[Column 2]
UNION PACIFIC 
THE OVERLAND ROUTE 
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE.
THE
PEOPLE'S
FAVORITE.
Leave Salt Lake City 
No. 6 The "Fast Mail" for Chicago, St. Paul, St. 
Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and 
Park City....................................................7 00 a.m. 
No. 2 The "Overland Limited" for Chicago, St. 
Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and 
Denver.....................................................11 45 a.m. 
No. 4 The "Atlantic Express" for Chicago, St. 
Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver..... 6 40 p.m. 
Arrive Salt Lake City. 
No. 5 The "Fast Mail" from Chicago, St. Louis, 
Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park 
City......................................................... 3 00 p.m. 
No. 1 The "Overland Limited" from Chicago, St. 
Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver.... 3 00 p.m. 
No. 3 The "Pacific Express" from Chicago, St. 
Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and 
Denver........................................................ 3 30 p.m. 
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St. Telephone 665. 
H. M. CLAY, General Agent. 
Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank n Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 
The Most Convenient Local Train Service 
in the State is given by the . . . . . . 
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between 
Salt Lake City and Ogden.....
See that your tickets read via the 
"SHORT LINE" 
And Get the best. 
CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West 
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
S. W. ECCLES, D E. BURLEY, 
Gen'l Tfc. Mgr. G. P. & T. A


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 29	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, & NOVEMBER 1, 1900.	Nos. 10 & 11


CONTENTS.
Current Events.......................Aimee C. Schiller	41
South African Situation.........Luella M. Rhodes	41
An Interesting Journey......................J. H. Allen	42
Letter From Brooklyn...................Belle Shaffer	42
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton....................	43
General Conference Relief Society, E. B. Wells	45
Reapers’ Club...................................J. A. Druce	46
Biographical Sketch............................................	46
Obituaries ...........................................................	47
R. S. Reports.......................................................	47
EDITORIAL—A Hopeful Outlook....................	44
	Editorial Notes............................................	44
POETRY—House of Life..................Lu Dalton	41
	The Wayside Well..............Walter Learned	44


HOUSE OF LIFE.

My Lord built a beautiful house for me,
	With arch and pillar and wall,
With many a chamber fair to see,
And corridor, closet and hall.
The carpets and curtains were rich and fine,
	And every convenience was there;
With workmanship cunning, this dwelling of mine
	Was fashioned and furnished with care.

And I was mistress and owner of all,
	This opulence, beauty and worth,
Like Eve in her garden whom God did install, 
To dress it, the gem of the earth.
I looked from my window and lo, I beheld
	More palaces lovely and grand,
Eclipsing in splendor my own, and dispelled
	Was my joy in both palace and land.

No more did I polish each casement and stair,
	And brush every dust-flake away,
Nor open its windows to woo the sweet air,
	Nor to deck it with garlands so gay,
Its fair rooms grew tarnished and laden with dust,
	And cobwebs hung heavy and gray,
Unloved and abandoned to moth and to rust,
	Its beauty began to decay.

A footstep draws near! my Lord—He is here!
	He gazes in pain and amaze—
"This wreck is the Temple for you I did rear,"
	For shame I could not raise my eyes.
"O, foolish one, what didst thou lack, but the will?
	If these were too narrow for thee,
More stately apartments to plan and to build?
	Who loves not my gift, loves not me."

He passed, and I dared not beseech Him to stay—
	My opened eyes saw clearly now,
How foolish and blind was my envy; straightway
	I made with repentance a vow—
To honor my gift, to fill it with light,
	Embellish and keep it with care,
That henceforth it be in my Lord's kingly sight
	A dwelling place lovely and fair.

When next His dear footsteps draw near to my
		door,
	With gladness I'll usher Him in;
No mildew or rust shall He see as before;—
To restore it at once I’ll begin.
I'll love my dear home for the Giver's sake,
	Nor sight if more stately ones be,
For God, the dear Giver, can make no mistake;
	He knows what is best for me.
							LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
CURRENT EVENTS.
	To crowd the events of a month’s hap-
penings into brief space seems almost an
impossibility. Every day finds the news-
papers filled with accounts of storms, rail-
road accidents, strikes, wars, crimes—in
fact, calamities of every kind, too numerous
to mention.
	Heading the list comes the appalling

[Column 2]
and most heartrending misfortune to the
people of Texas. On September 8 the
city of Galveston was visited by one of the
most terrific storms ever known in this
country. This dreaded hurricane, so ter-
rible in velocity, so destructive in its path,
carrying into the Gulf many thousands of
lives, destroying millions of dollars of
property, was one never to be forgotten.
Every state, every hamlet, sorrows with
Galveston. The shock of the news is still
with us, but hundreds of thousands of
hands are reaching out to help them.
There seems so little to say and so much to
do. Miss Clara Barton and her little band
of faithful workers were, as usual, among
the first to reach the afflicted city. Too
much cannot be said for this noble cause,
the Red Cross, and its untiring workers, al-
ways ready and willing to alleviate the suf-
ferings of their fellow creatures.
	While there are men who think that a
sand island, exposed to storms from the
gulf, will never prove a suitable site for a
great city, the prevailing opinion seems to
be that solidity in construction and proper
sea walls will make the new Galveston
safe, and that its present site is so pecularily
adapted to commerce, that there should be
no thought of abandoning it.
	The presidential campaign is now in full
sway. The headquarters of both papers
are sending out men true to their respective
parties, who tell us the beautiful doctrine
of their party, all of which we are to con-
sume, digest, and last, but not least, vote
upon.
	The distinguished Governor of New
York, and Republican nominee for vice-
president, Mr. Theo. Roosevelt, honored
our beautiful city with a visit during the
month. He was royally entertained and
welcomed, and departed with words of
praise and gratitude for the people of the
liberal-hearted West.
	Several unfortunate holdups took place in
our city. One life was lost, but fortunately
the desperadoes are safely lodged behind the
bars.
	The Goebel murder case still heads the
docket of the Kentucky courts. One man
was sentenced to life imprisonment, one to
death and the trials of all others implicated
in this cowardly crime will fellow in quick
succession.
	The great Anthracite coal strike, by
which 140,000 men were out of employment
has fair prospects of being agreeably settled.
	In California the second week in September
was signalized by the celebration of the
50th anniversary of the state’s admission to
the Union. There were impressive military
parades, naval parades and other festivities,
continuing four days.
	So much noble work has been under-
taken of late along philanthropic lines. I
read with pleasure recently of ladies in
Brooklyn and other Eastern cities starting
free libraries during the summer in parks,
whereby our less fortunate sisters and
brothers had access to books and current
literature while seated under the shade of
trees sheltered from the hot rays of the sun.
Such work is truly noble and commendable.

[Column 3]
	Direct communication between the
United States and Germany was opened
September 1, the route being from New
York to Fayal, thence to Emdew, Ger- 
many. The occasion was signalized by the
exchange of cordial greetings between the
Emperor of Germany and President
McKinley.
	The war in South Africa is now virtually
at an end. Kruger has emigrated and is
now enroute to some foreign port.
	In the Phillipines the situation remains
about the same, continuous gorilla warfare
characterizes the existing state at the pres-
ent time.
	The Chinese situation is more complex
than ever. War clouds are gathering thick
and fast over the far East.
	In concluding this brief review of the
month’s events, I cannot refrain from re-
iterating the sentiments expressed by our
writer of last month’s events, that the day
is not far distant ere the white flag of truce
may float over the land; that men and
nations may live in peace and harmony,
united with the world, united with each
other.
		AIMEE C. SCHILLER.


SOUTH AFRICAN SITUATION.
		(Concluded.)
	The president has been married twice.
His first wife only lived a short time.
Several years after he married a niece of his
first wife, by whom he has had sixteen chil-
dren, seven are still living.
	Allen Sangru in the Ainslee says:
	If Paul Kruger died today the Boer nation
would pass into history tomorrow; no man nor
combination of men could replace him. He alone
welds together the chain of humanity that is strug-
gling for liberty in South Africa. It is as though one
mighty individual were fighting the British Em-
pire. He is Atlas, supporting the world. He has
no counterpart on earth Enemies may ridicule his
religion, slur his principles and accuse him of hy-
procrisy, but he stands a figure as adamantine as
it is animated which no one believes will ever be
cast down. He is a Sphinx surcharged with wis- 
dom and energy to whom 40,600 Burghers look up
as their savior.
	Twenty-seven years ago Cecil John
Rhodes, then a tall, thin lad, was advised
by his physician to go to South Africa if he
wished to live more than three years. He
and his brother sailed and reached Natal
while the diamond mines of Kimberly were
in full blast. Cecil remained there for
several years and finally went back to Ox-
ford to complete his education. Returning
to South Africa with the Rothschild money
he began to be a factor in politics, mining
and government and in 1875 he was in the
zenith of his glory. He was many times a
millionaire, the head of one of the greatest
enterprises, director of the affairs of the
dominion that occupies one tenth of a conti-
nent, almost the sole owner of Rhodesia.
His power was nearly absolute over a ter-
ritory that extended from the Cape of Good
Hope into Central Africa, then eastward to
within a few miles of Indian Ocean. But
with all this wealth, all this power, Cecil J.
was not satisfied, he looked at the map of


[Column 1] 
Africa and saw the Transvaal and Orange
Free State flag occupying the position he
had marked for the British emblem. In
order that he might strike at the head he
determined t[-] commence operation by first
attacking and exterminating the Transvaal
as the fall of that would carry with it the
Orange Free State. This was the plot [-]f
the Jameson raid formed, but the dream
so near realization one dav was dissolved
the next, and he was obliged to assign the
premiership of Cape Colony. The failure of
this raid was especially galling to Rhodes,
as it was the first time his great political
schemes had failed. He then planned upon
a commercial death by opening Rhodesia
for settlement. Several thousand persons
were lured from their happy homes, but
only remained about a year, and then were
glad to go back to the Transvaal and Oom
Paul. In the last ten or twelve years the
Transvaal country has proved to be of such
enormous value that it has attracted and
will continue to attract investors from all
parts of the world. The gold products
alone yield over one hundred and twenty-
five million dollars a year, more than a
third of the world’s production. Coal in
good quantities has been found, but the
process of development is so slow that al-
most all the coal comes from Wales. Lately
American coal has secured a firm foothold.
Everything in the eatable line is grown in
the Transvaal except sugar and coffee.
They have vast timber lands, but almost all
timber used in the mining district is trans-
ported from Puget Sound, the native timber
being unsuited for the underground sup-
ports.
	Thus it is easy to see the reason the
British want this country. The yield is so
enormous and the Transvaal being an
inland state it promises a feeding ground for
those states between it and the sea. Every
ton of freight that enters the Transvaal
from the sea, i[-] subject to a high custom
duty. Freight shipped from Europe is taxed
by the steamship line, the Cape Colony R.
R., the Orange Free State tax it before
allowing it to pass through the territory
and then the Transvaal custom duties.
	Mr. Kruger says all the blame of this
war is on Rhodes, with Miller and Cham-
berlain as assistants, and he says they will
not be content until the Brirish flag floats
over the whole of Africa. All the land
that England has in South Africa she has
taken at the muzzles of repeating rifles and
machine guns. This seems to be the civil-
ized method of extending the bounds of the
empire they talk about so much. Mr.
Rhodes wants all of the country south of
the Zambizi river united, and must have
possession of the Transvaal and Orange
Free State before he can be president of the
United States of South Africa. The Old
Man says we will fight until not one Boer
remains to defend our country. The Boers
are born sharpshooters and from infancy
are taught to put a bullet in a buzzard’s
skull at one hundred yards away, so that
the Boer army is filled with lads from 17
to 21.
	It is said that if the worst came the Boers
have sufficient food stuff stored away in the
Z outpanberg mountains to last 18 months.
	Mr. Kruger says, “We are a pecular
people and if God wills that we lose our
independence, then it is better we should
all pass away. A Boer would brood over
his thoughts, the women and children
would hate the conqueror, and when there

[Column 2]
is so much bitterness there would be no
happiness. 	It would be better to die, then
each one could say 'I have fought the good
fight, I have finished my course, I have
kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up
for me a crown of righteousness.' " 
	LUELLA M. RHODES.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells:
	DEAR FRIEND:- Since returning home
from my very delightful trip, among my
papers I found the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
you gave me, and thinking of you was re-
minded of my promise to write to you.
	We had a very delightful trip from start
to finish, and would have been delighted,
if the limitation of our travels had permitted,
to have remained a week longer in the
beautiful and impressive Salt Lake City, a
city which is a marvel to me in many ways.
Its rise and rapid growth from a barren and
an alkali plain; its broad beautiful streets,
bordered with immense trees of luxurious
foliage, and the beautiful Temple and
stately buildings, also commercial buildings
and fine houses; those beautiful mountains
with their different soft pinky shades, en-
shrouded in the hazy atmosphere, is ever a
delight which I never would tire of looking
upon. The greatest marvel is the Mormon
Church, which I in my ignorance had sup-
posed was almost a relic of the past, to find
such large audiences and following, and the
greatest mystery of all to me is the belief.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	We spent three weeks in Spokane, a city
among the pines and mountains, and found
many things to interest us in its natural
beauty of surroundings and industrial and
commercial activities. From there we
stopped off a day at Butte, and met a friend
who was living there, who made our stay
very pleasant, taking us all about the tree-
less and verdureless city and the wonderful
mining town. The sulphur from the
smelters has destroyed every green tree,
shrub and grass, leaving the city destitute
and naked, as it were, only bare walls of
stone and brush, the multi-millionaire’s
homes have the same naked appearance,
save on Clark Street was a small, weak, wild
cucumber vine, scarcely three feet in height.
	We rode up and up on the mountains,
viewing the mines in various places on the
rounds and also the city and country at 
large, sneezing and wheezing from the sul-
phur fumes. It was novel and interesting.
The ores the earth contains and the man-
made machinery invented to abstract them
from their hiding places.
	We resumed our journey through the
mountainous and picturesque Montana, and
made imaginary pictures of what that
country, so prolific in gold, copper and
other minerals, would be in one hundred
years from now, as its agricultural and
mineral resources become more fully de-
veloped.
	Well, the wonders of the Yellowstone
Park were finally reached, and wonderful
beyond description were the boiling, bub-
bling, spouting springs, the colors and
activity are indeed wonderful and so many
scattered along, sometimes clustered many
together, others solitary in different places.
Throughout the Park the various
mountain, river, lake and canyon scenery is
ever changing and beautiful.
	I will not attempt a description, for you

[Column 2]
may have seen it. We spent sixty days
very pleasantly there, then on to Fargo,
Dakota, where we stopped one week with
strangers. Then to Brainard, Minn., where
we stopped a week with a sister-in-law,
then to Clearwater, Minn., visited a cousin.
Next stop at Minneapolis and St. Paul,
where we visited all places of interest and
arrived in Chicago, September 14, 11:30 p.
m., more impressed than ever that there is
not a yard of this earth but what is beautiful
and wonderful beyond description. I see
beauty everywhere, in the sunshine, in the
shadows, in man, in woman. Where can
you look and not feast your eyes on beauty.
	We had a glorious trip and no occurrence
to mar our pleasure. For that reason we
hold to the truth that all is good, God made
everything that was made and called it
good, therefore we call everything good;
consequently good is coming our way all
the time.
	Should you see Judge and Mrs. Kinney
please give them my best regards, also
accept the same.
				Yours truly,
					J. H. ALLEN.


LETTER FROM BROOKLYN.
Dear Sister:
	A few months ago you wrote a letter to
President Garrett, of the Brooklyn Confer-
ence, in reference to the new branch of the
Relief Society just organized. I ask your
pardon for not acknowledging the same,
	The society was organized May 12. In
July the president of the society was forced
to resign, owing to her leaving Brooklyn.
The society was reorganized and at present
we are in good and regular standing, having
a roll call of fifteen members.
	We meet twice a month; one meeting is
devoted to business, taking in new members
and devising plans for the good of
the society; the other meeting is de-
voted to testimonies, readings and anything
that will help the spiritual growth of the
society. We feel we have a great work to
do here in Brooklyn to help forward the
cause of truth and to be an example to the
world of what our Elders teach, and our
worthy president, Miss Agnes Rose Lane, is
anxious for any suggestions or methods we
may not have that will help us in our work.
	We have given an entertainment which
proved very successful, both as a social and
financial affair, enabling us to raise the
means to help those requiring assistance;
several are in need of relief. I am sure you
will be pleased to hear from us and we ask
an interest in your prayers that we may be
in love and unity with each other, serving
our Master as opportunities are given us.
	Hoping to hear from you at an early date,
and with God bless you in your noble work,
I am your sister in the Gospel,
		BELLE SHAFFER,
			Secretary Brooklyn R. S.


MADAME JULES SIMON, the widow of
the noted French statesman died on Sep-
tember 21. Mme. Simon was one of the
first International Congress of Women’s
Work in Paris, the first body of women to
meet under the auspices of a national
government. At the second congress held
in Paris, in June of this year, Mme. Simon
was elected an honorary vice-president. A
memento of commemorative appreciation of
the services of her illustrious husband.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WAYSIDE WELL.
He stopped at the wayside well,
	Where the water was cool and deep;
There were feathery ferns ’twixt the mossy stones.
	And gray was the old well-sweep.

He left his carriage alone,
	Nor could coachman nor footman tell
Why the master stopped in the dusty road
	To drink at the wayside well.

He swayed with his ungloved hands
	The well-sweep, creaking and slow,
While from seam and scar in the bucket’s side,
	The water plashed back below.

He lifted it to the curb,
	And bent to the bucket’s brim
No furrows of time or care had marked
	The face that looked back at him.

He saw but a farmer’s boy,
	As he stooped o’er the brim to drink, 
And ruddy and tanned was the laughing face
	That met him over the brink.

The eyes were sunny and clear,
	And the brow undimmed by care,
While from under the rim of the old straw hat
	Strayed curls of chestnut hair.

He turned away with a sigh;
	Nor could footman or coachman tell
Why the master stopped in his ride that day
	To drink at the wayside well
						WALTER LEARNED.


[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)
	In my eighteenth year I again took sick.
I lost the use of my right hand, and that
was a great trial to me, not to be able to
use my hand, for with that I had earned
much. I then tried braiding straw, but
my hand continued getting weaker, and at
last I could do nothing The doctor came
and examined it and said it was my spine
that was affected and that I would have to
go to the hospital at once. I thought I
could never stand to go there, as I had
never been from home one night in my life,
but now to leave my home and friends, it
seemed as if it were more than I could
bear. Our presiding Elder advised me to
go. It was a Saturday when I went. It
was about ten miles from home. Mother
and the folks said that I could go an out
patient, that of course would allow me to
live at home, but go to the doctor for treat-
ment. When I arrived there the doctor
said he would have to examine my back,
so he drew his thumb down my back so
hard that I shall never forget it. He said
that I would have to come an in patient.
That meant that I should stay in the hos-
pital for treatment all the time. I cried
and said that I would rather go home and
die than to stay there, but mother told me
that if I would stay there I might get the
use of my hand. That was a great trial to
me. I was taken up to the fourth story
and was shown into what is called a two-
bedded ward. I walked in and there found
a strange woman occupying the one, I was
to occupy the other. Everything was as
clean and neat as it could be.
	My supper was some milk porridge, but
my appetite had not come. Then came
the nurse with some medicine and some
opium to put me to sleep; but it did not put
me to sleep that night.
	It was springtime and everything was
beautiful outside, the shade trees and the
gravel walks, but there was no pleasure
for me, for I was a stranger to everybody.
I went to a large window and dropped a
towel out so that I could go out for it. I
went, glad to get out of my prison, to the
place where I had dropped it. It happened

[Column 2]
to drop by the matron’s window. I did not
know, neither did I care, but when I
started up stairs a lady met me. She
looked very angry and said, “What have
you been down for? Do you not know
the rules?” She then asked my name and
told me to go back and read the rules, that
they were in my room, and said, “Do not
let me see you down again until after ten.”
	I did not say anything, for I did not
know what to say; and as for the rules,
I never did read them.
	At eleven o’clock the bell rang for church
but I said to the sick woman in the same
room that I would not go to their church.
She said I must, but I still insisted that I
would not go. I was then told that I would
have to take the blame. I wanted to get
out and did not care for the blame that
would be given me.
	After the service the minister was shown
in by the nurse. He looked at my name
on the card at the head of the bed, and said
in a stern voice, “Sarah Barnes, I did not
see you at church today.”
	He then wanted to know my reason, and
I told him it was just because I did not
want to go. I was asked whether I had
read those rules, or if I could not read?
But I informed them that I could, but did
not care to read their rules. The minister
wanted to know if I did not believe in re-
ligion, but I declined to tell him at that
time, I had never seen him before. He
left me then. He was a very pleasant ap-
pearing man and gentlemanly in his man-
ner. His hair was very white and he
seemed very nice.
	When he left the room the nurse asked
me why I objected to go to church? “For,”
said she, “you must go as long as you stay
here.”
	But I told her I would not, for the
church I believed in taught me better. I
was then asked what that church was, and I
told her that it was the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. She said she
was very sorry for me, for she said they
were a very wicked people; their leader
was a false prophet.
	From that time I began to tell about the
Gospel. I had some books with me and I
told them to read them. It was soon
known all through the building that I was
a Mormon. Some came in the room to see
me, to see what I looked like. Some said
they were afraid to pass the room, but I
told them there was no danger, and some
said that I ought not to be allowed to be in
the hospital. I tried to show them that it
was the true Gospel that was spoken of in
the Bible, that should be restored in the last
days by an angel who was to fly through
the midst of heaven, having the everlasting
Gospel to preach to those who dwelt upon
the earth. There were none there who had
ever heard an Elder preach, and they knew
nothing of it but from rumors.
	Well, Wednesday came, the day for all to
go to church again; but again I was absent.
At the close of their service the minister
again come to me and spoke of my being
absent, and asked what church I belonged
to, was it the Methodist, Calvinist or
Presbyterian, or what was it?
	“I do hope,” said he, “that you do not
belong to that deluded sect called Mormons,
led by that imposter, Joe Smith.”
	I quickly said, “I do belong to that very
church that you speak of.”
	He felt sorry that so young a girl as I
should be led into such a delusion.

[Column 3]
“I came into the church of my own ac-
cord,” I said, “after being fully convinced
that it was true.” This ended our talk for
that day.
	I had let some of the patients take the
books that I had with me to read, and many
of the patients began to listen to me in
telling about the Gospel. But Sunday
came again and this time when the minister
came in he had with him all my books and
told me that it was not allowed for me to
do as I had done, and that if they wanted to
hear from me they would have to come into
my room but that I might have the privi-
lege of talking to them if they wanted to
come into my room and listen. He then
began to ask questions about our religion,
which I answered very readily. He said
he understood that we had a new Bible, but
I told him that was not true. After an
hour’s conversation he left.
	On his next visit, the Wednesday follow-
ing, I was very low. I had been taken
very sick and they had put me in a warm
bath and it came near ending my life. I
fainted before I had been in there two
minutes, and they took me out and rolled
me up in a blanket and carried me to my
room and laid me on the bed, they thought
I was dead. Several of the inmates gathered
around me and felt my pulse, but no signs
of life could they find. I could hear every-
thing that they said and feel every touch,
but I could not move nor breathe. The
next thing I heard was that I must be
moved to the dead house. What a feeling!
How I prayed to the Lord to give me
strength to make some sign. At that
moment a young woman by the name of
Mary Harris suggested that they try putting
a looking glass to my lips and press it hard,
and that if there were any life it would be
shown by the breath on the glass. This
was tried and to the astonishment of them
they found the sign. The word “dead-
house” struck terror to me. In a short
time I could open my eyes, but I found that
I was very helpless, for I had not strength
to speak.
	When the minister came in the next
Sunday he seemed troubled when he saw
me so weak. I told him that I would be
better when he came next time. As he left
the room he called the nurse out and told
her that if there was anything that I wanted
to let him know what it was and he would
see that it was made right. He said that
my life was too precious to be neglected.
She came in and told me, but I said that
there was nothing I needed.
	Before he came again I had been almost
used up. My back was cupped; that is,
they had laid me on my face and cut twelve
gashes on each side of my backbone, and
then rubbed me with something that sali-
vated the whole of my back. The marks
still are there and will be as long as I live.
	He, the minister came and seemed to feel
so very sorry for me in my suffering, and
would spend considerable time with me and
ask if there was anything that I could fancy.
	The next week Lady Jane Pym drove up
to the hospital and inquired for me and
offered any assistance that I needed in the
way of comforts. The matron showed me
all the respect that it was possible for her to.
She would come in and sit and talk with me.
		(To be continued.)


If you would have, your songs endure,
build on the human heart.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCT. 15, & SEP. 1, 1900


[Column 1]
A HOPEFUL OUTLOOK.
	It is rather a hopeful outlook for the
future that men of exceptional ability have
been appointed by the President of the
United States to represent this country in
the International Court of Arbitration.
The Hague agreement stipulated that each
of the signatory powers were to appoint
men of recognized standing on great
national questions, to arbitrate differences
between interested governments that were
at variance.
	Very much has been said and written in
regard to the Hague Conference being a
failure, but the leaven generated there will
work its way among all civilized people,
and the little seed sown, though it may
have been small, will certainly become a
strong and powerful tree, under whose
wide-spread branches generations yet un-
born may sit at ease and rejoice that war
and all its attendant evils and terrible con-
sequences are known no more.
	The sentiment in favor of peace created
through the agitation of the meetings held
simultaneously, just previous to the sitting
of the Hague Conference, will never die
out while women mourn their dead slain in
battle, since that gathering of the repre-
sentatives of sixteen nations. Sixteen
powers signed the Articles of the Conven-
tion. The Pope sent a letter assuring the
assembly of his cooperation, and stating
that he had at times previous performed
the functions of an arbitrator, and promised
to continue his efforts in the advancement
of civilization; and we know the highest
civilization makes for peace.
	The fact of an International Court of
Arbitration on neutral ground once fully
established will have its influence upon
national differences, and create a feeling of
greater permanency in securing justice to
all concerned in the causes to be adjusted.
Notwithstanding it may take a long time
to bring about the much desired results,
yet we should not lose heart in pursuing
the work that is sure to triumph ultimately.
	Though men may agree that it is all in
vain, because wars have been waged since,
(and it is the way of the world) yet, never-
theless, we know ignorance is hard to
overcome, and it is the few who are sueing
for peace against the many whose methods
are crude, and whom it is difficult to con-
vince that there is a, better way to settle

[Column 2]
even national disputes, than to array armed
forces against each other.
	Not only does the furtherance of the
measures to establish this International
Court of Arbitration look hopeful, but the
theories and philanthropic sentiments of
women now being developed along practical
lines that will tend to helpfulness in ways
heretofore directed wholly along charitable
lines; instead investing money in enter-
prises that will supply work for those
needing help and actually encouraging
habits of industry in those more or less
dependent, who through force of circum-
stances are not in a position to create work
that is remunerative. When women’s
clubs and societies can launch ou tand do
such things as are now proposed in some
of the large cities of the East, young men
will not enlist in the army so frequently for
the sake of a living, and brought up in the
country air and taught healthfulness and
familiarity with nature, will give new life
and increased vitality to the boys and girls
who have the material benefit of such
training.
	One lady in dealing with this subject says
charity deals with symptoms, philanthropy
with the disease; but she went on to tell
the need of law which is a vital truth, for
when any effort is made the workers are con-
fronted by the law, city, state or national,
and the question goes back to the honesty,
fearlessness and disinterestedness of the
law makers and law enforcers. All giving
of material aid should be with a view, if
possible, to make the recipient self-helpful.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The sisters of the General Board and
other sisters have been busy of late visiting
conferences. President M. Isabella Horne
and Sister Harriet Ellis attended the Utah
Stake Relief Society; President Jane S.
Richards attended Morgan Stake; Sisters
Elizabeth J. Stevenson and L. L. Greene
Richards, Emery Stake; President Susan
Grant and Sister Mary E. Irvine, Uintah
Stake.
	Miss Susan B Anthony is reported to be
slowly but surely recovering from the col-
lapse which prostrated her early in Septem-
ber last. She is now able to ride or walk
out a little every day. Women everywhere
will rejoice that she has been spared to
direct and advise those who love her so in-
tensely and who look up to her for wisdom
to guide the women’s movement for higher
advancement.
	The women of the L. D. S. Church every
where will, we are sure, be delighted to
know that they are to have a Woman’s
Temple or building in the not far distant
future. The presidency of the Church
have very generously given a very valuable
piece of land on the block east of the mag-
nificent Temple in this city, facing west at
the south corner of Temple avenue. The
structure when completed will, the sisters
may rest assured, be a handsome and com-
modious edifice.
	The women of Utah are honored in the
appointment of Mrs. Emma J. McVicker
for Superintendent of Public Instruction to
fill the unexpired term left vacant by the
demise of Dr. John R. Park. Mrs. Mc-
Vicker is an honor to the women of the
State, thoroughly qualified for the position,
<a>nd an all around woman of affairs. She has

[Column 2]
the hearty congratulations of the EXPONEN[-]
and a sincere wish from the editor for th[-]
future success of her educational ideals fo[-]
the State of Utah.
	The Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women Will be held at
Minneapolis, Minnesota, on November 13,
14, and 15, 1900. By invitation of the
Women’s Council of Minneapolis the pub-
lic meetings will be held in the First
Unitarian Church at 8th and Mary Streets.
Other meetings in church parlors or in
Hotel Headquarters, as usual. The
National organizations will be represented by
the president or proxy and one delegate or
alternate. Patrons and members of com-
mittees are entitled to be present and par-
ticipate in proceedings.
	The At Home given by Mrs. F. S., Mrs.
F. Dewey and Mrs. Joseph T. Richards at
the Richards residence on A. Street,
Saturday afternoon, October 20, was a bril-
liant affair. Three hundred guests were
invited and a large number attended during
the hours from 2 to 6 o’clock. The dec-
orations were on a very magnificent scale,
the front parlor in green and white chrysan-
themums, with vines and ferns, and very
artistic, the rear parlor in red and the dining
room in yellow and white. The ladies of
the house were assisted in receiving by Mrs.
J. T. Houx, of San Francisco, Mrs. C. S.
Varian, Mrs. A. G. Ewing, Mrs. Ed. Ferry
Mrs. Flank Jennings and Mrs. W. W.
Riter. The ladies who assisted in serving
refreshments were Mrs. Fred W. Scarff,
Misses Mary Young, Edyth Ellerbeck and
Ida Noble. The gowns of the young ladies
corresponded with the colors used in dec-
orating the dining hall.
	The General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints convened
October 5, 6, and 7, in the Tabernacle in Salt
Lake City, and was opened by President
Lorenzo Snow, who delivered an eloquent
and inspiritional sermon, touching upon
many important matters of historical inter-
est and also such as relate to the present day
and the lives of the Latter-day Saints. His
remarks concerning the building up of
Jackson County were in line with the spirit
of the times and his words altogether were
pregnant with significance of the work of
the Lord in the “last days,” or the fulness
of times, and of the position he occupies as
the head of the Church. President Snow,
although in his 87th year, speaks as forcibly
as ever and can be heard distinctly in that
large building. The President is a very
remarkable man and a grand representative
of his Puritan ancestry.
	The Utah State Fair, held at the Expo-
sition building and grounds, in this city,
was opened October 2, 1900, by Secretary
James A. Hammond, in the absence of the
Governor with an immense audience. The
Fair lasted through the week and was
thronged most of the time. The weather
for one or two days was rather unfavorable,
yet the showing of attendance was good.
The cattle, horses and poultry surpassed
other years, and the mineral exhibits were
fine, and also in some other departments
the excellence of workmanship and of
articles excelled previous exhibits; but in
art, education and textile industries the
exhibit was not what it should have been
to show the material progress that has been
made in these special lines. No pains was
spared, however, on the part of the presi


[Column 1]
dent, Bishop J. R. Winder, and the Board
of Directors, to urge the people to bring
forward exhibits, and the able and efficient
secretary, S. W. Sears, worked during the
year with an indomitable will and persever-
ance to make the State Fair an unparalleled
success for Utah.
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Aseembly Hall, in
this city, Thursday, October 4, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., president Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Meeting opened by
singing “Now let us rejoice,” etc., led by
Prof. C. J. Thomas, Mrs. Ida Daynes
Cannon accompaniest. Prayer by President
M. Isabella Horne. Singing, “Let us pray
gladly pray,” etc. Roll called, responses
from seventeen presidents, eleven counselors
and seven by other representatives.
Minutes of the April conference read and
approved.
	Miss Lutie Grant sang a solo very sweet-
ly, title, “One Sweetly Solemn Thought.”
	President Young made an address of wel-
come and of greeting to the sisters in her
usual motherly way. She rejoiced to see
their faces and appreciated their presence.
Spoke upon the sacrament and urged those
present not to neglect the privilege of par-
taking of the sacrament, and to put aside
all unkindness and they would receive the
blessing promised. Sister Zina spoke
beautifully upon humility and faith and
reverence for those who bore the holy
priesthood. She remarked that we none of
us know what the Lord has in store for us,
therefore we should be united and humble,
that we may be prepared for all the events
of Providence, for we must be tried in all
things.
	President Mary L. Woolf, Alberta Stake,
Canada, was glad to see the faces of the
aged sisters, those whom she had known
and had heard of all her life. She realized
they were growing old and feeble and
needed the support and help of younger
women. Sister Woolf felt we as sisters en-
joyed the greatest blessings of any women
on the earth, in connection with Mother
Eve, in bearing the souls of men, though
we feel very weak sometimes. Spoke of
her twelve children and thought tho’ we
might have trials and afflictions, we should
bear them heroically and ask for strength to
overcome. Referred to herself and counsel-
ors visiting the Stake, accompanied by
Sister Card, who was now an Aid in the
society. They felt very happy in visiting
from place to place, and encouraging and
stimulating the sisters to good works and
renewed efforts in the path of duty.
Thought we should teach our children the
benefit of prayer and the use of the conse-
crated oil in administering to the sick; re-
lated some instances concerning this in her
own family. When the Savior was on the
earth He said to Peter “Knowest thou me ?”
And when Peter replied, Jesus said to him,
“Then feed my sheep.” The speaker felt
we should strive to carry out this saying of
the Savior by giving spiritual food to the
people and to the children.
	Counselor Sarah Jane Hostetter, of San
Luis Stake, Colorado, said their Stake was
more prosperous than it had ever been
heretofore. The sisters were erecting two
new buildings. In their Stake Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp had been teaching obstetrics and
nursing in Sanford, and she had done a
good work there. They enjoyed the

[Column 2]
EXPONENT and read from it in their meet-
ings. She felt they were improving. She
rejoiced to be in Utah and in visiting this
city, it was her first visit here. She had
only been twelve years in the Church, and
she wanted to learn concerning the work
and to retain all she could.
	Mary N. James, the representative from
San Juan Stake, said the sisters in Bluff
were going to build in the spring. They
had a good share of material on hand, were
going to build of stone, they appreciated the
EXPONENT, used it in their meetings. She
referred to the Navajo blanket she had
brought with her to send by Sister Emily
S. Richards to the National Suffrage Baazar
in New York City. It was a very elegant
one made entirely by a Navajo woman in
their settlement.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St George
Stake, Utah, said she had visited all the
branches in the Stake except the White
River settlement, “which we intend visiting
as soon as I return home. We have some
wheat on hand and are helping in many
directions to build up the country. We
have been very successful this year in the
silk industry and we know that the words
of President Young are true in regard to
sericulture. It is an employment for our
children as well as the older people, and we
must teach habits of industry and economy
if we expect to be prospered in our efforts.”
	Sister Zina spoke a few words upon the
silk industry, urging the sisters to carry out
the counsel that had been given by Presi-
dent Brigham Young, and the Lord would
add His blessing to their efforts.
	Sister Caroline Stringam represented
Uintah Stake. In her remarks she referred
to a revelation of Joseph Smith, the prophet,
in the Doctrine and Covenants in regard to
those who have talents and hide them, and
realized that the Lord would call us to ac-
count for not making use of our opportunities
to do good. She spoke earnestly to the
young mothers upon the training of children
and gave some instances of how her own
methods had succeeded with young boys in
her own neighborhood. Felt that the souls
of these young men were precious in the
sight of the Lord. There were really no
poor to be cared for in that locality, but the
sick were properly attended to by the Relief
Society sisters.
	Congregation sang Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Professor C. J. Thomas.
	Afternoon session. Singing by the
Twentieth Ward Y. L. M. I. A. choir led,
by Mrs. Mary F. Kelly, Mrs. Ida Daynes
Cannon, accompaniest, “There Shall be
Showers of Blessings.” Prayer by Presi-
dent Thomas Ricks. Singing, “Some One
Will Meet at the Pearly Gates, Shall You ?
Shall I?”
	President M. I. Horne was the first
speaker. Her remarks were upon union
and faithfulness, the strict observing of the
Sabbath day, the partaking of the sacrament
in the right spirit, with clean hands and a
pure heart; and “we are laying the found-
ation for a great future hereafter. We
must pursue a course that will elevate
humanity. While we are doing this chari-
table work we must seek to benefit all that
are in need, but be wise and careful in our
judgment of all matters.”
	Sister Horne then explained about the
class in nursing, referred to what had been
done in the past by Dr. Roberts and the
good work she had accomplished. Prayed
the Lord to bless the sisters in their labors
and said many other good things.

[Column 3]
	President Sarah J. Cannon was delighted
to see so many of the Mothers in Israel.
Felt we had a great deal to do and we needed
wisdom and the Spirit of the Lord to aid us
at all times. She had felt very much blest in
her labors in the Relief Society. She had
been much interested in the minutes of our
last conference that were read in the morn-
ing session. We must teach our children
the Gospel, know where they are, do this
duty and not leave the others undone. Let us
do all our duties, pay our tithing and be
charitable. Sister Cannon remarked that
she had been acquainted with all the
prophets since the days of Joseph Smith and
knew of their divine mission and teachings.
	President B. W. Smith felt happy in
meeting with so many of our good sisters
and hoped the time would come when we
would have more, realized we were on the
increase. “We want the young women
and young girls. I was young myself, not
twenty, when I joined the Relief Society at
the first organization. We want to teach
our children to be honest, truthful and in-
dustrious, pay our tithing, keep the Sab-
bath day holy and have our children attend
meetings and partake of the sacrament.
And, sisters, let us keep out of debt, not be
using other people’s means. We want to
build a house for the Relief Society in this
city, bring our mites together and see what
we can do towards it. The Lord will bless
us in our undertakings if we perform every
duty.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff reported
the Granite Stake. They had fourteen or
fifteen branches, one new branch recently
organized. They had visited all around.
She was glad to have the opportunity to
testify to the work in which we are engaged.
“Let us be consistent Latter-day Saints,
keep the word of wisdom and do our Tem-
ple work. Liked to see the Temple full doing
the work for those behind the veil. Hoped
to be faithful and true in all things.
	Counselor Mary Bagley, Bear Lake Stake:
“As Sister Lindsay, our president, was not
well enough to attend this conference she
wished me to represent the Stake. Al-
though our president is seventy-seven years
old she made the trip around the county
this summer. The Lord has blest her in
many ways. She has presided now twenty-
one years and I feel blest that I am able to
travel around with her. There is no
greater blessing than to be Mothers in
Israel in the Relief Society.”
	Sister Lindsay knew Joseph Smith and
frequently bore testimony to his divine mis-
sion. “I pray the Lord to bless these aged
sisters who have been so valiant for the
truth.”
	Sister Emily S. Richards showed the
ladies the Navajo blanket which had been
sent from San Juan County, to be on ex-
hibition at the Woman Suffrage Bazaar in
New York City in December. She invited
the sisters to assist in the effort being made
by the Utah Woman’s Council, by giving
five cent donations, which would be grate-
fully received or any article suitable for
such a purpose that might be on sale in the
Bazaar to increase the fund. Also spoke of
the circular letter published in the Deseret
News October 3, and thought the young
ladies should encourage this undertaking.
	Sister Julina L. Smith spoke of our chil-
dren and their home training and habits.
Felt it important they should go to Sunday
School and attend meetings. Educate our
boys for missionaries and our girls to make
good wives and mothers. She had recently


[Column 1]
returned from a visit to Canada, and had
met there an English Lord and his wife
and party. Told us how punctual they
were in keeping an appointment they had
made with our people to meet some of our
folks and dine with them, even though they
had to ride and drive through a heavy rain
storm, both going and returning. His
Excellency remarked, “We made an ap-
pointment and we would not break it.”
Sister Smith felt the people were prospering
there and were serving the Lord. The
Relief Society, the Y. L. M. I. A. and the
Sunday School were all visited, and were
doing a good work. The vegetables raised
up there were very large and excellent, it
was easy to raise them. The people had
also started fruit trees. The Saints were
enjoying their religion and trying to make
an honest living; and meantime they are
making themselves comfortable homes as
circumstances will permit. They are not
without recreation, such as dancing parties
and simple amusements.
	President Mary A. Call, of Bannock
Stake, stated that the Stake had only been
organized a little over two years, and they
felt the need of the visiting sisters to give
counsel and encouragement. They had
saved some grain and had some granaries.
They had found it a good plan to line the
granaries with tin. Dr Ellis R. Shipp had
been there and taught a class in obstetrics and
nursing. She felt these classes were needed
in Zion. Spoke encouragingly upon the
progress women were making everwhere.
	President Louisa B. Benson, Oneida
Stake, said they had been called upon to
donate a hundred dollars towards fixing up
the Academy and they had complied. She
was sure they would do their share in any
undertaking to benefit the society. Spoke
very kindly of the retiring president, and
said that they valued her services and would
like to have the benefit of her counsel and
experience.
	Star Valley Stake was represented by
Annie K. Kennington, who said: “We have
a new president, Sister Alice J. Call, our
former president having moved away. We
have not a large Stake, we visit every six
months. We can’t boast much of our
grain, ours is a stock raising country. We
have one house of our own belonging to the
Relief Society. We have never yet had a
visit from the leading sisters, but anticipate
one sometime, we shall be very glad to
have them come to see us.”
	Pocatello: President Eliza M. Oram said:
“During the two years I have presided we
have visited the Stake throughout three
times. We have ten wards and three hun-
dred members. We are in a scattered con-
dition, though we travel by team and we
are united in the work. We had a visit
from Sister Grant and Sister Stevenson and
we enjoyed their visit very much, they have
the spirit of progress. We feel there are
not enough young women who appreciate
the work of this society. Brother Nuttall
came and went through the Stake with us.
Our sisters are not rich and money is scarce
with us, our sisters cannot give as those
who are working for a salary. I feel to
bless the sisters of the General Board. Sis-
ter Grant prophesied to us when she was
there and her words came to pass in less
than a month.”
	Bingham Stake, President Emma J. Ben-
nett: “We have visited all the places this
last spring except one. We have to travel
over seven hundred miles and do it all by

[Column 2]
team. I believe we are converting our
brethren up there. At first they seemed
afraid and did not come into our meetings,
but now we have a great many of them who
attend. They really did not know the
benefit of the Relief Society until they had
one in their own locality. We have had
Sister Stevenson’s counsel and instruction
we have had in our visits a wonderful por-
tion of the Spirit of God in our meetings in
the various places. I am pleased that we
are to have a building of our own, every
Stake will be interested in this, we are all
working for the same cause.”
	The Young Ladies’ choir sang a very
beautiful hymn, “Labor On.”
	The secretary gave out notices of meet-
ings and explained some important matters.
	President Thomas E. Ricks, of Fremont
Stake, gave a good report of the sisters’
labors in that place. He was thankful for
the Relief Society, and that we were to
have a place to meet in suitable to our
needs. Referred to the faithful labors of
the older sisters, some of them who had
been faithful since the first days of the
Church.
	President Zina D. H. Young: “If I had
the power to bless you, my sisters, more
than you are blest, I would do so; but the
blessings of heaven are with us. I always
feel like a babe in the hands of my Father
in heaven. Sisters, never speak a word
against the authorities of this Church. May
we each of us have wisdom to impart the
true principles to our children and to our
companions, and to the world, I rejoice in
the spirit that has filled this house,
the sweet peace, the loving forbearance of
our Heavenly Father, that takes us into
sacred nearness to Him. I pray that we
may all come together again in the name of
Jesus. Amen.”
	President Jane S. Richards: “I have had
several invitations to speak today, but wished
to hear from “Sister Zina” and others. I
never get tired in a Relief Society meeting.
We have had a glorious time today in this
conference, and I wished to wait until every
one else had spoken. I have enjoyed the
meeting very much, and have felt happy
and had enjoyment in hearing the reports
and in listening to the mothers, and
especially to Sister Zina. It is a great call-
ing to be a mother, and to train our children
whether we are mothers or grandmothers.
I feel as some of the sisters do who have
spoken about partaking of the sacrament.
Sister Horne spoke of this. I think we can
all improve in this matter. When we think
of the love of our Father while we are par-
taking, and we want our children with us.
I have admired very much all who have re-
ported, especially the one who spoke of the
rough boys. I must tell a little story: One
day there were four little boys quarreling,
calling each other bad names as I was going
along the street. I stopped a minute and
talked to them. I told them I was sorry to
hear such language and tried to persuade
them to make up, ‘but,’ I said, ‘I am going
on now and I’ll be back in ten minutes.
You little boys partake of the sacrament. I
shall be obliged to report you to the Sunday
School unless you make up before I come
back. When I returned they had made it
all up. We ought to teach all these little
things. What a favor and privilege it is to
live when Temples are built and the Lord
will accept of them and we have the oppor-
tunity of doing a work for our dead friends.
Sister Smith said she liked to see us in the

[Column 3]
Temple, she has the spirit of it. When I
went for my grandmother I left her name.
Brother Edlefson said, ‘No, do for her
yourself,’ I was gratified to have the feel-
ing that my grandmother was by me and
followed me. We have everything to en-
courage us. When Jesus was upon the
earth He worked among the poor, just as
we do when we are trying to do the work
He did. Weakly people, when they go to a
good meeting, come home feeling well and
lifted up in their hearts to go on in doing
good. May the Lord bless us and keep us
safe, is my prayer.
	Conference adjourned until April. 1901.
Singing, “God be with you till we meet
again.” Benediction by Sister Elizabeth J.
Stevenson.
		E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REAPERS’ CLUB.
	The Reapers’ Club have been for some
time studying American history and our
members have given interesting papers on
the subject, commencing with an account of
the very early times as recorded in the
Book of Mormon and containing the history
of our land up to the landing of the Pil-
grims and early settlement of Massachusetts.
	We have had one paper and talks on the
American Mound Builders and others on
noted American poets, writers, etc. Some
account has also been given of our eminent
women, among them being Martha
Washington, wife of the first president of
the United States; Eliza R. Snow, the gifted
poetess, author of the inspirational hymn,
“O my Father,” and Miss Clara Barton, the
noted philanthropist, with a description of
the Red Cross work.
	We have listened to some papers and
lectures on the lives and educational methods
of Pestalozzi and Froebel in regard to
Kindergarten work, etc., and talks by our
own club members. A few scientific sub-
jects have been briefly dwelt upon, namely,
electricity, and a sketch of T. A. Edison,
the inventor. One of our charter members,
Dr. R. B. Pratt, gave a very instructive
lecture on the construction of the eye.
			J. A. DRUCE, Cor. Sec.


BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.
	Mary D. Israelsen was born in Kasfjor-
den, Nordland, Norway, August 9, 1836.
Her parents being poor, she early learned
to labor. She was always noted for her
obedience and industry. Her parents were
religiously inclined and were members of
the Lutheran Church. She was, therefore,
from early childhood a member of that
church.
	On October 25, 1855, she was married to
Telleo J. Israelsen, of the same place. In
1861 she embraced the Gospel, her husband
having joined the Church some time before
She was the only member of her father’s
family that ever accepted the Gospel and
joined the Church. Remarkable enough,
her husband was, also, the only member
of his father’s famiiy that has ever joined
the Church.
	In 1864, together with her husband and
children, she emigrated to Utah and settled
in Hyrum, Cache County, where she ever
afterwards resided. In the early 80’s both
her husband and oldest son were on foreign
missions at the same time. This son has
since performed another mission in his
native country, Another son just returned


from Norway in July, where he had been
laboring as a missionary.
	Her husband died December 11, 1897.
She departed this life September 2, 1900.
She was the mother of twelve children, five
sons and seven daughters. Of these three
sons and five daughters survive her. She
had thirty-eight grandchildren, twenty-
nine of whom still live. One of these is
on a foreign mission at present. She also
had one great grandchild at the time of her
death
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Our beloved sister, Mary D. Israelsen, has been
a faithful worker in the Relief Society of Hyrum
for nineteen years.
	Whereas, God, in His infinite wisdom has seen
fit to call from this sphere of action  our beloved
sister and colaborer in the Relief Society,
	Resolved, That we mourn in her death a faith-
ful worker, a wise and loving mother and a true
Latter-day Saint.
	That we esteem her exemplary life and her
faithful labors among the needy, worthy of the
emulation of every member of our society.
	That we mourn and sympathize with the chil-
dren, grandchildren, relatives and friends, and
realize that our Father doeth all things for the
best and that we must be submissive to His will.
				LUCY WILSON,
							President.
			ELIZABETH CRITCHLOW,
			FINETTE WILLIAMS,
							Counselors.
	GEORGINE RALPH, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions adopted by the officers and mem-
bers of the Emery Relief Society in honor of their
beloved sister; Beata Burton Hansen, who de-
parted this life after an illness of one month with
typhoid fever. Sister Hansen died July 26, 1900,
at her residence in Emery Co., Utah. She was
born in Helmstad, Sweden, December 14, 1838.
She embraced the Gospet of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in her native home and emigrated to 
Utah in 1863. She was married at Manti City,
Sanpete Co., in 1863, to Peter Hansen. She was
the mother of ten children, six sons and four
daughters, eight of whom survive her. They were
all present at her funeral except one son who is
filling a mission to the Northern States. She
along with her husband was called to leave their
home in Sanpete, which they did, and go and help
to build up what is known as Castle Valley, in the
year 1880. They helped to build up three settle-
ments, known as Castle Dale, Ferron and Emery.
	Sister Beata was a good, faithful sister. She
was a mother to the orphan and a friend to all
who knew her. She acted as counselor in the
Emery Relief Society for a long time and after-
wards as a teacher in the Relief Society. She
never tired in doing good. 
	Sister Hansen was conscious to the last and
called her children to her bedside and bade the
all good bye, then passed peacefully a[-]ay.
	Resolved That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our beloved sister and friend to her heavenly 
home, that we desire to emulate her noble example
and that we herewith express our heartfelt sym-
pathy for her husband, her children and grand-
children. Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on
the records of the society, a copy be sent to the
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
				ELIZA O. JORGENSEN, Pres.
				LUELLE CHRISTENSEN, Sec. 
HATRIET CAMPKIN YOUNG.
	It is with sincere regret we record the death of
one of our faithful sisters in Three Mile Creek,
Box Elder Co., who departed this life on August
30, 1900.
	Sister Harriet Campkin Young was born at
Biggleswade Bedfordshire, England, on the 23rd of
May 1852. She was the daughter of Isaac Campkin
and Martha Webb.
	In the spring of the year 1856 Brother Campkin
and family started for Zion and arrived at St.
Louis in safety. While there Brother Campkin
was taken down with typhoid fever and in a short 
time succumbed to that disease. The widowed
mother with her family of five small children con-


tinued their journey, crossing the plains with
Captain Willey’s handcart company, arriving in
Salt Lake sometime in October of the same year.
After a short stay they came to Box Elder Co.,
locating at Three Mile Creek, where they have
since resided.
	Sister Harriet accepted the principal of plural
marriage and became the wife of Thomas Young,
December 23, 1878. She was the mother of four
children, all of whom survive her. We deeply
sympathize with them in their bereavement, know-
ing they have lost a faithful wife and loving
mother.
	Sister Harriet has been identified with the Relief
Society from its organization, and has ever been
an earnest worker in the cause of truth. At the
reorganization of our society. August 15, 1891, she
was chosen a teacher, which position she held at
the time of her death. She magnified this calling
with credit to herself and honor to her sisters.
Her good counsel and instruction will long be re-
membered by them.
	Naturally of a quiet, retiring disposition, yet she
was always at her post of duty and on hand at
every call. She was a true and faithful Latter-
day Saint and as such we mourn her departure,
yet feel to acknowledge the hand of our Father,
knowing “He doeth all things well,” and we
feel to say “Sister, Rest in peace, all is well, your 
reward is sure.”
			NELLIE ROBERTS, Secretary


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
GRANITE STAKE.
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 o’clock
p. m., Counselor Mary P. Young presiding.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by
Counselor Jenson, Mill Creek Bishopric.
Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great Jeho-
vah.”
	At this meeting Sister Wheeler, president
of the Stake Primary, her counselors and
Counselor Jenson, of Mill Creek, were also
on the stand.
	Counselor Mary P. Young introduced
Sister Alma Ash as having just returned
from England and wished her to make a
few remarks.
	Sister Ash: “I have been on a visit to my
friends. I was the only one of my family
that had joined the Church. My parents
thought it a disgrace to be a Mormon.
Since then all my mother’s family have
joined this Church.” She spoke of the in-
fluence so different out in the world to that
we have at home among the Saints. She
visited the Sunday School and many of the
Saints while there. Met Sister Wood-
ruff’s daughter and son-in-law and had a
pleasant visit with them.
	President Yates, of Millard Stake said:
“The few minutes I stand before you I
want your faith and prayers, as I wish to
be guided in the right direction. I feel
very thankful that the Lord inspired the
Prophet Joseph to organize the Relief
Society.” Encouraged the young mothers
to train their children in the faith of the
Gospel, it depended on the mothers to first
begin with themselves and then with their
children. Apostle Lyman gave us a mis-
sion, for the presidents of the Relief Society
to send and get all the young women and
young mothers to become members, and
labor with the non-tithing payers and teach
the children tithing. She spoke of the care-
lessness of mothers in not trying to set a
proper example, and the great influence it
had upon their children.
	Singing by the choir conducted by Brother
Hill, “Kind words are sweet tones of the
heart.”
	Sister Armeda S. Young spoke of the
necessity of our gaining the confidence of
our children while they are young and
teaching our girls the value of virtue, and
the influence they can wield over the young

[Column 2]
men for good by persuading them to shun
all evil habits.
	Counselor Katharine H. Brockbank
wished to learn and train her heart in the
truths of the Gospel. “We miss Sister
Woodruff very much.” Spoke of her 
mother, Sister Howard, and the desire she
had to emulate her example.
	Counselor Mary P. Young said some of
the remarks of Sister Armeda Young had
brought reflections to her mind that she	
wished to mention. “We have great re-
sponsibilities as mothers. A remark of
President Brigham Young’s was brought
forcibly to my mind, ‘Mothers, if your chil-
dren go astray the Lord will hold you re-
sponsible.’ This has weighed upon my
mind for a long time. Sisters, are we
doing our duty ? Do we do the little
things? Encourage our children? Get
them ready for their Sunday School and 
Primary meetings? This is our duty.”
She spoke of the good instructions given in
the General Conference of the Relief Society.
“One more item comes to my mind—that
of punctuality and obedience, as Brother
Horne spoke of in the days of Noah.” She
then excused President Emma Woodruff to
the conference
	Sister Maria B. Winder: “I feel it an
honor to belong to the Relief Society sisters.
I think they are the best people in the
world.” Spoke of the life of the Prophet
Joseph Smith and the great good he had
done.
	A solo was rendered, with much sweet-
ness and skill, by Miss Crismon.
	Sister Wheeler, President of the Primary
of the Stake, spoke of the responsibility she
felt in her position along with the Relief
Society and the interest parents should take
in their children. “It seems to me that all
the women’s organizations come under the
Relief Society, they are helps to that organ-
zation.” Felt as Sister Young had remarked-
that the responsibility of our children rested
upon the mothers. Announced the Primary
conference to be held in this place the fol-
lowing day. Wished the mothers to attend
and see what their children were being
taught.
	Sister Zina Cannon, president of the Y.
L. M. I. Association of the Stake, spoke of
the relation of the Relief Society M. I. and
Primary to each other. Had once been a
teacher in the Relief Society. Felt that the
young ladies left too much of the hard work
to the older sisters. Thought that the
mothers should know where their daughters
were at nights and not allow them to go
with bad, rough young men, but they
should be home at night; and the young
ladies should not countenance that which is
wrong in young men. Spoke of the inno-
cence of our young girls, and the danger
they were in by going with bad boys. Re-
ferred to her young girlhood days. Hoped
that we would all work unitedly together.
	The president of South Taylorsville re-
ported her ward.
	Brother Thomas Alston said: “One thing
about the meeting I have regretted all day
is that some of the secretaries have failed in
sending in reports. There is a maxim,
that says, ‘Whatever is worth doing is
worth doing well.’ If you have not made
out your reports you have not done your work
well. It is a fact that we are too careless
in these matters. Referred to Holy Writ.
Spoke of our being on hand to do all our
duties on time. It is not those who say
Lord, Lord, but those who will do the
works will gain the reward.


[Column 1]
	Bishop Hamilton, of Mill Creek: “I re-
member a few years ago on my way to Re-
lief Society I met a brother who had just
come out of the penitentiary. I invited
him to come with me. In his remarks he
said, ‘My dear sisters, I love every one of
you.’ I might say the same. I see my
dear mother and a great many good women
here. I have made quite an effort to get
here, but I have been working in the ser-
vice of the Lord. He said we should take
an interest in all the organizations. My
dear sisters, may God bless you and may
we become more acquainted with each
other and with the principles of our re-
ligion.”
	Counselor Mary P. Young: “It has been
moved and seconded that we return a vote of
thanks to the good sisters who have pre-
pared and furnished us with refreshments.
	Singing, “Hail to the Prophet.” Benedic-
tion by Counselor Mary B. Hamilton.
			ARMEDA S. YOUNG, Sec.
		MALAD STAKE.
	The Malad Stake Relief Society held its
quarterly conference at Fielding on Sunday,
August 12, with Stake President Lucinda
Hoskins presiding. On the stand, of the
General Board, were President Jane S.
Richards, Stake President Lucinda Hoskins
and counselors, Secretary Eliza A. Hall and
a good representation of the presidents of
the different branches.
	Meeting opened by the choir singing
“Come, thou glorious day of promise.”
Prayer was offered by President O. C.
Hoskins. Continued by singing “Come
ye that love the Lord.” The minutes of
the previous conference were read and ac-
cepted.
	President Lucinda Hoskins felt happy to
see so many of the sisters in conference;
called for reports from the different branches.
	President Annie Sawyer reported Malad
city; President Jane A. Harris, Portage;
President Eliza A. Ward, Washakie;
President Hannah Griffiths, Samaria;
Counselor Sarah Rudd, Plymouth. All
were in excellent condition, a good spirit
prevailing in each branch reported.
	President Jane S. Richards said, “We do
not desire to speak only as we are dictated
by the Spirit of the Lord. The Relief
Society was organized for the purpose of
taking care of the sick and of those that
cannot take care of themselves. We think
and worry too much over our work and do
not pay enough attention to our spiritual
affairs.” She had never missed anything
by attending her meetings. “We should
divide our means with those less fortunate
than ourselves. It would be well for the
presidents to hold meetings at the home of
some of the sisters that never attend meet-
ings. It has been done and with the very
best results.” She admonished the teachers
to visit all the sisters in each ward and try
to get them to attend their meetings in the
Relief Society, and would gain rich bless-
ings thereby.
	Bishop Henry Hess, of Fielding, esteemed
it a glorious privilege to meet in the Stake

[Column 2]
Conference. “There is a great glory in
store for those sisters who will live humble
and take the advice of those dear sisters that
are over us.
	Myron Richards, Bishop of Riverside, al-
ways enjoyed the instruction given in the
Relief Society conference by these dear sis-
ters who are laboring so diligently for the
upbuilding of the kingdom of our Father in
heaven.
	President Lucinda Hoskins adjourned
the conference until 2 p. m. Meeting
closed by singing “Should you feel inclined
to censure.” Benediction by Stake Counse-
lor Wm. H. Gibbs.
	Afternoon session opened by the choir
singing “High on the mountain tops.”
Prayer was offered by Elder E. Wilcox.
Continued by singing “Again we meet
around the board. ” The sacrament was
then adminisiered by the brethren. Minutes
of the last afternoon conference read and
approved.
	On motion of Christina McCrary, seconded
by Lucinda Hoskins, Jannette Parkinson
was sustained treasurer of the Malad Stake
Relief Society.
	President Alice A. Smith reported the
Fielding Ward; President Lucy Mason, St.
John; President Julia Richards, Riverside;
all in good running order, the sisters alive
to their duties.
	Stake Counselor Christina McCrary and
Secretary Eliza A. Hall then spoke a short
time.
	Sister West, of Ogden, felt thankful she
had a name and standing in the Church and
kingdom of God. Spoke of the healing
ordinances and many other subjects.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke at some
length on the benefit the young ladies
would derive by joining the Relief Society.
We should be willing to make many sacri-
fices in order to keep our children in the
Church. Asked the presidents of associa-
tions to visit the different branches and be-
come acquainted with each other. Asked
God to bless and unite us all together, that
we may be saved in the kingdom of God.
Stated that President Zina D. H. Young
sent her love to all the sisters in Malad
Stake of Zion and would have loved to have
been in our conference.
	President O. C. Hoskins made excellent
remarks, bearing testimony to the instruc-
tions that had been given in our meetings.
The choir sang “Lord, Thou wilt hear us
when we pray.” Benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Frank Walker.
			ELIZA A. HALL, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. A. L. JOHNSON
has removed her studio to the Templeton
building, where she will be pleased to meet
her friends and pupils and all who feel an
interest in a study of the SCIENCE OF
SELF CULTURE, a knowledge of which
will eradieate all disease from the human
system.
	Free conversations Wednesday afternoon
at 2:30, the same evening at 7:30.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St. Salt Lake City.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . , . .

See that your tickets read via the 
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.			G. P. & T. A

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE

				Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mall” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City...................................................	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver......................................................	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver..	6 40 p.m.

				Arrive Salt Lake City
No. 5	The “Fast Mall” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City...........................................................	3 00 p.m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited" from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver..	3 00 p.m.
No. 3	The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver......................................................	3 30 p.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 65
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.


Woman's Exponent
	The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol 29	SALT LAKE-CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, & DECEMBER 1, 1900.					Nos. 12 & 13


CONTENTS.
A Thanksgiving Incident...........Aunt Em 49
R. S. Report.......................................50
A Wonderful Manifestation........................50
Primary Officers Reunion....Lucy M. Hilton 51
U. W. P. C........................Grace Anderson 51
School of Self-culture............A. L. Johnson 51
Notes and News......................................51
Uintah Stake.............................53
The Philippine Situation......Grace Anderson 54
Obituary.........................................54
A Good Woman Gone.............John Clark 55
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton................55
A Household of Women............E. C. Stanton 56
EDITORIAL—The New Century...............52
	Report of tho National Council.............52
	Editorial Notes..........................53
POETRY—Sometimes...........Ellis R. Shipp 49
	T e Mother...................................51


SOMETIMES.

Sometimes we find a pearl upon the shore,
	Of perfect tint, and form of untold worth, 
And there beside the ocean’s ceaseless roar,
	We marvel such a gem could be for earth.

Sometimes there floats on ether’s ozone wave,
	A fragrant breath, as from an unseen flower,
As if it were Immortal Hand that gave
	The luscious increase from Elysian bower. 

Sometimes we hear a sweet, entrancing strain, 
Breathed forth in twilight’s holy, soothing hour,
Which thrills the finest tendrils of the brain
	As by electric and enchanting power.

Sometimes there comes to us so fair a day, 
A sky so blue, so free from darkening cloud,
It seems a brilliant meteor gone astray,
	While all our senses sing and praise aloud.

Sometimes we find a perfect summer land, 
Where balmy breezes bear the fragrant breath 
Of ever blooming flowers, where nature's hand
	Doth ne’er o’er spread the earth with nature's
		death.

Sometimes we meet in life a noble friend,
	Who true and faithful proves e’en unto death,
Our inmost natures seem in one to blend
	As roses with the summer zephyrs breath.

Sometimes in life the human heart may know
	A love devoted, fervent, true and pure;
Affection that will beam with ne’er unceasing
	glow, 
Through all life’s fitful changes we endure.

Sometimes there comes to us so great a joy— 
A bliss so fraught with holy peace and light—
A happiness with none of earth’s alloy,
	Which sets all mortal cares and fears to flight.

Sometimes we have emotions which transcend
	All other blissful feelings here on earth,
’Tis when we know that God is our enduring.
	Friend,
	And through His love we’ll gain Celestial birth.

ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
A THANKSGIVING INCIDENT.
	Horace, I’m going home to Thanks-
giving tomorrow, it will be our last in
New England, if we go West in the spring,
and I must spend it in the old home with
mother and the folks,” said a timid young
bride to her husband, who could not think
of refusing her, tho’ he knew his mother
would object, which she did very strongly.
But young Mrs. H. was determined, tho'
saddened by the opposition; or did she
have premonitions of the future which she
could not comprehend. Be that as it may, 
we shall see what followed.
	Thanksgiving morning came after a
sleepless night, for so sensitive was the
young bride that an unkind word or even

[Column 2]
a look was enough to bring tears to her
eyes, so pitifully young and tender-hearted
was this bride of a few months.
	The breakfast table presented some ap-
pearance of approaching festivities, with
evergreen vines and bowls of winter
flowers, and the indispensable savory
meats and pumpkin pie. But tho’ the
family urged the young couple to remain
with them, Mrs. H could not consent, and
soon the merry sleigh bells were jingling
at the door, and off they flew over the hills
and down the accustomed road by the pond
where skating was already beginning, for
the weather was cold in those days and
snow and ice were plentiful.
	The sleigh ride was exhilarating and the
gloom wore off as they gaily sped along,
every house, every tree was familiar and
they talked of the village people as they
sped over the country roads, but ever and
anon came to the young wife the forebod-
ings of the future leave-taking of the old
home and friends, the forest, through
which they drove on their way reminded
her most of all of what it would be to leave
the dear old woods and giant trees under
which she had so often sat and dreamed
wide awake of the happy days to come.
“And now were these day dreams to be
realized?” was her thought as she sped
homeward.
	Looking at the house and trees beautiful
in the white snow, out came the dear
ones to welcome her, and her thoughts
were, "This is a day for giving thanks.”
	We are all here except one or two
whom we expect later because of the dis-
tance,” said the dear mother. “We’re
glad to see you here, we were fearful you
would be detained at home. Now we
shall all be together once more before you
take that long journey Westward.”
	Those were not the days of fast trains
and electric cars. People came from miles
away in old-fashioned coaches or one
horse chaise to celebrate festive occasions
and in the winter time sleighs were plenti-
ful, everybody used them.
	Through the great, wide rooms adorned
with hemlock boughs and evergreen vines,
with the scarlet berries, the young wife,
led by the little ones, wended her way,
pausing before the great fire of pine knots
to take off her wraps, for the staircase was
cold after the long ride in the frosty morn-
ing air. Already the younger children
were plying her with questions and telling
her how they missed her when gathering
the evergreens and ferns to decorate with.
	“We didn’t know where to find the pret-
tiest vines, such as you always brought
home other years, and we had such a
tramp around by the great rocks we’ll
never care to go again even in summer
time if you’re not here to show us.”
	“Come and look at the table, Sarah, you
will see what a  Thanksgiving dinner
smoking hot is ready, only waiting for
William and Eliza, with little Isadore,”
and before the party reached the North
room, never used except when tables were
set for many guests, because too large to
warm with only a fireplace, another sleigh

[Column 3]
came jingling its bells up the lane, and out
flew the occupants, and wild with delight
came little Katie and all the crowd to greet
with real thanksgiving the new arrivals.
	Soon all were seated, the mother having
arranged them all in order on each side
with the eldest married son at the head of
the table to carve the steaming roast turkey
while she served the vegetables, taking
sp cial pains to have the baked beans pip-
ing hot from the large brown earthen pan
in which they had come from the great
brick oven in the kitchen. The mother
herself pronounced the blessing and the
feasting was graced with the usual New
England Table Talk of bounteous harvests
and Thanksgiving events, entertainments,
sleigh rides and balls.
	The dinner over the family gathered into 
the long living room where the air was frag-
grant with the perfume of spruce and hem-
lock. Outside the snow was falling, but
little heed was paid to the storm, for around
the blazing fire the young people and chil-
dren kept up a constant stream of lively
conversation, laughing, jest and song,
nothing could bespeak the genuine enjoy-
ment and goodfellowship of the household
more than this scene presented oh that
Thanksgiving in the old home.
	But we must hasten on to tell our story
and not linger over details, however
agreeable that may be to us.
	There was a sort of feeling, a premonition
among the guests that this was a farewell 
party, and each one tried to shake off the
foreboding that seemingly darkened their
hearts and the house itself even tho’
lamps were lighted and the pine knots blazed
higher as the evening advanced. Around
the hearth in a half semicircle the family
group gathered, and stories of frolic and ad-
venture were told to dispel the gloom, and
old, old songs were sung and childhood’s
memories recalled, and as it grew late, the
little ones were put to bed with prayers
upon their lips, and the ring around the
fireside broken in upon, when on a sudden,
in the middle of singing “Lochinvar,” the
joyous music of a band burst upon the
evening air; the doors were flung open and
in came the jolly crowd of musicians and
their friends. It broke the spell and dis-
pelled the gloom and for a few hours sweet
strains of music filled the rooms and glad-
dened all hearts, and was indeed a chorus of
thanksgiving and praise. What we owe to
music is indeed beyond language to express.
The young people and the band had come
in unbidden to salute the bride, not having
had the opportunity to serenade the bridal
party at the time of their wedding as they
had gone away immediately to the adjacent
town, but hearing they were at the old
home for Thanksgiving, and also being
aware of their intention to go West in the
Spring, this was an opportune time, and
the music and revelry was kept up to a
late hour, so that there was no further
chance to indulge in the “blues,” or to bid
a melancholy adieu to those who had come
long distances, except in haste, as one after
another the sleighs drove away after it was
past the midnight hour.


But as coming events cast their shadows
before, so it was with those assembled there
at that time, and they parted disguising
their real feelings in pity for each other.
Byron says:
	“Lets not unman each other—part at once
	All farewells should be sudden when forever
	Else they make an eternity of moments.”
	Never again did those assembled on that
evening all meet together. Out from under
that roof tree, where so many happy days
had been spent, so many festive occasions
celebrated, they went, and no doubt the
picture lingered lovingly in their memory
long years after. It is now more than fifty
years, and the vision is in the mind of the
writer still vivid. The wintry scene with-
out; the winter decorations within; the blaz-
ing fires; the New England dinner; the
generous hospitality; the jokes, the songs,
the merriment—and over all the shadows of
the future; the broken home; the scattered
flock; the desolate hearthstone.
	Where are they now? Some sleep in
warrior’s graves, who were babies then; and
one beside the sea in the far-off Indies, the
mother in an unknown grave on the broad
Western prairie, and others died at home
and their graves are marked by monuments
of stone; and some of the older ones still
live with large families of their own, and of
these a few are aged and feeble, looking for-
ward to the brighter and more complete
Thanksgiving, when they shall meet the
blessed mother and the loved ones gone be-
fore.
	Many joys have crowned the lives of some
of those assembled on that day, although the
world is full of sorrows and of mourning,
yet there have been many melodious days
and happy hours, and looking backward
over life’s changing, shifting scenes, one
cannot regret, but must rejoice that such
family meetings occur to link more closely
together kindred ties, even if the shadows
do hang over them.
	A New England Thanksgiving lives in
the memory of the writer one of its most
beautiful, ideal pictures; and may the cus-
tom which originated with our Pilgrim
Fathers, and which has become general
throughout the United States, be perpetuated
forever.
AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society conference
convened in the Tabernacle August 24,
1900, Stake President Elizabeth DeLong
presiding.
	Present on the stand besides the Stake
officers were Sister Margaret A. Caine, who
had come especially for the conference,
President Cameron, Bishop A. Hiller and
counselors, Bishop Culbert King, Patriarch
Joseph L. Heywood, beside in the congre-
gation many prominent men of Panguitch
and other wards.
	After singing, and prayer by David
Cameron, the roll was called. Minutes of
previous conference were read and accepted,
also the order of business in accepting the
resignation of Sister Barbara Myers and
sustaining the new officers, which was made
part of the records. A vote of thanks was
tendered Sister Myers for many years of
faithful service as Stake President.

[Column 2]
	Mary B. Heywood reported the Panguitch
ward. Said the March 17 anniversary was
well observed and had the effect of putting
new life into the society for a little while.
	President Sarah Howell reported Circle-
ville. Felt they were doing fairly well
under the circumstances.
	President Mary T. Wilcox reported
Escalante. They had seventy-five members
and an average attendance of thirty. The
teachers gave good reports.
	President Delilah Rowan reported
Marion. Their society was small but com-
pared favorably with those already reported.
	President Isabelle King reported Kings-
ton. Some young girls had lately joined.
The sisters were all good and willing to help
whenever called upon.
	President DeLong was pleased to see so
many present. Had visited all the societies
except Marion, would go there later. Had
no Mothers’ clubs but were all mothers or
would like to be, and ought to be qualified
to fill any position in the gift of the Gospel
or the gift of the government. Wanted to
give the time to Sister Caine, who had
come to talk to us, prayed the Lord to bless
her to this end.
	Sister Caine felt pleased with all she had
seen in regard to the society here. The
Lord had never given a law restraining the
Latter-day Saints in gaining knowledge.
The Prophet Joseph studied diligently all
the time and at his death spoke three dif-
ferent languages besides his own tongue.
Wished to extend the greeting of Aunt
Zina and counselors, also Sister Wells, who
are just as interested as they can be in all
the sisters. Wanted to talk on the real ob-
ject of society work this afternoon, as it had
been inferred there would be more present.
	Counselor David Cameron felt the society
was a great place for learning, looked upon
it as a society of [-]otherly queens. We are
equally interested in Father’s work, men
and women, and would hardly know how to
get along without the Relief Society in
time of sickness and need. Prayed the
Lord to bless the society everywhere.
	Congregation sang "Zion stands with
hills surrounded." Prayer by Bishop King.
	Afternoon session. Conference recon-
vened at 2 p. m. After singing and prayer,
Bishop Allen Hiller said he knew of no
organization that was of more importance in
the ward than the society, nor more alive
and active.
	Report of 1899 was read and approved.
	Sister Permelia Hatch then reported
Mammoth society. Their ward was nearly
broken up on account of the reservoir flood.
	Sister Caine wanted the sisters to under-
stand the purpose of the organization, no
other can take the place of this. It was to
qualify them for high and holy positions.
Mothers can better prepare for family
prayers than any one else, also to instil the
principle of tithe-paying upon the children.
Retrenchment as taught by President Young
did not mean altogether in dress, but in
cooking good and wholesome food and less
pastry, and in all our home work to find
time to improve the mind. If we sustain
those who are placed over us the Lord will
bless aud preserve us against the judg-
ments to come. President Woodruff
approved of the International Council of
Women and of the Relief Society affiliating
with both the National and International
Councils. Asked the sisters to sustain the
EXPONENT.
	Singing “How firm a foundation.”

[Column 3]
	General and Stake officers were sustained
unanimously.
	Counselor Alice J. Cameron felt weak,
but well paid in attending meeting.
	Sister M. Isabelle Henrie felt we had re-
ceived much valuable instruction and with
the help of the Lord intended to improve
her opportunities better.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Praise to God, immortal praise.”
Prayer by James Houston.
H. A. CROSBY, Sec.


A WONDERFUL MANIFESTATION.
	The history of the terrible disaster that
overtook Galveston, Texas, a while ago,
would be incomplete without a brief note of
the experience of some “Mormon” Elders
who labored as missionaries in that city at
the time of the flood which brought death
and destruction to so many souls. Accord-
ing to a letter received at the News office,
there were four Elders in the city, viz:
Peter Norton, of Pima, Ariz.; Horace L.
Johnson, of Thatcher, Ariz.; Samuel Shaw,
of North Ogden, Utah, and Heber N.
Folkman, of Plain City, Utah, and they all
were preserved as by a miracle, while
thousands fell on the right hand and thou-
sands more on the left.
	These Elders had then been laboring in
Galveston for the past three mouths and a
half. It seems, however, that their testi-
mony had been rejected and they were about
to leave when the flood came.
	On the fatal night they were stopping
with a family named Daniels. As the
water rose and reached the house, these
good people fled panic stricken to higher
ground, leaving the Elders alone in the
house. These went upstairs and commended
themselves to the care of divine Providence.
When the morning broke and the desola-
tion wrought stood forth in all its awe-
inspiring details it was found that the house
in which the Elders were, was the only one
in the entire neighborhood that had escaped
damage.
	It seems these missionaries were during
the entire night of horror unconscious of the
extent of the visitation. Elder Norton in
his letter to the News says part of the night
they slept, though the water was surging
and the wind was raging all around them.
When in the morning they went out to see
what damage had been done, they were
astonished to learn the extent of the disaster.
They saw corpses everywhere. Men,
women and children had met death either
by drowning or under the falling houses.
There was no difference now between rich
and poor, white and black. Death had
placed them all on about the same level.
	The miraculous preservation of the house
in which the “Mormon” Elders had been
given shelter that night must have been a
powerful testimony to some of the people
who had rejected their message. And there
are many such testimonies both in the his-
tory of the Latter-day Saints’ mission, and
in the experience of Church members. If
they were written they would form a volume
of pecular interest. To the eye of faith
they would demonstrate that God is the
same today as he was in the time of Moses
and the first Apostles.
	The memory of their experience will
probably never entirely fade away from the
minds of those Elders; it should be to them
an ever abiding testimony, and a subject of
thanksgiving;—Deseret News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE MOTHER.
It was April's blossoming spring,
They buried me when the birds did sing,

Earth, in clammy, wedging earth,
They banked my bed with black, damp girth.

Under the damp and under the mould,
I kenned my breast were clammy and cold.

Out from the red beams, slanting and bright,
I kenned my cheeks were sunken and white,

I was a dream and the world was a dream,
And yet I kenned all things that seem.

I was a dream, and the world was a dream,
But you cannot bury a red sunbeam.

For though in the under-graves doom-night
I lay all silent and stark and white,

Yet over my head I seemed to know
The murmurous moods of wind and snow,

The snows that wasted, the winds that blew,
The rays that slanted, the clouds that drew

The water-ghosts up from the lakes below,
And the little flower-souls in earth that grow.

Under earth in the grave’s stark night,
I felt the stars and the moon’s pale light,

I felt the winds of ocean and land
That whispered the blossoms soft and bland.

Though they had buried me dark and low,
My soul with the season’s seemed to grow.

From throes of pain they buried me low,
For death had finished a mother’s woe.

But under the sod in the grave's dread doom.
I dreamed of my baby in glimmer and gloom.

I dreamed of my babe, and I kenned that his
	rest
Was broken in wailings on my dead breast.

I dreamed that a rose-leaf hand did cling;
Oh, you cannot bury a mother in spring!

When the winds are soft and the blossoms are red[-]
She could not sleep in her cold earth-bed.

I dreamed of my babe for a day and a night,
And then I rose in my graveclothes white.

I rose like a flower from my damp earth-bed
To the world of sorrowing overhead.

Men would have called me a thing of harm,
But dreams of my babe made me rosy and warm.

I felt my breasts swell under my shroud;
No star shone white, no winds were loud;

But I stole me past the graveyard wall,
For the voice of my baby seemed to call;

And I kenned me a voice, though my lips were
	dumb:
Hush, baby, hush! for mother is come.

I passed the streets to my husband's home;
The chamber stairs in a dream I clomb,

I heard the sound of each sleeper's breath,
Like waves that break on the shores of death.

I listened a space at my chamber door,
Then stole like a moon-ray over its floor.

My babe was asleep on a stranger arm,
"O, baby, my baby, the grave is so warm,

"Though dark and so deep, for mother is there!
O, come with me, from the pain and care!

"O, come with me from the anguish of earth,
Where the bed is banked with a blossoming
	girth,

"Where the pillow is soft and the rest is long,
And mother will croon you a slumber song.

"A slumber song that will charm your eyes
To a sleep that never in earth-song lies!

"The loves of earth your being can spare,
But never the grave, for mother is there."

I nestled him soft to my throbbing breast,
And stole me back to my long, long rest.

And here I lie with him under the stars,
Dead to earth, its peace and its wars;

Dead to its hates, its hopes and its harms,
So long as he cradles up soft in my arms.

[Column 2]
And heaven may open its shimmering doors,
And saints make music on pearly floors,

And hell may yearn to its infinite sea,
But they never can take my baby from me.

For so much a part of my soul he hath grown
That God doth know of it high on His throne.

And here I lie with him under the flowers
That sun-winds rock through the billowy hours,

With the night-airs that steal from the murmur-
	ing sea,
Bringing sweet peace to my baby and me.

	This poem was suggested by the following passage in
Tyler's Animisni. The pathetic German superstition that
the dead mother coming back in the night to suckle the
baby she has left on earth, may be known by the hollow
pressed down in the bed where she lay.


PRIMARY OFFICERS REUNION.
    The Primary officers of the Jordan Stake
held their first annual reunion on Thursday,
October 25, at the ward house, Crescent, at
2 p. m. Brother Hyrum Goff, of the Stake
presidency, and many of the Stake officers
of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
were present, and about a hundred of the
Stake and local Primary officers.
    The program was a very interesting one
and consisted of songs, recitations and
music, interspersed with brief addresses by
some of our visitors.
    President Hyrum Goff in the toast, “The
Ladies,” told of the many amiable qualities
of the fair sex and Primary officers, in par-
ticular. Much good counsel and en-
couragement was given by all the speakers.
    At the close of the program delicious re-
freshments were passed around by a com-
mittee of young ladies and a delightful time
was enjoyed by all present.
		    LUCY M. HILTON, Stake Sec.


U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. met in the EXPONENT
office, September 29, 1900. Opening
prayer was offered by Dr. Romania B.
Pratt. Roll call responded to by original
sentiments. Mrs. McVicker spoke on the
educational work. The president reported
from the Club Council. A new president is
to be elected for the council next month.
All the Kindergarten work was re-
ported. The Kindergarten has been opened
and all club members who can are asked to
contribute. Emma Jenson and Phebe C.
Young are appointed as members on that
committee.
	A paper was then read on the Phillipine
Situation, by Grace Anderson. Emma
Jensen read a paper on Women’s Congresses
in Paris. Aimee C. Schiller read a well
prepared paper on Current Events, and a
short discussion followed.
	It was decided to hold our business meet-
ing October 1, at 3:30 p. m., to prepare for
the annual meeting and the election of
officers.
	Meeting adjourned. Prayer by Phebe
C. Young.
				GRACE ANDERSON, Sec.


MISS ANTHONY continues in about the
same state of health, neither better nor
worse.

    THE Paris Exposition report states that
50,000,000 visitors were admitted during
the time it was open.

    IT is reported that Holland has expressed
a wish to purchase on behalf of Kurger, for
the exiled Boers, a portion of German
Southwest Africa.


SCHOOL OF SELF-CULTURE.

		MRS. A. L. JOHNSON.

    To understand the proper method of
breathing is essential to health, and when
the breathing organs are in order we are in
possession of that abundance of life which
Jesus brought to earth when He said, “I
come that those that have life may have it
more abundantly.” Abdominal breathing
is essential to life and happiness, and with
a knowledge of hygiene and rhythmic
movement of the body all disease can be ex-
pelled from the system, and we can gain,
to a great extent, the elasticity of youth.
    But before this much desired condition
can be brought about we must have con-
trol over the joints and muscular system,
giving the body its freedom. Knowledge
of self-culture, rightly applied, will enable
us to regain our lost strength and power,
giving strength and easy movement to the
body, developing that physical beauty
which nature has endowed her children
with. Most of our ailments, especially
throat and lung troubles, are brought on by
a lack of knowledge in breathing. When
we breathe only from the lungs we are soon
exhausted, the supply being limited.
    A knowledge of abdominal breathing
gives an increase of force and vitality to the
entire system undreamed of. With a little
practice every movement becomes natural,
giving easy grace. As health returns to
the body the eye becomes bright, the form
erect, the voice sweet and clear. Few
realize the actual benefits to be derived from
a knowledge of self-culture. Mrs. Johnson
has a book on the various subjects that gives
full instructions for hygienic treatment and
exercises. Those at a distance can write
for the book and she will be pleased to give
any instructions by letter or make arrange-
ments for classes in or out of the city. For
further particulars call or address Mrs. A.
L. Johnson, 503 and 504 Templeton 
Building.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MARK TWAIN has come home again after
a journey around the world. He is in good
health and fine spirits at the age of sixty-
five years.
	THE death of Charles Dudley Warner,
which occurred October 1, has taken away
one of the foremost literary men of the age,
but besides his loss to the world of letters,
he was a man of highly developed social
quality, much more genial than is usual in
men of such rare gifts and scholastic attain-
ments.
	The Suffrage Bazaar in Madison Square,
New York City, will be one of the unique
exhibits of the closing year of the century.
A distinguishing feature will consist of
booths and tables in honor of the most emi-
nent women in the suffrage movement.
Mrs. F. S. Richards, president of the Utah
Woman’s Council made the collection in
Utah for the Bazaar display, and forwarded
the articles to New York. Mrs. Gilmer
will be in charge of the Utah Booth or
Table. Governor Wells, of Utah, sent a
beautiful doll handsomely dressed, and the
ladies of the Council furnished an elegant
Navajo blanket. Other articles of fancy
work and pictures by home artists were
donated, also some books by home authors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE. D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

    Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.

   EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications t[-]

					    Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
						     SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as

 econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOV. 15 & DEC.1, 1900.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW CENTURY.

    Whatever may be the fate of the world a
century later one cannot help feeling and
realizing that the United States, the Repub-
lic of America is marching onward to a
high destiny. American women have
brought about great changes in the last fifty
years—the advance towards a higher civil-
zation, a purer and better government is
largely due to the women reformers and
educators, not only here, but in other
countries.
    The rapid strides that are being made in
the arts and sciences are not altogether
man’s achievements, woman; too,  has
striven courageously in these directions and 
against popular prejudice, making it so
much the more difficult to attain a degree o[-]
excellence equal with man.
    Development goes forward and ideas ac-
cumulate as the world grows older, and
men and women who seriously contemplate
life and action, and who engage in any pur-
suit or calling of a lofty nature, enter upon
it heart and soul and seem to be lifted by a
sort of mental and spiritual enthusiasm into
higher ranges of sublimity than were known
a hundred years ago.
    Woman’s future in business will be large-
ly co-operative, for assuredly the movement
is gaining ground steadily; but men and
women will unite generally in these lines,
and women can be trusted in many matters.
They consider business matters more
seriously. With them a steady occupation
is almost a religion, conscience enters
largely into their daily life. Already
women have covered a broad field in this
direction, in figures and mathematics many
of the sex are experts. As clerks, steno-
graphers and accountants they are more
generally reliable than men, for the simple
reason that they are less given to habits of
dissipation, smoking, drinking, and so forth,
and consequently less inclined to make errors.
    The conscientious delicacy and tact
natural to the feminine nature fits them par-
ticularly for some of the professions, especial-
ly the medical, and it cannot be gainsaid
that so far where opportunity has been given
women in the professions, they have shown
themselves, in almost every instance, on
record, equal to the occasion, however per-
plexing or difficult, or even embarassing
the situation might be.
    That we are now on the threshold of

[Column 2]
greater changes than have ever taken place
in the world’s history, one must believe
who watches the trend of events, and as-
suredly these wonderful changes are for the
uplifting and betterment of mankind and
all humanity. The spiritual vision is clear-
er, greater light and knowledge has come
through research and the development of
higher intelligence, a nd we are approaching
a sublime crisis in the dawning of the new
century.
    That the future business of the world
will be conducted by men and women in
co-operative movements and institutions,
and that thus greater progress will be made
industrially, there can be little doubt, be-
cause both are equally interested in the suc-
cess of enterprises and the strong elements of
man’s nature can be modified by intuition
and the painstaking and persistency of the
feminine in woman. There will be greater
improvement along all lines of business and
trades when women not only give advice
and lend their influence, but when they
actually manipulate side by side the modus
operandi of the great schemes now almost
entirely in the hands of men.
    Domestic service, hygiene and sanitation
will become so perfect in household matters
that the drudgery of cooking will no longer
be a terror to the young bride, her own
knowledge of the science of life and of living
will be her safeguard, and the young mother
will never know (by experience) the bitter
trials of the mothers of the psst centuries,
for knowledge is power and the night of
ignorance is fast passing, and the morning
of science is dawning and the next gener-
ation will bask in its light, and it may be 
that man will so order his life that he may
live to the age of a tree, as the scripture
foretells.


[Column 1]
   REPORT OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.
    The National Council of Women of the
United States held its annual business ses-
sion in Minneapolis Minnesota, this year,
by invitation of the Local Council of that
city. These meetings were set for Novem-
ber 13, 14, and 15, 1900, but from the
multiplicity of business to be transacted, it
was not possible to close the executive
meetings until Friday, November 16, at
one p. m., and even then some matters
were left over to be finished by the
General officers.
    These were indeed most interesting
meetings of this great Council, and the
Minneapolis ladies proved their generous
hospitality and welcome, as well as sym-
pathy with the cause of woman’s work in
many ways, that gave the Council good
and lasting impressions of their warm-
heartedness and nobility; also of the Mayor
and citizens of that enterprising and rapidly
growing city of the far-famed Minnehaha.
    We regret that the weather was so in-
clement when the meetings closed that we
could not venture out to see those beautiful
falls mentioned by one of our greatest
American poets in the favorite poem
“Hiawatha.”
    On Monday, November 12, a luncheon
was given by the ladies of the Relief Corps
of that Post at half past one, at the Nicolet
Hotel, in honor of their General-President,
Mrs. Mary L. Carr, of Denver, and the
officers of the Council. Only a few ladies
had yet arrived, but we who had come in
early were royally welcomed. The parlors
were gaily decorated and the banquet pre-
pared was on a magnificent scale. Hand-

[Column 2]
some menu cards and a beautiful rose were
provided for each guest, and the tables ar-
ranged in the form of the letter T were set
for fifty persons. Mrs. Morrison, chaplain
of the St Paul Lodge, pronounced the blessing
and the most social geniality prevailed
among the guests. The president of the
Minnesota Post gave a tribute of welcome
to her superior officer, the General-Presi-
dent, Mrs. Carr, to which the lady replied
in fitting words of goodfellowship and love
for the cause for which they unitedly stood.
One or two others of the local Relief Corps
spoke, and officers of the Council, including
the writer, complied briefly with the polite
request. Mrs. Higbee and the other Past
presidents of the Local Council of Minne-
apolis each added a few choice words of
greeting and welcome, making the affair “a
feast of reason and a flow of soul.”
    The same evening a reception was given
by these ladies in the parlors of the Nicolet
Hotel, quite a number of gentlemen also
being present, Grand Army men and other
citizens mingling in the brilliant affair.
Many handsome costumes were worn and
decorations of the order and flags and ban-
ners were quite conspicuous. Patriotic
musical selections by the band; and fruit
punch was served by young girls in soft,
dainty silk and organdy dresses of the most
approved styles, with ribbons and laces to
match. It was a festive occasion and one
full of pleasant memories of the grand
women who are interested in the home and
the state of Minnesota, and the welfare of
the world. Such women are growing in
numbers throughout this great and free
Republic. Mrs. McCune arrived in time
for the evening reception, she having to
travel from Omaha on another route from
the writer.
    On Tuesday from four to six, another
reception was tendered by Mrs. Walker, of
Minneapolis, and other local ladies, to the
Council, at the handsome residence of Mrs.
Walker, who is famous for her philanthropic
work and for her personal help in the way
of culture to the public. Every day, we
were informed, her gallery of choice paint-
ings is thrown open so that the students
and people desiring to avail themselves of
this privilege of cultivating the eye and
heart by gazing upon the workmanship of
great artists, have a wonderful advantage
in this private collection, many of them
gems of great value.
    Here, too, the ladies were entertained
uniquely by a band of girl musicians, who
discoursed sweet strains of music during
the entire time, and the music room and
dining room were beautifully decorated
with a variety of lovely flowers, daintily
scattered about here and there. Tea, coffee
and cocoa, with wafers, candies and cake,
were served to all guests who could leave
the picture gallery long enough to partake
of the dainty refreshments. At the table
we had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Has-
kell, whose father and husband are news-
paper people of the Boston Herald and
Minneapolis Tribune; Mrs. Holman,
daughter of the hostess, and widow of the
Reverend Dr. Holman, who took a tour
through Utah for his health a few years
ago. Mrs. Holman speaks with much
feeling of the kindness received from our
people in the south, and we very much en-
joyed a few minutes conversation with one
who had sojourned for a time among our
people and knew something of their cor-
diality to strangers. She mentioned


[Column 1]
especially the Woolleys of Kanab, Can-
nons and Brooks of St. George.
	The Local Council of Minneapolis also
gave a reception to the officers, delegates
and members of the National Council on
Thursday afternoon at half past three, in
the parlors of the West Hotel, the Coun-
cil’s headquarters. Mrs. Higbee, the
president of the Council, was hostess. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, the president
of the International Council, was
present at this reception, but was obliged
to leave early for home. She, as well as
Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, always
shine in brilliant assemblies of this kind.
Both have great charms and dress with ex-
cellent taste. The writer imagines that one
would know at a glance that Mrs. Gaffney
lived in the City of New York, both by her
dress and manners. Dr. Kate Waller
Barrett, although always in the black garb
of her calling, is a woman of the South, one
must know it by her Southern polish and
attraction. She carries the unmistakable
stamp both in manner and speech. Bril-
liant, witty and emotional and a wonderful
speaker. Rev. Annie Garlin Spencer is
another type with all the collegiate graces of
manner and correctness of language. Her
gray costume might make one suspect her
a Quaker, and she comes from Providence,
Rhodelsland; but instead of Puritianism she
holds most broad and liberal views on
religious questions and all others. Then
we have Mrs.Solomon, a pronounced Jewish
type, but with the grand and lofty aspira-
tions of the tribe of Judah concerning her
people, interested in all that makes for their
advancement, but especially in religion and
the Bible, a woman of strong character.
	Though, as our readers know, we are not
given to describing costumes, yet while
mentioning others Mrs. McCune, of our
own city, might with all due propriety be
spoken of, because she wore an elegant Paris
gown of black lace which suited her style
remarkably well, and was sufficiently con-
spicuous for the writer to observe, even
among so many elegant dresses.
	Mrs. Peck, the Vice-President, was not
able to be present, but there were presidents
and delegates from many of the National
organizations belonging to the Council,
some of whom we knew well and others we
had not known heretofore. Mrs. Mary
Newbury Adams, of Iowa; Mrs. I. C.
Manchester, of Rhode Island; Mrs. [-]iske,
of Minneapolis; Mrs. Lillian E. Hollister,
of Michigan; Mrs. Emma R. Wallace, of
Chicago, and Mrs. Flo Jameson Miller, of
llinois. Miss Bower, of Detroit, and Mrs.
Terrell of Washington, D. C., were women
we had known previously,some of them for
many years. The new acquaintances we
met more familiarly were Mrs. Olds, of
Elyria, Ohio; Mrs. Woods, Quincy, Ill.;
Mrs. Glazier, of Ft. Madison, Iowa; Mrs.
Burns, of Michigan; Miss Mannering, of
Chicago; Mrs. Parry, who gave us a copy of
her poems, and Dr. Cora Smith Eaton, of
Minneapolis, a schoolfellow and fellow-
graduate of Miss Babcock’s, who was de-
lighted to see us because we knew her at
home in Salt Lake, and sent loving mes-
sages to her by us.
	There is not space to tell all the good
things about the women of the Council, but
we must mention one or two facts. First,
that Mrs. Gaffney is a fine presiding officer,
just and courteous to all, with unfailing
patience and always punctual and knows
how to economize time. Her opening ad-

[Column 2]
dress was a masterpiece and a great credit
to the Council, as was the welcome extended
by Mrs. Leach and Mrs. Tuttle, of Min-
neapolis, and also that of Mayor James
Gray of that city. The Mayor dwelt
much npon women influencing public senti-
ment and their work in education, and on
the school boards, etc. Certainly one of the
ablest speeches made during any of the open
meetings, was on Tuesday evening, by
Professor Maria Sanford, of the University
of Minnesota. She elaborated upon the
larger life with broader purposes, if men
and women would work together upon
practical matters in the home, the city, the
state, the country and the world. Gave
practical illustrations of what cnildren had
been induced to do in cleaning and beautify-
ing that city, etc, when sufficiently aroused
by means of prizes offered and such like in-
ducements.
	At the gathering extended by the Local
Council, as at all the others, we met many
beautiful women, one cannot even remem-
ber the names, but it was an exchange of
greetings between women of a great variety
of faiths and from all points of the compass.
Music of the choicest kind; and flags and
flowers in available places gladdened the eye
and enlivened the scene. In a gathering of
this sort one notes the many highly intel-
lectual faces that make the ocoasion more
attractive than aught else. Unexpectedly
one meets with kindred spirits, and here
we met one of the Wells family of Wethers-
field and Hartford, also one of the Whitneys
of New England.
	Very little time can be given to social
gatherings when the Council meets for
morning, afternoon and evening sessions.
There are meetings to be attended and work
to be accomplished as well as speeches and
reports to be listened to, if one keeps in
touch with the spirit of the Council. News-
paper women seemed to enter most heartily
into the real merits of the Council, and to
comprehend its highest ideals.
	The objects of the Council have been
furthered at this meeting and we may look
forward to hopeful suggestions from these
able women. A telegram received from
Miss Anthony said: “I send greetings to
my daughters of the most comprehensive
organization of women, and the one in
which I have the greatest hope.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
Prof. Evan Stephens has begun the com-
pilation of a Hymn Book for the
Primary Associations suitable to the needs
and understanding of the little folks, and
that will stimulate them to excel in vocal
exercises. We understand the hymns and
songs are by local writers and are carefully
selected.
We acknowledge with sincere thanks the
gift of the little pamphlet of the late Con-
ference and banquet, which is a brief sum-
mary of Primary work, though not given in
statistics, the papers and remarks show
plainly the progress of this beautiful work
among the children of Zion There cannot
be too much said of this noble undertaking
of these good sisters who freely, for the
love of the children, have taken hold of
this primary work which lies at the found-
ation of the lives of those who are to be
the very bulwarks of the Church in days to
come.
We are very much pleased to hear that on

[Column 2]
President C. O. Card’s birthday, Novem-
ber 5, of this year, the day was made a
social event at the Card home in Cardston,
Canada, and the commodious new brick
residence of the family was dedicated with
appropriate ceremony. May health, pros-
perity and all that tends to make life
valuable be and abide with President Card
and his entire family, and especially do we
rejoice that Sister Young Card has a home
where she can dispense the generous hos-
pitality in a social way which she has al-
ways delighted in doing.
Since our last issue of the paper visits
have been made by members of the General
Board and others. Cache Stake conference
at Logan, President Jane S. Richards and
Sister Ellen J. Stevens; Oneida Stake con-
ference, at Preston, President Susan Grant,
who also accompanied President L. B. Ben-
son, of the Relief Society of that Stake in her
visits to each of the settlements where she
has jurisdiction. Sister L. Lula Greene
Richards attended Tooele Stake conference,
at Grantsville. We have a letter from
President Ann C: Woodbury, who has
recently been visiting through the Southern 
part of St. George Stake visiting and hold-
ing meetings with every Relief Society in
the locality, and from others who have
visited at a distance, which will be published
later.
On Tuesday, November 20, President
M. Isabella Horne reached the great age of
82 years A party was given in her honor
by her daughters at the residence of her
daughter, Mrs. Minnie H. James. About
twenty of the sisters and intimate personal
friends were present, among them the
venerable sisters, Presidents Zina D. H.
Young and Bathsheba W. Smith, Sister
Julia C. Howe and other dear friends and
relatives. Many loving congratulations
were extended to the veteran Mother in
Israel and tokens of remembrance given.
Dainty refreshments were served and after
sweet interchange of greetings, and so forth,
Sister Horne blessed the sisters present, in
a song or chant in the gift of tongues,
which was very gratifying and inspirational.
Sister Zina gave the interpretation in her
sweet, motherly way and a general time of
rejoicing was enjoyed by all. The EX-
PONENT offers its best congratulations to this
aged mother and sister, and desires that she
may live many years yet, or so long as
she can retain her faculties of mind and
activity of body, or while life is desirable.


UINTAH STAKE.
Minutes of the 24th conference of the ‘
Uintah Stake, held September 6, 1900,
President Sarah Pope presiding. Singing,
‘‘Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Counselor
A. K. Bartlett. Singing, ‘‘We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Roll called,
four Stake and seven ward officers present.
Minutes of the previous conference read and
approved.
President Sarah Pope was pleased to
again have the privilege of meeting with
the sisters in conference, and said we had
with us two sisters from headquarters and 
no doubt all would be pleased to hear from
them.
The different branches of the society were
reported as being in very good condition. 
Sister Mary E. Irvine said she was not
here for pleasure, but because she was
called. President Joseph Smith turned the


key in behalf of women, and how they had
advanced since that time. We should look
after ourselves and not spend so much
time bothering our neighbors. When we
go before our Father in heaven He will not
ask us what everyone else has been doing,
but what we ourselves have done. 
Sister Susan Grant said one of the im-
portant missions of the Relief Society was
to store up grain and then take care that it
is not destroyed. We should always re-
member our prayers, for if we forget the
Lord in the hour of prosperity, He will be
slow to hear us in the hour of trouble.
Counselor Mary Hall thought the sisters
ought to turn out to meetings and hear the
instructions the sisters had to give them
after coming over such a road as they had
to travel.
Sister AbigailOaks said we often perform
duties because it is a duty, and not for the
love we have for the work. Children are
precious gifts from God, and we should
strive to train them so they will be able to
enter into the presence of our Father in
heaven.
Conference adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing, ‘‘Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Benediction by
Brother E. J. Longhurst.
Afternoon session. Singing, “Prayer is
the soul’s sincere desire.” Prayer by
Brother James H. Glines. Singing, “The
spirit of God like a fire is burning.” The
general and local officers of the Relief
Society were sustained.
Counselor A. K. Bartlett said we should
not neglect our duty and leave it for some
one else to perform. There is a great mis-
sionary work to be performed in the midst
of Zion. therefore how necessary it is for
mothers to understand the Gospel.
Sister Susan Grant said we should make
home the loveliest place on earth, so the
children would rather be there than any-
where else. It requires a great deal of
patience to raise a family of children, there-
fore we should pray for the help of the
Lord.
Sister Mary E. Irvine said some people
would spend all their time in training fine
animals and neglect their children. We
should train our children in love and not
anger. We should never find fault with
the Priesthood, and especially before the
children, it makes a bad impression upon
them.
President Sarah Pope felt to thank the
sisters for their visit and hoped they would
come again.
Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Benediction
by Brother Thomas Bingham.
ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


54 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE PHILIPPINE SITUATION.
	The Filipino revolutionary government
and army no longer exist. In fact, there is
not a single regimental organization now to
be found. It is true armed bands of
Guerillas, more or less numerous, are har-
assing our troops and preventing the re-
turn of their own people to peaceful occu-
pations.
	Only a small proportion of the number of
natives have been in arms against us, the
rest are friendly and anxious for peace.
While they have suffered terribly it has not
been at our hands. In fact, the head men
of many of the towns captured by our
forces have voluntarily borne testimony

[Column 2]
to the good conduct of our soldiers. Even
such armed resistance as remains, although
it may be troublesome during the present
rainy season, will doubtless disappear on
the advent of the next dry season.
	Now the presidential election is over the
Filipinoes will no longer receive and dis-
tribute among the insurgents the anti-ad-
ministration speeches which are received by
the natives, who are strangers to the election
tactics in America. The distribution of
such material has led the natives to believe
that if Mr. Bryan should be elected the
American troops would be withdrawn, and
they would be left to govern themselves in
any way they might see fit. This, how-
ever, is a totally impossible condition. In
the first place, only a portion of Tagalos,
who number not over a million and a half,
have been fighting or working for indepen-
dence, the remainder of them, as well as a
majority of the other seven or eight millions
of the population, are favorable to us, and
the same is true of the foreign residents.
	The Filipinoes as a whole are certainly
not at present capable of establishing and
maintaining an independent government.
We have assumed obligations that must be
fulfilled. We have destroyed the governing
power of Spain which offered protection to
foreign property, foreign capital and foreign
inhabitants, and in some measure, at least,
had given the natives a semblance of civil
and municipal self-government. We are
bound in honor to substitute for it a govern-
ment which will give to foreigners a larger
measure of freedom and protection, and to
the Filipinoes not only more liberty, but a
more comprehensive and generous scheme
of self-government as well.
	General Otis was released from duty in
the Philippines at his own request. Ill
health was the cause of his leaving his post
where he had served so long and so efficient-
ly. General McArthur succeeded him on
May 1. General Otis approved a scheme of
municipal government before he left that
gives to the Philippines for the first time
the right of suffrage in the election of
officers and the establishing of town govern-
ment. Bishop Henry C. Potter has just re-
turned from Manila with the most un-
qualified praise of General Otis. He be-
lieves that we should stay there now, that
we could not get out honorably if we
would.
	The new Philippine commission has been
completed. Judge Taft, of Cincinnati, has
been elected chairman. Mr. Dean C.
Worchester, of the old commission, has
been retained and Judge Henry C. Ide, of
Vermont, General Luke E. Wright, of
Tennessee, and Professor Barnard Moses, of
California, have been appointed. The
commission is well constituted for organiz-
ing and establishing civil government in
the Philippines. They arrived in Manila
in June and announced that no attempt
would be made at present to supercede the
military executive. General McArthur is
competent to perform the duties of Governor
until the country is ready to receive a sys-
tem of civil administration. That Luzon,
at least, is not yet prepared for such a
change, is made clear by daily reports of
brigandage and armed resistance to
authority in very many parts of the
island. Organized insurrection is no longer
a fact, the archives of Aguinaldo's govern-
ment were seized by General Funston in
May. In June a far more important cap-
ture was made in the person of General

[Column 3]
Pis-del-Pilar, long regarded as the ablest
military leader in the Philippines.
	The work of our army in Luzon is de-
scribed by General Schwan in a letter
recently made public by the War Depart-
ment. The garrisons of the interior and
coast towns of Luzon are commanded by
young, energetic majors, who are leaving
nothing undone to perform with thorough-
ness the special task set them. This task
includes the suppression of guerilla bands,
and also open schools and establishing
municipal government. These things are
in course of accomplishment, the greatest
obstacle is the lack of confidence between the
soldiers and the inhabitants, which he be-
lieves will pass away when each class be-
comes better acquainted with the customs,
aims and standards of the other.
	The Philippine commission has chosen
Professor Fred N. Atkinson as superin-
tendent of instruction in the islands.  There
are 5,000 children in the city schools of
Manila, under the superintendency of
Professor George P. Anderson, a Yale
graduate. The teachers of these schools are
eighty-five natives, forty Panjards and
twenty-two Americans.
	On June 21 General McArthur promul-
gated an amnesty proclamation at Manila
under which many Filipino leaders have
accepted the authority of the United States.
General Pis del-Pilar, for example, is now
working harmoniously with General
McArthur, and has been traveling and per-
suading armed insurgents to accept the
amnesty terms.
			GRACE ANDERSON.


OBITUARY.

		       MARIA LOVE.

    It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of our dear sister and colaborer of the Second
Ward Relief Society of Nephi, Utah, Sister Maria
Love, who died October 7, 1900.
    Sister Love was born in Toronto, Canada, April
16, 1833. was a faithful Latter-day Saint, was
chosen a teacher in the Relief Society of Nephi at
its first organization in June, 1868, which office she
has filled true and faithfully up to the time of
her death.
   At a meeting one week before her death she
bore a strong testimony to the truth of the work
she was engaged in.

	One whom we love,
	One who had nothing but blessings for all,
	One who responded to every call,
	One who was ever so faithful and true,
	One who gave blessings to me and to you,
	One whom the angels will watch in her rest,
	One who is safe in the realms of the blest.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

   Whereas, Death has come into our midst and
taken from us our honored sister whom we all
loved, an earnest worker and teacher of our Relief
Society, be it
    Resolved, By the members of the society that we
tender to the bereaved family our sincere sympathy
and earnestly desire that God will comfort them in
their affliction.
    That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the
family, a copy be placed on record and one be
forwarded to the EXPONENT for publication.
					    E. R. UDALL, Pres.
					    MAGGIE McCUNE, Sec.
Second Ward Relief Society of Nephi.
				
			SARAH G. B. SNOW.

    Again the grim reaper, death, has been in our
midst to summon one of the pioneer women of
Utah to her reward, Sister Sarah Gledhill Broad-
bent Snow, departed this life October 2, 1900. at
the residence of her son-in-law, Bishop John Das-
trup. The cause of death was heart failure, super-
induced by stomach trouble.
    Deceased was the daughter of Edward and Petty
Gledhill and was born March 31, 1833, in Oldham,
Lancashire, England, She embraced the Gospel


about 1850, and married Edward Broadbent in
1853. They emigrated to Utah in 1855, shared
with the Saints the hardships of the “grasshopper
war” and other times of scarcity incident to early
life in the valley. In 1863, while living at Gunni-
son, Sanpete Co., her husband was drowned in the
Sevier river, leaving her with two small children,
one of whom soon followed the father. In 1865
she married Bernard Snow, by whom she had two
children, one of them dying in infancy. Her
career has been a varied one, she living in many
towns of the State, where she has won friends for
herself by her integrity to the principles of the
Gospel, She came to this ward in 1879, and has
since been connected with the labors of the ward.
She was president of the Primary Association, she
also held the office of treasurer of the Relief Soci-
ety, and head teacher of the same. In 1896 she
was chosen counselor to President A. M. Dastrup,
of the Relief Society, which position she held at
the time of her demise.
    She leaves two children, seven grandchildren,
one sister and three brothers, besides numerous
other relatives and friends to mourn her deaʇh.
				  	      PAULINE DASTRUP,
					      DORA MALMQUIST,
								Committee.
Sigurd Co.. Utah,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOOD WOMAN GONE.
She is not Dead but Sleepeth.
Caroline Hopkins Clark, wife of Bishop John
Clark, who departed this life October 30, 1900 at
the advanced age of 69 years, five months and 15
days, was born at Sutton, Warwickshire. England,
on the 16th day of May. 1831. She became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the spring of 1849, and came to Utah
in the fall of 1866, settling in Coalville. She was
the mother of seventeen children, nine of whom
survive her—seven sons and two daughters—and
grandmother to fifty-one grandchildren and seven
great grandchildren. On the 22nd day of August,
1887, she was chosen president of the Upton Relief
Society, which position she held up to her death.
She was the daughter of Samuel and Ann Hopkins,
to whom were born three sons and seven daugh-
ters. At an early age she left the home of her
childhood for the Gospel’s sake—she being the
only one in the family to join the Church—and
came to Utah. Deceased was just and kind to all,
a loving wife, kind and indulgent mother and be-
loved by all who knew her, She died in full faith
of the Gospel with the hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion. The funeral services over the remains were
held from the meeting house on Saturday, Novem-
ber 3, and it was the largest attended funeral ever
held in Upton. The room was beautifully decor-
ated with flowers. President W. W. Cluff was the
speaker at the services. Twenty-three vehicles
loaded with sorrowing friends followed the remains
to their last resting place.
Just a few minutes before her death Mrs. Clark
repeated the following verse:
	Affliction sore, long time I bore, 
	Physicians were in vain,
	Till death did ease and God did please
	To ease me from my pain.
		CARD OF THANKS.
In behalf of my family I wish to heartily thank
all those who so kindly assisted in any way during
the illness and death of my wife. I also wish to
thank J. W. Simister and the members of the choir
for the excellent music rendered at the funeral.
May all be rewarded for the good they did.
							JOHN CLARK.


[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)
    By this time some of the inmates began
to be jealous of me, and talk about me and
do all they could. They said that I was an
impostor and that they dared not pass my
door; that I was a witch, and so on. But I
did not mind it for I had passed through all
that sort when I had first joined the Church.
I knew that friends had been raised up to
me in time of need by my Heavenly Father
and I learned to trust him.
    I asked the nurse if she would prop me
up when the minister came again, for I felt
as if I would like to talk to him. I prayed
that I might be given strength to talk

[Column 2]
and words to say; for of myself I knew
that I could say nothing, for I was entirely
unlearned. He came. The nurse propped
me up as I had asked and then I told him
that I wished to talk with him about my
religion. He seemed pleased and was as
kind as he could have been if he had been
my father. He had the windows raised,
for it was very warm, and then told me he
would like to listen if I was strong enough.
    I spent more than an hour in telling him
what there was in the Bible. A great many
things he said he had never seen in his
Bible, and thought it was from some other
book. But I told him that if he would
bring his Bible I would mark it for him so
he could read it. I had a synopsis of the
Bible with me and I knew that I could find
anything that I wanted.
    When he came again he brought his
Bible, but the first thing to be mentioned
was the Book of Mormon. He said that
the Bible did not say anything about such a
book. I asked him what Isaiah meant when
he spoke of the Stick of Judah and the
Stick of Ephraim that were to be made one
Stick in the hands of the Lord? He said
he had never seen such a statement in the
Bible. We had a long talk and he, when
he left, left his beautiful morocco bound
Bible with me. I had lost the use of my
lower limbs, but not of my hands, so I pro-
cured a pencil and set to work marking
passages and by the time he returned I had
about fifty marked for him. When he
came I handed it to him. As many as
thirty of the inmates at a time had come
and listened to our talks. I used to pray
that my memory might be strengthened
and that I might have wisdom that what-
ever I should say would be correct. On
his next visit, after inquiring about my
condition, he said: “My dear young girl, I
have lived to see the words of our blessed
Lord fulfilled in you, for he said, ‘These
things shall be hid from the wise and prudent
and be revealed even unto babes.’ I was
brought up and trained in college to be a
minister of the Gospel, but I never in all
my studies knew such words were in the
Bible; but I must confess that what you
have said is true.”
    One young lady made a remark thinking
to take me off what I was saying, but the
minister turned to her and told her I was
abundantly able to answer all questions,
and that if she could not be quiet to leave
the room. She did not bother me any more.
He was a constant visitor as long as I re-
mained there and his last words to me were
“God bless and spare your life. The doc-
tor has given me some hopes today.”
    A few nights before I left the hospital
two bright lights appeared at my window,
and I heard these words distinctly, ‘‘Arise
and depart from here; this place is polluted
and you will be destroyed, Joseph and
Hyrutn Smith.”
I told the night nurse and she said she
guessed it was an angel, for I had often
told her that angels did come to the earth
these days. How I prayed that the doctor
would send me home, for I feared to stay
there. When the doctor made his next
visit he told me that I would have to
undergo an operation, I told him that I would
never submit to that. To that he said,
“you may then go home, we can do no
more for you.” He looked at me and said,
“What do you want to live for? The fear
of death, or the love of the world ?”
My answer was the love of the world.

[Column 3]
He said that if I lived I would never be
any good to myself or to any one else.
Many of my friends came to see me and I
finally wrote a letter to my friends to come
and take me home. So after nine weary
weeks of torture and suffering I was given
a paper by the doctor stating that I was in-
curable. I was taken home and was given
a large supply of medicine. My mother
was told to report my condition occasionally.
    At the end of two weeks my mother went
to see the doctor, who asked if that poor
girl were still alive. He gave her some
more medicine for me. A few days after
that some of my old Methodist friends called
to see me, and while they were there I had
to take some of my medicine. One of them
asked me if I knew what it was I was taking.
I said that I did not, and then he told me
it was opium. I looked astonished at him,
for I had been told that he took a great deal
of that poison, and a more haggard and
sickly looking man it would be hard to find.
I thought that if I could not live without
taking that drug it was better for me to die.
I prayed earnestly that if my living de-
pended upon my taking that drug which I
saw made such ghastly looking sights, that
I might die.
    As soon as my strength permitted, I took
all of the medicine that I had and went out-
side and buried it and there covenanted with
the Lord that if He would spare my life that
I might be useful in the kingdom, I would
never take doctor’s medicine again.
    I was restored to health, and though-
fifty-five years have passed and I have had
much sickness to go through, I have never
taken any of their medicine to speak of.
    After I was restored, my companion in
the Church, Sister Sarah Martin, and I
ussd to distribute tracts for the mission-
aries through two different villages; we
made a round each Sunday evening. We
had three miles to the one place and two to
the other, but we never missed going sum-
mer or winter for years. Sometimes the
people would listen to what we had to say
and sometimes they would not; some would
tell us that they had burned those we left
last and they did not want any more: others
would shut the door in our faces, but
wherever the people would listen to us we
told them what the Lord wanted of them to
the best of our ability, and we had the
pleasure of seeing some of the fruits of our
labors.
    One night as I was walking with the
president of the Bedfordshire mission our
conversation was turned to the young man
with whom I had been keeping company.
I told the president that I would never
marry him in this world, for he was too
narrow-minded, I could never be happy
with him. The president told me that
Brother Underwood loved me as much as a
man could love a woman. “But,” said he,
“the half of a man you could love is better
than the whole of one you could not love.”
    This surprised me, and I asked him if he
meant by that that men had more than one
wife in these days.
    His reply was, “You must have caught
the spirit of it!”
    “Well,” I told him, “the Bible speaks of
men having more than one wife.”
    His only answer to this was that we have
the same Gospel that the ancients had.
    I could plainly see that if plural marriage
was a principle of the Gospel then, it must
of necessity be so now. That was the first
time I had heard it hinted at, that polygamy
was being practised in the Church, I learned


[Column 1]
little by little until I was fully convinced
that it was true. This was in 1846. My
sister was in Nauvoo at this time and when
I wrote to her I asked her if the men there
had more than one wife. She said they did
some of them, but it was not publicly
known to the world. My companion, Sarah
Martin, and I used to talk about it when
we were together, and read about it in the
Bible until we were fully satisfied about it.
We never spoke of it to any of our friends,
and we made a vow that if ever we did
marry we would marry the same man.
Time rolled on, but we never swerved from
our promise. We said that we would not
marry until we came to where the Saints
were. The young man with whom I had
kept company left his home and went to
London, but I had long since decided that
we two should never wed. At this time
that principle was not known among the
people there, but we knew of it, and had
set our minds on what should be our lot.
We had several chances to marry, but the
conditions were not what we wanted, so we
refused. 
	In the early spring of 1850, Brother
Christopher Layton returned from Cali-
fornia, where he had gone as a member of
the Mormon Batalion. We had known him
before he went to America. He had left
England in January, 1843, for Nauvoo, and
while there his wife had died leaving a little
girl one year old; this my sister kept for
him.
	One night there was an Elder at our
place who had just returned from America,
and we were very anxious that the people
should hear him, so we invited our neigh-
bors in. But instead of their coming with
a pure motive, they called in all of the
roughest element for miles around and
came to do mischief. As the Elder was
talking they began throwing stones at the
house. The house being made of concrete,
the plaster was soon knocked off and the
windows broken. They had formed two
lines along the path, thinking to catch the
Elder and some of the Saints and drag them
to the river and throw them into it. But
they were defeated, for we led them around
another way. They climbed over our live
fence and made their escape while the mob
waited.
	This was very hard on my father, for he
was not a Mormon and it worried him. The
mob continued throwing stones for some
time. Finally my father went out and
told them that the Elder was far away. This
he did for two reasons: one for the safety of
his property, and the other was to find out
who some of the men were. This he did.
The next day the landlord came and told
father that he would have to leave that
home. “For,” said he, “you see what
your wife and daughter have brought you
into.” I told father that the Lord would
help us to get another house. Before that
day was past he had secured another and
the following day we moved. The land-
lord saw what he had done, and sent word
that he was sorry for what he had done in
his anger. Within a year my father and

[Column 2]
mother moved back to the old home in
which I had lived all of my days so far.
	Soon after the return of Brother Layton
his sister sent for my mother and me to
come over, as he wanted to see us. We
were pleased to see him, as he had seen my
sister not long before. He told us that he
was going to return to Utah in the fall and
that he would be pleased to take me with
him. This suited me very well. The next
day he came over to our house and asked
my mother if she would give me to him for
his wife. This she refused, as she said she
did not believe in hasty marriages. He
asked me what I thought about it, and I
told him that my mother had always wished
me well, and that I would not go against
her wishes. He then told me that he should
go over to see Sarah Martin. I told him
that she would be glad to see him, as we
had been brought up close neighbors. He
asked her to be his wife and she consented.
She was about four years my senior. He
told us then that the Latter-day Saints be-
lieved in having more than one wife. We
told him that we knew that and had
understood it for a long time. He asked us
if we would be willing  to live together when
we should arrive in Utah. We told him
then that we had made that agreement long
since, and that we had no desire to break it.
	I did not tell my parents what I intended
to do, neither did Sarah Martin; but it was
understood between the three of us.
		(To be continued.)


56
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67, 69, 71 Main St. Salt Lake City. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE andsolicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money. TRY US.


The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the .....
OREGON SHORT LINE
RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . , . .

See that your tickets read via the
"SHORT LINE"
And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. ECCLES,
Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.
D E. BURLEY,
G. P. & T. A


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank n Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.

LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier

Nos.1-3-5, Main Street.

'


A HOUSEHOLD OF WOMEN.

To describe a household of women I once
knew would be comical to the last degree,
if not so provokingly pitiful. There were
five rich widows (one of these women was
said to be worth ten millions) all belong-
ing to the same family, living in a hand-
some house in a fashionable part of New
York, paying heavy taxes without a word
to say in regard to municipal government;
with their maids and servants they num-
bered just one dozen women.
They had one colored man, with a head
the size of an apple, one eye and lame in one
leg. On the first Tuesday of every Novem-
ber, this gentleman, a kind of majordomo to
the establishment, represented these twelve
women annually at the polls, five of them
highly educated, the other seven able to
read and write, any one of them competent
to throw the little majordomo over the
wall; yet he was the only full-fledged citizen
of the Republic in this household. The
twelve women had not a word to say in re-
gard to the laws or lawmakers under which
they lived. They were practically slaves
according to what Benjamin Franklin once
said: “If a man’s property can be taken
from him without his consent he is a slave.
if he has no voice in the government under
which he lives, he is a slave.”
The “Fathers” said, “No just govern-
ment can be formed without the consent of
the governed.”
“Taxation without representation is
tyranny.”


Have these lofty sentiments any appli-
cation to one half of the people of this Re-
public, or are they mere glittering gener-
alities for orators in their fourth of July
orations or on the eve of their annual elec-
tions? We pause for a reply.
Women are constantly asked as to their
choice in the pending election. As there is
no mention of them on either the Republican
or Democratic platform as neither Mr.
McKinley nor Mr. Bryan has had the
courtesy to mention them in their prouncia-
mentoes, why should they feel the slightest
interest in either party? Their political
status will remain the same in the success of
either.
The questions of tariff, gold basis,im-
perialism, trusts, sink into utter insignifi-
cance compared with the emancipation of
forty millions of women, many of them
highly educated, the most virtuous and
law-abiding citizens of the Republic.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 29
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1900.
No. 14


CONTENTS.
Her Mother’s Christmas Gift................Amelia	57
Bazar Notes......................................................	58
Century’s Greeting to Aid Red Cross...............	59
The National Bazar...........................................	59
Story of One Christmas......................Aunt Em	70
Domestic Science Department....Susa Y. Gates	63
R. S. Annual Report..........................................	64
Lady Somerset’s Colony...................................	64
EDITORIAL—Marvelous Advancement.........	60
	Half A Century..........................................	60
	A Birthday Anniversary............................	61
Christmas Reveries......................Ellis R.Shipp	57
	A Christmas Letter...................Jane Thorn	59


CHRISTMAS REVERIES. 
1900.

The tremulous pulse of the universe
Throbs with "peace and good will to man," 
The millionaire opens his swollen purse,
Bestowing with bounteous hand,
While "Aids” and "Charities” swarm about,
In this noble work for the poor,
And we hear the merry childrens’ shout,
As they bound from the schoolhouse door, 
Off to their homes for a week of rest,
No studies nor books to annoy—
Entering sports with vigorous zest,
Think only of holiday joy.

The rich and the poor alike now plan
For their childrens greatest delight,
Their bank account or wages scan
While weary mothers work at night—
That none may be found that joyous morn
Without a stocking more than filled;
The table wel spread, the hearth made warm,
For the hungered, tired and chilled.
Many mysterious parcels hid
With warnings and shaking of head,
Of that trunk none must open the lid;
Each child must go early to bed.

How many dainty stitches enwrought
On trifles, the best one can give—
Interwoven with purest, most loving thought 
Which make the inanimate live,
Breathe to the heart more eloquent words
Than pen or tongue ere could express!
Music that’s sweeter than songs of birds,
Benedictions ever to bless—
Making us feel the greatest and best
Of all of God’s mercies to earth
Is Friendship and Love! frankly expressed,
How holy and grand are their worth!

While the tremulous pulse of the universe
Is throbbing with "peace and good will,”
Thus my soul is replete with reveries sweet,
Brightest hopes my being to thrill;
That the waning days of this century
May carry all doubt from the world;
That love among men forever may reign,
With the banner of peace unfurled,
The Millennial year be ushered in, 
That thousand years of love and peace,
When earth made clean, and free from mortal sin,
And souls from pain have sweet release. 
ELLIS R. SHIPP.


HER MOTHER'S CHRISTMAS GIFT. 
The room was bright with two electric
giobes, and at one end an open stove gave
out more light, warmth and cheer. The
furniture was not elegant, rather to the con-
trary, it was simple and inexpensive; but
the painted floor was covered with a large
rug evidently an old Smyrna with its bril-
liantly shaded colors; the chairs were rockers
and a low, easy couch rested between two
windows, piled with soft, downy cushions.
There were curtains, simple dotted lace
ones, and a low bookcase on two sides of
the room. Two pictures, art copies of
Turner, gave an air of exquisite refinement
to the simple room.
The lady who sat reading before the fire
was fitted to her surroundings; or rather,
her surroundings seemed a fitting frame for
the delicate, high-bred beauty which, now,
more than ever, surrounded her like a halo.
She was small and slender, with thin,
nervous hands on which sparkled several
rings; a face whose every line bespoke char-
acter and nobility, from the broad, low
brow, to the firm, yet delicate chin. The
gray hair waved away from the brow was
dressed carelessly yet artistically, low in the
neck. Her silken robe was neglige
in its cut, and fell away from the tiny
slippered feet.
The door of the room was opened quickly,
but quietly, and a sweet voice asked, “May
come in, auntie ?”
“Certainly you may, my dear. Close the
door on Jack Frost and draw up your stool
and come here by the fire.”
The young girl who entered was lovely
with youth, vivacity and all the details of
comeliness. Her bright blue eyes and pink
cheeks were not coarsely pretty, but the
coloring was as delicate as the petals of a
tea rose and the blue of the heavens be-
tween the stars.
She drew her ottoman close by the elder
lady’s chair, and after a moments silence she
said, wistfully:
“Auntie, I am very unhappy about my
mamma.”
“Why, Bessie, what’s the matter with the
lady mother ? Has she been taken suddenly
ill, or is she fretting over gifts for the
coming holidays, or what is the trouble?”
“There is nothing of that kind, auntie,
mamma is just the same as usual and
everything is all right at home. It is dnly
I—that is—well, I’ll, tell you, auntie,
all about it.”
“That’s a good girl; I knew there was
something on your mind lately, Pussy, and 
I have been waiting very patiently for you
to tell me what it was.”
“That’s just it, auntie, I don’t want to
tell you; that is, I have resolved--and re-
solved—not to tell you-but to tell
mamma—and, oh—I can’t!”
The last broken words brought a little
gush of tears and the girl leaned her head
on the friendly knee beside her and wept
silently, while the slender hands stroked the
pale gold hair and the soft voice comforted
and soothed the troubled girl.
“Dear me, Bessie, this looks almost seri-
ous. I am about to be alarmed. What
has happened between my pet and her dear
mother ? Come, dry thy bright eyes and
stop the little quiver in thy voice, and tell
me all about it from first to last.”
“Oh, auntie, its so easy to tell you things
and its so hard to tell my own mother, and
that’s the very whole of the trouble.”
The elder lady took the young face be-
tween her hands and looked a moment into
the deep blue eyes.
“Now, wait a moment, Bess, I hardly
understand. You must explain a little.”
“The girl put her own hands on the
slender ones pressed on her cheeks, and said:
“Dear auntie, I have been troubled for so
long because I feel that my own mother and
are not so near and dear as we ought to
be, as you and I are!”
“Oh!” softly said the elder lady, releas-
ing the girl from her clasp.
Bessie settled herself so that she could
look into the fire, and drawing the arm of
her companion about her neck, she went on,
sure of the loving interest of her listener.
“You see, auntie, I am not naturally very
talkative; I think I am very reserved. And
mamma is like that, too. Perhaps I should
never tell any one my secrets, if you had not
won my love and confidence years ago. I
can’t tell why it is, (but the patient listener
knew why) that I can come to you and open
my whole heart to you. I haven’t thought
much about these things till I have read
and heard so much lately in our meetings
about girls confiding in their mothers. I
can fancy what a lovely thing it would be
for mother and me to be like you and I are,
but I don’t know how to do it. Mamma
loves me, of course I know that, and we
can talk about our new clothes and going
to the theatre and our shopping, and all
that; but when I have tried once or twice
lately to speak to her about other things—
well—about my beaus, you know, or things
like that—I can’t get past the first word,
and mamma never helps me a bit; she just
acts more embarrassed and colder than I do.
Now its so different with you, and I can’t
tell why!”
The elder woman felt the tears filling her
eyes, and there was a suspicious ache in her
throat, but she said quietly:
“Yes, Bessie, I can understand all you
say. I have often told you to confide in
your mother."
“I know you have, auntie,” answered
the girl, eagerly, “and I am anxious to do
it; but cau one help one’s temperament?
And both mamma’s and mine are against it.
I am sure I don’t know what to do.” 
“Bessie dear, in my girlhood days I was
a quiet, reserved and silent child; I spent the
whole time at books and music. I had little
human companionship, for my own mother
was a reserved and quiet woman. I never
remember of sitting on her lap, or of any
caress, but a very occasional kiss, in my
life. I was full of romance and strong im-
pulse, and my circumstances and disposition
led my maiden feet to the brink of many
a precipice but I never lost my footing,
thank God for that!”
The girl reached up her hand and drew
the other hands down to her lips while she
kissed them over and over.
“I learned many lessons through my
own sufferings and trials. And chiefest of
all has been the fact that all humankind
longs and seeks for sympathy and com-
panionship. He who supplies that need to
the starving heart is the one who gains
uppermost influence and power over that
heart. And so I have studied how to win
the love and confidence of all creatures,
especially the young. And, Bessie, of all
my dear young friends, you come nearest to
being like my own child.”


[Column 1]
	Bessie stroked the slender hands about
her neck, and pressed them to her glowing
cheeks.
	“I have had no children, dear, you know
that; but you will never know what that
fact means to a woman’s desolate heart yet
the sweet love of Christ and the dear reli-
gion we both love so well has filled the ach-
ing void, and God has answered my prayer
in some measure and given me the love and
tender confidence of my young friends.
Now, dear, I am deeply touched by your
distress about your mother. I can see how
it has all come about; but for her sake, for
your own, and that you may not be yourself
such a mother to your children, you must
break the wall of reserve and find entrance
uto your mother’s heart of hearts, while
you open the deepest recesses of yours to
her.”
	“You always understand, auntie, and know
just what to say, don’t you?”
	The tender, aged lips trembled with
emotion, and the lady sighed as she said:
	“If so, God teaches me, dear.”
	The two sat silent a long while, and the
coals dropped down in the open grate, and
grew gray in their ashen covering.
	At last the lady said:
	“Bessie, what are you going to give
your mother for a Christmas gift?”
	“I don’t know, auntie; I had not thought
much about it. I dare say I shall buy her
something, for I am in school, you know,
and can’t do fancy work. Anyway, I hate
fancywork. I would rather make a whole
dress than to work a Batteuburg handker-
chief.”
	“Well, dear, there are so many good and
profitable things to do, tnat no one need
spend their time in distasteful employment.
I have a little suggestion which might be
made into a gift for the dear mother, and at
the same time accomplish the dearest wish
of your heart.”
	“What is it, auntie? I am all expectancy
You always have such delightful sugges-
tions.”
	The two sat talking and discussing for an
hour, and then Bess sprang up with shining
eyes and a happy smile on her lips as she
said:
	“All right, auntie, I think I can get it
done nicely by working in all my spare
hours. Goodby, you dear, sweet, precious
auntie, I shall never forget you for this.”
	And as the girl closed the door the lady
arose and watched the graceful form flit
down between the rows of lilacs and rose
trees, and out at the gate into the snowy
road beyond.
	“I cannot be selfish and keep her love all
to myself; it belongs to her mother, for God
so ordained it. Ah, thank Him, that
love is of Himself a part, in giving we are
not impoverished, and in taking away we
are not deprived!”
			*	*	*
	The Christmas morning was early filled
with merry shouts of laughter and gay ex-
changes of gift and greeting in Bessie’s
home.
	As Bessie’s mother looked at the many
and elaborate presents spread out on the
table for her, she gazed with pleased eyes at
a small box delicately tied with blue ribbon
and marked,
		From Bessie to Mother.
	The mother opened all the rest first, and
finally as she reached for Bessie’s parcel,
the girl herself could not bear it, and she

[Column 2]
flew out of the room on some trivial excuse.
	But the mother was so pleasantly engaged
in discovering all her gift treasures that she
did not notice the exit of her daughter.
	As she opened the pretty box, she saw
within a very simple, dainty daily calendar,
a sheet for each of the three hundred and
sixty-five days, fastened to a small, wooden
frame, each one pasted at the top, as on a
tab. On the top sheet was inscribed, in
bold letters, Jan. 1st, 1900, and beneath it
was written, in Bessie’s own beautiful pen-
manship:
Dearest Mother:
	I have written out the very innermost thoughts of
my heart on these leaves which you will tear off
day by day. And that they will reach to the depths,
of your own pure, loving soul is the hope of your
							BESSIE.
	The mother drew away the box from the
curious eyes of her little son, who stood by
her, and who asked curiously, “What are
oo tying about, mama?”
	But she gave him a kiss for reply, and
closed up her precious gift, as if it were too
sacred for the eyes of any one save herself.
	She turned aside in a window recess and
opening again her box,’ she lifted up the
second leaf, and--under the date she read:
	Mother dear, I have your love and you have
mine! but I want your confidence, and I want to
give you mine.
							BESSIE.
On another leaf she read:
	How I have longed to sit at your feet and have
you stroke my hair while I tell you all my secrets,
but I don’t know how to begin. Won’t you help
me?
	She had read enough to know that her
young daughter had given her the most
precious gift ever given by child to parent—
the gift of her heart’s confidence! And she
put the box up to her lips and kissed it
again and again. Oh, it was what she,
too, had been longing for these many years.
And she knew not how to gain it!
	As Bessie came into the room, the mother
held out her arms and the girl ran into that
loving embrace, while their silent tears
mingled as they kissed each other fondly.
	“Oo make mama ty, Bessie,” said the
baby-boy. “Tome away.”
	But the mother picked him up and kissed
him fervently, while she whispered to
Bessie, “You have made me so happy,
Bessie. So happy!”
	And the little brother asked wonderingly,
“Did she dive oo a Christmas dift, mama?
What was it, mama?”
	And the mother stroked the girl’s sunny
hair almost for the first time in her life, as
she replied:
	“Why, baby dear, Bessie has given me
her heart for my Christmas present.”
	In the twilight of that evening two ladies
came up the path bordered by lilacs and
rosetrees, and as they were ushered into the
dainty sitting room where sat the elderly
lady, a soft, mellow voice, now full of happy
tears, cried out,
	“Oh, auntie! mamma and I have both
come tonight to talk it all over with you,
you dear, sweet auntie. And mamma says
you are not to lose me, auntie, but you are
to take us both into your heart and let us
both be your dear confidents.”
	There were no more words for a little
season as the grey-haired lady arose and
clasped the hands offered to her and put up
her own trembling lips for a kiss from each.
	Then she drew up two low ottomans and

[Column 3]
the others sat down at her feet, and while
the delicate aged hands caressed the dark
hair and the golden, Bessie said softly:
	“Isn’t this a heavenly Christmas?”
	And the hostess replied reverently:
	“Aye, for it is sanctified by Love
Divine!”
					AMELIA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BAZAR NOTES.
	MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE recited “The
Battle Hymn of the Republic” one evening
at the Suffrage Bazar, and was received
with much enthusiasm.
	MISS JEANIE GORDON, of New Orleans,
had for sale at the National Suffrage Bazar 
which has just closed some of the old time
“open-kettle” molasses, now choice and
rare, as there are only a few places where it
is still made.
	MISS GAIL LAUGHLIN, who is investigat-
ing the domestic service question for the
U. S. government, acted as a sort of aid-de-
camp to Mrs. Catt during the suffrage Bazar,
and was flying about and doing as much
work herself as a full score of domestic
servants.
	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY, during the
Suffrage Bazar in New York, was the guest
of her cousin, Mrs. S. L. Lapham. The
change of air and scene did her good and
her health improved every day during her
stay. She made several visits to the Bazar
and her entrance was always hailed with
applause. “Is Miss Anthony here this
morning?” one woman asked. “Oh, yes,”
answered another, “I know she is here, for
I heard the people clapping a little whilet
ago.”
	MISTRESS MARGARET BRENT was one of
the handsomest of the many beautiful
dolls at the Suffrage Bazar, and was a
source of especial pride to the Southern
women present. She was the gift of Mrs.
J. William Funk, president of the Balti-
more Equal Suffrage Association, and was
the chief ornament of the Maryland booth.
She was dressed as a stately colonial dame
in purple satin and ermine, with a necklace
of pearls, and had her dark eyes fixed on
the spectator, and one hand stretched out as
if in appeal. She represented Mistress
Margaret Brent of Maryland, Lord Balti-
more’s kinswoman and executrix, who was
the first woman in America to ask for the
ballot. She appealed to the Colonial
Assembly for a vote in 1647, more than 200
years before the first woman’s rights con-
vention was held in the North. The
Maryland women at the Suffrage Bazar told
her story with great pride.

	MISS EUGENIE WASHINGTON, a great
grandniece of George Washington, whose
death has been announced, was born in
Jefferson County, now West Virginia, her
father being William Temple Washington,
grandson of Colonel Samuel Washington,
brother of President Washington. She was
a descendent also of Count de Flechie, a
relative of Lafayette, who was a captain in
the Continental Army. Miss Washington
was appointed to a clerkship in the Patent
Office in 1876, and was subsequently trans-
ferred to the Post Office Department whe e
she held the place until her death. She was
one of the founders of the Daughters of the
American Revolution, was for many years
registrar-general of the society and was one
of its honorary vice-presidents-general.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A CHRISTMAS LETTER.
		JANE THORN.

“Now, what are you writing, my Anna?”
	“I’m writing a letter, you see,
To give Mr, Santa a message
	About gifts he’ll bring unto me.
I’m tired of writing, dear grandma,
	And want to go out now and play.
So please read and seal up my letter,
	And post it right off today.”

Away flew the darling, and left me
	To wonder what message she’d send—
What gifts of all others she wanted,
	Dolls, books or money to spend?
Her mother peeped over my shoulder, 
	And read the queer writing with me,
Sure, never was sent such a letter
	On land or from over the sea.

‘Dear Santa,” it read, “please send me
	Some white satin and velvet clothes, 
With a train, and a ring and breastpin,
	And glasses to pinch on my nose,
Some pretty white hair like my grandma’s,
	In a switch to take off at night,
And teeth to take out in a tumbler,
	And earrings that sparkle bright.

I don’t mind a bustle and corset,
	Though grandma says they are bad,
But just send the prettiest bracelet
	That cannot make any one sad.
That’s all for this Christmas, dear Santa.”
	The letter was ended here.
The mother and I looked at each other,
	And into her eyes crept a tear.

“What weeds have we sown in the garden,
	Of this innocent baby’s heart?
With our frills, our trains and our jewels,
	We each must shoulder our part.
Instead of our virtues she copies
	Our vices and follies, you see;
This letter has come like a warning
	From God unto you and to me.”

“The mind of a child is a garden,
	In which God planted good seed,
But the weeds of the world soon choke them
	’Tis the care of a mother they need,
But mother forgets in the worry
	Of providing the clothes and food,
That something must grow in that garden,
	And evil grows faster than good.

“If we think and talk altogether
	Of the world, its joys and its cares,
What wonder our gardens grow nothing,
	Save thistles and thorns, and the tares.
Good seed grows only by culture,
	The weeds spring up in a night!
We two have neglected our duty,
	And evil to us has seemed right.

“Come, let us accept of our lesson,
	Put away from us vanities’ snares,
And into our lives crowd more closely, 
	Good thoughts, good deeds and good prayers.
Remember that teaching means talking,
	And setting examples true,
We must make our own lives the better.
	Then her’s will be beautiful, too.

“This Christmas must bring to us, daughter,
	The gift of a purer heart,
The desire to serve the Master
	By choosing a meeker part.
And thus will our Anna be blessed,
	And thus will her odd letter prove,
A message from Heaven to us-ward,
	Filled full with forgiving Love.


[Column 1]
CENTURY’S GREETING TO AID RED
CROSS.
	The parting of the centuries on the night
of the 31st of the coming December will
have a celebration of world-wide import
and interest in the unique watch meetings
to be held in this country under the auspices
of the American National Red Cross.
	The specially organized Twentieth Cen-
tury Department of the Red Cross is now
preparing to hold watch meetings, as far as
practicable, in every city, town and village
of the United States. Mammoth meetings
are already arranged for in New York and

[Column 2]
other leading cities, in Madison Square
Garden and other great auditoriums, to see
the old century out and the new century in.
At Madison Square Garden Sousa’s famous
band will furnish the music and a grand
chorus of one thousand voices will be heard
in song until midnight, interspersed with
speeches and greetings.
	These “Greetings” will be an unique and
epochal feature. Not only the rulers of the
prominent nations of the world, but the
leading celebrities of every land—Tolstoi,
Joseph Chamberlain, Dreyfus, Zola, Kruger,
Sir Edwin Arnold, Hall Caine, Anthony
Hope, Lord Roberts and more than fifty
others, making a total of about one hundred,
have written special messages for the Red
Cross, on the progress of the 19th Century
and the promise of the 20th Century.
	Such a grouping of crystalized thought
from the master minds of all the earth on a
subject of such universal interest was never
before made. The contributions pledged to
the service of the American Red Cross
branch will form a most inspiring and im-
pressive memorial. So important and sig.
nificant are these “Greetings” that the
originals are to be preserved for the nation
in the Congressional Library at Washington.
	At every Red Cross watch meeting in
the city or village throughout the land there
will be opened simultaneously a sealed
packet containing these “Greetings” from
the Old World to the New on the close of a
century so unprecedented in achievements
and the coming of another so transcendent
in promise.
	In the noble memorial address by Miss
Barton to Congress some twelve years ago,
she recalled the fact that probably no sign
or figure in the secular world is sacred to so
many eyes as the Red Cross of Geneva. It
is the insignia of a humanity that knows no
foe. In the fiercest conflict of arms it passes
unchallenged on its mission of mercy. Its
international organization is founded on the
welcome and authorization of the united
governments of the civilized world. Its
chief directors abroad are men of the fore-
most standing, and the crowned heads of
Europe are its patrons. It is eminently
natural and fitting that it should be the
medium for bearing messages of cheer and
fraternity that will inspire and delight all
America in these great watch meetings.
	The object of these meetings is to raise
funds for the American National Red Cross,
and to signalize the dawning of another
century by giving world-wide prominence
to that fraternity between nations which
tends to ameliorate the horrors of war.
	The Red Cross in other countries has
been endowed by various means, but in the
United States it has worked from one
national emergency to another without an
endowment or sustaining fund, and it is
believed that, at the dawning of a new
century, the people of the United States
will gladly gather together in mass meetings
to watch the old century out and the new
century in, and at the same time to aid in
the national and international work which
has for its watchword “Humanity.”
	The American National Red Cross has
for the first time consented to give the pub-
lic an opportunity to contribute to a per-
manent sustaining fund for this broadest of
charities.
	It is not necessary to enlarge to American
readers on the history and work of Miss
Clara Barton and the American National
Red Cross, nor as to what she and the

[Column 3]
Society have done for the soldiers of the
Regular and Volunteer armies of this and
other countries. With the provision of such
a fund as is proposed, the occurrence of any
great calamity, such as recently visited the
city of Galveston, would find it in a position
to offer that most valuable of assistance—
first relief.
	It is expected that some adequate pro-
vision may be made for such a sustaining
fund through the agency of the watch
meetings and the subscriptions for the
sealed packet of “Greetings” which will be
delivered to every meeting in the country at
a very moderate charge.


THE NATIONAL BAZAR.
THE PIONEER’S RECEPTION.
	Magnificent weather greeted the first day
of the Bazar, and there was a great crowd
at the reception to the pioneers on the open-
ing night Of the pioneers invited, Mrs.
Stanton, Mrs. Howe and Mrs. Livermore
could not be present, but Miss Anthony,
Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Mrs.
Isabella Beecher Hooker, Mrs. Anna C.
Field and Mrs. Charlotte F. Wilbur were in
line. It was a pleasure to see that row of
white-haired ladies, most of them over
eighty, yet all of them fine looking, several
of them eminently handsome. It was a
work of time and difficulty to get near them
so great was the crush of the younger people
who pressed up to shake hands and congrat-
late them. The pretty girls who acted as
ushers finally linked hands and formed a
cordon, so as to keep off the crowd and make
the people pass in single file.
	Miss Anthony was, of course, the chief
attraction. Though still frail from the
illness brought on by her magnanimous and
successful effort to raise the sum needed to
secure the admission of girls to the Univer-
sity of Rochester, she looked very nice in
the point lace given her by the women of
the District of Columbia seventeen years
ago, and the historic ruby velvet gown that
has served as her “best dress” for the last
quarter of a century. Its good state of
preservation is her pride and a testi-
mony to her economic virtues. Except for
the remodelling of the sleeves, it has con-
ceded nothing to the changing fashions. The
enormous puffs in vogue when it was first
made have been taken off and cleverly
transformed into bags and needle cases,
which find a ready sale at the Susan B.
Anthony Booth.—Ex.


MRS. RUSSELL SAGE made several visits
to the Suffrage Bazar, and was a large buyer.
	ARISTOTLE is credited with being the first
European to discover the true origin of the
material from which was woven the precious
fabrics which for over a thousand years the
Orient alone had supplied to the West. In
his time the fabric known to use as chiffon
was first made by the Roman ladies, who
obtained their working material by unravel-
ing raw silk imported from Persia. The
actual introduction of silk culture into
Europe occurred much later, in the sixth
century, A. D., when two Nestorian Christ-
ians, risking death, which was the penalty
for such export, succeeded in bringing silk-
worm eggs from China at the instigation of
the Emperor Justinian.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH DECEMBER 15, 1900.


[Column 1]
MARVELOUS ADVANCEMENT.
	Assuredly the world is entering upon an
era of great importance in its history in the
opening of the new century, and if figures
are significant the closing of another
thousand years must cut some sort of
figure.
	Men talk of looking backward and re-
counting the advance made in all directions
during this century, but what of the nine
centuries since the year ten hundred?
What condition was the world in then? How
far had civilization progressed? What did
the Eastern hemisphere know of the West-
ern? Only tradition and very little of that.
	Since that time to consider the vastness
of the work of the world makes ones head
swim. The discovering of a continent and
of islands almost innumerable, large and
small. The discoveries not only of earth
but the heavenly bodies.
	To comprehend in part this subject one
must take in the universe, the sun, moon
and stars and some of the laws by which
they are controlled, and the order in which
they move, and their relative position to
each other and to the planet we inhabit.
The knowledge of elemental forces existing
that were unknown to men have been
brought to light by science and its applied
instrumentalities. Many things can now
be measured and weighed that were once
considered wholly exempt or outside of any
control.
	In fact, science seems to have transformed
the universe and instead of unknown space,
that to us was lost, empty or void, there is
ever the rush and bustle of activity, or an
eternal stream of life and power and action
which penetrates the realms of space and
the entire world. And we call all this pro-
gress and man’s invention and applied
science to the forces already existing, but of
which man had no practical knowledge
heretofore.
	In many, perhaps most respects, the
greatest strides in higher civilization have
been made in this Nineteenth century. In
the fine arts, literature, music and painting,
undoubtedly, unless one goes back to
ancient Greece, of which we have very little
except tradition.
	To be sure, we speak of the beginning of
the finer culture in the Elizabethan period,
but it is the boast of the age in which we
live, and an accepted fact, that the greatest
men and most profound thinkers and largest
culture and attainments have been of this

[Column 2]
latest century. The fact remains, however,
without any fear of contradiction, that
Shakespeare is without a peer in this or any
other age, and, therefore, he must be an
exception.
	No doubt there are those who would
differ with the writer, but nevertheless this
has been a century of learning, of refinement
and culture. Great things have been
undertaken, and many of them accomplished
and the world looks on and wonders at the
advancement in all the lines of thought and
phases of life.
	What may be expected in the twentieth
century from the indications of the present
lookout, who can or dare determine? Only
a prophet or seer dare venture a prediction.
	The changes that have taken place in
atmospheric conditions prove that not only
men’s environments are subject to the
changes that occur through discoveries and
inventions, but that there are many differ-
ences from year to year which man is
powerless to control.
	Those who are permitted to live far into
the twentieth century are likely to see and
learn still more marvelous things than
have been made known in the past.

	An attempt has been made to determine
the opinions of ten of the most eminent
scholars now living concerning the very
best books of the century or those that
have most influenced thought and activities.
	The men selected are James Bryce,
Harry Van Dyke, Arthur T. Hadley, T.
W. Higginson, Edward E. Hale, George
A. Gordon, A. M. Fairbairn, C. Stanley Hall.
	Of these men five are heads of colleges,
and all are men of broad views, and
superior knowledge of the world in its
widest sense.
	The books most mentioned are Tenny-
son’s incomparable In Memoriam, Words-
worth’s “Lyrical Ballads,” Goethe’s
“Faust,” Scotts “Waverley,” Victor Hugo’s
“Les Miserables,” Harriet Beecher Stowe’s
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” Ruskin’s “Modern
Painters,” Hegel’s “Logic,” Lyell’s
“Geology,” Comte’s “Positive Philosophy.”
	These seem more often mentioned except
one which is mentioned by nine out of the
Ten, Darwin’s “Origin of Species.”
	Other books mentioned are George
Elliot’s “Middlemarch,” Froebel’s “Edu-
cation of Man,” Napoleon’s “Civil Code,”
Spencer’s “Principles of Psychology,”
Renan’s “Life of Jesus,” De Tocqueville’s 
“Democracy of America,” Carlyle’s “Sartor
Resartus,” Grove’s “Correlation of the Phy-
sical Forces,” Hawthorne’s “Scarlet Leuter”
and others.
	The Latter-day Saints one and all, per-
haps, or if ten of the most eminent men in
the Church were selected to give an
opinion of this kind, would probably agree
that the book which had been most bene-
ficial in awakening thought and activities
in this century would be the “Book of
Mormon,” which was not exactly written
in this cenutry, but brought forth and
translated. Then the “Book of Doctrine and
Covenants” and “Pearl of Great Price.”
	Of others we should naturally think
“The Life of Joseph Smith,” “The Voice of
Warning,” “Key to Theology,” “Spencer’s
Letters” and the poems of Eliza R. Snow
and John Lyon.
	The writer also appreciates Tullidge’s
“Life of Brigham Young,” his “Life
of Joseph Smith” and his “Women of
Morrnondom,” “The Articles of Faith” and

[Column 3]
Orson Pratt’s “Key to the Universe,” the
last mentioned would probably be con-
sidered, by men outside the Church, the
greatest book by a Mormon author.
	The writer agrees with the judges ap-
pointed to give opinions upon the books of
the century, on Tennyson’s “In Memoriam”
as the greatest poetical production, and
would differ in reference to George Elliot’s
“Middlemarch” substituting as her best 
novel “Romola.” So far as the principle
of Evolution in Darwin’s work we would
not differ so widely, but in regard to his
origin of species, we are positive his theory
is incorreet. However, the world is moving
onward, and the Lord is teaching and
giving light and knowledge to mankind,
and Tennyson’s words are coming to pass-
‘Not in vain the distance beacons, forward, forward 
	let us range.
Let the great world spin forever down the ringing
	groves of change.”


HALF A CENTURY.
	Naturally one feels when fifty years of
life have passed, that he has reached an im-
portant period, and can look back with
pride if something creditible has been ac-
complished. Elder Andrew Jenson,
Assistant Church Historian, whose fiftieth
birthday anniversary was celebrated on the
eleventh of this month, has the satisfaction
of having spent thirty-four years in the ser-
vice of the Church.
	The party in his honor was arranged by
his family and two or three hundred in-
vitations sent out, some long distances.
	The entertainment was given in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly rooms, which
were handsomely decorated with evergreens,
palms, etc. Four tables the entire length
of the hall were provided witn the bounties
of the earth for the delectation of the guests.
	The tables were well filled with the
happy crowd assembled, glad to do justice
to the variety of good things prepared for
the banquet.
	When the goodly company were seated
Apostle John Henry Smith pronounced the
blessing. Apostle Anthon H. Lund was
master of ceremonies and welcomed the
company in a few well chosen words. The
exercises were somewhat varied. Some
congratulatory telegrams and letters from
absent friends were read by Brother Lund.
Apostle J. H. Smith, President Angus M.
Cannon and Sister E. B. Wells were the
first impromptu speakers, each congratu-
lating him and wishing him every blessing
to which the faithful are entitled in this life
and hereafter. Afterwards Brother Jenson
made an address in which he spoke of his
labors as a historian and how much he en-
joyed the work, and of his love for the
Gospel and his desires for the future.
	President Joseph E. Taylor told a story
which related, in fact, to his own life and
that of Brother Jensen, and the coincidence
of birth on the same day of the year,
though he has attained to three score and
ten. His remarks were extremely felicitous
and carried one’s thoughts into the previous
existence.
	Apostle John Taylor was very amusing,
and specially complimentary to the ladies.
	There were songs by home celebrities and
recitations by little Miss Allen that were
very humorous and heartily applauded, as
also were the vocalists.
	A photographer came and took flash
pictures of the whole company, table, decor-
ations and all.


Counselor Arthur Barnes, of the City
Council, spoke a short time in a happy vein
and Mrs. Elizabeth D. Roundy read a care-
fully prepared and well written paper giving,
some idea of Brother Jensen’s early life, his
birthplace in Denmark, his travels to the
holy land and around the world. The
evening entertainment closed with singing
“Auld Lang Syne,” and benediction by
Elder Adolph Madsen.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSAY.
	On the 2nd of December was the birthday
anniversary of Sister Armeda Snow Young,
and by invitation of her husband, Brother
Morris Young, and his mother, Sister
Margaret P. Young, a number of her friends
gathered at her home and held a meeting.
As it was Fast day many of the guests had
attended the morning Fast meeting in the
Temple, yet were not excused on that
account, therefore the Bishop of the ward,
Millen C. Atwood, and Frank Y. Taylor,
President of Granite Stake, in which she re-
sides, had arranged to hold the meeting at
the residence of Brother and Sister Young.
	President F. Y. Taylor took charge of
the meeting, Prof. C. J. Thomas of the
music. The first exercise was singing,
“Jesus mighty King in Zion.” Prayer by
Brother McGee. “Singing, O, my Father,”
	President Taylor made a few opening re-
maks, also President John R. Winder, one
of the presiding Bishopric of the Church,
and Bishop Atwood.
	Brother George D. Pyper sang in his
beautiful tenor, “Scatter Sunshine,” which
was a great pleasure to all.
	Other speakers were Sisters Zina D. H.
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emma S.
Woodruff, Sarah B. Gibson, Margaret P.
Young’ Emmeline B. Wells, Brother and
Sister McGee and Sister Lillie T. Freeze,
who also sang very sweetly in the gift of
tongues which was interpreted by “Sister
Zina.” Brother Hafen also made some re-
marks.
	Brother and Sister Morris Young wel-
comed the guests in the beginning of the
meeting very cordially, and all the exercises
were rendered in a very heavenly spirit.
Prof. Thomas led in the hymn, “Who are
these arrayed in white?” and at the close
the hymn “Lord dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing” was sung by the assembly. Bishop
Winder pronounced the benediction.
	Tables were spread with a bountiful re-
past and decorations of white chrysanthe-
mums and beautiful ferns gave a festive ap-
pearance to the auspicious occasion.
	The dinner was a most delicious one and
thoroughly enjoyed by all present, as also
the conversation, which was mostly rem-
iniscent of “Auld Lang Syne.”
	Many heartfelt congratulations and good
wishes for future success and happiness
were showered upon Sister Young in re-
membrance of the day, and complimenting
her upon retaining her youthful appearance
and vivacity of spirits, and wishing herself,
husband and children all the blessings
of this life and eternal happiness hereafter.
	There were many others present besides
those who took part in the meeting, among
whom we noticed Prof. Evans (the artist)
and wife, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, Brother
Le Roy Snow and wife, Mrs. George D.
Pyper, Mrs. Asahel Woodruff, Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze and many others.
	President Lorenzo Snow, Sister Young’s
father, was detained on account of a death
in the family, which was a source of regret


to all; but the affair was a very pleasant one
and the EXPONENT wishes long life, health
and prosperity to Sister Young, and that
she may always be able to entertain her
friends in as kindly and hospitable a fashion.


[Column 1]
	STORY OF ONE CHRISTMAS.
Who can tell what ships may be sailing towards
us over unknown seas?
	Christmas Eve, the memorable night
when the solemn stars shone out bright
and luminous on the pathway of Mary,
the Blessed Virgin, as she journeyed to-
wards Bethlehem of Judea; and she knew
not what awaited her, nor the tidings that
were to be given on that night of nights to
the country shepherds, abiding in the
fields, keeping watch over their flocks.
How the angel of the Lord came upon them
and His glory shone round about them,
and he declared unto them the glad tidings
of great joy, saying “Unto you is born this
day, in the city of David, a Savior, which
is Christ the Lord.” We all know the
sweet and touching story, so beautifully
portrayed by inspired men in days of old,
and handed down to us in Holy Writ.
	And thus many times since and even in
our own day have strange things come un-
expectedly in the course of human events,
and sometimes light and knowledge of
divine truth has been brought to the homes
and hearts of men and women, when they
knew not that the Lord was so mindful of
them, or that the angel spoken of in Reve-
lations had flown through the heavens bear-
ing the Everlasting Gospel to preach to
them that dwell on the earth, the message
of salvation; and sitting by their own hearth-
stones or toiling in the fields or workshops,
all unawares this message has come to
many thousands, not always upon Christ-
mas, or the Sabbath day, but sometimes
even so, and no greater Christmas gift can
one receive than the divine ray of light and
truth.
	Look back seventy years and picture to
yourself a home of peace and plenty in the
then far Western Reserve of Ohio, near the
great lakes. All is prosperous without and
within, and you may gaze into the living
room, where order and tranquility seeming-
ly abide, and hear the father, mother and
children singing an old Campbellite hymn,
as they sit around the fire of hickory logs.
Listen to the sweet voices! It is not a
Christmas carol, though Christmas is draw-
ing near, but a grand anthem of praise.

	“Burst ye emerald gates and bring
		To my enraptured vision, 
	All the ecstatic joys that spring,
		Round the bright Elysian.
	Lo! we lift our longing eyes,
		Break ye intervening skies!
	Son of righteousness arise,
		Ope the gates of Paradise!

	“Four and twenty Elders rise,
		From their princely station,
	Shout their glorious victories
		Sing the great salvation;
	Cast their crowns before His throne,
		Cry in reverential tone,
	Glory be to God alone!
		Holy, Holy, Holy One!”

	It is a fitting hymn for those whose hearts
are full of love and devotion. The evening
prayer is offered and the children in their
white night robes are taken away by the
nurse, after the usual goodnight kiss, and
the father and the mother sit talking over
the events of the day, refering to the chil-
dren and to those who are at school, and
proudly, too, of the eldest boy who is

[Column 2]
making rapid progress, while they are
somewhat puzzled what is best to do with
the girl who is almost as old as her brother
but prefers needle, thread and scissors to her
books.
	“We’ll send her to Painesville to the
girl’s Seminary,” says the father, anxious
to ease the mother’s mind.
	“I can’t help thinking,” says the fond
mother, “of my own home so far away, and
how little I realized until I had children of
my own what my mother must have felt
when I left her to come West with Aunt
Polly. Dear me, it is a dozen years ago or
more, how long it seems, and I’ve promised
them every year since I was married I
would visit dear old Bethany and New
Haven again.”
	“And so you shall this next spring. My
business has prospered beyond my wildest
dreams or ambition, the Lord has been more
merciful to me than I deserved, and there is
no reason now to delay your visit longer. I
shall go to New York to purchase goods and
will take you with me, and accompany you
to your old home and you can stay until I
transact my business and am ready to re-
turn,” said the husband in reply.
	“Aunt Polly will not consent to my leav-
ing the children, I’m sure, and I do not
know how I could trust them to hired help.
I fear my visit would be made uncomfortable
with thoughts of their being neglected in
my absence. I do not know what is best, I
wish they would come here and visit us.
How proud I should be to show them each
one of my little troop!”
	“Well, Mary, you have some months to
think it over and decide, and you can busy
yourself meantime with cutting and making
new apparel, for my wife must go home in
style and her girl friends will see tho’ she
went away out into the wild West, that she
is not behind them in dress or manner.”
	“O, as to that, I care very little, but
Aunt Polly’s feelings must be considered.
She has been father and mother to me, you
know, and she has no one except me and
mine to love or care for. But she is a
spinster and children annoy her, and she
cannot understand them. I must think the
matter over carefully.”
	“We’ve settled down for life now and we
must educate the children. Frank will
soon be ready for Oberlin, at the rate he is
progressing. His teacher told me today he
was far ahead of any boy in the school. We
need have no fears for him, and as for Lois,
she’ll be safe in the Seminary, and you must
make up your mind to go, my dear, and it
will be a benefit to your health and a great
satisfaction all around.”
	And so the matter was settled and sort of
dismissed from their minds, for it had often
been discussed before, but so many obstacles
always seemed in the way of accomplishing
the long journey, for such it was in those 
days.
	Silence reigned, such as comes from deep,
absorbing thought, when a loud knock at
the door caused Mrs. Emory to start and
exclaim, “Who can be coming so late?”
	Almost before she could finish the sentence
Mr. Emory was in the front entry unbolt-
ing the door, and the hearty “Good eve-
ning” of the strange voices rang through
the house, clear as a bell.
	“Walk in, gentlemen,” said the host,
and led the way to the fire. “My wife,
gentlemen. I have not the pleasure of
your acquaintance, unless—”
	The sentence remained unfinished, for the


[Column 1]
two strangers bowing to the lady said,
“We are looking for a night’s lodging. We
are traveling without purse or scrip, like
the disciples of old, with no place to sleep
for the night. We seemed to be directed
hither, and we hope to have shelter,” said
the one who had entered first.
	“Certainly you shall have food and
lodging, for a night at least. But be seated
and lay off your outside wraps, the room
will be warm after being out in the cold.
Have you come far?”
	“Only from Mendon today, but we have
been traveling some weeks,” replied the
eldest of the strangers, though both men
were in the prime of life.
	Mrs. Emory looked at the stranger guests
like one amazed. She thought they must
be Methodist Circuit Preachers, yet they
were evidently traveling on foot. As they
removed their overcoats Mr. Emory noticed
that they carried books, and observed, “I
see you must be preachers. May I inquire
of what denomination you are? Methodist,
I presume?”
	“And are you Methodist?” the younger
man asked, now speaking for the first time.
	“No,” replied the host, “we are Camp-
bellites only recently connected. But you
have not told me of what persuasion you
are. Evidently you are sincere to be
traveling through the country as you do in
this sort of weather.”
	With some hesitation the older man,
(whom we shall call Gray) replied, “We
are Elders of the true Church of Latter-day
Saints, and we preach the Everlasting
Gospel of life and salvation.”
	For a moment no one spoke. The words
seemed to have come like a prophecy, but
the woman was the first to break the spell.
	“You seem to come with power. What
are the books you carry? Will you tell us
if you preach from them?”
	“We have the Bible and we preach re-
pentance and baptism for the remission of
sins.”
	“So does Alexander Campbell and Sidney
Rigdon, and it is our own faith,’’ said Mrs.
Emory, modestly.
	“We do not know of your church, I
fear, and must inquire further of your doc-
trines,” said Mr. Emory.
	“We are willing and glad to explain our
doctrines and to prove them all from the
Bible. But have you not heard of Joseph
Smith and the Book of Mormon?”
	“What is the Book of Mormon? I have
heard that a man named Smith, digging for
gold in a hill in New York State found
some gold plates and made them into a
book called The Golden Bible, but that is the
extent of my knowledge about it. I paid
no attention at all to the rumor. And so
you are his followers, are you?” said the
host.
	“We are proud to be recognized as be-
lieving in the last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times, and to testify that angels
visited Joseph Smith and conferred upon
him the Holy Priesthood, and he has be-
stowed it upon others.”
	This is a very strange doctrine and hard
to believe without further proof than you
are likely to be able to give. But you shall
have entertainment for the night and in the
morning we will speak of this new prophet
and the Golden Bible again. Meantime
will you have supper? We were preparing
to retire when you came, but you must not
go hungry. Mary, (turning to Mrs. Emory)
ask Aunt Polly to set some supper for
these gentlemen.”

[Column 2]
	Aunt Polly was very ungracious about
doing as she was asked by her niece, and
muttered to herself as she spread the cloth,
for she was not religious and always de-
clared she had no patience with men who
got their living without work.
	While the strangers were in the kitchen
(which Aunt Polly liked best of all the
house, and kept spick-span clean) Mr. and
Mrs. Emory talked of the guests who had
come unbidden to partake of their hospitali-
ty, and both husband and wife felt there
was something peculiar about them, and
even awe-inspiring, but could not tell why
they were so impressed by their presence.
	“I shall ask them to pray,” said the hus-
band, “we shall see how that will affect us.”
	During supper Aunt Polly was very
crabbed with them and they felt she was
angry they had come, she let them see it
plainly.
	Mr. Emory asked them to have prayers
as soon as they came into the room again,
and they knelt down. The prayer was like
a benediction upon them and the whole
household, and especially Mrs. Emory, who
was of a spiritual temperament, was melted
to tears. After they had retired she said to
her husband, “I never heard a prayer like
that, never.”
	The husband was not so susceptible, tho’
he was sore perplexed in his mind as to the
message these preachers brought. Their
earnestness and the way in which they were
going about was new to him, and he could
not question their sincerity. 
	The following morning the Elders were
up betimes, and were waiting when their
host and hostess came down stairs. The
breakfast was ready and the family gathered.
Mr. Emory, partly to judge the merits of
the men asked the younger one, (Mr. Dillon
we’ll call him) to offer prayer. Nothing
was said when they rose from their knees,
but Mr. Emory began, Yankee-like, to ply
them with questions concerning the tenets
of their faith, and the ready responses with
quotations from Scripture quite astonished
him. Mrs. Emory paid the closest attention
to the conversation, and became fully con-
vinced of the truth of the doctrines they
set forth.
	Breakfast over Mr. Emory said, “gentle-
men I must repair to my place of business
and will bid you good morning, but if you
preach in this vicinity, as I judge you wish
to do, from what you have said, I shall
certainly go to hear you, and you shall not
go away empty-handed.”
	He then offered them some money, which
they gladly accepted, and thanked him
heartily for his hospitality and the generous
gift.
	Before the day was over Aunt Polly came
into the room where her niece was and said,
“Mary, those canting preachers who staid
here last night are ‘Mormons.’ They’ve
been to Isaac Hartmon, one of your good
Campbellite brethren, and about converted
him to ‘Joe Smith,’ and they are going to
preach there at his house tonight.”
	“Then I shall go and hear them,” Mrs.
Emory answered, quickly, though Aunt
Polly remonstrated. And she kept her
word. Both herself and her husband were
at the meeting and listened attentively.
	Mrs. Emory was baptized very soon after-
wards. This was in November, 1830. Mr.
Emory took a little more time to study over
the matter and in about a week after his
wife’s baptism he, too, obeyed the same
principle, as also did a number of their
neighbors and friends.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Emory was very zealous, and she
soon gave up the idea of her visit to Con-
necticut, so anxious was she to become ac-
quainted with the Gospel as taught by the
Elders of the Church. Mr. Emory was a
man of very strong character and of sterling
quality, of mind and principle. He sought
the Lord diligently in prayer in regard to
what he heard from the preachers, and
especially in reference to the Book of
Mormon, its authenticity and the manner
of its coming forth. His one desire was to
see the Prophet Joseph for himself, and he
centred his mind upon this one subject. He
prayed earnestly for it, but he believed that
he must go to visit him, and intended to do
so as soon as he could leave home long
enough. The weather was growing very
cold and the snow was thick enough on the
ground to be very good sleighing.
	Mrs. Emory was not aware of her hus-
band’s intense feelings about seeing the
Prophet, though she knew he was pro-
foundly interested in the Book of Mormon
and wanted Scriptural proofs of the doctrine.
	Just before Christmas, when Mr. Emory
was busy in his store with holiday goods, a
tall, majestic looking stranger came in late
one afternoon and stepped up to the counter,
and reaching out his right hand said, “How
do you do, Brother Emory?”
	Looking him full in the face and failing
to recognize him, Mr. Emory replied, “You
have the advantage of me, sir. I do not
know who you are,” or words to that effect
	“I am Joseph the Prophet,” he replied.
“You have prayed me here, now what do
you want of me ? My wife and servant
girl are outside in a sleigh, we have driven
a long distance.”
	In a moment it all flashed upon the mind
of Mr. Emory—his prayers, his pleadings
with the Lord to be permitted to see the
Prophet and talk with him face to face of
the heavenly visions and visits of angels;
yet here he stood, his prayers were answered
and he felt almost condemned.
	He was as one in a trance for a brief
moment, then he said, “Come with me to
my home,” and he hastened with the glad
tidings of great joy to his wife who was more
overcome than even her husband with the
startling news and the unlooked for visit of
the stranger guests. She knew not how
to receive them royally enough, and
modestly hesitated, but they were at the
door directly and needed a welcome, for
they were cold, and tired with the journey
in the inclement weather.
	As much embarrassed as one would be in
a kingly presence, yet rejoicing at the
privilege of such an honor, they welcomed
them to their hearts and home.
	Can our readers imagine the picture?
Perhaps many of the Saints, who are so ac-
customed to entertaining the greatest men
of our Church in this day, may fancy they
know how these early Latter-day Saints felt
at that time; but if you call to mind the
newness of the whole situation, the rever-
ence in which they held even the Elders
who had taught them the first lessons in
the Gospel, you will comprehend better the
feelings of those who were thus summarily
brought face to face with the Prophet, who
had been the recipient of the wonderful
spiritual manifestations of which they had
only just been told.
	Late into the night they sat round the
fire and conversed. The house seemed to
have been transformed as if by magic into a
heavenly abode, and as though angels were
present rejoicing with them.


[Column 1]
	Emma Smith had come on this visit with
her husband with very little preparation,
and Sister Emory was proud to divide with
her the new goods she had expected to make
up for her trip to visit her parents.
	The days passed swiflty. There was so
much to tell and so much to hear. Sister
Emma—for so they called her—knew all
about the visions and manifestations of her
husband, and was never weary of repeating
these wonderful incidents to Sister Emory,
her neighbors and friends, for many came to
see and to hear of the new faith. Christ-
mas came very soon, in less than a week
after the arrival of Joseph and Emma, and
though the day was not celebrated then
with all the parade and extravagance that
prevails nowadays, yet there were gifts and
feasts and charities of a simple character,
and kindly feeling among peoples of all
classes and all religious faiths.
	Think if you can what it meant to these
people to have a prophet with them on
Christmas day after so many hundreds of
years that no direct revelation had been
given, and they had been told that there
would be no more, “the canon of scripture
was full.”
	The Lord had indeed been mindful of
them and they listened entranced day after
day to Joseph and Emma as they recounted
the thrilling events that had transpired since
the promulgation of the truths received from
on high, and the indignities, heaped upon
them and the persecutions they had been
made to endure.
	To those who are living now and are
acquainted with the leaders of the Church,
who are men of years, grown gray in the
service of the Lord, it is scarcely possible
to make them realize how very young the
Prophet Joseph was when he commenced
the great work of this dispensation. When
the Church was organized first he was not
yet twenty-five years old; and just before
the Christmas following that event he had
barely reached his quarter of a century. It
really seems incredible that a youth, a mere
boy, could have accomplished so much in so
short a time. Assuredly it is marvelous;
and the time will come when the world will
acknowledge his wisdom, and the influence
he has exerted in this century, now so
nearly drawing to a close.
	To be associated in a slight degree with
Joseph Smith was sufficient to inspire one
with his superiority to other men, even his
brethren in the priesthood, therefore it
is not to be wondered at that all those
liying now who remember him, should
testify to the influence and power he carried
wherever he was seen, no matter at what
time nor in what place.
	Nothing could be more beautiful than the
early life of Joseph Smith. In his manner he
was gentle and kindly, and he was always
affectionate to his friends, and at times
demonstrative. He was strong and ardent
in his nature and valued highly the quality
of sincerity in friendship. He was manly
to an unusual degree, yet tender-hearted as
a woman on occasions. In his tastes he
was literary as well as spiritual, fond of the
drama, of music and of poetry. A very
dear friend of mine who knew the Prophet
intimately when she was a child, assured me
she had repeated poetry to him by the hour,
and that she had known him to shed tears
when hearing some specially fine vocal
music, particularly old-fashioned songs and
ballads. With such noble characteristics it
is not strange that he was so intensely
beloved.

[Column 2]
	Blessed is the home where such men find
welcome: thrice blessed those who are
privileged to entertain prophets and men of
God.
	And therefore we repeat that to sit down
to a Christmas feast unexpectedly with a
man of destiny is far greater than any
material gift of this world’s goods. Such
privileges are only vouchsafed to the few;
yet Christmas is the opportune time to dis-
pense bounties and to share with others, our
friends and neighbors, the good gifts a kind
Providence bestows, and to show our apprecia-
tion in some genuine and substantial way
for those of our own household, if we can
do no more; but if possible extend a helping
hand to those less able to entertain, not as a
charity, but graciously, that their Christmas
may be one of good cheer and kindly fellow-
ship.
	The Savior came with Peace and Good
Will to all men. He brought life and
salvation to all who obey His command-
ments. It was the beginning of a new
time from which we date our years, now
numbering Nineteen Hundred in a few
more days, as time is now calculated. He
gave us the Golden Rule, “To do unto
others as we would have them do unto us.”
	In this century the Gospel he taught has
been restored again to earth by Joseph
Smith, whose mission was greater than any
other man or prophet since the days of the
Savior and His Apostles. And the name
and fame of the great Prophet of the
Latter-day dispensation should be kept be-
fore the children of the Latter-day Saints,
the name be spoken with reverence among
this people.
	The children old enough to appreciate the
fact, and thoughtful people generally, will
be sure to remember that this Christmas is
more unusual than any they have celebrated
heretofore, because it is the last in the cen-
tury and commences the last one of the two
thousand years since the birth of Christ.
	The Christmas seventy years ago, the
first one after the Church of the Latter-day
Saints was organized, though little thought
of then, was really an eventful one.
Sometimes we pass over almost uncon-
sciously the events that in after years prove
to have been the most important turning
points in history, and it is only in looking
backward that we recognize even afterwards
their significance.
						AUNT EM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	It is with great pleasure that I greet the
readers of the EXPONENT here in this par-
ticular corner which shall be ours to discuss
some of the problems which interest women
in their homes. We may exchange
recipes and methods, and, too, we shall
consider many of those home topics which
just now are so popular and which engage
so much attention from the scientific and
economic world.
	But, bear with me, dear sister, we shall
not enter too deeply into the grave question
of economics, at least, not at present; but
we shall discuss some practical phases of
home life and home uplifting.
	I am very happy to present to you, as the
first paper in this Dept., one written by the
brilliant President of the N. H. E. A., who
herself is deeply interested in our Western
problems, while she as yet has never been
West of the Mississippi.

[Column 2]
	I commend your earnest attention to the
paper, and bid you good day for a season.
DOMESTIC SERVICE PROBLEM.
	We no longer try to dodge this question
which is perplexing all housekeepers at the
present time, for we would still have the
fact staring us in the face to the consterna- 
tion of all who desire to live in homes, that
there is certainly a movement going on
which some one has designated as “The
passing of the servant girl.” We have all
read columns of stuff on this subject, (some
of it funny and more of it almost tragic), in
our eager and determined desire to discover
a cure for this disease which has gathered
us all in its clutches like an epidemic.
Back of all this seething unrest in the house-
hold world may the cause not be found in
three stupendous facts? Is not one of them
due to the recently opened door in the busi-
ness world which has not only allowed all
women to enter, but has made the path so
easy that many have forced their way in, to
the sacrifice of their own abilities?
	Let us dwell for a moment upon this
peculiar phase of the present situation—the
woman in business and in consequence the
recognized depletion in the ranks of house-
keepers as well as household wage earners.
First, however, let us be perfectly clear on
this subject and not confound the women
who have forced themselves into the busi-
ness world needlessly and unfittingly, with
the business woman who has learned to
make herself so invaluable in whatever
niche of affairs she has secured for herself
by ability and perseverance for which she is
now receiving all due recompense. There
is always a good market for skill and brains
and tact in every department of wage earn-
ing. Therefore, we have to do with the
women who have rushed into business pur-
suits and pre-empted their claims with an
avidity worthy of our Oklahoma settlers, 
and not the reliable, capable, level-headed,
earnest business women which this pro-
gressive nineteenth century has brought
forth.
	If we may believe the signs of the times
as depicted in recent magazine and news-
paper articles, we need hardly trouble our-
selves a great deal about this large army of
incompetents. One writer facetiously claims
a speedy return of the prodigal daughter in-
to the safe but neglected harbor of home
life, which show that in the economic re-
lations of the world of business there is no
room for sentiment. Just as soon as the
supply of efficiency equals the demand, the
incompetents in business pursuits will
be crowded out, and they will then be forced
naturally with regret, to learn the sad decree,
some one has put so tersely, that “women
who are eager for a career must remember
that ignorance and inefficiency in the home
are not good recommendations for the busi-
ness life for which they long.” Nearly all
of the holes in commercial life are square and
we must admit that the average woman is
by education, heritage and environment so
well rounded that she has a natural fitness for
the many-sided phases of home life. Never-
theless we must emphasize the statement, at
the risk of repetition, that the average
woman seeking for a place in the world of
commerce must not be confounded with the
business woman, who perhaps has a family to
support and at least a pardonable desire for a
home to have and to hold. When our
young women show that degree of self-
reliance and capability which this business


[Column 1]
woman must possess in order to keep pace
with the competition which has always an
economic value in the world of affairs, she
will receive the compensation which is due
the skilled and thoroughly reliable employee,
utterly regardless of sex.
	Let us go back a generation or two if
we would gain a clear idea of another reason
for our domestic difficulties. In our great
army of domestic home makers we see a
constant struggle to make both ends meet
around a rapidly increasing surface of re-
sponsibility and expenditure, but this class
of women in our grandmother’s days were
quite content to spend at least a portion of
the time in looking after their own especial
business of household management, but now
the heads of these homes have found so
many interests outside of the home that it
has become necessary to increase the quality
and quantity of those who are to remain
under cover in order to keep the wheels of
all of the domestic industries in motion. We
rejoice, however, that women have these
varied and enlightened interests which have
come to us all in this latter end of a particu-
larly progressive century.
	In connection with this evolution in
household concerns, our public educators
have made it possible for all pupils, without
regard to fitness or ability to become imbned
with the idea that if the avenues of the so
called genteel pursuits for which they are
preparing themselves should be closed to
them, they would almost prefer to become
parasites upon their relatives, friends or
even the State than to bring their unused
hands into service. We are seeing the
effect of this mistaken step in the plethora of
mediocre seekers after positions of short
hours and light labor, and a corresponding
scarcity in the ranks of efficient artisans
with skill and competency which are so
closely related to all human happiness and
well being.
	Another snarl which perhaps seems the
most hopeless of disentanglement is the
rapidly increasing number of mills and
factories which furnish a great outlet for
purely mechanical labor. Women and
young girls have, in Europe as well as this
country, rushed into this easiest of all in-
dustries. The automaton-like methods
which are so quickly learned and more
easily repeated day after day, and the cor-
responding emoluments of such labor and
definite hours of release from supervision,
have been the means more than anything
else of depriving the household of its old
time servitors. When we realize that this
kind of employment gives to the employees
all that they most desire—their holidays,
their Sundays and their evenings, and the
unquestioned freedom of action so much
sought for by our liberty loving people,
we can readily understand why the majority
of housekeepers of today are in such
domestic turmoil.
	We may suggest numerous remedies for
this deploroble situation; perhaps the most
enticing is co-operative housekeeping which
always shows up so well on paper, but we
fear it will take generations of persistent

[Column 2]
educators to entirely extinguish the idiosyn-
cracies of the individual family.
	Even in these progressive projects there
must be rules and regulations and corps of
expert, qualified artisans, if there is to be the
harmonious system which its progenitors
promise in lieu of the independence of the
separate home life. While we are waiting
for these model “Homes” we must still
struggle with individual households and we
are forced to admit that no enterprising
combination of co-workers, or even sug-
gestions of any system of rules and regula-
tions will ever accomplish anything until
all women who are to enter into the business
of housekeeping, either as brain workers or
hand workers, have become thoroughly
educated in this most essential of all that
goes to make the home a perfect abiding
place.
	Therefore let us plead for this education
for our classes as well as our masses; then
we may safely follow with suggestions and
wise regulations of the laws which should
govern the management of households. We
should not lose sight of the pertinent fact
that for these laws to be successful, we must
grant a just estimation of the skill and
capability of experienced and educated
employees and demand thorough business
ability on the part of the employers. This
means that we must find ways and means to
enable us to sift out of the army of domestic
workers the shiftless, the incompetent and
the utterly hopeless cases and give just
treatment, leisure hours and good wages to
those who survive this ordeal. But no
housekeeper can do this unless she under-
stands her business, and then not without
co operation with all others of her kind.
	But, my sisters, let us strive to keep ever
before us in this great work of ours, that
Golden Rule which means forbearance to-
wards every dweller under the household
roof and which presupposes a wise tolerance
and appreciation for the individuality of the
workers as well as the idlers who
live therein.
			LINDA HULL LARNED.


64	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS GO.
67, 69, 71 Main St. Salt Lake City.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.						TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .

OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.

FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between 
	Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . , . .

See that your tickets read via the
		“SHORT LINE”
					And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,		D E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.			G.P. & T.A


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORTS.

	The time has come for annual reports and
it is important that reports be sent in as soon
as possible after the close of 1900. It is not
only necessary to have Stake reports, but
wherever a Relief Society has been organized
outside Stakes, whether in the United States,
British Empire, Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland, Holland, the islands of the sea,
reports for the year 1900, from January 1
to December 31, are expected at head-
quarters.
E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


LADY SOMERSET'S COLONY.
	The Viscountess Horncastle gave a
garden party August 20, at Taymouth
House, Hackney Downs to acquaint her
friends with the work at Lady Somerset for
inebriate women at the colony she has es-


tablished at Duxhurst. Rev. C. F.
Wiliams was in the chair and introduced
Mrs. Graham, who is connected with the
work at Duxhurst. She said that there
was originally six cottages, each of which
could receive six patients. Two more have
been added, one by the voluntary sub-
scription of sailors, the other by the town of
Hastings.
	Under the Act of 1898 magistrates are
empowered to send inebriate women to a
home after a third conviction, and the good
that Duxhurst can do is only limited by the
number it can house. As many as three
thousand cases have had to be refused in
one year.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 29 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1900. No. 15


CONTENTS.
Greeting to the World..........Lorenzo Snow		65
R. S. Report........................................			66
Birthday Party.....................................			66
Suffrage Bazar Notes........................			66
An Allegory...............Susa Young Gates		67
Relief Society Annual Reports......E. B Wells	67
Symposium. The 19th and 20th Centuries....		68
What Hath the Century Wrought?.Homespun	70
A Woman Missionary.......Mrs. Addison Pratt	71
Notes and News.................................			62
EDITORIAL—The New Year and New Century	68
POETRY—The Passing of the Century.R.M. Fox	65
	Santa Claus on a Pullman Car.......A. J. C	77
	The Generations..........Lydia D. Alder		72


[Column 1]
THE PASSING OF THE CENTURY.

Toll, bells toll, toll, bells toll,
A century is passing away,
With its follies and woes, 
Its horrors and throes;
So swiftly ’tis passing,
Not peacefully passing.
But striving with bloodshed and sin.

Toll, toll, toll, sadly toll;
For its great contentions and wars,
For the heroes they’ve slain
Upon land and on main,
For women that are weeping,
Their lone vigil keeping—
For loved ones who never return.

Toll, toll, mournfully toll,
For the needless hunger and cold,
For those who have perished
Unloved and uncherished,
For those who were driven,
Though bravely they’d striven,
To sell their own bodies for bread.

Toll, toll, solemnly toll.
For the crime of the century dire,
For the sorrow and shame,
That shall ever remain;
For the cry that’s ascending—
Forever ascending
To the throne of the great I Am.

Toll, toll, remorsefully toll;
'Tis the blood of the martyrs so true—
Of prophets rejected,
Who were called and elected,
To emblazon the way,
With a luminous ray,
Direct from the courts above.
		*	*	*

Toll, toll, tenderly toll;
It is but a memory now:
Let the soft robe of charity,
That mantle of rarity.
Encircle the bier;
For do we not hear?
’Twas truly a wonderful age!

Toll, toll, cheerfully toll,
Good works in part may atone;
'Tis its own bereavement.
Though there be no retrievement.
The world has grown better,
Full many a fetter
Has been loosed in the century past

Toll, toll, joyously toll;
Real greatness will always remain—
For its wondrous advancement,
'Twas an age of enchantment;
Its way has been fraught,
With the marvels God wrought,
In sight of the children of men.

Toll, toll, toll, proudly toll;
As swift as the wind we go,
For the science and arts,
And the o’erflowing marts,
For the messages speeding,
Long distance unheeding,
For speech flashing over the wire.

[Column 2]
Toll, toll, wond’ringly toll!
For the electrical current unseen;
Which simply astounds us,
Its limits are boundless,
Its magical power
Is a magnificent dow’r,
To bequeathe to ages to come.

Toll, toll, gratefully toll!
For the age of liberty’s dawning,
Shall cast its bright beam
Adown Time’s running stream,
Until freedom shall reign, 
Over mountain and plain,
And the rivers join in the glad song.

Toll, toll, toll, loudly toll!
The world’s deliverance is nigh;
The angels of wrath,
Are sweeping the path,
The scourges and wonders.
The tempests and thunders
Are proclaiming “Prepare ye the way."

Toll, toll, toll yet again!
For who shall His coming abide?
In His glory resplendent,
With a host of attendants, 
He is coming again.
O’er the whole earth to reign,
And to Him shall all nations bow.
				RUTH M. FOX.


[Column 1]
GREETING TO THE WORLD.
BY PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW.
	A new century dawns upon the world
today. The hundred years just completed
were the most momentous in the history of
man upon this planet. It would be impos-
sible in a hundred days to make even a brief
summary of the notable events, the mar-
velous developments, the grand achieve-
ments and the beneficial inventions and
discoveries, which mark the progress of the
ten decades now left behind in the ceaseless
march of humanity. The very mention of
the nineteenth century suggests advance-
ment, improvement, liberty and light.
Happy are we to have lived amidst its
wonders and shared in the riches of its
treasures of intelligence.
	The lessons of the past century should
have prepared us for the duties and glories
of the opening era. It ought to be the age
of peace, of greater progress, of the univer-
sal adoption of the golden rule. The bar-
barism of the past should be buried. War
with its horrors should be but a memory.
The aim of nations should be fraternity and
mutual greatness. The welfare of human-
ity should be studied instead of the enrich-
ment of a race or the extension of an em-
pire. Awake, ye monarchs of the earth and
rulers among nations, and gaze upon the
scene on which the early rays of the rising
Millennial day gild the morn of the twen-
tieth century! The power is in your hands
to pave the way for the coming King of
Kings, whose dominion will be over all the
earth. Disband your armies, turn your
weapons of strife into implements of indus-
try; take the yoke from the necks of the
people; arbitrate your disputes; meet in
royal congress, and plan for union instead of
conquest, for the banishment of poverty,
for the uplifting of the masses, and for the
health, wealth enlightenment and happiness
of all tribes and peoples and nations. Then
shall the twentieth century be to you the

[Column 2]
glory of your lives and the lustre of your
crowns, and posterity shall sing your
praises, while the Eternal One shall place
you on high among the mighty.
	Ye toiling millions, who, in the sweat of
your faces earn your daily bread, look up
and greet the power from above which
shall lift you from bondage! The day of
your redemption draweth nigh. Cease to
waste your wages in that which helps to
keep you in want. Regard not wealth as
your enemy and your employers as your
oppressors. Seek for the union of capital
and labor. Be provident when in prosper-
ity. Do not became a prey to designing
men who seek to stir up strife for their own
selfish ends. Strive for your rights by law-
ful means, and desist from violence and de-
struction. Anarchism and lawlessness are
your deadly foes. Dissipation and vice are
chains that bind you to slavery. Freedom
is coming for you, its light approaches as
the century dawns.
	Men and women of wealth, use your
riches to give employment to the laborer!
Take the idle from the crowded centers of
population and place them on the untilled
areas that await the hand of industry. Un-
lock your vaults, unloose your purses, and
embark in enterprises that will give work to
the unemployed, and relieve the wretched-
ness that leads to the vice and crime which
curse your great cities, and that poison the
moral atmosphere around you. Make
others happy, and you will be happy your-
selves.
	As a servant of God I bear witness to the
revelation of his will in the nineteenth cen- 
tury. It came by His own voice from the
heavens, by the personal manifestation of
His Son and by the manifestation of holy
angels. He commands all people every-
where to repent, to turn from their evil
ways and unrighteous desires, to be baptized
for the remission of their sins, that they
may receive the Holy Ghost and come into
communion with Him. He has commenced
the work of redemption spoken of by the
holy prophets, sages and seers of all the
ages and all the races of mankind. He
will assuredly accomplish His work and the
twentieth century will mark its advance-
ment towards the great consummation.
Every unfoldment of the nineteenth century
in science, in art, in mechanism, in music,
in literature, in poetic fancy, in philosophi-
cal thought was prompted by His Spirit
which before long will be poured out upon
all flesh that will receive it. He is the
Father of us all and he desires to save and
exalt us all.
	In the eighty-seventh year of my age on
earth, I feel full of earnest desire for the
benefit of humanity. I wish all a happy
New Year. I hope and look for grand
events to occur in the twentieth century.
At its auspicious dawn I lift my hands and
invoke the blessing of heaven upon the in-
habitants of the earth. May the sunshine
from above smile upon you. May the
treasures of the ground and the fruits of the
soil be brought forth freely for your good.
May the light of truth chase darkness from
your souls. May righteousness increase and


iniquity diminish as the years of the cent[--]
roll on. May justice triumph and corrup-
tion be stamped out. And may virtue and
chastity and honor prevail until evil shall
be overcome and the earth shall be cleansed
from wickedness. Let these sentiments, as
the voice of the “Mormons” in the moun-
tains of Utah, go forth to the whole world,
and let the people know that our wish and
our mission are for the blessing and salva-
tion of the entire human race. May the
twentieth century prove the happiest as it
will be the grandest of all the ages of time,
and may God be glorified in the victory that
is coming over sin and sorrow and misery
and death. Peace be unto you all!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall at 10
a. m., Dec. 1, 1900. Officers present on
the stand were Counselors Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C Cannon, Presidents B. W.
Smith, S. J. Cannon, M. W. Wilcox, E. J.
Stevenson, J. C. Howe. President Horne
absent, not very well.
	Meeting called to order by Counselor
Hyde. Opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Prayer by Counselor Clara
C. Cannon. Singing, “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.”
	The roll was called, a good representation
being present. Minutes of conference held
Sep. 8, read and approved.
	The presidents were then called upon for
reports, especially regarding the building
fund. All the wards were reported that had
a representative present, and all expressed a
willingness to do whatever was required of
them. Quite a number of the societies have
a reserve fund and all felt the need of a
central building and were more than willing
to work and use every means to accomplish
this end.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke on the same
subject. She felt sure that the amount
could be raised to build a comfortable build-
ing. Asked all the societies to please send
in the amount they felt it possible for
them to donate.
	Sister Howe felt that the sisters who had
reported had exhibited a spirit of humility
and obedience. Gave a very interesting
account of her work in the Relief Society
from its first organization in this city. It is
usually the poor that help the poor, and
those who are wealthy are not so liberal. “I
have been promised to live to see this new
building dedicated and I am enthusiastic
over it, and hope we will work energetically
to accomplish the good work.”
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Closed
by singing “Come let us anew.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Augusta W. Grant.
	Afternoon session. President Horne
being unable to attend Counselor Annie T.
Hyde presided assisted by Clara C. Cannon.
	Meeting opened by singing “Arise, O
glorious Zion.” Prayer by Sister Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “Let those who would be
Saints indeed.” Minutes of the previous
conference of September 8, 1900, were read
and accepted.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said she felt
it is good to be a Saint. Thought our chil-
dren had great privileges, how careful we
should be as mothers, that our children may
never have to suffer for our evil acts.
Thanked the Lord for inspiring Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith to organize this society. Spoke of
the perseverance of the sisters in the differ-
ent wards in building halls and granaries,
helping the poor and many other things.
Spoke of the unity that existed among the
sisters and thought we should be united in
building this new central building. Hoped
the presidents and officers of the society
would be inspired to know how to accumu-
late means to erect it.
	Sister Annie L. Johnson began by reading
from the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
45th chapter. She was for thirty years an
invalid. There are three things to be
understood: abdominal breathing, relax-
ation and a thorough knowledge of hygiene
and we can overcome disease. She believed
in simple remedies. If we gain knowledge
pertaining to ourselves we can overcome
every disease. Realized we should believe
intensely when we pray. President Snow
had told her to visit the different wards and
teach the sisters how to care for their
bodies, said she would be pleased to have
any one visit her, and would talk with them
on these subjects.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said she felt pleased
with the spirit made manifest by the presi-
dents in the reports this morning. Read an
extract from the third Relief Society meet-
ing held April 28, 1842. President Joseph
Smith gave the Relief Society a lecture
and told the sisters that they would be able
to heal the sick and gave them special
instructions. Referred to 1 Cor. 12th chap-
ter. He spoke of the jealousies among the
officers. Said the signs spoken of by Christ
in healing the sick, etc., applied as well to
the sisters as the brethren. There is no sin
in the women laying on hands for the heal-
ing of the sick, said there were aspiring
men, and this society would be troubled in
the same way. Exhorted the sisters to sus-
tain their husbands and to put down ini-
quity. Said “You cannot go too fast when
in the path of virtue. This is a charitable
society, it is natural for women to be inter-
ested in such work. If you are pure you
can come into the presence of God. Don’t
think yourselves more religious than others.
Let your hearts be enlarged towards others.
You will be instructed by the priesthood
from time to time. I now turn the keys for
woman. Don’t envy the show and finery
of others, for they are fleeting. Do not in-
dulge too much in the gift of tongues.”
Said the sick should be nourished with mild
herbs, and there is no one better qualified to
do this than the sisters.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she was
in the lodge room above the brick store in
Nauvoo when President Smith gave these
instructions.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said she needed to
come to the Relief Society to get the spirit
of the meeting. She knew the spirit of the
Lord was with them in the society. She
knew the women of the world had felt the
spirit of women’s organizations ever since
Joseph Smith first organized this society.
Said she believed we should use more of
our blessed oil, the Lord knew what was
good for us. Said she thought women
should claim all the blessings due to them,
believed there was more happiness in the
world than sorrow. Heard President Snow
said we should aim to live a hundred years.
Believed all scourges are the fulfilling of
prophecy.
	Annie T. Hyde said we should all
exercise faith for President Horne. Said
the new nurse course numbered 42. Said let
us try to keep the love of God in our hearts. 

[Column 2]
	President S. J. Cannon made some
practical remarks about the Woman’s
Building and encouraged the sisters in
striving to do their part.
	Sister Hyde said the conference would
now be adjourned for three months. In
four weeks would be the officers meeting,
and in two weeks the Retrenchment meeting.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet.” Benediction by Julia S.
Woolley.
		J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec. pro tem.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
Victor, Idaho, October 17, 1900.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	On September 22nd the members of the
Relief Society of Raymond Ward, with
some of the brethren, met at the ward meet-
ing house in the capacity of a surprise on
Sister Telitha Avery, first vice-president of
the association, who had just reached
the 76th milestone in life. She has always
taken an active part in religious affairs, was
one of the members of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo and has acted as president in some
of the wards in Utah. A nice program was
carried out, every number being worthy of
special mention. Two little girls, great
granddaughters of Sister Avery, sang very
nicely, and Sister Margaret Rice, seventy-
one years of age, sang sweetly a Nauvoo
hymn.
	After the program a nice lunch was par-
taken of and all joined in wishing the lady
many happy returns of the day.
	Our Relief Society is progressing nicely.
We have purchased a lot on which to build
a meeting house and granary in the near
future.
A.


SUFFRAGE BAZAR NOTES.
	ONE of the booths at the recent Suffrage
Bazar, on the right of the platform, dec-
orated with the national colors attracted
much interest. It was that of the en-
franchised states. Colorado sent a par-
ticularly fine exhibit. It included a large
doll dressed in white by the Governor's
wife, pressed Rocky Mountain wild
flowers, ornamental china plates, glass
tumblers with graceful figu[-]es of cowboys
and Indians upon them (every cowboy, we
were told, was supposed to represent
Teddy) pictures of berries burnt on yucca
bark and painted on orange wood, views of
the Holy Cross Mountain and other lands[-]
	THE doll presented by the wife of Capt
Hunt, Governor-elect of Idaho, was unique
among the many gubernatorial dolls of the
Bazar. Her name was "Miss Idaho." She
was dressed by a Sioux Indian woman; she
wore moccasins and a red dress plentifully
adorned with wampum, and her hair was
from the scalp of a Black Crow Indian.
Idaho also sent arrow heads, petrified
wood, a cane of polished onyx tipped with
silver, penholders and buttonhooks with
handles of agate, made in the Idaho peni-
tentiary, mineral specimens, souvenir spoons
hand painted china plates, a beautiful calf-
skin baby blanket, a figure representing a
Coeur de Alene miner with his pick, a
saddle blanket taken from the Sioux chief
"Snow on the Hill," moccasins that be-
longed to the Sioux chief, "Charlie Black
Horse," and other curiosities.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SANTA CLAUS ON A PULLMAN CAR.

It is New Year’s Eve, but let me tell
	What happened, strange but true,
To travelers on a flying train
	As they sped the darkness through.

It was Christmas Eve upon the train
	As well as in crowded town,
And through the windows we could see
	The drenching rain come down.
And while we sped as a bird might fly,
	Safe there in the warmth and light,
An old man spoke. “I think the rain
	Will change into snow tonight;
And ’twill be more like Christmas time
	If we get there covered with snow.”
And the old man laughed and a smile went
		round 
	For the heart still all aglow.

There sat another, but stern of look,
	You could tell no thought had he
Of a home ahead, or a happy past
	Around the Christmas tree;
For he scanned and scowled o’er columns long
	Of the market’s fall and rise,
With now and then impatient sniffs,
	Or deep drawn, troubled sighs.

Before him sat a mother pale
	And a restless boy of four,
Who turned in his seat and upon his knees
	Looked the stern man o’er and o’er
In silence, but so deep and long
	The man looked up to see
A chubby face and wondering eyes,
	Grave, earnest as, eyes could be.

“Has you any boys like me?” he asked.
	“No!” he answered, surlily.
“Maybe you’ve got little girls, I guess?”
	“No boy, don’t bother me.”
But he could not read, for the restless boy
	Whispered out, in his mother’s ear—
“I’m bein’ still—but that poor man—”
	“Sit down and don’t talk, my dear.”

He sat awhile, then his head turned back
	As a bird in its cage will do;
Gazed earnestly, slipped around, leaned o’er:
	“I am so sorry for you;
We’re going to grandpa’s to live;
	Papa is dead, and you see
I’m all mama’s got; aint you sorry,
	Mister, for mama and me?”

But we never knew what answer
	The stern man might have made,
For some one called—“Just look outside!”
	All the earth in white was laid.
The pale young mother rose with her boy
	It was time for him to sleep,
But I knew she longed to be alone
	Her burning tears to weep.

But ’twas not long ere the little hands
	Stole gently, and there outside—
To the curtain’s fringes, in open view,
	His little stocking he tied.
And O, what a look and startled thought
	Shone out in every face;
Till some cynic said “A Pullman car
	For that’s a poor kind of place.”

But a woman answered: “I don’t know—”
	And she opened her satchel wide,
Candies and cakes and a pretty knife—
	She laid them side by side;
And as the impulse ran through the car
	Each took a sudden joy
In giving out from the gifts they bore
	To the widowed mother’s boy.

The stern man folded a golden coin
	In paper and softly said:
“God bless the child, he has waked to life
	Memories that seemed dead.
I must hear his little voice again,
	I would like to know his name,
For long ago, I have known such eyes—
	Their color, and look, the same.”

The little stocking never could hold
	The gifts of women and men;
But silken handkerchiefs came forth
	And did a duty then;
The word had passed all through the train
	And passengers came in,
With smiles and gifts, to see the sight,
		[-]ad strangers been.

[Column 2]
Why was it that each one would pause
	To list the sleeper’s breath—
The little one around whose lot
	Love rose in shades of death?
And if a sigh, or oft a tear,
	Before that curtain fell,
’Twere love’s and pity’s offering,
	Sweeter than words could tell,

The early morn waked the little lad,
	And who were there but smiled—
To see the happiness love had wrought
	For the soldier’s stranger-child!
And the stern man when he asked his name
	Found sudden joy and tears,
For the little one was his brother’s child,
	Brothers, parted for years.

And he clasped him then in his strong arms,
	And the stern look fled away,
And he cried: “This is my Christmas gift!
	I’m going to grandpa’s today!”
She looked at the gifts and paler grew—
	“O, Teddy, why did you so!”
“Why Santa Claus didn’t know where I’d gone,
	And I wanted him to know.”

“Goodbye!” spoke many a smiling one,
	As they parted from the train;
But grandpa’s house was filled with joy
	For the dear ones home again.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Erda, Tooele Co., Utah, Dec., 1900.


[Column 1]
AN ALLEGORY.
	I stand on the narrow strip of land called
The Present, between the great Ocean of the
Past and the mighty Sea of the Future.
Behind me the circling waves stretch back-
ward into the fading distance of the un-
known. Before me the ripples break at my
feet, casting here and there a pebble or a
sparkling shell from the Eternal Shores.
There are great ships on the ocean behind
me, all sailing into my port of the Present;
some bear the name of Science, some of
Learning and some of Art; in most there is
the sound of pleasure and the incense of
selfish thought. How few there be that fly
the pennon of peace, and fewer still that
carry at their mast-head the Figure on the
Cross. They are laden with riches and
brightened with gold; but down, below the
decks, there are sighs and tears and helpless
creatures with no staff to lean upon. The
Captains boast of Honor and parade their
Virtues. I called these virtues up and
passed them in review before mine eyes;
Honesty led them, and Truth, which was
only Half-Truth, followed after. There
paced Sympathy and Benevolence; Mercy
and Justice were there, yet all looked some-
what queer, as if the face or vesture were
awry! I looked so carefully for Chastity;
and anon she came, but she bore a name in
her forehead, and I wondered! One half
of her was paralyzed! And then I knew
what had changed the others, for she was
mother of them all; each had inherited a
warped form, and Integrity was not their
father. Yet looking back into the mighty
past, I saw the ships bore better fruitage
than they did a thousand years ago, and I
was cheered!
	Before me lay a shell, with pink and deli-
cate tracery. I put it to mine ear and
listened! I heard the swift rush of softly
flying feet, and the sweet clamor of the
angelic multitude. ’Twas only a word
here and there that I caught, but in that
echo came insistently the sound, “Lo, the
Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
Him.” And ever and anon repeated, "He
cometh—cometh quickly!" And I looked
so eagerly at my lamp, which burned dim
and pale. The heartache of it! And then
the waves threw at my feet a smooth,
white pebble, and I took it up and cupped

[Column 2]
it in my hand. And then I saw as if in a
vision: a struggling, serious people, led by
a white-haired man; and I saw his heart and
it was pure like unto gold, and his eyes
were clear with the visions of Eternity
And he put out his hand, and the people
arose, here and there one. With one pur-
pose they came from the north, the south,
and from the west they came, yet they were
few; the choice ones of that People! And
they journeyed Eastward. With fearless
feet they walked among the plague-smitten
people of the world, and in the deserted
cities they tarried as they would. They
pitched their tents upon a mighty river, and
there grew upon its banks a great city.
Over it rested a cloud by day and a pillar of
fire by night. And I looked for the vener-
able Leader. He was there, but he had
been translated. And he talked with One,
a glorious, beautiful Man in form, whose
matchless beauty and whose kingly mien
proclaimed Him King of Kings and Lord of
Lords. Yet he walked and talked with the
people. I tried to get anear Him in the
vision, for He won my whole heart’s devo-
tion, but he turned His dazzling counten-
ance towards me, and I dropped the pebble
to cover my face with my hand, for I could
not bear the effulgence.
	The pebble was gone, the waves had
washed it away, and I stood as before,
alone on the sands of the Present, with the
Ocean of the Past behind me and the Sea
of the Future rippling at my feet.
SUSA YOUNG GATES.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORTS.
	The time has come for annual reports and
it is important that reports be sent in as soon
as possible after the close of 1900. It is not
only necessary to have Stake reports, but
wherever a Relief Society has been organized
outside Stakes, whether in the United States,
British Empire, Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland, Holland, the islands of the sea,
reports for the year 1900, from January 1
to December 31, are expected at head-
quarters.
	E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


SECRETARY LONG on December 19,
bought a residence site in Colorado Springs,
and will build a house there at once. His 
daughters who have been spending a year 
in Colorado for their health, propose to 
make the State their permanent home. May 
they vote at many more presidential
elections.—Ex.
	UTAH had some beautiful specimens of 
Utah-grown silk. There were silk hand-
kerchiefs with pictures of the Tabernacle 
and Assembly Hall in the corners, netted 
silk scarfs, and lovely soft skeins of raw 
silk in the jubilee colors, yellow, red and 
green. There were Navajo blankets made 
expressly for the Bazar, one of them worth 
a hundred dollars; Navajo rugs (the Utah 
women ordered them from an Indian 
woman in San Juan who makes them;) fine 
blankets from the Provo and Beaver mills 
pictures by Culmer and Ottinger, samples 
of gold and salt, photographs of magnificent 
Western scenery and of groups of Indians.
There were Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells’s
poems, three volumes of the Young 
Woman’s Journal, published in Salt Lake 
City, “The Wonderland of the Wild West”
	o her books.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
	ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH JANUARY 1, 1900.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR AND NEW CENTURY.
	A Happy New Year and New Century to 
all our readers and patrons and to the pub-
lic generally. Many peculiar emotions are 
awakened, and half-forgotten memories of 
long ago called up on entering, not only the 
new year, (so often done before) but the 
new century, the last of the two thousand
years since the birth of the Savior.
	Greetings from great writers, and great 
leaders, heroes, statesmen and authors have 
been sent out to the world in a spirit of love 
and good-will, and one may assume from 
this that the world is in greater harmony 
as a whole than ever before.
	It is good to pause sometimes on the ap-
proach of a given period and take one’s self
into consideration, and ascertain if possible 
how one stands toward the world as re-
gards humanity at large. Whether the 
Golden Rule is being observed or if there is 
a nearer approach to loving one’s neighbor. 
	To examine one’s own heart is good for 
us all, if we will be as exact with ourselves 
as we would be with others. We are cer-
tainly living in a wonderful age, and it be-
hooves us to do our part well in the great
program that has been prepared for the 
Latter-day dispensation.
	The prophecy of the future as we read it 
in the sacred books that have been written 
by inspired men in the different periods of 
time in the past, all point to the day in 
which we live. Already the Saints have 
accomplished much temporally in building 
Temples in which sacred rites and ordinan-
ces are being solemnized for the living and 
for the dead; and ere many decades in the 
new century have come and gone, the greater 
Temple in Jackson County will be built and 
dedicated. Meantime great events will 
transpire that will facilitate the progress of 
the work of the Church.
	Poetry, music and art are being developed 
in the highest sense, and all these as well 
as mechanism of great variety and the ut-
most perfection will be essential to complete 
the Latter-day Zion. Skilled artisans in all 
kinds of workmanship are essential to the 
building up of Zion.
	Who of the young people of today are 
preparing themselves for such positions of 
usefulness? Every advantage of higher 
education is open to those who are ambi-
tious to make themselves proficient along 
the new avenues of engineering and similar 
pursuits, which require not only specific

[Column 2]
training but common sense put to use with 
the knowledge obtained. One of the ablest 
men of the present day predicts that the 
man of this new century will be the en-
gineer.
	The construction of all great railroads,
canals, bridges, fortifications and all such 
great enterprises require the thorough work 
of the engineer. The world is to come into
closer connection by these great under-
takings. 
	The manual training now being made a
part of the curriculum of the schools and 
colleges, will assuredly give the physique,
the strength of muscle and sinew, the 
physical development such as has not been 
known heretofore; and it will be needed in 
the great problems that are being presented 
in the industrial progress of the American 
nation. Steam, electricity and dynamo are 
the agents that will be most in evidence in 
the great work yet to be executed, and 
these require skilled masters as well as 
workmen. No doubt the first quarter of a 
century will give an assurance of such 
mighty problems solved as those now living 
have never dreamed could be wrought out.
	The great reforms that have been started 
in the Nineteenth century will possibly—
yes probably—find their fulfillment in this 
new century before it is half completed; 
for instance, International Arbitration, and 
various governmental improvements which 
must necessarily follow along with the 
humanitarian views that are being agitated 
and advocated for the betterment of mankind.
	The outlook for the future is most hope-
ful when one considers the great strides that 
have already been made during the last 
half of this century in more directions than 
it is possible to name in these pages. The
light and knowledge that has come by direct 
revelation through the prophets and seers of 
these latter days, has blest the world and 
lifted up mankind far more than they are 
themselves aware of or able to appreciate
	Yet there is much to be done that will 
require almost superhuman efforts, and to 
this people particularly, who believe the 
second advent of the Savior is not far off,
there is no time to waste if the Saints are to 
be ready for His coming. The Gospel has 
not yet reached every nation, and thousands 
of Elders will yet go to foreign lands to 
proclaim the tidings of great joy to the peo-
ple that sit in darkness, that the scriptures
may be fulfilled; and the way is being 
opened up in ways of which we had not 
dreamed in the past. The Republic of 
America that guarantees religious liberty is 
extending its borders afar off, and the end 
is not yet and we venture the prediction 
that other lands will yet come under her 
flag, and without war or bloodshed, but be-
cause of the freedom and liberty vouchsafed 
under the glorious Constitution framed by 
our forefathers.


[Column 1]
SYMPOSIUM.
THE NINETEENTH AND TWENTIETH
CENTURIES.
	The nineteenth century has been fraught
with wonderful events. Our Father in
heaven and His Son Jesus Christ, appearing
before Joseph Smith and instructing him
about religion and sending Moroni to him
and delivering the ancient [-]ecord on golden
plates, from which he translated the Book
of Mormon. Also in sending Peter, James
and John to Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdery, and conferring the Holy Priest-

[Column 2]
hood upon them, and teaching them how to
organize the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and how to attain salva-
tion for the living and redemption for the
dead.
	How the Prophet Joseph, had to lay
down his precious life for the truths he had
taught.
	How about the next century? There
will be greater calamities, more sickness,
pestilence of every name and nature until
the earth will be cleaned of wickedness,
and the Gospel will be preached to every
nation, and the honest in heart gathered to
Zion, and the Center Stake built up, many
of the Lamanites converted and Jerusalem
will be rebuilt and the ten tribes will re-
turn.
	Jesus will come in the clouds of heaven
with all His holy angels, and the Saints be
caught up to meet Him.
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,

	These are my views of the century just
passed.
	I consider it the most important
and wonderful since the days of Christ. The
rapid strides which have been made in
every branch of science are marvelous to
hmman understanding. But the greatest
and most important to the whole human
family is the mission of the young prophet
Joseph Smith. When in the sincerity of his
soul he besought the Lord to show him
which of all the religious denominations was
the right one, God the Father revealed
Himself unto him with His Son, Jesus
Christ, beside Him, and told Joseph to join
himself to none of the sects then existing, as
he had a great work for him to do. The
Lord afterward opened up to his under-
standing the great plan of salvation for the
children of men, and restored the Everlast-
ing Gospel with all its power and authority.
	Especially to the government of the
United States has it been eventful and
profitable. The opening up of the Western
intermountain region, with its untold
wealth, through the influence and perse-
verance of the Latter-day Saints, has added
materially to the strength and importance
of this nation.
	The whole century has been replete with
the fulfillment of prophecies of the ancient
prophets. The signs of the times to which
the Savior referred have been vividly mani-
fested, and will become more marked dur-
ing the centuiy that is before us. The wars
and rumors of wars, the famine, flood,
pestilence and other calamities that were
promised in the latter days, are of daily oc-
currence, and are destined to continue until
the coming of the Savior to reign upon the
earth.
M. ISABELLA HORNE.

	To any Latter-day Saint the event
of the present century which eclipses
all others in importance is the restoration
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. And I be-
lieve that the early years of the coming
century will show to the whole world that
the view now taken by only a handful of
people is the correct one. It is, perhaps,
not too much to think that all will soon see
that the Gospel will bring about the uni-
versal brotherhood and the reign of peace
on earth so long foreseen by the prophets.
SARAH JENNE CANNON.

	In contemplating the great advancement
that has been made in discoveries and in-


[Column 1]
ventions of the nineteenth century, re-
markable as they are, they are not to my
mind so great as the restoration of the
Latter-day dispensation by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and turning the key for the
advancement of womankind, whereby
woman has come forth from her oppression
and stands side by side with her brother in
all the best thoughts and inspiration of the
age.
	Who can tell what the coming century
will reveal? The coming forth of the Ten
Tribes, gathering to Jackson County of the
Saints, building of the great Temple and
other important prophecies. Great men
will be inspired to invent and more impor-
tant discoveries in arts and sciences, and the
brotherhood of mankind will be more per-
fect.
		MARGARET Y. TAYLOR.

	My reply to the request for a few of my
thoughts on the events of the nineteenth
century and a prediction of what the
twentieth will unfold, must be that the
first, among many important events effecting
the present and future state of every one of
God’s creatures, is the restoration of the ful-
ness of the Gospel through the instrument-
ality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, present-
ing a plan broad enough to reach every soul
who ever has or ever shall be born upon
this earth.
	Important as is this event it has been
made possible by another of scarcely less
importance, viz., the development of this
grand government of ours, under the oper-
ation of that God-inspired instrument, the
Constitution, from a few struggling states
to the greatest nation on earth. Not only
great in numbers and wealth, but great in
her political and religious liberty, which
she has extended to the down-trodden and
oppressed of all nations. Through her
institutions woman has been placed on a
higher plane than she ever occupied before.
	The leaven of this nation has had its
effect for good upon almost all the powers,
especially Japan, which has made wonder-
ful progress in the last quarter of a century.
	An important movement already born
will doubtless gather strength during the
early part of the twentieth century, and
reach its final consummation before its close,
is the efforts being put forth by a number of
wealthy Hebrews to establish the Jews as a
nation upon the land of their fathers; and
this in fulfillment of the predictions of the
prophets.
		EMMA SMITH WOODRUFF.

	A few reflections on the passing and
coming centuries.
	Surely the one just closing has been a
wonderful and marvelous one. The many,
many great and grand incidents that have
come to pass, none of which any human
being understood,only the inspired Prophets
of God taught by His Holy Spirit long be-
fore our Era, looking down through the
vista of time predicted what would and has
come to pass in the last days, and has been
ushered in during the past century, even of
the revelation of the Gospel in its purity,
and a prophet being raised up, to which we
can testify.
	The establishment of the kingdom of
God, the coming forth of the Book of
Mormon, and how the Prophet Nahum pre-
dicted of the railroads being builded in the
day of the Lord’s preparation. And how
could those who had obeyed the Gospel in
distant parts or lands have been gathered to-

[Column 2]
gether as they have been had not these
prophecies been fulfilled. Abundant are
the reflections that might be written but
space will not permit.
	Of the coming century even far greater
and mightier events are expected, but it
would take a prophet or seer to determine
what they will be.
		ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON.

	The nineteenth century is drawing to a
close, and as we take a retrospective view
of the great and wonderful events that have
transpired since its commencement, the re-
flecting mind is struck with awe and
wonder at the improvement that has been
made in the step toward perfection of the
various arts and sciences, literature, music
and all other branches of education that
have been developed for the benefit and
progress of humanity.
	One of the great events that has tran-
spired in this century was the War of the
Rebellion, and the freedom of the colored
race from the bondage of slavery; also the
enfranchisement of women in various parts
of the land, whereby they have been en-
abled to enlarge and develop their oppor-
tunities of doing more good in many ways
for the improvement and advancement of
their sex and the world.
	The establishing of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ once more upon the earth in its ful-
ness and purity for the salvation and re-
demption of the human family by our
Heavenly Father, and the rearing up of a
prophet, an inspired man of God to assist
Him in the great and glorious work. The
Gospel is being preached to the nations of
the earth by our faithful missionaries.
Prophecies of both ancient and modern
prophets are being fulfilled concer ningwhat
should transpire in the latter days.
	The recent war in Cuba and the Philip-
pines is not to be passed over lightly,
neither the tearing down of the famous
Chinese wall and the entrance of troops into
China, as it has been hitherto thought
impossible. Disasters of almost every
known nature have been poured out upon
the land, and various other things of great
magnitude that have transpired in the
present century.
	And now a new era is about to dawn
upon the world; another century is about to
be ushered in, and no doubt greater and
mightier events will transpire in the future.
He above, who reigns in the heavens and
controls the destinies of His children upon
the earth, knows the extent thereof.
	But let the Saints prepare themselves for
another great event, which we believe is
near at hand, even the coming of our Lord
and Savior Jesus Christ, when the glorious
Millennial reign of Peace and Rest will be
ushered in perhaps in the twentieth
century.
			MARIA W. WILCOX.

	The signs of the times are fraught wtih
deep interest to the Latter-day Saints. We
see the fulfillment of many prophecies of
the prophets in both ancient and modern
times. In my soul I heartily endorse the
sentiments expressed and the testimonies
borne by our prophets, seers and revelators,
the Watchmen upon the walls of Zion, who
are ever alert, whose voices are ever heard
in defence of the revelations given through
Joseph Smith, the Prophet, to this gener-
ation, for the uplifting and redemption of
the whole race of mankind, both the living
and the dead. Since the year 1885 my life

[Column 3]
work has been in the Temples of God. I
have had great joy in my labors. The
Prophet Joseph declared this to be the
most important work the Latter-day
Saints could be engaged in.
	I do indeed feel proud of the distinction
of being chosen as a bosom companion of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. That I am a
living witness of his divine mission and I
bear testimony to all the world that the
foundation of the everlasting hills are not
more firmly set or established than the
knowledge I have received, or the witness
that has been given me of the spirit, con-
cerning the divine origin of the great
Latter-day work.
	May the new century bring peace, joy
and happiness to all seekers after truth.
			LUCY W. KIMBALL.

	In summing up the many wonderful
events of the marvelous nineteenth century
now closing, every Latter-day Saint will
instinctively place as the leading headlight
in the list, the birth, mission and death of
Joseph Smith.
	When his work on earth was completed,
the Prophet Joseph, sealed his testimony
with his blood, as did Christ and many of
His disciples anciently. But in this century
the light of the Gospel of Jesus Christ was
ushered in to remain and continue to in-
crease forever.
	Joseph proclaimed the utmost freedom for
all men; and following his appeal for uni-
versal liberty, slavery was abolished in the
United States of America. At a fearful
cost, it is true; but had the government
listened to the inspired words of the young
prophet, it need not have cost one drop of
blood, nor a tithe of the money expended.
	He declared when he organized the
Sisterhood of the Church into the Relief
Society, that he “turned the key in favor of
woman.” Since that time what a noble
work has been accomplished in woman’s
favor by hundreds of heroic women in this
and other nations, including many of the
Society which the Prophet organized.
	With the progress of light darkness has
wildly striven to keep pace, or out do. But
on the 6th of April, 1893, an advance step
was taken by the over-ruling power of light,
which will never be quite approached by
the shadow of darkness.
	At that time the Prophet Wilford Wood-
ruff declared that the key was turned in
favor of the Saints, and was in the hand of
Jesus Christ; and that from that time
righteousness would have greater power
and wickedness less in the world. With
this proposition in view, what may we not
anticipate for the coming twentieth century?
To be brief, ere its close, Satan may be
securely bound and Christ may reign over
the earth.
	LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.

	Two centuries—what shall I say of them,
the passing away and the new birth ?
	To one whose life is centered in the hap-
piness and well being of the children of the
Saints, it seems but natural that whatever
has happened in the past, or may happen in
the future, our little ones must of necessity
be the center from which and towards which
what thoughts I have at this particular
time ebb and flow.
	So many changes have come to pass in
our actions toward children and in our
methods in rearing and training, that much
might be said or written about them.
	We have much to be grateful for to


[Column 1]
Pestalozzi and Froebel and many others
who have filled our own and our children’s
lives with pleasures and experiences of
object lessons, and the Kindergarten, with
its many beautiful phases, none of which
appeal more strongly than the pleasures of
“learning by doing.”
	Among us, as a people, we feel that much
has been accomplished and that the path
lies very bright before us for the progress
and advancement of the future, and that
this is made possible through the restora-
tion of the Gospel during the past century,
and through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
who opened the door for woman.
	And now where are the limitations of
woman’s progress and improvement? And
as the care of children is woman’s special
charge, the new century will see much ad-
vancement and many things which today
are in the experimental stage will be proven
and tested, and whatever is unworthy will
be cast out. For however much may be
said of the present wickedness of the world,
with the education of our children in the
care of that sex which has always, and will
still maintain the chastity and virtue of the
race, with the possibilities of the newer
education added to those long inherited
qualities, the race of men will grow and in-
crease in the virtues and graces of life, as
well as in intelligence and power.
LOUIE B. FELT.

	The nineteenth century may be called the
century of Liberty and Light.
	Although the announcement of the birth
of Liberty was in 1776, it was scarcely en-
throned until the nineteenth century.
	On the soil of Liberty the intellect of
men and women was encouraged, protected
and permitted to unfold and increase in the
arts and sciences ornamental and practical.
Steam in all its possibilities was developed
and shot forth on rivers and seas, making
the nations neighbors.
	The wonders of electricity are lighting
and linking the whole world by its mighty
and various powers. The inimitable Light
of Truth in all its effulgence of authority
and power descended from heaven and
planted its feet on earth no more to be
overcome and flee, but to overcome all evil
and bring gradually all good men and
women into the perfect life. Slavery lifted
its Medusa head in the South, but
Liberty enthroned in the North gave forth
the edict for it to depart and it fled the land.
	Tyranny in Cuba with its mailed hand
was striking terror and death over all its
fair land till Liberty could no longer shut
the hideous sight from her eyes nor close
her ears to the cry of the oppressed, and
she thundered Halt to Spain, the oppressor,
and with swift showers of shot and shell
(the only available language to convince
her of her errors) quickly shattered her
chains of bondage. Cuba, Porto Rico and
the Phillipines, will now enjoy the
blessings of Liberty, so soon as the benighted
minds of her inhabitants can perceive the
great boon offered them.
	The harpoons of the natives have been
firmly fastened in the dreadful soul-
devouring Dragon, China, where tyranny
and oppression have reached the climax,
and its door will be thrown wide open for
the ingress of light, law and civilization, the
forerunners of the establishment of truth.
The British lion has laid his paw on unpro-
gressive Africa for the same purpose.
	In view of these great beginnings of
the nineteenth century what developments

[Column 2]
shall we look for in the twentieth?
	Turkey will be plucked and prepared for
the feast of law and order. The helpless,
the needy, the down-trodden and oppressed
of all nations will be fed, comforted and
instructed and lifted up into light, law,
civilization and truth, in fact, a great ad-
vance towards, if not the accomplishment
will be achieved on the earth of the
Fatherhood and Motherhood of God and
the Brotherhood of men.
ROMANIA B. PRATT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


70	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WHAT HATH THE CENTURY WROUGHT
	If the question were asked, what has
been the most remarkable development of
the Nineteenth Century, a number of
answers might be given.
	The scientist would point to the magnifi-
cent records of medicine, of steam, of
electricity, of all the mechanical devices and
discoveries.
	The artist would refer you to the rejuven-
ation made in music, painting, literature
and in all the arts which made Greece sole
mistress of the world for centuries.
	The religionist would quote any one of
the great revivals, or perhaps would point
to the intense expressions of materalism on
the one hand, and spiritism on the other.
	Each and all would choose a different
phase of the many-sided Progress in this
passing century, which is as varied as the
natures, occupations and dispositions of
men who have taken part therein.
	If a being from some other sphere, whose
vision had been clarified through absence
of time-limits were asked to answer this
question, his answer, based on the superior-
ity of men to things, would be—the most
wonderful feature of the past century is the
development of the individuality of man.
	Men there have been; individuals have al-
ways arisen here and there on the horizon
of history; but men have been lumped to-
gether, as it were; the nations have hereto-
fore been forcibly classified. The shot at
Lexington tore away the constructing bands
of all previous tradition, and man stood
there alone, each one classifying himself
forever more.
	In primitive conditions men were all indi-
viduals; but as social expression became
necessary men found it expedient to invest
united authority in one or more of their
number. That moment there began the
monarchical form of social life, in which
the man gradually lost identity and the
government rested in the hands of the few.
	With varying forms, this type of life con-
tinued down to the close of the 18th cen-
tury
	Sporadic forms of individuality existed, it
is true, but usually they appeared in law-
less or barbaric life.
	It is not the purpose of this writing to
inquire into the prehistoric or spiritual
causes of such facts as have been stated,
but to group about this premise some ex-
planations and deductions, and to add a
forecast of the near future.
	Consider for a moment what conditions
surrounded the man born into monarchical
life. He was, as a child, environed with a
chain of circumstances which held him with
deathless power. If he were born into a
palace, or on the steps of a throne, he could
have no choice, except between being a
good or bad monarch. All the teachings
and arts of courtiers might portray to him the
unexcelled grandeur and splendor of his

[Column 2]
future; but if he were an artist, a cook or a
carpenter by nature, nothing could be done
for him except to fit him up a playhouse for
his rare leisure moments. Not even his
heart could dictate his marital relations, in
legality. The woman he longed to crown
might be a scullery maid, and the eloquence
of the kingdom might supplement the
teachings and traditions of his youth, while
a dozen utterly disinterested men canvassed
neighboring kingdoms to select the woman
best fitted, politically and strategically
for his consort. One thing he could al-
ways resort to, to relieve the pressure of re-
straint upon his will, he could be wicked or
spiteful, or both.
	Pass down through the various positions,
classes and degrees, until the street gamin
is reached, each, the nobleman’s son, the
merchant’s heir, the child of the tradesman,
the offspring of the day laborer, each was
held closely in the circle into which he was
born by environment, by education and by
tradition.
	One thing each one could do, sink to the
level below him, or down and down till
disgrace and death closed the scene. But
none could go higher, except in rare and
peculiar cases; and these exceptions but ac-
centuated the rule.
	There were exceptions; but where the
individual, through accident or design, suc-
ceeded in reaching a higher class, he was
absorbed into the upper class, and he must
perforce sever all connection with his own
class, no matter at what cost to himself or
to his former associates.
	All these conditions are familiar to the
student of history, and indeed, they exist
today, in such governments as still per-
petuate the monarchical forms.
	No man in Europe says who shall be his
next Sovereign. Nor do they in any
measure, except in France, Switzerland and
England, dictate the policies of their
countries; and in France, in England and
in Switzerland it is the classes which hold
the partial franchise and even then the
power is limited and the choice restricted.
	American independence gives not alone
the power to vote for this man or that, for this
policy or that. The ethical foundation upon
which that right rests is the most precious
gift ever given to man; it is the right of
choice, limitless, boundless.
	A man under this flag may vote or not
vote; he may be a plunger in the Stock-
market or a bootblack on the street. He
may be the ruler of the country, or a tramp.
	If he moves above his youthful conditions
into a wealthier or more cultured class,
there is no reason why his family and
relatives shall not accompany him, if they
comply with the same conditions.
	He may do or not do, he has every human
choice offered him, and the only limit is his
capacity and his will. In other words, he
makes his own environments; in the 
European countries, his environments make
him.
	With this understanding, let us approach
another phase of this subject, and consider
it well.
	When men faced the enemy at Lexington
there were those within the distant cottages
of the village, who melted the lead and
ran into molds the deadly missilles which
gave the final expression to revolt from
tyranny and classification.
	These were women! 
	When she saw, that wife, that mother,
what her husband and sons had wrought;
when she beheld the shackles which had


[Column 1]
bound them to tradition, to classification
and to oppression, stricken from the manly
wrists; when she saw them awaken as from
a long sleep and grasp the reins of self-
government, free, free as divinity itself;
free to choose and the whole world to
choose from, she looked down at her own
slender hands and found them bound by a
far more delicate and ethereal band, but
none the less, bound!
	There came in the early part of this cen-
tury, born just at its dawn, just after the
smoke of the Lexington cannonading had
cleared entirely away, a young prophet into
the midst of men, and he taught them that
government was harmony with law; that
the only free soul is the one which is in tune
with the universe. Disobedience or inhar-
mony is slavery; yet obedience must
rest wholly and solely on the free agency of
man.
	It was a doctrine taught by Jesus to His
apostles, and retaught by Him to the
courageous young prophet.
	The soul of the young man hung upon
the altar of revelation.
	As he looked about the world he felt the
hem of his garment drawn away, and he
turned about; it was his mother, his wife,
his sister who held out to him in wordless
entreaty their delicately manacled wrists.
	He saw what other men could not see,
and his heart was moved within him; he and
his brothers had but late borne a similar
chain.
	With a smile he turned and said gently:
	“Here is the key; unloose thy bands.”
	What help he could he gave. But his
own life was hunted and driven, and at
last he was slain for his testimony.
	The revolutionary flag which was flung
to ‘the breeze starred and striped with
Freedom’s insignia, gave man his political
right; the fearless prophet voice whose
echoes even now are rapidly encircling the
globe—sounded in men’s ears spiritual
freedom; and as the very keynote of that
universal human right was sex freedom,
authority of choice, vested not in a few men
nor even in men alone, but in each one
alike, regardless of creed, color or sex.
	From the hour the key was given, great
and restless activity has marked every
phase of womanly life. One by one barriers
have been swept down and obstructions
cleared away. Here and there individuals
have, broken from the ranks, and have
created momentary confusion and trouble
through recklessness and lack of wisdom;
but the battle has been steadily on. Not
with powder and shell, not with beating
drum and flying flag; but with the subtle
weapons of the spirit, the warfare has been
waged.
	And what mighty generals have led the
forces—Eliza R. Snow, Susan B. Anthony,
Emma Smith, Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Mary A. Livermore, Sarah M. Kimball
Margaret T. Smoot and Lucy Stone.
	It is incumbant on the student of these
problems to deduct from them some spiritual
conclusion.
	First: men have achieved, for the first
time in the world’s history, absolute right
of choice within the last century. The
awakening came at the close of the former
century, and the close of this sees the grand
accomplished fact.
	Woman received the key to her individu-
ality in the first part of this century, a little
behind her brother in that awakening,
consequently a little behind in the accom-
plishment of the whole purpose. 

[Column 2]
What humanity has received from the
freedom of man, will be doubled in extent
when the freedom of woman is as thorough-
ly established in even this one country.
	The right of choice!
	The right to do or not to do; to choose
any occupation, climate or companion. The
right to ascend, as well as the unhappy
power to descend in the scale of existence.
The precious right of a voice at the ballot,
and the no less precious power to choose
her traditional place in society or to reject it
if she will.
	When woman has acheived her per-
fect liberty, she will choose to be tender,
gentle, intuitional, and, in a word, woman-
ly; she will eschew too active public life,
and she will esteem her natural sphere as
godlike and perfect. But she must be al-
lowed to elect this herself, not be man or
men or even other women, say she ought or
she shall. She will possess and exercise in
full her heaven-ordained right of choice.
Then will come, in this beautiful (20th)
century, whose dawn purples all the hills of
progress, the ideal woman side by side with
the ideal man. She is very near, and be-
side her stands the Mighty One, who died
to redeem all mankind.
	Two notes must be sounded at the close
of this brief exposition: let all men and all
women guard carefully word and thought
when dealing in any wise with the subtle
warfare. For a word may hasten, an act re-
tard, the coming of the ideal. So, too, must
the hand which has been set to the plough,
not weaken in its grasp. Onward! no mat-
ter what be the obstructions.
	The last word of caution is to that eager
restless woman-heart, which sent to spy out
the land of Caanan, and intoxicated with
the beauty and glory of it all, grows reck-
less in her advice to the home army, and
would sweep away and trample down every
opposing force. There is a new element in
our spiritual evolution; even as this sex-
battle is ethereal and indefinable instead of
being waged with arrows or lead, so in our
earth history we have grown away from
retaliation and force. Not bullets with
smiles, not forts but firesides, not revenge
but love, not to force our way but to win it,
this is the inscription on the key which was
put into the woman’s hands over half a
century ago.
	Therefore, the sum of all science, of all
art, of all religion is the development of
man; and out of the ashes of this dead cen-
tury there rises a pure spirit of Progress
which paces towards us, not as man alone
in deified form and mien, nor as woman
alone elevated by sentiment or selfishness;
but side by side they come, the ideal man
and the ideal woman of the (20th) century,
content, smiling, glorified!
					HOMESPUN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
	One old lady whom we had not invited
as soon as she learned what was being
done, donned her finest white robe and
made her appearance. I received her as I
did the invited guests, knowing she was
ignorant of our customs. The natives
from far and near thronged the house,
looking in at the windows to admire the
decorations. I felt annoyed and asked the
chief if he would tell them to go away.
He plead for them as a father would for his
children. They had never seen anything

[Column 2]
of that kind before and he wished me to
indulge them for once, another time they
should be sent away. I felt that he was
right and consented to let them feast their
eyes as long as they would.
	After dinner we held a prayer meeting,
and at evening illuminated the house with
all the glass lamps in the village. The
brilliant lights threw over all a mantle of
romance, exceeding anything I had ever
seen. Brother Crosby and Ellen made the
instrumental music, and added to the sweet
melody of human voices made it seem in
reality like a birthday of the beloved
Savior.
	Here, now in December, the heat is ex-
cessive. It is the first time I have suffered
with it. Frances, I discover, is getting
uneasy. I pray that the way may appear
for us to return home, lest our daughters
become unhappy.
	The 28th. After returning from the
Sabbath morning service I was sent for in
great haste. Sister Grouard was taken
suddenly with a severe chill. She was
exercised in a singular manner. The
natives exclaimed, “Tupau pau,” (That is
an evil spirit.) In vain I remonstrated;
told them she had taken a cold, it was an
ague chill. They said I was “maro,” that
is stubborn and hard to believe. As the
chill left her they let down the curtains to
dress her. A native sister whispered,
“Look you under the curtains and see the
spirit when it comes out.” So great is
their supersition. The sick woman got out
of bed with a high fever, a little wondering
in mind. They eyed her very closely and
thought they saw the devil. She is fast
recovering.
	There is another sick woman sinking
every day. She is in the bloom of life and
has six children. O, gladly would I save
her. She is surrounded by unbelievers in
the ordinances of the Gospel, even in the
same house. It is hard to have faith then.
I regret we were not supplied with simple
medicines when she left home.
	January 1, 1852. New Years we cele-
brated by making another feast. We dec-
orated Brother Crosby’s house, made it
white with coral lime, “Te fau nehe whe te
fare no yo nu tuna.”
	Many of the natives were invited and
seated at the tables. There were five
tables set for seventeen. They improve a
little each time. The outside of the house
was surrounded by the poor, uncouth
beings. It is a trial to bear with their
extreme ignorance, still a little pleasure to
amuse them. They will gaze for a half
hour at a picture, and you must answer
forty questions concerning it. They must
know the history entire or not be satisfied.
We all agree in wishing our friends in Salt
Lake a happy New Year. We trust they
are wishing us the same. On these oc-
casions we dress ourselves in a becoming
and tasteful manner, ornament our rooms
as we would to receive fashionable and re-
fined company, all for the purpose of ex-
ample, that they may understand our cus-
toms and to stimulate them to imitation
and improvement. Twice today we
thought we heard the cry of “Pakiia hoi,”
(ship coming), but were disappointed. The
children’s ears are open now and will be
till the Ravai comes into port. We shall
watch to see her tall masts and white sails
reeling in the strong breeze, which now
blows fair for Tubuai. There is no other
hope of again being relieved of monotany
but the return of the vessel. I have been


toiling all the morning cleaning my door-
yard. I often do such things to encourage
the native women to clean theirs. They
will pass along complimenting me in this
way. “e hara! Pa ruita va hine foa nehe nehe
aua! They seem to think all the little
nice habits belong exclusively to the
Europeans A few there are who have
imitation large Such if they had courage
to excel would do well, but it is no trait of
a native to be above his fellows. With
this people there is little division or dis-
tinction, even those who do not belong to
the Church must be treated as brethren.
	Today the Elders broke bread. The
brethren came from the other village.
Brother Alexander called after the close of
the services, and talked of his trouble with
his native wife. She is a childish girl, it
is evident she does not love him. What a
pity that sensible men should involve them-
selves with these poor ignorant women.
They cannot bring them to their level, it is
unwise to attempt it. To be comfortable
with them they must descend to their level.
	The 5th day. Head winds, no prospect
of the ship coming in tomorrow, we shall
go to Mahu for a few days. Walked to the
village, a distance of five miles, wind very
high, did not feel fatigued. Made the
the village at twelve, visited and went to
see the sick woman. She was laying on a
mat spread upon the ground, a hard pil-
low for her head. I saw she was dyimg,
her feet and hands were cold. Her hus-
band was leaning over her, apparently the
only mourner. I felt distressed to see no
one doing anything for her relief. I ordered
chicken broth, which she took easily. I
heated rocks and applied to her hands and
feet. I saw they were expecting her to
die, and so sat idly down to await the
event. A large pile of cloths lay near her,
brought to wrap her in, as their custom is
when one dies. She spoke distinctly
several times, had her reason well, seemed
calm and resigned.

	The bell was rung and the children
called together. I organized them into a
class and taught them to translate Tahitian
words into English, to count and reckon—
nearly anything for employment is better
than idleness. The white children amuse
themselves rambling about and gathering
flowers. They go often to the bathing
places. I cannot be contented without
business and company. Anything like
employment I grasp with eagerness. This
is a silent place, no noise but the rumbling,
roaring old waves of the sea.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St. Salt Lake City.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.						TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ing s accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . , . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 Wes
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. ECCLES,	D E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. A & T.


[column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	FRIENDSHIP, says Robert Hall, is the
cordial of life.

	No man is so ready for a quarrel with
another as he who has a quarrel with him-
self.

	THE difference between the sound of
[column 2]
wedding bells and a decree of divorce—the
first is a marriage peal and the second a 
marriage repeal.

	AN old lady once remarked that she had
"often heard of men being struck with a 
happy thought, but had never been able to
find out where it hit them."

	THE  National Suffrage Bazar cleared
about $7,000 instead of $6,000, as at first
reported. The supplementary sale at
Philadelphia netted $317, and some goods
are still on hand.

	MADAME BEROSTHORN, wife of the
Austrian charge d' affaires at Pekin, has
been given the cross of the Legion of 
Honor for her heroic conduct and her as-
sistance to the French during the siege of
the legation. Only one other foreign 
woman has been thus decorated—Maria
Schellenck, a Belgian woman who dis-
guised herself as a man and joined Napo-
leon's army as a private soldier. She be-
came a corporal, a sergeant and then a 
lieutenant. She served seventeen years,
went through twelve campaigns, and was
eight times wounded. Napoleon decorated
her personally in 1808.

	MRS. CAROLINE M. SEVERANCE, one
of the pioneers who could not be present in
person at the Suffrage Bazar, was repre-
sented by a quantity of beautiful plumes of
pampas grass, which she sent from her 
home in Los Angeles to the Lucy Stone
booth.

	A PRETTY Irish servant maid who had
got married, called to see her mistress. "I
hear that you are going to Australia with 
your husband, Kitty," said the lady. "Are
you not afraid of such a long voyage?"
"Well, ma'am, that's his look-out." said
Kitty. "I belong to him now, an' if any-
thing happens to me, shure it'l be his 
loss, not mine."

	UTAH'S doll was presented, not by the
Governor's wife, but by the Governor.
Gov. Wells is a widower, and the Salt Lake 
ladies felt a delicacy about asking him for
a doll; but he somehow heard of the fact
that governor's wives in the different
States were giving dolls to the Suffrage
Bazar, and he at once appointed a com-
mittee of six women to go out and buy the
handsomest doll to be found in the city.
There she was at the Utah booth, looking
quite bridal in her white laces, and none
the less elegantly attired because the
women who dressed her were voters.—Ex.


THE GENERATIONS.

Dust unto dust, ’twas decreed at the first,
O, mortality, turn thou to clay! 
But a dazzling splendor ere long will burst,
Where has flourished but death and decay.

Proudly monarchs have sat since long ago,
On the nation’s imperial throne;
Royal scepters have swayed their hearts aglow,
Empires of earth, seeming all their own.


They’ve played their part, good or ill on life’s
	   stage,
	Have tasted the sweets of earthly power;
Have measured the world by their human gauge,
	Then life is over, brief as an hour.

Voiceless the dust for long ages has slept,
	Been borne on the air or ocean’s foam,
To sounding caverns has secretly crept,
	Where waves are singing a ceaseless moan.

O, this home of kings of their grandeur shorn!
	On a level all who enter here;
No thrones of gold has this realm ever known,
	Nor subjects knees bent in trembling fear.

The Omnipotent One is king o’er all.
	His sceptre must rule supreme, alone,
And this sleeping world soon must hear His call
	To judgment, before the Great White Throne.
							Lydia D. Alder.
Stratford, England, Nov., 1900.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 29
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15 & FEBRUARY 1, 1901. Nos. 16 & 17


The Great and Good Queen Victoria...Editor 73
Great in Small Things..............R.A.S. 73
Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting. .C. S. Williams 74
Visit in St. George Stake. ...Ann C. Woobury 74
A Tribute of Love............... E.B.W. 75
Notes and News............................ 75
A Word of Love and Greeting................ 77
R. S. and P. A. Reports...................77
Obituary................................... 78
New Hall Dedicated..............J.N.Price 78
Oneida S ake...........................................................78
EDITORIAL-Some Happenings of the New Year 76
 National Live Stock Convention............ 77
Poetry—The New Century... J. B. Hartswick 73
The Poet...........................Selected 55


THE NEW CENTURY.

When in the dim, gray East shall rise,
	The morning of the birth—
When thy first dawn steps from the skies
	Upon the hills of earth—
Shall waiting nations breathless stand
	Oppressed with haunting fears,
Of what thou holdest in thy hand, 
	Thou coming Hundred Years.

Or shall a glad world welcome thee
	With laughter and a song
Thou unborn child of Destiny—
	Whose reign shall be so long ?
Who knows !—we only know that thou
	Shalt enter like a king
Into thy courts,—that we must bow,
	Whatever thou dost bring.

What matter whether war or peace
	Thy heralds shall proclaim—
The story of the centuries
	Is evermore the same !
Thy children-years shall tell abroad,
	Through all thy mighty span,
Naught but the Fatherhood of God—  
	The Brotherhood of Man.

JENNIE BETTS HARTSWICK.


[Column 1]
THE GREAT AND GOOD QUEEN VICTORIA. 	

The death of Queen Victoria has caused
not only sincere sorrow and deep and heart-
felt mourning in Great Britain, but there is
a universal feeling in all the civilized world
that the greatest sovereign of her time has
departed. In fact she is spoken of as the
greatest without making comparisons. Not
only queen of Great Britain and Ireland,
and colonies attached thereto, but Empress
of India. Her life reads like a fable almost,
so grand have been her virtues and so
numerous the honors that have come to her
unsought by herself. So magnificently has
she reigned that it has been hard for those
who envied her (and indeed they were few)
to find any grounds of complaint either in
her public or private life, and her name will
go down through the ages as the good, pure
and true Queen Victoria. This is the more
remarkable when one considers how very
long her reign has been, longer than any
other king or queen who has sat upon the
British throne.
	The reading public are everywhere in-
formed that her death occurred at Osborne
House, on the Isle of Wight, January 22,
6:30 a. m. The Prince of Wales dispatch to
the Lord-Mayor of London reads:
	“My beloved mother has just passed away
surrounded by her children and grandchildren.
(Signed) Albert Edward. 
The Lord-Mayor’s reply was.
“Your Imperial Highness’ telegram an-

[Column 2]
nouncing the nations great loss I have re-
ceived with profound distress and grief, and
have communicated this most sad intimation
to my fellow citizens. Her majesty’s name
and memory will forever live in the hearts of
her people.
	“May I respectfully convey to your royal
highness and to all members of the royal
family the earnest sympathy and condolence
of the city of London in your great sorrow.”
	The queen is said to have bade farewell in
a feeble monosyllable to her family assembled
at her bedside at mid-day. She first recog-
nized the Prince of Wales to whom she
spoke a few words of great moment; then
Emperor William and the others present filed
past and heard a whispered good bye. All
those in the bedroom were in tears.
	Volumes might and will undoubtedly be
written of this celebrated sovereign and most
excellent woman; but nevertheless in a great
kingdom like the British Empire order must
be preserved, and therefore another monarch,
even though he be bowed in grief, must be
proclaimed, and the regular routine observed.
	“London, January 23, 1 p. m. The King
Emperor entered his capital at 12:55 and pro-
ceeded to Marlborough House where at the
meeting of the privy council the king took
the title of Edward VII, king of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and
emperor of India.
	After attending the first privy council at St.
James palace, at 2 p. m., when a decision will
be reached regarding the public proclamation
of his accession, which, it is expected, will be
read tomorrow at 10 a. m., his majesty will
proceed to the house of lords for the meeting
of parliament.
	London has donned a garb of mourning
from end to end and an early hour found a
thick fog enveloping the city like a pall, a
fitting accompaniment of the funeral apparel
of every one. Throughout the west end
drawn blinds are the order of the day, while
on all the embassies, government offices and
public buildings the flags are half-masted. The
law courts, the stock exchange and all the
produce and metal exchanges throughout the
country only assemble to close immediately
after the presiding officers had addressed to
the members a few words of tribute to the
dead monarch.”
 			*	*	*
	In the throne room at the St James palace
a gathering of great men, cabinet ministers,
press commoners, Bishops, Judges, the Lord-
Mayor, etc., including the Duke of York,
the Duke of Connaught and lesser members.
of the royal family, Lord Salisbury, Lord
Rosebury, A. J. Balfour, the Duke of
Devonshire, Lord Strathcona and Mount-
Royal and prominent personages to see the
king take the formal oath, binding him to
govern the kingdom according to law and
customs, and hear him assume the title of
King Edward VII. of Great Britain and
Ireland and Emperor of India. The cere-
mony was according to precedent. The Duke
of Devonshire, Lord-President of the
Council, formally communicated the death of
Queen Victoria and the succession of her
son, the Prince of Wales.
	The Lord Chancellor, Lord Halsbury, ad-

[Column 3]
ministered the oath to the king, afterwards to
the various members of the Council, com-
mencing with the Lords in Council, took the
oath of allegiance and passed in turn before 
his majesty, as at a levee, excepting that each
paused and kissed the king’s hand before
passing out.”
	The King was lustily cheered as he drove
to Marlborough House, the crowd was im-
mense. Opposite the house gates a tall
gentleman raised his hat and shouted “Long
live the king,” when the crowd cheered more
loudly than ever. The king wore a military,
uniform at the ceremonies and his speech was
brief and extemporaneous.
	The proclamation of the accession of His
Majesty was signed by the princes present,
first Duke of York, the Duke of Connaught,
the Duke of Cambridge, Prince Christian,
the Arch-Bishop of Canterbury, the Lord-
Chancellor, the Lord-Mayor and the other
representatives of the city of London.
	At 4:30 p. m. the artillery began firing
salutes in St. James park to signalize King
Edward’s accession to the throne. There
were many other public testimonials of this
royal event.
The sympathy of all nations with the peo-
ple of Great Britain in the death of their
Queen is very apparent by the marks of pub-
lic respect and reverence, business suspended
and flags at half-mast, telegrams from all
nationalities announce the fact, of the love in
which she was held and eulogies of her good-
ness and popularity fill the papers of every
land.
	When the Pope received the news of the
Queen’s death, he dropped on his knees to
pray, remaining several minutes in that atti-
tude. He gave orders that in all the churches
prayers for her majesty be offered the follow-
ing day.
								Editor.


GREAT IN SMALL THINGS.
HOW TO FORGIVE.
Keep the picture of Christ being crucified 
before you, remember these words "Father 
forgive tbem, for they know not what they 
do," or if you have been injured, you know
that you are happier than they who have
wronged you, for it is better to suffer 
wrong than to do wrong. If you were 
acquainted with the circumstances that in-
duced this person to do wrong, you would
undoubtedly say, "I am afraid that I could 
not have done so well had I been in his 
place." Tender him your sympathy and 
be thankful that you are stronger-minded 
and able to combat with temptation better
than he or she, or you have received the 
light of the Gospel, which he has not.
Criticising and finding fault will have its 
effect. When you meet that person again,
whom you have spoken against, there is a 
feeling of dislike, not love or leniency,
which we should have had.
We are all God's children, with all our 
faults and failings, and very liable to yield 
to temptation. If we are not able to do a 
great work, can we not do good in little 
things? always having leniency one with 
another, selecting the good from a person's


character and letting the bad alone; filling
our lives with so much good that the evil
will have no place whatever. By doing
this it will be said of us, as of all good peo-
ple, “I like to be with them, it does me
good, I feel better and happier in their
company, they exert a good influence.”
	‘‘Judge not that ye be not judged.”
Leave it to a higher Judge who is better
able than we are to know how to judge.
Our religion is broad and by studying these
principles of our religion we can become
great in small things. Our influence will
be felt wherever we go, we will be loved
because we have charity and live for others

			A GOOD WOMAN.

	One who on her bed of sickness was, as
she always had been, thinking of others,
had learned that an old book keeper was
out of employment, which worried her.
The Elders were called in to administer to
her. After they had gone, she said, “I am
so sorry, but I was feeling so bad while
they were here that I forgot to ask them if
they could give this brother employment.”
	The second time when they were called
in she thought of it. The employment was
not found but it was taken under advise-
ment and the brother was helped.
	She would also mention some good that
others had done her, which they undoubted-
ly had forgotten. She could most likely
have found a great deal of evil to say of
them had she been looking for it.
	Love begets love, and this was the dis-
position of this good woman, this true Saint
of God, who had all her life been gentle,
kind, sympathetic and forgiving, even to
those who had been thoughtless. Her life
was a lesson to all those who came in con-
tact with her, and they must have felt the
sweet influence of the spirit of meekness
and forbearance. To do good to others was
ever her motto in life. She has passed from
our midst, but her memory is still fresh and
green in the hearts of her children and
grandchildren and all her family, and she
will always be held in honorable remem-
brance among neighbors and friends.
	‘‘Blessed are the dead who die in the
Lord from henceforth, for their works shall
follow them.”
							R. A. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE. 
	Sister Morris and I left St. George with
the missionaries, Brothers William Stirling
and Oscar Bentley, to visit the settlements
south of St. George, November 9, 1900.
We reached Littlefield that evening and
held meeting with the Primary Association,
presided over by Sister Hannah Iverson.
This settlement is a corner of Arizona. We
go on about ten or fifteen miles and find
ourselves in Nevada.
	On the 10th we reached Bunkerville. We
held a meeting with the Primary, Sister
Harriet M. Earl (who is very efficient) pre-
siding. 	We were entertained at Bishop
Edward Bunker’s, who informed us that he
had raised 8,400 pounds of seedless dried
grapes from three acres of land. 	It shows
us what can be done by a systematic way
of working.	Bishop Bunker went, to Cali-
fornia and learned what he could in regard
to raising grapes.
	Sunday morning we met with the Sab-
bath School.	 After the exercises Brother
Stirling talked on the first principles of the
Gospel, followed by Brother Bentley. After


the afternoon meeting we met with the
Relief Society. Read the circular letter in
regard to building a house to hold our
General Conference in, in Salt Lake City.
There was a ready response to it. The
sisters feel to serve the Lord, observe the
Word of Wisdom, pay their tithes and
offerings, attend their prayers and teach
their children to pray.
On the 12th we traveled over to St.
Joseph and held a meeting in the evening.
I believe all the people of the settlement
were there. The brethren gave them the
Gospel in its purity. We had a good time.
On the 13th we went to Overton. We
held a meeting in the forenoon for the people,
in the afternoon for the Relief Society. The
Bishop met with us and we filled vacancies
in the Relief Society and Primary.
On the 14th we went on to St. Thomas,
visited among the sisters. Met in an eve-
ning meeting. Bishop Jones said we had
the spirit of the Lord in our midst.
There is plenty of good land in the
Muddy Valley, and would make homes for
many people if enough would come in to
purchase it.
On the 17th we returned to Bunkerville.
In the evening we held a meeting with the
advanced Primary, the children going
through the exercises very creditably.
On the 16th we went to Musquito Flat.
Here the people are filling up this settlement
very fast. We held two meetings here and
went on to Brother Nephi Johnson’s, where
they are building a very nice house,and par-
took of their hospitality. We arrived at
Littlefield in time to hold an evening meet-
ing.
We reached St. George on the 17th,
having traveled two hundred miles, held
twelve meetings and, we trust, done some
good in urging the sisters to their duty.
 Ann C. Woodbury.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
Minntes of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting, Jan. 12 President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Present on the stand, President M. I. 
Horne, Annie T. Hyde, Elizabeth Webb,
S J. Cannon, Julia C. Howe.
	Meeting commenced by singing, "All 
hail the new born year." Prayer by Sister 
Sarah Jane Cannon. Singing, "Come let 
us anew our journey pursue." 
	President Horne welcomed the sisters at 
their first semi-monthly meeting of the new 
year and the new century. Made very 
instructing remarks relative to the prophecies 
of the opening of the new year and new 
century, and concerning this people. Testi-
fied of the goodness of the Lord in assisting 
the people to reclaim the desert places and 
improve this country to which we were led 
by the prophets of the Lord. Prayed for 
the spirit of the Lord on all the people.
	A sister in the congregation testified to 
the goodness of the Lord to her in restoring 
her memory and in answering her prayers 
in many instances. Sister Julia C. Howe
testified of the goodness of the Lord to her.
Was grateful for the preservation of her 
life. Felt that there was a great work for 
her to do in working for her dead. Ac-
knowledged the goodness of the Lord in 
answering her prayers. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon considered it a 
privilege to attend these meetings, for the 
words of testimony uttered were a great 
help to her. Hoped we would all live ex-
emplary lives and live so that we would be 
saved in the celestial kingdom.
[column 2]
	Sister Webb thought these meetings 
created a feeling of love among those who
attended. Hoped we would all live so as to 
have faith to meet the trials and scourges 
that were bound to be in our midst and of 
which we will be sure to have a part.
	A sister in the congregation from the 
Twenty-Fourth Ward bore her testimony. 
Sister Annie T. Hyde encouraged the 
sisters to speak, as it not only assisted 
themselves, but helped others. Spoke of 
the necessity of doing Temple work and of 
the great development of science in the past 
century, was sure we could not have an 
idea of what awaited us in the future. Bore 
a faithful testimony to the truth of the 
Gospel.
	A sister in the congregation bore an 
earnest testimony.
	Sister Sophia T. Nuttall said she was 
glad to be present, was especially thankful
for health and the preservation of her life 
and the lives of her children. Felt to praise 
her Heavenly Father and to rejoice in 
the work, and hoped to be able to endure to 
the end.
	Sister Brown thanked her Heavenly 
Father for all the blessings given her, was 
thankful for the privilege of working in the 
Temple. 
A sister from Brighton Ward realized 
that it is a great blessing to live at this 
time, hoped to have strength to do the 
labor devolving on her. Had received 
many testimonies of the truth of the Gos-
pel.
	A sister in the congregation said she 
knew the Lord would open the way for us if 
we earnestly ask him to assist us, made 
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Hardy prayed for strength to re-
main faithful and for assistance to perform 
the duties of life. Was thankful for the 
blessings of the Lord.
	A sister spoke of the blessings of the 
Father to her in giving her a testimony of 
the truth. 
	Sister Mary Silver was glad to be a mem-
ber of the Church, thought we should 
stand firm and keep the commandments 
given us and the covenants we have made. 
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams bore her testi-
mony to the blessings of the Lord which 
are constantly given to His people.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the 
blessings which she had received from the
Lord.
	Another sister said she had been in the 
Church fifty years. She had a testimony
that this was the work of the Lord. 
Sister Barrow was glad to have a testi-
mony. She was always learning something.
Spoke of the answer to her prayers in giv-
ing health and strength to her children. 
Knew that the Lord did answer prayers,
We must work for the blessings we receive.
	Sister Horne made a few closing remarks.
Said the sisters should study the life of the 
Savior, and we should do as we would like 
to be done by. Spoke of administering to 
the sick, said that those administering 
should have the spirit of the Lord, or the 
sympathy of the one administering might 
impel him to promise blessings which the 
Lord did not see fit to give.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. 	Benediction by Sister
Silver.
	CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, Sec. pro tem.


HON. GEORGE F. HOAR is still the
senior Senator from Massachusetts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE POET.

His home is on the heights; to him
Men wage a battle weird and dim;
Life is a mission stern as fate,
And Song a dread apostalate. 
The toils of prophecy are his,
To hail the coming centuries—
To ease the steps and lift the load 
Of souls that falter on the road.
The perilous music that he hears
Falls from the voices of the spheres.

He presses on before the race.
And sings out of a silent place, 
Like faint dotes of a forest bird
On heights afar that voice is heard;
And the dim path he breaks today
Will some time be a trodden way.
But when the race comes toiling on,
That voice of wonder will be gone—
Be heard on higher peaks afar,
Moved upward with the morning star.

O, men of earth, that wondering voice 
Still goes the upward way; rejoice!

SELECTED.


[Column One]
A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
SISTER JANE BALLANTYNE TAYLOR.

A mother in Israel has gone to her rest,
	She has said her farewell to loved ones so dear, , 
Across the bright river in realms of the blest,
	She was welcomed by those who loved her while
		here.

Dear friends, do not sorrow, her trials are o’er,
She has fought the good fight, the battle is won,
Anon you will meet her on that golden shore,
And she’ll joyfully echo the plaudit, “Well
		done.”

	For such women as Sister Jane Taylor
there is joy unspeakable in meeting those
hear ones who have gone before, but to
those who remain the loss is great of the
presence in the home. The angelic spirit
that characterized her whole life was more
than an example, it was like sweet incense
the household. She has gone from her
earthly home, we shall hear her sweet voice
no more, nor see her smile of welcome.
	Yet we can never forget her saintly man-
ner and loving spirit, always the same gentle
welcome to her friends.
	As she lay in her white robes in the
beautiful casket, she wore the same sweet
smile and looked like a bride going to the
marriage altar. The floral tributes of
loving children, grandchildren and friends
seemed as fitting for this queenly mother as
though she were indeed going on a wedding
tour. The purity and integrity of her long
life are a bright example to the young
women of Zion.
			 ---------
Sister Jane Ballantyne Taylor was born
April 11, 1813, in Sheffield, near Edinburg,
Scotland. Her father was David Ballantyne
and her mother Annie Bannerman Ballan-
tyne. Richard Ballantyne, famous in
Sunday School work in early days in the
valley, and until his demise, not long ago,
was her brother. The Ballantyne family
embraced the Gospel in Scotland in 1842.
	In 1843 they emigrated to America and
were seven weeks in crossing the ocean to
New Orleans. They went direct to Nauvoo
and February 25, 1844, Miss Ballantyne be-
came the wife of the late President John
Taylor. The marriage ceremony was per-
formed by Patriarch Hyrum Smith. Sister
Taylor shared in all the trials, hardships and
sufferings of the troublous times. At the time
of the exodus irom Nauvoo she crossed the
Mississippi river, walking over it the whole
distance, when at every step the ice cracked
under her feet. The weather was intensely
cold, the Saints were not well provided with
shelter and Sister Taylor, with another

[Column Two]
sister, sat up in a wagon the whole night, as
there was not room to lie down, but no
murmur escaped her lips. During the
arduous journey from Nauvoo to the Mis-
souri river, and the prolonged stay at
Winters Quarters, she, in common with
others, bad much to endure, but her faith
never wavered, she was willing to endure
the trials to gain her experience, and to
earn an exaltation hereafter.
	Her faith in the Gospel was firm and
steadfast, never doubting the goodness of
God, always hopeful and patient under
even the severest trials.
	President Taylor and family came across
the plains from the Missouri river to the
Salt Take Valley in 1847, in the first com-
pany behind the pioneers, so that Sister Jane
Taylor was a real pioneer.
	Annie, her eldest child, was born in
October, 1849, just as her husband was
leaving to go on amission to France, and
the family were very scantily provided for.
But Sister Taylor with her sublime faith
and trust in God was nothing daunted, and
then, as always, thanked God for His good-
ness and trusted on. A noble, heroic
woman, in every way worthy the name of
Saint.
	Her youngest son, David John, died very
suddenly while in New York on business in
the summer of 1881, leaving a young wife
and babe. His mother bore this trial as
she had all others, with heroic complacency,
acknowledging the hand of God even in
this seemingly lamentable occurrence. She
leaves one son, Richard B. Taylor, who
resides in Ogden, and one daughter, Annie,
wife of Alonzo E. Hyde, of this city, many
grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
It was at her daughter’s residence that she
passed away, having resided there ever
since her husband’s death in 1887. Her
children, Richard and Annie, and her eldest
grandchildren were wiih her to the last.
She fell asleep without a struggle on the
morning of Tuesday, December 26, 1900,
at the age of eighty-seven years eight
months and fifteen days. Sister Taylor
leaves one sister almost her own age, Sister
Annie Quayle, of Ogden.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord,
yea, from henceforth, for their works follow
them.”
	Sister Taylor was a woman of generous
impulses and gave much to the needy, and.
she was especially charitable in heir estimate
of the character of others. It is said of her
that she never spoke evil of any one; silence
was her habit when there was gossip or
islander of one’s character, unless she could
refute what was being said. In reviewing
her life, her virtues shine out most conspicu-
ously, though she was of a very retiring
disposition, the old-fashioned type, as
Milton says in “Paradise Lost,”

	“Nothing lovelier can be found.
In woman than to study household good,
	And good works in her husband to promote.”
				---------
	The funeral services were held Thusday,
December 28, at the residence of her
daughter, Bishop George H. Taylor presid-
ing. The opening hymn, “I need Thee
every hour,” was sweetly rendered by a
quartette of male voices. Prayer was offered
by Elder Rodney C. Badger, and the next
hymn very feelingly sung was “Nearer my
God to Thee.”
	The remarks made by the speakers were
appropriate and telling. Bishop Taylor
made opening remarks followed by Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon and Apostle John

[Column Three]

W. Taylor. Then Mrs. Maggie Hull sang
sympathetically, in her clear voice, without
accompaniment, the good old hymn, “I
know that my Redeemer lives.” After-
wards Apostle John Henry Smith and
President Joseph F. Smith made very
consoling and impressive remarks, and
the quartette sang “We shall meet Beyond
the River.” Benediction by Counselor
Arthur Barnes of the Bishopric of the ward.
A large number of people, relatives and
friends followed the deceased to her last
resting place in the city cemetery. The
grave was dedicated by Elder John W.
Taylor.

E. B. W.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Dr. Alice Byram Condict, of Orange,
N. J., after serving eight years as a self-
supporting medical missionary in India, is
how doing medical missionary work m
Manila. She left Bombay three months
ago after exhausting herself caring for the
famine sufferers.”

	Miss Mary G. Hay, who has been for
some years one of the ablest and most
efficient organizers in the ranks of the
National Suffrage Association, has accepted
an important position in the Mutual Life
Insurance Company, where her admirable
business talents will have large scope.

	Miss Estelle Reel, Superintendent of
Indian Education, has just issued her
annual report, from which the following
extracts are made. Since her appointment
26 months ago, Miss Reel has been in the
field 17 months, lias inspected 49 schools,
traveled 41,138 miles, of which 2,087 miles
were covered by wagon, pack horse and
on foot, over lofty mountains, through
dense forests, on remote frontiers and over
rugged trails between precipitous cliffs. 
	Col. T. W. Higginson, accompanied
by Mrs. Higginson, has gone on a two
weeks lecturing tour out West It is many
years now since he has given lectures in
cities outside Boston and vicinity. He
does it now because he feels physically
able. He will speak in Chicago before the
Twentieth Century Club, in Cleveland at
the Northwestern University, offering three
lectures on “American orators and ora-
tory,” and in Minneapolis, Indianapolis
and Akron, O He has also in view a trip
to the Mediterranean, taking in Grenada, 
the Alhambra and Italy, and returning by
way of France and England. His wife and
daughter accompany him. They will sail 
in March.

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe was an honored
guest at the banquet of the Daughters of
Vermont on the last night of the old year,
and was introduced by the president of the
club, Mrs. Sallie Joy White, as one of
Massachusetts’, America’s and the world’s
loved daughters. Mrs. Howe referred
pleasantly to her visits to Vermont in win-
ter when it was sheathed in ice, and in
summer when it was blooming and green,
and it was always beautiful. She said she
had lived four-fifths of the century just
closing. The country had grown and 
cities sprung up like flowers since she
could remember. “Let us expect the new
century will surpass the one now going
out,” she said. ‘‘Let us expect that all
good things will go forward and surround
[]he world with a bond of p


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
	ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15, & FEB. 1, 1901.


[Column 1]
SOME HAPPENINGS OF THE NEW YEAR.
	President George Q. Cannon’s visit to the
Sandwich Islands to attend the Semi-Centen-
nial celebration of the advent of the Gospel
into that faroff land, was an event of consider-
able significance, and as President Cannon
was one of that company of Elders, though
then a very young man, who first took the
Gospel to that people fifty years ago, it did
seem a fitting tribute to him, that he should
be present and give them the opportunity to
hear him speak in the language he learned at
that time, and it must have been a great
satisfaction to them to see and hear him.
	Those who have read the account of
his trip in the Deseret Evening News know
how delighted the native people were, and
especially the descendants of those who re-
ceived the Elders into their homes at that
time, to have him among them now that he
has attained to such a high position in the
Church and in the nation.
	It was very affecting even to read of the
ovation paid him, and must have been a
most pathetic scene to witness. It reminds
one very forcibly of Longfellow’s salutation to
his college fifty years after, when the class in
Bowdoin college celebrated its semi-centen-
nial. The poem is one of the most beautiful
in the English language.
**Alas, what have I said?
What greetings come there from the voiceless dead?
What salutation, welcome or reply?
What pressure from the hands that lifeless lie?
They are no longer here; they all are gone
Into the land of shadows—all save one.
Honor and reverence, and the good repute
That follows faithful service as its fruit,
Be unto him, whom living we salute.

The great Italian poet, when he made
His dreadful journey to the realms of shade
Met there the old instructor of his youth
And said in tones of pity and of ruth:
“O never from the memory of my heart
Your dear, paternal image shall depart,
Who while on earth, ere yet by death surprised.
Taught me how mortals are immortalized.
***
Today we make the poet’s words our own,
And utter them in plaintive undertone;
Nor to the living only be they said,
But to that other living called the dead,
Whose dear paternal images appear
Not wrapped in gloom but robed in sunshine here;
Whose simple lives complete and without flaw,
Were part and parcel of great Nature’s law,
Who said not to their Lord, as if afraid
"Here is thy talent in a napkin laid,”
But labored in their sphere, as men who live
In the delight that work. alone can give.
Peace be to them, eternal peace and rest,
And the fulfillment of the great behest;
“Ye have been faithful over a few things,
Over ten cities shall ye reign as kings,”

[Column 2]
	Since January 1st of this year, 1901,
time has been busy with its record of notable
happenings. The inauguration of the
Governor of Utah and the State officials
should be mentioned first perhaps, although
the demonstrations were unostentatious, it
was sort of military, Brigadier General John
Q. Cannon, of the National Guard of Utah,
having charge of the affair.
	The official proceedings took place in the
Hall of Representatives, in the City and
County Building, the platform being
appropriately and artistically draped with
flags and banners, the Declaration of
Independence, handsomely framed, hanging
on the wall at the back and over the heads
of the judges and officers of the State.
Held’s Baud discoursed martial music.
General Cannon was Master of Ceremonies.
	Prayer was offered by the Right Reverend
Bishop Scanlan, of the Catholic Church of
this city. Chief Justice Miner, of the
Supreme Court of Utah, administered the
oath of office in the formal manner to the
State officers, except the Governor, who
then proceeded to give his inaugural address,
and after the conclusion of the address,
which was a very able document, and when
the applause had subsided, the Chief Justice
administered the oath to the Governor, and
General Cannon announced the Governor of
Utah and gave the signal for a salute of
seventeen guns. The cannon boomed just
at the hour of twelve and the band followed
with “America,” the audience rising in re-
sponse to the national air, and the great and
grand ceremonies of State were over.
	Congratulations and handshaking fol-
lowed. The day was very stormy but all
passed off pleasantly nevertheless. Better
storms without than storms within, and one
cannot help feeling it a good omen to open
a new century so auspiciously as
Utah has by ushering in its new officers of
State with such general good feeling by all
political parties and the people concerned in
its welfare.
	Elaborate preparations had been made for
an inaugural ball to finish the day’s exer-
cises, and the Salt Lake Theatre had been
decorated profusely with flags, banners,
bunting and colored electric lights; an
immense bee hive, the State emblem con-
spicuously placed in the centre of the first
circle, opposite to the platform, added much
to the attractive features.
	Many mottoes were arranged in the colors
of lights and were very handsome, as well
as significant. The ball was given by “the
National Guard of Utah in honor of the
Governor, Heber M. Wells and the State
officers of Utah.” It was a superb affair,
and most enjoyable. Printed programs,
on the cover the bee hive and monogram of
the N. G. U. in blue and gold, encircled by
the sego lily (the State flower) and below the
words “Inaugural Ball,” with arrows
crossed underneath and finished with the
figures, 1901.
	The Governor’s staff and officers of the
National Guard were in uniform, which
added greatly to the attractions of the
scene on the floor, although, of course, the
Governor himself was the great attraction,
not even the brilliant ladies in their elabor-
ate toilettes, outshining him on this festive
occasion.

	The Legislature of the State of Utah con-
vened on Monday, January 14, and have
been in regular session since that time.
An effort was made, as there were no

[Column 3]
women members, to get the Senate to
appoint a woman chaplain, but it was not
successful.
	The electing of a United States Senator
has occupied the attention of the general
public, as naturally it should, and feeling
that matter to be a most important one,
finally, after voting for this and that candi-
date, the Republican members of the
Legislature in joint session, on Wednesday
at high noon, January 23, elecedt Hon.
Thomas Kearns United States Senator for
Utah, with the entire vote of the House
and Senate, thirty-seven in all. The
Democrats, true to their party, honored
A. W. McCune by casting the whole num-
ber of their votes for him. A committee
of two was appointed from both the Senate
and the House to conduct the Governor
and one of the Supreme Court Judges to
Senator Kearns, and present him to the
joint assembly.
	While awaiting the arrival of Senator
Kearns, Senator Smoot reminded the
Legislature that they had been notified of
the death of the greatest sovereign the
world had ever known, and thought it
proper for the Legislature to adjourn in
honor of Queen Victoria, and offered
Resolutions of sympathy.
	At 1:25 the Governor came into the hall
and introduced Senator Kearns, who briefly
addressed the Members of the Legislature
and Friends.
	“No man could receive so high an honor
as that you have just conferred upon me
without feeling a deep sense of gratitude.
To say that I thank you from the bottom
of my heart but feebly expresses my feel-
ings at this time. I am no orator. I am
but a plain, blunt man, and what I lack in
oratory I hope to make up in action. I
promise you now that so far as lies in my
power I shall do everything possible to
maintain the honor and integrity of our
beloved State, and my hig[-]est ambition
will be gratified if I can advance Utah’s
material interests and place her in the
forefront of western States. Again I thank
you.”
	The Governor said in part:
	“I have known Mr. Kearns for many
years and found him to be an example of
integrity, good citizenship and splendid
executive ability; He has risen from the
pick and drill, from what might be called
the bucket brigade, to his present high
commercial standing by his own efforts.
I have no fear as to the results of his
election as Senator. I do not fear that
that there will be blood on the moon or
that the earth will stop revolving on its
axis. He may not be long on oratory, but
he will make up for this lack in his other
sterling qualities, and I have no doubt will
prove a credit to our State.”
	Justice Miner of the Supreme Court then
said a few words on the choice of the new
Senator. He said that he believed in the
selection that had been made we would
have for Senator a business man of sterling
quality and a man of character who would
reflect honor on the State-


MRS. EVANGELINE HEARTZ, member of
the Colorado House of Representatives,
has been made chairman of the committee
on enrollment and a member of the com-
mittee on appropriations and expenditures,
education, State institutions, temperance
and public health.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A WORD OF LOVE AND GREETING.

TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE
	RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF
	JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

Dearly beloved Sisters, both far and near:

	With hearts full of gratitude and bless-
ings, we desire to offer you a few of our
thoughts and reflections concerning the
great work in which we, as daughters of our
Heavenly Father, are privileged to be en-
gaged.
	Were circumstances such as to permit of
our doing so, we should greatly rejoice in
visiting personally every branch of our
society, in speaking words of encourage-
ment, and where necessary offering sugges-
tions, and, perhaps, instructions, and in
shaking hands with every member; and
even the young ladies and the little chil-
dren who are to continue the work after us.
But in as much as it is impossible for us to
do this, we have decided to express our-
selves by means of writing. That you
may understand that our hearts are ever
full of loving appreciation of your faithful
and far-reaching labors and of prayers and
blessings for you all.
	To begin with, we bear you our testi-
mony that the work we are engaged in is
of God. That the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the Relief Society,
which is a portion of that Church, were
organized by the Prophet of the Lord. That
we knew Joseph Smith personally, and saw
and heard him many times speaking to the
Saints when he was so filled with the Spirit
of the Lord that his countenance became
transparent, and he looked and spoke like a
heavenly being. And the Holy Ghost bore
witness to us that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of the living God.
	We desire to leave this testimony with
you all, and to have you understand and re-
member that the Prophet of the Lord organ-
ized our Relief Society that we might have the
glorious privilege of doing the same kind of
work that our Lord and Savior did when
He was upon this earth.
	We all know that he was interested in
looking after the sick and the afflicted, the
poor and the needy, the deaf and the dumb,
the blind and all who were discouraged or
in any way troubled. We should do all
these things cheerfully, according to the
beautiful example He has set for us, with
patience and long suffering, such as con-
tinued with Him to the last.
	Questions are often asked concerning the
requisite of a Relief Society president and
other officers of the organization. We may
answer that the holding of the sacred posi-
tion of President over a Relief Society is a
very responsible calling. It means much
besides the honor that may be attached to it.
It means constant care and solicitude, as
well as actual labor with head and hands
to keep all matters pertaining to the society
straight and right; to see that there is no
suffering of any kind in any quarter, over
which she has supervision, that there is a
possibility of relieving.
	When a sister accepts the position of
president over a Relief Society; she should
endeavor to fully consider the importance of
that position. The charitable, loving,
Gospel feelings which she must cherish to-
wards her counselors, the other officers and
all members of the Society. And the coun-
selors should be one with the president, al-
ways sustaining and upholding her in their
various duties. The president should als<o>

[Column 2]
respect her counselors, consulting with
them freely, the three being truly united, 
working in harmony, dividing responsibili-
ties and labors so that none shall be over-
taxed where it can be avoided, ever remem-
bering the Savior’s words to His disciples,
“Be ye one.”
	“He that thinketh he is something when
he is nothing, deceiveth himself.” This
passage of scripture expresses a sentiment
which we should never lose sight of. For
we are all as nothing, except the Spirit of
the Lord enlightens and helps us. If we
have not that Spirit to enable us to under-
stand and perform our duties we are not
prepared for Relief Society work; neither
can we become useful in the kingdom of
God in any capacity without the companion-
ship and assistance of His Holy Spirit. We
want to bear in mind constantly that “of
ourselves we are nothing.” We are but
frail instruments in God’s hands to assist in
His work.
	Never feel that one is of superior worth to
her neighbor, but that each is necessary in
her place. Those who hold office should
be more humble even than others. Who
should set the example of humilty, long-
suffering and charity for the failings of
others in the home but the mother? And
who in the Relief Society but the president?
And as with the president so with the
counselors, and indeed, all the other officers.
	And then: every member in the society
should consider it her duty and privilege to
uphold and assist by every means at her
disposal, the officers of the society to which
she belongs; just as a loving, faithful
daughter in the home should seek to relieve
the heavily burdened mother, as much as
possible, of her anxieties and re-
sponsibilities.
	The sisters should meet together often,
and a good, reliable record should be kept
of all that is done. A competent Secretary
is a most important factor in a society. The
Treasurer’s office is also a weighty one, and
must be filled by careful selection.
	And the teachers—oh what a responsible
position the teachers hold! How much
they require the Spirit of the Lord to help
them in their duties! Their visits to the
sisters must ever be in all kindness, love
and sympathy, to comfort, encourage and
relieve all suffering ones. Wisdom and
discretion should be among their gifts.
	These requisites, which we have but
briefly mentioned are some of the qualifica-
tions necessary to make capable officers in
the Relief Society. It is not to be supposed
that when appointed to office every sister
will be fully prepared to undertake her
duties without the probability of making
mistakes. But we must be willing to
learn and never be discouraged because of
some failures.
	The officers of a society must consult to-
gether, instructing and edifying each other
so that all may come to understand the re-
quirements of their positions.
	And here we will say, that misunder-
standings and disagreements which may arise
in the society, the sisters should settle in all
kindness, quietly and effectually among
themselves. They are an organized society
and should have the power and grace to ad-
just their own difficulties. Where they lack
wisdom, let them ask of God, who giveth
liberally and upbraideth not, and it will be
given.
	Among our young people, a knowledge
of the design of our Relief Society work
should be made more general than it is,

[Column 3]
Our children, sons as well as daughters
should be encouraged to visit our meetings
at least occasionally, that they may better
understand the purposes of this organization
to which their mothers belong.
	Hoping, dear sisters, that in the near
future we shall have the opportunity of
communicating further with you on these
most important subjects, we will now con-
clude by again extending to you our heart-
felt love and blessings, ever praying for
your welfare and happiness and the con-
tinued success and growth of our mutual
work.
	Your sincere sisters and colaborers,
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
				SARAH J. CANNON.


NATIONAL LIVE STOCK CONVENTION.
	Great preparations were made in the
city for the National Live Stock Conven-
tion, held here the third week in January.
Business houses and all public buildings
were profusely decorated, and the Electric
Light Company did much to enhance the
beauty of the night with the colored
lights ingeniously strung here and there.
The Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in which
the Convention was held, was a dazzling
scene of splendor by night and more elabor-
atety decorated than ever before, the
heads and horns of cattle making it very
picturesque, and the seals of all the States
arranged around the gallery, were very
interesting indeed.
	The reception at the Knutsford Tuesday
evening the 15th, was a grand affair, both
for strangers and citizens. The Governor
and a few of the ladies committee (his
staff, and Gen Cannon of the N. G. U., in
uniform) received the guests in the center
of the parlor, which was very handsomely
and elaborately decorated in honor of the
ladies and gentlemen of the Convention.
Other rooms were beautifully decorated as
well as the dancing hall, which was a scene
of beauty. The music was very fine and
the evening passed pleasantly, notwith-
standing the immense crowd.
	Much credit is due the General Commit-
tee, of which the Governor was chairman,
and Mrs. Holmes, who furnished all the
beautiful flowers that made the rooms so
attractive.
	The receptions in private residences
given to the ladies of the party, were all
very pleasant affairs,and one hopes a happy
remembrance of Salt Lake City to these
lady visitors from all parts of the United
States.
	On Friday afternoon, January 18, Mrs.
Thompson and other ladies at the Mayor’s
residence, Mrs. McCornick and ladies at her
elegant home, and Mrs. Snow at the Bee
Hive, with a few of her friends,opened their
homes from 2 to 5 to the visitors of the
party making the occasion as festive as such
formal entertainments can be by furnishing
the best of music and appropriate drapery
and decorating for the time and occasion.
	At the Bee Hive, which is a historic house
built early in the settlement of Salt Lake
City, a program of the songs and music had
been printed, and each guest was given one
as a souvenir of the occasion. Some of the
best talent of the city gave both vocal and
instrumental selections from the greatest
composers.
	So many things have transpired during


the first month of the new year that it is
impossible to do justice to the subject un-
less one had more space or a daily paper.


78					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
	    R. S AND P. A. REPORTS.

		MARICOPA STAKE,

	The Relief Society conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held in the
Mesa Relief Society hall, Decem-
ber 20, 1900, Stake President Mabel Ann
Hakes presiding. Meeting opened with the
usual exercises, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.,
attendance of thirty-four officers besides the
members.
	The wards were all represented and re-
ported with one exception. The instruc-
tions were timely and such as would elevate
mankind. The subjects mostly dwelt upon
were the moral lives of ourselves and chil-
dren; reverence for the Gospel; the duties
of the Relief Society, both financially and
spiritually; restitution should not be put off
until tomorrow, also many strong testi-
monies were borne to the divinity of the
Gospel. We had a glorious conference. Ad-
journed for three months.
				ANNA E. FULLER, Sec.

		PUEBLO, COLORADO.

	The Relief Society of Pueblo, Colorado
celebrated the second anniversary of the
organization, on Tuesday, December 4,
1900. It had been organized two years on
July 3, but on account of sickness and
deaths, we concluded to put it off for
awhile. The sisters arranged a program to
be followed by refreshments. The admit-
tance was by invitation, and the hall was
quite comfortably filled.
	President Lizzie Hart welcomed the
guests, of whom a great number do not be-
long to our faith but attend meetings
regularly, we had given them invitations
and President Hart gave each gentleman a
white buttonhole Bouquet souvenir.
	First Counselor Amanda Coleman took
charge of the program. The sisters whose
names were on the program all did their
parts well. Several of the brethren spoke
and said they were certainly surprised at
the growth of the society, which now num-
bers three times as many as when it was
organized; also our Bishop, John T. Hart
was present and he spoke briefly on the
organization of our Relief Society and gave
us some good instructions which were very
encouraging to the sisters. While refresh-
ments were being laid on the tables by
Counselor Lillie Coleman, assisted by
Treasurer Turner, John Sessions and Sister
Sarah Hall, President Harts's son, Willie,
entertained the company with selections on
the phonograph. After the tables were
spread with every bounty that heart could
desire the guests were waited upon by three
charming young sisters, Martha and Maud
Hall and Bessie Coleman, assisted by
Brother Carl Frank Coleman, James T.
Johnson and Claude Betenburger.
	After supper there was singing by the
company, and they each laid every care
aside and expressed themselves as feeling
that it was the most enjoyable affair that
they had attended, which greatly encouraged
the sisters of the society, as every one had
worked faithfully to make it a success.
	Benediction was pronounced and all left
for their homes feeling happy.
AMANDA COLEMAN, Asst. Sec.
[column 2]
	PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of Primary Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly
Hall, December 15, 1900, President Cam-
illa C. Cobb presiding.
	On the stand with President Cobb were
her counselors, Lydia A. Wells and Mary
L. Morris and aids, President Louie B.
Felt, Counselor Lillie T. Freeze and May
Anderson, secretary of the General Board.
	Meeting opened by singing "Open the
door for the children." Prayer by Master
James Hooper. Singing, "Did you think
to pray." Roll called, twenty-one Presidents
responding with sentiments. Minutes of
previous conference read and approved.
The program was carried out as follows:
"Story of the Life of the Savior," by
the Nineteenth ward Primary.
	Song by Edith Grant, "A Miracle."
"The Widow of Nain" was repeated by
Master Pruette Goddard.
	Song, "Think of These Things," by
members of the Ninth Ward Primary.
	Recitation by Mercy Bywater, and song
by Katie Martin of the same ward.
	An address on the duties of the children
was given by Master Woolley.
	The parable, "The lillies of the field,"
was repeated by Mary Grant.
	An exercise on the "Book of Mormon"
was given by members of the Twenty-Fourth
Ward Primary.
	Song by Leah Ashton.
	Recitation and song, "The Rosebud,"
by four little girls from the Third Ward.
	Sister Olive Derbidge told a pleasing
Christmas story, which was very much en-
joyed by the children, after which Master
Asper gave a selection on the organ.
	President Felt then addressed the confer-
ence. Said she had listened with pleasure
to the exercises. Told the children that if
they wanted to be happy on Christmas day
they should visit the poor and the families
of missionaries, and try to make them hap-
py. Said as there were so many sick in
our midst would give them a mission to
pray for them.
	Veda Jones gave a recitation, entitled,
"Uncle Pete's Plea."
Counselor Lillie T. Freeze spoke to the
children. Asked them to carry out in their
lives the sentiment, "Whatsoever ye would
have others do to you, do ye even so to
them," and make it their life's lesson; and
also told them they should try to make
some one happy on Christmas day. Felt to
bless teachers and children.
	After singing, "We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet," conference was adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Brother
Goddard.
	At the close of the conference packets of
candy were distributed to the children.
				ELLA W. HYDE, Sec.

	FRISCO RELIEF SOCIETY.

	In obedience to a call from Stake Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Beaver
Stake, Sister C. C. Shepherd, the sisters
and a fair showing of the brethren met in
the Frisco school house August  1900, at
9:30 a. m., with a view of organizing a
society.
	Elder William Ashworth presided. The
congregation sang "We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet." Brother S. A. Chase
offered the opening prayer. Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel."
Brother Ashworth spoke of organization
[column 3]
and reminded us that we were here to do
good, then turned the meeting into the
hands of the sisters.
	President Shepherd was pleased to see so
many present, but would have been better
pleased if there had been more. Said they
were instructed to come and organize, if the
people wanted. a Relief Society, thought
much good could be done here. "If the
sisters will do their duty the Lord will
bless them and they can do a great deal of
good."
Brother Ashworth put a vote to find how
many were willing to organize, and all were
favorable.
	Then came the question of a president
and Sister Adams nominated Sister Matilda
Olsen. A vote was finally taken and Sister
Olsen unanimously sustained.
	Comments were made and a vote taken
that we have one organization and hold
meetings alternately here and at the mine.
	Sister Olsen chose as counselors Sister
M. E. Adams and Sister Crassiah Jones.
	A secretary was called for, but the matter
was deferred. Sister Margaret Jones was
chosen treasurer.
	Matilda Olsen was then set apart as
president, Sister M. E. Adams as first
counselor, Sister Crassiah Jones as second
counselor and Sister Margaret Jones as
treasurer.
	It was then moved and seconded that
Sister Clara Griffith be secretary. Carried.
She was set apart.
	Sister M. A. White spoke, showing how
we should love each other and our God.
True happiness comes of God. The Lord
has always compassion with the sinner.
Our heavenly Father is the only judge. We
must exert our energies that we may fulfill
our duties. Was pleased with the election
of the president. People of energy are al-
ways busy. We must be wide awake
mothers and try to make our children better
than ourselves. Try to realize the responsi-
bility of motherhood. Spoke at length on
cheerfulness and control of self. Instil
truth and purity into our children. We
have duties to the sick and distressed.
Prayed God to bless our organization.
	Congregation sang "There is beauty all
around." Benediction by Brother William
Ashworth.
			SARAH GRIFFITH, Sec.


OBITUARY.
SISTER SARAH S. HARDER.
 	Sister Sarah S. Harder died at her residence in
Kamas, Summit Co., October 28, 1900, after a long
and painful illness and severe suffering for five
months.
	She was born in Portsmouth, England, March 3,
1840, and was the daughter of Stephen and Eliza-
beth Biddlecome Spicer, and the wife of [-]illet S.
Harder. She leaves a husband, two married
daughters, seven grandchildren and many friends
to mourn her loss. Two sons preceded her to the
great beyond. She was a faithful member of the
Kamas Relief Society for many years.
	Sister Harder was set apart as assistant secretary
on March 7, 1881, and appointed secretary of the
same society on June 10, 1895, which position she
held until her death. Her Relief Society work
was well and faithfully done and stands to her
honor. She came to Utah in 1863, and crossed the
plains in Rosel Hyde’s company.
		M. L. WOOLSTENHULME, Stake Sec.
SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions adopted by the officers and mem-
bers of the Georgetown Relief Society in honor of,
their beloved sister, Hetta Emeline Welker Dunn,
who departed this life Nov. 17, 1900, at her home
after an illness of many years of lung trouble. 
	Sister Dunn was born in the State of Iowa,


[Column 1]
November 1, 1848. She was a faithful Latter-day
Saint, and as such we mourn her departure. She
was president of the Young Ladies’ Association in
Bloomington (her former home) for ten years, and
second counselor in the Georgetown Relief Society,
which position she filled with honor until her health
failed and she resigned her position as counselor.
	She was of a quiet, retiring disposition, yet
always willing to do her duty. She was the
mother of eight children, three sons and five
daughters, all of whom attended her funeral ex-
cepting one son. who resides in Canada and did
not arrive in time to see his beloved mother, and
drop one tear of sorrow on her marble brow.
	Resolved, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our beloved sister to her heavenly home,
that we desire to emulate her noble example, and
that we herewith express our heartfelt sympathy
for her bereaved husband and children. Be it
fnrther
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on
the record of the society, a copy be sent to the
family and one to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication. 
			SUSAN E. THOMPSON, Pres.
MARY CRAIGG PETERSON.
	Sister Mary Craigg Peterson, who, after an ill-
ness of several months, of dropsy, departed this
life November 11, 1900.
	Sister Peterson was born in Denmark, May 20,
1863. After embracing the Gospel she came to
Zion to mingle with the chosen people of God. She
leaves a husband and four children, three sons and
one daughter the youngest child being a boy six
months old.
	Sister Mary was a faithful worker as a teacher
in the Pleasant Green Ward Relief Society, of Salt
Lake Stake of Zion. She never shrank beneath
the responsibilities of her duties in the cause of
trnth.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, yea. they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved. That as God in His in[--]ite wisdom
saw fit to call our beloved sister to the Great
Beyond, we all share in the grief of her departure
from us, yet joy when we think of her being in
happiness in her heavenly home.
	That we will miss her as a faithful worker and a
dear associate.
	That we present a copy of these resolutions to
her bereaved husband and family, to her mother,
one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication and
one be placed on file in the Relief Society record
book.
					ALVIRA S. HIRST, Pres.
ANNIE LAZENBY.
	Sister Annie Lazenby died at her home in Loa,
Utah, October 29, 1900. She was the daughter of
[-]ohn Tether and Phebe Oads Tether. She was
born at Thorn, near Doncaster, England, June
30, 1845, joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. June 1866, was baptized by
Elder Fulmer and came to Utah in 1868 on the
good ship Constitution. She crossed the plains
from the Platte River, walking most of the way.
There were sixty wagons drawn by oxen. Cap-
tain John Gallispie’s company arrived in Salt Lake
City in September, where she took a room near
Brother Betson Eardley in the seventh Ward.
	She was married to John T. Lazenby by D. H.
Wells in the Endowment House, March 17, 1869,
and went with her husband to the railroad at the
mouth of Weber canyon on J. W, Young’s con-
tract. They moved to Pleasant Grove June 1869,
and to Minersville Nov. 1869, and came to Fre-
mont Valley Nov. 1878, and located at Loa, which
was then a part of Grass Valley Ward, the in-
habitants at that time being mostly Indians.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, was the
mother of three sons and six daughters. One son
and one daughter preceded her to the better land.
She leaves a husband and two sons (one of whom
is now on a mission to South Carolina) and five
daughters to revere her memory.
	She was a teacher in the Loa Relief Society ever
since its organization until her health was so poor
she could not go as a teacher any longer, but was
always a faithful, energetic woman. She was an
invalid for about five years before her death.
					M. J. TAYLOR, Pres.
ANNA CHRISTINE MARIA PALLISEN JANSEN.
	Sister Anna Christine Maria Pallisen Jansen,
widow of the late A. A. Jansen, of the Third Ward
of Brigham City, died Monday, September 17, at
9:15 p. m., of dropsy, after a lingering illness.

[Column 2]
	She was born October 27, 1838, in Norie, Konges-
lov, Niborg, Amt, Denmark, and joined the Latter-
day Saints when eighteen years of age. She came
to Utah in 1858, settled in Brigham City in 1859.
	She was the mother of four children, two
daughters surviving her.
	She was called and acted as teacher in the Re-
lief Society in 1876 and on March 13, 1878, was
called as second counselor to Mary Stark, which
position she held until she was called to preside
over the Relief Society of the Third Ward, Feb.
25, 1896, which position she held with honor until
a few months before her death, when her failing
health caused her to request and obtain honorable
release.
	She died as she had lived, a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint. Her many friends will miss her,
still to know that her sufferings are passed became
a comfort to those who loved her, and that she is
now enjoying sweet rest.
	The following resolutions were unanimously
adopted at a recent meeting of the Relief Society
of the Third Ward of Brigham City.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
His infinite love and mercy to call home our be
loved president. Sister Anna Christine Maria
Pallisen Jansen, therefore be it
	Resolved, That in her death we have lost an
earnest and faithful president and worker of the
Relief Society, one who was ever ready to help the
needy and give words of sympathy to those in
trouble.
	That we, her co-laborers, have lost a true, loving
sister, and that we will miss her words of wis-
dom and advice. But we know that God doeth all
things we[-]l, and while we miss her here, she is
happy with her husband and friends in the
eternal world.
	That we express our love and gratitude for
her unceasing labors, present a copy of these
resolutions to her bereaved family, and also that a
copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation and a copy be placed on file in the ward
record book.
			ANNA S. THOMPSON, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NEW HALL DEDICATED.
	Minutes of a meeting of the Relief Society
of the Oakley Ward, Cassia Co.. Idaho,
held in the new society hall, the principal
object being the dedication of the building
to the purpose for which it was erected,
President Isabel Martindale presiding.
	Singing by the congregation, “The
happy day is rolling on.” Opening prayer
by Patriarch Franklin Brim. Singing,
“Behold the Savior of mankind.”
	President Martindale felt pleased that the
hall had been so far completed that we could
have it dedicated, and knew that the Lord
had blessed the society in the endeavor
to build a comfortable place fo meet in.
	She then called upon Stake President
Wm. T. Jack to offer the dedicatory prayer.
	President Wm. T. Harper hoped that the
spirit of God would continue with the
meeting as it had to the present. Said
that he sometimes thought that if it were
not for the great mercy of our Heavenly
Father, it would be useles, for us to attempt
to do good, as we so often failed; but God
is full of charity and mercy and is long-
suffering, and is willing to help us as long
as we have a spirit of repentance and are
willing to go before our Father in heaven
and acknowledge our sins and ask Him in
faith for the blessings we need, for the time
is fast coming when we must live by faith,
such faith that we can go before God with-
out doubt, knowing that we will receive
the blessing that we need. It is this power
that is going to make us great on the earth.
Read a few paragraphs from the Doctrine
and Covenants regarding the responsibility
of parents in teaching their children the
principles of the Gospel, and the conse-
quence of a failure on the part of the parents
in Zion in not teaching their children these

[Column 2]
principles, and seeing to it that all children
in Zion are acquainted with the same and
are baptized at the age of eight years. He
urged the young ladies and young men of
Israel to be careful in selecting their life
companion, that they marry only those who
are full of the spirit of the Gospel, that the
fruits of their union may grow up full of
the spirit of God. This condition cannot
be brought about when one of the parents
is opposed to the Church of Jesus Christ.
Asked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters especially and the Saints in general,
that we may all feel the importance of living
the lives of Latter-day Saints.
	President Martindale then called upon
Stake President Louisa Haight, of the
Relief Society.
	Sister Haight was glad in meeting with
sisters, and that they had been blessed so
much that they had been able to build so
beautiful a hall, and that it was so nearly
out of debt.
	The Bishop’s counselor, T. W. Robbins,
congratulated the sisters on the haste in
which they had been enabled to complete
their building, and was also greatly inter-
ested in the remarks of President Harper
regarding the responsibility of the parents
in Israel teaching their children the princi-
ples of the Gospel, and the fact that if any
of our children, through our failure to do
these things, should prove untrue to the
principles of truth, that God would require
their sins at our hands, or rather would
visit their sins upon our heads. Asked the
blessing of the Lord upon those who had
labored so hard to complete their building;
also upon all the officers, both ward and
Stake, and upon all that had a desire to
further the kingdom of God.
	Brother George Craner, who had labored
so hard as a member of the building com-
mittee, was called upon to speak a few
words. He referred to the adverse con-
ditions the committee had to meet during
the erection of the building. Said that
there was almost enough money on hand to
settle for the building.
	President Martindale felt pleased with the
spirit manifest during the meeting and for
the many good instructions given by the
brethren. Said that the sisters had always
been willing to do their part in the erection
of the building or any other labor required
of them.
	Brother George Craner proposed a vote of
thanks to Brother George Bunn for the
energy displayed in laying the brick.
Carried.
	Singing, “Come go with me beyond the
sea.” Benediction by Brother George
Bunn.
				J. N. PRICE, Sec. pro tem.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORTS.
	The time has come for annual reports and
it is important that reports be sent in as soon
as possible after the close of 1900. It is not
only necessary to have Stake reports, but
wherever a Relief Society has been organized
outside Stakes, whether in the United States,
British Empire, Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland, Holland, the islands of the sea,
reports for the year 1900, from January 1
to December 31, are expected at head-
quarters.
			E. B. WELLS,
				General Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of the semi-annual conference of
the Relief Society of Oneida Stake, held in
the Preston meeting house, November 10,
1900, President Louisa B. Benson presiding. 
Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer was offered by President
Susan Grant, of Davis County. Singing,
“O, say what is truth.” Roll called, show-
ing, of Stake Board, President Louisa B.
Benson, Second Counselor Hannah Mickle-
sen and Secretary Elise B. Alder. First
Counselor Martha Lawiscli had been called
to Provo on account of death in the family.
Local presidents, ten answered and one sent
a written report.
	Minutes of the morning session of last
conference were read and approved.
	Of the priesthood there were present,
President George C. Parkinson and Brother
Peter Micklesen, of Weston; Bishop George
T. Benson and Brother William Tanner, of
Whitney.
	President Louisa B. Benson asked for the
sympathy and prayers of the sisters. Re-
ported the Stake Board as united, holding
officers’ meetings monthly also hold meet-
ing s quarterly with local officers. “We have
thirteen branches of the Relief Society. At
our last meeting ail the local presidents
were present but three. Since that time I
have met two of these, so that I can report
all the branches of the society but one,
Treasureton, expect to visit that one the
coming Monday. All are doing fairly well.
The attendance at the meetings is not what
we would like it to be, but hope the sisters
will awaken to the necessity of doing their
duty. Some have been very energetic,
having accomplished more work during the
past few months than ever before. This has
especially been the case with Preston
and Franklin. The presidents are ener-
getic and willing to do their duty. There
is a spirit of improvement manifest in our
officers’ meetings. President Susan Grant,
one of the General Board, is with us today,
has kindly come to accompany us in our
tour around the Stake to visit all the
branches. Brother Nuttall was expected,
but owing to circumstances over which he
had no control, had to postpone his visit un-
til next spring. Sister Grant and myself
have visited four branches since we met in
Franklin last Thursday, and we expect to
continue after conference until we have
held meetings with all.”
	Sister Grant said: “It is not good to talk
of our weaknesses, it gives the adversary
power over us. She was pleased to see the
priesthood with us. Had felt blessed in
visiting this Stake so far, had met so many
good brothers and sisters. It is our mission
to administer comfort to our sisters. Teach-
ers should be faithful, so that when visiting
they can stimulate others to faithfulness.
Spoke of the training of children. We
should always be subject to those who are
placed over us. The Prophet Joseph Smith
said that the duty of the Relief Society
was to save souls and to encourage their
husbands in the performance of their duties,

[Column 2]
as well as to look after the poor and afflicted.
Spoke of the law of tithing, it has been
neglected in the past, and the Lord has
been displeased with us. Spoke of the
storing of grain. Felt to reverence the
priesthood of God.
	A vocal solo, “Should you feel inclined
to censure,” was given by Sister Dora
Geddes.
	Counselor Hannah Micklesen expressed
her willingness to do whatever she was
called to do by those who are placed over
her. Thought the Relief Society was a
benefit to all.
	Sister Nellie Parkinson recited, with
much feeling, “A Thread of Thought,”
composed by Sister L. G. Richards.
	President George C. Parkinson was
pleased to be with us. He had enjoyed
the timely remarks of Sister Grant. What
glorious opportunities we have, how
wonderfully we have progressed. Referred
to the beautiful recitation given and en-
couraged mothers to trust in the Lord.
	President L. Benson spoke of the beauties
of motherhood. We have heavy burdens to
bear, but we take up our cross and are
thankful that we have been permitted to
live in this day, if we can only see our
children serving the Lord. The subject of
Sabbath breaking had just come to her
mind. Are we raising Sabbath breakers?
As mothers are we setting an example
worthy of imitation in this respect? Are
we trying to prepare for the Sabbath the
day before, that the Sunday may be a day
of rest and still our children be cared for?
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. Sing-
ing, “Lo the mighty God appearing.”
Benediction by Brother Peter Mickelson.
	Afternoon session, two o’clock p. m
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by
Brother Joseph Geddes. Singing, “How
firm a foundation.” Minutes of the after-
noon session of last conference were read
and accepted. A circular letter from the
General Beard concerning the conjoint
building to be erected in Salt Lake City for
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary, was read by the secretary. Presi-
dent Benson fully explained the same. The
General and Stake Relief Society officers
were sustained.
	Vocal solo, “Daughters of Zion,” by
Lula B. Parkinson.
	Sister Grant said: “We always have to
depend on the Lord when we speak.” She
had enjoyed the singing. Encouraged the
mothers to teach their children to sing and
told of Apostle Heber J. Grant’s persever-
ance in learning to sing. She had lived in
the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
looked forward with pleasure to the time
when she would meet him again and be
recognized by him. Related some instances
of her early life in the Church. Encouraged
the keeping of the Word of Wisdom. Spoke
of and explained the ten cent fund. Gave
an interesting outline of the plans of the
conjoint building, explained its objects and
how much it was needed by the daughters
of Zion. Bishop John Larsen, of Preston,
felt well in meeting with us, found the sis-

[Column 3]
ters to be better Latter-day Saints than the
brethren. He had enjoyed the remarks.
	President Joseph Geddes always enjoyed
hearing the sisters speak, especially those
who had lived in the time of the Prophet
Joseph. This is a work of great magnitude,
the sisters seem awake to their calling.
	Sister Phebe McNeil, President of Fair-
view Relief Society, spoke a short time.
She had been much pleased with the in-
structions we had received during the con-
ference, especially wtth what had been said
in regard to Sabbath breaking.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Come thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Brother Joseph
Geddes.
			ELISE B. ALDER, Sec.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money. 						TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah. 
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts. 
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar [---] thousands, and compute said
	int[--]est four times a year
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD. 
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .
See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,			D. E. Burley,
	Gen. Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. &T A.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol. 29	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1901.	Nos. 18 & 19


CONTENT.
Home and Ideals.............Alice Merrill Horne	81
Bazar Letter..................Carrie Chapman Catt	81
Domestic Science..............Susa Young Gates	82
Nottingham Relief Society..........Edith Cable	82
Thoughts on the New Century.............P E. C.	83
Mima..........................................Leila Marler	83
A Friendly Letter................Luella M. Rhodes	83
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton................	86
In Memoriam..................................................	87
R. S. Report....................................................	87
Woman’s Congress in Paris.....................E. J.	88
Editorial—L. D. S. Building Dedicated.........	84
A Double Birthday Celebration......................	84
A Pleasant Birthday Party...............................	85
Young Ladies’ Bazar.......................................	85
Editorial Notes................................................	86
Poetry—Resignation...........................Sygnet	81
Glimpses Backward and forward, L. L. G. R		83


RESIGNATION.
She lay like a lily in her cold, white bed
	With her hands crossed close on her breast,
While over her eyelids and lips there spread,
	And brooded, the spirit of rest.
But my heart was torn with a mighty grief.
	And I cried who talks of God’s will?
To snatch from our home this half-ripened sheaf?
	Methought her lips whispered “God’s will.” 

With a startled tear, I knelt at her side,  
	And prayed an agonized prayer:
“My dear, if thou hear’st and knowest beside,
	Tell me, sweet, why liest thou there!
Have I failed in my duty, forgotten my part?
	Have I carelessly said, ‘All is well?’
Exposed thee too blindly to death’s cruel dart?’
	The pale lips but echoed, “All’s well!”

“O, if I’d done this, or had not done so,
	Perhaps thou would’st still be with me!
Yes, I have been harsh, failed my true love to show,
	’Tis from these Death setteth thee free.
But ah, if thou knowest my pain and regret,
	And the prayers I have prayed unto Heaven
Mayhap thou’lt forgive, and never forget!”
	But the lips only echoed “To Heaven!”

Then o’er my sad heart, there fell like a balm,
	The peace which He giveth His own,
I dried up my tears, my spirit grew calm,
	I knew that I was not alone.
The sparrow He sees, feeds the raven wild,
	And leadeth the weary to rest,
Then why should I doubt He called to my child
	For her sweet lips echoed, “To rest!”

I will trust in His grace, I will not bemoan,
	For that which hath gone before,
He knoweth my weakness, yet makes me His own,
	I will love Him and serve Him the more.
He helps me and He alone knoweth how, 
	For no one but He is the Judge!
I kissed her white lips to seal up my vow,
	And they murmured “Lo, He is the Judge!”

Be at peace, O my heart, thy trials are known,
	And thy struggles will some day cease,
For the sweetne s of death is victory’s crown.
	He giveth His children release,
Be at rest, O, my heart, you strive not alone,
	Nor alone feel the chastening rod,
Give up thy dead ! He but taketh His own!
	She goeth to rest with her God?
								SYGNET.


[Column 1]
HOME AND IDEALS.
	Whether built of logs or marble, be the
surroundings picturesque or desolate, a spot
marked by squalor or opulence, the four
walls of home close in and nurse the best
there is in man.
	The love for mother in the tender babe
grows upward to the stars to the “Fear of
God.”
	The love for little brothers and sisters
goes out from widely stretched arms to the
“Universal Brotherhood of man.” 
	The birds on the garden shrubs unfold

[Column 2]
their secrets to the growing child, from
birds, blossoms, fruit seed, over and again
he learns his first lesson of his relation to
God and nature.
	If art reigns in the home there will grow
out of it beautiful parks, streets, thorough-
fares and cities.
	If art reigns in the home it will be sur-
rounded and filled with the influence of
Honesty, Purpose, Work, Simplicity,
Sentiment, Peace, Unity and Harmony,
while banished must be Coarseness, Vulgar-
ity, Deceit, Slothfulness, Shallowness,
Gaudiness, Discord and Unrest.
	Life in the influence of art trains the soul
to respond to the God-like in man and
nature, to feel the beautiful and to cherish
and follow higher ideals. Soul greatness is
the ultimate end and aim of all effort.
	When this life is done I believe men will
be judged more by what they think and feel
and love and know than for the deeds done
in the flesh.
	A life consumed by following society’s
unprofitable and foolish fashions has a par-
allel in that of a woman who never takes a
moment for study and self-improvement but
makes herself a very slave to her home.
The home must be kept sweet and clean
but the brain is as prone to get cobwebby as
the best room.
	A little regular study in some line that is
interesting will be a source of rest and in-
spiration. In every soul there is a spark of
greatness, there is a feeling, a desire to
create something beautiful. Do not crush
that feeling. Read Christ’s lesson about
the Talents. Do you ever stop and consider
that God has given you mental power to be
used and improved for your own good? If
you have a gift in composing pursue it to
the end of your days. If your talent is
music, drawing, needlework, designing,
cabinet making, farming or any other line
of work, do not neglect it, but put into it the
best you are capable of giving.
	And right here let me say that there are
great opportunities for art in both house-
keeping and farming. Give the furnishing
of a room careful study, and, “be it ever so
humble,” it will be a work of art. Give
thought to the arrangement of your shrubs,
gardens, trees, house, sheds, lawns, and
your farm will be a living picture.
	So, I say, into that which you undertake
put the best workmanship your head and
hand can give.
	It must be the mass of individual effort
that will place Utah ahead of her sister
states, in art, in edcucation, in music, in in-
dustry. If the growing child is surrounded
with such influences that naturally feed his
sense of art it will help him to place the
purpose of his life where it should be—above
the Dollar mark, above all the trifling things
of the world. He will do things well, he
will labor to make a work of art rather than
to make money. It is the careless, dis-
honest, unprofessional, shoddy work, the
motto, “Anything that will sell” that
threatens the success of any community.
	Let Utah’s sons and daughters see the
danger which threatens and rise to their
duties.

[Column 3]
Let us not only have the best music in the
land but let others come to Utah for our
silks and laces, paintings and statuary.
	Let them come to learn our modes of
cooking, sewing, gardening, farming,
house building and all things that are
beautiful when well done.
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE.


BAZAR LETTER.
Mrs. J. Fewson Smith:
	We have been so overwhelmed with the
work of the Bazar that we are away behind
with our correspondence. I trust this will
explain to you my neglect of your letter. I
would be glad to have you read this letter
to others who are interested, in order that
one writing may do for all.
	Your goods were all properly received.
Mrs. Gilmer came from Boston to take
charge of the Utah exhibit. We had a five
pointed star to represent the suffrage states
and the goods from all four of them were
put in this booth. The Indian things
sold like hot cakes. You sent a splendid
exhibit, we thought. The doll was the ad-
miration of all. Mrs. McKinley sent a doll
beautifully dressed in white, and that
and the Utah doll were rivals; and there
was an amusing difference of opinion as to
which was the finer doll.
	It did not sell to please us, however. We
found that people did not buy expensive
dolls and that the cheaper ones went faster.
We had so many of these beautiful dolls
that we could find no ready market for
them. However, there was a return from
the dolls not measured in money. Nothing
advertised us more than the report of
the beautiful dolls from the Governors’
wives. Reporters found in that fact much
of interest to write up, and the first thing
the people wanted to see when they came to
the Bazar were the beautiful dolls. They
were greatly admired and I think were the
source of attraction which sold many other
goods. For this reason I can feel that even
though they sold below their actual value,
they were not a loss.
	The Utah doll was a costly one but we
were only able to sell it for $13.00 or $13.50.
We sold it at auction the last night. The
little girl who got it was made very happy
by her possession, but did not realize what a
bargain she had. However, as I have said
before, although this was far below its
cost, it did its good work for us in other
ways.
	The one thing which seems to me most
cruel about the Bazar is that so many things
have to be sold below their value. This
was a heart-rending thing to me all the
way through the Bazar, and when I saw
the chairmen of booths marking down their
goods. I have never had any experience in
bazars. I was always told that this was
the way they always did in bazars, and I
found that most purchasers were bargain-
hunters, and bargains they found.
	I think at this writing that our balance
will be $700.00. We have still some bills
to pay and some receipts to come in, so we


do not know how we stand. I think this is
it, however.
	I want to thank you good women in Utah
for all your good work and co-operation.
You are noble friends of the cause, and I
assure you we appreciate you every one.
We were very glad Mrs. Gilmer could come.
She had the misfortune to catch cold and
very nearly lose her voice, and consequent-
ly worked with great suffering throughout
the Bazar. She was loyal help, however,
and we appreciated her.
		Yours faithfully,
			CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT.
	December 29, 1900.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		DOMESTIC SCIENCE.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	Some people are vaguely alarmed and
others are mildly sarcastic when the term
domestic science is used. Why, say the
first, should we invade the sacred precincts
of the home, and try to fashion and shape
into laws that which God has given
women and men divine instinct to perfect?
Those who choose to be sarcastic, say flip-
pantly, “I can sweep a floor, make bread
and keep house as well as any woman in
this town, and what’s the use of people
making a fad out of this domestic science?
My mother taught me how to wash by
making me do it, and that’s the way I am
teaching my daughters; I have no need for
classes in a school, nor clubs, nor books
even; any women with ‘get up’ in her can
keep house.”
	Just so women talked about sewing
when Elias Howe went into his little shop
to study out the principle of the shuttle.
But science did not wait for the woman who
was a hundred years behind the times; the
sewing machine was perfected by Howe,
and the poorest as well as the most con-
servative women of today uses the tool of
science to hasten her flying needle.
	The man or the woman in this Church
who is narrow and bigoted has not yet
grasped the true meaning of the Gospel.
Progression is the key to the door of
heaven. What made and makes Joseph
Smith, Brigham Young and Lorenzo Snow
the peers of the most advanced theorists of
the Church and of the world today? Their
power of receptivity. The wisdom and
prescience which gleans out the truth
from every so called fad and uses it to the
utmost advantage.
	No one grows old who remains pro-
gressive.
	Domestic science is merely the term
which is used to cover all the labors and
problems of home life. To discuss these
labors, to solve these problems, this is
what many wise and noble men and
women are doing all over the civilized
world.
	Every woman, rich or poor, is ready to
admit that housework is drudgery. This is
hardly true, either. It is work, hard work
and taxing work; work that requires for its
perfect service, a wide capacity and great
physical strength. But it can only be
drudgery to the ignorant or to the mean.
Work is the salvation, the solace, the hope
and even the redemption, in a way, of
mankind.
	Now, less than a hundred years ago, men
grasped the thought that almost all classes
of hand labor, in their own sphere of activ-
ity, could be better accomplished by the
use of suitable machines. Before this, inven-

[Column 2]
tions were sought mostly for transportation, or
for the acquisition of wealth; for this latter
purpose the science of alchemy—as chemistry
was then called—was devoted chiefly to the
search for transforming metals into gold, or
similar purposes.
	It is not very long since men discovered
that farm labor, from the planting of wheat
to the making of butter, could better be
done by steel and steam than by the tedious
hand work of the centuries.
	Men, naturally, made haste to devise ways
and means to throw down their own heavy
and rude implements of toil, and to pick up in
their stead the light handles and electrical
buttons of modern machinery.
	Women’s toil has also been lessened and
lightened. The spinning, weaving, candle-
making, knitting, sewing, canning, milk-
ing, churning and many other old-time
house duties, have been taken from the
hands of women by iron wheels and
leathern bands.
	But, alas, neither men nor women have
any more time to devote to the intellectual
or the spiritual culture of their three-fold
natures, nor, indeed, have they as much.
The poor man of today has wants and
needs which even the king on his throne
never so much as yearned for two hundred
years ago.
	Life has become far more complicated
with all these conditions and instead of
severe simplicity of diet, dress and amuse-
ment being the characteristic of the poor and
the ignorant, as it once was, it is now
rather the mark of the truly refined and in-
telligent. For now, in direct contrast to
life fifty years ago, the struggle is, not to
break away from the naturalness and health-
fullness of a simple home life, but to resist
the current of mad recklessness and extrava-
gant worldliness which sweeps with deafen-
ing force against the very doors of the
home itself.
	Those who, in the world, are studying
this question of domectic science, are more
deeply concerned with the increase of
facilities for more and better equippe
domestic labor than with the simplyfying
the home life.
	But the true Latter-day Saint recognizes
the fact that there is no place in the religion
of Christ for bond and free, nor for mistress
and maid. All serve, all are servants.
There are the young and inexperienced,
and the matured and wise; that is all!
	Yet, caught with the whirlwind of fashion
and frivolity which is sweeping over the
earth, we, too, have our domestic problems.
And not all of these problems are due to
worldliness, some are the natural conse-
quence of the economic conditions of the
day. However, our problems are different
in many ways and we must study them
from our own point of view.
	We are told that our principal mission on
this earth is to save souls. Not alone to be
saved, remember, but to save others.
Saviors upon Mount Zion! It is a term of
solemn import! No trifling, no carelessness
of purpose nor act should be found in the
mature Latter-day Saint.
	Souls to save! Either by love and ser-
vice to the living, or by service and love for
the dead! Is not that our mission?
	The Elders of our people have this same
mission upon them, and they, too, have
their problems to meet and solve. But the
women have theirs, and it is to them we
should turn our attention with zeal and de-
votion.

[Column 3]
	Is it sufficient that women shall rear and
train a family of children? Perhaps. But
there may be twenty-five years before she be-
gins, and twenty-five years after she is
through that are her own; and if she does
nothing before and nothing after towards
the salvation of other souls besides the
children of her own body, she will be a
small factor in the preservation and exalta-
tion of herself and her own.
	And what is it that prevents the women
of this people from entering fully into the
service of Christ? Is it the rearing of chil-
dren? Nay, only about one half of them,
young, mature aad old are mothers of
families. Ask any candid, intelligent
woman this question, and whether she be
the mother of a family or not, she will
frankly answer, “It is my housework that
keeps me tied ever at home.”
	Men have accepted work as a blessing;
women have multiplied work to themselves
when they were relieved of former burdens.
What then is the duty of our women?
	To study their own conditions, to prayer-
fully consider the possible solution of the
vexed problem of housework and to pre-
pare themselves to be true exponents of
Domestic Science, while they labor side by
side with husband and son as saviors on
Mount Zion.


NOTITNGHAM RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The members of the Nottingham Relief
Society held their annual party on Boxing
day, December 26, 1900. A hearty invita-
tion was extended to all. A committee of
young ladies was appointed to decorate the
room with Christmas decorations, the tables
being also tastefully arranged and decorated
with flowers and ferns.
	Tea commenced at 5 p. m., and about
sixty persons, including Elders, Saints and
some nine or ten strangers, who had
been induced to come, sat down and par-
took of a hearty meal.
	After tea a short program was rendered,
consisting of an opening address by Presi-
dent Stephen Walker, songs, duets, etc. A
stump speech was also successfully delivered
by Professor Muddlechump. The patriotic
spirit of the Elders found voice in their
national anthem, “The Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” all joining in the chorus with a ready
response. The rest of the evening was
devoted to games and various amuse-
ments were indulged in to make the evening
a success. Refreshments were also on hand
for all those who required them, the pro-
ceeds of which were to be given into the
relief fund for the benefit of the poor.
	The amusements were brought to
a close by singing “O, my Father.” Bene-
diction was pronounced by Conference
President Stephen Walker.
			EDITH CABLE, Sec.


MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, president
of the National Suffrage Association, spoke
in behalf of equal suffrage at the debate
held by the League for Political Education
on January 11, in New York City. The
League invited the Anti-Suffrage Associa-
tion to send a speaker to present the nega-
tive, but the “Antis” had no one who was
willing to meet Mrs. Catt in argument.
Mrs. Lillian W. Betts, a member of the
League, supported the negative from the
floor. The vote stood in favor of suffrage
33 to 3.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GLIMPSES BACKWARD AND FORWARD

Written for Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Jane
S. Richards on their birthday, January 31, 1901.

Sometimes, in thought, we seem to look within
The Spirit-world, where life and works begin. 
Not yet a hundred years ago, there stood,
Two sister spirits, gentle, fair and good,
Zina and Jane together worked and walked,
And often of their wondrous future talked.

Once Zina said, “I’m called and now must go
To be embodied on that earth below!”
I think they wept, because they likely knew
That mortal years must pass—if only two,
Ere Jane should follow; but they said, “Ah, well!
’Tis Father’s plan, and we will not rebel.”

And so they parted; Zina came to earth,
A tiny, struggling infant at its birth,
And as a deep sleep had enwrapt her mind,
She had forgotten all she left behind.
But—sure enough! in two years, to a day,
Came Janie, following in the self-same way!

Forgetting all, and struggling now for breath,
Scarce nearer unto life than unto death;
Yet born to live, and help the marvelous plan
Of eternal unto fallen man.
And, since those spirits found to earth the way,
Is Seventy-eight and Eighty years today.

As in two different towns their births were cast,
They met not until their childhood years had passed.
But when the Gospel in each heart found place,
And drew the two together face to face.
There must have been a tender, mutual thrill
Of recognition, which connects them still.

And all the way, for sixty years or more,
They’ve worked together, as they did before
In that first life; they stand as there they stood,
Two faithful sisters, loving, true and good.
One may precede the other onward; then,
As when they parted first, they’ll weep again.

Look forward, Seventy-eight and Eighty years;
What rapturous scenes of glory there appears!
Zina and Jane their birthday celebrate,
What noble mansions, and the throngs how great!
Prophets and Kings and Queens!—account here
	stops;
I’ll write it in its time. The curtain drops!
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


THOUGHTS ON THE CLOSING CENTURY.

	What strides have been made in all
directions, in science, particularly, what
great discoveries have been made. What
mighty wars have desolated the land. But
God rules over all, and from the ashes of
battle arises a better state of feeling, a
nearer fellowship, a drawing together of
nations. In no department do we observe a
greater change than in the religious world.
Such an intolerant spirit as was manifest
between the different sects and denomina-
tions of forms of religion within my remem-
brance. The Master’s leaven of Love is
working as we come to know Him better, to
have His spirit pervade our hearts. We
see less faults and more to admire in those
people of other faiths, different from ours.
	And I believe the good work will go on,
slowly but surely, until Christ’s kingdom
shall be eatablished in every land.
	But, ah, the wickedness that still exists,
and greatest of all is caused by the liquor
traffic! What an awful curse it is, what
misery and degradation it causes! If my
faith were not strong in the final triumph
of good over evil, I should be in despair;
but the world moves and I hope
and trust towards the right. The growth
must be upward. God goes forward ever,
oven amidst our tears and fears, and He will
prevail.
	This century will bring about great
changes, it must be for the better. The bad
must die, the good lives on forever, ah, yes,
forever!
						P. E. C.


MIMA.
		LELLA MARLER.

	Was her earthly mission finished? God
knows best! He who is infinite, He who
is wise has again received His beautiful
flower, His bright jewel—and now we
shall see sweet Mima’s face and form no
more.
	Young and noble and happy and beauti-
ful, Oh, yes, divinely beautiful! The
loveliness of her soul was portrayed in her
countenance. Pure and good as the angels
in heaven.
	But disease is stern and pitiless, and in
all his hideousness he siezed upon our dear
one. Science and skill were of no avail;
fervent prayers were not heeded. Slowly
she faded, patient and faithful to the last.
The final spark of life died out, and there
she lay, in her marble beauty, a faint smile
still lingering on her face—dead.
	God had called her spirit to another
sphere, and with great effort we whispered,
“Thy will be done.”
	She was buried in the little churchyard.
Only a tiny mound dedicated to God and
laden with nature’s sweetest flowers, that
is all; and yet a home has lost its brightest
hope, its dearest comfort, its sweetest joy.
A village has lost its ministering angel.
The world has lost a queen, and in heaven
a priestess is welcomed.
	She came to earth like a bright sunbeam,
shedding rays of love and hope on all who
came within her radius. Her influence,
unlike the sunbeam’s, was so luminous
that its light will never cease, but will be- 
come brighter and warmer day by day; and
live on in the hearts of some, as stars of hope
leading them on to nobler, better deeds,
through time and through eternity.
	Her book of life is written. Not one
page is stained with a dark or fearful deed.
Every chapter contains some beautiful
thought, some high desire, some encourag-
ing whisper or some worthy deed.
	To know her was to love her. To be in her
presence was an incentive to seek a nobler,
better way of living. She carried hope
with her. Her sweet, musical voice com-
forted you always; her low, gentle words
cheered all who heard them; her bright
smile cast fears and worries aside, her
gentle touch banished pain.
	And now she is gone! A sad chord is
touched in the hearts of all who knew her.
There is a tremor of the lips of those who
speak her name. When she is mentioned
it is in a low, gentle voice, as if her life
were too sacred to be discussed. And un-
consciously one lingers lovingly upon that
sweet name, “Mima.”
	When we kneel in sacred prayer, we im-
plore the Father to heal the bleeding
hearts of her loved ones.
	When we think of her, a sweet calm
enters our souls.
	We lisp her name and the gentle zephyrs,
kissed by the perfumed roses, steal through
the moonlit window, catch the whisper and
it is vibrated through the house, borne
away to the gurgling brooks, carried
through grassy dells and leafy trees, and
thence to the mighty ocean, and then on
and on to the realms above; and as the
echoes are dying away in the distance, we
hear the faint murmur, “Mima, sweet
Mima.”
	Were we all more like Mima, how
blessed the world would be!


A FRIENDLY LETTER. 
	Gleneyre, Colorado, Dec. 20, 1900.
My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	I write so you will get this in time for the
last meeting of the Press Club of 1900. I
do not want the sun of the new century to
shine upon me knowing that I owe club
dues. I send them to you, not knowing
who the new officers are, and as the Press
Club without Mrs. E. B. Wells would be
like the play of Hamlet with Hamlet left
out, I know you are there.
	I visited in Denver for about six weeks
after leaving Salt Lake, then I came up to
visit a friend who lives eighty miles from
the railroad, we were cut off from all
sociability, only within ourselves. The
wild natural beauty and the spicy breath of
pine woods and mountains always suggest
to me “The Funeral of Moses,” where it
says:
	“The dark rocked pines, with tossing plumes,
		Over his bier shall wave,
	And God’s own hand in that lonely land, 
		To lay him in his grave.”
	Friendship induced me to come to this
romantic spot, and when physical endur-
ance is no longer able to stand the butterfly
existence of city life, this is a beau ideal
habitation for the “Rest for the Weary.”
	I would that I had the gift to describe the
beautiful sunsets, the elevatiou is 8,500
feet, and if an artist could transfer the
beautiful scenes to canvas, all of the gor-
geous tints which are intermingling in the
glowing colors of nature, his fame and for-
tune would be made.
	The house is picturesque, large and
roomy, built of logs. Situated aloft on
the very summit of a mountain range,
yet nestling in the shelter of pine-covered
heights, sweeping into circles around it.
	The ranch of 1,100 acres is watered by
the purest and coldest of running streams,
the atmosphere clear and bracing, the little
pine draines or gulches around them put me
in mind of “The Deserted Trail.”

“And half way up there stands all slim and white,
A grove of quaking asps,
And often there when morn the mountain clasps,
I’ve stood in mute delight
Betwixt each silvery stem you catch a glance
At ranges far and blue,
And one great peak that leaps so straight and true,
A mighty ice-tipped lance.
Within that grove in August late I’ve found, 
A thousand columbines
Flaunting their purple heads so fair and fine,
Carpeting all the ground.
Amid the city’s rush and smothered wail,
see that mountain shine,
The quaking aspens and the Columbine.
The old deserted trail.”

	This describes those little gulches so
much better than I could. I have a gallery
of brain pictures stowed away, but my pen
is not equal to the occasion.
	I want to get back to Utah by the first of
the year, but my home for most of 1901 will
be in Price, Utah. I shall endeavor to
keep in touch with the Press Club, as I en-
joy it so much. Remember me to all
friends.
		Sincerely yours,
			LUELLA M. RHODES.


It is said that no funeral in England ever
called out such a demonstration of respect
and regret as that of Queen Victoria, and
that the only one in modern times which
came near it was the funeral of the Duke of
Wellington.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
c<o>unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 15, & MAR. 1, 1901.


L. D. S. BUILDING DEDICATED.
	The Latter-day Saints new Business
College was formally dedicated with appro-
priate ceremonies on Thursday, February
7, 1901, exercises commencing at 2 p. m.
	The assembly room was handsomely dec-
orated, the stand with flowers and bunting
in red, white and blue, and flags suitably
draped. Portraits of the First Presidency
in a group were hung above the stand, and
on the wall either side being photographs of
Dr. Maeser and the Board of Education.
	Many palms and pots of flowers in bloom
adorned the window seats.
	The exercises opened with a quartette,
“Alma Mater,” Lizzie Thomas Edwards,
Mabel Cooper, Thomas Ashworth and H.
S. Ensign. Prayer was offered, after that
a trio, Mabel Cooper, Thomas Ashworth
and H. S. Ensign, followed with an
address by President Lorenzo Snow and
a song, “My Valley Home,” Mrs. Edwards
and quartette.
	Presentation speech, Chairman Building
Committee, Bishop Geo. Romney. Accept-
ance, Hon. Angus M. Cannon, Chairman
Board of Trustees. Piano solo, Prof. J. J.
McClellan. Dedicatory prayer, President
Geo. Q. Cannon. Singing, “America,” by
the students. Future of the College glow-
ingly portrayed by Elder J. E. Taylor. Flag
Presentation by S. H. Derbyshire, student,
also one of the Utah Volunteers. Acceptance
of the Flag, Prof. J. H. Paul. Singing,
“The Star Spangled Banner.” Benediction
by Hon. Brigham Young.
	The ceremonies were all impressive and
the remarks were well chosen as “apples
of gold in pictures of silver.” The dedi-
catory prayer was a masterpiece of its kind,
if the term is admissible.
	The banquet below to which so many
hundreds sat down was tastefully arranged,
one wondered where so many sweet violets
had been found in February, and the sim-
plicity of style manifest is a reccommend to
the college girls, and in much better taste
than a more elaborate menu would have
been.
	Music and dancing continued until mid-
night with the young students and their
friends.
	The success of the Building Committee
has been beyond the most ardent expecta-
tions when the plan was first devised to
build immediately after the land had been
donated. May the College prosper as brisk-
ly and successfully and the students achieve
unprecedented success along all useful


lines of education, and may the spirit that
brooded over the dedication ever remain
within those walls, that the young people
may be inspired to pursue the noblest course
of life, cultivating the highest virtues, truth,
honesty and uprightness, integrity, patriot-
sm and chivalry, until it shall be said as
prophesied of old:
	“That our sons may be as plants grown
in their youth; that our daughters may be
as corner-stones, polished after the simili-
tude of a palace.”


[Column 1]
A DOUBLE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
	The 31st of January, 1900, was made
memorable by the General Board of the
Relief Society whose members celebrated
appropriately the birthday of the President
and Vice-President of the organization.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, the President,
was born on January 31st, 1821, and was
consequently 80 years of age. Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, First Vice-President, was born
on January 31st, 1823, two years later.
	Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Richards opened their
handsome and commodious residence on A
Street, in this city, for the birthday party
which was set for 2 p. m., Thursday the
31st. The parlors and library were beauti-
fully decorated with vines and white carna-
tions, the design being principally green
and white, though pink and American
beauty roses were disposed tastefully in
suitable places and added to the brilliancy
of the effect. The two honored guests of
the occasion were seated side by side in the
front parlor, where they received the con-
gratulations of their distinguished friends.
	President Lorenzo Snow and wife were
among the first to arrive. President George
Q. Cannon and wife, President Joseph F.
Smith and wife, Apostle Brigham Young
and wife, Apostle John Henry Smith and
wife, Bishop John R. Winder and wife and
Mrs. W. B. Preston, President Angus M.
Cannon and wife, President Joseph E. Tay-
lor and wife, President C. W. Penrose and wife,
Bishop O. F. Whitney, Mrs. Robert Pat-
rick, Counselor Wm. Barton and wife; also
Mrs. Julia C. Howe, Mrs. Mary Alice
Lambert, Mrs. William Jennings, Mrs.
Elizabeth Webb and Dr. E. S. Barney; also
Mrs. N. Twiss Young, Margaret P. and
Amelia F. Young and Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall, Mr. Chariton Jacobs and wife, and his
son, Zebulon and wife. The Ogden party
were Hon. C. C. Richards and Mrs. Josephine
R. West, Mrs. D. H. Perry, Mrs. William
Driver and Professor Moench and wife, Mr.
and Mrs. Walker West, Mr. and Mrs. John
Herrick, Elder Samuel W. Richards and
wife, Mrs. Maria W. Wilcox, Mrs. H. P.
Richards, Mrs. Heber John Richards, Elder
Levi W. Richards and wife, Mr. and Mrs.
W. B. Dougall, Mr. Hugh Dougall, Mrs.
Mary C. Cannon, Misses Grace and Vera
Cannon and Miss Clarice Dougall.
	Two distinguished guests were Elder
Nathan Tanner, father of Mrs. F. S. Rich-
ards, and his sister, Mrs. Maria Lyman,
mother of Apostle F. M. Lyman. Of the
General Board, besides the two senior presi-
dents mentioned, there were Presidents
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah Jane Can-
non, E. B. Wells, Romania B. Pratt, Susan
Grant, Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards,
Rebecca Standring, Julia P. M. Farnsworth,
Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Annie T. Hyde.
	There were a number of others invited who
for various reasons could not be present, but
the party was an exceedingly pleasant one

[Column 2]
and all seemed to enjoy meeting the two
veteran women, whose good works of love 
and charity and benevolence are known 
throughout Israel.
	At one long table in the library were 
seated Sisters Zina Young and Jane S.
Richards and President and Mrs. Snow, 
President and Mrs. Cannon, President and 
Mrs. Smith, Brigham and Mrs. Young, 
John Henry and Mrs. Smith, Sisters B. W. 
Smith and Amelia F. Young, Mrs. Maria
Lyman and Mr. Nathan Tanner, Sen.
	Small tables in the parlors accommodated
the other guests. President Snow pro-
nounced the blessing. The dinner was de-
licious and admirably served. During the
dinner telegrams of congratulation were
read from absent members of the family and 
from friends. Also some letters containing
both congratulations and regrets for absence.
	After the guests had partaken of the
bounteous repast tables were cleared and
President Snow was invited to make a few
remarks. He responded briefly, speaking
of the long acquaintance he had enjoyed
with the sisters whose birthday was
being celebrated and congratulating them
upon the success they had made of their
life work, and wishing them happiness and
long life here and an eternity of glory
hereafter. Alluded to the mothers in
heaven and referred to the beautiful hymn
of his sister, Eliza, with which he believed
we were all familiar.
	President George Q. Cannon spoke next.
He eulogized the lives of these good 
sisters, and alluded to the trials through
which they had passed without wavering in 
their faith, and dwelt much on the integrity
of the Saints, who had endured suffering for
principle and to establish righteousness.
	President Joseph F. Smith followed in a
similar strain, noting the great strength of
character, fortitude and endurance of the 
women who had helped to lay the founda-
tion of righteous principles in the early 
days, and of the great blessings in store for
the faithful mothers in Israel. He also 
congratulated them on having lived so 
many years in such wonderful times, having
known the Prophet Joseph and others who 
had succeeded him, and said many more 
good and excellent things.
	Sister Zina responded in a few words of
grateful appreciation and spoke of her long
experience in the Church and her great love
for the Latter-day Saints and the work of 
the last days.
	Elder Hugh Dougall then sang “The
Holy City,” and thrilled every heart pres- 
ent with the melody of his superb voice.
	Elder John Henry Smith made a brief 
address representing the quorum of the
Apostles.
	Bishop John R. Winder spoke briefly and
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith expressed her
love for the work in a few well chosen
words, alluding to the days of Joseph and
some of her own personal experiences, and
her deep appreciation of the blessings en-
joyed by the Saints.
	Elder Nathan Tanner, who was one of
the oldest member in the Church, gave a 
few of his ideas of the past and present of 
the Latter-day work.
	Elder Samuel W. Richards was one of 
the speakers and gave some reminiscences 
of his acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph. 
	Elder Dougall, by request, rendered 
another sacred song entitled, “The Palms,”
his voice and expression doing ample justice 
to the theme and delighting the audience. 
Poems were read by Sisters Susa Young


Gates, L. L. Greene Richards and Ruth
inda H. Moench. Mrs. Richards poem
appears in this number, the others will be
given in a later number.
	President Jane S. Richards in a few
appropriate remarks expressed her feelings
at the honor shown and spoke of her great
love for the Relief Society work in which
she delighted and urged the younger sisters
to become acquainted with the labors of the
sisters who were now actively engaged
in the organization.
	During the evening souvenir cards with a
very small picture of Mrs. Young and Mrs.
Richards were given each guest. The cards
were tied with white ribbon and contained a
motto suited to the work in which they have
spent so many years. Sister Zina’s motto is
"Charity never faileth,” Sister Richard’s,
“He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord.”
	At the close of the impromptu exercises,
for no program had been prepared before-
hand by the committee, the audience stand-
ing sang “Praise God from whom all bless-
ings flow,” and Patriarch John Smith pro-
nounced the benediction.
	The spirit of the gathering was heavenly
and the party was certainly one to be re-
membered by all who were present. The
committee of the General Board of the Re-
lief Society feel grateful to all, who by their
presence and their generous words of appre-
ciation and blessing upon these noble and
devoted mothers in Israel, added to the suc-
cess of the entertainment, and especially ex-
press their thanks for the hospitality of
Brother and Sister F. S. Richards who so
generously gave their home and heartily
welcomed the invited guests.
	The General Board only regretted that so
many were absent that had been invited,
and that it was not possible to entertain all
the dearly beloved friends, associates and
fellow-laborers of Sisters Young and Rich-
ards, who have given so many years of
faithful service for the advancement of
women in all that pertains to a higher life
here and an exaltation hereafter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson invited a few
friends to her new residence on Friday,
February 8, to celebrate her birthday,
though the party was really given in honor
of Sister Zina and the General Board of the
Relief Society of which she is a member.
Congratulations and hearty good wishes
were showered upon Sister Stevenson and
her pretty home was radiant with glowing
coal fires in the bright new grates[-] and
though the day was not so pleasant without,
rather blustering, yet within was a beautiful
spirit of peace and love and good will.
	A sumptuous dinner had been prepared
and the table was handsomely decorated
with carnations and roses. Covers were
laid for fourteen and a happy party it was
indeed who sat down to partake of the good
things. Sisters Zina D. H. Young, Jane S.
Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline
B. Wells, Julia C. Howe, Emma S. Wood-
ruff, Maria W. Wilcox, Romania B. Pratt,
Maria Y. Dougall, Julina L. Smith, Emily
S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Annie
T. Hyde and the hostess herself.
	Sister Zina asked the blessing upon the
feast. Conversation was general and en-
livening and the time passed so swiftly that
the ladies could scarcely believe they had
lingered so long over the dinner table chat-
ting and complimenting the hostess, until it


was nearly time to take leave of their genial
friend and sister.
	The EXPONENT adds its best wishes.
A long life, happiness and prosperity for
Sister Stevenson and many more happy
birthdays with old friends and new ones to
cheer and gladden her heart.


[Column 1]
YOUNG LADIES' BAZAR.
	The young ladies of the Fourth Ward,
Provo, having in mind the need of a Social
Hall, opened a Bazar, hoping to raise
means to help build a suitable place for
musicales and ward entertainments, and
they have made many articles useful and
ornamental, the workmanship of their own
hands, that are very creditable and make a
good showing and sell well. They also
have home made candy and good lemonade
for sale. The Bazar is in S. S. Jones’ store,
a commodious place, and the large room is
lined on both sides all the way down the
building with booths, prettily draped and
curtained in colors, and strikingly pretty
girls in quaint costumes have charge of
some of the booths, while others, where
more substantial articles are sold, are pre-
sided over by young matrons, who seemed
to be quite as attractive to customers, in
the way of pleasing conversation, as the
younger sisterhood.
	The undertaking is a very commendable
one. Each evening they have a change of
program up stairs in the hall to entertain
the public, at ten cents a piece. On the
Tuesday evening to which the Governor
and others from Salt Lake had been especi-
ally invited, a fine musical program was in
the hands of Prof. Anthon H. Lund, Jr.,
and consisted of choice selections from
great composers, as well as a few simple
ballads which always add to the enjoy-
ment of the audience, filling the gap be-
tween the exalted tones of the higher and
more classical music, and the coming down,
so to speak, of the audience, who cannot
quite, keep up the enthusiasm consequent
Upon the intenseness of the soul-inspiring
music of the great masters.
	Prof. Lund and his coterie of singers and
musicians did themselves proud on the oc-
casion, and indeed when it came to the
speaking, one could not find fitting words
to express the delight such music had in-
spired in the hearts of the assembly.
Governor Wells was in a happy mood and
never fails to make a good impression, and
his aunt, who accompanied him, made a few
brief remarks, touching upon the future
destiny of the young people of Utah.
	The hall was crowded to overflowing and
it is ardently hoped a good sum of
money was realized, for the program was
worth it.
	Then came the banquet to which Gover-
nor Wells and other dignitaries sat down
and feasted. Mrs Susa Young Gates was
toastmistress, and her gift in this line is
well known. She shines brilliantly in this
sort of role.
	The banquet was a sumptuous affair and
the table decorations, roses and ferns, were
both beautiful and fragrant. Mayor Taylor
pronounced the blessing. Young girls in
pretty costumes, with smiling faces, waited
upon the numerous guests. It was a festive
gathering. Many of the toasts were re-
sponed to in the wittiest manner, and a little
delightful sparring between the toastmis-
tress and one of the ladies, gave zest to the
occasion.
	The Governor was, as usual, brilliant

[Column 2]
and original in his response to the toas
“Utah and Her People.” Miss Reynolds
gave a literary dissertation, and Prof. Brim-
hall soared high, but that is to be expected
of professors. There were also others, too,
who acquitted themselves well, and the feast
was a great social success.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The conference of the Relief Society of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion will be held in
the 14th Ward Hall in this city, Saturday,
March 2, 1901. It is desired by the officers
that there be a good attendance from all
parts of the Stake.
	The sisters in all of the Relief Society
branches throughout the Stakes of Zion and
its missions are reminded that the 17th of
March is near at hand, and that the annual
meeting on the anniversary of the organiza-
tion, March 17th, 1842, is to be observed
as usual, and the ten cent fund of member-
ship collected. But as the 17th of March
this year is on the Sabbath day, it will
probably be kept either on Saturday or Mon-
day, as may be most convenient for each
respective society, according to circum-
stances.
	The first Parliament of the reign of King
Edward VII, was opened Valentine Day,
February 14, 1901, by the king in person.
He was accompanied by Queen Alexandra,
the Duke of Connaught and other members of
the royal family. The gorgeous State
coach was used by the king and queen in
driving from Buckingham palace to West-
minister where the ceremonies took place.
The chariot was drawn by eight famous
cream-colored horses with postilions in red
and gold liveries, and footmen leading the
horses. The chariot was preceded and fol-
lowed by life-guards in full uniform with
silver breastplates and red-plumed helmets,
a small escort of gentlemen-at-arms in his-
toric costumes immediately surrounded the
royal coach. The crowd was immense and
the roars and shouts of the multitude is said
to have been deafening. Thus the king,
who has always been considered a liberal,
makes his first public appearance after taking,
the formal oath of His Majesty’s office. The
king wore a field marshal chapeau when he
read his speech, which was not a lengthy
document, but dealt with special subjects,
War with South Africa, Capture of Pekin,
Australian Commonwealth, Rebellion in
Ashanti, Drouth in India, Estimates to be
Submitted, the Military Force and the Irish
Land Question. The whole world will
look anxiously for the future course of this
new king and emperor. Indeed it is to be
expected that having such an admirable
mother he will be moderate in his career
and wise in statesmanship.
	The Legislature visited Provo in a body
on Wednesday and looked over the Insane
Asylum, as is their duty, it being a State
Institute. Dr. and Mrs. Hardy, who are in
charge, had made elaborate preparations
and about three hundred guests were seated
at the four long tables in the chapel, which
was handsomely decorated with stars and
stripes and festooned with bunting, and potted
palms on the platform, where the band
played delightful music during the dinner.
Dr. Hardy spoke briefly for the needs of the
institution and the Governor followed in his
original and happy style. President of the
Senate, Evans, made a telling speech.
Mr. Glassman, Chairman of the House of


Representatives, also spoke of the subject in
question, the need of more room for these
unfortunate men and women. A few other
speakers were called and time was up and
the party, who had been invited to visit the
B. Y. Academy, repaired thither. At the
Academy the Lecture hall was filled
with young men and women students, a
pleasing sight indeed, and promises much
for the future of the State. Here again the
Governor, President of the Senate, and
Hon. John T. Axton, made brief remarks
and “America” was sung with much spirit
by the students and visitors.
	The sudden demise of Dr. Karl G
Maeser has taken the community by sur-
prise. In his death the State of Utah has
lost one of its strongest educational pillars.
Prof. Maeser was untiring in his efforts to
advance a perfect system of education among
the masses of the people. His whole life
was given to noble service for the good of
his fellow men. He filled important posi-
tions in the schools of his own country be-
fore moving to America. In Dr. Maeser’s
conversion to Mormonism and his coming to
Utah some very remarkable incidents oc-
cur, which are powerful testimonies to the
truth of the Gospel. Prof. Maeser before
going to Utah to found the Brigham Young
Academy, was employed in the University
of Utah, and many young men and women
now filling places of importance in this State
and elsewhere studied under his tutelage in
that institution in the old Council House.
Too much cannot be said in favor of this
devoted servant of the Lord. It is an irre-
parable loss for the time being to the people;
the work will go forward notwithstanding.
Sometimes when such earnest, humble,
faithful and unassuming men and women
pass away, the question arises, “Have we
sufficiently appreciated their labors?” If we
have not, it is a good time to begin now
and help build up and strengthen those who
labor zealously and unremittingly for Zion.
Dear Brother Maeser, how gentle, yet firm!
What a beautiful life, so full of good deeds,
charity, mercy, benevolence, integrity and
all the virtues that adorn and glorify man-
kind. His death was beautiful, and it may
certainly be said of him that [-]e fell asleep
and never tasted death, as many of the
Saints have been promised if they continue
faithful.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AUTOBINGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
			(Continued.)
	That summer I worked very hard to get
my things ready. Brother Layton told
my parents that he would bear all my ex-
penses in going to the land of Zion, and
they consented for me to go. My only
sister was there alone and my father thought
it would be very nice for me to come and
live with her, she had no family of her own.
	Brother Layton and Sarah Martin were
married on the third day of May, 1850, at
Sandy Church, by Rev. Cook.
	The summer soon passed. Sister Layton
and I made a number of straw bonnets to
bring with us to this country. Shortly
before we were ready to start some one told
my father the Mormons had more than one
wife, and for him not to let me go with Mr.
Layton to Utah, or he would marry me.
My father did not know what to do, for he
had never heard of such a thing. He
worried some about it and finally told me
that if what he had heard were true, and
that if he thought I would marry that man,

[Columm 2]
he would rather bury me there and then
than to see such a thing happen. My
mother sanctioned all that he said, but I
told them that I thought I was old enough
to take care of myself. It hurt me to think
they would feel so hard about those things
that they did not understand, and I told her
that I had never in my life disobeyed her
but once, and that was when I came into
this Church, and that when she found out a
little about the Gospel she would be glad
that I had, and asked her why she should
think now that I would do anything that
was so wrong. She had promised Brother
Layton that I should go with him, and he
had promised to take care of me, and why
should she believe that Satan would make
up without considering it first, and seeing
if it were all right. They soon became
reconciled and felt better.
	September 26th was the day decided on to
start from home for Liverpool. My relatives
and friends were there in full to persuade
me to stay, and not go to Utah, where they
said I had neither friends nor money. I told
them that the Gospel taught me that unless
I was willing to forsake all for the Gospel’s
sake, I was unworthy to be called one of
the chosen. I shall never forget my feel-
ings on that occasion, for though my heart
felt as though it would break, I felt that my
way had been opened in answer to my
prayer. I felt that God had been kind to
me when father, mother and friends had all
turned a cold shoulder on me, and why
should I now distrust him? I had set my
mind and could not be turned from what I
felt was my duty, and I had so long prayed
for a chance to gather with the Saints to
Zion. I had also learned that sacrifice
would bring forth blessings, and I would
not let them see that it worried me in the
least.
	That day I went to Brother Layton’s
place that we might start together from
Bedford station. The next morning on
arriving there I found my mother and a
cousin there, they having walked twelve
miles to see me again. That was a hard
parting for me.
	As the train passed through the tunnel
going into Liverpool, the sight that met my
eyes was wonderful to me, as I had never
seen a ship nor the sea; but there I saw the
ships for miles along the harbor, and
the broad ocean spreading out before
me; what a wonder!
	We spent some time going about in
Liverpool and through the ships. We also
went through a “man of war” that was
there.
	The morning of the 30th came and we
boarded the ship James Pennel. The first
night out they began to be seasick, but I
was not bothered until the second morning.
As I arose I walked out of the cabin and
looked over the side of the ship, when all at
once I turned so dizzy that I could not
stand and began to vomit. That was a
good introduction to the disease. Nearly
all on board had a spell. After I had been
on the sea about two weeks I was taken
down with a severe cold, and was so bad
that I could hardly move. The captain told
Brother Layton to take me out and put me
in a chair on deck. This he did without
telling me what it was for. But I soon
found out, for I had not been there long
before a great wave came in sight, and I
sitting there helpless and alone. I was
fastened to the chair and the wave rolled
over me and drenched me through. It made
me angry, for I could not so much as change

[Column 3]
	At the end of six weeks we were within
one day’s sail of the Gulf of Mexico, and
we retired about midnight, the stars shin-
ing as brightly as possible. But we were
awakened soon after by the heavy roaring
of the sea, and the sound of the sailors.
Such thunder and lightning I had never
heard or seen. In a short time the main
mast was torn off and we drifted
helplessly for eleven days, not knowing
what our fate would be. But we were res-
cued and landed safely at St. Louis, Decem-
ber 4, thankful to our Heavenly Father for
our deliverance from what seemed would be
a watery grave.
	It was a cold, rainy day when we landed;
we knew no one, and no one seemed to
know us. We were as pilgrims in the
promised land, without home or shelter.
But Brother Layton went out in town and
rented a large store room on Fourth and
Poplar Streets. We went in and were
sheltered from the rain, but were very
cold. In a short time some one came up
with a new cook stove and set it up in the
room, but we had never seen such a thing
before and did not know what to do with
it, so we left it just as they put it. After
waiting a few hours, sitting on the floor of
that large, dirty room, Brother Layton re-
turned. He had been busy getting our
luggage off the boat. We did not know
how to rough it, as we had always had plenty
at home, and every accomodation possible
on the voyage, but when we came to be
placed in such conditions we were lost.
	O, how awkward we were at trying to
cook! But we made the best of it. Brother
Layton hired some one to do our washing,
but we did not stay in that place long, we
moved to Twelfth and Franklin Ave. In
the spring of 1851 Orson Hyde came down
from Kanesville and counseled Brother Lay-
ton to rent a farm if possible near St. Louis,
and put the men to work that were owing
him, and let them work it out. This, of
course, delayed our journey to the moun-
tains.
	One very hot day in July, as I was about
to eat my dinner, I began shaking violently,
and did not know what was the matter.
Soon a fever developed, and I then realized
that I had chills and fever. Every day I
would have a spell until I became very weak.
Many a night I never closed my eyes. One
time I felt a little better and was left alone
to do some work while Sister Layton was
away to see her father, who was sick. I
got a pan and went to get some flour from
the barrel, and that was the last that I
knew that day. When Brother and Sister
Layton returned they found me in an un-
conscious condition, and everything just as
they had left it in the morning. I had torn
my clothing into strings and pulled my
hair, but knew nothing of it. I had the
best of care that could be had, but could
get no relief as long as I lived in St. Louis.
	In the spring of 1852 we started on our
journey for the West. We went up the
Missouri river to Kansas City. While on
the boat I was taken down with congestive
chills that nearly cost me my life. I was not
able to walk around when we landed at
Kansas City, but soon improved so that in
a few days we moved out into the woods
where we made our camp. There were
four in our camp. Brother Layton and his
father and Sister Layton and I, and we
were miles away from where any other
white folks lived. Indians were passing
constantly, but we were never molested by
them. Brother Layton was called to


go to Lexington to buy horses for the Emi
gration Fund Company.
	Before we were ready to start on our
journey across the plains, the cholera broke
out in the camp and several died, but it did
not attack any of our camp. The chills
and fever was a constant attendant on me
nearly all the way. I did not walk at all
crossing the plains on account of sickness.
When we were traveling along the Platte
river I was baptized for my health, but it
did not appear to have much effect, so my
travels were anything but pleasant. I had
taken enough quinine for a dozen people, I
thought, but it was of no avail. The
morning we reached the Bear river bottom
I had my last shake, and it was a very
severe one. It was a cold, frosty morning
and took a long time to get up a large hill
that we had to go over. They took the
carriage up first, and then we had to wait
several hours for the rest of the camp. It
seemed that the chills had no more power
over me, but I had something else that was
almost as bad. A pain began in the roof of
my mouth, then it began gathering until I
could not open my mouth or swallow. Just
after we crossed the top of the mountains
Brother Franklin D. Richards and several
others came to meet us. He came to the
Wagon that I was riding in and administered
to me and promised me that my tongue
should be loosened that I could talk to friends
when I arrived in Salt Lake the next day.
My sister and her husband had come a long
way to meet us, but on account of my
mouth I had not been able to talk to her.
	Next morning we left camp early and as we
caught sight of the valley we saw some of
the elderberries and Sister Layton jumped
off the wagon to get some of them for me. I
tried to crowd some of them into my mouth,
when all at once the gathering broke; and
what a relief! My tongue was loosed just
as I was told it should be, and I did talk to
my friends.
	The first house that I went into in Salt
Lake was Brother Elias Smith’s. It was a
log house with but one room in it, but we
Were made welcome, and it was a rest after
our long journey across the plains.
(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
SISTER LAURA MARIA LEVANDER.
	Sister Laura Maria Levander was born Septem-
ber 8, 1858, in Norway, Christiana, and was bap-
tized in 1876. She came to Utah July 14, 1877,
and was married to John Levander, November 10,
1881. She died at Santaquin, November 20, 1890,

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Eternal Father, in His infinite
Wisdom, has seen fit to call from this stage of
action our beloved sister, Laura Levander, who
was a very faithful and energetic worker in the
Church, was counselor in the Primary for a num-
ber of years, a constant Sunday School teacher and
a faithful teacher in the Relief Society,
	Resolved, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associate and friend, that He
doeth all things for the best, and we must be re-
signed to His holy will.
	That we her colaborers extend to her husband
and the family our heartfelt sympathy in their sad
loss.

	Death also claimed one of our aged sisters,
Sister Sarah Elizabeth Jackson, who passed quiet-
away November 18, 1899, aged eighty-four
years- She was born in Sweden, March 16, 1816,
was baptized December 21, 1871, and emigrated to
Utah September 28, 1862. She died as she had
lived, a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	’Tis hard to be parted from those with whom we
forever could dwell, but we know they have entered

[Column 2]
that beautiful city, there with the angels to dwell
				NETTIE FRETJEN,
				ALICE ELLSWORTH,
							Committee.
RHODA BARNES SNELL.
	Rhoda Barnes Snell, the subject of this brief
sketch, was born at Sackville, New Burnswick,
November 21, 1815. Her father’s name was John
Barnes and her mother’s maiden name was
Hannah Dixon. She was the eldest of a large
family of sons and daughters. Her paternal
ancestors came from England in the year 1665,
and settled in Connecticut, and those on her
mother’s side came from the same country and set-
tled near where she was born.
	In 1832 she was married to Cyrus Snell, a native
of New Hampshire, and became the mother of six
sons and one daughter, two of whom she buried in
infancy.
	In the year 1836 John Hewit and Lyman Johnson
brought the Gospel to that land, making their
headquarters for a time with the Snell family, at
whose mill (Mr. Snell being a wool carder and
cloth dresser) they preached, and baptized quite a
number of souls, among whom were the subject of
this sketch and her husband and parents.
	In her old home she continued to live in the midst
of relatives and former friends, by whom she be-
came the object of much ridicule and pity. Many
of the Saints, her father’s family included, having
moved to Kirtland, she was sorely tried at times,
but never wavered in her faith in the Gospel.
	At length, in the year 1853, the Lord opened the
way, by raising up an apostate to purchase their
property, and they started for Deseret in April,
staying in Wisconsin a year with some of her
father’s family, who, in the meantime, had aposta-
tized and settled there. Here they purchased their
outfit, three ox and one horse team, for crossing
the plains, and in the following April started,
out for Salt Lake, a distance of over fifteen hundred
miles.
	Besides doing the washing and cooking on the
trip, she drove the horse team a good share of the
way
	This family traveling nearly alone across the
plains landed at their destination on the 27th of
August 1854, and in the following spring moved to
Spanish Fork, where she resided until the time of
her death, October 26, 1900.
	She passed through all the trials incident to set-
tling a hew country in a desert, and when the
Relief Society was first organized at Spanish Fork
in the year 1857, she was chosen as its president,
which office she continued to fill for fourteen
years, and labored in the silk industry for eighteen
years.
	She was very zealous in laboring in the Temples
for her dead relatives and friends, many of whom
had been her former revilers. She was a woman
of great courage, having faced the drawn arrow of
a savage when alone, without flinching, while she
totally unarmed, continued to chide him for his
rascality and cowardice until he sneaked away like
a cowardly cur.
	For over sixty-eight years she lived in the full
light of the Gospel, and always bore a strong testi-
monp of its truth and of the divinity of the mission
of Joseph Smith.
	After a very active life of nearly eighty-five
years she has passed to her reward, leaving behind
her a numerous posterity of three generations to
mourn her departure, and it may well be said of
her:

	You’ve been a friend to man,
		Prophets and beggars can
	This truth declare,
		For often at your board,
	Your morsel they have shared,
		Their blessing your reward
	And welcome were.

	And now, in Spirit land, 
		Your friends around you stand,
	A Savior meet,
		They’ll take you by the hand,
	While tears of joy descend,
		Their ridicule be turned
	To praises sweet.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Father in heaven has called from
our midst Sister Rhoda Snell, who was always
true and faithful in the performance of her duties
in the Relief Society, and won the love and respect
of all who associated with her, we feel to express
our love for her.
	Resolved, That as a sister, associate and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we hold her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain in

[Column 3]
being deprived of her society, we bow submissively
to the will of Him who doeth all things well, and
say, “Thy will, O Lord, not mine, be done.”
	That we cherish her memory and follow in the
example she set us, that of being a faithful Latter-
day Saint.
	That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved family and relatives.
	That one copy of these resolutions be presented
to them, a copy be entered on the record of our
society and a copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT for publication.
	In behalf of the First Ward Relief Society of
Spanish Fork.
			RHODA E. ROBERTSON, Sec.


R. S. REPORT.
WAYNE STAKE.
	The Wayne Stake Relief Society confer-
ence convened at Torrey meeting house,
December 6, 1900, Stake President W. E.
Robison, Counselor H. M. Hansen, Patri-
arch E. H. Blackburn, Bishop George H.
Crosby, George S. Coleman and several
brethren present.
	Singing, “The morning breaks, the
shadows flee.” Prayer offered by Patriarch
Blackburn. Singing, “The time is nigh,
the happy time.” Minutes of last conference
read and accepted. President Jane Cole-
man presided,
	President Coleman felt grateful for the
presence of the brethren with us. Reported
the local Relief Society as being in good
condition, they having visited and found all
feeling, well in their labors of love. Said
the Relief Society sisters should lead out
and assist in everything in a ward that is of
an elevating nature, look after the poor a n
sick, keep in view what Relief Society work
is organized to accomplish, then let other
worthy ambitions follow. The Prophet
Joseph Smith turned the key of knowledge
for women in the organization, and we have
been blessed of the Lord to do and accom-
plish much good. Prayed the blessings of
the Lord upon our conference.
	President Margaret A. Adams reported
Torrey Relief Society in good condition,
was pleased to have conference held at
Torrey.
	President W. E. Robison spoke on the
importance of the Latter-day work, said we
should spend our energies in assisting in the
work of God, and not shift responsibility on
some one else, but realize the part that rests
upon us in the Church. The work of the
Lord is progressive, and it takes effort to
keep pace with the same. Prayed the
blessing of the Lord upon our labor.
	Grace Allen president of the Grover
Relief Society, reported that society as
doing well, said it was good to attend con-
ference and enjoy the spirit of God, it re-
vived our spirits and renewed our love for
the Gospel. Sister Sarah A. Robison was
pleased to meet with us under such favorable
circumstances. A great labor devolved up-
on the Relief Society. “I feel thankful the
Lord has blessed me with a family. We
should not let our children hear a murmur-
ing word from us. We should pray often
that our children may be raised in the truth
of the Gospel, for this is a noble work.”
	President H. M. Hansen said if we carry
out the instructions given to us we will be
benefited thereby. We live in a time of
improvement and should appreciate the
time we live in and be thankful for the
privileges we enjoy.
	Sister Sarah G. Meeks, of Thurber Relief
Society, reported that branch in good order.
Bore testimony to the truth of the Latter-
day work.


Singing, “Brightly beams the sacred
dawning.” Benediction by Elder R. N.
Adams.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “Prayer is
the soul’s sincere desire.” Prayer by Bishop
George G. Crosby. Singing, “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers.”
	The officers of the General board were
presented and sustained, also Stake officers.
	President Jane S. Coleman spoke upon
our efforts in sericulture, we had been
blessed and prospered thus far, but while
the trees are making growth we are to make
preparations to build a house for the
work. Wished those who felt to assist to
do so, and their interest in this direction
would be appreciated. Said we should im-
prove the talents God has given us, speak
kindly of each other and practice our re-
ligion in our lives.
	Patriarch Blackburn said he was grateful
for the opportunity of meeting with the sis-
ters and to bid them God speed. We should
appreciate the day and time in which we
live, the sisters are called of God to fill
these positions. The Lord spoke to His
servant, the prophet. The work we are
engaged in is endless. You should do
your duties as mothers, felt to bless the
sisters. You should cultivate faith in
your children, should remember the chil-
dren are constantly watching the parent.
The mothers work is never done, but we
must take time to look after our
children and cultivate love and union at
home.
	President Lydia C. Adams reported
Teasdale Relief Society doing well.
	Sister Robison said our religion makes us
one, instructions given have all been
good, let us treasure them up in honest
hearts and always have kind words for
every one.
	Bishop George H. Crosby said he had
much experience in Relief Society work,
appreciated the labors of the sisters. Spoke
encouraging words. Sister Eliza Brinkerhoff
spoke on woman’s work.
	President W. E. Robison said the in-
structions given had been timely, we should
repent and improve, we should magnify our
callings and speak good things of each
other. Blessed the Relief Society and its
interests and all our laudable undertakings.
	Choir sang, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by George S.
Coleman.
		ANNA O. COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you al
much as possible for your money. TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the.....
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden...,..

ee that your tickets read via the
“SHORT LINE”
And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles, D. E. Burley,
Gen. Tfc. Mgr. G. P. & T. A


[Column 1]
WOMANS CONGRESS IN PARIS.
	The meeting of women in International
Congresses, comparatively speaking, is yet in
its infancy, only two having been held up
to date, but both of those have proven emi-
nently successful, and the good that re-
sulted from them will doubtless be far-
reaching in its nature. These Congresses
are especially of great benefit to women
and the noble cause they represent.
	At these meetings women from all
quarters of the globe come together and
talk about matters of material interest, and

[Column 2]
thus a better understanding is effected be-
tween the women of the different nations
and they become more familiar with each
other’s conditions and needs. These meet-
ings tend also to bring women closer to-
gether and the spirit of sincere fraternity,
which is so essential to progression, is thus
fostered and cultivated.
	A good example of these gatherings is
presented in that of the Second Internation-
al Congress of Women’s Works and In-
structions which was held in Paris this year,
which in every way was a pronounced suc-
cess.
	The Congress opened in the grand Hall
of Congresses, on the 18th of June. That
people were interested in it was attested to
by the fact that the hall was filled long be-
fore the hour of commencement by the
many friends of woman’s cause.
	M. Mabillean, director of the social
musee, opened the Congress with a few
well chosen remarks wherein he expressed
himself as being in sympathy with the
woman’s movement, and he thought that
all difficulties and obstacles would be sur-
mounted and overcome ere long, and
woman’s cause be triumphant.
	President Monod then spoke eloquently
and with much feeling. First she paid
tribute to the memories of the ones who
were the prime originators of the Congress,
viz., M. Jules Simon and Mme. Emilie de
Morsier.
	“The family is an indivisible body which
the connection above renders complete.
We may say that woman is nothing without
man, and man nothing without woman.
Together they constitute the organic and
complete human being. When the Creator
said ‘It is not good for man to be alone, I
will give him an aid like to himself,’ he
certainly intended to give him neither a
slave nor a rival.
	“Many have thought and still think that
the cause of woman would take care of itself
the better the less was said about it. 
	“Do you not think, ladies, the experi-
ment of silence has been tried long enough,
and it is time now to try other methods?”
	She then spoke about the moral and in-
dustrial emancipation of woman as chief
issues before the Congress.
	“We hear much about the woman
in the home. What about all the
woman without a home? There are
3,000,000 unmarried women of marriagable
age in France. These must be armed for
their struggle. We must unite not only to
keep them, but to change conditions so that
children will not toe endangered in advance
with a deplorable heredity.
	“We must not be superficial, helping
here and there an isolated case, we must
combat the evil not in its effects, but in its
cause.”
	The speaker then said, “It has been
stated that the era of prevention must
begin.” She claimed charity was not dead
but living in a new form, that of preven-
tion.
	Mlle. Monod closed her excellent dis-
course in the following terms: “What will

[Column 3]
go out from this Congress? In a great
measure that which we ourselves carry
there. To work the works of justice and
peace let us bring here a spirit of justice, of
peace and of true fraternity.”
	Mme. Isabella Bogelot then made a
splendid address.
	Telegrams were sent to President and
Mme. Loubet and others. In the evening a
brilliant reception was given in honor of
the delegates in the palace of women,
where Mme. Pegard received the guests.
The evening was spent in admiring the
beautiful works of women in statues, paint-
ings and other objects created by women’s
talent.
							E. J.


Kana[-] Relief Society
Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 29 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15 & APRIL 1, 1901. Nos. 20 & 21


CONTENT.
A Child of Nature....................E. B. W.			89
Celebrations, March 17, 1[-]01........................	91
D. R. Society..................................				91
Cannon-Willey Wedding..............A. J. C.		92
R. S. Reports....................................			93
In Memoriam..................................			[-]4
Salt Lake Stake..................C. S. Williams		95
Silk Notice................Margaret A. Caine		96
EDITORIAL—In and About Washington......	92
	Editorial Notes............................			93
POETRY—Crumbling...............L. M. H.		89
	Birthday Poem.................S. E. Moench		91


CRUMBLING.
Who reared that lofty frieze and architrave
O’er western desert fanes? And who the sum
Of untold years have named of hall and nave,
In crumbling ruin? Time is silent, dumb.
Who planned and placed almighty Jove or Thor,
The thousand pillar’d temple of the East?
And ere its waning what bold idolator
Did worship there, or who did hold his feast?
Where by Stalla’s azure-mantled sea.
The Sister Cities doomed for ages dire—
Lost Herculaneum and Pompeii?
O’erwhelmed by wild Vesuvius stormy ire!
Where now Minerva’s far-famed Parthenon,
“Athena’s wonder” that enthralled the world?
Fallen to dust, its glowing beauty gone—
The Grecian’s glory into ruin hurled!
Where grand, unrivaled Thebes and Tentyra,
And their divinities all o’er the plain?
Crushed ’neath the wheels of Time’s engulfing car!
All crumbling with their gods to earth again.
What famed Palmyra? ’Tis the wild beast’s lair!
Voluptuous Ninevah, so vast and brave?
The Ephesian City and strange “Temple” there?
The hooting owl sits brooding o’er their grave!
What Babylon? that fain would heaven amaze?
With Babel's tower, her walls and brazen bars?
The lion’s whelps cry thro’ her lonely ways,
Where the enraptured Chaldee worshiped stars!
What now thy once proud cities, Palestine?
The ploughshare brightens o’er their crumbling
	walls.
The olive waves aboye the Christian’s shrine,
His temples, palaces and halls!
Crumbling to dust is Petra’s rock wrought tomb!
And Baulbec’s temple—“sacred to the sun!”
Silent is “Mennon” wasting to its doom;
Earth once again, Rome’s monuments have won.
Crumbling the Astecs glory and their fame—
Thy sculptures rare, Palenque and Copan;
The dream of ages now but dust to scan.
Great London, thou renowned of all the world—
Thy banners floating over every nave:
Are they invulnerable when unfurled
’Gainst old Nemesis’ Time, and canst thou save?
Will ghostly shades flit thro’ each silent street,
Where he has reaped his human harvest here?
As now within thy famed crowned abbey west,
The weird spectres sound each mouldering bier.
Man hath his monuments; nations, cities, states,
Their centuries; to all the same as naught,
Threads spun, are wrought and severed by the
	fates,
To be respun again and still rewrought.
Man’s monuments are fleeting shapes of fame—
Like airy mists soon fading to decay,
God’s still enduring, still renewing flame,
Are starry worlds, and ever shining way.
January, 1901.					L. M. H.


MISS ANTHONY entirely disapproves of
Mrs. Nation’s smashing saloons; Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton entirely approves of
it; and the opponents of equal suffrage are
as much divided in opinion as the anti-
suffragists.


[Column 1]
		A CHILD OF NATURE.
	[Read before the Parent’s class in the Academy 
at Provo, Nov. 7, 1900, by Mrs. E. B. Wells.]
	A child of nature! What a sublime 
theme for the poet or the painter, but, alas!
for me who am neither, and only a poor 
scribbler, it is indeed beyond my language 
to express in words or sentiment this mighty 
subject. But because I fain would try to do 
each task allotted to me, however hard, I’ll do
my best tonight, even tho’ I may fall very 
far short of my own ideal. 
	The new-born babe is the fairest, sweetest 
flower of Paradise, and when the mother 
clasps it to her breast it is the supreme 
moment of her existence. No other earthly 
joy can possibly compare with the ecstacy of 
motherhood. All pain, all suffering, how-
ever great, is forgotten in that new life of
hers—the gift of God, the symbol of His 
love for woman, say what you will. God 
so loved the world that He gave His only
begotten Son, but He gave His only
begotten Son, but He gave Him through 
the woman, Mary, the mother of Jesus! 
Holy Motherhood! greatest and best of all 
gifts to womankind! 
	We behold the child! Who is it? What 
is it? It is curiously and wonderfully 
made; it surpasses our understanding. There 
are no words to convey the idea of the mother-
love. It is God’s child still, and it is its 
mothers; the spirit of the Eternal animates 
it, and it is endowed from on high with 
understanding in embryo; it smiles, it cries,
it opens its eyes upon the new world into 
which it has come, and, perchance, it 
wonders why—we none of us know, not 
even the mother who has borne it, and who 
claims it by a sort of divine right. 
	Byron in his wonderful prayer said, 
“Without my own consent I came but with my 
	wildest wish I go,
For I would fainly be the same I was ere born to
	woe.”
	But Joseph Smith, the prophet of this 
dispensation, has told us that we consented 
to come, to leave the glorious mansions on 
high and take upon us mortality. 
	I would I could tell you how Joseph loved 
little children, and to me this trait in his 
character is another proof, and a strong one 
of the divinity of his mission. Jesus loved 
little children and he taught the people that 
unless they could become like unto a little 
child, they could in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven. 
	The babe may be born here or there, in a 
cottage or in a palace, or in the open air of 
heaven, or upon the great, wide ocean, the 
blood of the generations before it is in its 
veins, it is a part of the great human life,
but its destiny even to those around it is
unknown—for oft the little babe born and 
reared in childhood in the country of its 
forefathers, finds in its riper age a home far,
far from the land of its birth and childish
associations; and yet, methinks, almost al-
ways with something of its past clinging to 
it still, an inheritance not of lands or 
material possessions, but something innate 
that manifests itself in habits, tastes and 
qualities, a mysterious something difficult 
to analyze.

[Column 2]
	We may say the babe is the same whether 
born in sunny Italy or among the snow-
clad hills of Norway, or in any other clime
or any other country, and so it is apparent-
ly at its birth, but its growth and develop-
ment reveals to the acute observer phy-
sically and spiritually, or, if we may use 
the term, intellectually, in various phases al-
most intangible, yet unmistakable tokens of 
its birthplace and early environments, as 
well as its race and parentage
	I fear I diverge far from my subject, like
the preacher who takes a text for his dis-
course, yet wanders hither and thither and 
never touches it. However, one must in-
deed be narrow-minded if in so vast a field of 
beauty and of variety as that of a child of 
nature, one does not wander about some-
what at random, for there are no bounds to 
childhood's realm, no heights too lofty for 
its thought, no flights of fancy too ethereal
for its imagination. 
	It stretches out its arms at first to grasp
whatever it may seize upon; it tries its 
strength of limb in many ways; it begins to 
inquire first with its eyes; it asks for love,
for endearments, and when the baby lips 
can lisp but simple words how soon we find 
it longs for knowledge, of itself, the home,
the little things that surround its daily life.
The bird that sings or chirps at the window,
the flower that grows within or without the 
domicile or yard where it has strayed or 
been taken, the cat, the dog or other house-
hold pets, any and all the little living 
trifles that make up the sum of the daily 
life of the home.
	The love that is born in the child’s
nature, if cherished and fostered, is a mar-
velous gift, and ought never to be checked,
lest the natural tendency of its life become
artificial, or, we are apt to say, “soured.”
The child cannot have too much love, it is 
indeed possible it may have too much at-
tention and too much indulgence, but that 
is not true love. It is, however, my own be-
lief parents often control or govern too 
much (though neither of these are good 
terms to use in this connection.) They do 
not study child-life from the child’s stand-
point, but from their own older and more
matured views of life. I may be treading 
now on dangerous ground, but whatever 
my faults in dealing with children, I cer- 
tainly would never advise severity. It 
assuredly crowds out the beautiful in the
child’s life and makes the little one more or 
less unhappy, without producing the desired 
effect of willing submission to authority,
that is beyond its comprehension.
	Happily for the children of this genera-
tion, the rod has gone out of fashion; we 
have indeed fallen upon better times and 
the chances are all on the side of self-
development instead of self-abasement. If 
we do not go too far and get self-conceit in-
stead of a proper degree of modesty, if we 
can strike the happy medium in child-life,
then indeed we may begin to believe in the 
coming of a higher race, because the 
parents themselves will have learned how 
carefully to deal with the delicate nature of 
these little precious plants, given into their
<c>are fresh from the garden of the gods.


[Column 1]
	I have sometimes thought that if our
Father in Heaven were to deal with his re-
fractory and disobedient children in the per-
emptory way some intelligent parents do
with theirs, there would be a great change
come into the world suddenly.
	I am quite sure, however, I was not asked
or expected to write a dissertation upon the
training of children, but simply to tell you
of the child of nature.

I tell the story old, creation’s song
	Thrilling the mother-heart the ages down
New every day as centuries roll along,
	The height-of motherhood—the crown.

Fresh from the royal courts far, far away.
	All duly poised whither in winged flight,
There came a fairy creature—bless the day!
	Into the motherland of glad delight.

This beauteous one brought hither joy and grace
	And made the dream of life more radiant still,
Than erst had been that happy home and place,
	Though sacred were its duties to fulfill.

The beauty of the little babe bespoke
	The harmonies which to the soul belong,
And all the higher, finer senses woke
	To the divinest melody of song.

	It is thus the little child comes into our
midst, first into the home nest, but gradu-
ally into the great, busy, bustling, worka-
day world. It comes to know evil where it
may perchance have thought all was good
—finally it knows temptation, and, oh, how
terrible if it is not wisely taught, and care-
fully guarded. If reared in a home where
simplicity of living is the rule of life, and
thrift and honesty and all the homely
virtues are inculcated in its daily associa-
tions, where vanity, pride and prejudice
are things unknown, and freedom of
thought and action encouraged and strength-
ened by healthy exercise of mind and
body, and above all where reverence for
all that is sacred is taught in precept and
by example—then indeed are the environ-
ments such as must naturally tend to make
the child.

“A thing of beauty and a joy forever.”

	And true to my own theory of one’s past
clinging to the personal character or devel-
opment, here let me say, the child allowed
to roam, or one inclined to be much in the
haunts of nature, grows in a sense akin to
its surroundings, and these rural scenes,
these pageants of nature, these magnificent
panoramas, help the child to enter, as it
were, into the Temple of glory “through
the gate called Beautiful.” Who would
dare to say this admiration of the works of
an Almighty hand do not lift the soul of
the child into loftier heights and feast itself
in the realms that are fresh with the im-
press of Him, who has made all things by
His infinite skill and divine power? Thus
Gray, the poet, says:

"The meanest floweret of the vale,
The simplest note that swells the gale,
The common rain, the air, the skies.
To him are opening Paradise.”

	The love of nature is a great gift, and
one for which no description can prepare
us so well, as to be in a sense, to the man-
ner born. The greatest thing in the world
is to see something, and yet one might
fancy from what we know of some people
that they had walked through the world
with their eyes shut, or at any rate
with them closely veiled.
	In nature we have the most wonderful
variety. It is more than pictures on the
walls or in the galleries, for they are al-
ways the same, but outdoor life, whether in
the heavens or on the earth, is changing

[Column 2]
every day, every hour, or every moment.
Evidently, as one great writer has said,
“The material world was not made ex-
clusively for the purpose of being painted.”
	But here again I fear I am digressing,
and I was not expected to talk about art,
and really were I to launch into color there
is no telling what extravagances I might
indulge in, because it is one of my pet
hobbies.
	I would not wish that the child might
grow up in the woods in order that it
might be good, nor yet would I reason that
one reared in a crowded city would for that
cause alone be bad; but one cannot help
recognizing the effect of the wonderful
pageantry of nature upon those who have
lived much in its realm. One need not go
far for illustrations, not that we are not in
favor of progress in its modern sense, but
if we look at the men (leaving women out
of the question) who have helped to move
the world onward, we must of necessity re-
fer to those that have been brought up,
one might almost say, to use a homely
phrase, “in the backwoods.”
	For instance, Brigham Young, whose
ideas of progress in almost all directions are
to be seen today on every hand, who
founded this great institution of learning
from which so many students have gone
forth into the great world to build up homes
and colonies and establish industries, and to
preach the Gospel to those that sit in dark-
ness, was born and reared in the Green
Mountains of Vermont, and remember those
were not bare mountains like ours, but
covered with dense forests, from which the
great trees were hewed down to make a
clearing for human habitation. Brother Smoot
the president so many years of this Stake of
Zion, and whose record is engraven on the
hearts of the people here, is another illustra-
tion of the same idea, tho’ he lived in a
different part of the country but where it
was new and wild and primitive.
	Abraham Lincoln, of the same type,
was another of the stalwarts born
to just such an inheritance. The founders
of this Church were nearly all of them men
reared among the scenes of nature and
acquainted with the hardships of outdoor
life, as well as gifted with the rich heritage
of the love of nature’s haunts. I recall
vividly to mind more than one of these
Nature’s noblemen who delighted in the
poems of nature, because it brought back
recollections of the scenes of childhood and
youth—the woods, the brooks, the hills, the
rocks, the wild flowers, the songbirds, the
meadows, the mosses and the ferns. And
these things impress even the strong
natures of men, making them gentle, kindly
and thoughtful, not only of human beings,
but of animals. Such a one was Brigham
Young. He treated his animals' with the
utmost kindness and consideration.
	In these days of the craze for fresh air
one would naturally suppose that the chil-
dren would incline to the studies and
beauties of scenery in its wilder character,
instead of which it seems apparent nowadays
that cricket and football and such like
games are the order of the day much to the
regret, I had almost said disgust, of the
tender-hearted mothers, and I might add
the hard-worked, over-burdened mothers,
who have not only the tending of their
wounds and bruises, but the mending of
their jerseys and trousers.
	The Roman proverb that a child should
be taught nothing but what it can learn

[Column 3]
standing up, went no doubt into an extreme,
but surely we in this day fall into another
error, or an extreme equally dangerous,
when we act as if athletic ames were
the only thing which boys could learn upon
their feet. The love of athletic games
among boys may be a healthy instinct, but
is, in our opinion, carried too far in some of
our great scho[-]ls.
	Our children born here, though not
brought up in the woods, have yet an
intimate association with the beauties of
nature. We have as yet no densely-
crowded cities, but lofty mountains whose
snowy peaks seem to reach to the skies, the
canons that are full of beauty and of variety,
waterfalls, rivers, brooklets, lakes and an
inland sea of surpassing beauty, the wonder
and surprise of tourists and scientists; an
abundance of fresh air and lands to culti-
vate and make beautiful and servicable.
	The character of our children, brought up
among such scenes of nature’s manifold
grandeur, should be of surpassing excel-
lence. They should excel in all the virtues
that are most useful and desirable. They
should and must, for it is the prophecy of
the future, become physically, mentally,
morally and spiritually the greatest states-
men, heroes, scholars, scientists, artists,
linguists and preachers of righteousness the
world has ever produced; the best and
wisest fathers, the tenderest, gentlest and
noblest mothers, examples and teachers of
all mankind. Such is to be their high
destiny, and in view of the fulfillment of
all these things, how shall we order their
lives aright? Temperance and moderation in
all the habits and pursuits of childhood;
healthy exercise upon the farm, or in the
field a part of the year, not too much close
confinement in the schoolroom all the year
round, but leave some development to
nature and obeying nature’s laws. Study
some things from the great book of nature,
as well as from the books of men.

"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society where none intrudes,
By the deep sea, and music in its roar;
I love not man the less but nature more,
From these our interviews from which I steal
From all I may be or have been before,
To mingle with the universe and feel
What I can ne’er express, yet cannot all conceal."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS LUCIE BARRON, of Clarendon, has
been elected State Librarian of South
Carolina.
	QUEEN WILHELMINA was “given away”
at her wedding by four peers of the realm,
Victoria was given away by her uncle. The
custom of giving away the bride is an an-
achronism, a relic of the days when a
woman was a chattel belonging to her male
relatives. It seems peculiarly absurd
in the case of a queen. Happily it
is nowadays only a form. It is well known
that both Victoria and Wilhelmina chose
their own husbands.
	MRS. L. H. GREENWALD, of York, Pa.,
is said to be the only woman weather fore-
caster in the country. She has been em-
ployed by the government in that capacity
for twelve years, has been often commended
for exceptional accuracy, and is an ac-
knowledged authority on climatology and
meteorology. Mrs. Greenwald is also
president of a woman’s organization inter-
ested in scientific research—the National
Science Club.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY POEM. 
	To President Jane S. Richards.
Pause for a moment and backward, turn back
O’er life’s strong ocean of time,
	Its billows and roar,
	And tempests it bore,
To a scene of grandeur sublime.

’Tis our Father’s dwelling, the home of our God,
Who dwelleth in mansions above,
	Where zephyrs so calm,
	Bear only the balm,
The balm of true heavenly love.

The Father called forth from his palace of peace,
A daughter so trusty and true,
	“Because of your worth,
	A mission on earth,
Is given my daughter to you.

“Go forth in your calling, be humble and brave.
Act nobly and wisely your part,
	The cross you must bear,
	If the crown you would wear,
And reign with the righteous at heart.”

In a neat little cottage a baby was born,
’Twas “only a girl” it is true,
	So tiny and weak,
	With no power to speak,
Or tell what she came here to do.

All, all was forgotten of that blest abode,
That life of exquisite bliss,
	With music and song,
	From heavenly throng,
All changed for the sorrows of this.

But often there hovered around that dear child,
A spirit of heavenly ray,
	Which helped her along,
	Through evil and wrong,
By whispering, “This is the way.”

She heeded the whisper and shunned many snares,
Through childhood and also through youth,
	When a message came,
	In our Father’s name,
And brought her the Gospel of truth.

Twas the “Pearl of Great Price,” she gave up
		her all,
That one precious pearl to possess;
	She knew ’twas the key,
	To life’s grand mystery.
Which opened the door to success.

From that very moment her life work began,
Each weakness she sought to subdue,
	The cross she would bear,
	The crown she might wear,
For she knew that the Gospel was true.

We can but begin to portray the good work,
That her willing hands have done,
	But this we must say, 
	By her unselfish way,
Our love and respect she has won.

And now to our bountiful Father in heaven,
We earnestly, fervently pray,
	So loved and so true,
	Aunt Zina and you,
May have happy returns of the day.
						S. E. MOENCH.


[Column 1]
	CELEBRATIONS, MARCH 17, 1901.
		POCATELLO, IDAHO.
	Tuesday afternoon the Relief Society
of Pocatello celebrated the anniversary
of its first organization by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. A meeting was held in the
afternoon, and a program was rendered
consisting of speeches, songs and recita-
tions, and a paper was read by President
Harrison giving the history, rise and pro-
gress of the society. In the evening an
elegant supper was served, after which a
dance was enjoyed by the old and young.
			MORONI.
	Our Relief Society has just held its an-
nual celebration of the organization of the
first society of its kind, by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Nearly all the married
folks participated, and a very en-

[Column 2]
joyable time was spent from noon until
midnight. A suitable program of
songs, recitations and addresses was
rendered. A fine repast was provided and
much appreciated. The light fantastic
was duly tripped; indeed it was just such a
time as our wives and mothers know best
how to make.
		ELEVENTH WARD.
	The Eleventh Ward celebrated the fifty-
ninth anniversary of organization of the
Relief Society in their ward hall, on Mon-
day evening the 18th, when the following
program was rendered.
	Selection by the choir. Prayer, Charles
Livingston. Solo, Laura Madsen. Read-
ing, Alexander M’Master. Duet, Olive
Cushing and Alice Wickens. Recitation,
Erma Felt. Soprano Solo, Emma Arm-
strong. Recitation, Ethel Allen. Soprano
solo, Nellie Penrose Whitney. Sketch of
Society Work, Maria Bidgood. Recitation,
John Knight. Solo, Sperry Lawson. Reci-
tation, Josie Morris. Song, Henry Hul-
bert. Remarks by Bishop Morris. Bene-
diction, Isaac Sears.
	A very enjoyable time was spent.
		SARAH H. G. M’MASTER, Pres.
		ELIZABETH D. LEAKER, Sec.

		AN ENJOYABLE TIME.
	The Relief Society of Lehi celebrated the
anniversary of the first organization by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, on Monday evening,
March 18, 1901, by having a social party in
Garff’s Hall. About one hundred and fifty
sat down to supper. After all partaking of
the repast the following program was
rendered:
	Opening hymn, “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.” Prayer by
Elder W. Southwick. Address of Welcome
by President Rebecca Standring. The
company joined Elder James Kirkham in
singing “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Speech by Bishop T. R. Cutler.
Solo, Mrs. N. Garff. Speech, State Senator
A. J. Evans. Solo, Mr. James M. Kirk-
ham. Speech by Counselor A. R. Anderson.
	Dancing then commenced, President
Standring leading the grand march, fol-
lowed by the Board of Directors the
trustees and teachers, who were distin-
guished by wearing white waists and black
skirts, and wore very slight headdresses.
	The remainder of the evening was spent
very enjoyably in dancing. A time long to
be remembered.
	ALICE STANDRING, Sec.
		ST. JOHN, KANSAS.
	We have been instructed through the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT that all the Relief
Society should meet on the 17th of March
each year, to celebrate the organization of
the society in the year 1842, and to pay a
membership fee of ten cents each.
	Our society was organized January 8,
1899, by Elder W. T. Jack, he being the
president of our mission at that time.
	We met at our church in St. John,
Kansas, March 16, 1901, (the 17th being on
the Sabbath) for the purpose of celebrating
that day, and had a short entertainment of
which the following is a sketch. Our
president presided.
	Opened by singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer was offered by Grand-
father Baker. Continued by singing “Come
all ye sons of God.” Elders King and

[Column 3]
White talked to us for a short time and
gave us some good instructions, after which
we served refreshments.
	Each member present gave her ten cents
membership fee, which amounts to one
dollar and thirty cents ($1.30), which
amount we send as per instructions.
	MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.


D. R. SOCIETY.
	The Annual meeting of the Utah State
Society Daughters of the Revolution was
held Saturday, March 16, 1901, in the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT office, Templeton
Building, and was an enthusiastic gather-
ing. An excellent program was rendered
and followed by the election of officers for
the present year: Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams,
Regent; Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon, vice-regents;
Mrs. Sarah F. Smith, Rec. Sec; Mrs. Lucy
W. Smith, Ass’t. Rec. Sec.; Mrs. Julia F.
Lund, Cor. Sec.; Mrs. Myra Y. Rossiter,
Treasurer; Mrs. Mary E. F. Webber, Regis-
trar; Mrs. Susa Y. Gates, Historian; Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Chaplain. Committee on
Program and Entertainment, Mrs. J. F.
Lund, Mrs. E. W. Hyde and Miss Claire
Clawson.
	The next meeting will occur on April 19,
as that day is the battle of Lexington. The
next year’s work includes the following:
	April I.—Colonization: (a) Growth of
Colonies; population. (b) Nationality; from
what class of society. (c) Language; religion;
industries. Miss Katherine Wells.
	May—II. Government of Colonies: (a)
New England; middle colonies; south. (b)
Charter; proprietary; royal province. (c)
Leading cities. Miss Mabelle Snow.
	June—III. Great Political Parties: (a)
Whigs and Tories in England and America.
(b) Famous leaders. (c) Their influences.
Miss Claire Clawson.
	September—IV. Causes of the American
Revolution: (a) Rights of Englishmen;
Magna Charta; establishment of the
House of Commons; petition of rights
(Charles I.); bill of rights 1688, etc.;
rights of people under such acts, (b) Re-
lation to American history, (c) Oppres-
sive laws and acts and their effects on
colonies. Mrs. C. S. Williams.
	October—V Important events of 1875
and 1876: (a) First Continental Congress;
place of meeting; purpose of president;
noted delegates, etc. (b) Beginning of the
war; Lexington; Bunket Hill. (c) Survey
of opposing forces, officers, etc. (d) Siege
of Boston. (d) Declaration of Independ-
ence. Mrs. Hyde.
	November—VI: From 1776 to 1783: (a)
Geography of the American Revolution;
outline the battles; movements, etc., and
locate important historic spots from Lex-
ington to Yorktown. Mrs. Lucy Smith.
December—VII. Government of the
colonies during the Revolution: (a) Con-
gress, articles of Confederation and the
State government. (b) Great leaders.
Mrs. Mamie Cannon.
	January—VIII. Close of war: (a) Win-
ning of independence. (b) The definitive
treaty of 1883. (c) The extent of terri-
tories ceded to the colonies. (d) Our com-
mission in Paris. Mrs. Webber.
	February—IX. Romantic events con-
nected with the Revolution: (a) Boston
tea party; Nathan Hale; death of Mont-
gomery; Arnold’s treason; Andre; Lee at
Monmouth; surrender of Cornwallis, etc.,
etc. Mrs. A. S. M. Horne.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAR. 15 & APRIL 1, 1901.


NATIONAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The conference of the National Relief
Society will be held in the Assembly Hall
April 8, commencing at 10 o’clock.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
			JANE S. RICHARDS,
			BATHSEBA W. SMITH,
			SARAH JANE CANNON.


CANNON-WILLEY WEDDING.
	On Thursday, March 21st, occurred the
marriage of Miss Emily Hoagland Cannon
and Mr. Israel Emerson Willey.
	The marriage ceremony was performed at
noon in the Salt Lake Temple by the bride’s
uncle, President Angus M. Cannon, and in
the evening members of the families and a
few friends gathered at the Cannon home
to offer congratulations and good wishes.
An elaborate and delicious dinner was
served at five o’clock, after which the hours
were pleasantly spent in conversation, inter-
spersed with musical selections, the bride
herself favoring the company with a song.
	The rooms were beautifully decorated
with cut flowers, vines and potted plants
from the home conservatories, and altogether
the gathering was one of the most informal,
sociable and delightful affairs of the season.
	The bride is a most charming and talented
young woman, the daughter of President
George Q. Cannon, the only cloud to the
wedding festivities being that the beloved
father was not present, having sought a
lower altitude and warmer climate, on ac-
count of ill health.
						A. J. C.


[Column 1]
IN AND ABOUT WASHINGTON.
	Our readers have heard all about the
inauguration ceremonies and read Presi-
dent McKinley’s speech, undoubtedly, and
the inaugural ball has been written up
with elaborate details all over the country;
and, therefore, one scarcely knows what to
tell of great interest, even though one has
visited the nation’s capital and been present
at public proceedings of great importance.
	Mrs. Gates, too, has told the same story in
her graphic way, and, therefore, one must
still repeat the same things over and over.
However, each one speaks for herself in her
own way and may give her own impressions
of places and incidents.
	It is always worth while to go to Wash-
ington when Congress is in session, if one
has the opportunity. There is at these

[Column 2]
times something of interest to the American
people, even women, who are not supposed
to be after Federal appointments; and
certainly at a time when a new administra-
tion is coming in people flock from all parts
of the country in great numbers.
	Washington was full to overflowing on
March 4th of 1901. Long before the time
to open the Senate galleries the halls were
filled and the rush at the doors when opened
was tremendous; the men in charge, how-
ever, preserved order, and the seats and
aisles were very soon filled.
	At first the great attraction was the en-
trance of Vice-President Elect Col. Theodore
Roosevelt, and after that had subsided the
President, his cabinet, Judges of the
Supreme Court and Foreign Ministers,
Ambassadors and Officers of the Army and
Navy, whose elaborate uniforms gave a de-
cided rich tone in contrast to the general
sombre regulation dress of State dignitaries.
Ladies all over the house watched the
Executive gallery to see Mrs. McKinley
enter, and many glasses were turned in her
direction, as was perfectly natural, when
one occupies the high position of the Lady
of the White House.
	Inside the capital the crowd was totally
oblivious of the weather, but in peering out
the crowds on the street, ranged in dense
columns, were standing in pouring rain,
never flinching in the least, waiting to see
the President appear on the stand, in front
of the great historic building. Such
cheers as were raised must be heard to be
appreciated, even though the weather was
so unfavorable, and the flags, banners and
insignia of the day and time were soaked
through and through. We stood very near
and heard every word distinctly. The
President’s voice was clear and far-reaching
and the crowd were so enthusiastic that one
wondered what the effect would have been
had the weather been fine.
	Afterwards along the street where the
parade was expected to pass the people were
simply packed, waiting in pouring rain for
hours to see the officers of State and
the military.
	Colonel Willard Young rode with Gen.
Greene, at the head of the parade, and of
course the Utah people were delighted to
see him in this place of honor. All those
who witnessed the parade were eloquent in
praise of the management of so immense an
affair. In the rooms on Pennsylvania
Avenue, which Senator Kearns had secured,
there were many Utah people, Mrs. John
Henry Smith and her niece, Mr. and Mrs.
H. G. Whitney and Mrs. Willard Young,
Mrs. Ben Rich, Jr., Mrs. Sol Seigel, Mrs.
J. E. Bamberger, President George C.
Parkinson, Mrs. Wilson, Miss Ivers, Mrs.
John Kearns and many more, all too
seriously intent on watching and admiring
the parade as they filed past to make any
comments, but we did notice how the Presi-
dent bared his head and bowed and ac-
knowledged the enthusiastic cheering of the
crowd in his honor.
	The inaugural ball in the new pension
building the same evening was one of the
most elaborate affairs ever given at the
capital, (some people said the most) the
floral and electrical decorations were works
of art and the music was of the highest
order. The surging crowds of people up
stairs and down were exceedingly interest-
ing to look at, though very little dancing
could be indulged in, as there was not
space, and it seemed surprising in such a
crowd to find any one we knew. We met

[Column 3]
there John Young and his mother, formerly
Libbie Canfield, of Philadelphia, whom we
had not seen for many years.
	The next evening we attended the con-
cert given in the same hall, thinking we
would be better able to see the decorations,
and to hear the patriotic music and songs;
but, alas for our hopes, the crowd was much
greater, and we were told it continued so
up to the last evening of the series of con-
certs.
	Washington has had a gala time of festi-
vities during the inaugural week, recep-
tions, operas and theatres all over-crowded,
even the receptions at the White House
were no exception, also excursions to the
various historic places and buildings, so
much so that it was not a good time to see
these places to advantage.
	To one deeply interested in the welfare of
his country and of its progress, such visits
to the capital are instructive and broaden-
ing, and in a direct sense educational; but
there is not even space to give facts, and
therefore one must not indulge in one’s own
impressions.

	The evening of our arrival we attended
the Republican Woman’s banquet, an
elaborate gathering of two hundred notable
women from all parts of the United States,
(and a few men) Mrs. Foster presiding,
Mrs. Foster received in the parlors at the
Riggs house for the first two hours, per-
haps, and then repaired to the banquet hall,
where the floral decorations were very ele-
gant and artistic, and the banquet all and
more than one could desire. Mrs. Foster
looked superb and acted not only as hostess
but toastmistress, and filled both positions
without apparent effort, gracefully and in
a dignified manner. Mrs. Gates, of Utah,
responded to the toast “What protection
has done for Utah in the way of indus-
tries.” Her speech was humorous and
forceful and her audience was intensely
appreciative, if one can judge by the
applause, and she received many congratu-
lations afterwards.
	Thursday evening and Friday all day we
attended the International Press Union
meetings held at the Riggs House, Mary S.
Lockwood, president, at which we had the
opportunity to speak, also Mrs. Gates; and
other privileges on committees, etc. There
we met a number of women whom we had
known previously—Mrs. Clara B. Colby,
editor Woman’s Tribune, a good friend to
our people, another prominent press woman
and other good friends.
	Mrs. Foster arranged a trip for some few
ladies to Glen Echo to pay a visit to Miss
Clara Barton, President-General of the Red
Cross, whose fame as a practical philan-
thropist has encircled the world. This visit
was most delightful, and enroute, via
Georgetown, where we changed cars, we
saw the unpretentious dwelling of Mrs. E. D.
E. N. Southworth, whose stories were the
delight of young and old twenty and thirty
years ago. Her home is prettily situated
on the bank of the picturesque Potomac
river, a most romantic spot, the opposite
bank rising in galleries of evergreen trees.
Fancy what it would be in summer, with
its picturesque sailing boats and the per-
fume of Southern bloom.
	We found upon our arrival at Miss Bar-
ton’s home that she was much better in
health and really glad to see us, chatted
pleasantly a little about herself, as the
ladies drew her out, and finally was per-
suaded to show us some of her gifts and


medals given her by royalty and distin-
guished people of the nobility of foreign
lands and our own, in recognition of her
work for suffering humanity. Miss Bar-
ton’s name is not only engraven on medals
of honor and precious gifts set with jewels,
but on the hearts of many thousands at
home and abroad, never to be obliterated.
She is a Yankee of the old Bay State, born
in Oxford. She is small with rather strong
features and unpretentious and unassuming
in appearance, but great and heroic in soul
and in purpose, and with the ability to cope
with all adverse conditions and bring order
out of chaos. A rare woman of extraordin-
ary endowments, she has blazed the way for
her sisters of the Red Cross, who have the
courage to follow in her footsteps.
	On the afternoon of the same day we at-
tended a reception given by Mrs. J. Ellen
Foster, at the “Portner,” where we met
many more ladies and a few gentlemen, and
had an encounter, so to speak, with a
Methodist minister who knew the Rev. T.
C. Iliff, and had visited Utah. We invited
him to come again and see for himself and
get facts.
	Mrs. Foster’s guests of honor were two
cousins of hers, Miss Houghton, of Cali-
fornia, and Mrs. Bradbury, of Boston, very
interesting and intellectual women, whom
she wished to present to her friends.
Among the ladies who attended were several
we had met before, but many were total
strangers. Mrs. Olive Logan, whom we
had met at the Republican reception, well
known as a writer and speaker, and sister
of the late Gen. Logan; she has recently
married quite a handsome young man,
(though she is advanced in years) who has
taken her name, and seems very proud to be
the husband of so eminent a woman.
Another celebrated woman present whom
we knew very well, was Mrs. Ida Husted
Harper, of Indianapolis, who spends her
winters in Washington, a famous writer and
brilliant journalist. She made one of the
best speeches, if not the best, at the Inter-
national Congress of Women in 1899. Mrs.
Harper wrote the Life of Susan B. Anthony
and is now engaged to write (indeed has be-
gun the work) the Fourth Volume of
Woman’s Suffrage. We met in Washing-
ton also Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, our
good friend when we first visited conven-
tions in that city, and Mrs. Ellen Spencer
Mussey, a woman lawyer who holds many
responsible positions of honor; Mrs. Belva
A. Lockwood, a dear old and tried friend;
Marilla M. Ricker, firm as the everlasting
hills in friendship and fidelity, and Dr. Kate
Waller Barrett, with whom we dined at her
own home in Alexandria, a home full of
beautiful things and a jolly, happy family
of young people; Mrs. Fannie Humphreys
Gaffney, President of the National Council
of the United States, and her husband and
charming daughter, Jayta.
	Of other noted people and historic places in
Washington, Baltimore and New York, we
will tell you more anon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the Twelfth Ward, in this city,
Bishop H. B. Clawson and Relief Society
President Julia Druce united in celebrating
the anniversary of the organization of the
Relief Society in 1842, and the affair was a
brilliant success. A fine banquet was
given and all present had the opportunity
of partaking of the delicious viands. Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon pronounced the


blessing upon the food. The program was
delightfully carried out, Elder Thomas L.
Woodbury was master of ceremonies and
carried his part well. George Margetts
and Sydney Clawson provoked a great deal
of merriment and Mrs. Nellie Brown
warbled ragtime melodies quite naturally
to the accompaniment of the banjo. Music,
both vocal and instrumental, was excep-
tionally good, and the solos by Nellie
Druce Pugsley and Seymour B. Young, Jr.,
were simply divine. Indeed where all do
well it is difficult to make special references
but an exception must be made in favor of
Miss Druce’s piano playing, she bids
fair to make a brilliant pianist. Governor
Wells was present by invitation, as also
several other notable men and women.
	On Friday evening the 21st of March,
the Saints of the Fourteenth Ward and
many of the old-time residents, now scat-
tered in other parts of the city, held a re-
union under the auspices of the Bishop,
but the affair was largely in the hands of
the young people. Love and goodfellow-
ship abounded, and there was a fine pro-
gram rendered and many interesting
reminiscences were given. This historic
building is one of the first of its kind
erected in this city and many enjoyable
gatherings have convened there. Presi-
dent Brigham Young and many of his col-
leagues have danced there in the early
days, President Eliza R. Snow Smith has
often been present there, both on festive
and sacred occasions. It has always been
a favorite place for recreation as well as
meetings. Dr. Willard Richards, Dr. Levi
Richards, and Elder Phineas Richards, all
resided in that ward, also Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards and his brothers, Samuel
B. and Henry P. Richards, for very many
years. President John Taylor and Patri-
arch Joseph Horne, also at an early period
President George Q. Cannon; and his
brother, Angus M., President of this Stake
of Zion, is still a resident there. Many
old-timers made brief remarks during the
evening, there was sweet singing and
music and dancing, and the program
closed with “Auld Lang Syne.” Delic-
ous refreshments were served to all the
invited guests and the hours flew swiftly
by. These are the green spots in life’s
pathway.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SEVIER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held at Richfield, in the Relief Society hall
at ten a. m., November 24, 1900, President
Christina Sorenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer by
Sister Agnes Thurber. Singing, “Prayer
is the soul’s sincere desire." Minutes of
the last conference read and accepted.
	President Christina Sorenson made open-
ing remarks. Spoke of the instructions
given at the General Conference in Salt
Lake City, also of the second coming of
Christ and the building up of the center
Stake of Zion. Said to prepare ourselves,
set a good example to our children, put away
selfishness and keep the Word of Wisdom.
	President A. Thurber reported the Rich-
field Relief Society. The sisters are trying
to do their duty; teachers report favorably;
meetings held semi-monthly; visit the sick;
visit the Young Ladies and Primary.

[Column 2]
	Sister Hannah Roberts reported Anna-
bella Relief Society doing a good work;
grain in their own granary; have a good
lot of sisters; teachers visit regularly.
	President Mary Buchanan reported Glen-
wood Relief Society; sisters are willing to
donate; hold semi-monthly meetings; have
a good lot of sisters; grain in their own
granary.
	President Mary Anderson reported Koosh-
arem Relief Society in good condition. Al-
ways felt well paid in coming to conference.
	Sister Josephine Jensen reported Salina
Relief Society in good condition; grain in
their own granary all right; sisters willing
to perform their duty; visit Young Ladies
and Primary.
	President A. M. Dastrup reported Sigurd
Relief Society: meetings well attended[-]
sisters willing to help; felt to do her duty.
	Sister Elizabeth Gledhill reported Ver-
million: sisters are interested and willing to
do their duty; grain in tithing granary.
	President Seegmiller presented for vote
General and Stake officers of the Relief
Society—all sustained by sisters.
	President Seegmiller was pleased to hear
reports of sisters. Spoke of the late General
Conference; of the second coming of Christ;
of the labors of the Prophet Joseph; build-
ing up of the Center Stake of Zion. Thought
the Relief Society was doing a great work.
	Secretary Mary Swindle read Stake
report.
	President Christina Sorenson spoke of
nurses class; of membership fee; hoped we
would be prompt this afternoon.
	Minutes read and approved. Singing,
"Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Benediction by President W. Seegmiller.
	At 2 p. m. conference continued, Presi-
dent C. Sorenson presiding. Singing,
“O, ye mountains high.” Prayer by
Brother G. M. Jones. Singing, “Now let
us rejoice.” Minutes of last conference
read.
	President Laura Staples reported Elsi-
nore: sisters are united; teachers are well
received; grain in tithing granary.
	Sister Cora Birdsall represented Monroe
Relief Society: have testimony and work
meetings; sisters united: wheat in tithing
granary.
	Joseph, Inverury, Burrville, Marysvale, Au-
rora, Venice and Redmond not reported.
	President C. Sorenson spoke of the
General Relief Society House to be built in
Salt Lake City. Related the success of the
committee who went to see President Snow,
and that we are expected to do our part.
Spoke of the joy of our aged sisters to look
forward to the time when the place will be
completed; of the interest taken by all the
Stake presidents, who voted each Stake
would do its part. Hoped the sisters of
our Stake would not be behind in this work.
	Vice-President Mary E. Magleby read
from the EXPONENT of March 1899, about
this house, also read a circular from the
General Board, dated November 2, 1900,
about this building, also the Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primary having an inter-
est in the same.
	Vice President Ellen Hanson said, “I am
glad to be numbered with the sisters of the
Relief Society, it is good to speak by the in-
fluence of the Holy Spirit. Cultivate our
speech, show a good example to our chil-
dren. Let us live humble before the Lord,
obey the Priesthood and ask the Lord to
help us to do our duty.
	Brother G. M Jones favored us with a
solo, “Visions of the Old Folks at Home.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Lucy Heppler said, “No doubt all
have taken in the spirit of this conference.”
Spoke of this conference, and of the in-
fluence of these meetings; of life and work
of mothers at home and the many duties
devolving upon us. Was glad to hear good
reports. Spoke of the famine in India,
flood in Galveston, also of returning to
Jackson County and of the second coming
of Christ. Said, “Of course we must have
a house, to be a beacon to the world. Let
us go on in this great work. The evil one
is trying to overcome our children, not only
teach but fast and pray for our children.”
	President Sorenson made closing remarks.
She was pleased with the instructions given.
Spoke of the money to be gathered for the
house.
	Minutes read and approved. A vote of
thanks was given to Brother Jones and
choir. Singing, “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Sister Laura
Staples.
			MARY SWINDLE, Sec.
R. S. HAWAIIAN MISSION.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Hawaiian Mission, held in the Laie
meeting house, October 5, 1900, President
Alice R. Woolley presiding.
	Meeting commenced by singing “Stars of
morning shout for joy.” Prayer by Sister
Kalua. Continued by singing “Ye who
are called to labor and minister for God.”
Minutes of last conference, held October 7,
1899, were read and approved.
	Sister Alice Woolley said, “Through the
mercies of our Heavenly Father we meet
again in our conference to be fed the bread
of life. I am thankful to our Heavenly
Father for His kindness during our past
lives. We meet together to encourage one
another and to listen to the instructions
that will be given us. We are a blessed
people in being privileged to live on the
earth in these last days, and we are receiv-
ing great blessings each day, and the great-
est of these blessings is the privilege we
have of embracing the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. We have been baptized into the
true Church as Jesus said was necessary,
as recorded in John third chapter fifth verse:
‘Unless a man is born of the water and of
the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom
of God.’ If we read the newspapers we
can see that the end is near at hand, there-
fore let us ever be on the watchguard.
During the month of June last, I in com-
pany with Sister Williams and Pualvia,
visited the Islands of Hawaii and Maui.
We visited among the people, encouraging
them and I was very much pleased to see
the interest the young girls were taking in
the Relief Society work. This is a work
that will help us as members of the Church
of Jesus Christ and I exhort you all, my
sisters, to be faithful, and may the Lord
bless us all.
	Ruth Kauhine, president of the Laie
society, reported said society in a good con-
dition. “We hold our meetings weekly,
have good programs and endeavor to take
care of the poor in our midst.”
	Sister Hattie Davis, of Awaiolimu, said
we observe Saturday of each week as our
meeting day, and we have a full attendance.
Our membership extends over one hundred.
We take care of the poor and needy, widows
and orphans and assist in taking care of our
missionaries.” She was very pleased to
meet again in this capacity.
	Sister Julia Wilder reports mission-

[Column 2]
ary labors in the Island of Kauai. Said
“We found the sisters in a favorable con-
dition, and as a rule the people were ener-
getic in their labors.”
	Sister Ellen Cole desired the faith and
prayers of all, that she might be able to say
something that would be beneficial to all
persent. I endorse the remarks of Sister
Wilder in regard to our labors in Kauai.
The Saints were kind, thoughtful of us, and
we did not suffer for anything that was nec-
essary for us to carry on our work.” She
felt thankful that she had been privileged
to spend a portion of her time among this
people, was thankful that we met today
nnder such favorable circumstances.
	Sister Oliver, of Waikiki, reported that
society as follows; “We meet each Thurs-
day of each week. Our society is fully
organized and I am pleased to say that a
goodly number of our members are here to-
day. We help the poor and needy and
there are some widows and orphans in our
midst, and we try to do our duty towards
them.”
	Three branches from Hawaii, six from
Maui and four from Kaui were reported by
their representatives as being in a prosper-
ous condition, all working unitedly and
striving to carry on this great work accep-
tably before our Heavenly Father.
	Sister Kealohapauole reported her mission
to Kohala and Hamakua, Hawaii, as suc-
cessful, followed by Maunahina, a mission-
ary to the same district. They traveled
among the people and tried to encourage
them in their labors, exhorted them to be
faithful. “We were blessed of the Lord on
our journey and did not lack for anything.”
	Sister Fernandez and company, of
Awaiolina, then favored us with a song,
“Beautiful Eden.”
	Sister Olive Pendleton was pleased to
meet with us today and asked the blessing
of the Lord upon ns all.
	Sister Williams made some encouraging
remarks and reported her labors on Hawaii
and Maui. Felt that she had been abund-
antly blessed of the Lord while she had been
on her mission. She had been privileged
to visit three of the Islands of this group
and met with the people in their homes as
well as in their meetings. She exhorted all
to be faithful and help with this great
work. Bore her testimony to the divinity
of the Gospel.
	The Kahana society was reported by
Poopuu.
	Sister Hannah Makanoe gave a descrip-
tion of her trip to Zion in company with her
mother. Gave a synopsis of her labors and
experience there. She was very much
affected, had come here on business and in-
tended to return to Zion where the re-
mains of her mother lie buried in Utah soil.
Spoke on the principle of gathering and of
the condition of Hawaiians at Josepa, Utah.
“In Zion we have trials, but they only
make us stronger.” Spoke of the blessings
to be obtained in the Temples. Exhorted
all to be faithful and to carry on the great
work our parents had begun.
	Sister Minerva Fernandez was thankful
she had been privileged to become a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ. We
are told he that has faith, repents and is
baptized, will be saved: but he that be-
lieveth not shall be condemned, She en-
dorsed the remarks made concerning the
young girls joining the society and assisting
in the great work.
	Sister Woolley made a few closing re-

[Column 3]
marks and meeting adjourned by singing-
and benediction by President Samuel E.
Woolley.
	Number present two hundred and sixty-
one.

	Monday morning, October 8, 1900, an
officers’ meeting was held at the Mission
House at nine o’clock. There were eighty
present, consisting of the local and visiting
sisters. The spirit of the Lord was with us
in rich abundance and a well prepared pro-
gram was rendered, consisting of songs,
speeches upon the principles of the Gospel,
and testimonies and encouraging words
from a number of the sisters. Some valu-
able instructions were given by President
Alice Woolley and Sister Williams concern-
ing the Relief Society work, its blessings
and benefits and the duties of the officers,
teachers and members in the same, and ex-
hortations to the mothers to teach their
children correct principles and to have faith
in the Priesthood of God, so that in times of
sickness they would rely upon the adminis-
trations of the servants of the Lord.
	After meeting a lunch was served by the
white sisters to all present, both to the sis-
ters and a large number of brethren who
had come to say “aloha nu” before leaving
for their several homes.
	A feeling of brotherly and sisterly love
was manifested by all and many were the
hearty handshakes and a God bless you as
we separated, feeling we had been fed with
the bread of life and that this was the best
conference we had ever had.
		ALICE R. WOOLLEY, Pres,
		ELIZABETH WILLIAMS, Cor. Sec.
	Laie, Oahu. NOV. 12, 1900.
GRANITE STAKE.
	The second quarterly conference of the
Reliet Society of Granite Stake was held
in the Taylorsville meeting house, Novem-
ber 10, 1901, President Emma S. Wood-
ruff presiding. Meeting convened at 10
o’clock a. m. Singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer was offered by Stake
Counselor Edwin Bennion. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Present on the stand were Stake Counse-
lor Edwin Bennion, President M. Isabella
Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Soci-
ety, President Woodruff, Counselors Mary
P. Young and Katharine H. Brockbank,
Secretary Armeda S. Young and Treasurer
Maria B. Winder, of the Granite Stake
Relief Society, President E. Pixton, of
Taylorsville, and most of the presidents of
the different wards were present.
	Roll called, showing all the Stake officers
present, 23; local officers 23. Minutes of
the morning session of the former confer-
ence, held August 1, 1900, read an
accepted.
	President Woodruff made opening re-
marks in her kind, welcoming way. She
was pleased with the minutes of the last
conference. Read a business letter from
the General Board relating to the Woman’s
Building. Made some very interesting re-
marks and gave instructions concerning
the building. Said they were very anx-
ious to get the foundation in this fall if
possible. Regretted being obliged to ab-
sent herself from the afternoon meeting,
but as the monument of President Wood-
ruff was to be dedicated that day she must
excuse herself. She felt proud of the sis-
ters of Granite Stake, and loved them. Re-
joiced in the kingdom of God and loved to


labor in the Relief Society. President
Taylor had said to her that it would be
impossible for him to be here today. She
had invited Sister Horne to come and com-
fort and bless us. Felt that every time we
could get her it added one more to our ad-
vantage. Prayed the Lord to bless us with
His Holy Spirit.
	President Sarah B. Gibson reported
Sugar Ward; President Jenson, Forest
Dale; President Turnbow, Farmers;
Counselor Hamilton, Mill Creek; President
Eliza Ann B. Neff reported East Mill
Creek and spoke of the faithful few she
could always depend on. Said obedience
is one of the first laws of heaven. Where
there is obedience there is no dissension.
Gave an account and explained the way
they managed their Fairs.
	President E. S. Woodruff said: “Sisters,
if you want to ask any questions about the
“house,” you can get instructions from
Sister Horne.”
	Miss Winnie Tibbs gave, with much
expression, a pleasing recitation.
	President Woodruff said: “I must now
bid you good bye, sisters, and God bless
you. I will leave Sister Mary Young to
preside.”
	Murray Ward was reported by President
Margaret Carruth; South Cottonwood by
Counselor Annie M. Thompson.
	President Pixton, of Taylorsville, said:
“Sisters, I feel well repaid by having the
conference here today and I am sorry our
Bishop is not here, but he is a good mem-
ber, the right man in the right place. The
erection of this Woman’s Building that has
been talked about I think is good. I hope
the project will meet with the greatest suc-
cess.”
	Counselor Mary P. Young said; “We
will leave the rest of the reports and give
the time to Brother Bennion.”
	Brother Bennion: “I hope I will be led
by the Spirit of the Lord in what I say.
All these societies in the Church are for
our betterment. Those who enjoy these
meetings are those who come regularly;
and if we attend all our duties regularly
we will receive the joy of it. The duty of
the sisters is to attend these meetings. I
believe those that stand up to speak are
more benefited, as they are supported by
their sisters and they receive peace and joy.
If we do every duty then we don't feel any
regret for a neglect.” He spoke of the
necessity of cultivating charity, referring
to the Apostle Paul’s teachings. “Paul in
writing to some of the Saints told what a
hard thing the tongue was to control.
Alexander the Great said that he who
can control himself is greater than he
who can control a city. In the Relief
Society work is the place to exercise the
gifts of faith, love, kindness and cheerful-
ness, as nothing gives such joy as to ad-
minister to others. The Savior, I believe,
had joy greater than any of us can con-
ceive, although he had great suffering.
Home is the place to begin to do good, to
love our neighbor and those around us. I
honor the sisters of Zion, especially these
aged ones who have been tried and proved.
They cannot receive too much honor. Let
us teach the young people to honor, love
and respect them. God bless you. Amen.”
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Conference adjourned till 2 p.
m. Benediction by President Elizabeth
Pixton.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
		MARY ANN CHRISTENSON
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death 
of our beloved sister, Mary Ann Christenson, who
departed this life February 2, 1901. She was a 
great sufferer for over two years with dropsy and 
other diseases. A few of the Relief Society sisters 
visited her two days before she died. She bore a 
faithful testimony of the goodness of God. She 
died as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She was born in Allbury Co., Denmark, February 
14, 1837, baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints May 28, 1883, and emigrated 
to the valley in 1883. She was the mother of 
eleven children, nine of whom survive her. 
	The following resolutions were adopted by the 
Relief Society of the Lyman Ward in honor of our 
beloved sister and colaborer, Sister Mary Ann
Christenson.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called our 
beloved sister from our midst, who was a faithful
worker, a kind and loving mother and a friend to
all.
	Resolved, That our Heavenly Father has called 
her home and that we desire to emulate her ex-
ample; that we herewith express our sympathy 
for her heart-broken husband and her loving chil-
dren and grandchildren.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on 
the records of the Lyman Relief Society, one sent 
to the bereaved family and one to the EXPONENT 
for publication.
			JEANNETTE SENROOT, Sec. 
		MARY CLARKSON LARK.
	Sister Lark, whose recent death we record here 
was born in England sometime over seventy 
years ago, and received the Gospel in her native 
land, emigrating to this country with her husband 
and family for the sake of her religion.
	She passed away at her home in Woodland,
Summit county, Utah, January 28, 1901, after a 
severe illness of ten days with La Grippe. Her 
husband preceded her to the “other side” a few 
years ago, and now she has gone to meet him to 
part no more forever. She leaves four children, 
two sons and two daughters, and a host of friends 
to mourn the loss of a kind and thoughtful mother 
and adviser. 
	Sister Lark, or “Aunt Mary,” as she was affec-
tionately designated by those who knew her inti-
mately was a consistent and upright Latter-day 
Saint, and was regarded as a model woman in her 
daily life and conversation, never speaking ill of 
any one. Such an example is worthy of imitation 
by all, and especially those who profess to live by 
the Golden Rule. 
	Sister Lark was very highly esteemed by mem-
bers of the family of President George Q. Cannon,
with whom she had been intimately associated in 
past years, as nurse and companion in times of 
sickness, and some of them were acquainted with 
her for thirty years.
	Her loss will be deeply felt, for she was beloved 
by relatives, neighbors and friends; but our loss is 
her gain, and those who remain have no need for 
sorrow, except that of missing her society here
Our beloved ones are not lost, they are safe, and 
those who loved them here should not mourn with-
out hope of meeting them again, but strive to follow 
in their footsteps, that they may attain to the same 
exaltation hereafter. 
	“They are not lost, they are within the door 
	That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing,
	With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
	In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself, their Lord and Judge and
		King.”
								S. J. C.


[Column 1]
		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, March 2, 1901,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Oh Jesus,
the Giver.” Prayer by Maria W. Wilcox.
Singing, “O say what is truth.”
	Present on the stand were Sisters Zina D.
H. Young, B. W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
Sarah J. Cannon, Annie T. Hyde, Clara C.
Cannon, Maria Wilcox and Julia C. Howe.
	After some business reports were given,

[Column 2]
Sister Horne thanked the sisters for the
interest they had taken in her during her
sickness, acknowledged the hand of the
Lord in raising up friends to them during
the time they were quarantined and
thanked the Lord for His great goodness to
them. Said she felt like Job—the afflic-
tions she dreaded most had come to her.
She had been promised her life should be
lengthened out to perform the duties de-
volving upon her.
	President Zina D. H. Young said,
“Obedience is better than sacrifice.” She
was glad to be with the sisters. The restor-
ation of Sister Horne’s health was as the
restoring spirit. Felt very much in earnest
as to the work which would have to be ac-
complished. The Lord has opened up the
way for His people. If we are humble and
faithful and keep the faith of the Lord with
us, we will be blessed and preserved.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said we certainly
all rejoiced to have these dear mothers with
us today. Spoke of the words of Solomon,
that those who should look towards the
holy temple, (in that day) with prayerful
hearts, should receive a blessing. Felt that
we are a blest people and should be happy,
and not a sorrowful people. Thought we
had everything to be thankful for, and
should have faith and teach our children
faith. Spoke of the marvelous way in
which we obtained records for Temple
work. Believed that the Lord would open
up the way for all who desired to do
Temple work. Told the sisters of the con-
templated organization of a class in parlia-
mentary law by Mrs. Urquhart Lee. Read
what the Prophet Joseph Smith said with
regard to this in the first organization of the
Relief Society. Hoped the Relief Society
presidents would have a representative at-
tend this class. It was certainly necessary
for each society to be conducted in a busi-
ness way.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon said, “The 17th
of March will soon be here and the several
branches of the society will take pains to
have the meetings, and also collect the fund
towards the expenses of the General Soci-
ety.” Thought it was necessary to re-
member this great day. Made good and
encouraging remarks to the sisters on the
subjects of Temple work, belief in the Gos-
pel, faith in the Lord and in His com-
mandments to us. Sister Cannon also en-
dorsed the study of parliamentary law and
believed it would result in much good.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith encouraged
the sisters to attend this class. She would
join it herself and if it did not do her much
good, was sure it would help others. Knew
that the Prophet endorsed this in his day
and thought it was just as necessary at the
present time. Prayed that the Lord would
help us to keep in the faith, that we might
never go astray.
	Sister Sarah Jane Cannon said she wished
to join this class, and believed it would do
much good. What we learn in this life we
will not need to learn in the hereafter.
Was thankful to have Sister Horne here
with us. Said we should be careful to do
the little things of life, they will often re-
sult in more rea[-] [illegible line]
	Morning session closed by singing “The
time is far spent.” Benediction by
Clarissa S. Williams.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing
“How firm a foundation.” Prayer by Sis-
ter Clara C. Cannon. A quartette from the
Temple choir sang “O Jesus, the Giver of
all we enjoy.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Horne welcomed the sisters, of
whom there was a large number present.
Spoke in her usual kind, motherly way a
few moments. Told the sisters to do their
duty and lay up treasures in heaven.
	There being so many more present at the
afternoon meeting Sister Annie T. Hyde
announced the forming of classes in parlia-
mentary usage, and urged the sisters to at
least send one representative from each
ward.
	Sister Julia C. Howe appreciated the
fellowship of her sisters, said it is a day of
progression, also a day of trial. In every
position we should do our duty, temporally
and spiritually. Spoke of the Relief
Society as being the parent society. En-
larged on the numberless duties connected
with this society which we should give our
close attention. Advised the sisters to
seek the Lord for His help to assist them to
perform the requirements made of them.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said it is a
blessing and a comfort to mingle with the
Latter-day Saints. She was truly thankful
to be one of the people. Likened the meet-
ings of the sisters to the school of the
prophets, as the things we learn here are
such as we could not learn any where else.
Spoke of the day of trial which would surely
come upon us, thought we should cultivate
kindness and every good quality of character
and prepare ourselves for the great work of
the future.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said she was
pleased to be present, felt blest in the
privilege of associating with good men and
women. Told of the anxiety of those who
could not visit the Temples and be in con-
stant association with the prophets of the
Lord. Hoped we would all appreciate the
great blessings which we enjoy. Seeking
for the spirit is the proper way and will
bring us into possession of that spirit, and
our Father alone can read the heart, and as
long as we keep the faith it will finally lead
us aright.
	Sister Ruth M. Fox bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and spoke
of trials as being stepping stones to glory,
thought they prepared us for the future and
rendered us more broad and useful. Be-
lieved that happiness meant work and work
meant happiness. We want to overcome our
trials and not let them overcome us.
Thought it an honor to be a member of the
Relief Society and a greater honor to be a
member of the Church. Asked the Lord to
bless every one of the sisters in their efforts
to do right.
	A beautiful solo was rendered by Sister
Maggie Hull, the song was entitled “When
I get to the end of the way.”
	Sister Lula Greene Richards hoped when
“we get to the end of the way” we would
have the same sweet singers to greet us.
Advised the sisters to have a reccomend
ready to go to the Temple and take ad-
vantage of it occasionally. Believed we all
desired to have our children taught in the
way of the Lord. Likened the spirit in the
Temple to the spirit of a kind parent, and

[Column 2]
was afraid we were not appreciating the
privilege of the Temple and the good we
get there.
	Brother C. J. Thomas rejoiced to hear
the good remarks which had been made.
While he had not seen the Prophet Joseph
he had seen and heard many glorious and
wonderful things, Was thankful for the
honor and the privilege of being called as a
worker in the Temple. Said the Lord is in
waiting and urging us to attend to the
glorious Temple privileges.
	In her closing remarks Sister Horne said:
“We are very anxious for our sons, but
what of our daughters? Is not their mis-
sion as great as any other, and perhaps
greater? They bring the souls of the
generations of men to earth. Their mission
is wonderful and the sisters should be en-
couraged in their duties.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
The quartette sang, “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.” The singing was a very
enjoyable feature of the afternoon’s exer-
cises. Closing prayer by Sister Sarah
Phelps.
CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, Ass’t. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you al
much is possible for your money.							TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,			D. E. Burley,
	Gen. Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


NOTICE TO THOSE INTERESTED IN SILK
				CULTURE.
	
	The Utah Silk Commssion desire to call 
attention to the fact that the time for raising 
silk is again upon us, and we trust that 
those who intend entering upon the work
this year will write to us at once for eggs.
Those who are taking up the work for the 
first time will kindly state the number and 
size of the trees from which they can obtain 
leaves, also the number of persons who can 
give their time during the latter period of 
the raising season, so that we will be able 
to send the necessary number of eggs. We 
also desire to state that eggs can be obtained 
from the Commission free, and we would 
prefer to have every one who is going to 
raise the worms obtain eggs from us, as we 
provide a quality which gives much better 
results than those raised by people having 
little or no experience. We will also send 
pamphlet of instructions free to those wish-
ing any information on this subject.
	We also wish to remind the people that 
the season for planting trees is here, and 
while we have been greatly pleased with 
the number of trees which have been 
planted during the last few years, yet we 
are anxious for an increase in this work, as 
the production of large quantities of silk in 
the future depends on the planting of trees 
now. One of the sad things which still 
comes to our notice is that we occasionally 
hear of some one's destroying some of the 
old trees, and we urge those who have be-
come interested in this important industry 
to be watchful lest any more of these valuable 
trees be destroyed.
	We again ask those who have trees and 
do not care to use them, to allow others to 
use the leaves, for we assure you it will 
only benefit the trees, even if they are strip-
ped, they will soon come out much more


beautiful and will only help to destroy the
fruit which is sometimes so annoying,
especially where trees are planted on the
street.
	Address all communications to Margaret
A. Caine, Secretary Utah Silk Commission,
Room 502, City and County Building, Salt
Lake City, Utah.


The chapter of the Autobiography of
Sister Sarah B. Layton, and also a part of
the Relief Society report of Granite Stake
were left out of this issue of the paper after
having been “set up,” also two poems, but
they will appear next month.


Woman’s Exponent.
		The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol 29 						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15 & MAY 1, 1901. 						Nos. 22 & 23


CONTENT.
A Second Letter....................................			95
R. S. Report............................				96
Notes and News..................................			96
Autobiography of Sarah B. Layton.............		97
Sixth Ward Anniversary......Elizabeth Condie	100
Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting...............		100
Relief Society Hall Dedicated...Emily Clark		101
Obituary........................................				101
R. S. and P. A. Reports..........................			101
Celebrations, March 17th......................			102
EDITORIAL—In Memoriam........................		96
	Editorial Notes..........................			97
POETRY—In the Wilderness of Mexico........	95
	Zion’s Mighty King..........L. D. Alder		97


[Column 1]
IN THE WILDERNESS OF MEXICO.
Camping on the lonely prairie, with a brilliant star-
	lit sky,
In the distance weird and weary, listening to the
	coyotes cry—
He is fierce and wild and hungry, watching at this
	midnight hour,
Howling, barking in a frenzy, seeking whom he
	may devour.
In this wilderness so quaint, nature’s children roam
	at will,
Savage tribes now run at riot, over plain, and
	dale and hill.
Through the grass so tall and slender, reptiles
	drag their length along,
In their nests the birdlings tender long have
	hushed their vesper song.

Craggy rocks the precious metals, like unwilling
	prisoners hold—
Flowers, too, have closed their petals, holding
	dewdrops in their fold,
Like sentinels the prickly cactus, rear their tower-
	ing forms on high,
As afflicted Saints in anguish, turn their faces to
	the sky.
Mascall, so heavy in her juices, dot the hillside
	thickly here.
Born to pamper man’s abuses, oft to cause the bit-
	ter tear!
Like so many of God's mercies, destined for a
	higher plain—
But by evil minds perverted, bringing endless grief
	and pain.

Even through the winter hours, oose is green—
	while graceful vine
Makes luxuriant fair bowers, in the treetops where
	they twine;
Mistletoe like faithful brothers, clinging in the
	limbs above,
Just as true, devoted mothers, never loose their
	bonds of love.
While the stralight soft and mellow, forms the
	covering of my bed,
Mother earth my welcome pillow, Father watch-
	ing overhead—
Wondering brain, in wakeful vision, wandering to
	former days—
Ancient peoples and their mission, what their
	habits, hopes and ways.

Now from out the yawning caverns, o’er the cliffs
	so high and steep—
Where they dwelt in fear and trembling, dusk[-]
	faces seem to peep—
Forms seem flitting from each crevice, voices
	whisper soft and low,
Echoing o’er hill and terrace, thrilling tales of
	long ago!
When the ancient tribes of Lehi sought to find the
	promised land,
Thither led by righteous Nephi, through the Lord’s
	inspired command.
He who took the wise position ere to live by holy
	light,
By example and monition, sought to guide his
	brothers right.
Yet though brothers of one mother, angry jealousy
	and strife,
Oft arose with one another, through their wild and
	rambling life.

Through repeated generations, peaceful days were
	far between.

[Column 2]
Though they laid such grand foundations, relics
	now of which are seen,
Mounds and terrace in profusion, strongholds in
	the mountain peak,
Where they fled in wild confusion, peace and safe-
	ty there to seek.
Records, too, were often hidden ’neath the strong,
	cemented wall.
Where the pine trees now unbidden, rear their
	branches thick and tall.
Smooth Matatti, broken oyer, hyroglyphics on the
	stones,
And uncovered there before you, bleaching,
	mouldering human bones.

And it seems opposing forces, met in warfare’s
	dread array.
For we find their battle axes, even at this distant
	day.
Ancient structures long since buried, modern
	science [-]as revealed
Pomp and crime, to one grave hurried—raging ele-
	ments concealed,
Was it when the blessed Savior gave His life for
	mortal sin?
That in penitent behavior, earth and sea their
	faces hid?
Beauteous plains and peaceful valleys, in convul-
	sive natures throe,
Wildly threw themselves together burying cities
	far below.

Closing o’er their wretched victims—silenced all
	their songs of war,
Stilled the voice of hopeful peacetime—final set-
	ting of life’s star—
No more to rise, till generations long have slept
	and passed away,
While their old corrupt traditions, with their bodies
	find decay
Heaven’s Truths are never vanquished! Writ on
	pages golden leaved—
Though long buried, while men languished, is
	again to earth revealed!

Telling of those ancient races, how they struggled
	with the right.
Till before their frightened faces, beamed the
	Everlasting Light!
Darkened natures to illumine, by God’s sacrifice
	for sin.
How His Son with passions human, came redemp-
	tion to begin.
How He taught the Jewish nation principles of
	righteousness,
Speaking words of sure salvation, all mankind to
	save and bless.
But rejected was the message, by the many on the
	earth!
Little knew they of the blessing, that would bring
	celestial birth.

For the world for many ages, long in stagnant
	darkness slept,
As we find on history’s pages, yearning men and
	women wept,
Heresies and false traditions, blinding faith, ob-
	scured desire—
Only lowered man’s condition, smouldering the
	dying fire,
Till a youth of humble station, destined by a
	power on high,
Had angelic visitation, telling where the records
	lie,
That restored again the Gospel, in its fulness to
	the earth,
Bringing to all tongues and peoples, promise of
	Eternal birth.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Colonia, Jaurez, Chihuahua, Mexico.


MRS. MCKINLEY is to be presented at
San Jose, with a bouquet more than a hun-
dred feet in circumference, and containing
two tons of flowers. The flowers will all be
contributed and a special committee are
working to have all the different varieties
of blossoms and leaves in the country in-
cluded.


A SECOND LETTER.

A WORD OF LOVE AND GREETING.

Beloved Sisters:

	Agreeable to our promise, and also in ac-
cord with our most heartfelt desires, we
again address you. It is our most earnest
wish that we may commence as though we
were actually in meeting with you and
could feel your presence with us; and by
the influence of the Holy Spirit we may
understand your inmost thoughts and needs
and be able to offer such suggestions as may
meet the necessities and fill the require-
ments of the sisters who are anxiously
striving to learn and do their full duties in
the Relief Society.
	Again we will remind you of the
holy and grand work for woman to
which you are called in this important
organization. As formerly stated, we will
also repeat that to be a good member of the
Relief Society, and especially to hold office
therein means work. There is always
business of importance to be looked after,
and it is highly essential that a correct
understanding of all the business of the
society be sought for and obtained, so that
all the work may be done in order and in
harmony.
	How necessary it is then that the Holy
Spirit be cultivated, as it is impossible to
carry on the work acceptably without it.
While with its aid and support, even the
weakest of us need not shrink from any duty
to which we may be called by proper
authority. And here we will say, that
when we are in the full line of our duty we
will be in accord with the priesthood.
	One great lesson for us to learn if we
have not already done so, is to speak no evil.
Study Christ’s Sermon on the Mount and
practice its teachings, especially remember-
ing ‘‘Blessed are the peace makers, for they
shall be called the children of God.”
	We are interested in the welfare of our
sisters, the young as well as the old; and we
invite you all to attend the Relief Society
meetings and conferences. Young mothers
would be greatly benefited and blessed by
the instructions of older sisters who have
gained wisdom by lives of toil and experi-
ence. The mission of a mother is a holy
calling, which is attended with many cares
and anxieties. And every mother needs
the Spirit of God to assist her.
	The more you attend your meetings, the
more the spirit of your callings will rest
upon you, and your burdens will become
lighter and your daily tasks be easier to
perform, and your life will be sweeter and
brighter. Teach your children to pray, to
observe the Sabbath, to have regard for the
authorities of the Church, their parents,
aged people, places of worship and all such
things. Teach them to be orderly, obedi-
dient while they are young, and their
minds are pure. Be awake, sisters, get the
Spirit of God, and don’t let the cares of life
and worldly things prevent you from at-
tending to the duties which you owe to God
and to each other. You have all received
talents from on high. Don't fold them in a


napkin and lay them away, but bring them
forth to be used for the benefit of mankind.
Let your light shine to help lighten the
world, that all may glorify our Father
which is in heaven.
	How rich were the blessings showered
upon the Saints at our late General Confer-
ence! Let us not forget or lose sight of
them. And how encouraging to us were
the great gatherings of the sisters at our
Relief Society Conference on the 8th of
April, 1901. Seldom before had we so large
an attendance at a sisters conference. Those
of you who had the privilege of being pres-
ent will, we trust and believe, try to fully
appreciate the point which was that day so
clearly and practically illustrated regarding
the necessity of our having a building of
our own suitable for our general conferences
and all needful business. And let the spirit
of progression, the influence felt at our con-
ference, be diffused throughout our entire
society, that every one may be profoundly
interested in the erection of our Woman’s
Building, and use all legitimate plans for
raising the necessary means to accomplish
this very desirable end. Talk up this
building, sisters, in all your assemblies and
in your conversation until the matter is ac-
complished, which we dare to anticipate may
be at an early day. But while talk and
agitation are essential we must keep in mind
that intelligent planning and energetic labor
are the agencies, after all, by which great
works are accomplished. 
	Let us show our appreciation of the mag-
nificent gift which the presidency of the
Church have bestowed upon us in the form
of a beautiful building site, by erecting
thereupon a building worthy of the situa-
tion; a house that shall stand as a monu-
ment to do honor to the women of Zion.
	Beloved sisters, we have hopes of seeing
the contemplated building completed in our
time, which, according to the common
course of mortality, may not be many years
longer in the flesh, and that President
Lorenzo Snow in his time may have the
privilege of dedicating it. We hope to hold
at least one conference with you in our own
building, and as many more as the Lord
may, in His infinite goodness, see fit to al-
low.
	Now, as always, we pray God to bless
you all in your loving and charitable duties,
and that His Spirit may guide and aid you
throughout your lives.
	Your sincere sisters and co-laborers,
ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
JANE S. RICHARDS. 
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
SARAH J. CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
GRANITE STAKE.
(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session, November 10, 1901,
Counselor Mary P. Young presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O say what is
truth.” Prayer by Sister Armeda S.
Young. Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and approved.
	Sister Young said, “We will now hear
the reports.”
	President M. E. Porter of Granger re-
ported her society in good condition; Presi-
dent Charlotte Neilson, of Hunter, reported
her society in a lively condition; President
Mary Parker, of South Taylorsville,
gave a good report; Counselor Louisa

[Column 2]
Cummings, of Wilford, reported the recent
organization of that ward and spoke of the
energy of the officers and members. The
number of teachers was eight and members
fifty. Counselor Julia Jensen, Big Cotton-
wood Ward, reported her society as making
it a practise of visiting those who were not
able to come out and holding meetings
in their homes.
	President M. I. Horne said: ‘I feel very
thankful, my brethren and sisters, to be at
your conference. I have visited among
you for about twenty years. I was very
much pleased with the minutes of your last
conference. You have excellent officers in
the Granite Stake, both men and women,
of God. I cannot say one thing to you of
benefit unless prompted by the spirit of the
Lord.” She was pleased with the remarks
of the president as they were timely and to
the point. “By our daily course we are
judged; our acts and thoughts are all open
to our Heavenly Father, the angels are
silent notes taking. As Brother Bennion
said this morning, 'We are here in a school,
we are to take our tabernacle and be proven
in this school by trials and tribulations.
How was it with Job?’ I often wonder
how it was that Satan was allowed to so
afflict and try him. Job was an upright
and just man.” Sister Horne spoke
earnestly and very interestingly upon the
trials of Job and his integrity, and said, “I
wonder why so many of our sisters stay
away from meetings? There is a book kept
of our record and another one is to be
opened, if we are so lucky as to have our
names recorded on the Lamb’s book of life,
we must arouse ourselves and have our
lamps trimmed and burning.” Spoke feel-
ingly on the sermon of President Cannon
concerning the coming of the Savior. The
signs of the times, said false spirits will
come among the people and teach false
doctrines. “When you see these signs
know the time is drawing nigh. Read the
Prophet Isaiah, it is full of prophesy con-
cerning these days.” Urged the young peo-
ple to read this book, especially the third
chapter. Quoted from Daniel and said the
prophecies of the Prophet Joseph Smith are
coming to pass daily. Drew our minds to
the condition of many of our people today
and their slackness. The Lord calls, per-
suades but forces no man to heaven. Felt
that the sisters had been too careless about
the wheat and the need of their waking up
and being more energetic concerning this
most important duty. “The time is coming
when those who will not take up their
sword against their neighbor must flee to
Zion. President Woodruff told us at the
dedication of the Temple that the sword
would be unsheathed and would reap down
the nations. The scriptures say, ‘I will
send them the truth, and if they do not ac-
cept it, I will send them fables.’ ” Refer-
red to the rebelion of Satan when he drew
one third of the hosts of heaven with him.
What would we have been if the Lord had
not organized the Relief Society through
the Prophet Joseph? We should have
been groveling with earthly things and
working at home not improving the spirit-
ual by attending these meetings. The
Prophet Joseph in his time said this society
would flourish and grow until it became
one of the greatest on the earth.
	Sister Horne then mentioned the Fairs
the Relief Society had in the early days and
the amount of means that had been raised
in this way. Encouraged the sisters to

[Column 3]
take hold of these things. She hoped that
 the sisters would take good care of the
wheat; flour should also be kept. She had
eaten bread made from flour kept for four-
teen years and it was sweet. Prayed that
the Lord would bless the officers and
Bishopric of the Stake who spend their time
in doing good. “May the Lord bless
you, sisters, and the Lord will bless you in
as much as you are faithful.”
	Winnefred Tibbs then pleased the congre-
gation with one of her interesting recita-
tions.
	Counselor Brockbank made some very
pleasing remarks and said many of the
wards would do well to pattern after Sister
Neff’s society. She enjoyed Brother Ben-
nion’s remarks, that by living up to our
duties we should receive blessings.”
	Treasurer Maria B. Winder felt a desire to
do all the good she could and felt an in-
terest in Relief Society work since travel-
ing among the sisters. Thought we should
pray in the assemblies. She spoke of the
Temple work and the good it had done her.
	Sister Armeda S. Young bore testimony
to her love of the Gospel.
	Counselor Mary P. Young made closing
remarks. “Two features that interested
me particularly were the reports of the two
extreme wards: one reported of their success-
ful Fair work, the other reporting of the
sisters of her society going to comfort with
words of cheer and encouraging with
their presence the afflicted ones who could
not attend their meetings. The world looks
upon death with fear. Related a story told
to the Primary children that showed so
beautifully the reason we should not fear
death, but always feel to say, “Thy will
not mine be done.” Spoke of some when
they had sickness feeling to rebel at their
condition and the spirit of darkness crept
over them and made them feel horrible.
But when they were resigned to God and
willing to say “Thy will not mine be
done,” peace would come to them. Sister
Young related numbers of instances of
mothers rebelling and the sorrows that
came to them. She then announced the
next conference to be held in three months.
Said Sister Woodruff wanted the mission-
aries to report at the next officers’ meeting.
Singing, “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.” Benediction by Counselor
Bennion.
			A. S. YOUNG, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A new compauy started this year in
Manchester, England, the “Manchester
Distributive Kitchen Limited,” will cook
meals and deliver them ready for the table
It is purely a business undertaking. If the
scheme meets with success, it will be ex-
tended to other localities, working-class
neighborhoods especially. The distribuitve
kitchens are expected to prove not only a
boon to women who cannot find cooks, but
a good training school for servants.
	Mrs. Ida Eckert Lawrence, of To-
ledo, O., has been chosen to write the poem
to be read at the launching of the battle-
ship “Ohio,” at San Francisco in May.
Mrs. Lawrence hopes to go to San Fran-
cisco to read her own poem. Mrs. Worth-
ington Babcock, of Columbus, a step-
daughter of Governor Nash, of Ohio, has
been selected to name the “Ohio.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ZION'S MIGHTY KING.
Upon the cross the Savior hung,
A crown of thorns pressed on his brow,
With anguish deep His heart is wrung;
Aloud he cries, “ ’Tis finished now.”

His slayers taunt with cruel scorn,
"Come down, if Son of God Thou be.”
The world’s Redeemer He was born,
From sin to set His people free.

In agony He bowed His head,
With broken heart and moans he died;
All nature groans, her light is fled,
God’s sinless Son is crucified.

These emblems eat, remem’bring Him, 
His body broken for our sake,
That we may life eternal win,
When in his likeness we awake.

Now of His blood so freely spilt,
Drink and make thy covenants new,
Then from the dreadful stains of guilt,
Thy trembling soul is purged anew.

O, solemn thought, the Savior’s slain!
But here we’ll testify of Him,
Till He shall come to earth again,
To reign as Zion’s Mighty King.
	Lydia D. Alder.


[Column 1]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)

	It was on the 3rd of September, 1852,
that we arrived, and the people were busy
discussing a sermon that Orson Pratt had
given the Sunday before our arrival.
	After resting some time and taking din-
ner with Brother Smith, I left Brother and
Sister Layton and went with my sister to
Kaysville, Davis Co., where she and her
husband had made a home,
	I staid with my sister a few days, but it
seemed that the only subject discussed was
what Orson Pratt had preached. I then
realized that there were more covenants and
obligations to enter into and I fully believed
the principle was true, but I felt that I was
not prepared to live in that order. I made
it a matter of prayer before the Lord, that
if I were not able to live up to those
covenants, that I might be released from my
promise. I spoke to Brother and Sister
Layton about it, and told them I did not
want to make those sacred covenants lest I
should not be able to live up to them. And
still in that principle there are promises that
are no where else. I realized I had coven-
anted to serve the Lord, and I could not
deny that as one of His orders for us to
obey if we would secure the highest degree
of glory, I sometimes wished that I had
not promised to obey that order. The
struggle to decide whether or not to enter
that order of marriage caused me to lose
many a night's sleep, and caused me to
utter many a fervent prayer to the Lord
that He would guide me. I felt that if I
now refused to respect the promise that I
had made I would be despised by my best
friends, and lose the respect of those who
once looked up to me, and those to whom I
had made promises would lose confidence in
me. I had believed the principle to be true
for a long time, and had heard one of the
apostles of this dispensation declare that the
Lord had given revelation telling the peo-
ple that they were to enter into that princi-
ple if they would have the highest degree
of glory. I had covenanted to serve the
Lord; I had obeyed the first principles of
Gospel, and in that I was told that I must
not stand still but must go on. On the
other hand, I remembered the words of my
father and mother. I thought of my
inability to live up to the requirements.

[Column 2]
I could find no way to be honorable to get
out of my promise. It seemed that the
more I tried to find a way to get away and
break my promise. the closer they would
cling to me. I could find fault with no-
body or nothing, but myself so I decided
to make the best of it. I told my Heaven-
ly Father that if He would give me strength
I would obey this principle and would do
the best I could trying to live up to it. So
Sunday, September 26, 1852, after the
morning meeting, we went to the Council
House, just south of where the Tabernacle
is, and there I was sealed to Brother Lay-
ton. I believed that I did right then, and I
think so till this day, for the principle is
true, but there are many hills to climb along
that road, and I have climbed a few, but am
satisfied.
	Brother Layton bought a home in the
Fifteenth Ward, and made some additions
to the building and we were very comfor-
tably situated. He had a great many cattle
that he had brought from the East, and
they were running loose over Jordan. He
thought it best to put a small house
over there and move where he could see
after the stock. So he bought logs and
put up a small room, and on the 9th of
November we started for our new home.
The snow was very deep, so deep that it
piled in great heaps in front of the axle.
There was a great thaw at that time and
when we reached the house the water was
running through it; there was no roof over
it, but we got some willows from the river
and placed on the top and then put some
dirt on top of them and soon had shelter.
	That was a very cold, hard winter. We
lost many of our fine blooded stock. One
night, I well remember, there was a very
heavy storm from the north and one of our
best mares came up to the side of the
house and cried so pitifully that my hus-
band could not bear to hear it, so he got up
and brought it in the room where we were
sleeping; and though the house was small,
the animal was put in one side, there it
stood quiet all night and its life was saved.
	On January 1, 1853, Sister Layton gave
birth to a boy. That night it began to
rain, and our roof was not water-proof so
that the water came through the roof all
over, not excepting where Sister Layton
was lying. We kept her dry as best we
could with a large umbrealla and oilcloth
coat. I had stored a few pieces of slab
away, and this came in very handy then
for fire. This and the green willows that
we had for fuel kept the fire going all
night, and we got along very well, neither
Sister Layton nor the infant took cold and
we could but acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in preserving them under such cir-
cumstances. We were happy and enjoyed
ourselves, but I sometimes think that if the
young people of today had that to go
through, what would they do?
	My father, mother and family emigrated
to Utah in the year ’53. My father did
not join the Church until he reached Utah.
In the spring the Indians were very
troublesome in many of the settlements,
and in places where it was thinly settled;
but although we were away from everybody
we never saw an Indian.
	In August we moved back to Salt Lake
to our home for the winter, and on the 8th
of August I gave birth to my first son, we
gave him the name of Hyrum John. The
next spring my husband bought a place on
Emigration Street, in the Thirteenth

[Column 3]
Ward, and we set up a butcher shop and
we began the business; we also had one on
Main Street. Having so much grease, as
we would in that business, we made a
great deal of soap and candles. We were
glad to get the candles to burn in those
days, for lamps were a rarity, and not all
could afford to buy candles. We were not
troubled with so many of the diseases as
we have now, we had no use for so many
lawyers as we have now and we did not
have all of these pleasure resorts to draw
the people away, but we lived and minded
our own business and attended to the work
in which we were engaged and had the
blessing of the Lord to depend upon. We
did very well with that business, and the
people in passing through the country to
the land of gold, as it was called, would
bring many things that were useful to us.
	In the spring of 1855 President Young
advised Brother Layton to give up the
butcher business and go into the country
and buy a farm. He obeyed counsel and
went into Tooele County and bought a
farm from Mr. Seth M. Blair. The farm
was near Grantsville and we moved to that
place for the winter. On the 18th of
January, 1856, my second child, a girl,
was born, and we called her Mary Ann. I
was very sick that winter, and came near
losing my life.
	At the April conference Brother Layton,
together with a number of others, was
called to take his family and all that he
had and go to the Carson valley, both as
missionary and to settle that part of the
country. We sold our farm to a man
named John Caley, and by the 1st of May
we were ready to start. The 10th of May
found us crossing Bear river. We arrived
at the Washa valley about July 16th
Brother Layton immediately started for
California to get the flour, as we had but
very little. The day he arrived we had
but enough to make one pan of biscuits,
and we had been very saving that it should
last till his return. It was a difficult thing
to get salt and what we did get we paid
twenty cents a pound for, while sugar was
selling for eight cents. But we had to be
very careful with everything to eat, for all
that we had was brought over the mount-
ains from California on pack mules or
horses. We kept a small store and took in
considerable money that way. But we were
left without men in camp very often and
the Indians would flock around our camp.
They would come and cook their game on
our stove and spread their blankets down
on the ground by the side of our wagons
and sleep, but there was not much sleep
for me when they were around. Brother
Layton’s father, a blind man, was with us
in camp all the time, but with that exception
we were left with our children days at a
time, but they never molested us in the
least. We attended to our prayers and had
the satisfaction of knowing that we were
remembered by our Heavenly Father. Late
in the fall Brother Layton built a large log
house, and then we were in good condition
for the winter.
		(To be continued.)


MISS ROSE LANE, of Buffalo, N. Y., who
died a short time ago, has been described as
a “mother to thousands,” from the fact
that as the “orphan agent” of Erie County
she had found homes for nearly three 
thousand children.


Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM. 
It would be utterly impossible even to 
attempt to do justice in words to so eminent 
a man and so true a Latter-day Saint as 
President George Q. Cannon; yet some ex-
pression we must give, some tribute we 
must pay to his memory and loving ser-
vice for humanity and the people of his 
own faith, so near and dear to him, and the 
cause for which he would willingly have 
laid down his own life; how faithfully he 
served thousands can and do bear witness.
A great and good man, a giant in intellectu-
al endowments, a pure-minded and chaste 
man, though he was reviled and persecuted 
for his belief in the principles which the 
world condemn. 
President Cannon was one of nature's 
noblemen, refined, sensitive, tender and 
true as steel, his whole life was a grand 
poem in itself, and one could truthfully 
say of him, as Shakespeare said of one of 
his heroes: 
"His life was gentle, and the elements 
So mixt in him, that nature might stand up.
And say to all the world,- This is a man." 
No doubt he inherited many of the 
sterling qualities of character, but he also 
cultivated those nobler traits and attributes
of mind and heart, that lift a man above the 
grosser elements of human nature 
bringing him nearer to the divine. To 
know President Cannon intimately was a 
sort of education in itself, and one could not 
but feel his power for good when in his 
presence. Men of the world with whom he 
was associated in business matters and his
colleagues in the Congress of the United 
States all realized and felt the great intellec-
tual power and maganimmity of this 
wonderful man among men. He was one 
of the staunchest and truest friends, not only 
to woman, but to woman's cause in the 
broad and liberal sense of emancipation and 
equal rights and privileges.
But he has gone from us to enter into a 
higher and holier state of existence. We 
shall see his face no more, nor hear his 
clear, penetrating, harmonious voice in our 
great public congregations and assemblies.
Gone to join the innumerable company of 
the redeemed upon the other side and has 
doubtless met his loved ones there, the 
wife of his youth, his little children who 
were taken away so young, his sons grown 
to manhood, who passed away when life 
seemed bright and full of promise; his 
mother whose death at sea was such a grief

[Column 2]
to him in his childhood; his father who 
died at a much earlier age than himself,
while sojourning in St. Louis, ere he had 
reached Nauvoo. Beside these dear ones 
he has met, we believe, Brigham Young,
his uncle, John Taylor, and Wilford
Woodruff, all of whom he labored with in 
the Gospel, and Joseph the Prophet, whom 
he knew and revered as the great leader of 
this dispensation, and hosts of Saints and 
brethren whome he knew and who loved 
and reverenced him.
Much as we may long for his presence,
even his family who loved him most and 
best, they cannot call him back, he has 
gone to the city John the revelator saw in 
vision.
"To the city set with jasper, having twelve founda-
tions fair,
Flashing from their jeweled splendor, every color
soft and rare. 
Twelve in number are its gateways—numbered by
the seer of old—
Every gate a pearl most lustrous—and its streets 
are paved with gold
In the midst in dazzling whiteness, lightens the 
eternal throne; 
From it flows the living water—round it gleams an 
emerald zone. Luscious fruits and balmy odors, healing leaves 
and cooling shade,
Either side the Life-tree sheddeth, by sweet storms 
of music swayed.
O, thou grand and templed city, seen by John in 
vision bright,
Glory-flooded, needing neither, sun by day nor 
moon by night.
Filled forever and forever by the shining light of
Him
Who redeemed the world and sitteth throned be-
tween the seraphim. 
Through thy lovely gates the nations, of the world
 in triumph stream,
Chanting praise above all praises--love of love 
their holy theme. 
They no more shall thirst or hunger, they no more 
with heat shall faint; 
Christ for tears shall give them gladness, blissful 
rest for sore complaint.
"Blessed they who do His bidding," cries the angel,
day and night,
They shall find abundant entrance—they shall
walk with Him in white." 
George Quayle Cannon was born in 
Liverpool, England, January 11, 1827.
His parents, George and Ann Quayle Can-
non, were natives of Peel, on the Isle of 
Man, but his ancestors came originally from 
the borders of Scotland. George Q. was 
the eldest of seven children; his sisters, 
Mary Alice and Ann, and his brothers,
Angus M. and David A. also a younger 
sister, Leonora, and half-sister, Elizabeth,
by his father's second marriage, after his 
mother's death, all survive him. He leaves 
a large family of his own, wives, children 
and grandchildren, to mourn his loss—to
them irreparable. 
President Cannon's life from his youth to 
the close was a busy one, filled with work 
grand, noble and inspiring, no matter how 
hard the way seemed, he always saw the 
light shining in darkness, it was the bright-
ness of his own happy, buoyant spirit. 
In Nauvoo Brother Cannon worked in 
the printing office of the Times and Seasons 
and Nauvoo Neighbor, there he learned the 
printing business. He was in the house-
hold of Elder John Taylor, whose wife was 
his father's sister. Under his hands 
George Q. was ordained an Elder, Febru-
ary 5, 1845, and the same day ordained a 
seventy. He traveled with the Saints in 
Winter Quarters, leaving Nauvoo at the 
time of the exodus, and crossed the plains 
in 1847 with his Uncle Taylor's company,
arriving in the valley October 3, of that 
year. In 1849 he was sent on a mission

[Column 3]
to California and endured great priva tions 
and in 1850 he was called with nine others 
to take a mission to the Sandwich Islands, 
where they landed December 12, 1850; not 
meeting with much success, most of the 
Elders decided to leave, but Brother Can-
non declared he would stay and preach to 
the natives if he had to remain alone. Four 
of the missionaries stayed with him, he 
learned the language by diligence and 
study and the gift of God, in a marvelously 
short time and was soon able to preach the 
Gospel to the natives in their own tongue.
He translated the Book of Mormon into the 
Hawaiian language and with his brethren 
was so successful that when they left the 
islands in July, 1853, there were more than 
four thousand members in the Church in 
that country. He went on another mission 
to California, May, 1855, and during that 
mission published the Western Standard 
and also the Book of Mormon in Hawaiian,
which he had previously translated. He 
returned by advice of President Young at 
the time of Johnston's army reaching this 
city, January, 1858, and was appointed 
Adjutant General in the army of defence.
He was soon after sent to Fillmore with the 
printing press and material of the Deseret 
News, which he published there from April 
to September in 1858.
On his way home from Fillmore he was 
n tified to take a mission to the Eastern 
States for which, after his arrival, he got 
ready in three quarters of an hour. He 
was away nearly two years laboring among 
editors and prominent members of Congress 
to correct misrepresentations made against 
this people. He had charge of the branches 
of the Church in the East and acted as 
emigration agent in New York. On his re- 
turn he was ordained an Apostle, August 
26, 1860. Six weeks after he was sent to 
Europe to take charge of the Millenial Star 
and the emigration business at Liverpool,
where he landed December 21, 1860, and 
established a Church printing office. He 
remained there until May 14, 1862, when 
he was called to Washington, D. C., to 
meet Captain Hooper, who had been elected 
delegate to Congress. They endeavored to 
obtain the admission of the Territory into 
the Union as a state at that time. 
When Congress adjourned Brother Can-
non returned to England, arriving July 21,
1851, where he presided over the European
mission until 1864, visiting the branches of 
the Church in Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland and France. After his return 
he became the private secretary of Presi-
dent Young for three years. In the winter 
of 1864 and '65 he organized and taught 
a Sunday School in the 14th ward of this 
city. 
In January, 1866, he commenced the 
publication of the Juvenile Instructor, of 
which he continued to be the editor to the 
time of his demise. In the fall of 1867 he 
took charge of the Deseret News, which 
was then weekly and semi-weekly, but on 
November 21st of that year he issued the 
first number of the daily under the title of 
the Deseret Evening News, continuing for 
several years editor and publisher, though 
traveling much through the settlements 
with the first Presidency and Apostles.
In 1871 he was sent to Washington, D.
C., with President George A. Smith, where 
he spent his time defending the people of 
Utah from the attacks of their enemies.
After his return home he was elected a 
member of the Constitutional Convention


[Column 1]
of 1872, and after the Constitution was
framed and adopted he went to Washing-
ton with Hon. Thomas Fitch and Hon.
Frank Fuller, to present the Constitution
and apply for Utah’s admission to state-
hood again.
	In August, 1872, he was elected Delegate
to succeed Hon. W. H. Hooper, and was
re-elected four successive terms, making
five in all. His course in Congress was so
irreproachable, and his wisdom and judg-
ment so admirable that he won the respect
and confidence of all with whom he came
in contact. He was highly esteemed by all
as a man of refinement and excellent abili-
ty, and he never failed to win the confi-
dence and good-will of all whom it was his
duty or privilege to associate with, however
great their station in life or in affairs of
State.
	The latter part of the life of President
Cannon is perhaps better known to our peo-
ple than the earlier occurrences, although
he has really occupied a higher position in
the Church in later years. He has been
General Superintendent of the Sunday
School Union ever since its organization in
1867, which has grown to be such an im-
portant institution in Zion. He was a mem-
ber of the General Board of Education from
its organization, April 5, 1888, and he filled
many positions of public trust beside those
of the Church, always with credit to him-
self and the cause he represented. His
life was a very busy one, no man could do
more, his capacity for work of the best
quality seemed unlimited. His books are
all perfectly written and contain exalted
truths, and it would be well for the Saints
to read or re-read them and recommend
them especially to the youth of Zion, His
magazine articles written for various period-
icals were always worthy of the man and
his subject, and though the outside world
did not agree with his religious views, yet
his literary ability was admired by the
most competent judges.
	To the saints who are living he must
seem very real, for his work and its results
are everywhere apparent, he has left behind
him indeed a shining mark that will light
the way for all time. “He is not dead, but
sleepeth” is true of President George Q.
Cannon. His memory is more than a
shadow, it is engraven on the hearts of those
who heard his wonderfully magnificent
voice, his sublime teachings, his cordial
greetings on all occasions. The youth of
Zion should strive to attain to the same ex-
cellence in all they undertake, never give up
President Cannon was a self-made man, so
far as education of his own time, he was a
student of the Bible, but he had not the
opportunities for schools and colleges that
the young men of today enjoy, and yet he
surpassed most men of his time in the ac-
quirement of learning and accomplishments.
He regretted not having had the advantages
of a classical education, but his indomitable
perservance in the pursuit of knowledge
was almost unparalleled.
	President Cannon passed away surrounded
by near and loving relatives although far
from his own home and many dear ones,
yet in a beautiful spot in the old city of
Monterey, California, commanding a fine
view of the Bay, which was pleasant to look
out upon.
	Of his illness the public were almost
daily notified by telegrams to the friends at
home, which were published in the city
papers.
	The funeral services held in the large

[Column 2]
Tabernacle were numerously attended and
the great organ pealing forth its grandly
sublime notes awakened the tenderest emo-
tions of the human heart, albeit attuned to
sadness, and yet to victorious triumph.
	The first hymn by the choir was Presi-
dent Woodruff’s favorite, “God moves in a
mysterious way.” The prayer was offered
by Apostle F. M Lyman, and a male chorus
of the best singers rendered the funeral
anthem, “Not dead, but sleepeth.”
	The speakers of the occasion were the
Apostles and First Presidency, men with
whom his life had been spent in loving ser-
vice for the Gospel, and many glowing
tributes were paid to his memory by these
great and noble men who had labored with
him and knew whereof they spoke.
	During the service Elder R. C. Easton
rendered “Sister Eliza’s” immortal invo-
cation, “O, my Father,” in a most impres-
sive style, his superb voice filling the
Tabernacle with melody. A male quartette
gave beautifully, “O, Love Divine,” and
the last musical number was Evan Stephen’s
anthem, “When the Soul is Sad and Weary
Seek Relief in Prayer.”
	The white draping festooned with heavy
white silk cord and tassels and rosettes and
bows of white satin ribbon made the place
sacred and fitting for such service over one
whose life had been consecrated to the ser-
vice of his Lord and Master.
	The floral emblems were suggestive of the
various places he had filled and the work he
had performed. The flowers were the
choicest and rarest varieties to be obtained.
	The gift of the Sunday School was a large
open book encircled with a wreath and a
tablet with the words “The Childrens’
Friend.” From the family a floral mauso-
leum with solid roof, and floor of pink and
white carnations and roses, and columns
twined with smilax and flowers, the word
“Father” embedded in the banked flowers.
	There were many other exquisite floral
offerings and the effect was beyond any
mere description on paper or canvas, and
must have been seen to be realized or appre-
ciated. The fragrance and beauty com-
bined with the exquisite taste of the ar-
rangement reminded one of the poet who
wrote,

	“Flowers preach to us if we will hear.”

	After the funeral cortege had reached the
cemetery and while the casket was being
lowered into the grave the quartette rendered
the good old hymn, “Come ye disconsolate.”
	The grave was dedicated by Apostle
Anthon H. Lund, and Bishop John R.
Winder expressed, in behalf of the family,
gratitude for all the kindness and the at-
tention shown them in their time of sorrow
and affliction. The quartette sang, “When
the Swallows Homeward Fly.” The grave
was literally embowered in flowers. Presi-
dent Cannon was buried at the side of his
wife, Elizabeth, who died in 1882, and his
two sons, Abraham and David, and
other children.

		CROSSING THE BAR.
	“Sunset and evening star, 
		And one clear call for me!
	And may there be no moaning of the bar,
		When I put out to sea.

	“But such a tide as moving seems asleep,
		Too full for sound and foam,
	When that which drew from out the bound-
			less deep,
		Turns again home. 

[Column 3]
	“Twilight and evening bell,
		And after that the dark!
	And may there be no sadness of farewell,
		When I embark.

	“For tho’ from out the bourne of Time and
			Place
		The flood may bear me far,
	I hope to meet my Pilot face to face,
		When I have crossed the bar.—TENNYSON”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have a number of anniversary meet-
ings held in March that we are unable to
find space for at this time, and we also have
held over the minutes of the General Relief
Society Conference, but they will be pub- 
lished during the present mouth. There is
also much other matter on hand, but we
hope to use it all within a reasonable time.
	By request of Mrs. May Wright SeWall,
who represents the United States on the
International Peace Commission of Women,
it is expected the women of Utah will
arrange for meetings on Peace and Arbi-
tration on Saturday, May 18. Certainly
our sisters throughout the state are in favor
of creating a sentiment for peace. A call
will soon be issued through the local papers.
	We are sure the sisters everywhere wil
be delighted to know that Sister Zina D.
H. Young, President of the Relief Society,
has recovered from her recent severe illness,
which prostrated her for a few days, alarmed
some of her friends and prevented her at-
tending the General Conference of the Relief
Society held in April in the Assembly Hall,
in this city. We all rejoice to see her again
in our midst and trust her health and
strength may be equal to the duties and re-
sponsibilities of the honorable position she
occupies in the Church.
	On April 11, 1901, at the residence of
Mrs. Alonzo E. Hyde, in this city, a num-
ber of ladies met, by invitation of Mrs.
Hyde, in honor of the birthday of her
revered mother, who passed away recently,
and organized a society which they named
“The Daughters of the Pioneers.” We
hope to give particulars and names of
officers in the next issue of the Exponent.
Mrs. Hyde is at present in Logan, and
consequently we have not been able to get
the proper notice to publish.
	The workers in the Salt Lake Temple
and a few friends gave a party in the Bee
Hive House, April 3, President Lorenzo
Snow’s eighty-seventh birthday anniversary,
and with congratulations, music, floral
tributes and other beautiful things and
choice sentiments, spent a few hours happi-
ly in honoring this venerable leader of the
hosts of Israel. The Exponent adds its
sincere congratulations and hopes and trusts
he may live yet many years in health and
strength and fully accomplish the work as-
signed to him of the Lord.
	Mrs. L. M. Hewlings, who died at the
Cannon House, in this city, April 23, 1901,
was a very remarkable woman. Our readers
will remember her through her writing for
the Exponent, and the poem “Crumbling”
published in the last issue of the paper was
composed by her during her last illness. A
brief sketch of her life will be given later.
She was the sister of the editor, and has
written occasionally for our paper for more
than twenty years, and as she never re-
ceived any remuneration for her writings
except a copy of the paper, we feel it only
just and proper she should become better


known to our readers through some inter-
esting incidents in her life. Mrs. Hewlings
was a philanthropist in the true sense of the
word.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SIXTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	The third anniversary of the Sixth Ward
Relief Society, held in commemoration of
the first organization by our beloved
prophet, Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Ill.,
was held in the Sixth ward Assembly Hall,
March 18th, 1901, at 2 o’clock p. m., Presi-
dent West presiding, Counselors Ellen R.
West and Alice Butterworth assisting.
On the stand were Bishop James C. Wat-
son, Counselor Allen Burt, Patriarch Jesse
West, Brothers Arnold G. Giauque, James
Latham, Carl A. Ek, Thomas Green, Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A., Albert Reiser
and Organist Jane Poulton.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer by Bishop James C.
Watson. Singing, “How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President West felt grateful for the pres-
ence of the brethren and sisters with us on
this occasion to celebrate the anniversary of
the first organization of the Relief Society
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Spoke of the
noble work the Relief Society was doing,
the growth of this work. Many noble
women are heart and soul in this work.
Much good had been done, the poor had
been relieved, the sick ministered to. Our
Heavenly Father blessed us in our labors.
Spoke of the importance of assisting with
our means towards the building of a Relief
Society hall, where the sisters could meet.
	Sister Hickenlooper said the first princi-
ple taught to her after embracing the Gos-
pel was obedience. This she had tried to
observe. When we are humble and will-
ing to be obedient to those in authority
over us, the Lord blesses us. Gave a brief
sketch of the first Relief Society work in
the Sixth Ward. Though they were not
properly organized, yet several sisters were
noble women endeavoring to alleviate the
sufferings of the poor and sick. She, with
Sister Robins, Sister West and many others,
were untiring in their efforts in visiting,
cheering and ministering to those in need.
	Sister Pugh felt to sustain the presiding
officers in regard to erecting a Relief Soci-
ety hall where all can meet. Prayed the
Lord to open up her way, that she might
donate her mite in assisting in this worthy
cause. “We sisters feel that it is an aim
worthy of our means and we should sustain
those over us in such a noble effort. Let
us endeavor to keep the commandments of
God better in the future than in the past.
	Sister Caroline F. Fulmer left home when
quite a girl for the Gospel and never felt to
regret so doing. Her parents came some
time afterward. Had been associated with
many noble women who were earnest work-
ers in the Relief Society, Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith being one of them. Said,
“Her teachings have made me a better
woman, she taught me true principles.”
	Bishop James C. Watson spoke of the
kindness of Sister Hickenlooper to him dur-
ing the time of the move to Provo.
Spoke of the integrity of President West,
her faith in the servants of God and in the
administration, being raised from sickness
to health able to perform her duties. Spoke
of the indifference of some of the sisters in
attending Relief Society meetings. Said
this room should be filled today. Spoke of

[Column 2]
the progress the sisters were making. The
Prophet Joseph in organizing the Relief
Society did not realize the magnitude of
this grand work. Desired soon to have a
better hall for the brethren and sisters to
meet in. Invoked the blessing of the Lord
on all present.
	Patriarch Jesse West said one year ago
we met on a similar occasion. We breth-
ren are interested with the sisters in this
work. Spoke of the good instructions
given in this hall a short time ago by
Apostle Cowley, also of the necessity of the
organization of Y. L. M. I. A. and other
auxiliaries of the Church for the benefit of
the youth. The Lord in His wisdom in-
spired the presidency of the Church to or-
ganize these associations to inspire the
young. Spoke of the indifference of many
in living up to their privileges. The Lord
inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith to or-
ganize the Relief Society. We are all in-
terested in this grand and noble work with
them, they are ministers of peace, taking
words of comfort to the suffering, assisting
the poor. Referred to the integrity and
unity of the sisters and the progress of the
work of the Lord.
	Counselor Alexander Burt had recently
visited with them in their meeting, enjoyed
himself very much. The Spirit of the Lord
was in their midst. Was requested by
President West to speak to the sisters at
that meeting, felt well while so doing.
Spoke of the noble work they were doing,
also of the bad effects of evil speaking; the
care we should have in speaking of each
other, not try to hurt each other’s feelings.
All are not constituted alike, let us be wise
in these things. Seek for wisdom from our
Heavenly Father, that we may see aright.
	Elder Arnold Giauque spoke of the mag-
nitude of the work which had been done by
the sisters. When the angel of death enters
into a family, they are ministers of peace to
cheer and comfort the bereaved, to clothe our
dear ones who are called home in suitable
robes. “I have received of their kindness
at a time of this kind. I appreciated it
more than I can express. None are exempt
from shortcomings and weaknesses. Is the
Lord to blame for this? No. But He has
opened a way for us to retrieve them, if we
live up to the principles of the Gospel we
shall learn to overcome them. I have seen
a man’s life so changed after he had received
the Gospel in its truth and purity that he
was not like the same man, so changed
were his acts and course in life. He was
full of love for the Gospel.” Spoke of the
magnitude of this Latter-day work. Invoked 
the blessings of our Heavenly Father on the
society.
	Brother James Latham spoke of the anni-
versary of the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
of the integrity of President West with
whom he had been acquainted over forty-
one years. In every capacity he had found
her faithful in ministering to the sick,
cheering those who were cast down; she
never faltered. Counselor Alice Butterworth
he had also known forty-seven years ago,
from her childhood. She had been highly
favored of the Lord with abundant means,
and she had extended the hand of charity
and kindness to many. Such acts of kind-
ness were not openly known. The Prophet
Joseph in organizing the Relief Society was
inspired of the Lord. He did not foresee
fully the magnitude of this work the grand
effects it has produced it does not reach

[Column 3]
alone to the several Stakes of Zion but it
has grown till it extends to the islands of
the sea, and wherever the Gospel has been
preached there also is the Relief Society,
and it will continue to grow.
	Brother Thomas Green spoke of the in-
tegrity of President West, also of the sisters
connected with the Relief Society. Did
not believe in class distinction. The Lord
blessed the poor, spoke of them in His ser-
mon. He himself came of humble birth,
this teaches us humility. We should be
ministers of peace to cheer the distressed,
alleviate the wants of the poor. Endorsed
the sentiments of the former speakers.
	Brother Carl A. Ek said he had come to
meet with the sisters in honor of the first
organization. Referred to a painful acci-
dent a brother had met with, also his ad-
verse circumstances. Spoke of the sym-
pathy and kindness of the Bishop, also the
president of the Relief Society. Spoke of
his busy life thus being deprived to a great
extent of the society of his wife and family.
Said, “The society is doing a noble work.
My wife is a teacher in the Relief Society
and feels well in the performance of her
duties.
	Sister Ek was pleased to be one with her
sisters in this society. Felt blest in per-
forming her duty and spoke of her recent
sickness.
	Sister Swenson also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth, was blest in performing
her duties.
	Brother Albert Reiser said he was pleased
to meet to celebrate the anniversary of the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Spoke of the respect he had for these sis-
ters; also of the magnitude of their work
and the great good they were performing,
alleviating the suffering and pain of the
sick. His mother was connected with the
society, it was through her faith and pray-
ers in his behalf during a severe illness he
had, that convinced him of the truth of the
Gospel and he received a testimony of the
same. The sisters have a right to minister
to the sick, and in this they will not over-
reach their authority. Spoke of their faith
and prayers in ministering to the sick, and
the benefit and consolation he had derived
during his mother’s sickness, and after her
death they were there to cheer, comfort and
prepare and clothe her in proper robes. The
young ladies are beginning to see and real-
ize the importance of the Relief Society and
to honor the sisters in their calling.
	Bishop James C. Watson made closing
remarks. Benediction by Patriarch Jesse
West.
	The evening was spent in a social dance.
		ELIZABETH CONDIE, Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Febru-
ary 9, 1901, at 2 p. m , with Counselor
Stevenson presiding.
	Opened by singing “For the strength of
the hills.” Prayer by Sister Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “All hail the glorious
day.” Minutes of December 15, 1900, were
read and accepted
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the sick-
ness of President M. I. Horne, that she was
just convalescing. Spoke of the sacred house
we are meeting in today and of the many
excellent meetings held here.
	Sister Mair said she felt thankful to be 
here, had been a member of the Church


twenty-five years, and was thankful for it.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she knew
that God loved His daughters as well as
His sons, and she had never regretted that
she was a woman. This house would not
hold the women of Zion if they knew what
was good for them.
	Sister Smith bore her testimony. She
felt all should pray for those who preside
over us; said how the Lord had blessed her
with health to perform Temple work.
	Sister Hardy bore her testimony, also
Sister Julia C. Howe, who said God had
planted a love of the Gospel in her heart.
Said she had felt she could never get over
the loss of her relatives, but now she felt
that where her treasures were, there her
heart is also. Hoped we would all prove
faithful to the end.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O Jesus, the
Giver,” assisted by the congregation.
	Sister Hannah Lapish spoke of a vision
she had received, and Sisters Hannah
Workman, Long, Gardner, Long, Wood-
ward, Martha Morris, Sister Shaw, and
several others whose names were not known
to the secretary, bore their testimonies.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger said she felt
the Spirit of God was here, and she felt
thankful for the testimonies of so many.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said: "It is a great
privilege to meet together. Sisters, let us
set an example before our children. Do
not let us even play cards. I know a great
many Latter-day Saints entertain their
friends in card playing, I believe it a
device of the evil one to lead us away. Let
us remember every light word must be ac-
counted for.
	Counselor Stevenson thought the time
had been profitably spent. We are told out
of the books we are to be judged, so let us
not let the records be blanks. Exhorted all
to overcome their timidity and all bear their
testimonies.
	Singing, ‘‘Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by Julia S. Woolley.
				J. S.WOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY HALL DEDICATED.
	The Provo Third Ward Relief Society
dedicated their new and beautiful hall on
Friday, March 15, 1901, it being just one
year from the time of commencement until
the dedication.
	The services were held at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent Eliza N. Taylor presiding. After
singing by the ward choir and prayer was
offered, short speeches were made by the
president of the ward society and her
counselors, some of the Stake officers, also
the presidency of the Stake. President
David John offered the dedicatory prayer,
A duet by John Johnson and Emma Knud-
sen. The Bishop of the ward, F. W. Taylor,
spoke in praise of the great work accom-
plished by the sisters and a song was sung
by James E. Daniels.
	After the closing exercises the congrega-
tion adjourned to the Assembly Hall, where
a sumptuous dinner was in waiting, about
four hundred partaking thereof. In the
evening a fine program was rendered.
This completed the day, which will long be
remembered by all.
EMILY CLAR, Sec.


IN San Francisco the authorities have
taken action against the slavery of Chinese
girls by arresting a number of the girls and
preparing to send those who have not certifi-
cates back to China.


OBITUARY.
	Again we are called to report the death of a be-
loved sister and friend, Sister Ann Methly Abel,
who died at her home in American Fork, January 
7, 1901.
	Sister Abel was born June 27, 1824, in Sheffield,
Yorkshire, England. With her husband and chil-
dren she emigrated to Utah in 1863, and settled in 
American Fork, where she continued to reside un-
til her death. She was the mother of eight chil-
dren, five of whom survive her; also twenty-two 
grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. She 
was an affectionate wife, a devoted mother and a 
good friend, always willing and ready at any 
time, day or night, to help in sickness or death, and 
by her industry setting an example worthy of emu-
lation.
	She was a faithful and energetic teacher in the 
Relief Society from its first organization until
about five years ago, when her health failed and 
she very reluctantly had to give up the work which 
had been a labor of love with her. She was in 
very deed a true Latter-day Saint, and through all 
her sickness was patient and cheerful, her faith in 
he ordinances af the Gospel never faltered.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 

	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father 
to remove our dear sister and take her to a higher 
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful 
worker in the cause of truth and that we desire to 
emulate her earnest labors; and be it 
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the 
bereaved husband and children and pray our 
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influences 
of His holy spirit rest upon them that they may 
realize that she has only gone before and is enjoy-
ing the rest of the faithful and will come forth to a 
glorious immortality and eternal life. And be it 
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be 
placed on our record, one sent to the bereaved 
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for 
publication.
	Committee in behalf of the Relief Society. 
					ELLEN D. CLARKE, 
					ELIZABETH MCCARTY. 
		ANE ANDERSON POULSEN.
	Ane Anderson Poulsen, born July 21, 1822, in 
Fastrup, Denmark. She was married to August 
Poulsen in 1830. They removed to Alborg where 
they embraced the Gospel in 1858 and endured 
much persecutien for the sake of the Gospel. Their 
home was the home of the Elders. They never 
tired of ministering to their wants. 
	Six children were born to them, of whom four 
are living, three sons and a daughter, the latter 
emigrating to Utah under the care of the Elders 
in 1867. The next year her husband and two of 
their sons emigrated to the valley of the mountains, 
where her husband labored to earn sufficient 
means to send back for his wife and their remain-
ing child. In the year 1870 they made their home 
in Alpine, Utah Co., where her husband departed 
this life in 1877.
	In the year 1884 she moved to Arizona together
with her children where she resided until the day 
of her death, December 3, 1900.
	Sister Poulsen was a faithful Latter-day Saint 
and an active member of the Relief Society of the 
Graham ward, St. Joseph Stake, and the first one 
removed by death since the society was organized 
over seventeen years ago. 
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the Lord has called from our midst 
our beloved sister,
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death the 
loss of a worthy member and a good Latter-Saint 
worthy the respect of all.
	That we sympathize with her family in the loss 
of a kind and affectionate mother.
	That these resolutions be placed on our records, 
that a copy of the same be presented to the family
and also to the EXPONENT for publication.
					MARY E. SKINNER, 
					MARY A. PETERSON, 
					MARY J. TALLEY, 
								Committee.


[Column 1]
	    R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS. 
	SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.

	Minutes of Primary conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly Hall,
March 15, 1901, President Camilla C. Cobb
presiding.
[Column 2]
	Meeting opened by singing “Gladly
meeting." Prayer was offered by Master
Sterling Talmage. Singing, “I think
when I read that sweet story of old.” Roll
called, twenty-two assistants present, each
responding with sentiments in concert.
Minntes of previous conference read and
accepted.
	The following program was carried out:
	Song, “In our lovely Deseret,” by all
of the children. Song, by four little girls
of the Eleventh Ward. Recitation by
Margaret Taylor, of the Second Ward.
Organ solo, by Ethel Reynolds, of the
Twentieth Ward. Questions and answers
on the first principles of the Gospel, by
members of the Seventh Ward. Recita-
tion about Jesus, by Elsa Knott of the same
ward. Song by five little girls of the
Seventeenth Ward. Sister Amanda Done
told an interesting Thanksgiving story,
showing how happiness can be derived from
unselfishness. Another song by four little
girls of the Eleventh Ward. Recitation by
Wanda Lyon, of the Thirteenth Ward.
Song by a number of little girls of the Six-
teenth Ward.
	President Cobb said she was pleased with
the program and complimented the children
on their punctuality. Told them we would
not have Sister Morris with us very long,
as she had resigned her position as counselor
in the Stake Board, on account of ill health.
Felt to ask the Lord to bless her, said it
was by the blessing of the Lord that she
herself was able to be with us, as she had
been very sick.
	Sister L. G. Richards, of the General
Board, said she loved the children and was
pleased to be with them. Asked them to
say God bless Sister Morris, also Sister 
Cobb and Sister Felt, and prayed the Lord
would bless the children.
	Meeting closed by singing “Around the
throne of God.” Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
ELLA W. HYDE. Sec. 

		BINGHAM STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Bing-
ham Stake was held at Louisville, Febru-
ary 9, 1901, commencing at 10 a. m., Presi- 
dent E. J. Bennett presiding. Singing, “Up
awake ye  defenders of Zion.” Prayer was
offered by President Jas. E. Steele. Sing-
ing, “Arise, my soul, arise.”
	President E. J. Bennett expressed herself
as being very pleased with the attendance.
Said her mind was ever with the sisters of
this Stake, and she was constantly planning
for their welfare.
	The Relief Society of Grant ward was
reported by Sister Julia Dabel.
	President Jas. E. Steele said he found
in conversing with the Bishops of different
wards, that the Relief Society were doing a
good work and knew they were of great
importance in the wards, when they per-
form the duties assigned to them. Wished
to call the attention of the sisters to a lack
of being familiar with those who come
among us from other places. People
coming among us as strangers, feel that
they are one with us, and that we have an
interest in them. Urged the sisters to
work assiduously in this Relief Society
work and see that they get their credit for
it, for “by the books shall ye be judged.”
Spoke of the diligence of President Emma
Bennett who had traveled from Provo to
meet with the sisters in this conference,
because she had been called to do so.
	President Luna Jardine, of the Louis


ville Relief Society, reported the society as
being in a good condition. They were all
united and were laboring to relieve the
poor and to do all the duties assigned to
them.
	Counselor Elvira C. Steele read a greet-
ing from the General Board from the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Encouraged all to
press on in the work. Felt if we would
live, nearer to the Lord we would not
have so much sickness among us.
	President E. J. Bennett spoke of the
general building to be erected in Salt Lake
City. Hoped this Stake would be second
to none in donating.
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
Singing, “Come, O Thou King of Kings.”
Benediction by Bishop A. J. Stanger.
	Meeting opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Prayer by Bishop R. Jar-
dine. Singing, “O ye mountains high.”
	President Barrett, Willow Creek Relief
Society, reported that society in a prosper
ous condition. Sabel, Milo, Rigby, Iona,
Eagle Rock and Menan branches were re-
ported as being in a united and prosperous
condition.
	Counselor Elvira Steele felt that we had
been truly blessed in this conference. We
have many trials and obstacles to contend
with, but we must press forward and do
our duty and the Lord will bless us. Let
us attend our Relief Society meetings, if
we have to take our children with us, for
we should not waste these golden oppor-
tunities.
	Brother Benjamin Bennett, of the Eagle
Rock ward, said when we honor the priest-
hood, pay our tithing and keep the com-
mandments of God, we are happy; and
when we have sickness we can call down
the spirit of God upon us.
	President Bennett said she very much
missed Sister Emma C. Rushton, her first
counselor, who had moved to Oregon, “and
as she expects to make her home there, I
propose that we release her from her labors
in this Stake. She was honorably released
with a hearty vote of thanks. She has
labored unselfishly for the Relief Society
of this Stake. We should be as willing to
assist those in sickness and poverty as she
has been. Spoke of the duties of teachers.
Teachers should be the very best of women,
that they may have the spirit of God with
them. Go with your hearts full of love that
you may have the spirit of discernment.”
Exhorted the officers to hold their officers’
meetings. “May your members increase
and the blessings of God be upon you all.”
	President Bennett said as Sister Rushton
had been released she would like Sister E.
C. Steele as her first counselor. She was
accepted in the position by a unanimous
vote of the conference. The General Board
and Stake officers were then presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Elvira C. Steele was set apart as
first counselor to President Emma J. Ben-
nett.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Elder Thomas Lee.
			ELIZABETH S. BENNETT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column One]
R K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you  money.	
TRY US.

[Column 2]					
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.

		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.

		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW

		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WR[---] for any information desired.

		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.
===============================
	The Most Convenient Local Train Service
	in the State is given by the . . . . .

OREGON SHORT LINE
	RAILROAD
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . . .
__________________________________
Se that your tickets read via the
"SHORT LINE"
	And Get the best
__________________________________

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
__________________________________
S. W. Eccles,				D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.				G. P. & T. A.


[Column One]
CELEBRATIONS, MARCH 17, 1901.
ANNUAL DAY AT MESA.

The Relief Society of Mesa Ward, of
Maricopa Stake, held annual day exercises
on Monday, March 18,1901, at Relief
Society hall, sixty members present.
President Laura Rappleye presided. Sing-
ing, “Praise to the man. ’’Prayer by Stake
President B. R. Hakes. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O, God, for a prophet.” The
minutes of the last annual day were read.
Opening address by Stake President M.
A. Hakes; also read the poem, “Threads of
Thought.” Minutes of the first Relief
Society in 1842, read by Sister S. M.
Pomeroy. Song, Barbara Allen. Remarks
by Stake President E. R. Hakes, who spoke
of the importance of Relief Society work,
and of suffrage organization.
Refreshments were served and the after-
noon session began at 2 o’clock by singing
“O, ye mountains high.” Prayer by
Sarah M. Johnson. Singing, “Redeemer
of Israel.”
Program continued with an address of
welcome by Counselor Sarah M.. Johnson.
Recitation “Annie Laurie,” Dora Pomeroy.
Song, Dora Gilispie. Essay, “Procras-
tination,” Annie E. Fuller. Song, “Bring
Back My Loved one,” Mary Pomeroy.
Congregational singing, “O, my Father.”
Testimonies by Ida Johnson, Alice Rich-
eus, Mary Ann Horne, Melissa Babbitt.
and Etta Pomeroy. Song, May Fuller.
Adjourned by usual exercises, the fes-
tivities of the day being closed by a grand
ball in the evening, participated in by
old and young.
BELLE POMEROY, Sec. pro tem.

CANNONVIL[--] ANNIVERSARY.
Anniversary of the Relief Society of
Cannonville, Utah, held March 18, 1901.
As the 17th came on Sunday, President
Deba S. Dunning decided to hold the anni-
versary on Monday night, the 18th of
March, 1901, The meeting was opened by
singing “Come listen to a prophet’s voice.”
Prayer by Bishop James N. Anderson.
Singing, “All hail the glorious day.”
Sister Alvira A. Henderson made a few
remarks as follows; “I feel to rejoice in
the work of the Relief Society, where-
ever I have lived. I have lived here for
twenty-three years, and have helped in the
society here. Fifty-nine years ago the first
Relief Society was organized. The prophet
called on the sisters to relieve the poor.”
Recitation by Mrs. Harriet G. Clark,
“The Great Man at the Gate of Heaven.”
Then came a song by Mrs. Anna Davis and
Sister Sarah Henderson. Sister Margaret
E. Willis read a humorous composition on
early times in Utah. “A tribute to the
Sisters of the Relief Society, was read by
President Deba Dunning. A song, “The
End of the Way,” was sung by Sisters
Lydia M. Dunning and Letitia M. Spencer.
Song, “Kind Words,” by Myra Heward
and Janette Allen. Reading by Martha S.
Johnson, “Childish Wisdom.” Essay on
woman, by Laura J. Davis. Song, by

[Column Two]

Dora Fletcher and company, “The Narra-
gansett Bay.” Recitation, “The Gambler’s
Wife,” by Annie Dutton. Song, by Sisters
Elizabeth Fletcher and Harriet G. Clark,
“Gently Down the Stream of Time.” Reci-
tation, “The Beggar and His Day,” by
Lucy Henderson. Song, “Sweet Bye and
Bye,” by young girls. Recitation, “The
Soldiers Message,” by Cora Henderson.
A dialogue. “The Sewing Bee,” by Deba
S. Dunning, Harriet G. Clark, Lydia D.
Henderson, Laura Davis, Cora Henderson
Lucy Henderson, Frances Henderson and
Sarah Henderson. Singing, “Up, awake
ye defenders of Zion.” Dismissed by
Bishop’s Counselor Owen Clark.

EMILY B. SPENCER, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.                                                                                            

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol. 29		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1901. 		No. 24


CONTENTS.
In the Interest of Peace.........May Wright Sewall	103
Queen Victoria..............................................E. J.	103
Primary Sociable............................Ella W. Hyde	104
Lucy M. Hewlings..................................E. B. W.	105
A Tribute to Mrs. Avery.......................................	105
General R. S. Conference..................E. B. Wells	106
Anniversary Celebration..................Maria Cook	108
In Memoriam.......................................................	108
R. S. Reports........................................................	109
EDITORIAL—The Woman’s Exponent.............	106
	Birthday Celebration...................................	106
POETRY—Sister Bathsheba’s Birthday, L. G. R,	103
	An Ideal..............................L. M. Hewlings	105


[Column 1]
	SISTER BATHSHEBA’S SEVENTY-NINTH
				BIRTHDAY.

MAY THIRD, NINETEEN HUNDRED AND ONE.

	The Sister Workers in the Salt Lake
Temple presenting Sister Bathsheba with a
beautiful white lace fichu, designed to be
worn on the head.

The "crown" that we bring you, our mother and
	friend,
    Is only a token of true, tender love,
But adorned with it here, your dear presence will
	lend
    A cheerful reminder of glories above.

While the beautiful "soul crown" you've chosen to
	bear,
    Is Faith unalloyed with any disparity;
Pure hope is the “soul-robe” you modestly wear,
    And your chaste, royal mantle is unfailing
	Charity.

		“WHYS AND WHEREFORES.”

“In the beginning!” Well, it is not stated,
    Why everything in heaven and earth was made;
And yet we read that God or Gods created
    The earth and sea, the sunshine and the shade.

And as we daily learn, the plain truths witness,
    That God’s unfailing plans together run,
We find in all, through all eternal fitness,
    And come to see why some great things are
	done.

And yet with all we learn we know so little!
    Like school boys who of old their balls would
	wind,
We snap a thread sometimes, as pipe-stem brittle,
    It tangles, snarls, the end we cannot find.

Like “stupids” idly on the high stool perching,
    Or meekly bearing the old master’s rod;
The lesson comes, no mortal man by searching,
    Without the Spirit’s aid can find out God.

But by the light of heavenly inspiration, 
“The testimony of the Lord is sure,”
And making wise the simple brings salvation
    To all who seek sincerely to secure.

I deviate from points I wish to touch and there-
	fore.
    Will turn abruptly here and finish soon;
I’d like to try to tell the “why and wherefore,”
    These friends are gathered here this afternoon.

’Tis not to show off clothing rich and splendid.
For that the weather should have been more
fine.*
Nor vet that costly gifts would be extended,
    By this dear day’s fair guest, now Seventy-nine.

Beloved Bathsheba, our sister, mother,  
    ’Tis not for any worldly rank you claim;
But for a greater cause than any other—
    You follow Christ and magnify His name.

You do His works and have done strictly, purely,
    These seventy-nine long years, your whole life
	through;
And we your sincere friends are honored surely,
    In doing honor unto one like you.
-----
	*A shower of rain continued all day.

[Column 2]
Not only we who have this priceless pleasure,
    Of greeting you with greetings true and fond,
But all the Saints your name revere and treasure,
    Not here alone, but in the world beyond.

Joseph and Hyrum are anticipating,
    With thousands more, the happy, joyous scene,
When President George A. Smith now calmly
waiting,
Shall, welcome home his bride, his priestess,
	queen!

But, oh, “come down,” we’ll not go off in
	raptures;
    This world is good enough for you to stay, 
Long, long, ere that dear hand your spirit cap-
	tures—
    We want you here for many a glad birthday.
				Louisa L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
IN THE INTEREST OF PEACE.
	On May 15, 1899, a universal demon-
stration in behalf of peace was undertaken
by an international committee of women.
Through the indefatigable labors of this
committee numerous meetings were held in
eighteen different countries. The chairman
of the entire committee, Frau Margerethe
Lenore Selenka, Munich, reported the
results of this demonstration the peace con-
ference at its opening session at the Hague,
which took place on May 18th of that year.
	Notwithstanding the discouraging condi-
tions of the intervening years, and the many
pessimistic jeers at the Czar’s conference at
the Hague, it is certainly a matter for
grateful consideration that as a result of
that conference the permanent court of
international arbitration will convene at the
Hague on the second anniversary of the
conference. To celebrate this event, to
show that their zeal for peace, instead of
being cooled by wars and rumors of wars,
is only by these events excited to greater
ardor, the same international committee has
undertaken another demonstration by
women to be held on May 18th, 1901.
The demonstration will be simultaneous
with the opening of the court of interna-
tional arbitration,
	By the authority of the international
committee, including distinguished women
of Germany, England, Austria, Canada,
Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Hol-
land, Roumania, Hungary, Italy, Norway,
Russia, Servia, Sweden, Switzerland and
Japan, as the representatives on the com-
mittee in the United States, the under-
signed hereby urges women throughout the
United States to arrange for meetings, large
and small, in behalf of international peace
and arbitration.
	Wherever local councils exist, it is rec-
ommended that such organizations as they
include shoud take the initiative in making
arrangements for such meetings.
	In 1899, with less than a month’s notice,
there were held in the United States on
May 15th, in twenty-one different States,
163 meetings, at which there were reported
to be present 73,921 women. With that
precedent the same length of time should
enable the women of our country to double
the number of meetings to be held on May
18th, and to proportionately increase their
attendance.
	The taste of war which has been so bit-

[Column 2]
ter upon our lips should, and surely does,
increase the desire of women everywhere to
strengthen public sentiment for peace and
to increase public faith in the possibility of
ultimate arrival at a condition of universal
peace, where war will no longer be toler-
ated by enlightened nations more than per-
sonal combat is now tolerated by enlightened
individuals.
	Let all women to whose notice this call
comes feel the appeal to be an individual
one to aid in a local demonstration. 
	Where local councils do not exist
women’s clubs, temperance unions, educa-
tional associations and college leagues are
all appropriate agencies through which ar-
rangements may be made for local demon-
strations.
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
Representing the United States of America
	on the International Peace Committee
	of Women.


QUEEN VICTORIA.
	Queen Victoria was the only daughter, in
fact the only child of Edward, Duke of Kent,
Fourth son of King George the III. She
was born May 24, 1819. In her childhood
and through the early years of girlhood,
she was somewhat acquainted with the
trials of genteel poverty. At her father’s
death, her mother, the Duchess of Kent,
and her young daughter, Victoria, Eng-
land's future Queen, were entirely depen-
dent upon the bounty of her uncle for their
support, and for the education of the future
ruler of Great Britain. This support we are
told was not liberal, but rather grudgingly
bestowed, and our young princess was
therefore taught to practice economy in her
early life, which has doubtless proved of
great benefit to her since. It certainly
brought her into closer communion with
the greatest number of her subjects. Her
sympathy was extended very many times
by relieving the wants of the distressed.
	Those who had the privilege of her ac-
quaintance in her childhood say she was of
a very lovable disposition, kind to all, yet
firm in what she conceived to be right.
	Victoria was proclaimed Queen of Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, June 20,
1837, ascending the throne in her eigh-
teenth year. She had been brought up far
from the court by her widowed mother, al-
most isolated, shut off from royalty and
their customs. Although living in Ken-
sington palace, she was confined to the
rooms, grudgingly allowed them by her
uncle, not permitted the freedom of the
palace and its surroundings. The small in-
come allowed them compelled them to live
in retirement. She was almost unknown
to those even whose duty it was to announce
to the new queen her accession.
	The Archbishop of Canterbury and the
Lord Chamberlain arrived at five in the
morning at Kensington palace, where they
resided. All the gates were shut and it
was with some difficulty that they obtained
admittance to the presence of the princess,
awakened suddenly by their message. At
eleven o’clock the council met.


[Column 1]
	Mr. Charles Greville, secretary of the
Privy Council, has related with an amia-
bility unusual to him, this first entrance of
the Sovereign upon her public duties. The
king died at twenty minutes after two a.
m., June 20, 1837, and the young queen
met the council at Kensington palace at
eleven a. m. Never was anything like the
first impression she produced, or the chorus
of praise and admiration which was raised
about her manner and behavior, and cer-
tainly not without justice. It was very ex-
traordinary and something far beyond what
was looked for. Her extreme youth and
inexperience and the ignorance of the world
concerning her, naturally excited intense
curiosity to see how she would act on this
trying occasion; and there was a consider-
able assemblage at the palace, notwith-
standing the short notice that was given.
	The first thing to be done was to teach
her her lesson, which for this purpose,
Lord Melbourne had himself to learn. She
bowed to the Lords, took her seat and then
read her speech in a clear, distinct and
audible voice, and without any appearance
of fear or embarrasment.
	She was quite plainly dressed and in
mourning. After she had read her speech
and taken and signed the oath for the
security of the Church of Scotland, the
privy councilors were sworn—the two royal
dukes fi[-]st by themselves, and as these two
old men, her uncles, knelt before her, swear-
ing allegiance and kissing her hand, she
blushed to her eyes, as though she felt the
contrast between their civil and their
natural relations; this was the only sign of
emotion which she evinced. Her manner
to them was very gracious and engaging.
She kissed them both and rose from her
chair and moved toward the Duke of Sussex
who was fartherest from her, and too infirm
to reach her. She seemed rather bewil-
dered at the multitude who were sworn,
and who came one after another to kiss her
hand; but she did not speak to anybody,
nor did she make the slightest difference in
her manner to any individual of any rank,
station or party.
	The Duke of Wellington was heard to
exclaim, “If she had been my own daugh-
ter I could not have wished her to do
better.”
	Victoria was crowned Queen one year
after her accession, her coronation taking
place in June, 1838. Some-months after
troubles arose over the Dominion of
Canada and Her Majesty resigned. The
Duke of Wellington advised the young
queen to send for Sir Robert Peel, who
formed a new ministry, but it was a Tory
cabinet. Sir Robert Peel readily made his
selection. The queen although offering
no objections did not hesitate to say she
regretted the loss of the Whigs, but
yielded without hesitation to the consti-
tutional rule which required her to part
with them.
	But when Sir Robert interfered with her
household, requesting the dismissal of
Lady Normandy and the Duchess of
Sutherland, to whom the queen was at-
tached, she could not see why because
their husbands were politically opposed to
Sir Robert Peel, that her household should
be broken up, and she declined to dismiss
any of her ladies
	As she was unmarried it was her duty
according to custom to make the proposal
of marriage. Prince Albert, her cousin,
was visiting her at one of her palaces, (I

[Column 2]
think it was Windsor) when she naively
asked how he would like to live there al-
ways? He answered that he would like it
very much.
	When the queen opened Parliament on
the 16th of January, 1840, she announced
to the nation her intention to marry her
cousin, Prince Albert of Saxe Colburg, of
Gotha. They were married at the Chapel
Royal, St. James, February 10, 1840, and
all England rejoiced.
	This marriage was productive of much
good. Prince Albert proved a wise
Counselor to Her Majesty, and he endeared
himself to Her Majesty’s subjects, because
of his love and kindness to all the people
of the realm. Their union was blessed
with nine children, five daughters and four
sons.
	Queen Victoria was of a very sympathet-
ic nature. She fully sympathized with the
oppressed. After a most successful reign
of nearly sixty-four years, during which
Great Britain grew to be the mightest
nation in the whole world, the good Queen
Victoria, like other mortals of less renown,
passed to the great beyond. She died on
the Isle of Wight, January 22, 1901. When
the news of her demise was wired abroad,
it sent a thrill of sympathy and sorrow
throughout the entire world.
	The greatest woman sovereign that ever
wore a crown is no more numbered among
mortals was the universal feeling in all
civilized lands She has run her course,
finished her work on earth and left a rec-
ord behind her that in many respects has
never been surpassed by any of her sex.
	She reigned successfully over a people
which like the Americans stands for liber-
ty, progress and enlightenment “Queen
Victoria was certainly the greatest sover-
eign of our century,” wrote an English
editor. “She was the noblest, the kindest,
the most devoted of women who ever sat
on a throne. Woman, yes it is that holy
word, heavy with blessings to most born to
this planet, which comes to the lips from
hearts in which it has long been enshrined,
as we stand by the dead form of our be-
loved queen. She was always so womanly,
so tender and unselfish; so prompt with an
arrowy word sped by wise and informed
affection; so just in her silence; so truly
eloquent in her speech; so steadfast in her
trust in all that is best in men and women;
so ready to take us all, helpless children,
wounded soldiers, broken lives and bruised
hearts, triumphant servants and conquer-
ing geniuses, into the sunshine of an
appreciative and compassionate heart.”
E. J.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY SOCIABLE.
	The Primary officers’ held a special
meeting and social in the Templeton build-
ing, Saturday, March 20, 1901, in honor of
the retiring counselor, Sister Mary L. Mor-
ris, and also to appoint another counselor
in her place. President Camilla C. Cobb
presided at the meeting.
	After the opening exercises the roll of
officers was called and was responded to
with sentiments.
	President Cobb in her opening remarks
said this special occasion was tendered sis-
ter Morris to show our love and esteem for
her. She had always done whatever she
was called upon to do, and had been very
efficient in her work. She now wished to
resign her position as counselor in the

[Column 2]
Stake Board on account of ill health. It
would be necessary to appoint another
counselor, but among so many faithful
workers it was difficult to choose.
	Counselor L. A. Wells moved that Sister
Fanny Woolley be elected to fill the
vacancy. A vote was taken and Sister
Woolley was unanimously sustained.
	Sister Fanny Woolley expressed her
thanks for the honor conferred, and was
willing to respond to the call. Said she
felt her weakness but knew the Lord would
assist her to fill the position. Asked for
the faith and prayers of the sisters.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt it a privilege to
be with us on this occasion. Had known
Sister Morris for many years. She had al-
ways been interested in Primary work.
Her influence with the children reflected
great credit on her, knew she had the con-
fidence and prayers of us all.
	Sister Katherine Wells thought Sister
Mary L. Morris should be made honorary
aid in the Stake Board. The idea was
favorably received by all present.
	Sister Morris responded, saying: “While
my hand has its cunning and my brain its
power to act, I am going to work for the
kingdom of God.”
	A number of the officers expressed their
love for Sister Morris and regret at losing
her from the Primary, and also felt we had
been directed aright in selecting Sister
Fanny Woolley to fill the vacancy.
	Fanny Farnes favored us with the solo,
“O Happy Day.”
	Counselor L. A. Wells was pleased to
speak a few words in honor of Sister Mor-
ris. Referred to their labors together.
	Sister Amanda Done gave a recitation
entitled, “The Returning Summer.”
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt honored in
being with us. She loved all the officers
and had enjoyed her labors with them, but
was not able to continue her work in the
Primary. Spoke of her interest in the
Temple, and said that she desired to labor
there. Felt grateful at this expression of
love that had been shown her, and prayed
that God would bless us.
	A vote of thanks was then tendered Sis-
ter Morris for her past labors in the
Primary.
	Sister Rida Taylor gave a recitation en-
titled, “Trouble in the Amen Corner.”
	After singing, “Our Work and Our
Wealth,” and benediction by Sister Barrett,
the company adjourned to another room
where refreshments were served, and Presi-
dent Cobb, in a neat little speech, presented
Sister Morris with a handsome china berry
dish, as a token of love and appreciation
from her co-workers in the Primary cause.
	In response to a gift from the Primary
of a handsome berry dish and a very choice
bouquet of American beauty roses and car-
nations, Sister Morris said, “I value these
tokens of love more than gold and dia-
monds.”
			ELLA W. HYDE, Sec.


Minneapolis entertains the National Con-
vention the week beginning May 30. En-
tertainment will be furnished to all dele-
gates and speakers whose names are sent to
Dr. Cora Smith Eaton, Chairman Local
Arrangement Committee, 607 Masonic
Temple, Minneapolis, Minn., or to Mrs.
Ima Winchell Stacy, Chairman Entertain-
ment Committee, 1322 Vine Place, Minne-
apolis, Minn.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN IDEAL.
		L. M. HEWLINGS.
Here is my home! far, far away from dying,
	A mansion in the city of the blest,
For which long years my weary heart was sighing
	’Mid worldly ways of toil and cares opprest;
Where joys were brief, and oft-times brought re-
		pining,
	That made earth-life a dream of deep unrest.

In this fair home thro’ all its pleasant borders,
	No place is found for soul-destroying sin,
Sickness, disease and pain, those dread marauders
	Are feared no more! they cannot enter in.
No weary watchers wait for coming morrow,
	No night is here, and all is peace within.

No graves are here! no loving ties are severed,
	No mourners weep, all tears are wiped away,
No dreaded monarch, mighty king of terrors,
	O’er this fair clime can ever hold his sway.
No valley’s gloom, nor cypress wreath of sorrow, 	
	No emblems sad, of parting, or decay,

Thro’ the Red sea of trial holding ever,
	His loving hand I passed with tearful eyes,
Into the radiance of bliss forever,
	Into a glorious home of glad surprise,
Renewed, redeemed, torturing bonds all riven,
	A home of endless rest—sweet rest in heaven.


[Column 1]
		LUCY M. HEWLINGS.
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”

	Mrs. L. M. Hewlings, who died in this
city, April 23, 1901, was a very remarkable
woman; even in her early school days giving
great promise of talent in literary work and
was a charming companion and ardent
friend of her young associates.
	She was born in Petersham, Worcester
Co., Mass., Dec. 3, 1817, and was descended
from the old Puritan stock and possessed
those sterling qualities and distinctive
characteristics which have marked the pos-
terity of old New Englanders from their ar-
rival in America.
	Mrs. Hewlings, as she is best known
here, was married March 30, 1837, to Henry
H. Granger, of Hardwick, Mass., where
they lived afterwards and where their six
children were born. When the civil war
broke out her husband and two sons entered
the service as volunteers. Her husband re-
cruited the 10th Massachusetts Battery of
light artillery and was made captain.
Afterwards for gallant and meritorious con-
duct he was promoted Colonel on the recom-
mendation of Generals Grant, Hancock and
Miles. He served with great distinction
until October 27, 1864, when he was mortal-
ly wounded at the battle of Hatcher’s Run,
Va., and died in the hospital at City Point.
His body was taken to Hardwick, Mass,
where he was given a public funeral, and a
handsome monument has been erected to
his memory. The record of the Granger
family, which is the same from which Sarah
M. Kimball comes, says, “when Col.
Granger was wounded he asked his men to
gather around him that he might take them
by the hand and bid them good-bye and to
look out for the Battery after he was gone,
and to get Lieut. Smith, who had been
wounded, off the field if possible.”
	Henry Corydon the eldest son enlisted in
Company B. 11th Massachusetts Volunteers,
in 1861, and was made soon after first
Lieutenant. He was killed at the battle of
Williamsburg, Va., and buried on the field,
but his remains were afterwards taken to the
National cemetery at Yorktown. His
Colonel, Bromwell Granger, speaks highly
of his courage and said he once procured his
honorable discharge on account of his youth
and delicate health, fearing he could not en-
dure the hardships, but the boy refused to

[Column 2]
accept it and said when he wanted a dis-
charge he would ask for it. His death on
the battlefield occurred May 5, 1862.
	Another son, Louis Edwin, was also in
the Civil war at the same time, and was al-
so made Lieutenant Colonel. He died in
New York City in 1899, and is buried at
Hardwick beside his father. Col. L. E.
Granger came to Utah in 1869, and while
here married Miriam Decker, daughter of
Charles and Vilate Young Decker, and
granddaughter to President Brigham Young.
His two boys, offspring of that marriage,
are living here, and were with their grand-
mother, Mrs. Hewlings, during the time of
her recent illness and death.
	Mrs. Hewlings children were all dead.
Her eldest daughter died soon after the war,
her youngest son died at six years of age,
during the war, another son had died when
a babe and one daughter remained who
came to Utah in 1872 and taught school
with Miss Mary E. Cook in the Social Hall.
She will be remembered by many of those
teachers, pupils and friends associated with
Miss Cook in those days. She married and
lived in the East afterwards, where she
died July 29, 1880, leaving two boys.
	Sometime after the war, in the early
seventies, the widow of Col. Granger mar-
ried the Rev. George R. Hewlings, an
English minister, a man of fine family, his
father a member of the British Parliament,
who had been educated at Cambridge
University, England, and graduated first in
law, L. L. D., afterwards choosing the
ministry for which he prepared himself,
thinking to go out to India, but instead
settled first in Lincolnshire and subsequent-
ly in Yorkshire, his wife having died and
his children married he came to America,
and shortly after married Mrs. Lucy M.
Granger and they came to Utah, living in
Salt Lake City for about five or six years.
	Mrs. Hewlings was an ardent temper-
ance woman and for some years during her
widowhood traveled and lectured on tem-
perance and upon other subjects; she had
an excellent voice and fine presence, and
was well-informed on the topic of the
times; her memory was quite remarkable
and she was a brilliant conversationalist. All
her life she had written for newspapers and
magizines, both in prose and verse.
	She had been a great Bible student and
was devotional and intensely religious in
her nature. She was a great admirer of
Sister Eliza R. Snow and of Sister Sarah M.
Kimball with whom she became well ac-
quainted during her sojourn here in the
seventies, and she knew intimately in the
East, Lucy Stone, Mary A. Livermore,
Frances Willard, also Julia Ward Howe
and many others of the women whose
names are familiar to the public. Mrs.
Hewlings was a woman of very strong
character, and one who had seen much of
the world and kept posted on the vital sub-
jects of the times in which she lived.
	Mrs. Hewlings was 83 years, four months
and twenty days old at the time of
her demise. She retained all her faculties
to the very last, receiving letters from her
friends in the East and dictating to those
about her what to reply until the last day
or two before her departure from this life.

	“So—Through storms and darkness,
		Through great waters deep,
	Through the cloud whose black embraces,
		Hidden sunbeams keep:
	So He brings His chosen there,
	To the Haven safe and fair!

[Column 3]
		“So—Through fierce winds blowing,
		Through rough desert ways,
	Through long nights whose dreary darkness,
		Reaches o’er the days:
	So, He brings them Home at last,
	Safe from every stormy blast!”
							E. B. W.


A TRIBUTE TO MRS. AVERY.
	A tribute to Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery, who has announced her re-
tirement at the coming National Suffrage
Convention from the corresponding secre-
taryship, is receiving many expressions of
affection and good-will. Mrs. E. M. Bab-
cock writes of her:
	Nothing could more forcibly express the
esteem in which she is held than the words
of one who has been actively engaged with
her in suffrage work for many years: “She
is the loveliest character that I ever
knew.”
	Mrs. Avery is not only a suffragist, but a 
philanthropist, humanitarian and reformer,
in the full sense of these words; in fact she
is everything that tends to make the world
better. She possesses rare executive abili-
ty, and in her enthusiasm for humanity she
has used both her abilities and private for-
tune most liberally. . . . Mrs. Avery was
corresponding secretary of the committee of
arrangements for the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, the National and
International Council of Women and 
National Suffrage Association, all of which
held such successful meetings in Chicago
during the World’s Fair. She was also
corresponding secretary of the National
Council of Women held in Washington in
1895. Mrs. Avery’s management of the
International Council of Women, held in 
Washington in 1888, under the auspices of 
the National Suffrage Association, was the 
crowning effort of her executive genius. 
There were representatives from fifty-three
different national organizations from seven
distinct nations. The expenses of this
meeting made a grand total of $14,000, the
financial risk being assumed by Miss
Anthony and Mrs. Avery. 
	Mrs. Avery has for several years wished
to retire from the secretaryship, and has re-
tained it only through Miss Anthony’s
persuasions. She has been secretary first
in the National and later in the National 
American W. S. A for twenty-one years.
						—Ex.


ABOUT 200 delegates took part in the
annual meeting lately held in Brooklyn,
N. Y., of the General Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution. Miss Ada-
line W. Sterling presided. The Society’s
work in behalf of the Valley Forge enter-
prise has been active, and all the State
auxiliaries have contributed appreciable
amounts, Massachusetts leading off with
$1,700. One new undertaking proposed
is a “fund” for young women in procuring
a college education. From the fund $300
will be advanced without interest, until it
can be repaid. Applicants must be eligable
for membership in the society. A resolu-
tion offered by Mrs. John L. McNeill of
Colorado protests against the use of the
national flag for commercial and decorative
purposes. A committee has been appointed
to co-oporate with a society organized to
prevent it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, at
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1901.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
VOLUME TWENTY-NINE.
	This number of the paper closes volume
twenty-nine of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
and in June the thirtieth volume will com-
mence. It is certainly a matter of con-
gratulation for the women of Utah and the
surrounding country in this intermountain
region that this woman’s paper has been
kept alive so much longer than any other
woman's paper in the west that was
started about the same time, and indeed
several woman’s papers that have been es-
tablished since, have only continued for a
few years and have had to be given up for
lack of patronage.
	Our sisters and patrons should appre-
ciate these facts, and that it takes not only
perseverance but money to carry on any
enterprise of this kind, and now when it
has been kept alive so many years through
such very extraordinary efforts, surely
those who feel an interest in woman’s ad-
vancement will try to sustain it at least
until it is through the coming year, which
will make three decades. 
	The agents of the EXPONENT and those
interested in the work of the women of the
Church, and in the higher education and
elevation of women along all the many
lines that tend to the uplifting of the
human race, should feel it a privilege to
help maintain a paper that has done and is
doing  what the EXPONENT has for the
benefit of womankind.
	Looking back over the volumes of our
little paper on file one finds how largely it
has entered into every work and enterprise
undertaken by women, not only here at
home, the centre of women’s organizations
of the Church, but it has reached out all
over the civilized World, and sought to
bring before its readers the best work be-
ing done by women the world over.
	We do not any of us live alone to our-
selves, but every human being owes
something to others, and the example of
the women of Zion is and should be one
worthy of imitation, and it is by contact
and association through women’s great
organizations that much good is being ac-
complished; and much of this is done by
correspondence and literary efforts made
by such women as have the ability and
disposition to write, and to communicate
by means of the pen, the ideas and senti-
ments that help to enlighten the masses of
the people.
	Any sister in the Church who will take

[Column 2]
the time and the pains to look over a few
numbers of the EXPONENT will find so
much of interest that has found place in
its columns, that she would really feel it
worth double the price of the subscription.
As a reference to what women have done
here and elsewhere it is indeed a reposi-
tory, and President Brigham Young was
right when he said he wanted the women
to take the EXPONENT and keep it and
have it bound, for it would be a part of
Church history. It is a record of the
women of Zion, their work and activities
though comparatively few ever think of it
in that connection, and like many other
things the EXPONENT is not estimated at
its real value, because its outward appear-
ance is very plain and unattractive.
	It is possible for the women of Zion to
patronize it so largely that it could be
made much more desirable and a greater
interest taken by those who write for it to
enhance its value so that it may be a
blessing to every home and household in
Zion. The Saints do not have too much
good reading though the remark is often
made, there is not time to read the papers
of the day; yet it is a fact that many books
that are not beneficial are bought not only
in the city, but in the small country towns.
The first investment in the way of reading
matter should be home production, and if
it is not up to the highest standard of ex-
cellence by renewed efforts strive to help it
along. Certainly this people have the best
material there is for stories, verses, essays
and especially history there is no lack of
variety of which to write; nature has been
bountiful in its productions here. The
lakes, the mountains, the mines are all
rich in subjects for the active energies of
the student and specimens of wild flowers
are a treasure to the botanist and even bird
life here has been made a study by the
celebrated ornithologist, Olive Thorne
Miller. Those who dwell in this mountain
region, among the wild and picturesque
scenery, partaking of its beauty and grand-
eur, have a wide range for their ambition
if they but take into consideration what
lies all about them.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
	The seventy-ninth birthday anniversary
of our revered and honored Mother in Israel,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was celebrated
at the handsome residence of Mrs. Philo T.
Farnsworth, in this city, May 3, 1901.
	The beautiful parlors and library were
artistically decorated with flowers, flags and
historic pictures, the parlor and library in
sweet peas, the dining room in red and
white roses and carnations. The music
was by some of the best talent in the city,
Prof. Joseph Anderson and Prof. A. C.
Lund, and the selections were from the
old masters. It was a great addition to the
delightful entertainment.
	Sister Smith was dressed in white and
looked the veritable “Queen of hearts and
homes,” lovable and motherly and alto-
gether charming. Those who received with
her were Mrs. Zina D. H Young, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mr.
and Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth, Mr. and Mrs.
George H. Horne, Mrs. B. S. Merrill and
Mrs D. R. Allen. Several beautiful young
women assisted in the dining room and a
few lovely little girls acted as ushers,
among them some of Sister Farnsworth’s
daughters.

[Column 2]
	“A Tribute to Aunt Bathsheba,” by the
hostess, Mrs. Farnsworth, was given be-
fore the program proper was rendered, re-
marks by Bishop Winder and Apostle Brig-
ham Young, and Mrs. L. L. G. Richards read
an original poem. Mrs. Thomas Hull sang,
“The End of the Way,” in a delightfully
Scotch way.
	The toast master was Judge William H.
King, late Representative to Congress,
whose eloquence is proverbial, and who
carried off fresh honors in this rather diffi-
cult role.
	Prayer by Bishop O. F. Whitney and the
first response to a toast was given by
President Lorenzo Snow, “George A. and
Aunt Bathsheba.” ‘Our Family,” John
Henry Smith. “The Old Home,” Clarissa
Smith Williams. “Noted Virginians,”
Bishop Whitney. “The Prophet.” Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith. “Father’s First
Counselor,” Brigham Young. “When Old
Friends Meet,” (poem) by Mrs. E. B.
Wells. “Sister Bathsheba in the Relief
Society,” by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, was
given by Sister Zina Y. Card, as her mother
had retired from the room. “Sister Bath-
sheba at the Temple,” Mrs. A. W. McCune.
“Childhood Reminiscences,” by Mrs.
Bathsheba S. Merrill.” “Grandfather and
Grandmother,” Mrs. D. R. Allen. “Great-
Granddaughter,” Mary S. Horne. “Aunt
Bathsheba,” Julina L. Smith. “Aunt
Bathsheba in the Ward.” Bishop Beatie.
The Bishop having left his wife responded
for him.
	The exercises were so varied by the
toast master’s original introductions that
the program could not possible seem
to have any sameness. A list of the names
of the guests is too long for our little paper
but suffice to say, it could not include all
Sister Smith’s friends and admirers, for
they fill these valleys of the mountains and
extend far away from here into other lands
and climes.
	Congratulations and good wishes were
simply showered upon the honored guest of
the day, her praises were said and sung and
the banquet was in every way desirable,
and the tables so arranged as to give all an
opportunity to see and hear. There seemed
nothing lacking in the management
of the entire affair, which owed
its success to the tact and artistic
skill of the two ladies who gave the party,
Mrs. Farnsworth and Mrs. Alice M.
Horne, to whom all the guests feel indebt-
ed for the great pleasure and honor of par-
ticipating in doing honor to one in every
way so worthy of our love and esteem as
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith.


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held on Monday, April 8, 1901,
in the Assembly Hall in this city, meeting
commencing at 2 p. m., Counselor Jane S.
Richards presiding. Singing, “Come, let
us anew,” etc. Prayer by Elder Theo-
dore Curtis. Singing, “Let us pray,
gladly pray.” Minutes of October confer-
ence read by the secretary and approved.
	Counselor Elizabeth Moody reported St.
Joseph Stake. The president and counsel-
ors had visited every society in the Stake
except one, and felt all were trying to
serve the Lord. Rejoiced in the work
being done by the women of Zion.
	Sister Black represented Wayne Stake. 
The sisters were doing a great deal in seri-


[Column 1]
culture, they had put out thousands of
mulberry trees, and were not behind in any
of the duties required of the Relief Society.
	Sister Harriet M. Brown, a member of
the General Board, gave a good account of
the Relief Society in Kanab Stake. The
sisters were zealous and faithful in good
works.
	Counselor Angeline Hinckley spoke en-
couragingly of the society in Millard Stake.
They were progressing nicely and had dur-
ing last year had many young mothers
added to the list of members, and felt it
would be an incentive to others to mention
the fact in the conference.
	President Elizabeth Delong, of Pan-
guitch Stake, said they labored under the
disadvantage of being very much scattered,
some places being very remote, but they
visited all as often as possible. They had
some poor to care for, and were anxious to
perform every duty, doing as well as cir-
cumstances would permit.
	President Annie U. Larson, of Emery
Stake, stated they had visited all the settle-
ments and found the sisters alive to their
duties and responsibilities, tried to en-
courage them in saving grain and in rais-
ing silk. There were some sisters had
raised eighty pounds of cocoons. “We
have six halls of our own to meet in in
Emery County.”
	President Jane S. Richards said: “My
dear sisters, I am very much pleased to see
so many here, it is good enough for me to
sit and enjoy it, though we all feel sorry
that our president, Sister Zina, is not her
with us, but you must not think that you
will not have her here, she sends her love
and blessing and good wishes. There is a
great work to be done and we must be
alive and energetic in trying to do our part
and be thankful to the Lord that we live in
this day, and pray that he will bless our
efforts, and help us to do much more in the
future than we have ever done in the past.
It will do Sister Zina so much good to
know that we are doing all we are capable
of to assist her, by kind words and charity.
If any one does a kind act let us appreciate
it, and we must be forgiving and long-
suffering and follow the example of our
Savior, and feel honored that we can do the
work He did. How much mercy He ex-
tended to others. We, too, must be merci-
ful, visit the sick. I realize how good it is
to be visited in sickness,” Sister Richards
related an experience of this kind to illus-
trate her remarks. “When the Prophet
Joseph was living we did not think much
of fine clothes but put a clean apron on our
children and took them to meeting with us.
Now we must have something grand to
take them in. Then it was different and
we were happy, but times have changed. I do
not want to weary you with a long speech.
There are many to hear from. I am glad
we have so many present, I know Sister
Zina will rejoice when she hears of this
gathering. May the Lord bless us all.”
	President B. W. S[-]ith said, “Sisters,
we want to obey counsel and be self-sustain-
ing and appreciate every good thing. We
must exert ourselves to sustain home indus
tries, especially the silk and be honest and
punctual and not neglect our Temple work,
that is one of the obligations we should
keep in mind, go there whenever we can.
I love to see the sisters come to the Temple.
And we want to build a house, we have
the ground given to us and we must exert
ourselves to get the means to build and we

[Column 2]
shall be blest and accomplish it if we are
humble and do right, and I bless you, my
sisters, with all the authority I have, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.”
	President M. Isabella Horne, was glad to
see so many present. Said, “We know we
are doing a great and grand work, to look
after the poor and needy; and we shall
have a reward. This is a grand and
glorious dispensation. What has there
ever been like it? Think of the Lord Him-
self appearing to Joseph Smith, a boy, and
His Son with Him; and saying to Joseph
“This is my beloved Son, hear ye Him!”
And during all his persecutions and trial she
was sustained by an Almighty power.
How many times his enemies sought his
life in various ways, but were not permitted
to take it, until he delivered himself up.
But the Gospel must be preached to all
nations and gather in the honest in heart,
and we are doing our part in caring for the
poor, the needy, the afflicted and distressed;
we must be diligent in our work and seek
at all times the spirit of the Lord and pray
always.”
	Counselor Marilla Daniels reported Utah
Stake. She told us they had been building
two meeting houses, and granaries and col-
lecting grain and trying to fulfill all their
duties and keep pace with the work and
not fall behind in the race.
	President Lucy S. Cardon, Cache Stake,
said, “We are striving to do right and
keep the commandments of the Lord, fol-
low the counsel we receive and be indus-
trious in all the pursuits of life. We have 
fifteen granaries in our Stake and quite a
large amount of grain.
	President Lillie C. Page, of Nebo Stake,
reported that very new Stake scarcely two
months old, organized February 14, 1901
President Jane S. Richards attended the
meeting when the officers were called to
preside and gave instructions. Sister Page
manifested a desire to fulfill all the respon-
sibilities of her office, they try to keep up
with the good work of the society.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs, of Alpine
Stake, stated that their Stake too was very 
young, not yet three months since it was
organized. The president and counselors
intended to visit through the settlements in
the near future, they were trying to instil
into the minds of the sisters the necessity
of wisdom in all things.
	Sister Emily S. Richards spoke favorably
of the Woman’s Building thought it would
not be hard for three great organizations to
put up a handsome structure that would be
characteristic of women. It should be a
pleasure to do this that in years to come
our children would be proud to look upon
it and say it had been built by their moth-
ers and grandmothers.
	Sister Alice M. Horne in her remarks
said, “I see here more fine women than I
have ever seen before at any one time, and
hope to see our young mothers come for-
ward and join in the work.” She gave out
the notice of the Mother’s Congress which
would convene in the Assembly Hall the
following day and invited all to attend.
	Sister Julina L. Smith said Sister Rich-
ards said Ogden has larger congregations at
conferences than we have here. She felt
we ought to awaken the people to attend.
She then reported for the committee that
had been appointed to call upon the First
Presidency, and spoke of the land so gener-
ously donated to the sisters, knew all
would feel like helping. Referred to the

[Column 3]
first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, only nineteen members, and now
it numbered several thousands. Spoke
tenderly of Aunt Zina and how we missed
her presence, and also of President Cannon
having gone away to regain his health, it
would be a great sorrow if he should not
recover, hoped he would be raised up and
return home.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said a few
words, though reluctantly, but stated if she
spoke it must be of the things uppermost in
her mind. She felt that we needed a build-
ing of our own, and we should labor untir-
ingly to accomplish it. Said we sisters
had helped to build every Temple and
every meeting house in Zion, no one
grumbles about tithing, and she thought
the sisters should be willing and glad to
give to the building and believed they
would be richer at home if they would give
freely.
	Meeting adjourned till 7 p. m. Congre-
gation standing sang the Doxology. Bene-
diction by President Susan Grant.
	Evening session, President Jane S. Rich-
ards presiding. Singing, “Come, come ye
Saints.” Prayer by Counselor Annie T.
Hyde, of the Salt Lake Stake. Singing,
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Sister E. J. Stevenson, of the General
Board addressed the meeting upon the
Word of Wisdom; the proper training of
the children of Zion; faith in the ordinances
of the Gospel and administration for the
healing of the sick instead of employing so
many physicians; kindness, charity and
forgiving each other. Thought we should
be exemplary in all things and by no
means go into debt, refrain from everything
that is not right. Spoke feelingly of home
duties and obligations and improving the
talents given us and adding to them.
	President Wilhelmina M. Erickson, of
North Sanpete Stake, said Sanpete Stake
had been recently divided and she had been
called to preside in the northwest of the
county. The Relief Society had not yet
held a conference, but we know that the
sisters are always willing to do what is
required. “We shall do all that lays in our
power for the General Building and every
call made, and I shall try to do my duty
always, I feel that I need instruction.”
	President Alvira L. Cox, South Sanpete
Stake, said she had not yet visited around
since the division of the Stake had been
made, but had sent instructions to each
branch. The sisters will be able to respond
to the call made for the Woman’s Building,
and when we have a place of our own we
shall not be subject to so much inconven-
ence in holding our meetings and con-
ferences.
	Counselor Hildah H. Larson spoke for
Jordan Stake. The president and counselors
had visited all the branches and found them
in a good condition. There were four
Relief Society halls and ten granaries
owned by the sisters. Sister Larson made
an excellent report. She had watched the
efforts of the women of Zion in various
directions and rejoiced in the progress they
were making.
	President Rebecca Standring said: “I
often think of the labors of the Relief Soci-
ety in Zion to feed the hungry and clothe
the destitute. And the teachers—none can
labor in that cause more faithfully than the
teachers. They are ministering angels of
mercy to publish salvation. The progress
now being made by our sisters rejoices my


(Column 1)
heart and to have a house of our own. Con-
sider what the Savior thought of the
widow’s mite and do not hesitate to give.
If the means is small, "where there's a will
there's a way," and we should persevere and
feel that when we come to Salt Lake there's
a building of our own to come to, that
should stimulate us to new energy. I am
thankful that we are to wait till we get
$20,000 before we commence building. I
have confidence our sisters will do their
best." The speaker referred to the meet-
ing house being built in Alpine Stake,
which the sisters were helping with. They
had helped to build the Provo Tabernacle
and spoke of the many calls and obligations,
but all a part of the grand work. Her re-
marks were excellent.
	President Jane S. Richards felt the re-
marks were just what was needed, and was
glad we had the land to build a house on,
and if we ever get a house the departed
will visit us, Sister Eliza and Brother
Brigham Young and others. What a satis-
faction when we go to the brethren and get
a word of comfort. We have labored long
and have done for all in need, both saint
and sinner, rich and poor and every living
thing; and angels will visit us, and what a
consolation it will be to have a building for
the mothers of Israel, and then after the
storms and so on, we could perhaps have a 
conference in midsummer, about the middle
of June. We have tried two or three times
and have not yet succeeded," Sister Rich-
ards made further explanations in reference
to the proposed conference in June of this
year.
	Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear Lake Stake,
said they had very few poor, but when-
ever there is a case of sickness and distress
all are ready to respond and do all in their
power to alleviate sorrow or suffering. Our
sisters are liberal in giving. We have
about one hundred dollars to appropriate to
the Woman's Building. There were ques-
tions by Sister Hart, which were satisfac-
torily answered by President Richards.
	President B. W. Smith spoke a few
words about the house, explained the ar-
rangement of the basement, kitchens
pantries, dining rooms or banqueting hall
cooking utensils, etc. She thought every
woman who could should give a dollar, the
sisters would never feel it. Sister Smith
wanted the house to be completed by her
birthday in May 1902, so we could cele-
brate her 80th anniversary there.
	President Susan Grant spoke upon union
and love and diligence in attending meet-
ings and in all things, and seeking for the
Holy Spirit, bore a good testimony of
Joseph the Prophet.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, ex-
plained concerning the Woman's Building,
the ten cent fund and the annual dues and
some other practical matters, and spoke of
the magnitude of the Relief Society, its
marvelous growth and called it the best
woman's organization in the world.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the Building
Fund treasurer, bore her testimony and
made some excellent remarks, said she ap-
preciated and enjoyed the work of the
Relief Society.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt rejoiced in the
grand work we were doing, appreciated its
benefits to the world. Said it had been one
of our ambitions to build this house now
talked of, thought it would not take long
money would be sure to come in, we could
soon get what we needed. "Sister Smith

(Column 2)
wants the house finished next year so we
can celebrate her birthday there, and it will
be sixty years since the Relief Society was
organized. "I believe it can be done if we
will all have faith and persevere in our 
efforts.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, told us of the South and that the
early fruit had all been killed for this year.
Made powerful remarks in regard to teach-
ing our children and the consequences of
neglecting their moral and spiritual educa-
tion, we have good institutions for our chil-
dren.
	President Richards adjourned the confer-
ence until some time in June, notice to be
given later. Singing, "The Spirit of God."
Benediction by Sister E. B. Wells.
		E. B. Wells, General Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.										107


108 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION,

	On the 18th of March, at2 p. m., the peo-
ple of Syracuse met in the ward meeting
house and held their annual meeting in 
commemoration of the first Relief Society
organized, President M. A. Walker presiding.
The choir sang the opening hymn. After
invocation by Brother Joseph Bodily, Presi-
dent M. A. Walker made appropriate re-
marks concerning Relief Society work. The
program was very interesting, consisting
of speeches, songs, recitations and readings. 
	The singing was inspiring and sweet. 
Bishop Cook spoke appropriately on the
work of the Relief Society. 
	After the program the time was occupied
by brethren and sisters who desired to speak,
and the meeting was characterized through-
out by that congenial and blessed spirit that
draws souls together in a feeling of oneness
and love.
	One of our number, however, was greatly
missed, our aged and beloved sister, Nancy
S. Kerr, who departed this life on Saturday,
March 16, at the age of eighty-eight years.
The funeral was held here on Sunday 
afternoon, and on Monday the 18th she was
taken to Ogden and services were held in
the Third Ward meeting house, she having
resided in that ward until she moved with
her daughter and family to Syracuse three
years ago. She was buried by the side of
her husband in the Ogden cemetery. Sister
Kerr was personally acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and was present when
the first Relief Society was organized. She
has been a faithful member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and has by
her affectionate pleasant nature endeared
herself to all who knew her.
				MARIA COOK, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
PASSED TO THE GREAT BEYOND.

Mrs. Annie Barlow, the wife of Patriarch Israel
Barlow of Wood’s Cross, died April 26, 1901, of
jaundice and liver trouble, after an illness of many
weeks. She was born in England August 8, 1843,
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, while in her teens, and came to
the valley of the mountains, shortly after, crossing
the plains in wagons with ox teams, and passed
through manv trials of early pioneer life.
She became acquainted with Israel Barlow, and
they were married on April 26,1863. She
therefore died on the anniversary of her thirty-
eighth wedding day.
She was a loving and faithful wife and devoted
mother and leaves a husband and ten children,
four sons and six daughters to mourn her departure,
all of whom are married but one daughter and two
sons, one son being on amission at the time of her
death.

[Column 2]
The sisters of the Relief Society feel it a great
loss, for she was an honest, energetic, faithful
president and it will be hard to fill her place.
The funeral services were held at the West Ward
meeting house, Monday, April 29, 1901. The
house was beautifully decorated in white with
potted flovers fora background. The floral tributes
were many and beautiful.
The speakers were Brothers C. R. Jones, J.
Argyle, Sr., Patriarchs Edward Powel and Tole-
man, President Hyrum Grant and Bishop L. M.
Grant. They all spoke highly of our beloved sister
and president and encouraged her children to fol-
low in her footsteps, be faithful and true to their
covenants,and they would meet their mother again.
JOSEPHINE C. WOOD, Sec.

A PIONEER WOMAN.
Sister Ann Van Wagoner Nebeker was born in
Vompton, New Jersey, March 28, 1817. She
lived in Vompton twenty years, then moved to
Bergen, N. J., where she was married to John
Havens and had three children. While there she
was converted to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and was baptized March 13,
1844. In 1845 she went to Nauvoo and shortly
after her husband died.
In 1840 she left Bergen for Utah. On the way
she was married to Henry Nebeker and came the
remainder of the journey with him, arriving in
Salt Lake City in the autumn of 1847. In 1857
they moved to Payson, where she has lived most
of the time.
Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called
from our midst our dear sister, Ann Van Wagoner
Nebeker, and
Whereas, We the members of the Relief Soci-
ety have been called to mourn the loss of a faith-
ful member, a patient, loving and self-sacrificing 
woman, a firm friend and a true Latter-day Saint,
therefore be it,
Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sym
pathy to the bereaved family who mourn her loss.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, one published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and one placed on the record
of the Relief Society.
ELIZA ALISPACH, Sec.

ANNIE CHRISTINA ZUNDEL. 
Sister Annie Christina Zundel was born July 31,
1811, at Reibach, Oberent, Denburg, Hessen,
Darmstadt, Germany. She was the daughter of
John and Margaret Latenshlager. She came to
America about the year 1830, located in Pennsyl.
vania, was married to John Zundel in 1831, em-
braced the Gospel in the year 1840, and was bap-
tized in Nauvoo. She also received her endow-
ments there, she. with her husband being so
privileged, to be one of the first eight couples
chosen to have their endowments in the Nauvoo
Temple.
She was a benevolent woman who loved to give
to those that were in need. She left Nauvoo with
the Saints at the time of the expulsion. She
traveled with the Saints and shared in their perse-
cutions. Soon after leaving Nauvoo her health
failed. During her travels she laid four of her
young children to rest, some of them by the road-
side. In 1850 she and her husband gave their
property, consisting of one wagon, two yoke of
cattle and some monev for the emigration, and
they stayed and worked for another team.
She came to Utah in 1852, her husband was sick
the entire journey. They came to Salt Lake City
in September and he passed behind the veil in
November, leaving her with a family of eight
children, the eldest being eighteen years of age
and the youngest six months.
She came to Payson at the time of the move in
1858, where she has lived since. She always loved
to converse on the principles of the Gospel. She
was ever true and faithful to the gospel of our
Lord and Savior, and is now gone to rest. She
passed away on the 7th of February, 1901, being
89 years, 6 months and 7 days old.

RESOLUTION OF RESPECT.

Resolved, That we cherish her memory and
that a copy of these resolutions be placed on our
record and one sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication, also one sent to the family.

“Methinks I see the book opened,
And an angel the pages turn o’er,
Till he comes to her name, when he pauses—
“Sainted woman thou’lt sorrow no more.
Thy life has been weighed in the balance,
Which tipped at the mark pure gold,
By thy name is recorded ‘most worthy,’
Enter into the joys of the Lord.”

ELIZA ALISPACH, Sec.


[Column 1]
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His infinite
love and mercy to call home our beloved sister,
Rosina Crook, who was born 1847, in Oberbruder,
Wurtenberg, Germany. She joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1893,
and emigrated to Utah in 1896. She was married
to Joseph Crook, who died fifteen months later.
She had been ill ever since and suffered very
patiently till death released her, the 17th of Janu-
ary, 1901. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint. Her friends will miss her, still
to know that her sufferings are passed, became a
comfort to those who loved her, and that she is
now enjoying sweet rest.
				ANNIE JONES,
				ROSINE BOKI,
				ELIZABETH THURBER.
MARIA TAYLOR MCRAE.
	Maria Taylor McRae, daughter of Geo. E. and
Annie Wicks Taylor, born January 17, 1845, at
Spilsby, Lincolnshire, England, died April 19,
1901, with catarrh of the bowels, a patient suffer-
er for nearly four years.
	She first heard the Gospel as taught by the
Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, when four years old and eagerly awaited
the arrival of her eighth birthday to be baptized.
She, in company with her mother and Sister
Martha Little, now president of the Relief Society
in Haden, Idaho, emigrated to America in 1854,
remained in St. Louis a year and then walked
most of the way to Salt Lake City without a mur-
mur, only too glad to get to Zion.
	In 1862 she married Joseph McRae, son of the
late Bishop Alex McRae, and their life since has
been devoted to pioneer work. They lived in Salt
Lake City through the hard times, then went to
Charleston, Wasatch Co., where after five years
struggle in a new country, and they were prosper-
ing financially and had established a good home,
when the call came from President Brigham
Young to prepare for a mission to the South.
	Taking their lives in their hands and trusting in
God, they went to an unexplored wilderness where
the Indian reigned supreme. No pen can de-
scribe the hardships encountered or trials endured.
The company under the leadership of D. W. Jones
arrived in the Salt River valley in the spring of
1877, where they took out the first canal and
planted trees. In the fall the company divided
part of them (in whose company was Sister McRae
with Brother P. C. Merrill as leader) wended their
way to San Pedro valley, stopping on the way for
a few days at Tuscon. While there they heard
of the death of President Brigham Young. Ar-
riving at San Pedro they built a fort for protec-
tion from the savages, but as Sister McRae often
said they were not sent there to be murdered by
Indians.
	During the rainy season sickness set in until
one was scarcely able to wait on another. Apostle
Erastus Snow and party arrived in October and
found them in this condition. Apostle Snow as he
preached to a congregation mostly in beds, shed
tears and blessed the people and said the land
would yet be peopled with Saints from one end of
the valley to the other, which blessing in part is
yet to be realized, Sister McRae had strong be-
lief in this promise, and although her home has
been for the last eight years in the Gila valley, she
has expressed a desire many times to end her days
at St. David.
	Her constant desire for an education urged her
to gather the children of the colony around her,
and impart into them, free of charge, such knowl-
edge as she could give them. “All her lifetime she
longed to be obtaining knowledge and information,
and while in the home of Mrs. E. B. Wells, where
she lived three years, she manifested an intense
desire to acquire learning from books and from
obseivation, and the association of the good sisters
who frequently visited Mrs. Wells’ home. Mrs.
Wells’ little girls were very fond of her and looked
upon her as a dear friend, almost a sister. Maria
was then very young, only fourteen years of age,
when she became a member of the family, and
she endeared herself to all with whom she became
acquainted. She is deserving of the highest
tribute of praise and commendation for her nobili-
ty of character and her unflinching integrity to
the truth.”
	She leaves a husband and eight children, six
sons and two daughters, and ten grandchildren to
mourn her loss, A loving, tender and wise mother,
a devoted wife and wise counselor to her husband
and a genuine friend, hospitable in the home and
full of charity for all who were in need.
RESOLUTIONS.
	At the regular monthly meeting of the officers

[Column 2]
of the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, the follow-
ing resolutions were adopted by unanimous vote:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called our
beloved sister, Maria McRae, from our midst, who
was a member of the Stake Board of our Relief
Society, a faithful worker, a kind and loving
mother and a friend to all. Therefore be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the St.
Joseph Stake Relief Society do hereby express our
sympathy to her bereaved husband and family,
and we also desire to emulate her noble examples.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be placed on
the record of the St. Joseph Relief Society, a copy
sent to the bereaved family, also one sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

 		     MARICOPA STAKE.

	The Relief Society quarterly conference
was held in the Stake Tabernacle, March
21, 1901, Stake President Mabel A. Hakes
presiding. All the Stake officers were
present, except our treasurer, who has had
the misfortune to fall and break her arm.
	Five out of six wards were well represen-
ted with both officers and members. A
good spirit pervaded, all seemed ready and
willing to lend a helping hand with their
means to help the poor and needy, also to
assist those placed over them in rolling on
this great work. Though last year was
very dry considerable grain has been stored
away for time of need by being sealed air-
tight. The insects are very bad in this hot
climate. There are better prospects this
year, we all want to do much more in saving
grain, also beans, many fruits of all kinds,
or anything that can be saved in this way
The responsibility of parents, the drawing
of our young people around us, that we may
have an influence with the wayward, were
the principle subjects treated upon. Much
good instruction was given by Stake Presi-
dent R. H. Hakes and others.
	Meeting adjourned for three months, all
feeling this had been the best conference we
had ever had.
			Annie E. Fuller, Sec.

		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the 25th conference of the
Relief Society of the Uintah Stake, held
April 13, 1901, President Sarah Pope pre-
siding.
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great.
Jehovah.”Prayer by President Sarah
Pope. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sin-
cere desire.” Roll called. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	Bishop John N. Davis spoke at some
length on the good that is accomplished by
the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Sister Althura Collett was pleased to be
numbered among the sisters of the Relief
Society. Where are the sisters of this Stake
that there are not more at conference?
Thought all should strive to come.
	Sister Abigail Oaks said there were a
great many more temptations placed before
the young people now than when she was
a girl. We should teach our children the
beauties of being virtuous.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett thought there
ought to be more at conference this morn-
ing. We should pray for wisdom to be
able to counsel our sons and daughters
right, that they may become noble men
and women in Zion. It behooves each and
every one to strive with all his might to
help our young people in the straight and
narrow way.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing, “Where the voice of friendship’s
[column 2]
heard.” Benediction by Bishop John N.
Davis.
	Afternoon session opened with singing,
“Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by Counselor
A. K. Bartlett. Singing, “O ye mountains
high.”
	Brother James Hacking said he realized
in part the responsibilities and burdens rest-
ing upon the mothers in Israel. It is
marvelous to think of the labor performed
by the Relief Society sisters. Brother Jos.
H. Gardner always loved to listen to the
remarks of the sisters. Thought the sisters
of the Latter-day Saints were more blessed
than any women upon the face of the earth.
	Sister Davis bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the Gospel and related some
of her experiences in the Church.
	The statistical and financial report was
read and the general and local authorities
were sustained.
	President Sarah Pope bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
	Sister C. A. Stringham said belief alone
could not save us, we should not grow
weary in well doing.
	Sisters Minnie Davis and America Orser
spoke a few words in regard to to the Re-
lief Society work.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Benediction by
Brother James Hacking.
			Addie Longhurst, Sec.

		ALPINE STAKE.

	The first quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held in
the meeting house at American Fork, on
Friday, April 26, 1901, President Jemima
Durrant presiding. On the stand were
President Jane S. Richards, Sister Julia P.
M. Farnsworth and Rebecca Standring, all
of the General Board. The officers of the
Alpine Stake were all present and all the
presidents of the different wards.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Come,
come, ye Saints.” Prayer by Emma J.
Featherstone. Singing, “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	The secretary read a report taken at the
General Conference of the Relief Society.
	President Jemima Durrant made some
opening remarks. Said her mission had
hitherto been with the young ladies, but
was assured that now the Lord would bless
her in her present duties and calling. Vice-
President Martha Webb reported American
Fork Society. Pleasant Grove was re-
ported by President Sarah Foutz; Linden
by President Martha Woolley. President
Rebecca Standring was always proud to re-
port Lehi. They have 302 members and
more joining, all willing to work in this
great cause. They paid their ten cent fund,
they also have 1,687 bushels of wheat, hold
their meetings every two weeks, and some-
times take their meetings to the scattered
Saints. Prayed that all might be prepared
to give a righteous account.
	President Jane S. Richards said she was
pleased to be with us today and to see so
many present. Hoped the sisters would be
paid for coming, for it is the Lord’s work
we are engaged in and we agreed to come
and do it. We are here to stay and the
Lord has a care over us. He has made the
country and everything beautiful and if we
have a work assigned us we should try to
do it in the best possible manner. One of
the greatest things in the world is to have
children and to raise them in the best pos-


[Column 1]
sible manner, and we must ask the Lord
daily what we should do to accomplish
this and to keep them from going astray.
There is much required of those who pre-
side and let us sustain them, and do all we
can to help each other. Let us have all
the union that we can and all the love that
we can. The Savior lived among the poor
and lowly. She believed He had a great
respect for the poor. We are all on the
Lord’s side. And let us live so that we
may belong to that tried people who will
get their reward hereafter. Advised the
sisters to keep correct reports, referred to
President Brigham Young who said the
women had been slighted, their work had
not been recorded, and one month before
his death he established quarterly confer-
ences that the women might be represented.
Urged that every member pay ten cents
a year for the general fund, the Lord gives
us all we have, and we should not feel this
a hardship, but give it willingly. 
	Singing, “I need Thee every hour.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth bore testi-
mony to the remarks of the previous speak-
ers. She was proud of the Relief Society.
Said women made but little advancement
in the world until the Prophet Joseph
Smith organized the Relief Society.
Thought the reports given were very
creditable, and would be very glad when
our General Building was completed, so
that the sisters could have the use of it.
Spoke of her mother’s motto, which was
“Trust in God and fear no evil.”
	Singing. “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Sister Harriet Jacobs.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock.
Meeting opened by singing, “Joy to the
world, the Lord will come.” Prayer by
Brother Wm. R. Webb. The choir sang
an anthem, “Heavenly Father, hear our
prayer.”
	Cedar Fort Relief Society was reported
by President Elizabeth Berry; Alpine, by
President Sarah Marsh, and Manila by
President Isadora Beck. The reports were
quite encouraging. The officers and teach-
ers all seemed alive to their duties and will-
ing to take hold of any work.	Nearly all
the Wards have granaries with a consider-
able amount of grain. Realized that
the Relief Society is just the place for
women to work out their salvation and
learn to rear their children to serve the
Lord.
	President Jane S. Richards felt honored
to see the brethren come to meeting to help
the sisters. Thought we were a blest peo-
ple, we enjoy each other’s society, and one
of the best things that ever happened to us
is to be organized in this society. Wished
the sisters would visit those who are tardy
and hold meetings with them.	Desired all
the sisters to be alive to their duties, and
no one should be neglected. Said she used to
visit twenty-five branches every year, visit-
ing will keep them alive. Sister Eliza R.
Snow used to be very energetic in visiting.
The Lord will assist us in our duties. He
will give us His spirit to aid and improve

[Column 2]
us. Let us respect the authorities over us,
and if we have trouble, settle it without
going to the teachers. Let us rather go to
the Lord, and He will help us if we are
humble before Him.
	Singing, “Only remembered by what I
have done.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth said as 
the home is incomplete without the mother,
so the Relief Society is not perfect without
the brethren. She was proud to know the
pioneer men and women of this country.
Always had an interest in Relief Society
work, for it was established by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Spoke of the General
Building to be erected for the use of the
sisters. Thought we had one of the finest
sites in Salt Lake City.
	Brother Geo. Cunningham encouraged
the sisters in their work of relieving suffer-
ing humanity. Referred to the widow
who cast in two mites. It is the little
things that count, but these sisters are
doing a great work.
	Sister Harriet Jacobs said the Lord was
always willing to bless His children. We
have had a feast today in answer to prayer-
If we could realize our true position we
would never willingly stay away from
meeting. The Lord blesses his people.
We want our sons and daughters to go
forth and help to spread the Gospel. Spoke
of the blessing of paying tithing and desired
to stimulate the sisters to do their duty.
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
	Sister Annie S. Hindley said we are
God’s children and it is necessary that we
have trials. We must make sacrifices if we
expect to receive the blessings. Let us be
humble before the Lord, and do all the good
we can.
	Sister Zina Chipman was pleased to be
numbered with the Relief Society, and de-
sired to perform every duty required of her.
	Sister Laura Cutler said we had a great
work, not only in our own households, but
in the community where we live. Let us
do something to bless mankind and to im-
prove ourselves.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said we
form good resolutions in these meetings,
but when we go away we are apt to forget
them. It is necessary for us to be work-
ing constantly to keep us in line. When
we have responsible positions we become
brightened.
	President Jas H. Clark said here may be
found the spiritual backbone of the com-
munity. I believe the sisters a great in-
fluence in the Church, and in the progress
of the work of the Lord. “Sisters, you are
acknowledged of God. Your responsibili-
ties are no less than those of the brethren
and are no less recorded in heaven.”
	Brother Wm. Webb felt to congratulate
the sisters on the good advice and instruc-
tion they had received. We need to labor
as a unit in these things. Let us wake up
and do our duty and attend our meetings.
	President Jemima Durrant made some
closing remarks. Felt grateful to the
speakers, and also to the “Old Folks’

[Column 3]
Choir,” who had attended and cheered us
with sweet music. 
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Benediction by Brother Wm.
Grant. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money.						TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .

Se that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the best

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,		D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T.A.


Errata:—We regret that in the minutes
of the anniversary celebration of the Sixth
Ward this city, last issue of the paper, there
is an error in the name of the counselor in
the Relief Society, Sister Ellen R. Watson,
and the misprint makes the name West, in-
stead of her real name, Watson.
