
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 22. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, AND 15, 1893. No. 1.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Passing Thoughts
—Camelia. Our Precious Ones—Bertha Pack-
ard Englet. Sister Mercy R. Thompson—Lula.
Three Score and Ten—E. D. and L. D. Alder
W. S. A.—Maggie Bassett. A Faithful Sis-
ter—L. M. Boren. Who Mother Goose Was—
M. A. T. War of the Revolution. R. S. Report
Mattie Blair Hanson. Primary at Wallsburg—
Ida Boren. Notes and News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—The Woman's Exponent. Edi-
torial Notes.—Memorial Day.
	POETRY:—The One Doubt—Lu Dalton.


[Column 1]
THE ONE DOUBT.

I sit alone this ghostly night, with sad, slow
	beating heart,
A severed and polluted thing, from all I love
	apart;
Outside, the dreary, sobbing rain drips slowly
	from the eaves
And seems to mourn my crushing pain as tender
	friendship grieves,
Perhaps the tears mine eyes refuse find thus their
	voice and breath, 
And thus baptize with heavenly dews this lonely
	house of death.
No fear of night’s dark visitor who haunt un-
	guarded doors,
Who enter in and stealthily creep over chamber
	floors
In search of prey, it may be gold, or silver’s
	pallid sheen.
Which they will have though murder stand them
	and their prize between,'
Contagion is a trusty guard, and none will dare
	his might, 
Nor foe nor friend come hitherward—I am alone
	tonight..
My slow, dull thoughts, like ocean deep whose
	tides resistless roll,
Thus ebb and flow with solemn sweep beyond
	my weak control, 
Or idly gather dust and sand and dark, decaying
	leaves,
Like wind that blows across the land and worth-
	less trash receives.
To toss as idly here and there in dark, unsightly
	heaps,
And mock with laughter my despair which swoons
	but never sleeps.
Again, they heave upon my heart like mountain-
	weights of woe,
And almost crush my soul apart from its clay
	temple low;
One groan escapes my close-locked lips like Etna
	bursting through
Her granite crest which reels and dips, while
	flames obscure the blue, 
Blot out the sunshine clear and fair, and intercept
	its ray,
Replacing with its lurid glare the wholesome
	light of day.
I strive to think of angel bands in happy homes
	of light,
Of greetings glad and clasping hands and scenes
	of pure delight;
I strive to grasp, like drowning hands, the holy
	things I know,
To save my soul from treach’rous sands which
	clasp like Kelpie floe;

[Column 2]
﻿But oh! I cannot find the strength which still I
	know is there—
Before my eyes will still arise a picture of despair.
I see a face convulsed and pale, a struggle brave
	for breath,
A loving soul, when my hope failed, for my sake
	fighting death. 
The earth is wide, and, miles on miles, like some
	deep, crystal sea,
The precious air, in rippling smiles rolls bound-
	less, sweet and free;
With doors and windows open thrown to woo the
	balmy tide,
My loved one might not drink it in but gasping,
	struggling died.
The mothers might face undismayed a ravening
	wolf or bear,  
With which to  struggle for our. own and save or
	danger share;
But when the foe all silent comes on midnight’s
	heavy wings,
And fasten’s on our precious ones its deadly 
	venomed fangs, 
When we can only wring our hands, and only
	wildly pray, 
Our hearts break while we helpless stand and see
	them borne away. 
How often, by his parching lips, his loved one’s
	names were said,
And how he longed just once to see their faces
	’round his bed!
But oh! he knew that pain and death in his
	caresses slept,
And, to his latest, conscious breath, in safety
	wished them kept;
And I, his mother, must refrain the parting kiss
	to take—
“Twould only be one added pain—for other dear
	one’s sake.
Still for their sake, in cruel haste, through dark-
	ness and through rain,
I’ve sent him from his mother’s door, who may
	not come again,
In shroud and casket white and fair,with flowers
	on his breast,
Unkissed, but sanctified with prayer, my child is
	gone to rest.
This sobbing rain, like healing tears which my
	eyes cannot shed, 
I’ll hear through all the coming years, still weep-
	ing o’er my dead.
Perhaps tomorrow I can weep through this wide- 
	eyed dismay; 
Perhaps the blessed balm of sleep will come be-
	fore the day;
Perhaps a ray of light may pierce this awful sphere
	of gloom,  
Perhaps to grief so dumb, so fierce may hope of
	comfort come;
Perhaps some angel may descend to help me
	bear my pain,
And prove my deep and dreadful loss to be my
	darling’s gain.
If I could know God took, my child, of free and 
	gracious will,
The widow’s son I could give up and bid my grief
	Be still!
But oh, the doubt! the rending doubt that he
	untimely went 
Because the earth was sick and foul and deadly
	breathings sent,

[Column 3]
Which, ent'ring in his house of life, drove his
	pure spirit out;—
Ah me! ’twixt faith and fear the strife around
	this dreadful doubt!
If I could know, if I could know that he was
	called away
About his Father’s work to go, and had no need
	to stay,
I do believe that I could bless the hand that holds
	the rod
O’er me, while in his loveliness he goes to dwell
	with God,
And there fulfill the wondrous plan he here so
	fondly laid,
To build a better house for me, with trees for
	fruit and shade. 
In such a daze, I almost feel all other ties un-
	bound, 
And that the child I seem to lose is now but truly
	found,
It may be so, I do not know; God’s will in all be
	done.
But he I mourn is safe, and oh, I have a younger.
	son,
Whose need of mentor, friend and guide, shonld
	all-sufficient be 
To help his mother lay aside undue despondency=
I must shake off this blank despair and face my
	life again,
And lose in holy mother care the keen edge of
	my pain;
Let me remember one who said, when scorched
	with grief like flame: 
Methinks the purest bliss on earth is sorrow with-
	out shame!
And shame no smallest blot hath laid upon the
	record brief
Which tells the story of his life—dear thought to
	bless my grief.
Farewell, my son, my loving one who ever 
	thought and planned
What small or great things might be done by 
	his own boyish hand
To please his mother, comfort me and help me
	bear my load;
Because, though child, he seemed to see I’ve
	walked a weary road,
I cannot pierce the mystery now—hereafter I 
	shall know
If he were called, or if my hand through weak-
	ness let him go.
LU DALTON.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXII.

	LADY ANNA rather enjoyed the quiet
restfulness of the summer day at the old
Castle and recalled the sweetness of her
childhood, forgetting the unpleasantness of
her father remembering how much he had
left her to have her own way, though he
had refused to associate with his neighbors
or to allow her to accept their invitations;
thinking it over now, she was glad of it for
they would not intrude upon her in her
solitude there, when she so much wished to
be left to herself; she was too proud to tell 
her troubles, she would scarcely acknowl-
edge them to herself; once or twice during
that day she caught herself soliloquizing,


[Column 1]
aloud,” I’m not so sorry I’m alone in the
world I could not have endured the thought
of my mother knowing me neglected only
such a short time married, and my father
would have been violent had he lived to
see me thus, he would have made Maitland
suffer or treat me differently, there would
have been many a stormy scene doubtless,
it is far better to suffer alone,”—while thus
reflecting Lady Anna like most young
women was possessed with the one idea, her
own trials, and unaware that her father had
been quite as cruel if not more so indeed;
she was so absorbed in herself, everything
else was as nothing. Baby Edward was
like a young prince among the servants at
the Castle, the old lodgekeeper and his
good dame made much of the nurse and
fondled the child in adoration almost, and
before the day was over nurse Werner
heard more of the family history in many
things than Lady Anna herself for trusted
people such as these two old folks, see and
hear much that is kept from younger mem-
bers of the household. Had Lady Anna
known of the gossip she would have kept
nurse and baby at her side; the coachman
too was prying around here and there to
pass the time away, and years afterwards
these two talked over the wonderful tale
heard that one day at Hilliard castle.
Waiting that evening when all was ready
for the drive home, the Walton coachman
could scarcely refrain from chattering and
as he helped nurse to settle herself and
baby, said with a knowing wink in his
eye, “great folks are som’w’at like, the
world o’er, they’re no better than they
should be and it al’ays leaks out.” Nurse
replied in much the same strain and the
two soon found a chance to talk over the
gossip together, and anon the troop of ser-
vants at Walton Hall were posted on the 
old stories about Sir Edward and Lady
Walton, that had been a profound secret so
many years.
	Mrs. Bland interviewed her husband on
the question of taking the Walton heir to
“the new world,” and he thought that if the
Waltons opposed it there might be too much
controversy, and it would be better for Anna
and all around to let the matter rest, be-
sides he said “I’m not sure I can undertake
a sea voyage and for the time being Jane,
advise your cousin not to agitate the sub-
ject wait for circumstances to develop, see
what news will come from Mr. Harrison
and Clair, they will not remain away
always, and should Clair return she would
be more cheerful and her life would be quite
different, he ought to come back and look
after the estate, it needs a master, every-
thing will go to ruin under such poor
management, left to incompetent people
who think of nothing but eating and drink-
ing.”
	“Poor Anna how sorry I am for her she
is so unhappy,” replied Mrs. Bland, “I
tried my best to interest her in some way,
but she broods over Maitland’s neglect, and
never thinks of her own health; what a
change from the time when I came to my
uncle, how beautiful she was, how firm the
step, and her voice was as sweet as a young
lark’s, if she could only rise above it and
find some solace in life, not that I would
like to see her dash into society among the
frivolous butterflies of fashion, like Lady
Walton her mother-in-law, O, no, she is
far too good to live for admiration, to dance
and flirt, and idle- away her time among the
beau monde."

[Column 2]	
	"And pray my dear what would you
advise a woman tc do who is young, beau-
tiful, and attractive, and whose husband
follows the devices of fashionable life, and
leaves her at home to depend on her own
resources. to pass away the time; remember
people like your cousin, have no household
duties, they are simply to be waited upon,
and to take no thought of their establish-
ments, and in her case she is scarcely the
mistress, though the Lady in chief is away,
the Walton household would scarce recog-
nize such a dainty young woman to control
the affairs, but Jane my dear you have
never told me before of Maitland’s aunt,
who is she? and why does she assume to
dictate to her nephew’s wife?” the Doctor
stopped short waiting for a reply from his
wife, but she knew very little about Miss
Walton. “She is a spinster aunt, and puts
on airs evidently, finding my cousin such a
lamb-like creature; possibly thinks she can
make capital out of her, and get her own
ends gratified, find a rich husband at the
seaside; . bathing resorts are considered
famous places for match-making I’ve been
told, but if she once rouses Anna’s stubborn
nature, she will find the old lion in her,
though so far in her life it has not been
roused; I have seen enough to know that
the same indomitable will power that uncle
Edward had is latent in his daughter, and
the Walton’s must take care they don’t go
too far; once the Hilliard blood is stirred,
one could scarcely feel safe as to results."
	“Let us hope my dear that all will settle
down quietly, Anna has shown that she
can bear a great deal without retaliating.”
	“From Maitland yes, perhaps from his
mother, but not from a third party; I ad-
vised her not to allow the subject to come
up, and I wish it never might; she is very
excitable. You asked just now dear, what
a pretty woman could do under such circum-
stances as Anna’s. She might devote her-
self to music, she plays beautifully, but
then there is no one to hear her, she re-
ceives no visitors except such as her hus-
band brings, and they are not people he
wants her to mingle with. She is simply
shut out from the world, and she is right in
trying to go away and get Maitland to
change his habits of living altogether; I
wish with all my heart something would
transpire to  induce him to go abroad any-
where almost, and whatever came of it, it
would be a relief.”
	It was not many days until something
did happen and a decided change in all the
family took place. News came from Italy
of Lady Walton’s engagement to an Italian
Count. Maitland was furious, the lawyers
from London were sent for and the house
was in great confusion. Aunt Walton was
indignant and poor Anna in a constant
fever of excitement lest there should be
serious difficulty; she said nothing except
to try and persuade Maitland to wait for
more than a floating rumor, but he could
not be silent. “He’s some poor rascal no
doubt who wants money to carry his title,
and thinks he can come over here, and con-
trol Walton Hall, and bring his violet-eyed
crew with him, and sport and hunt; and
play too may be, here in this very house,
I’ll teach him a lesson, he can’t come here;
I’m master of Walton Hall and no Italian
Count can intrude upon my domain,” all
this was poured out to his demure little wife
and much more in the same strain.
	By and by a letter came to the barrister’s
office in London, saying Lady Walton’s
marriage with the Count Sautarelli would

[Column 3]
be solemnized in Rome, and the party
would travel on the continent before return-
ing to England. Everything was to be
very quiet, and Maitland was not to be dis-
turbed by any arrangements, that might
be necessary to make in preparing papers,
or documents. Lady Walton would be
grieved to cause her son the least unhappi-
ness. All these facts were communicated
to Maitland after the manner of the English
law, and notwithstanding Maitland’s annoy-
ance he consoled himself by thinking he
was still more his own master, than if his
mother were to return alone; she would be
too much engrossed with her new conditions
to interfere with him. But she was draw-
ing heavily upon her banker and he began to
inquire as to his own rights of interference.
He found that his father had settled things
a little differently to most English noble-
men, and his mother’s inheritance was the
lion’s share of all except the country seat of
which he had entire control, but with the
understanding it was her home whenever
she chose to remain there. Maitland had
been betting heavily of late and entertain-
ing his comrades in a much more extrava-
gant fashion than usual, he knew he was
drawing largely but never dreamed his
mother would marry again and their in-
terests be divided; no provision in the will
had hinted at another marriage and Mait-
land had fancied his mother’s love for him
was the one tender passion of her lifetime.
He knew little about women in a general
sense, his companions were men, and he
never knew much of the domestic life of
his own parents. He had been sent to
school early and traveled abroad with a
private tutor who was wholly devoted to
subjects apart from women, and he had
fallen in love with an unsophisticated girl
when quite young, and he drew all his
conclusions from his own experience, for
he had neither been a great reader of
character, or student of books. In fact
though Anna worshipped him as she did, he
was only very common place in many res-
pects except that he was “well-born.”
	Lady Walton’s marriage ceremony was
performed by Father Giuda a Roman
Catholic Priest and Miss Walton the aunt
was furious when the news came that any
one who had ever borne the Walton name
should be connected with the hated Catho-
lics, “to think my brother’s wife should
stoop so low, its a wonder he can rest in
his tomb, but the dead don’t know I’m
sure of it or many things would transpire
we never hear of.”
	“O don’t take it so to heart,” said Lady
Anna pitifully, for she was generous to her
enemies even, and Aunt Walton had shown
no consideration for her, “I’m sure Lady
Walton means it all for the best, she was
very lonely here, and she tired of society,
didn’t know what to do after Lord Walton’s
death and so went abroad to forget her
troubles.”
	“Troubles she never had any, and as for
occupation isn’t there plenty to do on an
estate like this, looking after the people
that are employed to see that they don’t rob
you at every turn,” said the aunt taking
the matter practically as she was likely to,
seeing she was a younger member of a
family where the eldest son had inherited,
and others were left with only a pittance.
	“How do you know the dead can’t come
back, Aunt Walton?” inquired Lady Anna
half afraid to ask the question, I should
like to know more than I do about such
matters, I often have thought of late if


only my mother would come and talk to
me, and comfort me I should be better and
happier.”
	“Really Anna you alarm me, are you
losing your wits, you have everything, and
then want the dead to come to you, well for
my part I prefer the living, but if you like
ghosts and all that sort of thing you ought
to be content for this old place has a legend
that would satisfy the most superstitious.”
	“This very place Walton Hall aunt, do
you mean what you say? Maitland surely
didu’t know when he brought me here.”
	Very likely not my child, but Lady Wal-
ton knows, and that is probably one of her
reasons for going away, as for me I’m too
practical for these things to make any im-
pression, and if the ghosts came to me I
should simply defy them, and tell them I
wanted to be left alone, and get my re-
gular night’s sleep; but its only silly,
nervous, fidgety people that ever see
them.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.﻿


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.

	DRESS AND COLOR:—In a woman’s paper
the subject of dress finds a very fitting
place, for what woman does not delight to
a greater or less degree in the arranging of
the toilette, and in the present time the
theme is considered of sufficient impor-
tance not only to be discussed in the
fashion magazines but in the metropolitian
dailies and monthly reviews as well as in
public meetings, and conventions. “How
shall we dress?” is now a momentous
question, shall we adopt the Jenness Miller
style and consider our health while our
fashionable sisters follow the French
modiste and are conspicious in crinoline,
shall we wear the Syrian blouse and bloom-
ers with the knee skirt or continue sweep-
ing the streets with the graceful but abom-
inable bell skirt.
	The woman of sense need ask no questions
in order to always look well dressed, for in
this day of such varied fashions there are a
few simple rules to follow which though a
woman be poor or rich, old or young home-
ly or beautiful she may appear fashionable
and well dressed; avoid extremes select a
becoming color or combination of colors
and make your dresses neat.
	How we have laughed at the pictures of
our older sisters taken long ago in what
was then termed the Deseret costume, but
do you know it differs very little from the
pretty and becoming Jenness Miller suit.
	Some few Utah women adopted this
Deseret suit and made every effort to induce
all the woman of Utah to do so, but it was
a failure. It was not the fashion and the
women refused to wear it though it was
certainly not half so ugly as the immense
hoops they adopted shortly after.
	Each woman has a personality, which is
distinguished often in her dress, and
somehow we have always, until recently
objected to uniforms, (that is on ourselves)
but nowadays surely woman’s dress is be-
coming much the same everywhere. The
uniform, I call it, is this most common, but
quite taking and “swell like” navy blue
skirt and blazer with the fresh pretty shirt
waist. A lady friend recently arrived from
Chicago, says one can scarcely tell one wo-
man from another on the streets for they
all have navy blue dresses, shirt waists,
sailor hats and low tan shoes. A costume
simple pretty and neat but a uniform never-

[Column 2]
theless. Navy blue is certainly the pre-
vailing color, the truth is, it is not at all
trying—brunettes as well as blondes look
well in it—it is not easily soiled and is ap-
propriate for any occasion but my! how
awfully common,every sailor,soldier, cadet,
policeman, railroad officer, street railway
conductor and motorman, and now the
women as well dress in navy blue, and sad
to admit it but Chinamen also; not real
aristocratic Chinamen but just ordinary
everyday Chinamen.
	Is there not such a thing as extremes
even in color. Not long since black was
the only color women chose for their best
costumes, and only fancy in this dusty
country; the work it took to keep those
black dresses clean. Now gray is the
prettiest and neatest color in the world,
especially for elderly ladies, young women
look well in something brighter, the subdued
half tones of the green, purple, orange and
red; and children, if they are clean, are
beautiful in anything though white is ever
the favorite.
	Children:—What strange things one sees
and hears in a short trip on the street rail-
way; I have sometimes felt like carrying
a note book with me just for the purpose of
jotting down a few items heard on the way
and I am sure it would make an interesting
volume. The other day while the car was
side tracked, I heard a voice behind me re-
lating something about a woman having
given her children away, and I immediately
strained my efforts to catch her every word.
	The thought of a mother giving her own
little ones away seems most terrible, but of
course one does not always know the
circumstances which necessitate such an act,
yet it seems in this instance the mother
only wished to rid herself of the burden
of caring for them and her adieux to them
were neither pitiful nor regretful. Only
think, a woman to be so heartless as to
willingly give away the beautiful gifts of
God, to a stranger; and these children born
from such an unfeeling mother, what can
one expect of them?
	The little boy six years old has already
learned that the street car will carry him to
town for nothing, and day after day he runs
away and stays on the public streets until
ten and eleven o’clock, and two nights I
heard her say he had been out all night
long, having slept in a box on Main street.
Is the guardian firm enough or is the wan-
dering spirit so inherent in him, that the
child is bound to follow a wicked life.
What can the destiny of such a child be? I
thought of the terrible, recent tragedy in
this city when the twelve year old boy shot
the little lad only five years old, and won-
dered if this little wayward child was not
likely to become a youthful criminal.
Does not the woman who accepted the
charge of those children take upon herself
as much responsibility as the natural moth-
er would, and if she is incompetent and
finds she cannot control the child the
county should be advised and find for
them a home where they can be controlled;
stricter measures in the home compelling
obedience is likely to make better citizens.
If we have a curfew law let it be enforced,
at any rate have some regulations to keep
the youth off the streets at night, or else
the reformatories and prison will be filled
sooner than we know.
	Some people make a great mistake about
the Sabbath they seem to think because it
is a day of rest that they must make it the

[column 3]
pleasure day of the week, and they seek
amusement and diversion at the resorts and
public places. To me Sunday is the home
day, a sweet, quiet,restful day.
	I would have as llttle work as possible
around on Sunday, and the children should
neither visit nor go picnicing.  After the
Sunday school they are not restrained and
compelled to sit and read religious books
neither are they allowed to romp and run as
on other days, but a happy quiet time at
home is the Sunday program and I believe
it makes the little ones more thoughtful,
and gives them a reverence for the day we
call the “Lords Day.” Mother’s always
have so many things to do but surely the
baking and brewing and washing and sweep-
ing and all, are not half so urgent or neces-
sary as the care of the little children; keep
them around you mothers all you can, em-
ploy them in some light way, you can’t
imagine the steps a little fellow can save his
mamma waiting on her during the work-
ing hours, and when the work is done per-
haps mamma can find time to play and romp
with the children awhile, try it and see how
soon the roses will come back to your cheeks,
the brightness to the eyes,and the roundness
to the limbs; a game of ball, pomp or hide
and seek, or some childish sport is just as
strengthening as an hour’s drilling with
dumb bells, or Indian clubs in a physical
culture class, and it makes the children
happy and keeps them home with you as
well. CAMELIA.


OUR PRECIOUS ONES.

NOT our little baby charges do I mean
now, but our dear old white-haired people
who share our homes.
	Do you know, I think it is a sure sign
that God's approval and blessing are ours
if we make the downhill road very 
pleasant to those who cling so trustingly to
us, who once, in years long gone, clung as
trustingly to them.  How many months
and years were we wholly dependent upon
the kindness shown us by those dear,
patient people!  We were sick, and cross,
and needed much care; knew nothing at 
first, and were ever a terrible expense.
They now have the hoarded wisdom of
threescore years and ten.  They have met
the storms, and are ripened by the blasts
and suns of many winters and summers.
	Besides, their pleasure now rests in us
alone.  Their dear hearts are open to the 
imprints we may put there.  I know their
eyes are ever scanning our faces, reading
in them the prospects of the hour.  If we
treat them slightly the wound is sure to
be deeper than it would have been in
earlier times, for now they are so wonder-
fully tender in heart.  We can hardly realize
the utter truth of this last statement unless
we closely watch a face that is wrinkled
with age, when the limbs are weak and stiff,
the hands tired with past work, and heart
hungry for our love.
	Almost the same simple joy is seen when
kind words are spoken to the aged as is
seen in the face of a child.  And, as we
know we were tenderly cherished in child-
hood, let us as tenderly cherish those who
now need our love more than we ever did
theirs.  Let it be our first joy and duty to
make them happy, to make their roads
smooth and pleasant, and God will know 
who are the ones that have deserved the 
"well done" by and by.
		BERTHA PACKARD ENGLET.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 1, and 15, 1893.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	THERE never was a time when there was
greater need of communication through the
press between women connected with or-
ganizations, or even individual women than
the present. The multitude of subjects
that agitate the human mind, and the
public welfare, that call for discussion and
an expression of views and opinions, and
the advanced progression of woman her-
self, as a part and parcel of the great body
politic, as well as the status she holds
educationally and socially, morally and
religiously in this age of the world, all
these are good and sufficient reasons, and in
fact demand that women composing any
great organization, or dwelling in any
locality where their influence is a help and
a power, should certainly have a woman’s
paper or journal of their own; and that
such a paper should be well sustained it is
needless to add. That women are in
many respects blind to their own best and
highest interest and advancement in this re-
gard is also apparent, or they would be
more alive and helpful in increasing the
circulation of papers published in their own
locality that advocate their own particular
views, and the advancement of theories and
practices, that will elevate and uplift hu-
manity to the broadest platform of human
rights for both men and women.
	That the WOMAN'S EXPONENT has been
doing this kind and character of work
from the very first number ever issued, no
woman need be afraid to state, and that it
has been a help, a comfort and a blessing
in thousands of homes and in the mission-
ary fields of labor abroad, as well as in re-
moving prejudice to many hundreds who
have accidently come in contact with it in
their travels, or have had it given them by
friends.	
	It seems remarkably strange that the
very women whose influence should be
used to uphold and maintain the paper,
should realize its importance so little as to
think because times are hard and there is
a depression in the money market and the
value of silver is low, that they cannot
afford to take a paper at a dollar a year,
which would not average the amount of
one third of a cent a day the year round;
when one puts it in this light how ridiculous
it seems, and when it is remembered that
two women or four may make up the money
between them and have the privilege of
reading what other women are doing all
over the great busy world would be more
amusing still, were it not that the hard

[Column 2]
practical fact still remains, that many wo-
men give a dollar to go to one theatre, or
to a circus or negro minstrel show, or for
some trifle when it would help a cause
along, that will benefit the whole human
race by spreading light and intelligence
abroad in the earth.
	The women of this people should be zeal-
ous to sustain the paper, that has been es-
tablished and circulated specially for the
advocacy of the principles which they be-
lieve, and for which they stand as repre-
sentatives and the faith of which they are
the living exponents and defenders.
	To make flimsy excuses such as are of-
ten sent in letters to this office is childish,
and if those who make them would only
stop and consider, that the one dollar a
year paid by one subscriber, is only a very
small part indeed of the price of one
month’s payment for printing alone, with-
out the consideration of postage or office
rent or any incidentals, perhaps it might
change the aspect of things very much.
	Newspapers and books are not published
without money, and when money is ex-
pended for good reading matter, for every
dollar paid there is value received with
interest.
	It is unnecessary to repeat what has been
so often published concerning the EXPONENT
of the good work it has done historically,
of the record it has made of the organiza-
tions of women, the biographies and a thou-
sand and one other things; surely the
sisters must feel that it is a necessity for
them and would be a calamity to be with-
out it, and if so then lend a helping hand
just now when it is so much wanted. Agi-
tate the subject get your friends and neigh-
bors to subscribe, and urge those who have
been dilatory in paying back subscriptions
to come forward and pay up all
delinquencies. 
	During the Columbian Exposition
thousands of copies should be given away,
and as zealous workers in a good cause, our
sisters ought to be able to do at least this
philanthropic work. Women are giving
away pamphlets and circulars daily
to advertise their views and their particular
organizations in Chicago at the present
time, and we often hear people say if there
was something for a few cents we could
afford to give to strangers and tourists,
that would give them some idea of our
work we would only be too glad to do it;
now the woman’s paper is just the right
thing for it is still very generally believed
that women in this Church are ignorant and
in subjection, one copy of the EXPONENT
(and it is sold for five cents a copy)
is tangible proof to the contrary. To those
who are anxious to do something in a
small way to scatter good seed and spread
the truth concerning the women of this part
of the world, why no surer method could be
advocated than to circulate the woman’s
paper. It speaks for itself and enters
where no Mormon Elder would be permit-
ted.
	We have frequently remarked in public
and in private, what would we have been
without the Relief Society? And with the
same propriety we can say what would the
Relief Society be without the EXPONENT?
The Deseret News tells the people why
they should subscribe etc. giving good and
substantial reasons, we might with good
grace tell the sisters why they should sub-
scribe for and maintain the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. 
But let us hope it will not be necessary

[Column 3]
to urge any further the necessity and im-
portance of subscribing; agents everywhere
should be active and energetic not only
in getting new names but in collecting
that which is due, and if this were effec-
tuallv done there would be little or no de-
lay in issuing the paper.
	Missionaries in Scandinavia in Holland
and in other foreign parts acknowledge how
helpful the EXPONENT is in their work
among the nations.
	Many times while in Chicago women
whom we had never seen before, said O,
yes I know the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,and it
has enlightened me greatly on your ques-
tion especially concerning the women of
your faith.  Let us hope that during this
year though the outlook generally is not
so bright as it has been, that women will as
is usually the case in emergencies and un-
der trying circumstances, exert themselves
more earnestly and industriously in every
good cause, and by all means in their
power help to sustain their own paper, and
make it a helpful and delightful source of
information and of moral and spiritual
strength in the households of the saints,
and a blessing and a credit to those outside
who are desirous of learning the truth con-
cerning our belief and our institutions.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE World’s Fair articles and report
of the Relief Society Conference of this
Stake are laid over until the next issue of
the paper to make room for shorter articles
that have come in and also for the long but
very excellent poem by Lu Dalton.
	BOUQUETS of flowers, roses, carnations
and other varieties fresh from the summer
gardens have been presented to us since our
return, fragrant with sweet perfume and 
more precious still because of the loving
hearts that prompted the beautiful gifts.
	MRS. MARGARET A. CAINE left for
Chicago on Saturday July 1st, to superin-
tend the silk processes.  Mrs. Eliza
Fosgreen of Brigham City and Miss Ella
Pyper of this City, have gone on with her
to reel and weave the silk in the Woman's
Building on the Fair grounds.
	Mrs. Salisbury Lady Commissioner for
Utah and Miss Keogh her altermate have
both gone East this month to meet with
the Board of Lady Managers, Mrs. Palmer
particularily desired Mrs. Salisbury's
presence on important matters, she will
probably not remain away very long.
Meantime the silk interest here will not be
neglected as all matters will be promptly
attended to by Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Chair-
man of the Silk Committee for Utah.
	THE ladies of Utah interested in the
World's Fair work will be pleased to know
that Mrs. Emily S. Richards, President of
the Territorial Board of Managers, returned
recently from Chicago, though her stay at
home will probably not be a long one, as
the arduous duties of the office, require so
much that must necessarily be attended to
or superintended personally.  Mrs. Rich-
ards will enjoy the fresh and invigorating
mountain air after being stifled up in a
crowded City, and in the Utah Building
where such crowds of people congregate
every day—the responsibility must be very
wearing and tiresome.  It is a position,
however, where the President has a great
opportunity to impart imformation and re-


move prejudice from the minds of the
people. Mrs. Richards and Miss Preston
both seem to have made a most favorable
impression upon the people with whom
they have been associated while at the post
of duty. We welcome them home, and
trust they may rest and recruit ready for
the fall campaign, which is likely to be more
trying because of the numerous attendance
and the state ceremonies on the ninth of
September.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SISTER MERCY R. THOMPSON.

	On the fifteenth of June, 1893, Sister
Mercy Rachel Thompson completed her
eighty-sixth year. A few special friends
called on her, and were well repaid for so
doing, by listening to recitals of events
which transpired in the days of the Prophet
Joseph and his brother Hyrum. With
both of those noble men of God, Sister
Thompson was personally and intimately
associated for a number of years, being
sister-in-law to Hyrum. And in her
memory and journal are stored many in-
teresting and valuable things, connected
with the Church and its leaders in those
early times, which it is not only pleasur-
able, but profitable as well, for younger
people to hear rehearsed. Indeed, there is
no better way, (so I thought while being
entertained at Sister Mercy’s) for younger
members of the Church to pass away an
hour or two occasionally, than in the com-
pany of those who have had long experience
in the service of the Lord and the com-
panionship of His most faithful and en-
lightened servants. To listen to accounts
of scenes and circumstances which oc-
curred in the life of the Prophet, from the
lips of one who participated in them,
makes a person feel better acquainted with
Joseph himself, than reading his written
history can do. However detailed the writ-
ten account may be, queries will often arise
in the mind of the careful reader, which
the finished book cannot answer, but the
colloquial companion may.
	With no less competent a listener than
Sister Helen Mar Whitney to furnish in-
telligent and important questions coupled
with items from her own store of information,
although but a short visit was made to our
venerable friend and her genial daughter,
yet,
	Bright were the blossoms shaken,
	For our gleaning in that fair bower;
	And ever will sweet thoughts’ waken,
	With memories of that hour.

	Birthday remembrances were brought,
or sent to Sister Mercy, strictly in keeping
with the beautiful month in which she
was born; being principally, fair floral of-
ferings, sweet emblems of the love and fel-
lowship of sincere friends.
	Among the pleasant and instructive
things we heard from Sister Mercy’s lips,
was a simple narration of a circumstance in
her own private experience, of late date.
	For some years past, Sister Thompson
has been unable to walk about and render
assistance in the Relief Society, and other
positions, in which she formerly worked
faithfully and efficiently. This has at
times, been a severe trial to her, and only
a short time ago, she was feeling sorrowful
over it, when she remembered that, al-
though it was late in the day, she had
neglected to read her “Daily Text,” which
is usually read in the morning. Taking
the little text book which she always keeps

[Column 2]
handy by her, and which contains a text
for every day in the year, she was ex- 
ceedingly pleased, and her faith in God's
care over her was refreshed when she
found the text for that day was singularly
appropriate to her own needs. She read,
“For if there be first a willing mind, it is
accepted according to that a man hath, and
not according to that he hath not,” 2nd Cor.
VIII.—12.
	“To thee it speaks, who worn with pain,
	Still long’st to use the fettered limb,
	And do thy Master’s work again;
	’Tis well—the heart is all to Him,
	Not what was done in moments flown,
	But what the sufferer longed to do,
	in many an hour depress'd, alone,
	When spirits failed, and means were few,”

	These lines may meet the eyes and
strengthen the hearts of others, whose con-
ditions are similar to those of Sister Thomp-
son; with this hope are they here repro-
duced.
	A pleasing repast was spread, and with
suitable chat, partaken of by the hostess
and her friends.
	With heart-felt and mutual blessings,
the little company dispersed early in the
evening, every one wishing for Sister
Mercy, many, many happy returns of the
day.
							LULA.


THREE SCORE AND TEN.

	It was a very pleasant gathering that
met at the residence of Sister Julia C.
Howe, on the 17th day of June, 1893.
That date being her seventieth birthday.
	About twenty five of her many friends
assembled to do honor to her on the oc-
casion. This party was a complete sur-
prise to Sister Howe. While she was at-
tending the semi-monthly meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, the
sisters gathered at her home, and upon her
return she found them in possession and
herself their honored guest. She was greet-
ed with congratulations and good wishes
from every one present. While notes of
regret for absence, and congratulations were
received from several dear friends who were
unable to be present.
	The company was made up of old and
young. There were present those whom
Sister Howe had labored with for many
years in the Relief Society, others there
were who had been associated with and in-
structed by her in the Y. L. M. I. A. and
still others who had graduated under her
watch care from the Primary Association,
and were now useful workers in the Y. L.
M. I. A., and last but not least were dear
friends, whom the Gospel had bound to her
and to each other with a bond of friendship
so lasting as to extend into eternity.
	After the first effects of the surprise had
subsided a little, the gathering resolved it-
self into a meeting,Sister Lydia D. Alder be-
ing unanimously chosen chairman. Re
marks were made by the sisters, expressive
of love and good wishes for Sister Howe
and appreciation of her labors.
	Mothers spoke with gratitude of the
great good Sister Howe had done and was
doing for their children. Young ladies re-
ferred to the benefit she had been to them
as members of the Primary and Y. L. M.
I. A. Friends testified of the peace and 
comfort she had brought to them in hours
of affliction, sickness and sorrow. Her
untiring and faithful labors in the several
associations of the Seventeenth Ward were
referred to with praise.


Each one felt that the friendship of Sis-
ter Howe was a blessing to be highly ap-
preciated. All felt to congratulate her up-
on her well spent life and youthful appear-
ance, and desired that she might have
many more happy years and continue her
good works and witness their results.
	Sister Howe in a few brief remarks ex-
pressed gratitude for this loving effort on
the part of her friends, thanked them for
their words of love and encouragement, felt
to appreciate the honor bestowed upon her
by those present but felt unworthy of re-
ceiving so much. It did her heart good to
hear her sisters say that she had benefitted
them. Had endeavored to do good, but
many times thought that the endeavor had
failed to result in benefit to any one.
	During their remarks the sisters bore
beautiful testimonies to the truth of the
Gospel, and the peace and unity enjoyed
through the influence of the Spirit of God.
This spirit pervaded the gathering and
each one felt that it was good to be present.
	A pleasant feature of the meeting was
the reading of a poem, written for the oc-
casion by Sister Lydia D. Alder, and read
by her.
	At the close of the meeting delicious re-
freshments were served by the committee
of arrangements, of which all partook with
enjoyment. The remainder of the evening
was spent in social conversation. All went
away feeling that they had enjoyed a feast
temporally and spiritually, and that in
striving to bless and comfort a dearly loved
sister, they had themselves received a
blessing.
	Much credit is due to Sister Howe's
counselors in the Primary Association,
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie and Zina Hyde,
also to Sister Lydia D. Alder and Elizabeth
Stevenson who were the promoters and
took great pleasure in working for the
success of the gathering.
	We would also add that this same date was
the birthday of Sister M. E. Wilcox, who
was present and received many congratu-
lations and good wishes.
					E.D

A TRIBUTE OF LOVE AND ESTEEM TO MY DEAR 
FRIEND JULIA C. HOWE ON HER SEVENTIETH
BIRTHDAY JUNE I7TH, 1893

Full seventy years ago they say,
You first beheld the light of day;
	On far off England’s shore;
How many changes since that time
Have come to that dear heart of thine;
	Thy love grown more and more.

You’ve seen your friends pass one by one 
“Beyond the gates,” their life work done.
	Where they look back for you;
They watch your daily walk in life 
Their thoughts with blessing you are rife,
	And fall like heavenly dew.

In loving you I have been blest
Your counsels in my heart will rest,
	’Till time shall be no more,
You’ve given to me your love and tears
Through many, many changing years— 
 	God love you ever more.

To Heaven’s voice you have been true—
The youth of Zion pray for you
	And love you for your sake,
You’ve taught them long and faithfully
To ever true aud steadfast be—
	And never God forsake.

May Heaven’s choicest blessings flow,
Through all your journey here below 
	Unto your faithful heart;
And strains Celestial welcome you, 
When Heaven’s gates you wander through 
	To never more depart.


Dear friend accept this tribute true
My loving heart sends out to you,
	On this your natal day;
And may we meet on that bright shore
Where tears shall course no, never more
	And friends are true alway.
						L. D. ALDER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL DAY.

HANNAH T. KING.

	THE 1st,of July Saturday was observed by
a few intimate friends in accordance with
arrangements made two years ago, to set
apart a day to the memory of this gifted
woman. At the hour named in the invi-
tation several ladies assembled at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee a sis-
ter poet and country woman of Mrs. King’s,
the afternoon and early evening were devot-
ed to reminescences of the life, writings and
friendships of Mrs. King. One of the 
dear ones who had been present on the
former occasions, was sadly missed, and 
some tears were visible when the fact was 
alluded to, but we all know and realize 
that Sister Howard has only passed to a 
higher position and therefore we rejoice in
the midst of our mourning that she has
reached the spirit world where many
of our loved ones are waiting.
	Mrs. Woodmansee’s rooms were prettily
decorated with flowers and vines, and the
day was a charming one.
	The guests present were Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne, Helen
M. Whitney, Emmeline B. Wells, Fewson
Smith, Maggie Alford, Louisa Spencer,
Elizabeth Mc Farlane, Kate Brockbank,
Maggie Young, Julia C. Howe,Lula Greene
Richards, Emily H. Woodmansee (the
efficent hostess) and the young ladies of
the house, three daughters, Gladys, Pearl,
Myrtle and niece Edith Ivins of St. G[-]orge;
the dining-room was cool and pleasant, the
trailing vines, at the east window made a
graceful background for the picture, when
the guests were seated. At each place 
was a double card addressed to the person
occupying the seat, and on one side an ap-
propriate quotation from the Book of
Psalms, (which Mrs. King loved so much)
and on the other the stanza versified by
Mrs. Woodmansee, so as to make the
souvenir in remembrance of both Mrs.
King and Mrs. Woodmansee. After the 
repast, which it is safe to say everyone en-
joyed, each one present paid a fitting tribute
to Mrs. King as a memorial of friendship
either by repeating one of her own verses
or a few words impromptu. A sonnet by
Mrs. King was read by Mrs. Wells.

I love thee st[-]l[-]! these words contain,
A language that the angels do rehearse,
Yes, yes ’tis written in the universe—
The hills and mountains do its truth proclaim,
The running brooks and all the mountain streams
The glorious sun with his effulgent beams;
The ambrosial air, the flowers sweet perfume;
The song of birds, the stars that do illume;
And ah! the silver moon, the queen of night,
On which the lover’s mind doth so delight—
All these proclaim with never failing thrill
To the responsive soul, I love thee still.

	After repairing to the parlor again Mrs.
Wells read each of the souvenirs for the
benefit of all,and ice cream and sweetmeats
were served, when all joined in singing
“O, my Father thou that dwellest,” and a 
benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young. During the afternoon many 
beloved ones who have passed away were 
remembered and their virtues alluded to

[Column 2]
and the sweet friendship recognized, among
these departed veterans were Mother
Whitney, Vilate Kimball, Eliza R. Snow,
Mary Ann Young, Presendia L. Kimball,
Phebe Woodruff, Marinda Hyde, Sarepta
Heywood and Elizabeth Howard;
							E. B. W.


The lines below were also brought to the 
party as a memento and appear in print for 
the first time.

[Addressed to Sister Brockbank suggested by 
her silence.] 
Speak! speak, love I implore thee!

Yes! speak dear girl! and break the spell
	That seals those lips of thine! 
For truly, I do know full well
	There’s wealth within the mine!

That mental mine of hidden wealth 
	Unknown, and unexplor’d—
E’en by yourself—as if by stealth 
	You glance upon the hoard! 

I would not flatter—God forbid!
	Your faithful friend—am I
And you'll despise me if I did--
	I read that in your eye!—

That eye!—yes, yes 'tis there I read 
	There dwells a soul within
Pure—lofty—of heroic creed 
And undefil’d by sin;

Thy spirit’s noble—nothing low
	Dwells in thy heart or brain—
Oh! may the Lord preserve thee so 
	That you, these gifts retain.

They are more precious than the gold,
	Of Ophir—so renown’d!
And may they e’er thy form enfold 
	And thy brow with them be crown'd 

Then trust me, you will walk the earth 
	A Priestess, and a Queen! 
And all will read your noble birth
	By your regal step and mein;

For virtue, is a woman’s crown,
	Her laurel’d diadem!
And wearing that,—is full renown 
	With Angels—God—and men.

You are but starting in the way, 
	Of life's untrodden road,
Oh! may your strength be as your day 
	Of whatever weight the load.

I love you! yes I do admire 
	The germ I see in you!
Oh! may your soul by God’s own power,
	Be lighted up anew!

Yes daily lighted up, that you 
	May see where darkness reigns,
And by its light your lamp renew,
	And heal your woes and pains;

Then will your heart and mind be free 
	With Heaven’s peculiar food,
And by God's spirit you'llbe led 
	To an eternal good.

And then where’er we hear your voice
	In low angelic tone 
Your friends will listen and rejoice 
	And feel love makes us one!
			HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.
August 18th, 1864.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
thirteenth ward asembly rooms June 20th,
1893. Vice-President E. Mc Farlane in
the chair. Opened by singing “Help the


working women.” Prayer offered by
Frances Smith. Singing "O come, come
away.” Roll called, minutes of previous
meeting omitted. Phebe C. Young was
called upon, she spoke of the portentious
times, also of the many Fairs there had
been even so far back as the days of the
Egyptians and the pryamids, also in
Jerusalem—London and our own great
Fair of today. Maggie Bassett then sang a
song, entitled ‘‘The Bridge of Sighs.”
Doctor M. P. Hughes Cannon felt to en-
courage the cause of suffrage, knew that
women were a great bulwark to the nation
and that all knowledge, would benefit wo-
mankind. Vice President A. W. Eardley
spoke of her visit to the World’s Fair and
of the Woman’s Congress which was held
there.
	M. L. Morris and L  G. Richards each
made a few encouraging remarks. Meet-
ing stood adjourned until the third Tues-
day in July.
			MAGGIE BASSETT, Sec.


A FAITHFUL SISTER.

Dear Editor:—
	THINKING a few lines from this out of
the way place might be of interest to your
many readers, we take pleasure in mention-
ing Sister Polly Meecham our beloved
president who is very dear to us all, she
was struck with paralysis on the 11th of
June which caused her to be unconscious
for some time and to lose the use of her
left side, but by the faith and untiring
efforts of children and friends, she has so
far recovered that she can walk and is able
to sit up most of the day. We have held
our meetings at her house ever since her
inability to attend meeting. Our Relief
Society is in good condition. Our meet-
ings have been presided over by her
Counselors since her affliction. Sister
Meecham is a good woman and has been
faithful in the discharge of her duty, and
we all sympathize with her. We had a
special meeting at her residence June 20th,
Sister Wilmerth East from Arizona, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of St. Joseph
Stake, addressed us in her kind and moth-
erly way, gave us many good instructions.
Several of our other sisters made excellent
remarks. We had a time of rejoicing that
will long be remembered with pleasure.
			L. M. BOREN, Sec.


WHO MOTHER GOOSE WAS.
Mother Goose’s maiden name was
Eliz’th Foster,she was born in Charlestown
Massachusetts,in the year 1635 and married
Isaac Goose of Boston she was his
second mate and began her maternal life as
stepmother to ten children, she added six
more to that number, think of it! Sixteen
goslings to one goose, is it any wonder that
she pours out her feelings in the following
lines,
“There was an old woman who lived in a shoe.
She had so many children she didn’t know what
to do?’’
Yet her family cares sat lightly upon her,
and she survived father Goose many years.
Still she staid by her mate and led and fed
her flock until they were able to swim by
themselves. One of her daughters married
Thomas Fleet and she sang from morning
’till night, “Up stairs and down stairs and
in my ladies’ chamber etc.’’


So Thomas Fleet listened to her songs as
she sat in her arm chair, and printed and
sold them. Not Homer or Shakespere is
so sure of an immortal fame as mother
Goose. The love for her melodies are
everywhere held for their freedom from
every thing corrupt or to mislead the in-
fantile mind. But they are full of
practical wisdom, her name is one of the
brightest jewels which adorns the old South.
Let us hope a statue will  be erected  to the
memorable old lady’s memory.
						M.  A.  T.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				191


[Column 1]
WAR OF THE REVOLUTION.

	THE Revolutionary War and the causes 
that led up to it.
	In handling this subject I shall be com-
pelled to quote largely from Ridpath whose
history I have been studying and whose
language explains perfectly what I wish to
tell. The war of American Independence
was an event of vast moment, affecting the
destiny of all nations. The question de-
cided by the conflict was this, whether the
English colonies in America becoming
sovereign should govern themselves or be
ruled as dependencies of a European Mon-
archy. The result has been the grandest
and most promising example of a Republi-
can government in the history of the
world. It is of the first importance to
understand the causes of the war. The
most general cause of the American Revo-
lution was the right of arbitrary govern-
ment claimed by Great Britian and denied
by the colonies. The question began to be
openly discussed about the time of the
treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748. But there
were also many subordinate causes. First
of these was the influence of France which
was constantly exerted so as to excite a
spirit of resistance in the colonies. It was
the theory of France that by giving up
Canada on the North the English colonies
would become so strong as to renounce
their allegiance to the Crown. England
feared such a result. More than once it
was proposed in Parliament to recede Can-
ada to France in order to check the growth
of the American states. Another cause
leading to the Revolution was found in the
natural disposition and inherited character
of the colonies. They were for the most
part Republicans in politics and dissenters
in religion. The people of England were
monarchists and High-Churchmen. The
colonists had never seen a king; their deal-
ings with the royal officers had been such
as to engender a dislike for monarchial in-
stitutions. The growth of public opinion
in the colonies tended to independence.
The more advanced thinkers came to be-
lieve that a complete separation from Eng-
land was not only possible but desirable.
	As early as 1755 John Adams then a
young school teacher in Connecticut wrote
in his diary “In another century all Europe
will not be able to subdue us.” Such
opinions were at first expressed in private,
then by hints in pamphlets and newspapers,
and at last publicly and everywhere.
Another cause of the conflict with the
mother country was found in the personal
character of the king. George third, who
ascended the English throne in 1760 was a
stubborn, stupid, thick-headed man in
whose mind the notion of human rights
was entirely wanting. His reign of sixty
years was as odious as it was long. His
ministers were for the most part men as

[Column 2]
incompetent and illiberal as himself. With
such a king and such a ministry it was not
likely that the descendants of the Pilgrims
would get on smoothly. The more im-
mediate cause of the Revolution was the
passage by Parliament of a number of acts
destructive of colonial liberty. The subject
of this unjust legislation which extended
over a period of twelve years just preced-
ing the war, was the question of taxation.
The American colonies claimed the full
right of the Englishman. With good rea-
son it was urged that the general assemblies
of colonies, held the same relation to the
American people as did the House of
Commons to the people of England. The
English ministers replied that Parliament
and not the colonial assemblies was the
proper body to vote taxes in any and all
parts of the British empire. It is now
proper to notice the several acts which the
colonies complained of and resisted. The
first of these was the Importation Act
passed in 1733 by which exorbitant duties
were laid on all sugar, molasses, and rum
imported into the colonies. In 1750 it was
further enacted that iron works should not
be erected in America. The manufacture
of steel was especially forbidden and the
felling of pines outside of inclosures was
interdicted. All of these laws were
deemed as unjust and tyrannical. In 1761
a strenuous effort was made to enforce the
Importation Act and already there were
hints of resistance by force of arms. In
1763 at a great town meeting Samuel
Adams made a powerful argument showing
conclusively, that under the British con-
stitution taxation and representation were
inseparable. The year 1764 witnessed the
most formal declaration of the purpose of
Parliament to tax the colonies. Mr.Grenville
was now prime minister, on the tenth of
March a resolution was adopted by the
House of Commons declaring that it would
be proper to charge certain stamp duties on
the American colonies. The news having
been carried to America universal excite-
ment and indignation prevailed. Political
meetings became the order of the day
formal remonstrances were addressed to
the king and the two houses of Parliament,
and agents were appointed and sent to
London in the hope of preventing the
passage of the law. A new turn was now
given to the controversy. Through the
French and Indian War just concluded
Great Britian had incurred a heavy debt
which the ministers said ought to be borne
by the colonies
	The Americans replied that England
ought to defend her colonies, that in the
prosecution of the war the colonies had
aided Great Britian as much as Great
Britian had aided them, yet it was not the
payment of money which they dreaded but
the surrender of their liberties. In March
1765 Parliament no longer guided by the
counsels of Pitt passed the celebrated
Stamp Act. “The sun of American liberty
has set, wrote Benjamin Franklin to a
friend at home. The provisions of the
Stamp Act were briefly these. Every note,
land-deed, mortgage, lease, license, and
legal document of whatever sort required in
the colonies, should after the first day of the
following November be executed on paper
bearing an English stamp. This stamped
paper was to be furnished by the British
Government, and for each sheet the colonists
were required to pay a sum varying accord-
ing to the nature of the document from

[Column 3]
three pence to six pound sterling. Every
colonial pamphlet, almanac, and newspaper
was required to be printed on paper of the
same sort. The value of the stamps in
this case ranging from a half penny to  a
fourpence. Every advertisement was taxed
two shillings. No contract should be of
any binding force, unless written on paper
bearing the royal stamp. The news of the
hateful act, swept over America like a
thunder cloud. The people were at first
grief stricken, then indignant; then wrath-
ful. The muffled bells of Philadelphia and
Boston rang a funeral peal and the people
said it was the death knell of liberty. The
general assemblies were slow to move, as
there were many loyalists among the mem-
bers and the governors held their offices by
appointment of the king, but the younger
representatives hot-headed as well as patri-
otic did not hesitate to express their senti-
ments. In the Virginia House of Burgesses 
there was a memorable scene. Patrick
Henry a young member from Louisa coun-
ty waited for older men to lead in the
opposition to Parliament, but they failing to
do so, he in his passionate way, snatched a
blank leaf out of an old law book and
hastily drew up a series of fiery resolutions,
declaring that the Virginians were English-
men with English rights; and had the same
rights to vote their own taxes as had the
English. A violent debate ensued in
which the Patriots had the best of the
argument. It was a moment of intense
interest. Two future presidents were in
the audience, Washington and Thomas
Jefferson. The eloquent and indignant
orator said "Tarquin and Caesar had each
his Brutus, Charles First had his Cromwell
—Treason; Treason! shouted the speaker
which was echoed by the terrified loyalists
springing to their feet and George third
may profit by their example continued,
Henry adding as he took his seat. If that
be treason make the most of it. The reso-
lutions were put to the house and carried
and similar resolutions were adopted by the
assemblies of New York and Massachusetts,
in the latter state before the action of
Virginia was known. At Boston, James
Otis successfully agitated the question of an
American Congress nine of the colonies
appointed delegates, and on the seventh of
October the first colonial congress assembled
at New York. A Declaration of Rights
was adopted setting forth in unmistakable
terms that the American colonists could not,
and would not be taxed but by their own
representatives. At the same time a manly
petition professing loyalty and praying for
a more just and humane policy toward his
American subjects was directed to the king.
During the summer great quantities of the
stamped paper had been sent to America
which was destroyed or sent back to Eng-
land. In Connecticut the stamp officer was
threatened with hanging. The first of
November came and was kept as a day of
mourning. Stores were closed, flags hung
at half mast, bells were tolled etc., legal
business was entirely suspended, court
houses were closed, society was at a stand-
still, not even a marriage license could be
legally issued. By and by the offices were
opened and business went on as before but
was not transacted with stamped paper.
	(To be Continued.)


Verily, hypocrits sink into a lower abyss
than any other sinner.—Mohammed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


R. S. REPORT.

P. A. CACHE STAKE.

Editor Woman’s Exponent.
	Thinking a few items in regard to our 
Primary work in this county might be ap-
preciated by your many readers, I will in-
form you as accurately as possible in regard
to the condition in this Stake. We have
just finished holding our annual District
Conferences. The first was held in Logan
embracing nine wards, over four hundred
children were in attendance. Next Con-
ference was held in Hyrum with good atten-
dance, in fact there was a good attendance
at all the conferences. We held one also
in Paradise, in Wellsville, in Mendon, in
Smithfield, in Richmond and Newton,
Sister Lillie T. Freeze of the Territorial
board, and Sister Aurelia Rogers of Farm-
ington, President of the Primaries were
with us, and attended all our meetings.
The children were well prepared at each
conference and acquitted themselves very
creditably. The attendance of boys was
not as large as it would have been, had it
not been a busy season for them but in the
eight conferences we met five hundred, and
one thousand and fifty-eight girls, making
a total of eighteen hundred and eight child-
ren. We have thirty associations in Cache
Stake, with an enrollment of about two
thousand three hundred and seventy-one.
I have not the exact number but this is
as near as I can get at present. The usual
attendance is good in all the wards. We
hold district conferences every year, and
visit the annual meeting each ward as far
as possible. We also have Fairs held every
year, and the work of children both boys
and girls is very creditable.
	Much credit is due the officers of the dif-
ferent associations. We have a band of
able energetic women who are using their
time and talent freely, for the improve-
ment of the children of Zion, and these
children are showing great improvement
in their manner, and their morals are not
neglected. Our exercises are about the
same as in other Stakes but we are always
on the alert for any good thing which will
help along the good work. Our President
Sister Jane E. Molen is an indefatigable
worker, and under her influence things are
sure to prosper. Siseer Freeze always has
good things to say to us, and of us, and the
children in this Stake expect her at their
yearly conference, as she has endeared her-
self to them all. We hope next year to
have Sister Felt visit us as she has never
been able to favor us so far with a visit.
One of the pleasant features of our associ-
ations is the number of young girls and
boys who have almost grown up in the as-
sociation, who still continue in them, and
aid the officers in their work, by so doing
they are a power among the small ones, and
a help almost beyond comprehension and
the officers appreciate them. Hoping the
associations in Zion may continue in
growth and good works. I remain a Pri-
mary worker,
                         MATTIE BLAIR HANSON,
Logan, Utah.


PRIMARY AT WALLSBURG.

	OUR association is in a flourishing con-
dition, our dear President Sister Sarah
Glenn is alive to her duty in training the
children in the principles of the Gospel.


We had a nice program June 1st, in honor
of the birthday of our late esteemed Presi-
dent Brigham Young, well rendered; our
program consisted of a lecture from the
Book of Mormon, historical sketch of the
organization and benefits of the Primary
Association, recitations, songs, dialogues,
questions and answers.
	A brief history of President Brigham
Young with poetry composed for the oc-
casion. We had a good time the parents
were astonished at what their children had
learned in the Primary.
				IDA BOREN, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	If industry is no more than a habit, it is
at least an excellent one.

	MRS. LAURA ORMISTON CHANT ad-
dressed an enthusiastic audience at Parsons,
Kan., on June 24, and preached twice on
the following Sunday.

	THE statue of Queen Victoria, the work
of Princess Beatrice, the youngest daughter
of the Queen, has been highly commended
for its artistic merit. It was unveiled by
the Queen in person, June 28, in Kensing-
ton Gardens.

	MRS. HELEN M. GOUGAR  has been
elected a member of the Board of Trustees
of Hillsdale College, Michigan, of which
institution she is a graduate. She has al-
so been made President of the Board of
Women Commissioners who are to raise
$50,000 with which to endow two chairs to
be filled by women who are to sit with the
faculty clothed with powers equal to the
male professors.

	IT is stated that Mrs. Palmer has allowed
her salary to accumulate until it is about
$7,000 and the bill for this she will now
present on request of the treasury depart-
ment so that it may be paid in the Isabella
quarter dollar coins. The issue of these is
only $10,000 and Mrs. Palmer takes this
course on behalf of the Board of Lady
Managers so as to keep the coins from be-
coming speculative property on the part of
outsiders.

	AT the annual meeting of the Hampden
County W. C. T. U. at Chicopee, recently,
a resolution against the Sunday opening of
the Columbian Fair was adopted. Mrs.
Beesie Blodgett entered a vigorous pro-
test. She thought she could do more for
Christ by going to the World’s Fair on
Sunday and taking 500 sinners with her,
than she could by staying away and keeping
the sinning 500 away. When the vote was
taken, Mrs. Blodgett was the only one who
opposed the resolution.

	THE first general meeting of women
lawyers ever held will occur in Chicago,
Aug. 3, 4 and 5 next, in the Isabella club-
house, under the auspices of the law de-
partment of the Queen Isabella Association.
There will be papers, discussions and con-
ference meeting, the object being to pro-
mote acquaintance among those interested
in the practical work of the profession.
All women in the United States, and else-
where, who have been admitted to the bar
of a court of record, or graduated from a
law school, are especially invited to be
present. Miss Ellen A. Martin, of No.
84 LaSalle Street, Chicago, is chairman of
the committee on arrangements.—Ex.


HE that would make real progress in
knowledge must dedicate his age as well as
youth, the latter growth as well as the
first fruits, at the altar of truth.—Berkeley.


OBITUARIES.
DIED at Oakley Cassia Co. Idaho, April 17th,
of consumption; Louisa Augusta Smith, eldest
child of John L. Smith and Julia Haight Smith,
born August 10, 1880, at Lublett Creek Idaho.
Aged twelve years four months and seven days.
Sister Louisa was a very examplary child, ever
thoughtful and kind at home, a member of Sab-
bath School and Primary Association, she loved
to read and took much pleasure reading the
Juvenile Instructor, which she enjoyed even dur-
ing her last moments.
All join her parents in mourning the loss of
the dear child. May her rest and sleep be sweet.
Editor Exponent:
IT is with feelings of sadness we have been
called to part with one of our sisters. Sister
Mary Butters departed this life April 17th, 1893,
aged seventy-three years,five months and fourteen
days She was born at Elling Green, Derehma,
Norfolk, England. Emigrated to Utah with her
family in 1869; she was a faithful sister and in
losing her we have lost one of the most energetic
of our teachers. She was always willing and
ready to assist any one both in sickness and
health when called on, when for her own health's
sake it would have been wise to have refused.
She left Morgan to visit her daughter, Mrs.
Culmer S. L. City and attend the dedication of
the Temple, but was taken sick and never had
that privilege. She leaves several children and
grand children to mourn her loss, her husband
having preceded her several years.
At the resurrection morning,
We shall all appear as one;
Oh! what robes of bright adorning
Will the righteous then put on.
S. A. RAWLE Cor. Sec.
Morgan City, May 1, 1893.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the memory of Esther Lenora Tyler wife of
Robert M. Tyler, who died February 15th, 1893,
in Alpine, Apache Co. Arizona. She was the
daughter of Sylvester H.and Roseltha M. Pearce.
She was born in Provo, Utah, September 1st 1868.
She was the mother of five children four of whom
survive her. The last an infant daughter is
sleeping by her side.
Sister Tyler was a true wife and mother and a
faithful Latterday Saint and was a member of the
Relief Society during her residence here.
Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister, therefore
be it,
Resolved, that in her death we the members of
the Relief Society recognize the loss of a faithful
co-laborer. 
Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family.
Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the sorrowing family, a copy
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and a copy
be placed upon the record of the Relief Society.
JANE NOBLE, President. 
VIOLA M. HATCH, Sec.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House[-]

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.		9

VOL. 22		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST I, 1893. No.2.


CONTENTS:
	Passing Thoughts—Camelia. W. S. A. Spring-
ville—Ellen Jakeman. Women—E. H. Lyon.
Solving a Problem—Zion’s Convert. Notes and
News. R. S. Reports. War of the Revolution.
Miscellaneous. Obituaries.
	Editorial:—Editorial Notes.  Woman’s Silver
Meeting
	Poetry:—Beauties of Nature—E. B. W. Lines
Written on a Fly Leaf of a Doctrine Covenants—
E. J. The Eyes That Cannot weep—Ella Higgin-
son. Joseph Temple Bennett—Hope. An Old,
Old Rhyme. To Little Templeton Bennett—Mrs.
S. Stock


BEAUTIES OF NATURE.

Down in the meadows, where the cowslips spring,
	And the sweet clover breath is in the air,
There where the thrush and blue bird sweetly sing,
	Dame Nature in her robes so wondrous fair,
Holds her communion with the regal night,
	And blushes in the dawn of early light.

What picture hath the artist ever drawn
	That could compare in loveliness and grace
With nature in her rudest, wildest form,
	No matter in what climate, time, or place,
So skillfully is ev’ry figure wrought,
	So delicate with feeling is it fraught.

In grove, and field, and vale, in forest glade,
	On snowy heights, where man may scarcely tread,
On flow’r, or shrub, and ev’ry grassy blade
	That lifts from earth its tiny, modest head,
In coral reef, or sea beach shining sand,
	We see the seal of an Almighty hand.

I cannot tell how greatly I delight
	In all the beauties of the earth and heaven;
How ardently I reverence the light
	Which our good Father has so wisely given;
The sun and moon, and all the stars that shine
	With the effulgence of a power divine.

These speak to us in language most sublime,
	And most exalting to the human soul;
And all the changes of the hand of time,
	Which in their order and their seasons roll,
Bespeak the presence of a God of love,
	And grandly all the forces seem to move.

Harmonious in its sphere each sweeps along
	In measured time and method, year by year,
And nature’s voices in triumphant song,
	Ring out their echoes sweet, distinct and clear,
That linger ‘mong the "everlasting hills,"
	Or dance to rhythm in the sparkling rills.

Music in which the heavens might rejoice,
	So gifted and so rapturous the lay,
For nature with a universal voice
	Unites to celebrate each new born day;
And thus from morn to eve, and eve to morn,
	All beauty and all grace the earth adorn.

So we admire, adore, and pass along,
	Yet linger most where sweetest flow’rs are strewn,
And while we mingle in the busy throng
	We often fell "twere good to be alone"
To meditate in Nature’s haunts apart,
	In silence and humility of heart.

O, how we yearn to understand still more
	The mysteries that nature hath conceal’d;
The knowledge of her science—hidden lore,
	Which unto none of us has been reveal’d;
Nor will it be till we have proved how true,
	Our trust has been in what we came to do.
							E. B. W.


PASSING THOUGHTS.
	THE LAKE.—During the past month of
pleasure seeking and patriotism—not that
we are not patriotic in other months but
July always calls forth a little extra amount
of that quality—the world seems so sleepy
and weary and discontented after the ex-
citement of the noisy holidays are over that
every one who can seeks a change and rest.
This is the time when the leisure class seek
the cooler air of the mountain glades or sea
side villages, spending the greater part of
their time swinging in hammocks and read-
ing novels only indulging in such pastimes
as require little or no exertion. No doubt
the rest thus taken refreshes and revigorates
to such an extent that the cares of the
busy season are much more easily borne.
Would it were within the means and power
of every one to indulge in a quiet restful
change during the hot months, but unfor-
tunately it is not yet, here in Utah we need
not murmur on that account for at our very
doors lie the pleasure aud the enjoyment
others go miles to seek. Within a half
hour’s ride is our beautiful lake—the pride
of our territory. A favorite spot for artists,
where the laughing waves beat a steady
solemn dirge against the shores of its
mountainous islands, and the dark swaying
waters cause the gleams from the setting
sun to glow in crimson and green and gold
in the sky above and throw its glorious
colors on the purple hills beyond. A
blessed spot for the health seeker, where a
bath in the warm salt waters gives to the
body new life and invigorates one beyond
descrlption, while to the young who seek
only an hour’s pleasure,there with the bath
and the delights of the magnificent pavilion
there is nothing to be desired. Without
wishing to give the impression that I am
advertising a place I should like to simply
rave over our new resort Saltair, but as the
EXPONENT is not given much to raving, I
suppose I must subdue myself and simply
declare for my own part that the few
journeys out there have caused me to have
such an affection for the place that I would
be a very frequent visitor, and I am so
proud to think that Salt Lake can claim a
resort of such magnificence and beauty.
	Of course the scenery from any point
near the lake is beautiful, the air is refresh-
ing and the bathing delightful, yet each one
must choose for himself how, when and
where he can best eujoy the summer
months, for my own part and I wish all
Utah felt the same, I would say to my
friends, Stay at home and spend your
spare time and spare means among your
own people and enjoy the health giving
pleasures of your own territory In prefer-
ence to seeking them abroad.
	As for Saltair, too much cannot be said.
It far surpasses all one can imagine of a
seaside pavilion. I would not attempt to
describe it, to do so without illustrations
would be absurd.  It is enough to say that
it is large enough to accommodate any
crowd the territory might choose to gather
there. Its conveniences both for comfort
and pleasure are ample and complete, it is
perfectly free from every unpleasant or low
association, and a high toned and superior
air pervades it at all times to such an ex-
tent, that one has a perfect feeling of se-
curity even when alone among crowds of
unknown persons.
	I believe my expressions are but an echo
of what hundreds of others feel concerning
our new and fine resort, for on every hand
one hears only words of praise for the
projectors,and admiration for the picturesque
pavilion which if equaled in any land is
certainly not surpassed.

	MOTHER GOOSE AGAIN.—I suppose it was
while crooning some lullaby to my little
baby that the question arose in my mind
about Mother Goose and I ventured to ask
the EXPONENT readers who she was. My
question has been answered both from the
North and the South, and I laugh at my
own ignorance. I, a woman of New Eng-
land pedigree, who always have loved those
nursery rhymes not to know that the author
was from dear old Boston. The last EX
PONENT had a very interesting account of
Mother Goose from a Provo friend and now
comes another description from Idaho.
The two are so similar that we need not
publish the latter. Both tell that no monu-
ment or stone marks the resting place of
the dear old soul, though it is in the old
south cemetery in Boston near the grave of
Paul Revere. If times were not so hard
that every effort must be exerted for the
living, I think a subscription among the
world’s children for a monument to “Mother
Goose" would be quite a popular idea, but
Boston who claims her both in life and in
death would surely claim the privilege of
erecting it, though she might not scorn
assistance from other parts.

	A QUIETY CITY:—It was a holiday and I
knew all the streets would be deserted and
the houses closed and people would leave
the heated city to seek a change and rest
the quiet of the city was almost oppressive
no sounds from the engines of the factories,
no hammering on the blacksmith’s anvil,no
fire in the furnace,no tradesman’s noisy call,
everything was quiet as the sabbath and
the thought seized me to wander away from
home myself; my feet did not carry me
however among the gathering crowd of
pleasure seekers but far away on the hill-
side to the sleeping city of throbless hearts
and folded hands. One often calls on
friends and in a few moments of conversa-
tion and association many things are learned
but when one quietly and alone visits the
graves of those we loved, there is a sweet
communion of souls. In memory only do
they live, but at these sacred spots their
resting places, they nearer seem.
	Oh,how many are there now where only a
few short years agone not one dearly loved
one lay.
	I mark to day so many places as I pass
through winding paths and am almost start-
led at times as I unexpectedly behold the
white stone on my way the name of some old
friend. I have stood by the grave of my
grand, old father and in my mind his
mighty form and benign countenance


almost translucent seemed to rise before me.
I could feel the pressure of his soft hand 
and the warmth of his loving kiss, could
hear his gentle word of admonition and
blessing, just as in life he was wont to do.
	We pause and recall at each dear spot,
some memory of the loved one here but one
little grave far beyond like a magnet draws 
us on past sisters', children, past cherished
friends, and sisters fondly loved.  That one 
little grave took away all fear or death and
brought heaven very near.  It is the tie
between heaven and earth, all that lies here
is so pure and lovely, and the clasp of the
baby arms about my neck and the unspoken
thoughts in the lovely eyes are brought
back fresh before me.  Dear little baby!
God took you home to him but we claim
you still, to us you cannot die.  Was I
irritable and cross today, have I been unkind
and unreasonable, oh, how selfish I seem
to myself, how reproved! now I wonder if
she knew, my little one, what a discontented
perturbed spirit I had this morning, but I 
am better now, the tears I shed o'er your
little grave have done me good, I know
you await me and I hope to live that I may
see you once again; how mean we seem to
ourselves, how silly to be worried over the 
trifling everyday annoyances, that can't we
live above it all.  The memory of our dead
and the thought that may be they know
our troubles ought to make life easier and
and better.  'Tis hard to leave this little 
spot but time is passing and one cannot
always mourn, so backward we turn stopping 
now and again where a familiar name meets
the eye nor must we pass on this day, the
grave of a dear brother whose death just 
twenty one years ago so shocked and
grieved us.  A bright happy lad of twelve
stricken to death with the weapon in his
 own hands.  The thought of his death
makes me long for a voice of thunder to
warn the youth and those who idly toy 
with fire arms.  A boy beloved by all who 
knew him, obedient, unselfish and gentle,
stricken without a moment's warning by
the accidental discharge of an old weapon
some boys had found, and thought this July
holiday a fitting time to make a noise and 
disturbance.  What a shock to his play-
mates who stood around him, what a shock
to his loved ones at home. Gone, yes gone
forever, no more sweet loved ones only in 
memory to meet you.  Your graves are a
shrine and to them we bring our offerings
of love, and unfold our sorrows and
thoughts and fancies and some times our
souls are better for coming where you rest.
Lessons and truths you teach us for we
mark the spot where one loved one lies,
who sacrificed his life that others might
live, and from over the sea his body was
brought to be laid by the side of his noble
mother, and now as we go there is a little
grave just newly made, the flowers scarcely
withered, a little suffering soul laid down
his cross, and found a sweet resting 
place. Good night, the shadows gather
fast and musings and dreamings must give
place to realities.  
	CAMELIA.


WOMANS EXPONENT


W. S. A. SPRINGVILLE.

	THE suffrage association of Springville
met in regular session on the 22nd of June,
1893, Prest, Sarah A. Boyer in the chair.
	After the opening exercises; Mrs. Ellen
Jakeman, who was present by special invita-


tion addressed the meeting for an hour.  Her
subject was “Suffrage” considered under
the following heads.
	Definition, literal and political sense;
claims for it, hereditary, constitutional,
governmental responsibility, influence-
social-moral and political, the training of
her children, in defense of right,-as wage
earners’ responsible beings; necessity for
purification of ballot box, honest and
economical administration of all depart-
ments of government, general improve-
ment, higher civilization.
	Mrs. Carrie Smith of Logan being
present as a visitor was invited to address
the meeting. Her life seems to have been
flowing in very pleasant channels, for she
expressed it as her opinion that women
enjoyed at the present more rights than
they made a proper use of. Thought it
was all right for women to vote if they
wished, but objected to their holding office.
Still admitted that she was not well posted
on the subject, having given her time and
attention outside of her duties as a mother
to the study of her religion. Was heartily
in favor of anything that would advance
the well being of either men or women.
	Mrs. Snow Young, also of Logan
addressed the meeting for a few moments,
said: “show me the women of a nation and
I will tell you what the men are, tell me
the characters of the women and I will tell
you the moral character of the men.” She
earnestly desired the success of suffrage.
She said many other pleasant and encourag-
ing things.
	Mrs. Sorensen, Bishop Harmer, John
S. Boyer Sen, and Mr. Waite, addressed
the audience. The latter gentlemen
digressed from the subject to eulogize Prest.
Boyer, which was heartily coincided in by
all suffragists present, who are acquainted
with her long and faithful labors in that
direction.
	The speeches were all worth recording,
but I have some modesty about taking
your space.
	On the following Sunday evening
Bishop John E. Booth, who had been
detained from the suffrage meeting by
business, gave the expected lecture. His
subject was the "Property rights of
Women,” handled in his usual masterly
style, to the edification of a large audience.
		ELLEN JAKEMAN.


LANGUAGE IN SEALING WAX.

	AN epistle conveying a proposal of mar-
riage must be sealed with white wax,
while accepted lovers may use ruby color.
Jealousy is expressed by yellow wax, blue
implies constancy and brown, melancholy,
green suggests hope, and a paler shade of
green conveys reproof.  A letter of con-
dolence should bear a violet seal in reply
to the black wax intimating death, and the
ordinary scarlet hue is still used for business.
Invitations to dinner display chocolate
seals, gushing young ladies fasten their
confidences with pink, and gray is the
general tint for letters to ordinary
acquaintances.
	VISITORS at the World’s Fair will see
there the largest cannon ever forged. It
is not an American gun, however, but a
German one, from the factory of the great
Herr Krupp. It weighs 124 tons.


WOMAN.

	WOMAN, the master-piece, the finishing
touch of the Almighty. See her on the
sixth day of creation walking beside of
that noble being man, who was formed in
the image of his Maker. Not to be his
slave, nor to humor his every whim, but
his helpmeet and confident; to be the sharer
of his joys and sorrows. His equal in all
save physical strength. For centuries she
has played a subordinate part, but, as
civilization advances the natural rights of
woman will be more and more recognized
until each sex will stand equal before the
law, and finally her superiority in many
respects will be granted and she will reap
the rewards of all the advantage it brings.
Let us behold her as she enters upon mar-
ried life. Young, full of hope and ambition.
She gives herself freely to the man of her
choice believing him to be noble, good,
virtuous and true. He is her ideal, almost
her world. Her nature is loving, trusting
and confiding. In a year perhaps she be-
comes a mother. What a responsibility! 
	No matter what the husband and father
may prove to be, her little one in a few
short months begins to watch her every
look and action and soon learns to imitate.
Then as a mother to whom children are
confided, let her look well to it that she ap-
preciates, understands, and observes the
duties she has assumed. Her children are
her jewels. What a loving yet laborious
task she has to perform! Over half her
life is spent in rearing and caring for her
children, and what a debt of gratitude they
owe her. How she hopes and prays for
their welfare, that they may become useful
men and women. Even among her own
children how different are their dispositions.
	How careful she should be of the exam-
ple she sets before them. Once the famous
Garibaldi made the remark “Give me the
mothers of a nation to educate and you may
do what you like with the boys.”
	All women are not destined it would seem
to become wives and mothers, but, in this
day when so many avenues are open which
in the past were confined to men, it is to
her interest to improve her mind, broaden
her ideas, become more intelligent that she
may stand upon an equal footing with her
brother man, as a lawyer, physician etc. or
any other vocation she may choose to pur-
sue and the time will eventually come when
she will receive the same remuneration for
her labor. At the present time the
World’s Fair is demonstrating to all nations
what woman has and can do. Her future
prospect is bright. There is every thing to
encourage her to widen her sphere of action,
to more fully develop her mental faculties
that have lain dormant so long. The re-
sult will be shown in posterity.
	E. H. LYON.


Yale college was founded in 1700 under
the trusteeship of the ten principal minis-
ters of the colony of Connecticut, who each
contributed a gift of books. It was first 
established at Saybrook, but in 1716 was
removed to New Haven.  Among its early
patrons were Governor Yale, after whom
it was named, and Bishop Berkeley.  Of
its four faculties the medical was organized
in 1812, the theological in 1822, the legal in
1824 and the philosophical in 1847.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LINES WRITTEN ON THE FLY LEAF OF A
	DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS.

THIS book, I deemed, a fitting gift,
	From friend to friend on Christmas morn,
Since, through the light these pages hold
	Christ to men’s souls is newly born,
And when your eyes these pages scan,
	Though far or near, by land or sea,
’Midst worthier thoughts,I trust you’ll find,
	Time for a kindly thought of me.
	E.J.


“THE EYES THAT CANNOT WEEP”.

The saddest eyes are those that cannot weep;
	The loneliest breast the one that sobbeth not;
	The lips and mind that are most parched and
		hot
Are those that cannot pray, and cannot sleep;—
It is the silent grief that sinketh deep.
	To weep out sorrow is the common lot,—
	To weep it out and let it be forgot,—
But tears and sobs are after all but cheap,
We weep for worries, frets and trifling cares,
	For toys we’ve broken, and for hopes that were
And fancied woes of passing love affairs—
	But only One can ease the breast of her
Whose hurt for fruitless moans has gone too deep.
Pity, O God, the eyes that cannot weep.
	ELLA HIGGINSON.


JOSEPH TEMPLE BENNETT.

The king of kings was in a manger born.
Of every earthly power and glory shorn,
The humble shepherds and the wise men three,
Alone permitted Bethlehem’s Star to see.

And now we wonder why thou art so blest,
And if a mighty mission on thee rests, 
Dear liitle Joseph Temple why thy birth,
In God’s own Temple here upon the earth.

Even upon the Altar in the dreary world,
Where gospel truth was first to man unfurled,
To guide his wandering footsteps back again.
Through life’s hard,strong path of sin and pain.

Art thou a messenger from heaven sent,
To cry unto a wicked world repent,
To search amid the tares for the good wheat,
Then lay the garnered sheaf at the Christ’s feet.

If this thy Mission angel hands will guide,
And guard thy footsteps on the desert wild,
Will calm the stormy sea, the tempests breath,
And will deliver thee from chains and death.

We breathe a fervent blessing on thy head,
And pray that heaven’s light be round thee shed
May angels guard thy footsteps ever more,
And lead thee onward to the golden shore.
								Hope.


SOLVING A PROBLEM.

	SINCE we read in Holy Writ that God
made of one blood all nations of the earth
I would ask are we all equal? It would
seem that all are of one family: but are all
brothers and sisters equal? Oh no! Some
have greater intelligence than others, ac-
cordingly some are qualified to be teachers
while others are only learners, yet at the
same time those teachers are still progress-
ing, learning from a fountain of light and
intelligence greater truths to benefit the
human family. Well since this is the case
do we not feel to pay honor and respect to
those who are teaching us; and also feel
regret and shame when we sometimes make
a mistake through neglect or indifference.
Now I would ask is this pride? if so do we


inherit it naturally.  I ask this question
because I learn from the Book of Mormon
that pride is a fearful attribute. (Also in all
sacred writings.)
	We read that Jesus after His resurrection,
came to this continent, to teach this people
the laws of life and Salvation.  He taught
them the same laws that He gave to those
at Jerusalem, called Christ’s sermon on the
mount, recorded in Mathew, 5 &6 & 7
chapters.
	I feel satisfied in my mind that while we
apply our minds to this study of the laws
of God we do not allow pride to have any
place in us.  We are all as children learning
the lessons we so much need, and applying
them to practice.
	We find in the Book of Nephi (3 Nephi)
that this people were blessed in like manner;
for four generations passed away in
righteousness.  But the next generation was
affected by pride.  There came strife and
confusion with all their attendant train of
evils.  Wickedness then prevailed and
righteousness ceased to bear rule.
	Now in these days great knowledge is
being restored to the earth, and we know
that knowledge is power, we see this in’
electricity and also in steam.  Let us also
remember St. Paul’s word, who said,
“Knowledge puffeth up but charity :
edifieth.” This being the case, do not we
have great need of caution and care.
Strictly applying our minds to the laws
given in Christ’s Sermon on the mount.
Then we will live by the golden rule, and
do to others as we would that they should
do to you.  Let us therefore apply our
minds to wisdom; for it is written that:
“Her ways are pleasant and all her paths
are peace."  By observing these laws we
may keep our balance and not fall; for
remember it is written.  “Pride comes
before destruction, and a haughty spirit be-
fore a fall.”
	ZION'S CONVERT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER was ap-
pointed chairman of the section on care of
dependent and neglected children at the
recent International Congress of Charities
and Corrections at Chicago. Mrs. Spencer
also preached the Congress sermon on “The
Relation of the Church to Philanthropies
and Reform.”
	PRESIDENT CHENEY, of Bates College,
Lewiston, Me., in his baccalaureate address,
gave expression to a long-felt need when he
spoke last week for enlarged ideas and a
broad view of the possibilities of women.
	He argued for the presence of women on
the faculties of the colleges of the country.
Women on college faculties and on the
boards of trustees are needed in the interest
of male as well as female students.  Presi-
dent Cheney gave a timely word in its be-
half.—Ex.
	THE women of Kansas of all parties and
of no party have wisely left all differences
on other questions behind or out of sight,
while they work to secure the passage of
the suffrage amendment. The New York
World says, “They have organized in every
county, and it may be predicted they will
succeed,” They mean to succeed, as they
deserve to do.  The men of Kansas know
this, and they mean to see that the women
are not disappointed.—Ex.

[Column 2]
	DURING the World’s Congress on gov-
ernment, August 7—14, arrangements
have been made for six woman suffrage
meetings in the large halls, and in room 2
and 3, each seating 700 persons. Two of
these meetings will be in the morning, two
in the afternoon, and two in the evening.
	On Monday afternoon Rev. Anna Shaw
is announced; on Tuesday afternoon, in
the Hall of Columbus, Mrs. Lucy Stone
and Susan B. Anthony; on Wednesday
afternoon, in hall 3, Alice Stone Blackwell;
on Friday afternoon Mrs. Julia Ward Howe
Henry B. Blackwell, Rev. Ida C. Hultin,
and Samuel Gompers.—Ex.
	THE Federal Suffrage Association will
hold a Congress at Art Institute, Chicago,
August 9.  President Thomas Palmer,Hon.
C. C. Bonner, and Rev. Olympia Brown
have accepted invitations to deliver ad-
dresses.
	The New Cycle for June contains a full
report of the Federation Council of Wo-
men’s Clubs at the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, Chicago, May 18.
An important action was taken at this
meeting with reference to a “Federation
organ.” It was shown that while the
Federation had voted at a previous general
meeting to support The New Cycle as its
organ, the magazine has not been supported.
The last three numbers had been published
from the private fund of the editor, Mrs.
J.C. Croly, and unless capital was provided.
The New Cycle must suspend publication.
After lengthy discussion a committee con-
sisting of Mrs. Lindon W. Bates, Mrs.
Charlotte Emerson Brown and Mrs. J. C.
Croly was appointed to take charge of all
the interests of the magazine.  The com-
mittee was commissioned to issue two
thousand shares of stock at five dollars a
share, to be sold to clubs and club members.
As the organ of the Federation owned and
controlled thereby, The New Cycle will re-
sume publication in September.  Through
it, club documents and papers will be issued,
and reports of the work, methods and
anniversaries of local clubs will be given.
The Federation now numbers upwards of
three hundred local organizations, it
covers nearly every State in the Union, and
some abroad.—Ex.


THE FRENCH DICKENS.
	ALPHONSE DAUDET, the French Dickens,
as he is sometimes termed, is one of the
most striking figures in the world of Paris.
His fine head is enveloped in flowing locks
of jet black hair, which fall thickly on his
shoulders, and the lower part of his face,
the palor of which is in striking contrast
to his lustrous eyes, is likewise covered
with luxuriant mustaches and beard—in
short, an incarnation of the poet of
romance. With all this outward display of
Bohemianism, he has been happily “ranged”
these many years, and he finds in Mme.
Daudet a constant and valued helpmeet.
	Daudet was born at Nines in 1840, tried
school-teaching for a year, and then, sick
of the work, made his way to Paris, where
he arrived with a capital of 40 sous and a
bundle of poems. For these he was in
time fortunate enough to find a publisher.
“Les Amoureuses,” however, did not
foreshadow his fame, and it was not till he
left poetry for fiction that he became
known.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, - - - AUGUST 1,1893.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IT is a matter of regret that we have not
space this time for Rural England but hope
we may be excused, as we have many in-
teresting local matters that cannot be laid
over.

	THE 16th of July was the seventieth
birthday of one of our veteran sisters and
co-laborers in the Women’s Associations in 
Zion, Mrs. Margaret Steele, President of
the Relief Society of the First Ward in this
City.  Sister Steele was early connected
with the Retrenchment  Association in
which she labored several years faithfully
and efficiently, and we ought also to men-
tion that she has been a diligent agent for
the EXPONENT from its first issue.  On her
anniversary last month she received some
valuable gifts and a letter from her brother
W. A. Farquhar member of the City Coun-
cil of Glasgow and also a shipping merchant.
We wish the dear old lady many happy
returns of the day with health, peace and
happiness to enjoy the blessings of her well-
spent life.

	WE have received by courtesy of the
author, Elder Edward Stevenson, a copy of
the “Reminiscences of Joseph the Prophet.”
A cut of the author and of the prophet
Joseph, also of the Hill Cumorah and of
the angel delivering the golden plates to
the boy Prophet, some of the characters, etc.
also of Liberty and Carthage jails are
given in the book and are quite natural.
Elder Stevenson was well-acquainted
with the prophet and has given an au-
thentic account of what he was personally
conversant with.Therefore the book is 
thoroughly reliable.  It is for sale cheap
and Brother Stevenson has given away
many copies, he has agents in many
parts of the Territory.  It will be of great
interest to those who are not acquainted
with the history of the early days, as
well as those familiar with the subject.

	IN consequence of Dr. E. R. Shipp’s
sojourn in the east, she has suspended her
Obstetric School for the past year.  But she
has now returned after a systematic review
both in theoretical and practical work in the
Michigan University and Hospital, ready
to resume her labors of love in training
women for the responsibilities of nurses
and accoucheurs.  In addition to her own
ability and experience as a teacher, a num-
ber of other leading physicians have con-
sented to give occasional lectures to the
students upon chosen subjects; thus giving

[Column 2]
variety to the exercises, and securing for
the searchers after truth accurate and
correct knowledge in Obstetrics, and the
latest most improved methods of nursing
the sick.  We are assured that every effort
will be made to give satisfaction, and adapt
prices to the stringency of the times,
special reductions being made to societies
sending students.  Those contemplating
this course of study would do well to
communicate with Dr. Shipp at No. 18
Main St.  Salt Lake City.

	THE Old Folks Day July 18, was
fraught with real pleasure to those who
participated in the excursion. The day was
fine, the cars were clean, and conductors
pleasant, and the Committee were never in
better spirits. The choir sang as sweetly
as on any former occasion and the lemonade
buns and sweetmeats were as plentiful as
ever.  It was indeed a GALA DAY.  The
Ogden people came out in full force to
escort the company to Lester Park where,
tents, flags, banners, music and tables or-
namented with beautiful flowers and loaded
with the best of everything to refresh the
dear old people, and tempt their appetites
was prepared, and awaiting their coming;
and they were willingly and gladly served
by the people from the several wards in and
near Ogden.  Exercises were held in the
pavilion, and the day was thoroughly en-
joyed by all, the very oldest people receiv-
ing the most attention and the heartiest
congratulations.  It is a beautiful tribute to
pay to age, and teaches a useful lesson to
the younger people of the community.
	BY invitation of Sister Lucy B. Young,
widow of the late President Brigham
Young several of the Young family and
other friends, assembled at her handsome
new brick residence on Centre street on
Monday July 10, to congratulate her and
also to be present at the dedication of this
new home recently built.  Among the
guests was President Joseph F. Smith
whom Sister Young desired should offer
the dedicatory prayer,  President Smith
kindly consenting.  The prayer was earnest
eloquent and somewhat pathetic. Congratu-
lations from the assembled guests were
fervent and sincere, and some delightful
piano music helped to while away the
evening hours, also songs from Mrs.
Young’s daughter Mabel, and we must not
forget to mention a delicious dinner which
all present heartily enjoyed.  Sister Young
very much regretted however the absence
of several brethren and sisters whom she
had expected to have as guests.  It was an
interesting time, and we with her many
friends sincerely wish she may live long to
enjoy the delights, the peace and the
happiness of her pleasant home and sur-
roundings.


WOMAN’S SILVER MEETING.

	PURSUANT to a call for a mass meeting
published in the daily papers of this City
the meeting convened as per appointment
in the Salt Lake theatre Wednesday even-
ing July 26.  Long before the hour for
opening, crowds of people were waiting for
admittance, and when the doors were
thrown open the house was immediately
filled with eager, intelligent looking men
and women,though women largely predom-
inated.  The platform and boxes on each
side were handsomely draped with the stars
and stripes, and when the platform was
filled with the women of the Committee
[column 2]
﻿and their friends who came on by invitation
it presented quite a brilliant appearance.  A
large and elegant jar of long stemmed
hollyhocks and vases of sweet peas and
other flowers in season, added beauty and
attractiveness to the stage.
	Most of the Committee were without
hats or bonnets and wore lovely bouquets of
flowers.  It was not a dress parade occasion
however for the women were intent and
earnest as their countenances proved and
were only there for a noble purpose.
	Mrs. George A. Lowe Chairman of the
Committee who had signed the Call
tapped the table with her fan and signified
the house should come to order, by her re-
quest the orchestra Prof. Geo. Careless lead-
ing opened with inspiring music and the
audience were gratified.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was elected Chairman
and Mrs. Ellsworth Daggett, Secretary,  A
quartette composed of Mrs.  Seigel,  Mrs.
Woodrow,  Miss Jennings and Miss St.
John accompanied on the piano by Mrs.
T. J. Almy sang very effectively the song
“Hard times come again no more,’’ the
audience joining in the chorus.  Mrs. F. W.
Norris read very gracefully and in a clear
voice the the MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS.

To the Honorable Senators and Members of
	the House of Representatives:
	In the face of unparalleled disasters the
women of Utah, in mass meeting as-
sembled, appeal to your honorable bodies.
	We respectfully petition that at the ensuing
special session of Congress,   legislative
measures be adopted to increase the use of
silver as money and enhance the price of
silver bullion.  We do not assume to speak
of the theory which should be adopted or
the means which should be used to attain
these ends, but we speak from a knowledge
of the distress and business disaster which
have already fallen upon our territory and
this whole intermountain region from the
partial cessation of silver mining, and which
must increase when this industry is more
completely abandoned.  Silver mining is
almost the only source of revenue of this
whole intermountain region.  The miners
consume the agricultural products, laborers
and merchants are paid by the products of
our mines, and with the cessation of mining
there will be common and widespread dis-
aster.  Already hundreds of working
women as well as men, have lost situations,
thousands of skilled laborers have been dis-
charged from our mines and with no oc-
cupation and no capital, will soon have no
food for themselves or families.  A few
mine owners are still working their mines,
but with reduced force and wages, and with-
out profit, and this only to avoid the waste
and damage resulting to machinery and
mines from closing and stopping pumps;
even this work continues only because of
the hope that the price of silver may in-
crease so as to enable a resumption.  Unless
this advance of price comes soon the indus-
try must cease, and other thousands of
helpless laborers will be discharged.  If
this were only temporary, or affected only
one of our industries, we would bear up
bravely, but the foundation upon which
our entire business structure rests is silver
mining, and failure brings universal dis-
aster.  The people of the east are assured
that in these appeals we are not actuated
by selfish motives, or making a false cry
when asking that the bitter cup be turned
aside.  They, too, are also directly and in-
directly interested in our welfare not only


as citizens of a common country but in a
pecuniary way; our merchants buy of them
and obtain credit in proportion to the pros-
perity of our country.  
	Our railroads are built, our mines opened
and our improvements largely made on
credit.  Our railroad, state, territorial and
municipal bonds, our principal loans and
much of our mining stock are held in the
east, therefore they cannot ruin our one
great industry and inestimably lessen values
without damaging their own interests.
	The development of this country and the
investments in property here have been
undertaken and accomplished when the
laws of the country and the platforms of its
political parties pledged the nation to main-
tain the parity between gold and silver,
and gave investors the greatest pledge of
security in the world, and while we do not
understand why this pledge has failed, we
see and know the effects of its failure. We
are loyal women. With you we have an
intense affection and pride in our native
land, and we cannot believe that an appeal
which directly affects the happiness and
prosperity of the people of one-third of this
republic can be listened to with indifference
by you, and we most respectfully submit
our memorial.

	Telegrams of sympathy and encourage-
ment were received from Park City, Ogden,
Corinne, and Provo.
	The mandolin club of young girls ren-
dered a beautiful selection which was very
pleasing in effect and the audience applau-
ded until they were obliged to give an
encore.
	Dr. Ellen Gage and Mrs. Cornelia Pad-
dock made very effective and interesting
speeches and Miss Austin a professional
elecutionist read feelingly a poem entitled,
“The Silver Bells,” quite in keeping with
the sentiment of the meeting, it was heartily
applauded.  Mrs. Allen of Park City
daughter of Col. Ferry was the next
speaker and told much of the miner’s life
and hardships in a pathetic way; she also
gave clearly the condition as it now exists
in mining camps. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
who came to Utah in 1847, and knows
perhaps as much of this country as any
woman living, made some strong points on
home industries and our being self sustain-
ing, thought the people had done well in
keeping calm during the time of excite-
ment around us. A solo by Miss Jennings
“Tis our last plea for silver" etc., was
exquisitely rendered, also a song by Mrs.
Woodrow, “A miner’s plea for silver,” was
given in excellent taste and clear deep tones.
	A severe storm coming up caused
some of the speeches that had been pre-
pared to be passed over which was very
much regretted.  Mrs. Ryan and Mrs.
Nelden both ladies of special talent had
been expected to speak.  Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson gave a synopsis of her speech
which was a sort of review of the silver
question and history of trade and commerce
that would have been valuable to give in
full had there been time.
	During the meeting Mrs. W. F. James
moved that a copy of the memorial be sent
to Mrs. Frances Cleveland, the President’s
wife, the motion was seconded, was voted
upon and carried by the assembly.
	Altogether the meeting was a success
and it is hoped may be the means of en-
lightening the people in the East on the
silver question about which they seem
entirely in the dark.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S. REPORTS.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of Bear 
Lake Stake convened at St. Charles Idaho
Saturday May 27, 1893, at 10 a. m  Presi-
dent Lindsay presiding.  The choir sang,
"What though the sky be starless,"  prayer
Elder M. Allred.  Singing "When the 
heart is pressed with care." Roll called
and minutes of the former conference read
and approved.  Opening remarks appropri-
ate to the occasion made by Prest. Lindsay. 
	The branches of the society were then
represented as follows, St. Charles Prest.
J. C. Gallaway,  Fish Haven, Frances 
Howell, Bloomington, Sarah Patterson,
Paris, 1st Ward, Margaret Sutton, Mont-
pelier, Prest. Patrea Hogansen.  All were
reported as in good condition.  The statisti-
cal and financial report was then read.
Some very interesting and instructive re-
marks were made by Prest. Lindsay and
Counselor Hart, after which Prest. Lind-
say explained that she was in need of a
corresponding sec'y, and it was moved and
carried that Miss Rose Hillier act as Cor.
Sec. Prest. Annie Laker of the primary
associations made some remarks in which 
she gave good instructions.  Meeting
adjourned by singing, benediction by
Brother Jno. Bagley.
	Sunday 2 p. m. President Lindsay presid-
ing. Singing I'll praise my maker etc.,
prayer by Brother Hart, singing. The 
sacrament was administered and during
its administration the choir sang, "Come
follow me." A few remarks were made by 
Prest. Lindsay, after which three associ-
ations were represented as follows, Ovid,
Sister Carlson, Preston, Miss Addie
Dalrymple.  Paris 2nd Ward by Sister
Collins, who after reporting the associa-
tions made some very interesting and
encouraging remarks. Sister Mary Bagley
spoke a short time, bore a faithful testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.  Prest. Lindsay
spoke of the duty of parents to their
children, and also of the duty of presidents
and of the Relief Society, to the poor and
sick among them, said that she was in 
need of some one to assist her and her
counselors in visiting the different branches
of the Society.  Sister Mary Bagley was
chosen and unanimously sustained to act as
such assistant.
	Prest. James Hart spoke at some length
on the missions of the sisters in our church,
and the object of their organization.  Sisters
Mary Bagley and Rose Hillier were then
set apart to their different callings by Prest.
Hart and Bishop Hunt of St. Charles.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, "Jerusalem My Glorious Home."
	Benediction by Bishop Hunt.
			MISS ROSE HILLIER, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of this stake
of Zion convened in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this City, Friday June 30,
1893. President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. On the stand with the President was
her Counselor E. S. Taylor and E. B. Wells,
acting as Secretary in the absence of Margaret A. Caine. Meeting opened with
singing, “Lord we come before thee now,”
etc., prayer was offered by E. B. Fletcher.
Singing, O, my Father thou that dwellest,"  
ect. Roll called and was responded to as

[Column 2]
follows, 19 branches represented by Presi-
dents, 11 by Counselors, 3 by Secretaries,
Treasurer one, teachers two, making in all
36 branches, leaving ten without represen-
tation. The President made some opening
remarks, regretted the delinquencies and
urged those present to make every effort to
awaken others to a realization of the im-
portance of being diligent in the work of
the Society, and seek to become more intelli-
gent upon all subjects, and especially to set
good examples in all places and at all
times, in the home and before the world.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the silk in-
dustry the efforts that were being made to
encourage it and of Sisters Caine, Fosgreen
and Pyper going to Chicago to manufacture
it from the Utah cocoons, with the primi-
tive reel and loom that had been used here.
	Verbal reports—President Emma Wood-
ruff, Farmer’s Ward, Sugar House, President
Gibson, Mill Creek, President Hill, Union,
Secretary Smarts, South Jordan, Counselor
Holt, West Jordan,President Cutler, North
Jordan,President Pixton, Granger, Counse-
lor Park, Pleasant Green, President Hirst,
Riverton, President Silcock, Centre Ward,
President Whittaker, Brighton, President
Hazon. All the reports were favorable and
there seemed to be an excellent spirit
and feeling with them.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made a few re-
marks especially exhorting the sisters to
faithfulness and advancement in the practi-
cal work of the organization, said many
good things, cautioned all to act with wis-
dom. Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
Singing Doxology, benediction by E.
Stevenson.
	Afternoon session: On the stand with
President Horne were her Counselors E. S.
Taylor and H. M. Whitney also acting
Secretary E. B. Wells and Sisters E. Webb
and E. J. Stevenson. Meeting opened by
singing, “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation” and prayer by Maria L. Nebeker,
singing, O, ye mountains high etc.
	President Horne made a few opening re-
marks and spoke a short time upon the
World’s Fair, particularly of the manufac-
tures and the accurate representations of
different countries,and also agriculture, and
described some of the State Buildings,
mentioned Illinois, Iowa, South Dakota and
described the corn palace most definitely,
Canada was not forgotten nor the cheese
weighing 22000 lbs.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney spoke upon
spiritual topics entirely, and the many
testimonies we are receiving from day to
day.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells dwelt at some length
upon the World’s Fair exhibits, the
Woman’s Building including our own silk
exhibit, the Fine Arts, the Liberal Arts and
the General Buildings. 
	Dr. M. H. Cannon gave an interesting
account of the convent of La Rabida where
Columbus called on his way to the Court of
Spain to ask for bread for himself and his
boy, when the old monk encouraged him to
persevere in his endeavors to discover a new
land, told him it was the will of the Lord,
described the room where Columbus slept,
it was filled with the paintings of him, and
of the period,artists differed in their ideas of
the subject. She said she had been deeply
interested in the Cliff Dwellings and the
bearing it had upon the authenticity of the
Book of Mormon and the proofs of a pre-
historic people. Her address was specially
entertaining.
	President Horne in closing the Conference


talked of the need of help there would be this
winter, so many being out of employment
and enjoined upon the sisters to take care of
the poor and let none suffer for the 
necessaries of life.
	Officers of the Relief Society of the
Stake were sustained, and President Horne
spoke of the disasters that were coming 
which had been prophesied of by the 
Prophet Joseph, spoke of the sisters having 
been blessed in their absence and returning
home safely, the meeting held in connection
with the Congress etc. Singing, "Our God
we raise to thee." Conference then ad-
journed for three months, benediction by 
President Horne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WAR OF THE REVOLUTION.
		[Concluded.]
	The importers entered into an agreement
to buy no more goods of Great Britian until
the Stamp Act should be repealed, and the
people cheerfully denied themselves all
imported luxuries. Great was the wrath of
the British government when the news of
these proceedings was borne across the
ocean, but a large part of the English man-
ufacturers sided with the colonies. Lord
Camden in the House of Lord’s spoke in
favor of colonial rights, and Mr. Pitt in the
House of Commons said, you have no right
to tax America. On the 18th of March
1766 the Stamp Act was formally repealed.
The joy in England and America was un-
bounded. But in June 1767 a new scheme
was formed for taxing America. An act
was passed imposing a duty on glass, paper,
painters colors, and tea; at the same time
suspending the powers of the general
assembly of New York, until that body
should vote certain supplies for the royal
troops stationed within the province. A
more rash and disastrous piece of legislation
never was enacted. All the smothered
resentment of the colonies burst out anew.
Another agreement not to purchase goods
of Great Britian was immediately entered
into. Soon after a sloop charged with
attempting to evade the payment of duty
was seized by custom house officers, which
caused the people to rise in a mob. The
governors appealed to the ministers for
help, and General Gage commander in chief
of the British forces in America, was
ordered to bring from Halifax a regiment of
regulars and over awe the people. On the
first of October, the troops seven hundred
strong marched with fixed bayonets
into the Capital of Massachusetts, which
maddened the people, and when the gover-
nor required the selectman to provide
quarters for the soldiers, he was met by an
absolute refusal. The people were declared
rebels, but met this also with resolute de-
fiance. In 1770 a serious affray occured in
New York, caused by the soldiers cutting
down a liberty pole. In March a more
serious one occurred in Boston in which
three citizens were shot down and several
wounded. This outrage known as the
Boston massacre created a profound sensa-
tion, the city was ablaze with excitement.
The brave Samuel Adams spoke for the
people. On the day of the Boston massacre
Lord Worth prime minister, secured the
passage by Parliament of an act repealing
all the duties on American imports except-
ing that on tea. The people at once agreed
not to buy nor use tea. In 1773 the minis-
ters attempted to enforce the tea tax, by a

[Column 2]
stratagem. Ships were loaded with tea for
the American market, at Charleston the
tea was landed but the people forbade its
sale. At New York and Philadelphia the
ships were forbidden to enter the ports.
And finally on the evening of a great town
meeting when seven thousand people were
assembled, a party of about fifty men dis-
guised as Indians boarded the vessels,broke
open the three hundred and forty chests of
tea that composed the cargoes, and poured
the contents into the sea. Such was The
Boston Tea-Party. Parliament made haste
to find revenge and in March 1774 the
Boston Port Bill was passed by which no
kind of merchandise should any longer be
landed or shipped at the wharves of Bos-
ton. The assembly stood stoutly by the
cause of the people. When the news of
the Port Bill reached Virginia, the Bur-
gesses at once entered a protest on the
journals of the House. In September the
Second Colonial Congress assembled at
Philadelphia.
	Eleven colonies were represented. It
was unanimously agreed to sustain Massa-
chussets in her conflict with a wicked
ministry. Before adjournment a resolution
was adopted recommending the suspension
of all commercial intercourse with Great
Britian until the wrongs of the colonies
should be redressed.
	Parliament immediately ordered General
Gage,now governor of Massachusetts to re-
duce the colonies by force. A fleet and an
army of ten thousand soldiers were sent to
America to aid in the work of subjugation.
The general assembly was ordered disband-
ed but, instead of doing so the members
voted themselves into a Provincial Con-
gress and voted to equip an army of twelve
thousand men for the defence of the colony.
There was no longer any hope of peace.
The arm of Great Britain was stretched out
to smite and crush the sons of the Pilgrims.
The colonies were few and feeble but they
were men of iron wills who had made up
their minds to die for liberty. As soon as
the intentions of General Gage were mani-
fest the people made preparations for war.
John Hancock and Samuel Adams went
abroad encouraging the people. The first
battle was fought on the night of the 18th,
of April 1775. The British firing first
after ordering the rebels to disperse from
where they had gathered on the commons
at Lexington. They then pressed on to
Concord. The Americans on attempting
to enter the village met a company of
soldiers. Here for the first time the
Americans fired under orders of their
officers. The enemy began to retreat and
the battle was kept up for six miles along
the road toward Lexington, continuing
even to precincts of Charleston. At one
time it seemed as if the whole British force
would be compelled to surrender; such a
result was prevented only by the fear that
the fleet would burn the city. The Ameri-
can loss was forty-nine killed and thirty-
one wounded, and of the enemy two
hundred and seventy three. The battle of
Lexington fired the whole country. Within
a few days an army of twenty thousand
men had gathered about Boston. John
Stark of New Hampshire, Israel Putman
of Massachusetts Nathaniel Greene of
Rhode Island, Benedict Arnold of New
Haven, and Elnathan Allen of Vermont,
were the first grand, brave leaders of the
American Army. After Ticonderago and
Crown Point were taken. The British

[Column 3]
General Gage issued a proclamation brand-
ing those in arms as rebels and traitors,
and offering pardon to all who would sub-
mit, excepting Samuel Adams and John
Hancock, who were to suffer the penalty
of treason, but we all know how this was
recieved by the Americans. The next
conflict was the memorable, terrible, battle
of Bunker Hill, which took place on the
17th of June I775 in which the British
lost a thousand killed and fifty four wound-
ed. The Americans one hundred and
fifteen killed and three hundred wounded
and thirty two prisoners. Here the brave
Warren lost his life. The . people now de-
gan to talk of the United Colonies of
America. At Charlotte, North Carolina
the citizens in a hasty convention startled
the country by making a Declaration of
Independence. Immediately preceding
this the Colonial Congress reassembled at
Philadelphia where we first hear of Wash-
ington in the struggle for Independence,
with John Adams, and Samuel Adams,
Benjamin Franklin and Patrick Henry
were there, Jefferson came soon afterwards.
A last appeal was addressed to the king of
England. Early in the session John
Adams made a powerful address in which
he sketched the condition and wants of the
country, and of the army. The necessity
of appointing a Commander in Chief and
the qualities requisite in that high officer
were dwelt upon,and then the speaker con-
cluded by putting in nomination George
Washington of Virginia. As soon as his
name was mentioned Washington arose
and withdrew from the hall. He was
overpowered with the responsibility which
was about to be put upon him, and to his
friend Patrick Henry he said with tears in
his eyes “I fear that this will mark the
downfall of my reputation.” On the 15th,
of June the nomination was unanimously
sustained by Congress, and the man who
had saved the wreck of Braddock’s armies
in the French and Indian War, was called
to build a nation. With great dignity he
accepted the appointment, refusing all
compensation beyond his actual expense.
He reached Cambridge fifteen days after the
battle of Bunker Hill. The army was ar-
ranged in three divisions, the right under
General Ward held Roxbury, the left un-
der General Charles Lee rested at Prospect
Hill, the centre under the direction of the
Commander-in-chief lay at Cambridge.
The Americans looked to Canada for
sympathy and aid. It was believed that
the Canadians would make common cause
against Great Britain. So General Schuyl-
er and Montgomery were placed in com-
mand of a division, and sent to Canada.
Late in Autumn Colonel Benedict Arnold
took a thousand men and proceeded to-
ward Canada. It was a campaign of un-
told hardships. Morgan, Greene and
Meigs three noted leaders of the Revolu-
tion, and Aaron Burr, one day to become
Vice-President of the United States were
in this company of suffering heroes. This
expedition proved a failure. The Ameri-
cans were beaten back with the loss of the
great Montgomery besides many of the
army. At last came the king’s answer to
the appeal of Congress. It was such an
answer as George third and his ministers
always made to the petitioners for human
rights. The colonies were insulted and
spurned and their petition was treated with
contempt. The first thing necessary was
to disband the army and submit without


[Column 1]
conditions. By this tyrannical and offen-
sive answer the day of Independence was
brought nearer. By the middle of Febru-
ary the American army had increased to
fourteen thousand men and Washington
felt himself strong enough to assault the
enemy. Until May it had been hoped that
the difficulty with the Mother country
could be satisfactorily adjusted without
breaking allegiance to the British crown;
but after witnessing the terrible prepara-
tions for war made by Great Britain the
sentiment of disloyalty spread with
alarming rapidity; finally on the 7th of
June 1776, Richard Henry Lee of Virginia,
offered a resolution in Congress declaring
that the United Colonies are, and of right
ought to be free and Independent States,
that they are absolved from all allegiance
to the British crown, and that all political
connection between them and Great Britain
is and ought to be dissolved. Thomas Jef-
ferson was made chairman of a committee
to prepare a more elaborate and formal
declaration. The members were John
Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Roger Sher-
man and Robert B. Livingston. The
special work of preparing the paper was
given to Jefferson and Adams, the great
document was accordingly produced in
Jefferson’s hands with a few interlinings by
Adams and Franklin. The discussion was
continued for several days and at two p.m.
on the afternoon of that memorable day
the 4th of July, the Declaration of Ameri-
can Independence was adopted by unani-
mous vote.
	All day long the old bell man of the
State House had stood in the steeple ready
to sound the note of freedom to the city and
nation. As the hours went by he grew dis-
couraged and said, “they will never do
it,” just then a lad ran out and shouted at
the top of his voice “Ring! ring!” and the
aged veteran did ring as he had never rung
before; everywhere the Declaration was re-
ceived with enthusiasm.
	At Philadelphia the king’s arms
were torn down and burned in the street, at
Williamsburg, Charleston, and Savannah
there were bonfires and illuminations, at
Boston the Declaration was read in Fanuil
Hall while the cannon from Fort Hill and
Dorchester shook the city of the Puritans.
At New York the populace pulled down the
leaden statue of George third and cast it in-
to bullets. Washington received the mes-
sage with joy and ordered the declaration to
be read at the head of each brigade.
Former suffering and future peril were
alike forgotten in the general rejoicing. It
is impossible to give a detailed account of
the events of the great war with the suc-
cesses and reverses attending the grand,
brave men composing the army. But right
here let me say that many of Washington’s
reverses and defeats were brought about by
the stubbornness and disobedience of his in-
ferior officers. When destruction seemed
staring them in the face, France came to
the rescue. From the day that Baron
Stuben, a veteran soldier, and disciplina-
rian from the army of Frederick the Great
entered the army there was a marked im-
provement in the condition and discipline
of the soldiers. The American regulars
were never again beaten when confronted
by the British in equal numbers. In Nov-
ember 1776 Arthur Lee and Benjamin
Franklin were appointed by Congress to
negotiate an open treaty of friendship with
the French king. Now it was that the
genius of Dr. Franklin shone with a

[Column 2]
peculiar lustre. No nation ever had an
ambassador of greater wisdom and sagacity.
In 1778 a treaty was concluded when France
and the United States entered into relations
of reciprocal friendship. In America the
news of the new alliance was received with
great rejoicing; in England with vindictive
anger. In 1778 George third became will-
ing to treat with his American subjects.
Everything that the colonies claimed was
ceded. Commissioners were sent to America
but Congress informed them that nothing
but an express acknowledgement of the
independence of the United States would
now be accepted. In July of 1780 a French
squadron and six thousand land troops ar-
rived to aid the poor discouraged half-starv-
ed men of the American army. Washing-
ton and Rochambeau together planned for
future campaigns. In July 1780 the country
was shocked by the rumor that Benedict
Arnold had turned traitor, and the news
though hardly credible was true. The
brave, rash man who on behalf of the
patriot cause had suffered untold hardships,
and shed his blood on more fields than one,
had blotted the record of his heroism with a
deed of treason. Plans were laid for his
capture but he escaped the penalty, while
young Mr. Andre through whom the cor-
respondence had been kept up was taken
and executed. In the opening of the year
1781 the condition of the army was desper-
ate, no food, no pay, no clothing; but on
the 19th of October that same year through
the united efforts of the two great leaders,
Washington and Lafayette, Cornwallis the
great English general was taken, which
virtually ended the war of the Revolution.
When the news reached Philadelphia, the
members of Congress assembled and the
dispatch was read from Washington. The
members exulting and weeping for glad-
ness went in concourse with the citizens to
the Dutch Lutheran church and turned the
afternoon into a thanksgiving. The note
of rejoicing sounded through the length
and breadth of the land. On the 30th of
November 1782 articles of peace were agreed
to and signed on the part of Great Britian
by Oswald, and on behalf of the United
States by Franklin, Adams, Jay and
Laurens. In the following April the terms
were ratified by Congress, but it was not
until the 3rd of November 1783 that a
final treaty was effected between all the
nations that had been at war. On that day
the ambassadors of Holland, Spain
England, France and the United States, in
a solemn conference at Paris, agreed to and
signed the articles of a permanent peace.
The terms of the treaty of 1783 were brief-
ly these. A full and complete recognition
of the independence of the United States,
the recession by Great Britian of Florida to
Spain, the surrender of all the remaining
territory east of the Mississippi and the
lakes to the United States, the free navi-
gation of the Mississippi and the lake by
American vessels, the concession of mutual
rights in the Newfounland fisheries, and the
retention by Great Britian of Canada and
Nova Scotia with the exclusive control of
the St. Lawrence. Such in brief is the
history of the great struggle of the Ameri-
can colonies for independence.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Happiness does not always ride in a
carriage.


To be always amiable content; and lov-
ing in the home, where there is no motive
for assuming virtues that do not exist, is to
give the most conclusive proof of true 
Christian character.
	No human face is exactly the same in its
lines on each side; no leaf is perfect in its
lobes, and no branch in its symmetry. All
admit irregularity, as they imply change.
To banish imperfections is to destroy ex-
pression, to check exertion, to paralyze
vitality. All things are better, lovelier,
and more beloved for the imperfections
which have been divinely appointed, that
the law of human life may be effort, and the
law of human judgment may be mercy. —
Ruskin.


AN OLD, OLD RHYME.

Married in white, you have chosen all right.
Married in gray, you will go far away.
Married in black, you will wish yourself back.
Married in red, you will wish yourself dead.
Married in green, ashamed to be seen.
Married in blue, he will always be true. 
Married in yellow, ashamed of your fellow.
Married in brown, you will live out of town.
Married in pink, your spirits will sink.


TO LITTLE TEMPLETON BENNETT.

Lo in the Temple, Holy shrine
Was born an infant boy, divine
His sacred place of birth
Might well be envied by the nobles of the earth.

Who with all their titles, wealth and splendor
	rare
Cannot boast of a jewel that can with this baby
	boy compare
Born in a Temple, heir to the Priesthood,
Parentage, honorable, true and good.

No no, Zion’s babes born heirs to the Throne,
Who can compare with them, ah! there are none
If early they are taught in their fresh rosy youth,
To walk in the path of the beautiful truth.

Dear little Templeton guileless and sweet,
May angels ere guard thy tender feet
Crowning thy life with the purest of love,
Enriching thy mind with bright gems from above

So that like the fragrant flowers
That bloom to gladden this earth of ours
So may thy life with beauty and richness glow;
Life with good deeds, and blessings here below.

							MRS. S. STOCK.


WE acknowledge with sincere thanks the
gift of a handsome souvenir of the Co-
lumbian year sent us from San Francisco.
An illustrated poem entitled "La Rabida’
a California Columbian Souvenir. There
is a picture of the convent on the cover and
the engravings are first the convent, then
Columbus beseeching the monk at the door
of the convent his boy stretched on the 
ground near by half famished, third the
court scene of the Queen Isabella of Castile
and her courtiers etc., the ship Santa
Maria leaving Palos, sails hoisted, the
people on shore waving adieux, while the
Priest is blessing him with outstretched
arms. Columbus on the sea, Columbus
landing in the tropics, his return, Columbus
taken prisoner, the old priest Juan Perez.
	It is a beautifully written poem and the 
illustrations are excellent. The press
notices we have seen give Miss Mary Lam-
bert the author great praise. It is indeed 
worthy of high commendation.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ITEMS.

	Mrs. WILLMIRTH East President of the
Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake in
Arizona is spending the season in this City
and may be found at the residence of her
son, 642, East, First South St. Sisters
who wish to communicate with her will
please note the address. Sister East will
be pleased to visit any of the branches of
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. or Pri-
mary, as she has been familiar with these
organizations from the beginning here in
the valley; she has leisure and would be
pleased to visit among the associations.
Mrs. East is a good strong advocate of
Woman Suffrage and thoroughly patriotic.

	IT is not possible for an editor to please
every body, and we find it difficult to pub-
lish all our subscribers think proper. Some-
times articles are rejected because nnsuit-
able, and it is not possible to make the ex-
planations public. In reference to death
notices, it is almost impossible to keep up
with the number sent in for publication.
We try to make a complete record of those
sisters who have been efficient and faithful
in the Relief Society, as the EXPONENT is
the official organ of that Society. If oc-
casionally one is inadvertently missed, it is
certainly not intentional, but one cannot pub-
lish more than a column or two of obituaries
in one issue.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	IN the summer time most people prefer
to eat as little meat as possible and cool and
dainty salads, are a fine substitute, they
also are very nice for luncheons and having
tried the following cream salad dressing,
we can recommend it to our readers to be
used either on cold boiled potatoes, lettuce,
cabbage or other vegetables, or on the
lobster, shrimp, or other fine meats: 2 eggs,
3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 1/2 tea cup of
cream or milk, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1/2 
teaspoonful of mustard 1/4 teaspoonful of salt.
Beat eggs well, add sugar, salt and mustard,
then vinegar and cream. Place bowl in a
basin of boiling water, if you have not a
farina kettle and stir until thickness of rich
cream. If the water boils all the time it
will take about five minutes; set aside to
cool and use as needed.
	Another simple salad is made of small
cakes of cottage cheese served upon a bed
of shreded lettuce and garnished with
mayonnaise and small crescent olives.
Many people do not understand the word
mayonnaise so commonly used in recipes
for salads and gravies. The word means a
stiff emulsion of egg and oil if you do not
like the oil, butter or cream may be used,


I wonder if every one realizes the many
uses of ammonia, as a child I only recollect
it in the smelling bottle for the purpose of
reviving a fainting woman, but I find it so
useful in many ways now. It softens the
water so nicely for washing flannels, and in
the bath. especially for the hair it is useful.
A little in the water in which silver or
glass is washed brightens them.


OBITUARIES.

Editor Woman's Exponent: 
	WITH profound sadness we record the death of
another of God’s noble women, Sister Janet Lowe
Dowdle, the beloved wife of Robert Dowdle, and
daughter of Thomas and Eliza Lowe.
	Sister Dowdle was born April the 20th 1852 at


Fifeshire Scotland and died April the 26th, 1893,
at Coveville, Cache Co. Utah.
	She emigrated to Utah with her parents when
she was three years old, and grew to womanhood
among this people, was married to Brother Rob-
ert Dowdle of Franklin, Idaho,October 3rd, 1868,
removed to Coveville in 1876, where she resided
’til her death. She was the mother of sixteen
children ten of whom died in their infancy, and
six are left to mourn her loss, the youngest a
babe at the time of her death; she suffered much
but was true and faithful to the last. She was
one of those who have come up through much
tribulation, who washed their robes in the blood
of the Lamb. She has finished her work and
fought the good fight and now rests from her
labors, and her noble example and integrity to
the truth will long be remembered by those who
knew her; she died in full faith of a glorious
resurrection, surrounded by her family, brothers
and sisters, all but her two youngest brothers who
are both absent on missions.
	Funeral services were held in the Franklin
Meeting House, and her remains were followed
to the cemetery, by a large concourse of relatives
and friends to pay their last respects to the dear,
departed one.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, Our Father in Heaven has called
from our midst Sister Janet Dowdle who was al-
ways true and faithful in the performance of her
duties in our Society and had by meekness of
spirit won the respect and love of all who associ-
ated with her, we feel to express our love for her
in these few lines.
	Resolved, that as a sister, associate, and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow submis-
sively to the will of Him who doeth all things
well and say “Thy will, O, Lord not ours be
done.”
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and fol-
low in the example she set us that of being a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family and relatives;
that one copy of these resolutions be presented
to them, and a copy be entered on the record of
our Society and a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
	Dear Sister Janet we feel that you rest in peace
and that your work on earth is done and well
done; may we, like you, prove faithful in all
things and when we go hence receive the wel-
come plaudit, “Well done ”
			ELIZABETH TITENSOR Prest.
			Jane R. Biggs, Secretary.


IT is with sorrowing hearts we the members of
the Wallsburg Relief Society report the death of
Sister M. L. Comic Kerby. She departed this
life May 9th, 1893; Was born September 19th,
1823, on the Island of Jersey.
	She was baptized July 12th, 1849 by Elder
William C. Dunbar. Crossed the plains in a
hand cart company with her husband and four
children, was the mother of ten children, was a
faithful member of the Society from its organiza-
tion, treasurer thirteen years and always ready to
help. Her counsel was wise in temporal as well
as spiritual things. Her energies were alive to
the interest of the kingdom of God. She worked
diligently to get the genealogy of her dead.
Worked faithful until the last one had their work
done.
	Therefore be it resolved that we the members
of the Wallsburg Relief Society do sincerely
sympathize with her bereaved husband and family
and farther be it resolved that we strive to emu-
late her noble example.
	Farewell Sister Mary: We must bid you a fond
adieu a crown of bright glory awaits you and
shouts of Hosannah on the other shore welcomed
you—and the assurance that your work here was
well done must be our consolation and that a
starry crown will be your reward.
			ESTHER DABLING,
			M. A. BATTY COUNSELORS.
			M. A. BURNS Assistant.
			LUCINDA M. BOREN, Secretary.


DIED on the 9th of May 1893, in Spanish Fork,
Utah Co, Utah, of pneumonia. Sister Margaret
Miller, the beloved wife of James Miller, aged
63 years 5 months and 11 days.
	Deceased was born in Glasgow, Scotland, in


the year 1830. Emigrated to Massachusetts in
1851, then to Salt Lake City in 1852, and was
there married to James Miller.
	She is the mother of six children all of whom
survive her: She has been a faithful wife and
mother, and an earnest worker in the Relief
Society, having held the positions of Teacher,
Counselor, and President.

	Resolved, That while we deplore her loss yet
we know that she was a faithful Latterday Saint
and has gone to receive the crown which has
been promised to the faithful ones, and that our
loss is her gain.
	Resolved, That we extend to the bereaved
family our heart felt sympathies. We feel to
strive to emulate her many virtues and her
patient and noble life.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these
resolutions to the bereaved family and that we
have them published in the Woman’s EXPONENT,
and the Spanish Fork Sun, and that they be 
spread upon the records of this association.

	No more can care and sorrow come,
		To grieve that gentle loving heart,
	For all thy earthly toils are done,
		And with thee we must part.
				BARBARA C. BANKS,
				SARAH M. BOYACK,
				LIZZIE A. HUTCHINSON,
	In behalf of the Third Ward Relief Society of
Spanish Fork.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 pm.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER &. STEAM FITTERS

[icon of a pointing finger] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
[--]- [----] [---]mp[-]ly responded to
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping do[--] to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET,
						 Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND
					ACCOUCHEUR
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations
VOL. 22.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1893.			NO. 3


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Women as
Typesetters—The Journalist. U. W. P. Club—
Ellis R. Shipp. Reorganization—Martha Bar-
row. R. S. Reports. The War of 1812. Fight-
ing the Gipsy Moth. The Sabbath Day—Anon.
Miscellaneous. Resolutions of Respect. Obitu-
aries.
	EDITORIAL.—The Present Condition. Bohe-
mian Women. A Pleasant Garden Party. A
Pictorial Chart. The Silk Industry in Utah.

	POETRY.—The Old Home—E. L. G.	A Prayer
Tooele Stake Primary—Ellis R. Shipp. With a
Portrait—E. J.	A Glimpse of Utah Lake—Laura
St. Vrain.


THE OLD HOME.

THE gray storm-beaten farm house,
	At the top of the wonderful hill;
And the great barns on beyond it;
	Are standing there cold and still.

The house is quaint and rambling,
	The window panes many and small;
Its color is faded to ashen, 
	From the once pure white of its wall.

The sitting room floor so uneven,
	Is the same as ever today;
It came from a sunken rafter,
	And sloped from the centre each way.

But the low rocking chair of mother’s. 
	Just fitted the slope of the floor;
And father’s arm chair in the centre,
	Stood happily facing the door.

The dear little white-walled chamber,
	Just off from the family room,
Is hallowed by sweeter mem’ries,
	Than any about the home.

For there so gentle and patient,
	My mother in sickness hath lain,
While we watched and waited beside her,
	Through hours of anguish and pain.

And there those dread days in winter,
	Came grim and unbidden death,
And from father, mother and brother,
	Took the feeble, fluttering breath.

The cool, old airy kitchen,
	With its white-sand polished floor,
The little old-fashioned parlor,
	With the obstinate creaking door.

The steep and walled-in stair-way,
	The tiny room beyond,
With its bed and home-made covers,
	By angel hands made fond. 

The well with its oaken bucket, 
	The spring at the foot of the hill,
With the buttercup strewn meadow,
	Delight my vision still.

And the sun that shines upon them,
	Is a brighter fairer sun,
Than shines on other meadows, 
	Though I viewed them one by one.
 
The walls have a subtle perfume,
	And a smile of welcome home, 
They seem to lean and beckon,
	To one who used to roam.


The cellar, the shed and the pantry,
	Have none of the dingy gloom,
Which lingers in other houses,
	And in many a rich-walled room. 

Oh hallowed home of childhood!
	I cannot see thee now!
But the home of father and mother,
	Is a shrine at which I bow.
							E. L. G.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XXXIII.

	LADY ANNA never quite recovered from
the shock of Aunt Walton’s insinuations
about ghosts and legends, and Maitland
who was perfectly innocent on the subject
could not satisfy her, not knowing any-
thing himself; but poor Anna was now
more determined than ever to leave Walton
Hall, where she had never felt very happy,
and as Maitland (now really Lord Walton
having rightfully inherited the title) paid
no regard to her wishes, but absented him-
self more and more from his home, she be-
came so obstinate as to declare, that unless
he would go abroad with her, she would
write to Uncle Rob to make arrangements
for her to sail for America.
	Lord Walton in settling up matters after
his mother’s marriage found himself
burdened with a large landed estate, and
very small revenue to maintain it, and
therefore saw something must be done to
save Walton Hall from irretrievable ruin;
and was more willing to listen to Anna’s
proposals to leave England. To him the
whole world was hanging as it were by a
single thread, he had gone through all his
ready money, his lawyers would not allow
him to overdraw a farthing; he had no
resources to fall back upon, his mother had
united her fortunes with another race, and
he could thenceforth have no claim upon
her; he had played a desperate game, and
lost; and though his wife knew nothing of
all this, he was self-condemned. Maitland
Walton was not wholly bad, and he might
have retrieved his fallen fortunes even then,
but his wife was of that weak and plastic
mold that society favors and countenances,
and he had no one to look to. Had Anna
been made of the same strong material as
her cousin Jane, and bravely looked into
the difficulty, for her intuition told her
something was amiss, Maitland might have
lifted his head above water once more; but
his good fortune had seemingly forsaken
him, and Anna begged him to leave Eng-
land forever. She only thought of peace
and rest, and the enjoyment of home ties
with husband and child, she could not
grasp all the advantages that might accrue
from estate, and titles, and rank. Lord
Walton was involved, his creditors were on
his track, his mother’s marriage had been
published and his claims upon the estate
were not what had been expected, and Sir
Clair Hilliard was the heir of Sir Edward
instead of Lady Anna, and gossip was
ready with busy tongue to enlarge upon
the situation and pour out vials of bitter-

[column 2]
ness upon the troubled waters, that
seethed and boiled ominously. Maitland
kept all that was disagreeable from his wife,
but Dr. Bland became aware from other
sources of the very unpleasant circum-
stancs that environed those in whom he
had interested himself, and resolved, to go
where disgrace could not overtake Anna,
whose delicacy could not stand calumny
and reproach, who was not only very dear
to him, because of her innocence and purity,
and his intimate association with the
family, but he knew that to Jane (his
darling wife) she was as “the apple of her
eye.” Jane Conway had set her affections
upon her cousin Anna, when she first
came to the old castle, because of her
instinctive love of beauty and purity that
were so apparent, and when she saw how
innocent and inexperienced she was, how
neglected, and how insolated, her girlhood
had been, she felt all the motherly nature
inherent in her soul, rise up in her defense
and to protect her. Since her marriage
she noted how neglectful Maitland had
been, while Dr. Bland had shown her
every attention a wife could wish for, and
knowing all this, Dr. Bland decided to go
away, and take his wife and her cousin
where life might be begun anew, and all
the old hideous past be buried, or hidden
away or blotted out, and the future be
bright with promise and hopeful anticipa-
tion. In fact the Doctor believed in Mait-
land’s strength to rise superior to his
surroundings, and make a name and for-
tune, without heredity, as he had done,
through his own superior powers and
ability.
	Once the Doctor’s plans were matured in
his own mind, he opened the subject to his
wife; and she coincided immediately, and
made her calculations to lose no time, but
apprise Anna right away and prepare to set
sail before the Autumnal storms.
	We who live in this prophetic age, look
back and wonder why they who were thus
wrought upon to open up the new world,
could not comprehend the purposes of the
Lord in establishing another form of
government upon this continent, but we
to day are just as ignorant of what is yet
to transpire, as were our ancestors who
came to America in those early times.
	The mysterious plans and movements of
the ages as they come and go, are not given
us to know, but are in the hands of one
who is all powerful, and all-seeing, and we
only bide the issues of the hour that to us
are marvelous and beyond finite comprehen-
sion. Yet we know that the best blood of
the old world, the descendants of the most
noble men and womeu, born with the in-
herited freedom of privileges that descends
through generations from father to son, and
mother to daughter, culminated in the race
that gave to Amerlca its freedom and liberty
of thought and of conscience. It could
not have been otherwise. No servile race
could have broken the tyrant’s chain only
free-born men and women, who knew their
own power and superiority and their equal-
ity with the best people of the mother


[Column 1]
country, of which they were a dominant
part.
	Lady Anna was delighted when her
cousin gave her the first intimation of going
to an unknown country, and exclaimed
“O, Cousin Jane, let me go away from
this dreadful place where I have known
only misery and discontent, I fancied love
such as I hoped to obtain in marriage, 
would crown my life with supreme happi-
ness but how vain were all my foolish
dreams; how selfish I was; I could have
done so much to make Hilliard castle a
happy home for my father in his declining
years, and made up to him his great loss
and bereavement, for my mother’s death;
and my brother Clair had we known in my
father’s life-time of his existence could have
relieved him of the burdens of the estate;
—O, why can’t we know these things in
time and save ourselves and others so much
unhappiness.’’
	“The good Father has not so ordered it,
my dear cousin and we must submit to h1s
interposition and acknowledge his Hand
in all that comes to us here, whether it is
as we would wish it, or otherwise. We
are not the arbiters of our own destiny, and
if we were, I question whether we should
plan as well as our Heavenly Father does
for us in all matters.”
	“Dear cousin Jane, how good you are,
and how wise; I am not fit to battle with
life, I need the faith and trust in a higher
power that you possess, and I know not
how to gain it, what shall I do to reach
that confidence in a divine power that you
have attained? teach me how to rise out of
this doubt and gloom that gathers round
me like a cloud, and obscures all that is
beautiful, shutting out the light of heaven,
and leaving me enveloped in the darkness
of despair.”
	“You must not give way to such fancies
Anna, you are not to blame, rest assured
we will see happier days, meantime busy
yourself with needful preparations, and
leave Maitland to the Doctor’s persuasive
arguments.”
	And for the time Lady Anna was pacified
and let things take their course. Aunt
Walton becoming convinced that Anna
would not go to the seashore, left the Hall
to seek new fields, and Maitland was more
mindful of home and set about winding
up his affairs, taking advice from
Doctor Bland who had approached him in a
way that secured his confidence at once.
	Such were some of the peculiar con-
ditions that brought to America in early
times, people of education and delicacy of
feeling and sentiment. That there was a
design and purpose in all these things we
who live in this dispensation firmly believe.
When Doctor Bland and young Lord Wal-
ton talked the matter over together of going
into a new country, and took counsel how
best to proceed, half the difficulties and
embarrassment that had seemed positive
obstacles were removed and the way seemed
to open up before them readily. In those
days there were many inconveniences to
encounter that those who travel now know
nothing of, and to these ladies they were
hardships; yet Lady Anna had often
thought if she were on a desert island with
Maitland by her side and baby in her arms
to do as she pleased with, she could be
happy. She little knew what it really
meant, (child of fortune as she was) to be
deprived of any luxury, worse still to
“rough it” in a land of red men and un-
trodden forests.

[Column 2]
	It is well for us all that in the economy
of heaven we are kept in ignorance of the
future, or it would often be impossible for
us to walk fearlessly into the fiery furnace
of trial as we do, we would need greater
faith and superior knowledge to enable us to
live out the allotted time here upon earth
were we thus forewarned.
	Mrs. Bland and her cousin made the tour
of the dear old castle and grounds more
than once taking note of everything of
special interest not only for memory’s sake,
but that they might tell it all in detail to
their children in years to come. As for
Walton Hall the only feeling Lady Anna
had was to forget she had ever lived in it;
she could not take into consideration the
fact that it was the inheritance of her son,
that he would succeed to the title in time—
her ideas and sentiments all centered now in
Hilliard castle and that would belong to
Clair. There was no one who interested
her in the matter and she was left to her
own surmisings; she had never alluded
to her cousin Jane to the insinuations of
Maitland’s aunt, but it worried her, and
when one morning her maid informed her
that some of the servants had seen a strange
woman about the galleries; she shivered
with nervous dread, and could scarcely
keep from betraying her fears. She con-
soled herself with the thought that she
would soon be far away. and then second-
arily remembering her cousin’s prophetic
nature ordered the carriage to drive over
and see her and impart the secret that
weighed upon her mind,and ask her advice.
	Arriving early in the day Mrs. Bland
suspected something wrong, and besides
Lady Anna was pale with excitement.
“What is the matter with you cousin, is
baby Edward ill?” after the first greetings
were exchanged ,was her cousin’s first
thought. “O, no but Aunt Walton once
hinted to me that there were strange stories
about Walton Hall, and that ghosts had
been seen there, but I tried not to believe
it, because she was always trying to induce
me to go here and there making all kinds
of pretexts."
	“Depend upon it cousin Anna this is
servant’s gossip, there’s not an old castle or
hall in all England that has not at some-
time or other had a rumor like this circula-
ted by superstitious servants.” And by
such good reasoning Lady Anna’s fears
were allayed for the time being, and she
returned home in better spirits, the fresh
air and invigorating helpfulness of cousin
Jane lifting her from the temporary des-
pondency. In her childhood her maid and
even her French governess had allowed
her to read queer stories, and she recollected
that these apparitions were said to make
their appearance when some great event
was to transpire in the family, and she had
immediately construed this to mean disaster
of some serious nature; but her cousin’s
confidence had given her courage, and she
reflected that were it really an omen it
might only be the important fact of Mait-
land and herself leaving Walton Hall for-
ever. It was comparatively easy for Doc-
tor Bland to dispose of his property and
wind up his affairs, though it necessitated a
journey into the North of England to bid
his relatives farewell. With young Lord
Walton things were more complicated, his
mother did not oppose him, he was glad of
that, and he felt Dr. Bland would be a wise
counselor and true friend, but there were
many matters to be adjusted and he might

[Column 3]
be absent for years, and indeed never re-
turn again, and the great responsibility and
the giving up of position in the country of
his ancestry made an impression that
brought him to his sober senses, and he
looked upon the past few years of his life
as an almost unpardonable mistake, and
folly in the extreme.


WOMANS EXPONENT


TOOELE STAKE PRIMARY.

CHILDREN, beautiful and noble!
	By our father you are sent,
From his high and holy mansion—
	Each to be a faithful Saint;
Here to learn both light and wisdom,
	And your minds with truth instil
Here on earth a faithful mission
	Each of you must nobly fill.

In your early lives beginning,
	Day by day to learn the truth,
Shunning evil ways, and sinning
	Scatter sunshine in your youth;
Gather pearls of understanding,
	Kernels glean of golden grain,
Listen to the wise, commanding
	You to shun the paths of pain.

Well we know that tears and sorrow
	Ever come from evil doing,
Look ye forth then to the morrow
	Ever righteous works pursuing,
For true knowledge be thou reaching,
	Seek a noble life to live,
Heed thou then the earnest teaching,
	Faithful parents ever give.

Parents, teachers too are ready
	E’er your youthful feet to guide,
And your tottering form to steady,
	Leading you to Fathers side,
And he too, in tender mercy
	E’er will heed your fervent pray’rs,
For he hears the cry of ravens
	And has numbered all your hairs.

He will help you, if you ask him
	To be wise, and good and strong,
Obedient to parent’s counsel,
	And to shun the paths of wrong,
In the spring-time of existence,
	Plant the seeds of truth, and light
That will bring a bounteous harvest,
	Fruits and flowers to greet thy sight.

E’er be gentle with each other—
	Love and kindness bring most joy
Honor father dear, and mother
	Never worry, nor annoy,
Think how they have watched and loved you
	Since a helpless babe you came,
Pure and innocent from Heaven,
	Beaming as a brilliant flame.

Then, O! seek to give them comfort,
	By becoming good, and great
Walking e’er in paths of virtue,
	As you reach to man’s estate,
Work and study faith and prayer,
	Lead to wisdom, light and truth,
Then dear children, have a watch care, 
	Seek O! seek these in thy youth:

Thus you’ll gain the greatest pleasure
	Greatest joy, and comfort know
Light, and wisdom, without measure
	Father’s willing to bestow,
And at last, an exaltation,
	With his righteous Saints above,
Giving endless life—Salvation!
	In that holy home of love. 
			Lovingly,
					ELLIS R. SHIPP
June 9th, 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PRAYER.

	[Com[-]osed and read at the fnneral services of
Sister Louisa Taylor, Goshen March 17th, 1893 by
Christina Higginson.]

God of mercy direct me this wearisome day,
A kind word of comfort to loved ones to say.
To cheer up the hearts of the tried and the true
For all their dependence is centered in you.

Be near with Thy comforting influence sweet,
For the hearts of our loved ones in agony beat,
This day finds their senses all numb with despair;
Bless them and comfort them now is my prayer.
Their hearts are bereaved for the loved one that’s
	gone,
They mourn her and miss her so much from
	their home,
But her mission is over, her body’s at rest;
She mingles with friends in the land of the
	blest.
Her life speaks a volume of kind words and
	deeds,
She has spent a long life in supplying the needs,
Of the poor and the lowly, the tried and the true;
There was nothing too much for her kind heart to
	do.

Her children will miss her kind influence sweet
Their circle at home will be never complete,
Without their loved mother, for mother love
	heals
All the aches and the pains that humanity feels

But ah me! What comfort—what heavenly fire—
The hearts of her loved ones will ever inspire.
To know that they acted with kindness and love
To their mother who’s gone to the mansions
	above.

Well worthy is she to receive the reward—
“Well done! enter into the joys of the Lord.”
She goes to her rest with a record as pure
As the snow on the mountains, and will ever en-
	dure.

And when the last trump of the Lord sounds
	abroad,
“Come, arise with the just; come and dwell with
	thy Lord.”
Her frame now so worn will rise in its might,
And forever will dwell in the mansions of light.

O, Father be kind to the loved ones below,
’Til thy Fatherly summons may bid them to go, 
To join their loved parent in mansions above,
I pray for all this with a spirit of love.


[Column1]
WOMEN AS TYPESETTFRS.
	GREASED lightning don’t seem to be in
it, so to speak, as a comparison to the way
the printer woman’s fingers traveled over
the big rack full of little boxes, which she
called a case, and dropped little chunks of
lead into the piece of metal she held in her
hand, and which is known to the initiated
as a “stick.”
	“Would you give some points concerning
printing as a trade for women?”
	Most certainly she would, and she knew
whereof she talked, for it is twenty-five
years since her mother obtained admission
for her as a very great favor into a little
country newspaper office, where she was to
learn the trade as a boy learns it. She be-
gan as the printer’s devil, and did all sorts
of work afterward, from running errands
to making up the forms.
	“That’s the trouble,” she says, with
girls who learn the trade nowadays. They
are not thorough. Not one in twenty-five
of them who say they are experts know
anything about any other part of the trade
than typesetting. Many of them don’t

[Column 2]
seem to want to learn any more of it.
They manage to get into some office to 
learn the trade, and are given a case and
taught the letters. You know this doesn’t
happen to a boy apprentice for a long time,
and getting cases is regarded as quite an
event. They are paid about twenty cents
a thousand ems for all the matter they set
up, and when they’ve been working about
three months they consider themselves ex-
perts and go and hunt up a new job where
if their employer doesn’t know how long
they’ve been working at the trade, he is
apt to give them thirty or thirty-five cents.
The regular scale which men receive is
 from forty to fifty cents a thousand. But,
really I’m sorry to say that their cheapness
is about the only thing that recommends
women printers. That is, I mean, the
average young girl printer. They won’t
do things that men will. They want too
much waiting on. Some of them think its
quite the proper thing to be real delicate
and weak. They can’t possibly lift cases.
If they work in the office with men they
waste a great deal of the men’s time by
asking for assistance. If the men object,
and perhaps refuse to work in the office
with them, their employer gets a boy to
wait on them.
	“Certainly, it’s a good trade for women
if they treat it properly. Girls who work
in union offices—there are a few who do,
although the total number of women who
belong to the union is hardly a hundred—
make from $16 to $18. I know of at least
three women who have charge of depart-
ments in large printing houses, who began
as typesetters, and who receive from $18 to
$25 a week. There are about 6,000 printers
in New York, and less than 500 of that
number are women. It’s a bit odd, too,
that so few should be in the field, where
the pay is apparently good. I say apparent-
ly, for the simple reason that although the
pay is comparatively good, much better, in-
deed, than that received by the average
saleswoman, bookkeeper, stenographer, or
other woman worker, it is not so good as it
should be—that is men, for the same work,
frequently receive twice as much pay.
Within the past five or six years a great
many girls have learned typesetting, and
the trade already begins to suffer from the
girl who lives at home and isn’t particular
about getting the market value for her
work.
	“Just now I have a good job; I’m get-
ting $18 a week, but I’m general factotum.
I set type, read proof, and keep an eye on
the other girls in the room. A short time
ago I happened to be out of work and I 
learned more about the prices that women
work for, than I ever dreamed of before.
I walked, rode and got about in various 
ways to half the shops between here and
Harlem, looking for a job. I could have 
got in half a dozen places. In one I was
offered twenty-five cents a thousand ems.
In another I was offered $8 a week. The
highest sum was $12. The lowest I had
ever worked for since the first four years,
when I served my apprenticeship, was $15,
and I had been getting $20 just before the
firm for which I worked went out of busi-
ness. I was also offered an opportunity of
learning how to run a machine, which, I
was informed, would in time supplant all
flesh-and-blood workmen. I was offered
$4.50 to commence. By dint of inquiry, I
learned that the highest sum paid was $12
a week for ten hours’ work daily. I didn’t

[Column 3]
accept. I asked if women were preferred
for any other reason than their cheapness,
and was informed that they were steadier
more reliable, neater and more conscien-
tious. This being the case, it seemed to
be even more unjust that they should re-
ceive so much smaller pay. The employer, 
however, didn’t help me out any in this
particular. He simply gave me that 
ancient story about a man having a family
to support and a woman’s being able to 
live cheaper.
	“In union offices, of course, the rates
are equal, but as a rule you don’t find many
women employed in those places.
	“In the big newspaper offices you will
find a few women employed as distributors.
These are among the few really fat jobs
that fall almost exclusively into the hands
of women. There are probably about
twenty-five of them in New York. Their
wages, of course, depend on the work they
get to do. The compositors usually pay
them for ‘throwing in’ the type about a
third of what they get for 'setting it up,'
or fifteen cents a thousand ems. Some of
the men do this for themselves, but most of
them write on a little slip of paper the
number of thousands they want thrown in
and the distributor they wish to do it, and
put the slip on a hook reserved for the pur-
pose. When the distributor comes to the
office, she looks over the hook, takes those
which have her name on them and proceeds
to work. Some of them, it is said, make
as high as $20 a week, working from ten in
the morning until five in the afternoon.
	“Altogether I think it’s an excellent trade
for a girl. She can always get work. It is
not so hard as a great many things. It re-
quires intelligence,application and patience.
If she evinces a desire to learn all there is
to be learned and is proud of setting a neat,
clean proof and of keeping her cases in a 
neat, workmanlike condition; if she makes
up her mind that business is business and
that if her work is badly done her employer
is perfectly justified in giving her a piece of
his mind (and she ought to be ashamed to 
take refuge behind her sex and cry about
it), she’ll get on very well in the printing
bnsiness. On the other hand, if she makes
up her mind that its only a makeshift any-
how, she’s only going to stay at it a little
while until the desirable young man comes
along and her advent into matrimony re-
lieves her of the necessity of working for a
living, she won’t be a success at printing or
anything else. As a rule when a girl goes
into a printing office to learn, she is first set
to holding copy for a while, to familiarize 
her with manuscript. Next she is taught
the letters of the case and then at once 
she is a full-fledged compositor, and after
four or five years work she knows precious
little more about the trade.
	“There are a few women proof readers in
New York. This requires perhaps, an
even greater amount of knowledge, for
while the printer is justified in blindly fol-
lowing copy and misspelling or mispunctu-
ating simply because its done that way in
the copy, the proofreader is liable to have
the house about her ears if she is not able
to make plain English out of the most
illegible writing; and to remember all the
idiosyncrasies of style of half a dozen
publishing houses or editors. Spelling
must be among her infallible qualifications.
For this she gets anywhere from $12 to $21
a week, according to her skill, the sort of
work she’s employed on and the house she
 works for.”—The Journalist.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.

      Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
      EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
                                      SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,    -    -    -    AUGUST 15, 1893.


THE PRESENT CONDITION. 
     WE were greatly in hopes that we might
have known before we went to press some-
thing concerning the Woman Suffrage Con-
gress held in Chicago during the past
week, but so far nothing definite has been
obtained.
     We were of the opinion that those able
women would pass resolutions in regard to
the financial condition of the country, that
might have some weight with Congress,
now that there is a special committee on
Suffrage and the opinions of men and wo-
men on this subject and matters pertaining
thereto are considered of some importance.
     In the present state of affairs in this
country, women are and very naturally
must be as deeply interested as men if not
even more. Women will likely be the
greatest real sufferers for more men run
away from trouble than women, and we are
happy to say that there are only a few if
any women-tramps throughout the country;
suicides are not as common among women
as men in our opinion.
     Consequently women should take an
active part in ameliorating the condition if
anything can be done, and at any rate to
try and become acquainted with the situa-
tion, and see wherein their efforts may be
available.
     If economy in the home is needful most 
women are ready at any time to make any
changes possible and reduce expenses, and
under all great trials women are morally as
brave and self-denying as men are. In the
present state of affairs there is no doubt that
women would be as patriotic and self-
sacrificing as their foremothers of the revo-
lutionary times. In fact modern women
are strong-minded and face all sorts of
difficulties and dangers, such as now beset
the country heroically. There is a great
deal too, in being cheerful and hopeful and
always speaking encouragingly in the
hours of trial financial or of any kind.
Smiles are more efficacious than tears and
vastly more becoming.
     Whatever fate awaits the people of this
favored land of America, be sure it will
all be over-ruled for good for its destiny is
upward and onward though obstacles may
have to be overcome, and dark clouds threat-
en, there will always be a silver lining
somewhere,and if one has a light heart and
clear conscience he can stand firm and stead-
fast abiding the result, which is after all in
the hands of Him who holds the nations in
the hollow of His hand.
     Above all the Latter-day Saints should


not lose faith in each other, nor the
promises of the Almighty to his people,
and should always prophecy good for Zion,
and be able to lend a helping hand to those
who have not the same abiding, living
faith to sustain them. A famine for money,
does not compare with a famine for bread
which some of the Latterday Saints have
experienced and while there is bread in the
land for the hungry there is more cause for
rejoicing than sorrow. We who were here
in an early day know that bread could not
be bought for gold, the battalion boys who
are still living can testify to that fact, and
there are many interesting, historical inci-
dents and experiences of those early days
that will bear repeating to this generation,
and would be specially applicable just now.


BOHEMIAN WOMEN.

	We have had a very pleasant visit recent-
ly with Madame Josefa Humpal Zeman,
whom we had met at the Woman’s Con-
gress in Chicago. Madame Zeman is a
charming finely educated Bohemian. She
was accompanied in her visit here by two
others of her country-women, Miss Anna
Roesel and Miss Sleona Karla Marchova of
Prague, Miss Marchova represents the
Woman's Journal of Prague Bohe-
mia. She spoke in the Woman’s Con-
gress upon “The Position of Women in
Bohemia.” These women are traveling
across the continent unattended in fact came
from their home, Eastern Europe, across
the sea to America without a male guide a
fact which has not been believed by the
people of their country, but is now success-
fully proven.
	Madame Zeman is very bright and ex-
ceptionally gifted, she was a great favorite,
at the Woman’s Congress presided as
Honorary Foreign President at one of the
sessions in the Hall of Columbus and read a
paper on “Woman as a Social Leader,”
at the session where Madame Helena
Modjeska followed with hers upon
“Organized Development of Polish Wo-
men.” This was the same evening that the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. held their meeting,
therefore we did not hear these papers and
only saw newspaper comments.
	We shall have something more to say of
Madame Zeman hereafter when we finish
our “Noted Women of the Congress.”
Madame Zeman is a correspondent for two
Bohemian Journals Chicago Amerikan and
the Racine Slavic, and her aim is to estab-
lish a Slavonic Journal to be owned and
controlled by women.


[Column 1]
﻿A PLEASANT GARDEN PARTY.
	The Social entertainment given by the
Utah Woman’s Press Club the Reaper’s
Club and the Woman Suffrage Association
at Mrs. E. C. Dye’s beautiful garden on the
afternoon of Monday August 14—was one
of the most delightful gatherings of the
season. The object the ladies had in view
was to bring together in a social way old
friends and new, for interchange of thought
and pleasant converse, meantime to listen to
music and exercises of an elevating and
instructive character.
     The grounds are undoubtedly the most
charming in the City for an entertainment
of this kind, Mrs. Dye herself is an at-
tractive woman and a gracious hostess, and
the several committees from the three clubs

[Column 2]
represented, did their preparatory work
well. The afternoon was fine and all
things propitious. Among the invited
guests present were Presidents George Q.
Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, also Angus
M. Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor of the
Presidency of the Stake, of the Bishopric
of the ward Counselor J. F. Simmons, and
Bishop H. B. Clawson and Counselor
Alonzo Hyde from other wards, also Mrs.
Willmirth East of Arizona, Mrs. W. B.
Lawler of Nevada, Mrs. Anna Ivins St.
George, Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, Manti,
Hon. Aurelius Miner and wife, Mrs.
Margaret Blaine Salisbury, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Amelia F. Young, Mrs. P.
M. Staines, Mrs. Carlie Y. Caunon Mrs.
Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth Webb,
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, Mrs. Elizabeth H.
Goddard and Mrs. Fewson Smith, and others
well known in the community who were
not members of the clubs that gave the
entertainment.
    Of the eminent women associated with
these societies were Mesdames Zina D. H.
Young, M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, Emily S. Richards,M. W. Wilcox,
Phebe C. Young, E. J. Stevenson, M. Lois
Morris, E. J. MacFarlane, and P. P. Jen-
nings. Besides these the clubs represent
women Doctors, lecturers, speakers, editors,
newspaper correspondents, poets and wo-
men who are strong suffrage advocates.
     The exercises opened with organ music
by Miss Maude Pratt, followed with prayer
by President Angus M. Cannon, a very elo-
quent address upon woman suffrage and
kindred topics was given by Mrs. Julia P.
M. Farnsworth which we expect to publish
in full in our next issue of the paper.
     Music by the young ladies mandolin
club who came upon the platform in sim-
ple white dresses, their sweet faces beaming
with smiles, created a pleasing flutter of
enthusiasm and the music was thoroughly
appreciated, and the girls were persuaded
to give an encore.
     President George Q. Cannon’s address
which followed the music was exceedingly
interesting and contained much information
upon current matters, and was full of
earnest sympathy in all movements for
woman’s elevation and advancement. We
hope to be able to give the main points of
this address in the next EXPONENT. Miss
Ellis Shipp gave the “minuet” in a grace-
ful and charming way which delighted all
present. Mrs. Eva Hasbrouck recited
pathetically, “A Kansas Story, ” she has an
excellent voice and is evidently a woman of
culture. Mrs. Minnie J. Snow’s speech
was a very happy expression of thought on
woman’s life, duties and higher cultivation
and was in perfect harmony with the oc-
casion and the surroundings. Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp read an original poem in full accord
with the popular subject, woman; we shall
publish it later.
     A duet "Stay thou with me" by Mr. and
Mrs James T. Dunbar was finely rendered
and a pleasing feature of the afternoon;
young Dunbar gives promise of being as
good a singer and as great a favorite with
the public as his father, this completed the
program, as there were one or two delin-
quencies.
     Refreshments were then served and
social chat, indulged in with the ease and
freedom of out-door parties. By request
“Auld Lang Syne” was sung in which the
company joined, also “Hard times come
again no more,” the mandolin club very
graciously joining. This was followed by


sentiments from several of those present
notably Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne, President Joseph F. Smith,
President Angus M. Cannon, Mrs. E. J.
MacFarlane, Dr. R. B. Pratt and Mrs. W.
East.
	The whole affair was an enjoyable oc-
casion and the idea entertained by the
several Committees who had it in charge, to
give those who are such busy men and wo-
men a delightful afternoon was successfully
accomplished.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PICTORIAL CHART.

	Mrs. Eva Hasbrouck, of this city, has
designed and brought out a pictorial chart,
giving likenesses of the leading founders
of some of the most important missions in
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. This chart has a Key published
in pamphlet form giving some facts in
this sister’s own experience and also of the
establishment of the Church, the testimony
of the three witnesses to the Book of Mor-
mon, and a very brief sketch of the men
who opened up the Gospel in the several
countries mentioned, America, Joseph Smith,
Canada, Sidney Rigdon, England, Heber
C. Kimball, Fox Islands, Wilford Wood,
ruff, Scotland, .Orson Pratt, Ireland, Theo-
dore Curtis, Isle of Man, John Taylor.
Wales, John Needham, Society Islands,
Addison Pratt, Utah, Brigham Young,
France, William Howell, Denmark, Eras-
tus Snow, Italy, Lorenzo Snow, Ireland-
Gudmund Gudmundson, Switzerland, T,
B. H. Stenhouse, Australia, Charles W.
Wendell, Sandwich Islands, George Q.
Cannon, India, William Willis, Norway,
Hans Peter Jensen, Germany, Daniel
Garn, Sweden, Andres W. Winberg, South
Africa, William H. Walker, Gibralter,
Edward Stevenson, Holland, Paul August
Schettler, Finland, Alof A. T. Forsall,
Mexico, Moses Thatcher, Turkey, Ferdi-
nand Fritz Hintze, Samoan Islands, Joseph
H. Dean, Belgium, Charles Schneitter,
Parley P. Prat. Rufus C. Allen, South
America, Hosea Stout and other Elders to
China in 1852, Orson Pratt and W. W.
Riter Austria. New Zealand, Wm. Cook,
Russia,Roumania,Bulgaria,Egypt and other
countries have also had the Gospel car-
ried to them by the Elders at different times.
	This chart is original in arrangement
and is in the form of a tree—of Sunflowers
the faces of the Elders in the centre; on
each side the tree is a scroll with the
names and relative countries inscribed, and
the truuk of the tree has Joseph and
Hyrum Smith and three witnesses like-
nesses in it.
	Altogether the chart itself is artistic,
though the photographs are not works of
art; with this exception it could be well
recommended, and the explanation given
by Mrs. Hasbrouck in the Introductory to
the Key is quite happily written and can-
not fail to impress those who read it, there
is such a spirit of sincerity in it; she cer-
tainly deserves great credit for the pains
she has taken to perpetuate remembrance
of those whose labors have been of such 
inestimable value in spreading the Gospel.


THE SILK INDUSTRY IN UTAH.

	IT is the request of the Woman’s Silk
committee of Utah that women throughout
the Territory, who have been actively en-


gaged in sericulture send such facts and
items as they consider valuable, to the
EXPONENT office in this, city as soon as
practicable, to be embodied in a report to
the general committee in Chicago of what
has been accomplished in Utah in this en-
terprise. Reports from the several counties
that have been previously asked for by the
secretary of the committee who is now in
Chicago, must also be sent here to be com-
piled. Please remember this so that the
report may be made as complete as possible.
By order of the chairman of the committee.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE U. W. P. Club met at the EXPO-
NENT parlor Saturday evening of July 
30, the president in the chair prayer by
Lillie T. Freeze minutes of Juue meeting
read and approved. General business was
next in order. The names of Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Miss
Ada Patterson and Miss Benson were pro-
posed as members, motion put and accepted
unanimously.
	A letter was then read from the secretary
desiring to be excused for several weeks
absence. Mrs. M. A. Freeze also sent an
excuse for unavoidable absence.
	Miss Maude Pratt favored the club with
Zempa from Arnold and a selection from
Il-Trovatore the music being executed in
fine style and charming every listener, a
hearty vote of thanks followed. Lula
Greene Richards recited an original poem
entitled the “Eloquence of Action.” The
president said, “these meetings are simply 
for literary  improvement and devoted to
the press and similar things, and not for the
discussion of religion or politics as we can
secure these things in other places. No
subject should be presented here upon
which we are likely to conflict or that
will create unpleasantness.
	An animated discussion of the Sixth
Sense was followed by refreshments. The
President suggested that our next meeting
should be an evening with the poets, each
member to either write an original poem or
select something from her favorite author,
the author to be a woman.
	Meeting adjourned for one month,
benediction by Phebe C. Young.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, Sec. pro tem.


REORGANIZATION.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	As our Relief Society in the 9th, Ward
of this City has been reorganized, I
thought it would be well to apprise you of
the same.
	Owing to the death of our beloved Presi-
dent, Sister Sarah E. Groo, which occurred
June 22, 1892. since which time Sister
E.S. Webb has acted in that position until
June 6, 1893, when Bishop S. A. Woolley
and counselors were present at our general
meeting in order to organize us as a
society.
	Sister Mary Mair was set apart as presi-
dent with Sister Elizabeth A. Woolley as
first, and Sister Martha Barrow as second
counselor.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Sister
Webb for the able manner in which she
had presided since the death of Sister Groo,
which was carried unanimously.
	MARTHA BARROW, Acting Sec.
9th Ward Relief Society.


R. S. REPORTS.

EAST LOA WAYNE CO.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	DEAR SISTER—Thinking a few lines
from this little quiet and out of the way
place, would be of interest to you, we pen
you these few items.
	Our Relief Society was organized Nov.
the 3rd, 1892 with Sister Helen A. Max-
field as president; owing to the scattered
condition of the people also being working
people we have not made as rapid progress
as we would wish, our time having been
taken up with the sick a great deal, what
few have their names enrolled are very
energetic and trying to do the best they can.
We sincerely wish to have your valuable 
paper the EXPONENT in our Society and a
few of the sisters have donated together of
their little mites and as we cannot send the
silver, we hope you will accept a few
stamps, and send us your paper in the
R. S. You may send it to the president,
hoping this will be accepted, we remain
your Sisters and co-laborers in the Gospel.
Officers are as follows,
		Helen Maxfield, President.
			MARIA JAKEMAN,
Counselors.	SUSAN TURNER,
		CHRISTIANA COONS, Sec.


DAVIS STAKE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake was held at Kaysville July, 21st,
1893.
	President Susan Grant presiding. There
were present on the stand from Salt Lake
City, Sisters M. I. Horne and E. B. Wells
also Bishop Barton and others.
    Meeting opened by singing “And are we
yet alive’’ etc. Prayer by Counselor Mary
Clark, Singing, “Redeemer of Israel our
only delight.” Minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved.
    President Grant expressed her pleasure
at again meeting in the capacity of a con-
ference, “I know that it is a very busy time
here and we can’t expect many to come to
meeting. I feel to acknowledge the hand
of  the Lord in all  things. I think we are
blest in coming forth in this day, and there
are so many blessings that  we enjoy.”
Spoke about sustaining our home papers, “I
think it is our duty to do so especially the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. My counselors and
I have visited the different branches in the
county and were kindly received by the
bishops and the people; we enjoy and bene-
fit ourselves when we do our  duty. We
have come together to be blest and comfort-
ed and I think that we will be. I should
like very much to see the young prepare
themselves for this work. May the spirit
of the Lord  rest abundantly on each one
that may speak to us.”
	Sister M. I. Horne said she always felt
that the path of duty is the path of safety.
It does not matter who the speaker is if
they have the spirit of the Lord to dictate
them; said we should try and do away with
the spirit of faultfinding, spoke about the
World’s Fair and the grand exhibits they
had there. Said those who have not re-
ceived the gospel are far behind us in the
knowledge of good; showed the difference 
in opinions of people in regard to the
World’s Fair; referred to the temple and
what a grand privilege and blessing it is to
us to go there and work for the dead


well as the living. It is very necessary for
us to be economical these trying times.
There are a great many things to cheer
saints. We should improve every oppor-
tunity of preparing ourselves to keep up
with the times. May we live so as to have
the good will of our Heavenly Father.
	Sister Browet a very aged lady bore her
testimony then related a very interesting
dream, after which she spoke in tongues
which was interpreted by Sister Eliza
Clark.
	President Sarah B. Layton represented
Kaysville Society, and made some very in-
teresting remarks said she had been in the
Church fifty-two years and had never had
a doubt of the truth of the Gospel and
hoped that nothing would ever come along
that would prove a stumbling block to her
for she had a desire to press forward to the
end.
	Mrs. Helen Miller represented Farming-
ton.
	President Mary A Walker represented
Syracuse.
	President Grant then adjourned meeting
until afternoon. Singing “My God the
spring of all my joys."
	Benediction by Bishop Barton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—After the usual
opening exercises, Sister Andrews reported
South Hooper and Sister Page South Boun-
tiful, the remarks were all good aud en-
couraging.
	Sisters Wells and Horne spoke very
lengthily and interestingly about the
World’s Fair, said the exhibits were
beautiful almost beyond description.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers said she had en-
joyed the meeting and could testify that the
spirit of the Lord was here.
	Bishop Barton, “I will merely say that I
have been very much interested in the re-
marks of the sisters and also the description
of the World’s Fair, it shows the greatness
of God in inspiring the men to get up these
artistic designs. I can testify to the good
that the Relief Society has done, it is a
great help to the bishops,” spoke about the
times said we should act wisely and econo-
mise, the women can do a great deal in
connection with their husbands, spoke about
helping the poor, I pray the spirit of the
Lord will rest upon us as a people, etc.
	President Grant adjourned the meeting
for three months to East Bountiful. Sing-
ing “May the Grace of Christ our
Saviour,” etc. Benediction by President
Mary A. Walker. PHEBE C. SESSIONS,
								Sec


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SANPETE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the Mt.
Pleasant Meeting House, June 9, 1893.
President Mary Ann Price Hyde presiding.
Conference opened with singing, “O my
Father thou that dwellest." Prayer offered
by Brother Edward Cliff, singing “Come
let us anew our journey pursue.” Counsel-
or Sarah Peterson spoke of the many
privileges we enjoy as Latter-day Saints in
building temples and assisting in building
up the kingdom of God. Expressed her
pleasure in seeing Sister Hyde with us
again after so long an absence.
	Minutes of the last conference were then
read. The branches of the Relief Society
of Fairview, Spring City, Mt. Pleasant,
Chester, Milburn, Mayfield and Fountain
Green were represented by their presidents,
all testifying of the unity that existed
among the sisters. President M. A. P.

[Column 2]
Hyde felt grateful that her life had been
spared, that she again had the privilege of
meeting with the sisters; also of the great
power that attended the dedicatory services
of the Salt Lake Temple and the great
humility that was manifested by the breth-
ren “The people of the world are begin-
ning to investigate the religion of the Saints
of God. The work of the Lord is pro-
gressing as it never did before” Blessed
the sisters in the name of the Lord.
Brother C. H. Wheelock spoke of the
union, love and faith existing among the
sisters; prayed that the spirit of God
might rest upon those who are to lead us.
Singing “Sweet is the work my God, my
King,” benediction by Brother Johnson.
	AFTERNOON MEETING:—Counselor Sarah
Peterson presiding. Singing “Redeemer
of Israel.” Prayer offered by Bishop C. C.
N. Dorius. Singing “Sing to the great
Jehovah’s praise.” The branches of the
Relief Society of Ephraim, Gunnison
and Manti were represented as being in a
good condition.
	Sister Keller expressed her thankfulness
for the knowledge of the Gospel that she
had received and bore her testimong to its
divinity. “There is no pleasure in living a
sinful life, but great joy in doing the will of
God. Mothers, teach your children the
principles of the gospel as soon as they be-
gin to understand.”
	Sister Lund expressed her desire to do
right and prove faithful to the end. Sister
Nancy Acord said we will have to be very
humble and prayerful if we attain to the
blessings we have set our aim for. Sister
Hasler advised us to put in practice
the teachings we had received at this con-
ference. Sister Anderson bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the gospel. Let us
help one another in spiritual and temporal
things. Counselor Sarah Peterson spoke
giving good advice to the sisters in regard
to their duties.
	Counselor Minerva W. Snow spoke of
the good qualities of our President, Sister
Hyde and of the testimonies of the sisters,
referred to what Brother Woodruff said at
the dedication of the Temple, always speak
well of Zion. “If we do this we will not
speak against the authorities of the Church
or those who are placed over us. There
are only a few living at the present time,
that have had the privilege of seeing the
prophet Joseph. What a great work he
performed in organizing this church and
how merciful the Lord has been unto us in
gathering us from all parts of the earth and
that we have had the privilege of hearing
the testimony of the truth and receiving
it.” Spoke at some length of the duties
of the sisters and of the blessings the Lord
is bestowing upon us daily. President M.
A. P. Hyde who came in after the opening
of the meeting, was thankful that her
counselors had been so energetic in carry-
ing on the work in her absence.” We lose
a great deal by not living near unto the
Lord,” spoke in tongues, and the interpre.
tation was given by Counselor M. W. Snow-
President Canute Peterson spoke of the
promises that were made to the Latter-day
Saints in the Salt Lake Temple, if they
would keep the commandments of God.
"If we have a humble and contrite spirit,
and keep the laws of God, our sins will
be forgiven us.” Bishop Lund asked the
Lord to help us in the performance of our
duties. Singing “Do what is right.”
Benediction by Brother R. N. Allred.


THE WAR OF 1812.

	Wars mark epochs in the history of
nations. The war of 1812 was the strug-
gle of youth against the usurpations of a
one time parent; and as thrice armed is he
who has his quarrel just; the youth passed
victoriously in this the struggle as gold
through the refiner’s fire.
	Since England through her despotic
policy had forfeited the choicest of her
dependencies she lost no opportunity in
harrassing her commercial, as well as
political relations with the United States.
	The causes which led to this second strug-
gle with England, date back almost from
the Revolutionary War.
	As mountain streams converge in the
valley into the one river whose rising flood
rolls on majestically to the sea, so did the
many difficulties which the United States
Government, had to contend with, have
the result which forms the subject of this
paper.
	The somewhat desultory warfare on the
Mediterranean, the strained relations with
France, a war with that nation being
averted by the pacific rulings of Thomas
Jefferson; an almost fruitless endeavor to
procure an amicable understanding with
Spain and finally the insolence of the
English Government, led to the formal
declaration of war in 1812.
	Napoleon’s war with the British power
gave a great impetus to the commerce of
our nation. Owing to the neutral policy
affected by the United States her source of
revenue was greatly enlarged. Acting un-
der the principle that no country had any
right whatever to carry on commercial re-
lations with a nation with whom she was 
at war, England in 1805 seized upon no
less than twenty merchantmen.
	Referring to this, one historian: says
“Mr. Monroe had scarcely reached London
(from Spain) before the vessels had been
brought into the British channel and that
by condemnation of more than one of them
the Admiralty Count had settled the
principle.”
	Not only was the commerce attacked but
as John Quincy Adams termed it: “The
right of man-stealing from United States
Vessels.”
	British officers boarded American Mer-
chantmen and pressed into the English
service, any sailors, down to the beardless
middy, that they chose to make British
subjects.
	When Congress convened in the year
1806 the President’s message truly said,
“The aspect of our foreign relations is
much changed. ”
	Jefferson recommended such measures as
would strengthen the neutral policy, al-
ready adopted by the American Govern-
ment and also recommended his pet scheme
of defences by gunboat; “to have a compe-
tent number of gunboats,” and competent
meant considerable.
	Commercial intercourse with England
was forbidden.  That session of Congres-
appropriated $250,000 for building gun
boats and $150,000 for fortifying the ports
and harbors. Just as soon as the United
States would finish a gunboat, or repair a
port, England would checkmate her by
having a corresponding number of vessels
sailing in American Waters.
	Thus we see the two nations steadily
moving along the lines, to the point where
a rupture must come and the probable des-
truction of one of the powers.


[Column 1]
	On the 22nd, of October 1807, Mr. Mon-
roe as minister stopped further attempts at
settling difficulties, for as he stated pro-
ceeding to negotiate anew upon the basis of
a treaty already concluded and signed is
wholly inadmissible.  Monroe left England 
shortly after, leaving Mr. Pincking in
charge.
	Partaking of that insolent spirit the
British Naval officers lost no opportunities
in insulting the American flag.  The gross
insult to the stars and stripes on the
Chesapeake forcibly illustrates this.  On
the 23rd of June, 1807, the Chesapeake
about to proceed to the Mediterranean was
assaulted by the British cruiser Leopard,
carrying 50 guns, when about six or eight
miles from land off the Capes of Virginia
wholly unprepared for such unwarranted
attack and with the firing of a single gun
surrendered, the British Captain mustering
the Chesapeake's crew.
	The President issued a proclamation on
the 2nd of July, forbidding all British ves-
sels to enter American waters.
	Excitement was intense, the country's
flag insulted and as Mr. Jefferson observed:
"Never since the battle of Lexington was 
the country in such a state."
	In consequence of the critical condition
of foreign affairs, Congress was called on
October 25th.
	The existing conditions caused the is-
suance of a confidential message to Con-
gress showing the great and increasing
dangers to the Commercial Interests of the
United States.
	In accordance with the President's wishes,
within four days the famous "Embargo
Act" was passed.  This brought a torrent
of abuse upon the administration by the
opposition and the fealty of its friends.
The right and justice of such an act is not
for present discussion although some of the
warmest debates ever had in Congress were
had in 1808 when attempts were made to
have the bill repealed, which were finally
successful.
	At this time, Spencer in his history says:
"The country was kept in a constant fer-
ment by the preparations for the change in
the person of the Presidency and by the
measures which were as surely the forerun-
ners of war as negotiations, amicable inter-
vention, and arbitrations, are presages of
the conclusion of hostilities."
	In the fall of 1808 James Madison was
elected to the Presidency and George Clin-
ton to the Vice Presidency, John Q. Adams
tersely said in review of the troubles exist-
ting between the United States and Great
Britain, they were frantic; in fits of mutual
invasion and conquest.  Thus we enter
the administration of James Madison.
	The somewhat strained relations were
for a time eased,  in negotiation with Mr.
Erskin, minister of England.  It resulted
in the withdrawal by both nations of those
annoying and obnoxious features. Accord-
ingly a proclamation to that effect was is-
sued by the President.  It is needless to
say the proclamation was hailed with joy.
But the cloud was gathering and its
shadows were growing deeper, though a
ray of sunshine would now and then ap-
pear, only to be followed by a darkness
more dense.
	It was the lull before the storm.  It is
needless to describe the growth of revulsion
of feeling to the British Government.  We
need only say that when early in May,
1811, word was brought that an American
had again been impressed into the British 

[Column 2]
service by a British man of war, when still 
recalling the insult to the Chesapeake, the
fires of patriotism seemed touched by mem-
ory’s hand and kindled to that consuming
blaze which naught could quench but
blood, and that emitted through the jaws
of cruel war.
	Commodore Rogers was in command of
the President, 44 guns, and on May 16, 1811
made sail for the scene of the recent insult.
Seeing a man of war it was hailed and in
return fired upon the President.  The result
was the stranger,  His Brittanic Majesty’s
ship, "Little Bert," was severely crippled
losing 31 killed and wounded.
	This encounter caused the wildest excite-
ment since 1803.
	Up to this date it was estimated that
England had captured nine hundred
American Vessels; and had impressed in-
to the British Service 6000 mariners who
claimed to be citizens of the United States
and amidst all these proofs of ambition and
avarice she demanded, that the victims of
her usurpations and her violence should
receive her as the sole defender of the
rights and liberties of mankind.
	About this time, 1811, Indian outrages
on the frontier culminated in the famous
battle of Tippecanoe.   The troops and
General Harrison   successfully    subduing
the redskins.
	Matters were fast reaching a climax.  In
1812 the President laid before Congress
certain papers purporting to be from one
Henry, implicating the English Govern-
ment in an unsuccessful attempt to cause
the opponents of the administration to take 
up arms.
	The British denied having any knowl-
edge of the affair. It, however, caused a 
greater hatred than ever of the British.
England now announced through her
minister, Mr. Foster that she would not 
recede from the ground she had assumed.
An embargo was laid of United States Ves-
sels from ninety days.
	Then President Madison of whom it is
said, "could not be kicked into a fight,"
sent his war message to Congress, which
was referred in the house to the committee
on foreign affairs, Mr. Calhoun chairman.
They reported favorably and a bill declar-
ing war was passed 74 to 49.  The ques-
tion hung fire nearly two weeks and finally
passed (19 to 13) Vermont being the only 
New England State in favor of the war.
Accordingly on June 19th, 1812, the Presi-
dent issued the formal Proclamation of war.
The entire Federal Party opposed war
measures and the minority in Congress pre-
pared an address to that effect for their con-
stitution.
	John Quincy Adams on the day of
adjournment of Congress, writing to a
friend said: "It is with surprise that I hear
it pronounced, not only by the newspapers,
but by persons in authority, ecclesiastical
and civil, and political and military, that it
is an unjust and unnecessary war, that the
declaration of it was altogether unexpected,
etc.  How it is possible that a rational or
social or a moral creature can say the war
is unjust is to me utterly incomprehensible.
How it can be said it is unnecessary is
very mysterious.  I have thought it both
just and necessary for five or six years.
How it can be said to be unexpected is
another wonder.  I have expected it for
more than five and twenty years, and have
had reason to be thankful it has been post-
poned so long."

[Column 3]
	As a fitting termination to its labors
Congress by resolution requested the Presi-
dent to recommend to the people a day of
fasting and prayer in view of the condition
of affairs.
	Accordingly on July 9th, the President
issued his proclamation recommending the
third Thursday in August to be set apart 
as "a day of public humiliation and prayer,
to be observed by the people of the United 
States in offering up supplications to Almigh-
ty God, for the safety and welfare of the
states, his blessing on their arms, and the
speedy restoration of peace."
			(To be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FIGHTING THE GIPSY MOTH.
	The Massachusetts Agricultural Society
employ one hundred men in fighting the
gipsy moth. Each man has charge of a
district about a mile square. Whenever
moth clusters and nests are found, they are
collected by the wagonload and burned.
Paris green in large quantities has been used
frequently in spraying the infected trees
and grass. The work of extermination has
been going on for the last five years, and
until this year the results were far from en-
couraging. The pests had spread over two
hundred square miles in the northeastern
part of the state, causing desolation equal
to that by fire or flood, and $275,000 had
been appropriated by the state legislature
for their destruction. The moths are said
to have been introduced in this way: M.
Trouvellot came to this country from
France about twenty years ago, and settling
at Medford, studied the cultivation of the
silkworm. One day he placed half a dozen
eggs on the window ledge of his home.
During a brief absence the eggs were blown
off and scattered through the yard, so that
their recovery was impossible. From these
eggs were produced the army of moths that
have done much to depopulate a large part
of Massachusetts. Professor Lintner has
suggested the discovery and introduction of
a parasite that would feed upon and so
destroy the moths.


THERE is a very large and very knowing
class of misanthropes who rejoice in the
name of grumblers, persons who are so
sure that the world is going to ruin that
they resent every attempt to comfort them
as an insult to their sagacity, and accord-
ingly seek their chief consolation in being
inconsolable, and their chief pleasure in
being displeased.—E. P. Whipple.
	MR. SWINBURNE has written a long
poem on Grace Darling. His early life
was passed in the locality which was the
scene of her heroism, and he knew her
father.


WITH A PORTRAIT.
ACCEPT this shadow of your absent friend,
	As a peace offering, and a Christmas token
The lips are dumb—would they might speak for
	me!

	For words are jewels that are fitly spoken. 
If, in the years to come, when pleasures wain
	You think of me with but one fond regret
That thus we part, ’twill pay the debt of pain
	That fills my heart that we have ever met.
								E. J.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SABBATH DAY.
	KEEP Holy the Sabbath-day, attend
your meetings, mingle with the Saints (not
with the outside world) stay away from
Lake resorts, however attractive they may
be made to appear; such pleasures are
seductive, false and fleeting, and will land
all who participate in them into such difficul-
ty that it will be hard to extricate themselves.
The Sabbath is a day that was "from the
first” a day devoted to God, not a part of
the Sabbath or two short hours at the
Tabernacle, and the rest at Saltair, Garfield
Syracuse or Calder’s. It is your duty to
uphold the priesthood and attend Sabbath
School and ward meetings as well as the
Tabernacle and to all calls made upon you
in a Church capacity. To break the Sab-
bath is lowering in the estimation of the
Saints and also setting a bad example. If
we are not(we should be) strictly Sab-
batarians, these hard times should teach us
that we are running far beyond our means
and the dollars spent, sacrilegiously will be
needed to pay our just debts, and to keep
the wolf from the door even before the
summer is over; then what about the long
dreary winter; have we as a people learned
a new lesson, the right to hold positions as
Saints, and yet be Sabbath breakers? Can
we see better times that we attend these
places by the thousands? Let us be wise,
reflect before it is too late, lest worse times
come upon us.
ANON.


A GLIMPSE OF UTAH LAKE.
A score of miles toward the west,
	The lake lies spread with sunset sheen,
A top the highest peak I rest,
	And count the hills that lie between
The valley and the mountain crest.

The changing hues of sunset die
	In misty twilight, dull, opaque;
The distant sea-gulls slowly fly,
	A crescent moon hangs o’er the lake, 
Low down a fading evening sky.
LAURA ST. VRAIN


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT is useful is intrinsically ornamen-
tal.
	THE world forgives a great deal in a man
who is kind to his family.
	THE man who controls himself will also
control many other people.
	IF woman lost us Eden, such as she
alone can restore it.—Whittier.
	THE highest and most profitable lesson
is the true knowledge of ourselves.
	BUT one thing on earth is better than the
wife—that is the mother.—Leopold Shafer.
	THE only thing which every one can do,
and the only thing which any one needs do,
is his duty.
	BETTER follow the sternness of a truth
than the glittering delusion of a lie. Men
often follow lies because they shine—T. T.
Lynch.
	IN men of the highest character and
noblest genius there generally exists in-
satiable desire of honor, command, power,
and glory.


SINCERITY is to speak as we think, be-
lieve as we pretend, act as we profess, per-
form as we promise, and really be what we
would seem and appear to be.
	IT is better to praise a man for his vir-
tues, although they may be few and his
faults many, than to condemn him for his
faults and forget his virtues.
	A DIVINE person is the prophecy of the
mind; a friend is the hope of the heart.
Our beatitude waits for the fullfillment of
these two in one. Ages are opening this
moral force. All force is the shadow or
symbol of that.
	ADMIRATION is a very short-lived pas-
sion that immediately decays upon growing
familiar with its object, unless it be still fed
with fresh discoveries, and kept alive by a
new perpetual succession of miracles rising
to its views.—Addison.
	EVERY sensible man who has the means
and opportunity recuperates himself by
frequent pauses for recreation. He does
not defer his period of pleasure until the
closing months of a worn-out life. He is
too wise to expect impossibilities of nature
the recuperation of an utterly exhausted
body. He has had his comfort and enjoy-
ment in due season, and is grateful to
Heaven that he possesses the means to
procure all the comforts of life, which he
wisely uses to prolong his existence.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

(To the memory of Sister Annie Smith Crane.)

	Who departed this life April 22nd, 1893. Sister
Crane was born at the village of great Staughton
Huntingtonshire England on Dec. 5th 1857. Was
married to Geo. Edward Crane Oct. 13th 1881,
in Salt Lake City by President D. H. Wells. Was
the mother of five children, two girls and one boy
survive her, and also a loving husband to mourn
her loss. She was a devoted wife and mother.
	At a meeting at the Fourth Ward R. S.
Provo the following Resolutions were adopted.
	Whereas God has seen fit in his Alwise Provi-
dence to call from our midst our beloved Sister
Crane who has been a faithful teacher in the 4th,
Ward, a devoted friend to the poor and a wise
counselor in her family, and
	Whereas, it is fitting that she be held in honor-
able rememberance, therefore be it
	Resolved; by the Sisters of the Relief Society of
the 4th Ward that while we mourn not as those
who have no hope yet realize that we have lost
a faithful friend and sister who died as she had
lived in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Resolved; that the resolutions be spread upon
the ward record of the Relief Society, and that
copies be sent to the Woman's EXPONENT for
publication.
MARGARET M WATSON, President.
Committee.		JANET HARRISON,
				ADELAIDE MELDRUM,
				ANN WILLIAMS.


OBITUARIES.

	SISTER ELIZABETH POWELL the beloved wife
of Brother Thomas Powell, departed this life at
Marriott Weber County, April 27th, 1893. She
was a native of Carmarthen South Wales; born
September 18th, 1822, was baptized in 1854, emi-
grated to Utah 1869. She soon after joined our
Relief Society; was a very honest upright, kind
and charitable woman, a faithfnl wife and kind
mother, a good neighbor and friend. When in
her native land she made a comfortable home for
the Mormon Elders, who preached the Gospel in
that land.
	After much suffering she died in full faith in
the Gospel of Jesus Christ and in hopes of a
glorious resurrection.
	We extend our sympathy to the bereaved
family.
				ANN BICKINGTON, President.
				CATHARINE PARRY, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	[To the memory of Mrs. Elizabeth Baldwin
Harrison born Oct. 15th, 1815, and died May 20th,
1893.]
	Sister Harrison has been a faithful Latterday
Saint over forty years and a member of the
Relief Society since its organization in 1868 and a
teacher many years we feel the loss of an active
teacher, in her demise.
	Whereas: Our Heavenly Father in His divine
dispensation has seen fit to remove from our
midst by death, our beloved sister who has borne
many afflictions, trials and lonely hours, having
left her native land for the Gospel sake, leaving
all that was dear to her, an only daughter whom
she was not allowed to bring, and in her seven-
tieth year returned to seek her and in a very
providential way found her, but she would not
return with her.
	Resolved, that we the members of the Relief
Society of the First Ward Provo City do cherish
her memory and feel to emulate her example in
the performance of her duties as a teacher.
	Resolved that we sympathize with the family
in the loss of a kind and affectionate wife and
mother.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society and
sent to the local papers for publication.
	MARY JOHN, MARY FARRER, AGNES FARRER,
SARAH B. SAUNDERS and KATE FARRER, Com.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
[--] country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City
R.K.THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnet cleaned and retrimmed
Feather curled, etc. Stamping dorc to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STBEET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


Manti
Rebecca Warshiem
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 22.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1893. NO. 4


CONTENTS: 
	History of Music in Utah—Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son. 	Letter to the Exponent—E. A. 	Passing
Thoughts—Camelia. 	University of Utah.
Address of President George Q. Cannon. Writ-
ten for the U. W. P. C., R. C., W. S. A. Recep-
tion—J. P. M. Farnsworth. Notes and News.
Literary Work of the Past—Zine S. Whitney.

	EDITORIAL. — Woman Journalism in Utah.
Editorial Notes.

	POETRY.—Women of the West—Emily H.
Woodmansee. Sphere of Woman—Ellis R.
Shipp M. D.


WOMEN OF THE WEST.
		BY EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
HEROIC women of the West,
	Intrepid as illustrious man, 
When Progress, westward forced a way,
	The gentler sex was in the van.
Stout-hearted helpers—mates and peers
	Of Braves who faced the setting sun; 
Companions of the pioneers—
	What have not Western women done?

Privations man could hardly bear,
	Which taxed his utmost fortitude,
Weak woman suffered, and withal,
	Endured the cares of motherhood.
Too often in the early days
	Comforts were scarce or, out of reach,
Yet what the wealthiest had was shared
	Fraternal offerings unto each.

Courage and faith and self denial,
	Were cultivated day by day.
Good nature conqured many a trial,
	That fell in Western women’s way.
But well they loved the mountain air, 
	The peaceful vales seemed sacred ground;
And grateful hearts expanded, where
	Souls never need be conscience-bound.

Hail! western wives! ye’ve reared a race,
	A nation might be proud to claim;
Daughters and sons of noble sires,
	And mothers worthy of the name;
Whose treasured babes from living founts
	Imbibed the love of right forsooth,
The staunch integrity that counts
	For freedom, equity and truth.

The seeds of liberty, for years,
	Round western altars have been sown;
Nourished by hopes, or fed with tears,
	Surprisingly has freedom grown.
Columbia’s glory, strength and boast
	The constitution broad and grand,
Is honored by a countless, host;
	Throughout this spacious Western land.

The East can boast of dauntless sires—
	Of patriotic mothers true,
But liberties effulgent fires,
	Are kindled in the West, anew,
The Western women wield, for good,
	A mighty and a growing power,
And with the world’s brave sisterhood,
	Will win their royal rightful dower.
Salt Lake City 1893.


HISTORY OF MUSIC IN UTAH.
		DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.
	IN THE growth of civilization among
nations, as well as in the settlement and
opening up of new countries and territories,
music is the first outgrowth of the arts,
taking precedence in the unfolding of social
development of  every genius but that of
poetry. The peculiar form of expression
in music is also an index of national char-
acter. The pioneer settlers who traversed
the plains and crossed the Rocky Moun-
tains to make homes in the valley of the
Great Salt Lake, were certain in the early
stage of their peculiar civilization to mani-
fest the genius of music. Being so emi-
nently religious in their tone of character,
music would naturally form a very impor-
tant part of their worship, and the hosts of
Israel beguiled many an hour of their
weary march across the Continent by sing-
ing the songs of Zion.*
	The first musical organization formed in
Utah, was that of the Nauvoo Brass Band,
a company of fifteen musicians under the
leadership of Captain William Pitt, who
starting from Nauvoo with the first com-
pany of the pioneers, traveled as far as
Grand River, where [---] [--
stances compelled them to remain and earn
sufficient means to enable them to continue
their journey to the mountains.
	In 1850, most of the members of the
band having reached Salt Lake City, they
once more re-organized under Captain Pitt,
and around them cluster the first musical
reminiscences of the Mormon people. For
two years the band discoursed sweet melo-
dies on every anniversary and local cele-
bration, gave concerts, and assisted the
first dramatic association in its representa-
tions. In 1851, Dominico Ballo, an Italian,
highly endowed with the musical genius of
his race, came to Salt Lake City, having
been for a number of years previously
bandmaster at West Point. He was one
of the best clarionetists in the United
States, a fine composer and leader, and his
name is still held in reverence by many of
the old pioneers, who will tell you with a
sigh and shake of the head, that “we have
never had any music out here since Ballo
died.”
	In tone, style and execution, he was
unrivalled, and of all the excellent clarionet
soloists who have visited this city with
Gilmore’s band, and other military combi-
nations, not one has been able to produce
the tone that Ballo could draw from his
instrument. Soon after his arrival he or-
ganized Ballo’s band of twenty instru-
ments, viz, seven B flat clarionets, one E
flat played by himself, two piccolos, two
first cornet, two second cornets, one oph-
icleide, the bass horns, one tenor trombone
and drums. This combination created
great excitement on its first appearance and
continued to gain power and renown by
its skilful rendition of some of the most
difficult compositions of the day. Later
he assumed the directorship of the theatre
orchestra in the Social Hall, composing or
[Column 2]
arranging all the music used by the com-
pany for several years. In 1855, Ballo’s
Hall was erected by the band for practice
and concert purposes, and is still one of the
old landmarks of the city. In 1861 Ballo’s
health failed, having played the clarionet
for forty years, he had passed beyond the
limit usually alloted to the lives of per-
formers on wind instruments, and on Sep-
tember 8th, he was found dead in the
yard, having instantly expired from apo-
plexy or heart disease. The band he had
labored so hard to perfect, played at his
funeral, but did not long remain together
after his death. But few of his composi-
tions are extant. The best known were,
an arrangement of the duet, “Hear me
Norma,” for flute and clarionet, with
orchestra accompaniment;Governor Young’s
Grand March; Governor Young’s Quick-
step; General Wells’ Grand March, and
the orchestral parts to the old hymn, “O
my Father.”
	In 1853, David O. Calder, the pioneer
class teacher of vocal music came to Salt
Lake City and settled over Jordan, where 
he taught the first singing school in the
Territory. In 1861 he organized two
classes of two hundred members each, for
instruction in Curven tonic sol-fa method,
[---] the first introduction of the
system in America. He compiled, arranged,
and printed the class books used. In 1862
Mr. Calder organized the Deseret Musical
Association, composed of two hundred
picked singers, from the different classes
under his tuition. This society gave sev-
eral concerts in the theater and Tabernacle
with marked success, and during its exis-
tence stimulated musical culture among
the people of Utah. Mr. Calder subse-
quently established the first musical busi-
ness in Utah, and in connection with
Professor Careless, imported a large num-
ber of pianos, organs, brass and string
instruments, and a due supply of the best
music published in Europe and America.
	In 1862, Professor Charles J. Thomas,
who had for years been associated with
some of the principal theatre orchestras in
London, came to Salt Lake City and at
once took charge of the orchestra in the
new Salt Lake Theater, then just opened,
and under his leadership it maintained for
several years a high standard of excellence. 
	As conductor of the Tabernacle Choir,
Professor Thomas did some excellent work, 
and he long held a ruling musical position.
Professor John Tullidge also deserves men-
tion at this time, as fine tenor singer and
composer. His name will be remembered
as long as his anthem “How beautiful upon
the Mountains’’ delights the ears of a Salt
Lake audience.
	The man who did most for the early
musical progress of Salt Lake City, and the
establishment of the legitimate profession
is undoubtedly Professor George Careless.
Born in London, and trained with some of
the greatest instrumentalists of the day,
under the batons of such masters as Sir
Michael Costa, Sir Jules Bendict and other
famous conductors. Mr. Careless brought
to Salt Lake City in 1865, such musical


[Column 1]
genius, brilliant execution and talent for
leadership, as produced a complete revolu-
tion in musical circles, and marks an epoch
in the development of the divine art that
led to the attainment of the present high
standard of musical taste and culture in
this community.
	During the years that he held the leader-
ship of the theater orchestra, he produced a
mumber of musical plays, including Mac-
beth, The Brigand, Aladdin and Cinder-
alla—for the two latter he composed the
entire music, consisting of solos, duets,
choruses and dramatic interludes.
	During this engagement he conducted
the first opera given in Utah, the “Grand
Duchess,” by the Howson Troupe. In
1875 the great musical event in the city,
was the performance of the oratorio of the
Messiah, by the Philharmonic,Society,under
the training and conductorship of Professor
Careless, with over two hundred performers
and a full orchestra. The performance was
a great musical triumph, and was pronoun-
ced by the critics of the day, a presentation
far superior both in its vocal and orchestral
excellence to the performance of the same
oratorio in San Francisco, with Madam
Anna Bishop and other vocal celebrities in
the principal parts. In the instrumenta-
tion, the first violins, and the cornet obliga-
to of Mr. Mark Croxall, were particularly
fine, while among the vocalists Mrs. and
Miss Haydon, Messrs. Williams, Black and
Hollister, deserve particular mention. But
the palm of excellence belonged without
any question to Mrs. Careless, the wife of
Professor Careless, whose rendition of “I
know that my Redeemer liveth” was sim-
ply perfection. Her pure sweet bell-like
tones, and her exquisite delivery, intense
with feeling [illegible line do to page fold] selection to
the exalted pitch of epic song. The fact
that this oratorio could be executed in such
perfection by a local association, and call
out a high class audience fully capable of
appreciating such music proves that, as has
been often affirmed, Salt Lake City even
then, was one of the greatest musical cities
of the world,a pre-eminence that her subse-
quent history proudly maintains.
	Professor Careless also conducted the
celebrated Parepa Rosa concerts in 1868,
the Anna Bishop concert in the Tabernacle,
and the grand Wilhelm concerts in the
theater in 1880, and received from the great
virtuoso the highest praise and many marks
of personal esteem.
	In 1879, Professor Careless gave Sullivan’s
opera of “Pinafore” and later “The Mi-
kado,’’both brilliant successes,and rendered
exclusively by home talent. In 1885, he
succeeded in organizing the largest local
orchestra ever brought together in this city,
consisting of forty-five members. During
his partnership in the musical business with 
Mr. David O. Calder, the firm published
the “Salt Lake Musical Times.” the first
musical publication in the Rocky Moun-
tains, and under his leadership of fourteen
years, the musical services by the Taber-
nacle choir reached their crowning excel-
lence. To Mrs. Lavinia Careless, the lam-
ented wife of Professor George Careless,
belongs by right of her rare genius, the
highest niche of fame among our musical
stars. With a voice of phenomenal purity
and resonance, she so educated Salt Lake
City audiences to quality and sublimity of
music, that only a Patti could sing here
without being adversely compared with
her. Her rendition of oratorio solos was
simply exquisite; and no heart could listen

[Column 2]
unmoved to the glorious strains of that
angelic voice, too early called from earth to
heaven. Her sudden demise in 1885, left
a vacant place in our galaxy of stars that
has not yet been filled. Among our local
musicians who have done much to develop
musical taste both by education and talent,
may be mentioned Professor Jos. J. Daynes
who has presided at the Tabernacle organ
since 1867, with the exception of a few
months spent in New York under the
tuition of Mr. G. W. Morgan, also Orson
Pratt, an able teacher of the piano, organ,
harmony and counterpoint.
	In giving the musical history of Salt
Lake City, we must not omit reference to
the grand organ in the Tabernacle, the
building of which was commenced in 1866,
when all the materials necessary had to be
obtained from the east and hauled across
the plains in wagons. The architect and
designer of this magnificent instrument
was Mr. Joseph Ridges, who worked on it
for several years, but to Mr. Johnson
belongs the credit of bringing its present
perfect completion. It has now four mam-
als and pedal, fifty-seven stops, and two
thousand six hundred and forty-eight
pipes, supplied with wind by three large
bellows, operated by two hydraulic motors.
In its completed form, situated in one of
the most perfect acoustic buildings in the
world, it is justly an object of pride to our
city, and the admiration of tourists. Al-
most equal to it is the organ in the new
Congregational Church, and beside these
the pipe organ in St. Mark’s Cathedral, and
and in the Assembly Hall, are very fine
instruments and above the average.
	When Professor Careless resigned the
conductorship of the Philharmonic Society,
Professor Radcliffe came to Salt Lake City
and took the vacant position, and a year
later gave the Creation in the theatre with
marked success. Professor Radcliffe is a
great organist, and his recitals given on the
Tabernacle organ prove his complete mas-
tership of that noble instrument.
	Among our noted violin solists, Mr.
Willard Weihe stands in the front rank. A
protegee of Ole Bull, for whom he played
at the early age of ten years, he had by
force of his genius and perseverance worked
himself up to a very high position, and
under the tuition of the celebrated Vieux-
temps, developed a marvelous technique
that has been rarely equaled except by a
virtuoso. A long list of performers on
piano, organ, violin and other instrnments
might be given, which together with a
number of vocalists of unusual excellence,
justify the claim that we are in Salt Lake
especially a music loving and appreciative
people, and that no Territory, and but few
States in our land can equal Utah in the
progress made in the divine art. Especially
is this the truth with regard to choral
music. Salt Lake leads with her Choral
Society three hundred in number; the Tab-
ernacle Choir four hundred and fifty in
number—the largest probably in America,
heads the list of thirty choirs belonging to
[-]he various churches in the city, average
not less than twenty voices each, making a
grand total of six hundred choristers. Add
to these the two hundred and fifty choirs in
the various towns and settlements of the
Territory, and it shows at least five thous-
and choristers taking part in divine worship
every Sunday, and if the Sunday School
children, who all take part in the song
worship of the day be counted, they will
swell the number to thirty-five thousand.

[Column 3]
	To Professor Evan Stephens, a practical
musician and composer of considerable
native genius as well as professional study
and training is due the success of the
general movement in class teaching in the
Sunday Schools of the Territory possessed
of rare personal magnetism, a born musical
leader, with perfect choral control, he
sways the hundreds of children on the stage
with a few simple movements of his baton,
maintaining a perfect tempo with the most
exquisite variation of forte and piano. The
National Concert given in the Tabernacle
on the 22nd, Feb. 1893 was one of his
most unique efforts, and demonstrated the
possibility of a high standard of musical
training for children, thus educating a
generation of musicians who will in future
years maintain Utah’s Musical supremacy
in the Rocky Mountains.
	In the public schools, the leading day
schools, academies and colleges as well as
the University of Utah, music forms a part
of the regular curriculum of study, and
scholars of all ages enjoy in Salt Lake City
musical advantages equal to those afforded
in Boston, Chicago, or Cincinnati, the only
difference being in the number of lessons
given and not in the quality.
	There are few homes in Utah without a
piano, or organ, and brass bands are num-
erous throughout the territory, while guitar
and mandolin clubs delight the young
people and male glee clubs and quartetts
are being organized extensively. Proud
as we my justly be of our past musical
achievements and present standing, our
future possibilities are far more glorious and
with perseverance in well doing and a more
united effort among musicians and lovers of
music, it is possible for Utah to become
world famed for her unequaled musical
excellence and progress.


26	WOMANS EXPONENT﻿


LETTER TO THE EXPONENT.
Editor Exponent.
	THE editorial in the last EXPONENT set
me to thinking quite seriously. It is cer-
tainly true that the little cost of the paper
cannot compare with its value to the wo-
men of Utah. No one can ever claim to
have read in the EXPONENT, words of ex-
pressions other than pure, elevating and
sensible. True it contains few of those
worthless fashion hints and house-keeping
and rearing children recipes and remedies;
feeling a mother’s and a wife’s own
instincts and circumstances can better guide
her in those duties, but it contains pages of
useful information pertaining to woman’s
work both at home and abroad. Its little
pages contain some of the sweetest songs
our home poets have sung, and some of the
brightest thoughts our authors have penned,
beside rare selections and articles and stories
of merit and interest. Nor do I extol the lit-
tle semi-monthly visitor too highly when I
say it is invaluable to the women of Utah,
and I wonder do they half realize what an
educator the EXPONENT has been to them
these many years. Perhaps we appreciate
our papers and books like our friends. The
more when we have lost them, but I hope
not, and I hope for the sake of the women
of Utah we will not have to lose our friend
the EXPONENT, for it is a bright little mes-
senger to our homes bringing us newsy and
pleasant thoughts, and binding us closer
and friendlier in our social industrial and
charitable work.
E. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT    27﻿


SPHERE OF WOMAN.
WOMAN'S SPHERE! I hesitate for I can scarcely
	hope
That I may courage find, with this great theme to
	cope,
Yet who more sure to comprehend her hope than
	woman,
And with true sympathy her rugged path illumine

Yes ’tis the right of woman to let her light shine
	forth,
So all may see its beauty, and emulate her worth,
Not by aggressive words, and clamoring for fame
But by her noble actions she wins without ac-
	claim.

Woman with her brother-man a heritage hath
	gained,
The earth, the sea and elements contained
Are theirs, to use for good,all for a worthy end;
With many other gifts our Father’s mercies send.

So she should wiser grow, and seek to cultivate
The powers of her mind,and ev’ry heavenly trait,
Intelligence and truth should fill the pliant mold;
Extending to its utmost; Possibilities untold!

’Tis her right to raise her voice a just cause to de-
	fend;
Let kindness, love and mercy in all her actions
	blend,
To aid the weak, soothe the sick and cheer the
	sadden’d heart,
And pure refining virtues to every soul impart.

Again it is her right to aid in forming laws
By which her sex is judged, in the one great com-
	mon cause;
To cast her vote for honest men in national affairs
Thus purifying politics, while she the burden
	shares.

But of all God-given rights that womankind pos-
	sesses
Is that of wife and mother! Think how many
	homes she blesses
With her tender love. ’Tis her lot to live for
	others!
Divine unselfishness! Ah! these noble wives and
	mothers.

Just one more right I’d mention on this auspicious
	day,
The right to love each other, and kindly tributes
	pay.
Engage in social converse, enjoy a sweet com-
	munion,
Let heart come close to heart, and angels join
	our union.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Salt Lake City Aug. 14, 1893.


PASSING THOUGHTS.
	IT is the hazy ripe summertime. The
poets rhapsodize over the beautiful spring-
time and the months of violets, daisies and
roses, and people say let us prepare for the
dreadful summer by seeking the mountains,
or cooler climates,but can any one find fault
with this delightful ripe August.  The
morning and evening air is cool almost to
chilliness and the rich sunshine of the day
but ripens the fruits and the grains for our
gleaning.  A walk by the meadows, where
the air is fragrant with the new mown hay
where the silken tassels of the corn wave
in the summer breeze, and the harvester
reaps the golden grain where the music of
the birds, the brooks and the gentle winds
greets one on every side, the soul is filled
with sublimest thoughts and beautiful
nature draws one near to nature’s God.
One feels as full of thanks and praise to the
heavenly Father as the field is full of grain
and one wonders with such abundance on
every side how man can e’er complain.
[column 2]
	All things are fitted to their time and place
the sorrows of our life but make that life
the rich[-] even as the deep warm summer
enriches the earth.  How delightful it
sometimes is to throw aside the cares and
worries of the day and take a lonely ram-
ble.  I wonder not at the life of the natural-
ist, I only wonder that all mankind do not
take more to such a life.  It would make
us better I am sure for at every step so
much of wonder and of interest beset us.
The world is so busy or at least the people
of the world and they all are rustling and
jostling against each other in a mad rush
for what? wealth, money; and yet we slight
the very things in life we give our money
for.  It has been possible to live where
money was seldom or never seen and to live
comfortably and well.  God has provided
this beautiful earth with a rich abundance
of everything for our requirements, and
man’s thought and ingenuity have taught
us how to use them.  Are we grateful
enough for the many things we have.  If
so why are we always longing and seeking
for more.  I seldom or never sit at table
but before anything is partaken of grace is
pronounced on the food, and I wonder if
those who sit around the board ever think
during that grace of its sacredness. 
	We are so early taught about the thought
we must exercise when partaking of the
sacrament, and how much it means to us,
but are we so often, or so carefully taught
to seriously consider grace before eating.
I fear not and in many homes it is but a
form quickly and thoughtlessly gone
through with, that the eating may begin.
Still in that divinest of all prayers we are
taught to ask the Lord for our daily bread
and feeling through that, that he is the
Giver we ought never to partake of it with
out offering Him our thanks and praise,
not in a meaningless way but with our
whole hearts.
	An eastern paper devotes two whole
columns telling about giving away an old
baby carriage to a family because the little
girl had to lend it so much, I know a lady
who did the very same thing not long ago
and never thought any more about it either;
how easy it is to become a heroine now if
she had only worked that through a news-
paper, she might have had a column written
about her and perhaps one of those beauti-
ful cuts to accompany it, but true charity
does not seek public approbation, it comes
from the heart and is as spontaneous and
simple as a baby’s smile without a thought
of what may follow.  How many thousand
deeds of kindness and love could one per-
form.  Daily opportunities occur for us
all and it makes one better when the day is
spent to feel some one has been made the
happier by our kindness, be it in words or
deeds.  Could a record be kept of the lit-
tle kindnesses and courtesies most mothers
and house wives preform in a day I think 
these estimable persons would be quite as-
tonished, and perhaps it is better that they
do not know for a knowledge of one’s
charity is likely to curb it or at least to
cause the hitherto unselfish nature some
conceit.  How beautiful to live as Jesus
taught.  Let not the left hand know
what the right hand giveth.	CAMELIA.


MRS. WILLIAM CLAFLIN. of Boston,
whose guest the poet Whittier usually was
when he was in town, has prepared an at-
tractive volume of personal reminiscences
of him. Miss Edna D. Proctor, has con-
tributed a fine poem.


UNIVERSITY OF UTAH.
	THE University of Utah is now in a
most excellent condition. It has been a
continued effort on the part of the Regents
to put the University on equal standing
with the majority of other like institutions
in the United States and they have now
succeeded in doing so.
	Important additions to its forces have
been made for the coming school year. Dr.
James E. Talmage, a graduate of Lehi
University, and a well known educator of
our Territory, has been appointed Professor
of Metallurgy and Biology. Joseph F.
Merrill, a graduate of Ann Arbor and a
student in Chemistry at Cornell University
whose chemical laboratories are the finest in
the United States, is to do part of the work
in Chemistry as Assistant Professor. Byron
Cumming, a graduate of the Oswego Nor-
mal school and also of Rutger’s College
and who has been a successful educator for
a number of years, is to assist in Latin and
English. William D. Neal, who has been
doing post-graduate work at Cornell
University, is to assist in Geology and -
Mineralogy. Joseph P. White, who has
been doing post-graduate work at Cornell
University in Physics and Mathematics will
give some of his time in doing work for the
mathematical department besides carrying
on the work he has heretofore done in
Physics.
	All of the departments will be greatly
strengthened by these accessions, as each
man named has been selected on account of
his unusual fitness for the position to which
he has been appointed.
	The faculty of the University has thus
been increased and its standard has been
raised to a position that must command the
respect of all intelligent persons. No
degree in any course is given except for
four years of actual work. It is the pur-
pose of the University authorities to exert
an influence toward elevating the standard 
of work done in our Territory, for which
degrees may be issued and it is sincerely
hoped that all educators will cooperate in
promoting an object of such great impor-
tance.
	The University will open Sept. 18th.
During the first two or three days, com-
mencing at 9 a. m. entrance examinations
will take place. The prospects are that the
University will be crowded with earnest,
industrious students from all parts of the
Territory.


MISSCELLANEOUS.

	THE way to do a great thing is never to.
neglect any little thing.
	TEMPERANCE is a tree that has content-
ment for its root and peace for its fruit.
	WE attract hearts by the qualities we
display; we retain them by the qualities
we possess.—Suard.
	PERFECT valor consists in doing without
witnesses all we should be capable of doing
before the whole world.—Rochefoucauld.
	POETRY is the breath and finer spirit of
all knowledge; it is the impassioned ex-
pression which is the countenance of all
science.—Wordsworth.
	A FATHER inquires whether his boy
can construe Homer, or understand Horace,
but how seldom does he ask, or examine or
think whether he can restrain his passions, 
whether he is grateful, generous, humane,
compassionate, just,and benevolent.—Lady
Hervey.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs.  City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 1, 1893.


WOMAN JOURNALISM IN UTAH.

	Almost every phase of women in journal-
ism was presented in the Press Congress
held in May in Chicago, except that of wo-
men in the Rocky Mountain region, the
barren desert of the great inter-mountain
country lying near the American Dead
Sea.
	The Pilgrim women who journeyed
across the trackless waste towards the set-
ting sun, and who were filled with the
enthusiasm born of religious themes and
theories, were also filled with the inspira-
tional and prophetic influences that burst
forth spontaneously in song and verse, not
beautiful perhaps in diction, and not always
correct in rhythm, but strong and forcible
in the expression of the truth.  These
brave mothers, these heroic daughters,
born and nurtured in the cultivated East,
bearing the heavy burdens of pioneer life
in the wilderness (so to speak) had still in
their souls the inspiration of the hour, and
the consciousness of the possibilities wait-
ing for the keynote of woman's upward and
onward march.  Besides the everyday life
in camp and pilgrimage to a promised land,
was the ever present witness of future
destiny that was reserved for the faithful.
	These were a stimulus to poetry and to
refinement, and all along the toilsome
journey, the songs of birds, the glorious
sunsets, the bluest of blue canopies at
night, when the stars were shining, and
the moon sailing on high, these to the
young, ardent and impassioned disciples of
an abiding faith (and indeed to some of
maturer years,) were fountains that bub-
bled with a charming effervescence, that set
their souls to the music of nature in its 
broadest, highest and most exalted sense.
	After reaching the valley of the Great
Salt Lake the first effusions that appeared
in print were the songs of Eliza R. Snow
and of Sarah E. Carmichael,and these were
followed by others from year to year, who
contributed both prose and verse to the
newspapers early established by the found-
ers of the new Territory.  Many names
dear to the hearts of the people might be
mentioned in this connection; some have
passed away, others still live and are ad-
ding to the current literature of the West.
Foremost of those we miss from our roll of
honor, besides our poet-laureate, Eliza R.
Snow, are Hannah T. King and Mary J.
Tanner.  Those who still remain of the
number are making a record that will go
down to posterity in the history of the
Rocky Mountain country.
	
[Column 2]
	The Deseret News established in 1850,
was the first opening for effusions of
this sort and has always given encourage-
ment to women writers of merit.  After-
wards the Salt Lake Herald whose
columns were free to women, who had any-
thing to offer worthy of notice, somewhat
later still "The Utah Magazine," which
only survived a short time, and in 1866 the
Juvenile Instructor both these magazines
were open to women contributors.
	But the time came when women were
not satisfied to be heard only through these
papers and established one of their own,
wherein they could express themselves on
all subjects and represent their particular
views and organizations more definitely and
more effectively.
	The ballot had been given to the women
of Utah in February 1870, and from that
time more particularly, women took a
greater interest in public matters, and were
awakened to the responsibility of the
franchise through its practical application
in the affairs of public life.  A growing
sentiment prevailed among both men and 
women in favor of woman journalism and
on the first day of June 1872, the first num-
ber of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was issued.
The editor was Miss Louisa L. Greene,
known then as Lula through her poems, a
young woman who had already become a
favorite with the public through her writ-
ings,and to the editor of the Salt Lake Her-
ald the late Edward L. Sloan, who strongly
recommended her as suitable for the
position.  It was a new field,one altogether
untried in the West, except by Mrs.
Duniway who had just previously started
the New North West in Portland, Oregon.
But of this Miss Greene was not aware un-
til afterwards, nor that Dora Darmoore be-
gan about the same time the publication of
"The Golden Dawn" in San Francisco.
These were the only papers edited and pub-
lished entirely by women west of the Mis-
sissippi river at that time, as a matter of
fact. The EXPONENT the very first except
the New North West.  Women type-set-
ters were employed to do the work and the
girls make up the paper as well, so that all
our work is done by women except the
press work.
	The editorial in the first number of the
paper, sets forth in a few words that al-
though the women of Utah are in posses-
sion of the ballot there is ample work to do,
"truth to be dissemminated,errors to be com-
batted, intelligence to be communicated, the
right to be vindicated and misrepresenta-
tions to be corrected."  Indeed it is quite
an able article, and is worthy the subjects
which through all these years the EX-
PONENT has advocated and labored to
maintain.  In 1873, about a year after the
EXPONENT was issued, Miss Greene was
married to L. W. Richards, and assumed
the duties of house-keeping in addition to
editorial work and March 1st, 1873, Miss
Cornelia H. Horne was made business
manager of the EXPONENT.  Later on in
October 1874, Mrs. Richard’s family duties
increased and several ladies who had been
contributors volunteered assistance in the
editorial work.  The present editor being
one of that number. In May 1875 the writer
assumed regular duty in the office which has
been continued ever since.  In November
1876 Miss Horne resigned as business
manager for a higher position in a home of
her own, and in July 1877, Mrs. Richards
vacated the editorial chair in favor of the
present incumbent.  It is quite impos-

[Column 3]
sible to estimate the good accomplished by
this one little paper, and what has been
done clearly demonstrates the value of wo-
man's work in journalism to those
acquainted with the facts.
	Other periodicals besides those mentioned
that have since given opportunities for wo-
men writers, are The Amateur in Ogden,
The Contributor established October 1879,
Tullidge's Magazine, monthly the finest
Magazine in the West which is now dis-
continued, The Utah Magazine first known
as Parry's Magazine, and in October 1889,
The Young Woman's Journal, a monthly
magazine, was started in the interest of  the
young women of the Territory, the editor
is Mrs. Susa Young Gates.
	These papers as also some others of less
importance give ample opportunity for wo-
men to express their views and opinions on
all subjects, and women are employed
regularly on nearly all the papers and mag-
azines published in Utah.
	To those unacquainted with the history
of Utah, it may seem surprising to tell
them that women writers here compare
favorably with their sisters in the East, it
is however perfectly true; some of them
have been born and educated there, and in
England and other lands, and have also the
broad free spirit of the West, that seems
spontaneous in this region, and the children
of these parents,born here in this mountain-
ous country possess in a high degree the
temperament and tendencies that are the
natural result of the climate and scenery
among which they have been born and
nurtured.  Great things in the way of
literature are expected from the native born
children of the inter-mountain country.
Even now we have many young women
whose journalistic work is well worth com-
mending, and of whose career we are justly
proud.
	Of women regularly employed in news-
paper offices there are not very many be-
cause the field for office work is not so
large, but there are some,and as regular con-
tributors there are many.  Among our 
best regular prose writers, of the present
Augusta Joyce Crocheron, who has written
essays, stories and various articles and
biographical sketches is particularly hap-
py in dealing with common place mat-
ters, as well as those that require depth of
thought, and beauty of expression.  She
is the author of several books.  We must
mention, Lu Dalton, who is capable of
handling almost any subject in a masterly
manner;  Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh an
English woman who has been accustomed
to wield the pen for many years, having
traveled extensively in foreign countries
is therefore qualified to write interestingly
on oriental themes, and is able to keep up
too with current topics of the day and deal
with them understandingly.  Ruby La-
mont a Utah girl of Scandinavian paren-
tage is somwhat classical in style, but
writes remarkably well on local themes also.
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson educated in Cam-
bridge, England is a remarkably gifted
writer, and whatever subject she grasps
handles it like a master workman.  She is
more concise than most women, her senten-
ces are clear cut and forcible, yet altogether
smooth, harmonious and skillfully polished.
	Helen Mar Whitney is one of the most
forcible writers, her articles are always ele-
vating in tone and her type is strictly spirit-
ual.  Lula Greene Richards previously
mentioned is also decidedly religiously
in all her journalistic work, her writings


[Columm 1]
are pure in sentiment and she is a great
favorite in her articles for children. Susa
Y. Gates is perhaps the most prolific writer
among the journalists in Utah,
including a great variety of subjects besides
her own magazine work, stories long and
short, political, religious and household
matters.  Among the younger writers born
and educated here who are doing good
work and give promise of greater excellence
in the future, is Annie Wells Cannon
(Camelia) editorial contributor to this paper
and who has written occasionally ever since
she was very young, and has successfully
managed tile editorial work in our absence
a great many times.  Mrs. Cannon’s letters
from Germany and Switzerland in 1883 and
84 were charming in style and realistic in
description.  Another of the younger
journalists who is fast making herself wide-
ly and very favorably known, also Utah
born and educated, is Josephine Spencer,
she writes upon a variety of subjects, many
of them descriptive in which she certainly
excels. She also takes up national themes,
and is very good at stories long and short,
has secured several prizes in this line; has
been a bright and entertaining correspond-
ent for our local papers at the World’s Fair.
	Lillie T. Freeze also Utah born
writes in something of the tender, pathetic
style, religious in tone and reaching out to-
wards the sublime, she seldom deals with
common place subjects.  Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
who came here when a child is a poetical
prose writer, idealistic and sympathetic in
style, and happy in delineation.   A
thorough literary student yet devoted
practically to her profession.  Julia P. M.
Farnsworth born in Utah, has done con-
siderable newspaper work in Beaver,
previous to coming to Salt Lake City where
she now resides.  She deals with political
subjects particularly well, is thoroughly
patriotic in sentiment and emphatic in style,
also motherly in her nature, and writes
happily on all home themes.  Mary A.
Freeze is a very good descriptive writer and
interesting on many other subjects, especial-
ly lofty and religious.  Julia A. McDonald
Utah born and reared has much native
talent, and is a versatile and uncommonly
genial writer, is one of the young women
from whom much is expected in the future.
	Flora L. Shipp is exceptionally gifted as an
imaginative writer, had opportunities been
favorable would ere this have been known
in the West as a novelist, as it is she has
written much, her articles having been pub-
lished mostly in eastern papers and journals.
Sarah E. Russell is one among many of our
young women who have contributed largely
to our home magazines and papers, and is
very pleasing and sweet-toned in sentiment
and style.  Mary Ellen Kimball has con-
siderable merit as a writer upon religious
topics, though she is also decidedly patriotic
in tone.  Willmirth East is one of the
foremost in patriotic themes, and always
manages to put a great deal of the fire of
’76 in her political articles.  Mary A. House
is a philosophical and logical writer, and
deals heavy blows right and left with her
pen when handling subjects that rouse her
indignation.
	Of women who have been regularly em-
ployed on daily papers, as society reporters
there are Eleanor Campbell nee Young,
M.Chaille Benson, Ada Patterson and Dell
Young Harrison.  These young women are
ingenious and attractive in their line of
work, which is one of the most difficult in
the profession.

[Column 2]
	Cornelia A. Paddock is a very able
and accomplished writer and very
well known in the East as efficient in
dealing with charity and social purity sub-
jects, and is the author of several books.
Mary Grant Major now of Utah formerly
of Michigan has been in newspaper and
journalistic work for a number of years,and
polishes accurately her well rounded
sentences.  Jennie D. Froiseth had attained
to some distinction as a writer in the East,
and after coming to Utah edited a woman’s
paper for two or three years the Anti-
Polygamy Standard, she has had great ad-
vantages and a superior education, deals
much with political subjects, is a writer of
fiction and has published several books.
	There are many others too numerous to
mention here, but we must not fail to bring
into this galaxy one or two more. Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, writes not only scientific
articles, but is also an efficient and compre-
hensive writer upon all practical subjects,
and possesses excellence of taste in style,
and correctness of diction.
	Dr. M. Hughes Cannon B. S., one of
Utah’s young women, is a gifted writer,
not only on subjects pertaining to her pro-
fession, but is happy in description of places
and people, and brilliant in dealing with
lofty themes.
	Ellen Lee Jakeman, who has worked at
type-setting, editing, publishing, and writ-
ing on all subjects for country papers, is a
correspondent for papers and magazines in
Salt Lake City, and has written for Eastern
and Western papers as well, of the style we
can only say she is a very strong and able
writer on almost any subject and might
often be mistaken for a man in the character
of her work.
	Mattie H. Tingey, Gladys Woodmansee,
Alice E. Horne, Lizzie H. Shipp, Emma
Ellerbeck, Emily Clowes, Isabel Sears,
Lucy A. Clark, Sophy Valentine, Aretta
Young, Vina H. Tingey, Minnie J. Snow,
Mary A. Farnsworth, Zine S. Whitney,
represent a large number of young women
from whom much is expected in the near
future, (though some of them write poetry)
who deal with general and practical sub-
jects. The outlook in literary work among
women is encouraging and in the rapid
growth and increase of business and pop-
ulation in the West it may be safely predicted
that the West will yet stand equal if it does
not excel the East in progress and advance-
ment, towards the higher education and
development of mankind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	OUR readers will please excuse the non-
continuance of the serial “In Rural
England” as this paper only contains
articles complete in one number and special-
ly designed for free distribution at the
World’s Fair.

	THE ladies of the American Fork W. S.
A., Mrs.Hannah S. Lapish, President, very
generously appropriated money to publish
a thousand extra copies of the EXPONENT,
September first, to be given away on Utah
Day at the World’s Fair in Chicago. They
have our most sincere thanks for this
liberal donation. The same Association
have in the past been very active in raising
money for many noble purposes. May they
continue to increase in good works and also
in numbers. Such energy deserves com- 
mendation.


ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT GEORGE
			Q. CANNON.

	[At The Lawn Fete August 14.]
	THE emancipation of woman has been
almost invariably marked by the advance in
civilization. Politically and professionally
the sex is still deprived of some rights and
privileges possessed by man, but there is no
one now who holds that there is in her either
moral or even intellectual inferiority. So 
far as the law has had to do with the im-
provement in the condition of women, it
like civilization itself, has been gradual in
its operation. But this tendency has been
uniformly in one direction. Women’s
disabilities have one after another been re-
moved until at the present time in most
civilized countries the legal position of wo-
man differs but little from that of man, so
far as regards personal and property rights.
	From a very early time the dependent
position of women is a matter of history.
Sacred and profane records point out to us
that she had but very few of the rights to 
which the other sex was considered en-
titled. In the Mosaic law even, divorce
was a privilege of the husband only; and
daughters inherited only in the absence of
sons. In far eastern countries the sub-
jection of women to their husbands is and
has been always a cardinal principle. In-
heritance of property was traced through
males to the exclusion of the females, and it
is an interesting fact that this, probably as
much as any other influence, led to the
suttee, or burning of the widow upon the
funeral pile of her husband, so that her
life estate in the property might be prompt-
ly extinguished. The dependence of wo-
men under the Roman law was equally
complete; if married, her person and
property passed absolutely into the hands
of her husband; if unmarried, she was un-
der the perpetual tutelage of her father and
her kinsmen. No civil or public office
could she exercise. She could not even
continue a family, for the well known Ro-
man phrase declared that she was the
beginning and the end of her family. It is
true she had certain privileges, but these
were given more from pity for her bodily
weakness and presumed mental incapacity
than for any worthier reason. Paul’s
seeming belief in the inferiority of the sex
was doubtless due to his education in the
Roman law.
	The influence of Christianity in the
securing of rights to which woman, like
every other human being, is entitled, de-
serves full recognition. It made many al-
terations, though not always improvements,
in the laws. Its influence was exercised in
favor of the removal of woman’s disabilities,
and if it did not give her political power, it
at least supported the political power of
those who were her friends.
	Among the barbarous nations of northern
Europe the work of her amelioration was
slower; an early Scandinavian law in
the provision for the “Morning Gift” was
probably the parent to the modern “settled
property," but in some of the old Saxon laws
in England a woman might be burned alive
for a petty theft, especially if she were a
slave, which was no uncommon condition.
Wife-purchase was too common a practice to
need allusion here. She might be led on a
halter to the market-place by her husband
and there exposed and transferred to the
highest purchaser. In a few cases, she
might transmit rights which she herself
could not enjoy. Hence the curious


[Column 1]
anomaly of the French law that a claim
through a woman may be maintained, while
the claim of a woman would be rejected.
The old custom of chivalry, by which a
knight or champion appeared in her defence, 
and she was barred from further manner of
redress, possibly explains the rejection of
her evidence as a witness and her rights to
both person and property.
	My ancestors lived on the Isle of Man, a
small island about as long as our valley of
Salt Lake from the Hot Springs to the
point of the mountain, but not near so wide.
It is a choice and beautiful spot of earth
where freedom has been cherished and very
carefully guarded from the earliest ages.
It has a parliament of its own called the
House of Keys. This legislative body had
an existence long before the British House
of Commons; in fact it is the oldest repre-
sentative body in Europe. Small as that
island is, its inhabitants are proud of
their representative government and of
the antiquity of their House of Keys.
	Democratic equality has prevailed to a
greater extent on that island than any other
part of the British dominions. 
	My reason for alluding to this little spot
is that it is the only part of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
where today parliamentary franchise is ac-
corded to woman, though in all parts of the
British Empire under modem enactments
she may fill high positions in the state.
	Most of the professions and trades have,
during the century, been open to woman in
nearly all European countries; rights of
property have been fixed by generous enact-
ment, and under the operations of the crimi-
nal law she has full protection equal with
her husband, her brother, or her son. The
old Scottish law, if a woman committed a
trespass without her husband’s knowledge,
she might be chastised by him like a child,
has given way to the law establishing the
right of married women to vote at school
elections, and giving them admission to the
universities and to take special courses and
degrees. In our own country the laws are
still more generous; a woman married to a
citizen is deemed a citizen herself; the right
of suffrage in some form or other has been
given her in twenty-eight of the states and
territories. In our own Territory she
voted on all questions until disfranchised
through the Edmunds law. It is of re-
cord that a select committee of the United
States Senate has on two occasions reported
in favor of amending the Constitution so as
to forbid the states making sex the
cause of disfranchisement. In most of our
institutions of learning women are admitted
to equal privileges with the men, and it
need scarcely be said, they have carried off
in all competitions a full share of the honors.
The government itself makes no discrimi-
nation against them in the distribution of
its offices. The proportion of post-mis-
tresses is very large, and of women em-
ployed in the departments at Washington,
it can fall but little short of fifty per cent.
This latter advancement, if such it may be
deemed, dates only from the year 1861,
when in September, Secretary Chase of the
treasury appointed the first lady clerk.
During the ensuing three years there were
twelve women appointed to offices in the
treasury department, and at last reports ten
of these were still occupying their places.
During more than thirty years the number
of women has increased to many thousands,
and in all the duties imposed upon them
they have shown adequate capacity, and in

[Column 2]
skill and faithfulness have shown them-
selves to be in no degree inferior to the
men.
	The Woman’s Congress, or rather
series of congresses, held in Chicago re-
cently, is undoubtedly the most notable
gathering of its kind in all history; every
civilized land and some that are not civilized
were represented at these conventions, and
the judgment of those who witnessed the
proceedings agree substantially in this: that
no gathering of men so cosmopolitan and
so numerous ever displayed greater ability
and gave more complete evidence of brain
power, and energy, and administrative
ability on the part of the members, than
this congress of women.
	Every man, be he husband, father,
brother or son must rejoice in the enlarged
liberty and increased privileges which wo- 
men now possess. There was no act pass-
ed by our Legislative Assembly while I was
a member of that body in which I took
greater interest than the enactment which
gave women the right to hold property in
their own name.  The sex should be re-
lieved from every disability, and every ad-
vantage should be accorded to woman
which will qualify her to stand side by side
with man. Having this feeling, on a recent
visit to the World’s Fair at Chicago I took
great interest in every improvement that
would lighten woman’s labor and relieve
her from drudgery. How often have we
seen a young married couple start out side
by side in life together, the husband and
the wife equal in education and ability, one
as capable of progress as the other; but
after the lapse of a few years what a change
frequently takes place! If their circum-
stances are moderate, and the wife has had
to devote herself to the duties of her house-
hold without leisure to cultivate herself, an
inequality appears. The wife has not pro-
gressed in some directions as the hus-
band has. If a man of intelligence, he has
availed himself of the advantage which his
sex possesses, and to a certain extent, he
is a man of intelligence through the ad-
vantages which has left his wife behind.
Her lagging behind has not been because
of any inferiority on her part, but because
the nature of her employment has kept her
confined to a narrow circle, and with but
limited contact with others, and she has
neither had time nor opportunities to im-
prove as rapidly as her husband.  Every
reflecting father who has daughters and
who desires their happiness and their growth
in everything that is elevating, must take
interest in those improvements and inven-
tions which will lighten woman’s toil and
give her more leisure to cultivate the
abilities which she possesses. Co-operative
societies for cooking and laundry work, if
properly organized and maintained, would
do much for the sex in lightening house-
hold labors and furnishing this healthful
and proper leisure.
	These subjects should receive the at-
tention of the men, but woman herself can
do much towards bringing about changes
which will greatly improve her condition and
secure to her advantages that at the present
time are not generally within her reach.
The energy which the sex has displayed
in many directions, the determination
which has been evinced to remove from
woman’s pathway all obstacles which im-
pede her progress, will doubtless be turned
in the directions which I speak of and with
the happiest results.
	Woman’s day is dawning. The

[Column 3]
twentieth century, say disinterested observ-
ers, will be the woman’s century. In-
deed, some who in a joke may be uttering a
solemn truth, aver that the coming man will
be a woman.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WRITTEN FOR THE U. W. P. C. R.
		C. W. S. A. RECEPTION.

	ALTHOUGH I have been a resident of
this beautiful city for the past eleven
months, I am at present but slightly
acquainted, therefore feel somewhat em-
barrassed in attempting an address; yet, as
we are interested in the same cause; our
aims principles and sentiments similar and
as we believe our cause is just and right; I
 will give the ideas which have presented
themselves in as concise and brief form as
possible.
	Politics has been from girlhood an inter-
esting subject to me, perhaps from the fact
that I was an only sister in a family of seven
brothers. My mother being an invalid, I
was unavoidably brought up in the society
of men more or less. Utah’s Governors,
Judges and Attornies often visited Beaver
and my father’s home in early days was
their place of hospitable welcome. I often
heard discussions, social, civil and political,
for as you are aware the little settlement of
Beaver figured in many legal trials of
notoriety. We had District Court, mines,
a military reservation and other facilities
which aid in the civilization of a country.
History in connection with newspapers, I
became accustomed to read, desiring to gain
knowledge and information, learn what was
going on in the “Great Outside World,” I
heard a number of ladies lecture, took up
the study of Phrenology and "Science of
Health,” became imbued with the firm
belief that in all things men and women
should have an interest and understanding
together. I read Daniel Webster’s Speeches,
the “Union Text Book” of our American
Statesmen including the Constutition and
Declaration of Independence,” and many,
other works like John Stuart Mill on
“Liberty,” and the more I read, the more I
felt the positive necessity of woman being
not only a wife and mother in name, but in
very deed! Intellectually strong, brave,
wise, prudent efficient and capable.
	I am a sincere advocate of woman’s suf-
frage, (also, genuine womanliness.) So
far as the right of franchise goes, every
obligation of citizenship, she is as complete
to meet as man, yet, I do earnestly think
there should be established a qualification
for both men and women voters. God
has created them equal, what one is lack-
ing the other possesses, therefore, both
are requisite to form a perfect organization
in the home community and nation, neither
is complete without the other: their rights,
and relations are one and inseparable!
	Politics are the laws and regulations.
which control the acts and conduct of a
people. A mother should be acquainted
with these the same as a father, she should
understand lawful, citizen, family, property
and personal rights; for ’tis she who holds
the destiny, or rather the molding of the
character of her children in her own hands.
	Webster says: “we admire the artist who
presents the mimic man upon the canvas,
we honor and respect the sculptor who
carves out that same image in enduring
marble, but O, how insignificant these
achievements though the highest and fairest
in all the departments of art, in comparison


with the vocation of human mothers!
They work not upon canvas, that will fade,
or marble, that will crumble into dust, but,
upon mind and spirit that will live forever
and bear for good or evil (throughout
duration the impress of a mother’s plastic
hand.”)
	’Tis near a century since woman’s suf-
frage was first introduced and discussed in 
America by Mrs. Francis Wright of
England, and Ernestine L. Rose of Poland.
Its progress has been slow, its opponents
many, criticism and derision has marked its
every advance, yet, it is gaining more
strength and influence every year, that pow-
erful emissary conservatism, is gradually
losing his hold in the minds of intelligent
people; and to-day our strongest supporters
are many of them great, good, influential
men. We feel safe in saying, that just as
soon as we are fully prepared and
credentialed in an intellectual proficiency
we can and will again enjoy unlimited fran-
chise. Our Heavenly Father does every-
thing in a right and systematic order.
He wishes his daughters as well as sons
qualified to fill positions before we receive
them; he desires us to become competent, able
women not only good but truly intelligent.
	“Well” says one “how can mothers with
families of children study Politics?” ’Tis
an old and often repeated saying, “neces-
sity is the mother of invention," here we
have it personified. Mothers are the
natural instructors of the human race; yet
we cannot teach what we ourselves do not
know, here comes necessity. We have sons
and daughters, they are our jewels, our
hope our inspiration; for them we wish to
live, to learn to be informed, to prove
worthy of the great trust reposed in us,
they are our treasures from God. Intel-
ligence is power in our grasp, unlimited!
	Still we must be patient, act wise, mean-
time gaining safe ground on which to erect
a structure. Train our sons and daughters
in the duties of the ballot, in the responsi-
bility of men and measures placed in public
office, in the magnitude and importance of
civil law, yet, radicalism will never ac-
complish this no never.
	Being a Utah woman by birth and resi-
dence, I find many things for thought and
investigation at the present time, and not
alone does woman’s suffrage form a part.
	I am a mining man's wife, (and have
warm feelings, strong sympathy with the
miners of this region and their families,)
and had for the past four years prior to
moving to Salt Lake City lived in a min-
ing camp, consequently, just now I feel
deeply interested in the Silver-problem, its
proper adjustment and ultimate success. I
am not a society woman know few of the
rules that regulate its circle, therefore beg
pardon if I break any.
	We believe there are many ways woman
can aid humanity in the present crisis, the
fall of silver, which involves, hamlet, vil-
lage, town, city, state and nation, or at
least the south and west of our Great Re-
public. Our fathers, husbands and sons
build or have erected homes, it is they who
provide or should procure the wherewith to
furnish them: mothers, wives, and daugh-
ters make the interior of those homes what
we find them: ’tis they who give credit and
order to every department, beauty, comfort
and happiness of surroundings, their taste
and artistic eye can be traced everywhere,
or vice versa, the lack of these acquirements,
noticable.
	There are various features coming up

[column 2]
nowadays in society, that cause sensible
men and women to seriously reflect. There
are numbers of young men who ought to
be good, reliable, respected citizens who are
not, they prefering to follow sporting,
gaming in all its dangerous, wicked folly,
rather than marry; is the fault all with
men? We do not believe it is, yet, we al-
low that woman is the mentor of superior
civilization the world over, still many of 
them are selfish, frivolous, extravagant and
fickle, they regard themselves as frail, fit
only to be  petted, dressed and made much
of; they crave notoriety and flattery,
jewelry, and expensive display. They dis-
regard the holiness the sacredness of mar-
riage the duties of home life, the obliga-
tions of wife and mother, the care of hus-
band and children becomes irksome
monotomous they trust everything to hired
house keepers and nurses. Is it any won-
der woes and darkness surround some
fire sides; that separation is the ultimate
end, is it any wonder some young men
nowadays dread to risk matrimony? We
read of bankrupts and failures, forgeries
and suicides, there is a cause for this, it is
not all woman’s fault, but from personal
observation and circumstantial evidence in
numbers of instances she has been more or
less associated with it.
	Wives, mothers, sisters let us study
domestic economy, let us train our daugh-
ters in the need, duty, independence and
utility of home culture, we ourselves per-
sonally superintend the management of
every department, the lines on husbands
and father’s faces will gradually disappear, a
stronger feeling of security of confidence in-
crease. Self-reliance is one of the best ele-
ments in a true woman’s character. We
should always understand the limit of
husband’s income also, his liabilities every
week and month, and carefully guard and
spend our own pin-money, then if we do
not have the free coinage of silver the com-
ing year, we will at least have the
consciousness of not having foolishly used
our means when others suffered, perhaps
have a reserve fund to assist those less
fortunate than ourselves, for there is now
and will surely be, a time of hardships this
coming winter; and whether we realize it or
not there is a strong faction in every home,
which greatly assists in lightening and bet-
tering, even from a business stand-point a
man’s credit. Then let us never forget to
sustain a true womanly bearing through
every emergency. God in giving us our
position placed us neither at the head or
foot of man, but by his side as companion
and wife, as a capable responsible helpmate.
Although our spheres in life are different,
they are none the less important. To be
the respected wife of a good, honorable
man, the mother of pure, intelligent child-
ren, we regard as the grandest possession
on earth!
			J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
Salt Lake City, Aug. 14th, 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	CHICAGO has been finally decided upon
by the Board of Lady Managers as the site
for a permanent Woman’s Building.

	MRS. ANNIE BESANT is coming to this
conntry on her way to India, to represent
Theosophy at the Parliament of Religions
in Chicago.


LITERARY WORK OF THE PAST.

			ZINE S. WHITNEY.

	PRIOR to the inception of the Ladies
Literary Club of Salt Lake City, which
has now become widely known, there had
been no Society of this character in Utah
exclusively by ladies. The desire for im-
provement in this direction among the
residents of the Territory, however, had
not been dormant, and as early as the year
1854 an association composed of both ladies
and gentlemen and known as the Polysophic-
al Society was organized. Hon.
Lorenzo Snow was the leading spirit in
this movement, and at the first meeting,
which was held at his home, he was elected
 its President, with Samuel W. Richards
and Claudius V. Spencer as his assistants.
	The meetings of the Society took the
form of a series of evening entertainments,
and much taste and judgment were exer-
cised in the preparation of the programs.
Religious exercises with their pure and
elevating influence were mingled har-
moniously with the intellectual, care was
observed in all the arrangements to relieve
the grave with the  gay, the serious with
the humorous. Extemporaneous speeches
were also judiciously interspersed. The
meetings were largely attended and a lively
interest in the Society was maintained un-
til 1857, the time of the Echo Canyon War,
which event rendered it impracticable to
longer continue the pleasurable sessions.
	THE TWENTIETH WARD INSTITUTE.
	Fifteen years later Messrs John Nichol-
son and Septimus W. Sears, appreciating
the necessity of institutions for the in-
tellectual advancement of the young suc-
ceeded, by speaking in public upon the sub-
ject in awaking an interest therein. The
result was that on January 20th, 1873, the
Twentieth Ward Institute was organized 
with John Nicholson as President, S. W.
Sears first Vice President; John Sharp Jr.
Second Vice President; W. H. Tovey
Secretary; C. R. Savage, Treasurer and
Karl G. Maeser Librarian. A Board of
Directors consisting of eight members com-
pleted the organization. During the first
year the Institute was composed entirely of
gentlemen; but at the beginning of the
second year ladies were declared eligible
and many at once became active and
valuable members. That this association,
having as its object the intellectual, moral,
social and religious improvement of its
members, accomplished much good, it is
perhaps needless to say. It created a wide
interest which led to the formation of simi-
lar societies, and it was without doubt the
parent of the Mutual Improvement As-
sociations which exist throughout the Ter-
ritory today. At the organization of the
latter in the Twentieth Ward, the Institute,
after an animated and successful career of
over two years, fell into line, and is now
known as the  Twentieth Ward Mutual Im-
provement Association.
		THE WASATCH.
	This Society probably became the most
popular among the young people of any
which had existed up to the time of its or-
ganization. Upon the invitation of Messrs.
O. F. Whitney, R. S. Wells and J. X.
Ferguson a number of young ladies and
gentlemen met at the residence of Mrs. E.
B. Wells on the evening of January 29th,
1874, for the purpose of forming a reading
class. The officers were to consist of a


President, Secretary and an Executive
Committee, to be elected each month by
ballot. O. F. Whitney was chosen Presi-
dent and Emma Wells Secretary. Major
W. W. Woods was elected chairman of the
Executive Committee, but resigned in favor
of Miss Mamie Jones, who accepted the
position, Misses Belle Clayton and Cornelia
Horne were her assistants. A critic was
also appointed each evening and meetings
convened weekly. Almost immediately,
however, the reading class was transformed
into a literary, musical and dramatic Society.
The programs consisted of original essays,
declarations, select readings, music—vocal
and instrumental, and occassionally scenes
from Shakespeare and such plays as “The
Lady of Lyons, Marble Heart” etc. were
presented. One feature not to be over
looked was the “Budget Box,” introduced
by Major Woods, now a prominent lawyer
of Idaho. In this box were regularly
placed by anonymous contributors articles
of a humorous and satirical nature, which
were read each evening to the Society by
one of the members previously appointed
for that purpose. This part of the pro-
gram always caused much merriment,
though the personalities indulged in by
the authors of these articles often created
ill-feeling and were deprecated by the
majority of the members. 
	The Wasatch continued in a prosperous
condition, increasing in membership and
popularity for about three years, when
some of its members left the Territory and
others engaged in occupations which pre-
vented them any longer giving time to
such pursuits.
	A great amount of talent was developed
in this Society and tastes were formed
which decided more than one of the mem-
bers in the choice of his profession or vo-
cation. Several have since become
prominent as journalists, lawyers, actors,
musicians, poets and historians. On the
18th of June, 1890, a reunion was held at
the home of Mrs. F. G. Kimball nee Miss
Keetie Keywood. Every member was in-
vited and some of them traveled long dis-
tances to be present on the occasion, which
proved a very enjoyable one. “The
Wasatch days’’ will ever be remembered
with pleasure and pride by all who were
connected with the Society.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE AZALEA.
	On October 25, 1875, another Society
was formed bearing the above title. The
name was chosen because of the beauty
and rarity of the Azalea flower. The
young people who composed this association
were actuated by a desire to belong to a
literary organization and being ineligible,
on account of their youth, as members of
the Wasatch—they conceived the idea of
converting a card club, previously organized
into such a society. Accordingly, on the
date given at the home of Mr. John D.
Spencer the reorganization took place, the
following officers being elected. President
George F. Felt; Vice President, John D.
Spencer; Secretary Charles B. Felt and
Treasurer, James Miller. This Society
was a particularly happy one, the members
all being congenial and their aim, which
was to combine intellectual improvement
with innocent pleasures, was certainly
praise worthy. The agreement made by
each male member prior to his initiation
was that he would obstain from all intoxi-
cants, tobacco in every form, profane
language and conduct unbecoming a gentle-


man. The Azalea proved to be the longest
lived of all the early associations, the final
meeting occuring on September 25, 1884,
just nine years after its inception. Among
the members of this Society are now to be
found poets, actors, play writers, lawyers
and ministers.
		THE SHAKESPEARE SOCIETY
	The Shakespeare Society was organized
by a number of students of literature at
the University of Deseret. Their plan was
to continue the study of Shakespere follow-
ing the course given at the University
which comprised a thorough study of the
great author’s plays.
	One of the most prominent members and
perhaps the originator of the Society was
Miss Alice Merrill, now Mrs. Horne, at
whose home the first meeting was held in
1885. Sessions thereafter convened weekly
at the homes of the lady members. In the
course followed by this Society, a critical
examination of the play under consideration
was required. The poetry, construction,
diction and etymology were examined and
discussed; the history of the play studied,
essays and criticisms written on all the im-
portant characters, and selections memorized
by each student. While it was studied as
a classic, thorough enjoyment of the plot
and a comprehension of its meaning were
obtained. Occassionally, to vary the tenor
of the meetings, members would commit to
memory some of the scenes and produce
them ;these occasions are memorable for the
recreation and pleasure that they afforded.
Some of the plays studied by the Society
were Hamlet, Macbeth, Julius Ceasar,
King Lear, Merchant of Venice and
Othello. Earnest and progressive work
was done for a period of over four years,
when the Society though it did not disband
ceased to study Shakspeare. This was ow-
ing to absence from the Territory of many
of its members; since then it has held no
meetings other than those of a purely social
character. Seven of the members have
graduated from college and received de-
grees, while nearly all of them are gradu-
ates of the University of Deseret.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Y. L. N. M. I. A. of this County
gave an entertainment in the magnificent
pavilion at Saltair, August 11th, ult., at
which some of the best local talent of the
City appeared in music and recitations.
Nellie C. Taylor presided in the absence of
the President, Mary A. Freeze. After a
selection on the piano by Kate Romney,
President Wilford Woodruff made an ad-
dress which was highly appreciated. His
voice was clear as that of most young men
and he was listened to with the most marked
attention while he graphically related some
of the experiences of the pioneers to this
once barren desert. The solos by Bessie
Deane Allison and Louie Poulton, also the
duet by Maggie Bassett and Thos. Ashworth
were very fine. Dr. M. Hughes Cannon’s
rendition of “The Sioux Chiefs Daughter’’
was excellent also B. L. Young’s humorous
reading. Gov. Caleb West’s address was
effective, particularly in his ovation to the
pioneers. The guitar and mandolin clubs 
discoursed sweet music, and Prof. W. C. 
Clive with his violin solo—Maggie Taylor, 
accompanist—were fully appreciated, music
is always sweeter and more touching upon
the water, and the Saltair pavilion is built
out in the Dead Sea of the West. A din-
ner was given by the Committee of this


Association after the exercises were over
and conversation and musicmade a happy
finale to the brilliant entertainment.
	THE Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms in this city, on Thursday,
October 5th. The business meeting will
commence at 10 o’clock in the morning,
and it is earnestly requested by the Presi-
dent, Sarah M. Kimball,and the other Ter-
ritorial officers that Delegates from all the
countries should be present and take part in
the election of officers for the ensuing year
and vote, for a Delegate to the Annual
Convention in Washington. At two p. m.
the Convention proper will be held when
it is expected there will be brief addresses
by the ablest exponents of Woman Suffrage
in the Territory, and the results of the
Executive meeting in the morning voted
upon. Presidents in the several counties
should give special attention to this' notice
and to the circular letters sent out by the
Cor. Sec’y. It is intended to make this
Convention attractive and telling in the
cause. The public are invited to the after-
noon session, which is sure to be interest-
ing.
	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city on Friday
September 22nd, meetings commencing at
10 A. M. and at 2 p. m. as usual. Repre-
sentatives from all the branches in the
county are earnestly requested to attend as
well as all members who can be present
The public are also cordially invited and a
special invitation is hereby extended to the-
presiding authorities of the Church and of
the Stake and to all Bishops and brethren
interested in this benevolent institution.


R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30, and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R.K.THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. 		WEST TEMPLE STREET,
				  Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1893. NO.5


CONTENTS:

	Fishing on the Reef Samoa—Alofa. Mother
Crowded Out—Margaret E. Sangster. Needle
Work Guild of America—Mrs. Edward B. Critch-
low.  On Raising Mulbery Brush—S. A. S.
Official Notice. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—
Lydia D. Alder.  U. W. P. Club—E. R. Shipp.
Ladies’, Attention—Mrs. M. C. Howes.  Notes
and News. An Abridged Sketch of History—M.
E. Kimball. Wayne Stake. The War of 1812.
In Memoriam. Obituaries.

	EDITORIAL.—The Saving of Grain.  Salt Lake
Tabernacle Choir.  Editorial Notes.

	POETRY.—She and I—Etta L. Gilchrist.  The
Deserted Claim—Selected. Why Should We
Doubt—Eliza E. Gibbs.


SHE AND I.

WE played together she and I
	Two children by the meadow brook,
She fair and bright as summer’s sky
	I, stout and firm and proud of look.

We two were neighbors she and I
	But differing in our birth-right dower
She daughter of a laborer nigh
	I born to pride of wealth and power.

We loved each other, she and I
	The old, old story ever new,
She loved as woman trustingly,
	I, selfishly as mankind do.

We proved our love, both she and I
	As ever fondest lovers must
She gave herself, my truth to try
	I, broke her heart, betrayed her trust.

In worldly circles she and I
	Were judged by human judgment vain,
I, honored still and lifted high
	She bearing the reproach and stain

We’ll stand in judgement, she and I
	God will decide where rests the blame,
Her fault’s he’ll pass in mercy by;
	On me will place the guilt and shame.
					ETTA L. GILCHRIST.


THE DESERTED CLAIM.

UP where the snow shines pure and white,
	In the peaks that point to the summer sky,
Up in the gulch by the evening light
	I saw, as we traveled slowly by,
A claim deserted and left alone,
	A shaft sunk in the mountain side,
A roofless cabin, of logs rough hewn,
	Where some one had labored ’till hope had
died.
And late on, when our camp was made,
	And the white tents pitched for another night,
While the pine trees weirdly tossed and swayed
	In the cheerful glow of our camp fire light,
When merry voices rang on the air.
	And smiling faces flashed in and out—
I thought of that cabin rude and bare,
	Of its owner, who labored in hope and doubt.
He had come perhaps from some Eastern home,
	For speedy wealth to this Western clime,
And homesick and weary and all alone,
	He had faithfully toiled for some friendly sign.
Cold moans the wind through the canyon deep,
	And the coyote cries the night hour drear
There are unknown footsteps that softly creep,
	And the voice of the burro in kingly cheer.


Still he dreamed as others had done before—
	As others shall do in the days to come—
Of finding wealth in unbounded store,
	And joyfully bearing his treasure home;
But fortune is chary when all is told—
	Her smiles are the hardest on earth to gain,
And where one is favored with shining gold
	A thousand others may toil in vain.
Thus I sit and muse in the camp-fire glow,
	While the welcome evening meal is spread,
And the sound of the river comes soft and low;
	And the stars shine brilliantly overhead
For my heart is saddened as day by day,
	We pass in sunshine or dripping rain,
That frequent road-mark upon our way,
	The deserted, desolate, mining claim.
	SELECTED.


[Column 1]
FISHING ON THE REEF SAMOA.

	THE twenty fourth of July was a fit
time for an “out” in the scorching sun,as it
was under its burning rays that our honored
pioneers entered the beautiful valley of
Salt Lake just forty-six years ago.
	We had made no preparations for a
celebration at the Mission House, so when
Selani came and asked to borrow the boat
for a fishing trip to the reef, and stated
that the party was to consist of women
only, I hastily made up my mind, just for
the novelty of the affair, to accompany
them.
	The tide being low, I was asked to walk
along the beach to a point where they hoped
to be able to get the boat near the shore
but alas! when we reached the point we
found the water too shallow even there to
get within fifty yards of the shore so my
first experience was to wade to the boat,
shoes and stockings on.
	The party consisted of two half castes,
two Samoans, and myself and the different
grades of color we represented was a mat-
ter commented upon by the dusky oars-
women as we were rowed out toward the
reef by their strong and willing hands. 
Several times the boat struck large rocks
which Meile's watchful eyes had failed to
discover, and our progress was for the
moment impeded;  but for the moment only,
for Selani would spring from her seat in an
instant and turn the nose of the little craft
around clear of the rocks and with dripping
apparel climb back to her place again.
	When we had gone as far sea-ward as
shallow water would admit, the boat was
anchored and we walked out over the sharp
stones to the edge of the reef. There the
great waves came dashing and breaking
against the ledge of coral which for ages
has successfully resisted their force. Oh,
how they did pitch and toss and roar, as if
determined to overstep their bounds and
come pouring over the rocks and on to the 
sandy beach! but just as each had gathered
all its force and towered up to its greatest
height it would strike the firm barrier of
rock and be dashed into snowy spray to fall
and mingle with the calmer receding
waves. How great and how wonderful in-
deed are the works of God, and in no part
of the earth are their grandeur displayed

[Column 2]
in greater magnitude than in the mighty
deep!
	While the dusky women of the tropic
were busily engaged in the fishing I divested
myself of wet stockings and shoes and sat
on a pile of dry rocks to rest and enjoy the
beauty of the scenery and the music of the
waves. The fishers went yet nearer the
edge of the reef than I dared to venture
and reached down in holes in the rocks for
a kind of shellfish while the water rolled
over them with considerable force. The 
net had been forgotten in the boat, conse-
quently the “catch” was small, but as
there is scarcely a living creature in the
sea that Samoans will not eat they picked
up a supply of stuff which is edible to
them, though even the appearance of it
was quite nauseous to me. Several large
cuttle-fish were among the lot. There
was only one woman in the crowd brave
enough to pick one up, therfore when the
first one was discovered by Luci she called
to friend Selani who came quickly to her
assistance. As she firmly grasped the
slimy, clinging creature in her hand, it
wound its eight long arms about her wrist
and wriggled and crawled in its endeavors
to free itself, while she bit out its teeth and
really smacked her lips over the dainty bit
of flesh which she chewed from around the
mouth of the animal while it was yet alive.
A dark slime from its body was smeared
over her face which made her appear less
attractive than I had ever seen her before.
As each succeeding one was caught I
noticed that all my companions were
anxious to chew off the teeth, though quite
unwilling to take the octopus in their 
hands.
	The sun had about reached the meridian 
when we started on the homeward course,
and we were all hungry. The lunch basket
contained only dry taro that is it was dry
when we started out; but the woman who
carried it had set it down in the water a
dozen times or more while she used her
hands to catch fish, so it was by this time
thoroughly soaked. I knew my friends
intended to find something in the sea to eat
with their “bread,” but I must say I was a
little surprised when I saw what the things
were. Raw fish, the insides of several
kinds of mollusks,  clam fish, sea-weeds,
and even the little sea-urchin which is so
thickly covered with quills that it resembles
a mere bunch of thorns; these and other
delicacies were eaten with great relish and
gave them all so great an appetite that the
tavo was all gone before all were fairly
satisfied. After offering me quite a variety
of danties, which I told them I was un-
accustomed to eating, they selected a nice
clean, looking bit from a clam, and after
washing it well, pursuaded me to just taste
it. I did so and then assured them that I 
did not care for any more. I do not think
I ever tasted medicine that was as hard to
swallow as that one small bit of a raw
clam.
	The natives explained to one another
that I had never lived near the sea before—
did not understand the things of the sea
except fish and that I did not relish those


uncooked; and I, thankful that they under-
stood the situation, ate a piece of the
saturated taro and thought it quite fishy
enough.
	We found several beautiful shells and
some pretty pieces of coral which were at
once handed over to me and gladly accepted.
	They insisted on giving me the cuttle-
fish also, but the gift was persistently re-
fused and no doubt they had a real treat in
the shape of cuttle-fish soup. We returned
home as we had gone out, by pulling and
rowing the boat by turns. Dinner had
been prepared by Sister Hilton and was
eaten with great relish.
	Besides being very tired, I soon found
that the sun had been too warm for my face
and neck, and I had burned them almost
to a blister. A simple remedy was applied
and soon gave relief, and the fishing trip on
the coral reef of Samoa was one which
will long be remembered.	ALOFA.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


MOTHER CROWDED OUT.

	“AFTER a mother is fifty years old there
is no longer any room for her in the world,
and she ought to die.” The words were
bitter, but they were not bitterly spoken.
Rather, the intonations of the patient voice
were plaintive, and the care-lined face of the
elderly woman who uttered the sentiment
wore no look of protest. Instead, there 
was in it an expression of resignation, of
acquiescence in something that must be ac-
cepted and endured.
	Thinking of many aged mothers, loved
to idolatry by the men and women who are
their “bairns” still, albeit some of them 
have silver hair and bent shoulders; think-
ing of the middle-aged, who bear as un-
questioned a scepter as when their babies
were in the nursery, though these are now
“young people,” with the hopes and
aspirations of the young; I wondered
whether my friend were not a solitary suf-
ferer. Observation has convinced me to
the contrary, and it is my conviction that
somebody should uplift a note of warning
in the ears of thoughtless, not heartless,
daughters.
	“The wind is in the east this morning,”
said a girl at the breakfast table, with a
significant glance around at her brothers
and sisters, and a little pucker of the mouth
in the direction of the matron, whose hand
trembled a little as she poured out the
coffee.
	“Your mother is very tired and evidently
not well,” ventured an acquaintance, later,
when a “mother’s irritability” was freely
discussed in her hearing by these young
people. “That may be,” said one of them
lightly, “but she needn’t be so cross. We
are all willing to do our share in helping
her, but she does not know that the world
has moved since her day.”
	Neither did the young daughter realize
that, however far the world may have
moved since her mother’s “day,” it never
has moved, and never will, from the shadow
of the fifth commandment. I have a stand-
ing quarrel, too, with the statement that a
person’s “day” is pre-eminently her day of
youth. There is a “day” for forty, for
sixty, for eighty, and each "day" is as im-
portant and as honorable, if well spent, as
the other—the latter as gloryful as the
earlier. There is one beauty of the rose-
buds and another beauty of the ripened
wheat, and another, again, of the snow-
flakes.


But, of course, I know what girls mean
when they talk of the old people who have
had their day. And I am always greatly
perplexed and troubled when I see that the
effect of education, in a wider sense than
the mother knew, has been to make the
younger look down upon, or patronize, the
elder woman. The plain mother has made
sacrifices, some of them very heavy, to
obtain for her children the opportunities
and advantages of the best schools. She
has toiled early and late, spent lonely
hours, felt in her soul at times humiliating
depression because she could not keep
pace with her children, and it is, pardon
me for saying it, simply low and mean for
her daughters ever to snub her, or to be
impatient with her, or to maneuver to keep
her in the background.—Ex.
MARGARET E. SANGSTER.


NEEDLE WORK GUILD OF
			AMERICA.
	THE Needlework Guild was organized
ten years ago, in England, by Lady Wol-
verton, “with a machinery of such beauti-
ful simplicity that it could be a burden to
no one, and the condition of membership,
only two new useful articles of clothing a
year, was so small a demand that the
society became popular immediately.
The elements of popularity and steady
growth were in its very structure—no caste,
no sect, no hampering prejudices.” Since
then the work has spanned the Atlantic
and stretches almost from ocean to ocean,
across this fair land of ours.
		SALT LAKE BRANCH.
	Through the efforts of Mrs. W. A. Nel-
den, we ladies of Salt Lake City have be-
come interested in it, and the few gathered
in Mrs. Nelden’s parlor one warm after-
noon in May, 1893, have increased to an
army of 550 workers, called the Salt Lake
City Branch of the Needlework Guild of
America. A branch consists of ten sections,
with an honorary president, president,
secretary and treasurer. Each section
must have at least five (5) directors, one of
whom shall be president and one secretary
of the section. Each of these five pledges
herself to obtain ten others, who shall
promise to contribute two new garments a
year, making twenty-two (22) garments,
or one hundred and ten (110) for each sec-
tion. Each ten send in their garments in
October to their director; by the directers
they are sent to the presidents of the
sections, and by the presidents sent to a
specified place and there distributed accord-
ing to the vote of the officers and directors
to the needy and destitute in hospitals,
orphanages, homes and among the poor,
making in all a distribution of eleven
hundred (1100) good, strong, new articles
of clothing. The work is so simple, yet so
far reaching in its beneficence; so easy, yet
so great in its accomplishments, that we
should each feel glad to be one of its work-
ers, and make of our branch a telling
power for good in this city and throughout
the Territory.
	Notices have been sent to all the known
charitable institutions in the city, which
have been generally responded to. From
the two Orphanages, the Day Nursery on
State street and St. Ann’s, comes the call
for hundreds of garments, anything
wearable from shoes to caps, for seventy-
[Column 2]
five children ranging from six months to
fifteen years of both sexes; for comforters,
bed and table linen also.
	The Young Ladies’ Aid Society’s need
boys’ suits and flannel underwear, girls’
dresses and flannel underwear, men’s un-
derwear, women’s underwear, and outfits
for infants, also shoes and stockings of all
sizes.
	The Rescue mission, men—clothing of
all description for men from sixteen to
sixty years of age; also small bed ticks,
sheets and pillow-slips.
	The Rescue mission, women—dresses,
underwear, shoes and stockings for women,
comforters, bed and table linen.
	Newsboys’ home—bed and table linen
and all kinds of boys’ clothing.
	In addition to these the destitute and
needy of all classes, to whom a new gar-
ment may bring a blessing, and help more
to uplift morality than many gifts of old
clothes from the attic.
	MRS. EDWARD B. CRITCHLOW, Sec.


ON RAISING MULBERRY BRUSH.
	In passing through the country I have
observed that very few new mulberry
orchards are planted now a-days and I would
suggest that more attention is paid to this
industry, or in other words, plant out mul-
berry orchards now, that in time to come
and a short time at that, there may be
plenty of feed for a numerous quantity of
silk worms, that are bound to be raised in
this country before long, and I would also
suggest that the mulberry plants, be raised
in rows of brush as well as trees, because
the brush can be cut much handier for feed,
and another reason is, it could be cut off
every other row alternately every other
year.
	They (the rows) want to be planted far
enough apart for a team to go through so
that the brush could be thrown into the
wagon handily—because the last three
weeks the silk worms are fed, they need
so much food.
	The brush can be raised by taking the
slips from the mulberry trees in the Spring
of the year, and planting them thickly in
trenches leaving a ditch so that they can
be watered easily.
S. A. S.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	THE annual convention of the Utah
branch N. A. W. S. A. will be held in the
Fourteenth ward assembly rooms in this
city on Thursday, October 5th, 1893. The
executive session will convene at 10 o’clock
a. m. It is desirable that delegates from
the several counties should be present and
take part in the proceedings. The conven-
tion proper will commence at 2. p. m. at
the same place. It is expected there will
be brief addresses by some of the ablest
exponents of woman suffrage in the Ter-
ritory. Presidents of the several organiza-
tions are asked to respond to this call and
to the circular letters sent out recently by
the secretary. The public are cordially
invited to the afternoon session.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL, President.
	NELLIE LITTLE, Secretary.
	E. B. WELLS, Ch. Pub. Com.


NEXT November, the men of Colorado
will vote yes or no on the question of wo-
man suffrage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT 	
﻿


WHY SHOULD WE DOUBT. 
[Lines dedicated to Mrs. Lu Dalton suggested
by reading her poem, “The One Doubt."]
DEAR sister, although a stranger to you un-
	known,
Thy plantive, sad refrain so very like my own
Has stirred within my heart a sympathetic chord
	of grief and woe,
Awaking sad memories of the past keen-edged
	tho’ long ago,
At first I could not say as thou hast said, “God’s
	will in all be done,”
My heart rebelled, but since have learned sub-
	mission must be won.
Tho’ years of grief too deep, for language to
	portray
Have come and gone, the wound so deep can 
	never be effaced or pass away,
The one I mourn was pure and true, her soul
	with trials purified was more of Heaven than
		earth.
A precious boon from Heaven lent, the solace of
	my weary life but oh, the conquerer death.
Yet cease regrets, my saddened heart, thine all
	to God resign nor doubt his high behest,
His infinite wisdom faileth not our lambs have
	gone to rest,
And when through wise designs he calls our
	loved ones home from this terestrial ball,
’Tis for some purpose wise and just, none go
	without His call.
If he or she had lived! how oft our yearning
	hearts indulge the vain regret
If they had lived, what might have been? our
	wayward lips in saddened tones those words
		repeat.
Ah me! yes: what might have been we poor blind
	mortals little know,
Pitfalls and snares beset the unwary youth
	wher’ere they go.
Would they have stood immaculate when tossed
	on stormy seas of life?
Have weathered every bitter blast ’mid numerous
	whirlpools of sin and strife?
How many a mother’s heart in all  the bitterness,
	of mortal woe hath said,
If in his youthful innocence, unscathed with
	crime my darling one had died,
While in my anguish I had seen  the dust strewn
	o’er his guileless breast,
And thus could feel (how sweet the thought) my
	darling was at rest.
The veil so closely drawn ’twixt Heaven and
	earth is just and wise
Obscuring undefiled the visions of Eternity from
	our unhallowed eyes.
Oh why should finite mortals doubt the infinite
	wisdom of our God?
Whose Son hath all our sorrows borne, life’s
	stormy path has trod,
Has gained the victory over death and drained
	the bitter dregs.
							Eliza E. Gibbs.
Deseret, Utah.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	
	MINUTES of the Sisters' Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Aug. 26th, 1893. Prest.
M. I. Horne presiding: singing “Come ye
Saints’’ etc. Prayer by Counselor Elizabeth
Webb, continued by singing “We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet” etc. Minutes
of the previous meeting read and approved.
Sister M. I. Horne said “I think if there
was a will there would be a way, for many
more of the sisters to attend these meetings,
unless there is sickness in the family. By
meeting together we are built up, our desire
to serve God renewed, and we e[-]joy more


of the good spirit. I feel sorry that the
sisters do not realize the momentous day in
which we live. We should rejoice as
mothers and daughters of Zion, see that
we love one another, and never forget our
prayers. We should be thankful that we
live in this the best of all dispensations.
We should not be lukewarm in serving
God, but devote our energies to the things
of the Kingdom. Prest. Woodruff has
said ‘watch the times, for wonderful things
are right at our door.’ The Lord is pour-
ing out his displeasure, upon the nations,
of which we have to take a share, but if we
trust in God all things will work together
for our good. ‘Hard Times’ is the cry, but
this would be as nothing if famine should
follow. The prospect of this is bad all
over the world, and it is threatened in our
own land. God can avert it if He so desires
but we have been warned to store up our
grain, sisters are we doing this? Now
that wheat is cheap, we should heed this
counsel we should be on the safe side. If
the sisters would only work in each Society,
in a systematic manner, very much more
wheat could be stored up this season. We
know that we are right, and in this line of
our duty, to store up the grain.”
	Sister Horne spoke of the great good the
choir going to the Fair, would do for Zion,
and gave many other instructions.
	Sister W. East of Arizona also spoke at
some length, giving good counsel and ex-
horted the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT.
Sisters Morris, Thomas, Sebrick, and Wil-
liams each followed with many good words
of testimony. Sister L. D. Alder, Sister
May and others, each added her testimony
to those already borne. Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson closed by saying many good
things and adding her testimony to all the
others that the gospel was true, and ex-
horted all to be true and faithful to the
same. Meeting was adjourned for two
weeks. Singing ‘‘Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing” etc. Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Acting Sec.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THIS interesting organization held its
regular meeting at the EXPONENT parlors
Wednesday evening, August 31st. Prest.
E. B. Wells in the chair; prayer by Lillie
T. Freeze. After due attention being
given to general business the President
stated the nature of our program for the
evening which was to be devoted entirely
to poetical readings and discussions, giving
a pleasant diversion from the regular
routine. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze led with a
very appropriate selection from our honored
poet Eliza R. Snow. Ruth M. Fox read
an original poem entitled “The Moon’s
Answer’’ which had a tendency to awaken
many new thoughts.
	Miss Patterson recited in a very effective
tone and manner the beautiful poem
“Sometime.” A. J. Crocheron read
the “Lost Bower” from Mrs. Brown-
ing. C. C. R. Wells read E. B. Wells’
beautiful poem “A Fragment.” Dr. E. R.
Shipp read an original poem in two parts,
“Our Inspiration and Our Poets.” Mrs.
Lizzie Wilcox recited, very impressively,
“O, My Father.” E. W. Hyde read
“God Knows Best” from Ella Wheeler
Wilcox and L. T. Freeze read a beautiful
selection from the same author. Mrs.
Lydia Alder read “The Golden Curl” from


Mrs. Browning. The President then
charmed the club with her feeling rendition
of Jean Ingelow’s beautiful poem “Seven
times Seven.” Mrs. Lawler read the
“Deserted Mining-camp” which awakened
an animated discussion of the silver question
and Kate Field's unjust criticism of the
Women of Utah.
	The evening's program was interspersed
with sweet singing by Miss Pearl Russell
and piano music by Miss Olea Shipp,
thus blending the divine arts music and
poetry in a manner to lift one’s soul above
the stern realities of life to the idealistic of
the beyond.
	After refreshments and arranging of
program which was to be another evening
with the poets, selections from the opposite
sex exclusively, meeting was adjourned
for one month, benediction pronounced by
Lydia D. Alder.
E. R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec. pro tem.


LADIES’ ATTENTION. 
	THE unparallelled success that has at-
tended the use of the "Viavi” Home
treatment by all ladies who have tried it, is
sufficient proof to every unprejudiced mind
that it is one of the greatest discoveries of
the age; and an unqualified boon to suffer-
ing women. Ladies, if you would enjoy
perfect health yourselves and transmit a
healthy and robust vitality to your children,
investigate this remedy, and give it a trial.
You will not be disappointed in results.
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, a physician of
seventeen years practice in Salt Lake City,
endorses the treatment; and will in the
near future, lecture on its merits through-
out the territory. Correspond or make in-
quiry freely. Ladies only in attendance.
Utah Headquarters at 176 State St. Room 19.
	MRS M. C. HOWES Gen'l. Manager.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER celebrated
her eighty-second birthday, on Saturday,
Aug. 26, at the residence of her son, Col.
Henry B. Beecher, of Yonkers, N. Y.
Only the members of the family were
present.
	MISS FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE recently
celebrated her seventy-third birthday. Al-
though for many years confined to her
house by constant ill health, she is cease-
lessly at work for the welfare of her fellow
creatures.
	“VIRGINIA FRANKLYN,” a new writer,
whose verses and essays in Harpers Bazar
and elsewhere have been noticed for their
fresh and enjoyable qualities, is Mrs.
Virginia Terhune Vandewater, a daughter
of “Marion Harland.” Her sister is
Christine Terhune Herrick, whose excel-
lent writings on domestic topics are well-
known.
	REV. AUGUSTA J. CHAPIN, chairman of
the Woman’s General Committee on Re-
ligious Congresses in the World’s Congress
Auxiliary, has just received the degree of
Doctor of Divinity from Lombard Univer-
sity, Galesburg, Ill. This is the first in-
stance in which a woman has been author-
zed to write D. D. after her name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, - SEPTEMBER 15, 1893.


THE SAVING OF GRAIN.
	THE grain question at the present time
should be seriously considered, and the
counsel given by President Brigham Young
in 1876 practically carried out by the women
of this Territory, and especially should the
cash now on hand to buy wheat be used
for that purpose while grain is so cheap.
	In the reports sent to the last Quarterly
Conference from the branches of the Relief
Society in this Stake we noticed particularly
the item wheat cash or cash to buy wheat
and it made quite a considerable sum. Let
this be put into wheat and if next year
there is an abundant harvest no harm is
done, and the wheat stored can be changed
for new wheat if considered wise and an
allowance made for shrinkage. But if the
crickets and grasshoppers should destroy
the crop next year as now seems probable
in many parts of the country, it would be
a source of satisfaction to have wheat in
the bins instead of cash in the coffers.
	What will apply to the sisters in this
county will apply with equal force and
weight in other counties, and those who
preside should see to it that the money
given expressly for grain should be used
while there is wheat to purchase, and not
let the opportunity be lost. Women who
have known  the pangs of hunger, and
whose children have cried for bread when
there was none to give them, must realize
what an important matter this is, and
should urge upon those who are careless
and indifferent to make hay “while the sun
shines” and not be too sure that there will
always be a bountiful harvest in time to
come. The older sisters will remember
the editorial approved and added to by
President Young in October 1876, but for
the benefit of those who never read it, and
as a forcible reminder to all, we republish
his counsel given to the sisters at that time,
in the hope that it will awaken those who
have means to buy up and save the wheat
that is being sold out of the Territory, that
there may be an ample supply of bread on
hand for all, should the harvest be less
abundant another year. Sisters be warned
in time and remember there is no famine
like the want of bread. We who lived
here in the early days know when gold or
silver would not purchase flour, and when
a loaf of bread was far more desirable than
a handful of gold dust. There are many
tales of suffering for bread that might be
told effectively, to some of the young people
born here and raised in comparative luxury,
who know little of the sacrifices made and


privations endured by those who settled
these mountain vales. Indeed it might be
well occasionally to speak of those other
times, those days of adversity and trial
through which the people passed in re-
claiming this desert land and making homes
in which to dwell. The Lord has wonder-
fully blest the labors of their hands, and
the children as well as the parents, the
pioneers of the country have reason to be
grateful to our Father in heaven, whose
bounties they continually and so freely
partake.


REPRINTED FROM EXPONENT OCT. 15, 1876.

	AT the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the
women of this Territory to the subject of
saving grain. It is one important item
which President Young has labored diligent-
ly to impress upon this people ever since
their residence in these valleys. His ad-
vice has ever been to the brethren to culti-
vate the soil and let the mines, and mining
speculations alone, for the grain was of
more consequence than gold or silver. And
these people are witnesses to that fact;
practically having experienced the scarcity
of provisions and especially of breadstuffs,
in the earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people
abundantly in the few years past in their
fields and in their stores of grain and pro-
visions; and as in almost every other case
when there is a profusion of blessings, the
people who receive them become indifferent
and do not appreciate them as they ought.
The people have been careless in regard to
taking care of their grain and many other
things. In many instances they neglect
to pay their tithing, and dispose of their
products in such a manner as, were it to
continue, the Lord would be sorely dis-
plea ed with them. This year grain is un-
usually low, yet the grasshoppers have
been visiting different parts of the Territory,
and, it is feared by many, have laid their
eggs; therefore it is more than ever essen-
tial that such measures be taken as will
secure the grain now in market. The
Relief Societies and Co-operative organiza-
tions in which some of the women of this
Territory are interested, have funds at their
disposal from time to time, which can be
made available to carry out President
Young’s wishes in regard to buying and
taking care of the grain.
	It is no doubt the best investment of
means that could possibly be made, for if
the prophecies of the Scriptures, both
ancient and modern, and of Joseph Smith
are to be fulfilled, which the Latter-day
Saints profess to believe, there will be a deso-
lating famine in the land; and if the wo-
men of this Territory will be wise, and
hearken to the counsel given to them now,
there is no doubt that the result will be an
eminent success. If the means now on
hand in the societies and women’s associa-
tions can be turned into grain, and such
measures taken to store it and preserve it
from damp and all other things that would
damage, or destroy it, as can be made
practicable according to circumstances and
advantages, then one point will be gained
towards the temporal salvation of this
people in case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are
generally earnest, and our advice would be
immediately without any delay (except such
as is unavoidable) to commence to carry
[Column 2]
out President Young’s counsel in this mat-
ter. Where there is a will there is (almost
invariably) a way, and in this matter there
should be a personal and individual as well
as a general interest. In order to satis-
factorily accomplish any scheme one great
object is to be in earnest; on this earnest-
ness depends much of the success of what-
ever enterprise is undertaken. If you de
termine to do anything of whatever name
or nature, first be sure it is the proper thing
to do, and then without losing time, bring
your energies into immediate requisition
and you are almost sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable
of carrying out President Young’s counsel
in this matter; and if they do not they will
be left without excuse; he has called upon
the brethren until he has become wearied,
and now he appeals to the sisters Is not
this a proof of his confidence in their de-
sire to listen to counsel? The sisters will
have ample opportunity now to prove their
ability in financiering; and it is greatly to
be hoped that they will manifest such
earnestness in this matter as cannot fail to
accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the
sisters, that they enter into such arrange-
ments, as are applicable to their circum-
stances in their various districts and settle-
ments, to build store-houses for the storing
of their grain in the sections of country
as they shall divide off, or apportion to cer-
tain localities; also that they solicit dona-
tions from their husbands and the brethren,
to assist them in carrying out this enterprise;
both for the building of the store-houses
and also in obtaining grain to fill them and
preserve it for future need.
	We sincerely hope that what has been
said will be sufficient to arouse a spirit of
determination in the minds of the women
of Utah, to devise and to put in practice,
such measures as shall be economical and
wise, and for the general good of all con-
cerned.


SALT LAKE TABERNACLE CHOIR.
	THE Salt Lake choir under the manage-
ment of its able director Professor Evan
Stephens has for some years past been quite
widely admired (for the sweet music
rendered) not only by Utah people, but
strangers and tourists who have visited the
City. It was thought by many musical
people when the Columbian Exposition was
first inaugurated that the Salt Lake choir
should go, and when competitive prizes
were offered, many people interested in
Utah’s progress were anxious the choir
should be given this grand opportunity, to
show the advancement of vocal music in
this comparatively new Western country.
	The recent financial embarrassments
were somewhat discouraging, and it looked
at one time rather improbable that so large
a company could find means to meet the
expense of going. But finally through
perseverance and the good management of
the Committee the visit of two hundred and
fifty of this large choir was successfully ar-
ranged and the singers with many friends
left Salt Lake on the 29th, of August amid
the cheers and exultation of an immense
crowd at the depot.
	In the same train was the new and
beautiful Pullman car, Pickwick, fitted up
with every modern convenience which had
on board the First Presidency of the Church,
Presidents Wilford Woodruff, George Q.


[Column 1]
Cannon and Joseph F. Smith with some 
members of their families and some friends,
invited guests of party.
	On their journey Eastward the large
company were well received at every
stopping place, and concerts were given by
the choir at Denver, Kansas City, St. Louis
and other places and at Independence Mo.
there was quite an interesting meeting and
assembly. This is one of the most historic
places in the reminescences of the Church,
and many of this people were anxious to
know how the Mormons would be re-
ceived, where years before they had been
expelled from their own homes and pos-
sessions. The reception and welcome
greeting given to the Latter-day Saints at
this place was very gratifying to those who
knew of the bitterness of the past, and
shows that prejudice is gradually giving
way to the better judgment, and that there
is more tolerance of religious faiths con-
trary to the old orthodox views of the
established Churches of the country.
	When the First Presidency and choir
with the friends who accompanied them
reached Independence having been previous-
ly waited upon by a special committee of five
citizens, they repaired immediately to the
Temple lot where a large assembly of
people were waiting to welcome them.
The Hedrickite house of worship stands
there but as it was not large enough to ac-
commodate all, a platform had been ar-
ranged outside and the First Presidency
and leading men of Independence were
seated there. The choir sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning,” and the
crowd moved across the street to the
Josephite Church which was soon packed
with people.
	The Mayor of the city gave the following
address of welcome,
	“To you American freemen, visitors from
the Far West, from a land of fruits, of
flowers, of milk and honey, I am here as a
representative of the citizens of Indepen-
dence, Mo., a broad, open people, free from
bigotry, generous, law-abiding, God-fear-
ing and lovers of liberty, and extend in
their names and in their behalf the right
hand of fellowship and a hearty welcome
to our city, hoping that the memory of this
day may be ever garnered in each of our
hearts, and treasured as one of the most
happy events of our lives.”
	President Woodruff responded, thanking
the people for their warm welcome and in-
voked the blessing of heaven upon them.
He then introduced President Cannon, who
briefly followed in the same strain and said
the welcome we had received while it was
unexpected was all the more deeply ap-
preciated. He closed by blessing them in
the name of the Lord and the choir sang
the anthem “Light and Truth,” and in
answer to an enthusiastic recall sang the
Temple anthem “Hosannah.” R. C.
Easton, by request, sang “O My Father.”
	One can easily understand how affecting
these services would be to those acquainted
with the history of the past.
	Arriving in Chicago there was little if
any difficulty in getting settled, everything
having been carefully arranged beforehand.
	The concerts in Chicago were well at-
tended and the choir singing, as well as the
solos given on Utah day at Festival Hall
and at the Utah Building, seem from all re-
ports to have been very fine and warmly
applauded as well as greatly appreciated.
	“Music hath charms to soothe the
savage breast,” the poet says, and it may
[Column 2]
be that through the musical and inpiring
efforts of the choir, much prejudice may be
swept away relative to this people especially
as regards ignorance and lack of cultivation,
for music denotes the highest cultivation of
a people, and the songs they sing are al-
ways indicative of the character, tone and
standing of a nation or a people. The
visit of the Tabernacle choir to the World’s
Fair will without doubt dispel many
erroneous views and notions and be
advantagous in many ways.
	The competition of the four choirs at the
Fair for the largest prize ever offered at a
national festival of this kind, will adver-
tise the singers more than all else, and
place them in rank before the public; here-
after it can scarcely be said as it has been
in standard magazines recently, there is no
music west of Cincinnati.
	The choir seems to have made friends
and produced a favorable impression every-
where, and the results must certainly be
beneficial in many ways. The choir leader
being a Welshman may have had some-
thing to do with the success and influence,
but we had much rather believe it was the
excellence of the work, wrought through
him in a great measure, and the tone and
superior quality and power of the voices of
the native sons and daughters of these
sacred mountain vales, girded by the ever-
lasting hills, scenery calculated to inspire
the poet and the singer.
	Though it was only the second prize
that was awarded to the Salt Lake Choir,
there were many good judges of music who
believed it should have been the first, but
as the choir that took the first prize reunited
with the professional singers from Wales,
it is not strange that they should have
been awarded the first prize; it does not
seem to have been a fair proceeding, but
the judges appointed declared it permissible,
so that no complaint would have been
listened to if made. However the people
of Salt Lake may feel a laudable pride in
the victory won by the Tabernacle choir
and due honor will be given them in the
welcome home and reception tendered to
them.
	The sad news of the serious illness of
Bessie Deane Allison’s babe causing them
to hurry homeward, restrained the public
from making any demonstration on the
arrival home, such as was made at their
departure; it would have been out of place
when one of the sweetest singers of their
number was plunged into the depths of sor-
row by the sudden news of her baby’s
condition. All sympathized with her and
every heart was  lifted in fervent prayer
that the child might be spared until her
return and that prayer was granted, though
it did not survive many hours after. May
our Father in Heaven give unto this sor-
rowing mother the comforting influence of
His holy spirit to abide with her, as He has
promised to all, who bow in submission to
His will.
	The choir arrived in this City on 
Wednesday morning September 13, and it
is expected will give one or two concerts in
the Tabernacle, when the people may show
their appreciation of the efforts made, while
away in assembling to hear the sweet
singers of Israel in their accustomed places
with the great organ accompaniment in the
Salt Lake Tabernacle at home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.			37


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Ladies of the Needle-work Guild 
sent notices to all the charitable institutions
and Associations which they know of not
forgeting the Deseret Hospital, from which
notice they have not yet received a reply as
the Resident Physician, Dr. R. B. Pratt was
absent at the World’s Fair, but has now
returned and will undoubtedly answer the
Secretary’s circular letter.
	ONE of the curious happenings of late is
the appearance of the large eagle on the
towers of the Temple and on the head of
the statue of Moroni, also on the trumpet.
The writer accidentally saw it and felt im-
pressed that it was a good omen.
	COPIES of the book of poems “Songs
and Flowers of the Wasatch," are now
ready and may be obtained from this office,
price $1.00; there is only a limited supply
and persons wishing to secure a copy should 
apply soon.
	THERE will be a semi-annual Conference
of the Relief Society held sometime during
the General Conference of the Church; the
time and place of meeting will be given at
a later date.  It is earnestly requested that
the Presidents of Stakes attend or their
Counselors or Secretary should represent
them at the Conference, as there will be
important matters to be considered that will
require the attention of the officers.
	A REPORT of the Silk Industry of this 
Territory from the very beginning of the
work has been prepared and forwarded to
the Honorable Committee on Silk and Silk
Culture at the World's Fair in Chicago Ill.
It will not be long now until we shall
know the result of the very earnest efforts
made by the ladies here to give Utah a fair
representation in that particular industry.
Statistics etc.  of the labors of our sisters
in various parts of the Territory have been
compiled in this report and the facts set
forth in a concise and comprehensive man-
ner, and it is ardently hoped will receive
careful attention from the men and the wo-
men who have been appointed judges.
	ON Thursday evening Sep. 14th, there
was a very pleasant gathering of a few
friends and acquaintances at the residence
of Mrs. Amelia F. Young to spend a social
evening and to hear Prof. Scott Rue of
New York City relate some of his experience
in traveling in our own country, and in
foreign lands, the beautiful scenery and
interesting incidents connected therewith.
There was some fine piano music by Miss
Minnie Folsom and Mr. Wilby Dougall
and a song “The Holy City,” feeling-
ly rendered by Mr.  Hugh Dougall.  Re-
freshments were served in a dainty fashion
and altogether the evening was very enter-
taining; Mrs.  Young is an admirable
hostess and her visitors always enjoy her
hearty welcome and amiability. Of the
guests present we noticed President Angus
M. Cannon, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs.
Lizzie F. Young, Mr. O. J. Salisbury and
wife, Mr. W. B. Dougal and wife, Mr. Sam
Fenton and wife, Mr. Hinman Fulsom wife
and daughter, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Dr.
M. Hughes Cannon, Miss Patterson of the
Herald Staff, Mrs. Priscilla Staines, Mrs.
Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Mc. Donald and 
others.
	MRS. POTTER PALMER has been at
Mackinac Island since the adjournment of
the Lady Board of Managers.  The report
that she had gone to Washington, D. C.,
is not true.


38   		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ABRIDGED SKETCH OF 
HISTORY.
“The Lord is our Shepherd.”
	THIS was the language of king David,
who was comforted and blessed by the in-
spiration of those words, “The Lord is our
Shepherd.” Now I would ask, how often
have we repeated the same with a full
assurance that we have the same kind
Shepherd and friend?
	I am satisfied that those of our people
who came to this valley at an early date can
reflect upon the past with a grateful ac-
knowledgement that the Lord has ever been
our Shepherd, to guide, to comfort and
bless all those who rely upon Him and keep
His commands.
	I well remember how beautiful and
peaceful was the sight of Great Salt Lake,
yet the ground looked so barren and dry,
excepting a luxurious growth of sage
brush.  The thought arose, without rain
how can we stay here.  This was in the
year 1847.  But our great Shepherd gave
us wisdom, that by industry and persever-
ance we could raise crops of vegetables, yes
and grain also.
	At that time Jordan River (as we called
it) was a very small stream; it sank in the
sand before it reached the lake—the lake
also was quite low.  I know when we
visited it the first time Black Rock was on
the shore.  We kindled a fire and cooked
our dinner by this rock, and for years we
could go to the island on a sand bar.  Yes a
long train of wagons went on this sand
bar to celebrate a birthday I think, but I
know we had a grand party that day.  This
was in 1859 I know, because my son was
one year old at this time.  But I am going
ahead too fast.  I wish to speak of our first
winter in this valley.
	The first winter was very pleasant, much
more so than any winter I ever saw in the
state of New York, where I was born and
grew to womanhood.  But the cricket war
was early the next summer, shall it ever
be forgotten?  Our gardens were planted
near City creek to be irrigated by that
stream, but our homes were in the fort.
	The soil after being well watered pro-
duced splendid crops; the largest radishes
and turnips I ever saw.  But one day the
crickets came in abundance.
	I shall never forget Br. Staines’ nursery
of young trees, looking so lovely, but while
he went to dinner they were all devoured
by crickets excepting three young plum
trees. Such destructive creatures I never
saw.   The fight began, but to no avail; it
seemed impossible to subdue them.  What
could we do, only go to God for help;
which help came in the form of sea gulls
from the lake. They came in swarms, and
devoured the crickets.  They gorged them-
selves then threw them up and ate again
until every cricket was gone.  With what
gratitude did we behold this wonderful res-
cue.  Even the children could see and feel
that God did hear and answer our prayers.
Our united thanks were offered daily to
heaven for this miraculous help.
	This humility and faith in God prepared
us for another blessing which we also
appreciated.
	It was simply this.  A new President
came into office by the name of Millard
Fillmore, when he was asked who should
be governor of Utah; he thought Brigham
Young the most competent man to fill the
place.  Again we thanked our Father for
His protecting care, and again resolved to
serve Him to the best of our ability.
	In doing this we always prosper, who
can deny it. Coming here into an Indian
country, would not the native people feel
that we were intruders and not welcome.
	This required great wisdom, and where
could it be found only from the fountain of 
light and intelligence.  If white people
were our enemies and had driven us out,
what could we expect from the Indians.
	Well that wisdom was obtained by
prayer, as our Savior said. ‘‘Seek and ye
shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto you.”
	The next intelligence we received from
Washington was, that President Fillmore
had appointed Gov. Young to be agent of
Indian affairs.—Again we felt that the
Lord provides for His erring children and
would give us wisdom to make friends with 
the tribes of Indians.
	Our settlement was in the form of a fort,
with doors inside and only a port hole on
the outside, that we could protect ourselves
in time of need.
	We always treated the Indians friendly,
giving them what they asked for; and inas-
much as we had spoiled their hunting
ground, our flocks and herds would make
amends.
	Yet they would slyly kill a man and
sometimes two at a time, when our people 
would rally to know the cause, and find
one of their braves had died and they want-
ed a white man to bury with him to be his
servant on the happy hunting ground.
Brother George A. Smith’s son and Bishop
Woolley’s son, were both killed about the
same time.  Dr.   Whitmore and Robert
Mclntire at another time, Thomas Williams
at another time, and Mr. Hatton and others
when standing on guard, etc, etc.,  When
Walker died he being their chief, they
asked President Young for a man to bury
with him.  But the President answered,
“No! not a man but as many horses as you
like.”
	After President Fillmore’s time had ex-
pired, another President took his place; and
another governor was appointed for Utah.
But some of our false brethren told this
President that we would not accept of any
other one to govern us but Brigham Young.
	This would never do, as any sensible
person would know.  Accordingly an army
of 10,000 men were sent to teach Utah
government and to show proper respect to
those who govern.
	Again we went to God for wisdom.  Our
faith prevailed.  He gave us wisdom to
defeat Gen. Johnston’s army without one
drop of blood shed.  After this Col. Conner
brought an army of volunteers from Cali-
fornia to keep the Mormons in subjection.
He planted a Military Post just east of our
city, and sometimes when walking round
temple block they were heard to say, ‘‘it
would only be a breakfast spell to use up
this place.” Well that whip has been laid
up there for more than 20 years but not
used yet.
	Yet there are a class of persons who can
always see, that we are in need of a chas-
tisement.  I well remember when President 
Young was a prisoner in his own house, I 
called to see one of his wives, and while in
conversation with her he came into the
room.
	After shaking hands I was invited to
dinner, and being anxious to talk with 
Brother Brigham I accepted the invitation:
and at length,  asked him, “President
Young why is it that every trial we have
seems heavier to bear?” “Well what is
heavy now,” said he, “why” said I,
“when an effort is made to destroy the
head of the Church this I call heavy."—
“Oh no he replied, this is all right, nothing
wrong we are all at home.” He did not 
wish to see any one sorrowful or cast down 
all is right he replied, nothing wrong.
	His composure of mind and confidence
that all was right,  was quite refreshing to
me, while I looked at him with astonish-
ment and admiration. Yet the result was
exactly as he said it would be, all right:
because a spirit of inspiration was upon
him no doubt.
	This event was preparing him for a still
greater event which transpired in a few days
after,  while still a prisoner in his own
house.
	This was the great fire at Chicago, burn-
ing nearly half of the city.  I remember
calling on Sister Heywood a neighbor of
ours who kept boarders.  She was going to
market one morning, and saw three men
just ahead of her, hurrying to the depot.
One of them said, is it not strange that this
fire should take place at Chicago, just as
we are here to carry out the Chicago plat-
form?
	When she came home she told us what
this man said.  A query arose: What
could this platform be.  Perhaps they
thought President Young would play some
trick to  get away, and then this platform
would do something wonderful.  But our
kind and heavenly Father ordered it other
wise.
	Who could fail to feel for so many people
left homeless and without food?  Did
President Young feel for them? Yes, he
sent one thousand dollars to the sufferers,
Brother George Q. Cannon sent five hundred
and Brother Hooper sent five hundred.
Brother Jennings sent three hundred, other
merchants sent some one hundred others
sent fifty dollars, making a nice little sum
of money sent to those who would rejoice
in our destruction; and no doubt help to
accomplish it.
	Yet this mattered not to President Young
and those of our faith. It was for us to
keep the laws that Jesus gave to his dis-
ciples, and then leave the event in His
hands; all is right then, whether in life or
in death: for this life is short at best. And
one thing we know that the gospel of
Jesus Christ, gives us that peace of mind
which the world cannot. give or take from 
us.
	Since the death of President Young our
trials have come in different ways.  But
in all this we remember the words of Jesus
were; that “it must needs be that offences
come, but woe unto them by whom they
come.” My daily prayer is may I never
be of that class who would afflict another
because they do not see a subject as I see
it.
	No! rather let us remember the words of
Job who said, of the Lord. “Has not He
a right to chastise as well as to bless?”
We also learn from the prophet Joseph who
said: “The Lord is angry with none ex-
cepting those who will not acknowledge 
His hand in all things; and obey not his
commandments.” Can we do this? Jesus
said if you will keep my words as I have
kept my Father’s words you shall share
with me my glory. Shall not we try to
do it?			M.E. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S   EXPONENT.


WAYNE STAKE.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	WAYNE STAKE was organized May 27th
and 28th, 1893. Apostles F. M. Lyman
and M. W. Merrill being present. Apostle
F. M. Lyman presiding. Our stake Presi-
dency are William E. Robinson President,
Hans Hanson and Gastian Bastian Coun-
selors, they are very good kind men, and
are much esteemed by the people.
	The Presidency of the Relief Society of
Wayne Stake are Jane S. Coleman, Presi-
dent, Mary Ellen Hanks and Sarah S.
Forsythe Counselors, Florence M. Williams
Secretary. After the Stake organization
myself and Counselors considered it best
to visit each R. S. in the Stake and hold
meetings with them and get acquainted, that
a united feeling might prevail. We have
done so and realize it will be productive of
much good, we were received with kind-
ness by all of the branches. Commenced
to visit June 20th, held meeting with Fre-
mont R. S. their Bishop and a number of
brethren favored us with their presence,
much good instruction was given.
	Next day 21st, held meeting with the
Loa R. S. President Robinson and the
Bishopric attended also other brethren, a
variety of subjects were spoken of that
were edifying and elevating in character.
	The Loa R. S. was reorganized with
Margaret J. Taylor, President, Elizabeth
C. Jeffry and Bathsheba Grundy, Counse-
lors, Pauline Brown, Secretary, Sarah Ann
Robinson, Treasurer.
	In the afternoon of the 21st, met with
East Loa R. S. Bishop B. F. Brown and
Counselor J. Grover present, had an enjoy-
able meeting spoke of the instructions re-
cieved at the general Relief Society Con-
ference in Salt Lake City.
	Held meeting with Thurber R. S. on the
22nd, at 10 a. m. Bishop Wm. Meeks and
other brethren present, the remarks made
were timely and well recieved.
	Held meeting at Teasdale 2 p. m. Bishop
George Coleman present, same day re-
organized Teasdale R. S. with Mary
Eleanore Adams, President, Lydia C.
Adams and Maria J. Chaffin, Counselors,
Maggie S. Adams, Secretary, Emma Fran-
com, Treasurer, good remarks were made
exhorting to being faithful in the discharge
of every duty.
	On the 23rd held meeting with Grover
R. S. Of Teasdale Ward every member was
in attendance. U. V. Stewart Presiding
Priest present, a good spirit was enjoyed
good instructions given and the visit of the
Presidency of the Relief Society appreciated
by the sisters.
	On July 12th we wrote to each President
to have read in their meetings, “Utah
Women in Chicago’’ and June 15th num-
ber of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Also have their teachers canvas their
districts for subscribers for WOMAN'S
EXPONENT hope the result will increase
your list and be a pleasure to those who
subscribe.
	August 7th started for the lower settle- 
ments, held meeting at Cainesville. Au-
gust 8th at 2 p. m. was happily surprised to
have President Robinson and Counselor
G. Bastian attend our meeting also, the
Bishopric and several brethren; we spoke
upon the merits of the R. S. also the bene-
fits accrueing, and there-from a Relief
Society was organized with Eliza Rust,
President, Isabelle Dalton and Alvira Mur-
dock, Counselors, Agnes Carrol, Secretary,
Olive Carrol, Treasurer. President Robin-
son and Counselor G. Bastian made remarks
favorable to the Relief Society, showing
forth the good it accomplished.
	August 9th at 11 a. m. held meeting at
Aldridge of Cainesville Ward, Bishop
Walter Hanks and a number of brethren
present, good instructions were given and
the spirit of the Gospel characterized the
remarks of the speakers. In times past they
had a R. S. in that place, their President
Sarah C. Durfee had done a good work but
had moved. A Society was reorganized with
Thersa Coombs, President, Patre Turgenson
and Maria Smith, Counselors, Electa John-
son, Secretary, Elisabeth Gardner,
Treasurer.
	August 10th at 2 p. m held meeting at
Blue Valley. President W. E. Robinson,
Counselor G. Bastian, Bishop Heber J.
Wilson and a number of brethren were
present, good practical instructions were
given pertaining to building on their town
site, nearly all are living on their farm.
The subjects were union, charity and the
like and will be productive of good results.
A Society was organized with Mary Ann
Lords, President, Eliasbeth Giles and Annie
Bingham, Counselors, Sister Cook, Secre-
tary, Mary Ann White, Treasurer. 
	August 11th at 10 a. m. held meeting at
Graves Valley of the Blue Valley Ward.
President W. E. Robinson, Counselor G.
Bastian, the Bishopric of the ward and a
number of the brethren were present, we
had a very good meeting, the spiritual and
temporal of our holy religion was protrayed,
the organization of the R. S. by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. A Relief Society
was organized. Lucy Thompson, Presi-
dent, Jane Sylvester and Martha Stoddard,
Counselors, Hannah A. Elliot, Secretary,
Nettie Sanford, Treasurer.
	We appreciated the presence of our
President W. E. Robinsou and Counselor 
G. Bastian and the good counsel given by
them to each R. S. after the organization
was effected, we had very interesting
meetings and enjoyed the spirit of our
high calling, felt the blessings of our
Heavenly Father were with us in our
labors, and have faith that the Wayne
Stake Relief Society will not be behind in
good works.
	JANE S. COLEMAN, President.
	FLORENCE M. WILLIAMS, SEC'Y.


[Column 1]
THE WAR OF 1812.

[Concluded.]
	Mr. Madison thought, to appoint Henry
Clay commander in chief of the armies,
but that gentleman’s lack of military
knowledge totally unfitted him for the
position. Later there were appointed
Henry Dearborn, who had been a major
in the first war, and had served in Jef-
ferson’s cabinet,  commander in chief, and
associated with him as Brigadier, Generals
were James Wilkinson, Wade Hampton,
William Hull and Joseph Bloomfield, and
Thomas Pinckney Major-general.
	The intention had been to invade Canada
and annex it to the United States.
	The patriots said, “If we defeated Eng-
land with half our present population be-
fore, we can now drive all English from
America.’’
	The regular army at the beginning of
the war scarcely amounted to 5,000 regulars,

[Column 2]
so the president was empowered to call for
50,000 volunteers and 100,000 militia; but
some of the states refused to accede to this
demand much to the distress of the country.
	General Hull was placed in command of
the North Western army and to him the
conquest of Canada. If Arnold was a
traitor in the first war, Hull was a laggard in
the war of 1812. To his timidity and
unofficerlike conduct (for which he was
afterward courtmartialed and only saved
from death by the President) can be at-
tributed the loss of Canada.
	Thus the British gained power which was
not regained again in the north by the
Americans. The war in the north was
afterward, waged by Winfield Scott but in
the main was unsuccessful.
	The American soldiers seemed to lose on
the Canadian Side all the courage which so
marked them while defending their country.
While battle after battle was lost on land,
the American vessels were signally suc-
cessful on sea, meeting and almost
invariably defeating larger ships carrying
more guns than the redoubtable little ves-
sels of the United States.
	The “Constitution” carrying forty-four
guns, was in July chased by a whole
squadron of English Men of War and
afterwards retaliated by sinking the
“Guerriere” in a conflict of forty-five
minutes.
	This victory brought renown to the name
of Hull which had almost become a by-
word in the United States, and placed our
navy among the successful navies of the
world.
	General Dearborn never led the army into
a conflict in person; and seemed to have
planned but weakly.
	Congress withheld taxes and supplies for a
year awaiting the results of a Presidential 
election.
	The generals selected were from the
generations of people who had not been in
war, consequently many were undeserving
and incompetent. Yet a number of the
officers won renown for themselves and
country.
	Now the English claimed in a manifesto
they were reluctantly drawn into this war,
and that America had always shown sub-
servance to France and a hostility to
England.
	This manifesto was answered by Presi-
dent Madison in a most Patriotic and
Masterly address, delivered on his second
inauguration.
	The war of 1812 was by far one of great-
er moment and in the whole had greater
victories than the preceding year.
	Commodore Perry’s victory over the
English Squadron on the lakes, Generals
Harrison and Jackson’s great victories on
land were matters that sustained the fire of
patriotism and gave confidence to American
Arms.
	Passing hurriedly to the close we find the
English before New Orleans, confronted
by General Andrew Jackson and in one of
the most terrible battles fought during
tie campaign, defeated the English,
virtually ending the war.
	Meanwhile the British Government had
become weary of continuing a war, at
once so disastrous to interests and fatal to
her prestige had appointed Lord Gambier,
Henry Goulburn, and William Adams to ’ 
negotiate with Messrs. Adams, Clay,
Bayard, Gallatin and Russell of the United
States upon a treaty of peace.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The commissioners met at Ghent and
concluded on the 24th, December, 1814.
Ratified by Congress on February 17th,
1815.
	The news was brought by an English
sloop of war “Favorite” under a flag of
truce, and was hailed with the greatest
joy.
	As the president expressed it “Peace was
peculiarly welcome just then.
	March 30th following was set apart as a
day of rejoicing throughout the nation.
	Friends of the administration became
lovers, enemies were silenced and thus
closed the war of 1812.


IN MEMORIAM.
	WITH profound sadness we record the death of
another of God’s noble women, Sister Lydia Ann
Jolley the beloved wife of Elder Williamson
Westley Jolley, and loving daughter of Brother
John Brimhall and Sister Annaretta Harris Brim-
hall. Sister Lydia Ann departed this life March
28th 1893, after suffering intensely for several
months with cancer in the stomach. She was
born September 19th, 1851, at Payson, Utah Co,
and was married March 31st, 1866 to Elder Wil-
liamson Westley Jolly, by whom she had ten
children, nine of whom are living, she has ever
been a faithful wife and mother and an earnest
worker in the cause of truth. She was selected
as treasurer in the first organization of this Relief
Society which was effected April 1st, 1877, and in
March 4th, 1883 was chosen as Counselor in this
Relief Society which position she honorably held
at the time of her death. She was a model wife,
mother and house-keeper. Her home, the place
where she displayed those charming attributes of
character that made it a paradise on earth, to
those with whom she was thus associated. She
was a faithful saint in the full sense of the term;
no sacrifice was too great for her to make for the
Gospel’s Sake. She was loved and respected by
all who knew her.
	She suffered greatly but never murmured,
through her last illness she manifested unbounded
faith in the ordinances of the Gospel. Surround-
ed by her husband and children by her parents,
her brother and sisters and a host of friends, her
every, wish was anticipated. Everything that love
and sympathy could do was lavished upon her;
but prayers and tears were unavailing to prolong
her earthly career. God in his infinite wisdom
had called her home. The parting ordeal was
very severe especially for the heart broken hus-
band who scarcely left her bedside during all the
latter part of her illness. Sister Lydia Ann's
nature was purely domestic, home was the place
she adorned, and no truer wife and mother ever
lived. May the Holy Spirit be with the bereaved
ones to comfort them in their hour of trial and
prepare them for the joyful reunion awaiting
them She died as she had lived: firm in the
principles of the gospel, in the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord!”
		CYNTHIA ANN JOLLEY, President.
		EFFIE S. JOLLEY,Asst. Secretary.


OBITUARIES.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Mary Cooper Oakey
who departed this life March 28th, 1893, at Dingle,
Bear Lake Co. Idaho. She was born March 25,
1812, at Brumsley, Nottinghamshire, England.
She joined the Church in 1849 Emigrated to
Utah 1862. Came to Paris, Bear Lake in 1865 and
was a teacher in the first Relief Society organized
in Bear Lake Valley she moved to Dingle 1873,
and held the office of first counselor to the Relief
Society at the time of her death.
	Whereas it has pleased God our Heavenly
Father to call from our midst our beloved sister
and friend at a good old age.
	Therefore be it resolved by the members of the
Dingle Relief Society that while we feel sad at
parting with our sister we will remember her
earnest exhortation, and practical faith in her
religion.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family also published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and the same be placed upon the
Record of the Relief Society.


Weep not that her toil is over,
Weep not that her race is run.
Committee
JANE A. SPARKS, Prest.
MARY ANN NATE,
SARAH DAYTON.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	IN memory of Emily Worthrop Woodard who
died in Kamas, July 12th, 1893; aged 86 years,
6 months and 5 days. Grandma Woodard, as
she was lovingly called, was born in Milford,
Conn. Embraced the Gospel in 1840,in Kirtland,
Ohio and emigrated to Utah with her family in
1847. She was a member of the first Relief
Society in Nauvoo and was a faithful member of
the Kamas Relief Society and was ever ready to
bless and comfort the sick and sorrowing, and,
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His wisdom has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved sister.
	Therefore be it resolved that we the members
of the Relief Society emulate her humble and
faithful example.
	Resolved that we present a copy of these
resolutions, to the bereaved family, with our
sympathy for their loss, of a kind and loving
mother, and wise counselor, and that a copy be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and a copy
be placed on the record of the Relief Society.
ANN HARDER, Prest.
SARAH HARDER, Ass't. Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF. RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Elsie Booth, who
departed this life at Alpine, Utah July 10, 1893,
after a short illness, but passed away in a calm
sleep.
	Sister  Booth was born at Bedford Leigh,
Lancashire, England Dec. 21, 1825. She joined
the Relief Society here in 1867 and has been a
faithful worker ever since, she was a teacher and
secretary which offices she faithfully performed
the duties of for many years.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
his Alwise Providence to call from our midst our
dearly beloved sister,
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief
Society feel that we have lost a true and faithful
worker, always ready and willing to do good.
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and re-
gard her wise counsel ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in
the Record Book ot the Society and a copy sent
to the EXPONENT for publi[---]
	In behalf of the Relief Society
Committee
MARIA ADAMS,
MARY E. BATERMAN,
R. Y. NASH.

May we follow your example,
	Be as humble and as true.
Wear a crown as bright in glory,
	And return in peace like you.
R. Y. N.


DIED at Georgetown, Kane Co. Utah. July 4th,
1893, Sarah Elizabeth Stewart wife of Joseph A.
Stewart. She was the daughter of William F.
and Mary Ewell; was born April 18th, 1841, in
Livingston Co. Missouri and was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of L. D. S. when
eight years old; came to Utah, walking the great-
er part of the way. In 1862 she was married to
J. A. Stewart at Salt Lake City. She lived in
several places in the Territory and at one time
was president of the Relief Society in the Pahreah
Branch of the Kanab Ward which office she
faithfully performed. She was the mother of
six children all of whom were fondly attached to
her. She was always kind and good to her family
and to all,and died in full faith in the gospel. She
seemed to have a great desire for her children to
be faithful Latter Day Saints to study the gospel
and to live it.
Lydia A. Johnson.


DIED at Brigham City, Utah June 6th, 1893—of
cancer and tumor, Sine Peterson, beloved wife
of I. C. Peterson of Snowville. Born March 18th,
1836 in Denmark, was baptized in Dec. 1874, and
emigrated to Utah the same year: was married to
J. C. Peterson in January 1875, was called to the
office of Teacher in the Relief Society in Brigham
City before it was divided into Wards in 1876,
moved to Snowville  in 1884 ,and was called to
the same office in the Relief Society of Snowville
which office she held at the time of her death and
filled honorably and faithfully, as long as her
afflictions would allow her so to do. She lived and
died a faithful Latter-day Saint and the Relief
Society of this Ward feel that in her death they


have lost a faithful sister and co-laborer but that
our loss is her gain.
	Your sister in the Gospel of Peace.
MARY GOODLIFFE Prest.


MRS. ISABELLA BEECHER HOOKER is
the most cosmopolitan woman at the Ex- 
position. Everywhere she seems to carry
out as far as possible in her own person the
hospitable duties which she felt were of
sufficient importance to have warranted the
sitting of the Board of Lady Managers
during the summer. Her welcome to the
Catholics on their great day at the World’s
Fair and her part in the discussion at the
Jewish Women’s Congress, are two recent
instances of many that show her wide
sympathy with all who think and work and
aspire.—Ex.


R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, F[---]
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.
WEST TEMPLE STREET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables. 
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, 
SURGEON AND ACCOUCHER.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.

MAGGIE C. SHIPP, M. D.
	Will commence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing about the
middle of October.
Office, 34 East 5th South.
Telephone 383.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p m

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agents for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
[--]country promptlv responded to
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 22. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1893. NO. 6.﻿


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. The Children—
Selected. Notes and News. A Few Reflections
—Ida Haag. Perfection—Zion’s Convert. Re-
turning Home—W. East. Farewell Party—Ann
Harvey. R. S. and Union Primary Reports. 
Slavery—Ann E. Neal. Obituary—Sarah C. Cox.
	EDITORIAL.—New Zealand Leads. A Pleasant
Journey and Visit. In Memoriam—Mercy R.
Thompson.
	POETRY.—AEolean—E. L. G. Half-way—Al-
bert Bigelow. To Sarah—Alofa.


ÆOLEAN.

I heard the wind and I listened low:
	The   wind from  the  South, and my heart was
		light,
And I smiled to hear it  blow and blow,
As it fanned my cheek to a burning glow,
	And my eyes were tearless and bright.
		Youth danced in the wind;
			Joy laughed in its face;
		Grief lingered behind,
			Nor found there a place.
 
I heard the wind, and my head was bent
To catch the breath of the free wild west,
It  brought as its lovely freightage sent,
The fragrance of flowers in sweetness blent;
	The perfumed flowers, I love the best
		Love came in the wind
			And entered my breast,
		Grief lingered behind;
			I deemed myself blest,

I heard the wind and I turned my face
	To feel the touch of the Eastern blast,
And I shivered and shrunk  in my smallest space
As I felt the chill of the wind-clouds trace
	And heard it hurrying past.
		Grief came in that wind
			And entered my heart
		Love loitered behind
			And sought to depart.

I heard the wind  though my head lay low
	I felt the North wind blow on me;
And I wept and moaned as I heard it blow
While its fury drove me  to and fro
	Too blinded and sad to see.
		Death came in the wind
			No power could save,
		And hope was consigned
			To the depth of the grave.
                                                        E. L. G.


HALF-WAY.
BY ALBERT BIGELOW.
THE years that steal our youth away
	Come drifting on—come drifting on
Like snowflakes that endure a day
	And then are gone.

Upon the hearth is blazing bright
	An open fire—I sit and dream,
And think how far into the night
	And storm its ruddy glow doth stream.

And then, within my heart tonight,
The flame of youth flares up once more,


To shed a gleam of flickering light
	Through all the dark that lies before.

And all the lost come back once more,
	And all the dead things live again,
And footsteps echo on the floor,
	And faces press against the pane.

And now I try so hard to catch,
	A whisper from the forms that pass,
To touch the hand that lifts the latch.
	The lips that tremble on the glass.

And seek to check the rising tears
	For sweet dead joys and loved ones gone,
For memories that like the years
	Come drifting on—come drifting on.

My fire burns low, but through the gloom
	Comes stealing in the gray of dawn,
The shadows scurry from the room
	Till all are gone.

And morn is here—the storm is past,
	The room is filled with ruddy day;
But on my head is drifting fast
	The snow that never melts away.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XXXIV.
	IN leaving one’s ancestral home there
must be many peculiar feelings, especially
when it is severing such ties forever, as in
the case of Lady Anna Walton nee Hilliard.
Although at the time of her marriage she
cared little for the old castle, afterwards
her whole being (as it were) had undergone
an entire change. Now when about to
leave it forever she felt keenly how happy
she might have been there had she only 
known the lessons she had more recently 
learned.  But these experiences only came
with the years that roll on forever in quick
succession, and youth and hope were
sanguine in her heart at the time of her
marriage and the ideal picture of love and
happiness, were the allurement that shut out
for the time the realities of life, and made
her forgetful of the happiness she might
have made for herself after her cousin Jane
was installed in the castle as chief in all
departments under her father.  She rebelled
in her heart against everything except
what ministered to her own selfishness in
the affairs of love, and seemed to realize no
home duty or obligation.
	In speaking to her cousin one day at the
old home, she remarked, “should I ever
have a daughter how different her training 
and discipline shall be to what mine was,
drilled almost in deception by those under
whose tutelage I grew up without anything
real, taught to look upon all authority as
hardship, petted and scolded, never  in-
structed in anything useful or elevating,
not even moral lessons given me until you
came my dear cousin to open my eyes to a
new world of thought and activity, and
then it was too late, I was so deeply in love
with Maitland, that I was willing to risk
all, and give up home and friends for his
society alone. How have I been repaid,
but now away from England with all its
temptations, in a new land we shall surely
enjoy that sweet tranquility and home hap-
piness for which I have so constantly
yearned.  Never having known a mother's 
love, nor that of a sister or brother while
a child until Clair came,how could I under-
stand what others knew and enjoyed.”
	Her cousin replied “My dear Anna do
not dwell upon these sombre facts, let us
forget all that  is gloomy and harrowing in
the past, and look to the future for better
things than we have known heretofore, al-
though I must not repine or murmur even
of the past, for my early home life was
very happy and indeed when I came to my
uncle Edward’s everything was so new and
remarkable that looking back upon it now,
it is like a fairy tale, and I cannot but
realize the wonderful lessons I learned of
human nature in its various phases, out of
the real book of life, and these incidents
and experiences will help me to improve
myself, and make me wiser and more help-
ful to others than I could have been had I
not been brought in contact with so many
practical and puzzling enigmas.”
	“Seriously cousin Jane do you think we
shall ever come back here, and visit these 
old, dear  old places again?"
	“If Clair does not come to America and
settle you might perhaps visit him here if
things prosper and he improves this property,
but if he is gay and reckless and neglect-
ful of the responsibility and the title he bears,
there is not money enough to keep the 
estate unembarrassed and he may lose it, in
that case what disposal would be made of
the old castle and grounds would be difficult
to tell,” was the reply of the sagacious
cousin.
	“Clair is in good hands now, cousin
Jane” said Lady Anna “Uncle Rob will
educate him in habits of life that will be
beneficial in the management of the old
ruin as well as himself, and Clair is the
dearest, good-natured boy, so fond of music
and of everything beautiful, and Uncle
Rob is the best friend to us all isn’t that so?
You know how fond he was of you, I am
sure if you had not been engaged to the
Doctor, he would have made a formal offer,
of his heart and hand, but that’s all past
and Uncle Rob will never marry he told me
so, besides he is getting old, his hair is
turning grey; but you have never a word
to say about him since he left, nor do you
ask a question of me concerning their
travels though I’m sure you must be in-
terested.’’
	During this long colloquy Mrs. Bland
had been perfectly self-possessed, but at
the mention of the name of Rob Harrison
a cold tremor thrilled through her frame
and she could scarcely stand, she remained
silent not knowing scarcely herself the 
cause of her discomposure, but for the first
time for months she recalled the dream
of the great forest, the sea, and the ship
coming in, which had so impressed her at
the time; and she regretted that her cousin
shoudl have called up Uncle Rob, just as
they were trying to  be cheerful and shut 
out from memory all the former scenes and
occurences that would aggrivate and de-
press them when saying their last goodbye
to the land of their nativity.


﻿	The preparations were hurriedly made for
leaving England by Dr. Bland and young
Lord Walton, but they were also carefully
arranged, and when at last they departed
with their families and belongings, there was
nothing particularly affecting; they had no
near relatives to mourn only the old servants
and retainers, who begged them not to go
and leave their homes to strangers; lady
Anna assured the faithful old people who
were in charge of Hilliard castle that her
brother Clair would be a kind master if they
served him faithfully, and gave some
instructions about keeping everything in
good order ’till his return which she assured
them would be very soon.
	Lady Walton the mother had written
Maitland and Anna wishing them “bon
voyage” and enjoining upon them the
remembrance that baby Edward was the
future heir to the title and estates of the
Waltons. She expressed no regrets through
she knew the mighty ocean would lie be-
tween her and her only son, who had been
the pride of her life and for whom she had
made many sacrifices.
	The excitement consequent upon leaving
home and the journey in a lumbering old
coach, was almost too much for Lady Anna
whose nervous condition was always
delicate, and the least unusual strain pros-
trated her and gave her hysterical
symptoms. Mrs. Bland had serious fears
about the sea-voyage, but having made
such determined efforts to go and sacrificed
much in leaving, there seemed no alterna-
tive but to persevere and make the best of
whatever circumstances interposed; she
knew too that her cousin would not consent
to return even were it practicable, and in
fact on some accounts it would be almost
impossible.
	Arriving at Ipswich they had a few days
to rest and recruit before going on board
and Lady Anna recuperated considerably
which gave her friends fresh courage.
	While at the seashore, Lady Anna
had time to moralize and take a restrospec-
tive view of her life; she had an inmate
reverence for things that were pure and true
and utter abhorence of evil and impurity
in fact the divinely maternal nature was
strongly and delicately developed; and now
in her more real and mature,actual life, she
looked back with a sort of horror upon the
unconscious mistakes she had made through
injudicious training, and she prayed
fervently to know what would be the
wisest and best course to pursue in the
future; for she realized a new era was
beginning for her in which material changes
might be made, that would prove elevating
to herself and her husband, as well as her
child; these ideas and thoughts she impart-
ed to her cousin in whom she felt the most
implicit confidence; and they talked to-
gether of the mode of'worship in which
both of them had been reared, though in
fact Lady Anna had no religion, (except
such as her own heart dictated) but with
Jane Bland it was different, she was a
clergyman’s daughter and knew the ritual
perfectly and all the outward forms and
ceremonies of the Church of England; she
believed in the theory as taught, but she
was not bigoted nor was she prejudiced
against other forms or principles of religious
doctrine, and had met and conversed with
dissenters whose zeal and enthusiasm she
greatly admired. Her husband the good
doctor believed in freedom of speech, and
of thought, and was vigorously opposed
to the persecution of those who differed

[Column 2]
from the established Church of his native
country. In conversing with him Mrs.
Bland had gained many new ideas, and
much general information, in regard to the
views and opinions of the class of people
called Puritans. She was not prepared to
state positively to her cousin Anna her
sentiments on the subject of religious
belief, but said to her inadvertently on one
occasion, “we are going to sail with some
of those radical Puritans; there was no
other vessel leaving in which we could get
passage.” Lady Anna was amazed,
“Why cousin Jane I have heard they are
opposed to aristocracy, they are for
equality, and hate the British government,
have no respect for rulers and believe in
having all things common.” “My dear
cousin do not be alarmed my husband
knows some of those men well, and he
says they are honorable, honest and up-
right, worthy citizens, and brave in facing
danger or even death for their religious
belief; such characteristics must necessarily
be noble.”
	“Cousin Jane I rely upon your judg-
ment more than my own, your husband
may not have the same prejudices against
the common people that Maitland has, who
is as you know a patrician born and bred,
and though I confess the Doctor to be more
truly noble in character, yet the fact still
remains; you understand me cousin, I do
not mean to offend, pardon me if I am
wrong, tell me cousin, for we are of one
lineage you and I, but we are women and
our natures are more susceptible to good-
ness and to purity, and I have learned dur-
ing the last few months such bitter lessons
of men’s arrogance and harshness towards
those ignobly born.”
	“I scarcely know what to answer, but
this, that true merit must always be my
standard of excellence as I doubt not it is
yours, and though you are several years
younger, yet you have seen enough of
‘polite society’ to convince you of the
shallowness of its forms and the insincerity
of its votaries; you grew weary of it in one
short London season, and I who am natur-
rally a sort of prude,could not countenance
even the little glimpses I had of the
‘upper ten,’ at Hilliard castle, even though
on my mother’s side I am descended
through the race from which Earls and
Barons have sprung. My father as you
know was only a poor clergyman and my
mother ignored because of her marriage
with one beneath her in rank, and I am a
Conway at heart, although uncle Edward
would insist I had the Hilliard
characteristics.’’
	“You have not answered me, satisfactorily
cousin Jane, but this I know that where we
are going titles will be of small con-
sequence, and indeed unless one has some
office under the government, we are all
commoners, and Maitland’s pride will be
terribly mortified should he be only Mr.
Walton instead of Lord Walton, as for the
Doctor his title would be the same in all
lands; and you are too wholly unselfish
ever to think of these insignificant things
that puzzle your frivolous cousin. You
have so much within yourself, and I want
some one strong and wise to lean upon, if
I only had a faith that would be sufficient
for my daily needs, as good old Angelina
used to tell me, I would not have these sad
misgivings, and doubts that seem to haunt
me now almost constantly.”
	"I am glad cousin that you remember
Angelina’s teachings, she was a Saint in

[Column 3]
very deed and told me on her death bed of
your mother’s history; things we had never
known, and some day when we are alone
and I have time I will repeat it to you;
you have her temperament,but your life has
been so different” “my mother’s history I
thought no one knew it except uncle Rob
and he would never talk of her only to
declare “she was an angel.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE CHILDREN.
	WE can never give children too many
legitimate pleasures. Childhood should be
made as sunny and happy as unlimited love
and tenderness and wise indulgence can
make it. The shadows fall soon enough
in the most fortunate lives. Yet we can-
not, with all our endeavors, make the hard
paths easy for the little feet we long to save.
The children must learn to fight their be-
setting sins, each for himself, if they are to
be strong men and women in the days to
come.
	Is there no reward that we can safely
offer to cheer them in the contest beside the
abstract satisfaction that comes from a
sense of duty done? There is one very
potent one. In a household where love
rules, and there is perfect confidence be-
tween parents and children, it is stronger
and more compelling than any that can be
devised. This is the warm approbation
and loving approval of those in authority
freely bestowed when it is deserved. We
have all felt our hearts thrill at a word of
praise from those we love. No effort has
seemed too great to win again the smile of
pleasure, or the expression of satisfaction
that gave such deep delight, weariness
we count as naught, trouble we do not
recognize as such while we are striving to
call it forth. A few syllables of apprecia-
tion and gratitude, one look of love, repay
us a thousandfold for all that we have done.
If we fail, if there is no recognition of our
efforts, no response to our mute appeal, if
we are met with silent indifference, or per-
haps even impatient criticism of something
we have left undone in our haste to do all,
we are apt to feel for the moment that life
is not very well worth living. Worse than
this it requires a greater effort than most of
us are capable of to rise above our crushing
disappointment, and take up our daily
burdens in that spirit of patience we ought
to bring to them. Our hearts harden as
the conviction forces itself upon us that
those we love do not care for anything we
can do to please them, or do not think that
we can do sufficently well to merit their
commendation. Few of us realize what a
mighty spur to well doing is contained in
words of loving praise, or how we sin
affainst those nearest to us in with-holding
them when they are deserved.—SELECTED.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. LAURA ORMISON CHANT went
on to California from the Religious Con-
gresses in Chicago. She is filling several
engagements there.
	MRS. LUCY STONE is seriously ill. In
answer to many inquiries, we state that she
is much reduced in flesh and in strength,
but suffers no pain, and generally passes
comfortable nights. Any important change
will be reported in the Journal, A. S. B.
Woman's Journal Sep. 30th.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SARAH.

THIS fern, a little beauty, on the rugged moun-
	tain grew;
And gets its pretty lustre from storms it has
	passed through,
It grew where great old boulders for years have
	reared their heads;
To mark the lonely beaten path,the weary travel-
	er treads;
Where rain has poured in torrents, where fiercest
	winds have blown
By Nature’s God protected, my tiny fern has
	grown.

The rays of scorching summer sun’s might well
	have dried its leaves,
Or roaming beast have nipped it from the soil to
	which it cleaves;
The pouring rains have washed its roots and left
	them bare and dry
For coming winds to twirl about and scatter in
	the sky.
But lo! a giant tree is there to temper wind and
	rain—
Protection from the burning rays the sun sheds
	there in vain.

And thus the little plant has grown in beauty 
	wondrous, grand,
Until, to fill a higher sphere, ‘twas plucked by
	human hand
And pressed and dried, and now is sent to one
	across the sea—
A token of undying love which fills my heart for
	thee;
Although a thing of little worth, it yet may serve
	this end
And, till once more I clasp thy hand, remind thee 
	of a friend.

And cannot we compare our lives unto the little
	fern?
Do giant rocks not lift their heads at every nook
	and turn?
Do trials not like pouring rain descend upon our
	cot?
Our faults, are they not like the wind exposed
	with little thought?
Do sickness, want and sorrow come, like wither-
	ing summer heat?
And does not Father ever guard our humble, low
	retreat?

And when death takes us from the place we long
	have known and loved,
And we to fill a holier sphere, from trying scenes
	are moved,
For all the sorrows we have passed, the trials
	we’ve endured,
Shall we not shine the brighter in the joy we have
	secured?
O, let the fern a lesson teach of guileless trust
	and love,
That we may serve our Maker’s plan and dwell
	with Him above.
							ALOFA.
Samoa, Oct, 18th, 1892.


A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	IT was a charming and most pleasing
scene that met my gaze as I called at Sister
A’s one warm sunny afternoon,and the one
hour chit chat that followed was a source
of real pleasure and edification to me and
from which I will sketch a few lines, which
possibly may assist some poor tired over-
worked mother.
	Mrs. A. arose and bade me welcome
with one of her sweet motherly smiles,
Brother A. who was seated at the farther
end of their neat pretty sitting room busily
writing welcomed me in his usually abrupt,

[column 2]
precise yet gentlemanly; manner after the
first common everyday greetings had been
passed we gradually launched out and
touched upon subjects that much interested
me they being people of culture and refine-
ment I was conscious that here I might
learn a lesson that might be possibly a
future benefit to me and many others, as I
had often heard of her great magnanimous
sterling character and not unfrequently
heard her styled a noble mother in Israel,
and who could doubt it looking on that
calm unruffled face. 
	While speaking upon the past, present,
and future, she said, “In my native country
I had never been accustomed to hard
drudgery labor, being forced to resort to
this on my arrival here in Utah this became
a very severe trial, as I was not very strong
often I would weepover the wash tub as
felt my strength failing and almost give
up disheartened, then my better self would
come to my rescue and I would retire to an
old covered in wagon box and pray in secret
to my Heavenly Father for strength in that
great hour of trial.” She further said,
“I would then feel strengthened and per-
fectly able to finish the task allotted to me
and would even finish with a song on my
lips, I knew my Father had heard and
answered my prayer.” Mrs. A. continued
in her sweet winning way “to be cheerful at
work became a fixed rule and I felt well
repaid on hearing my husband once say to
a gentleman friend who had been complain-
ing of blue Monday,” “It isn’t so at our
house, my wife is always cheerful on that
day and I feel stimulated as I hear my
children say ‘mother always sings when
she has a difficult task to perform.”
	After a somewhat lengthy call, and I had
left this noble woman’s house, I felt much
satisfaction at the time well spent, and as the
result of my call many thoughts flashed
through my mind and I asked myself, how
many homes might be transformed into al-
most a paradise that are now cheerless if
Sister A’s. rule was but adopted. How
many wives might entice their husbands to
spend more time at home? How many
mothers their sons, if this were the case!
and then again how one thoroughly enjoys
a chat of this kind instead of the common,
flimsy everyday talk so common among
many. Indeed as I glance back I recall
another theme equally good and beautiful
given to me that afternoon.
	How deeply I regret my inability to gather
in and scatter abroad again the rich treasures
I discern on every side in life’s pathway.
	Onward and upward the stairway of
knowledge, as I sit here alone at midnight’s
quiet hour, a sigh wells up from the heart
at the thought how slow the progress.
	In July 15th, of the EXPONENT
“Camelia” refers to the convenience of a
note-book a great many echo that feeling.
We cannot have  too many “Passing
Thoughts” they are charming, one good
sister says they alone are worth the one
dollar subscription fee, so full of good com-
mon sense are they.			IDA HAAG.
	Woodland Aug. 6th, 1893.


PERFECTION.

	CAN we arrive at perfection in this life,
is the question. Well our Savior said,
“Be ye perfect as your Father in Heaven is
perfect.” The word of the Lord through

[column 2]
his prophet Moses, said “be holy for I am
holy.’’
	The question arises, would He ask you
or I to do that which we could not do, you
know that in all the rules of Arithmetic
those who are perfectly acquainted with the
rules can solve the difficult problem alike,
and to the satisfaction of the teacher. Can-
not the rules or laws of life be accomplished
on the same principle? Believing this life
is a school, it is well to give strict heed to
our lessons that we may profit by them.
The holy Bible being our guide, not only
so, but the Book of Mormon also Doctrine
and Covenants. The Epistle of St. Peter
beautifully illustrates this lesson: as we
read in 20th, chapter 1st, Epistle “Where-
fore lay aside all malice and guile, and evil
speaking, as new born babes desire the
sincere milk of the word that ye may grow
thereby.’’
	Now I would ask, do not we feel greatly
blessed when we can realize that we are
growing in a knowledge of the truth in
Christ Jesus, and can see the designs and
purposes of God our Father concerning the
human family, to fit and qualify them to
come again into His presence, where we
must give an account how we have spent
our talents and our time.
	Also the 22nd, verse of 1st chapter same
Epistle. How encouragingly he speaks to
those who have begun the good work: he
says ‘‘seeing ye have purified your souls in
obeying the truth through the Spirit unto
unfeigned love for the brethren, see that
ye love one another with a pure heart
fervently,’’ (5th chapter, 5th verse) he says
also, “Likewise ye younger submit your-
selves unto the elder, yea, all be subject one
to the other, and be clothed with humility:
for God resisteth the proud and giveth
grace to the humble. Humble yourselves
under the mighty hand of God that He
may exalt you in due time.”
	Pardon me when I say, it annoys me to
hear our people say they are proud of this
or that. I feel to ask when did they get
this privilege of being proud of anything,
since the ancients always are cautioning
their people to beware of pride as some-
thing dangerous.
	Please read 10th, chapter of St. Luke
where Jesus sent out the Seventy to preach
the gospel, and in 17th verse they return
telling of their success, saying “Lord even
the devils are subject to us through thy
name.” After he makes a few remarks,
he says 20th, verse “Rejoice not that the
devils are subject to you; but rather re-
joice because your names are written in
heaven.”
	Jesus himself gained the victory and they
had no reason to be proud of this success.
Yet I think in these one would hear of some
who would think they had a right to be
proud of such success. Let such be care-
ful lest their feet slip as Lucifer designs
they shall.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith also said in
Doctrine and Covenants, “Beware of pride
for it bringeth a snare upon your souls:”
Are we careful as we should be to be safe
from this snare? This is the question I
often ask myself, for human nature is
weak at best, and only when living to and 
measuring ourselves by the golden rule are
we perfectly safe. It is when I compare
the Latterday Saints with those of former
days that my fears are aroused upon this
subject.
				ZION'S CONVERT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, - - OCTOBER 1, 1893


NEW ZEALAND LEADS.
	NEW ZEALAND has shown great political
liberality in giving women equal suffrage
and has set an example worthy of imitation
by all other countries. It is a triumph for
the cause of equal rights and will doubtless
be accentuated by public celebrations in
many other lands demonstrating their ap-
proval of the New Parliament. Slowly
but surely the shackles are falling, rusty
from long usage these time worn chains of
bondage fall off gradually as the new and
brighter civilization advances and the
larger humanity takes preceedence of old
theories and superstitions, and so the world
moves on to its greater needs, and a new
element is infused by woman’s help into
the governments of the world.
	For three years past the New Zealand
House of Representative has passed
bills giving women the privilege of voting
equal with men,but this year the bill to en-
franchise women passed both the lower
and upper House, and has received the
formal assent of the Governor.
	This victory is even a greater one than
the enfranchisement of the women of
Wyoming, because New Zealand has
sovereign powers and is in itself in a certain
sense an embryo nation. New Zealand
will be the first to vote for a real Parliament,
although the fact must not be lost sight of
that women on the Isle of Man have
Parliamentary suffrage, nor must it be for-
gotten that the municipal suffrage is en-
joyed by unmarried women and widows in
England, Scotland and some Canadian
provinces.
	The EXPONENT in behalf of the women
of Utah offers its most sincere and fervent
congratulations to these fortunate women,
who have been endowed with equal rights
and privileges, and may the day speed
quickly on, when the women of Great
Britain and the United States of America
may be able to celebrate on their own ac-
count a similar victory.


A PLEASANT JOURNEY AND VISIT.
	By invitation of Mrs Mary A. Hyde
President of the Relief Society in Sanpete
Stake we attended the Conference of that
Society held at Ephraim on the 22nd of
September Mrs. E. S. Taylor General
President of Young Ladies’ Associations
having also been invited to attend the Y.
L. M. I. A. Conference held at the same
place on the 23rd, we journeyed together
over the R. G. W. R. R. and had a most de-


lightful time. It being the season of
of charming colors and the sunshine flood-
ing the hills with that peculiar beauty of
the blue and crimson glow known to the
Wasatch range, the autumnal tints shone
out vividly and the mountain scenery was
picturesque beyond description. At
Ephraim we received a hearty welcome,
and the feeling of calm content that perva-
ded this locality, was a decided change from
the bustle of the city and the constant echo-
ing of hard times. A bountiful harvest has
been the reward of toil and thrift, and the
people are happy in the possession of peace-
ful homes in these mountain vales and are
not panting for the filthy lucre that
brings so much care and anxiety and very
often strife.
	The sisters in the Relief Society and in
the Y. L. M. I. A. are doing a good work
in an even unassuming way, but as we ex-
pect the secretary to send us a synopsis of
the minutes of the Conference, we will
speak of the pleasant reunion party,and the
Fair, which were a part of the program in
connection with the visit.
	On Friday and Saturday in one of the
large halls of the new schoolhouse where
the Conference was held, the Y. L. had
arranged an exhibit; and it made a very
creditable showing; there were many
articles of fancy work and painting that
were well executed. The botanical speci-
mens were particularly good and well-
arranged and would have been suitable for
the World’s Fair. We have not time to
enumerate the variety or speak of their
merits, only in a general way to say the
young women deserve praise for the sensible
effort, and though the entrance fee was very
small they made some money for present
needs, and it was certainly a commendable
enterprise.
	The dinner and entertainment or reunion
took place Friday evening after the close
of the Conference, in the hall where the
meeting had been held. The dinner was
delicious and handsomely served, and
some of the young ladies played the organ
during dinner time, which added to the
enjoyment. Afterwards there was singing
and recitations and a manuscript paper
“The Literary Fly’’ was read by the
editor. We were most hospitably enter-
tained by Brother Willardson, President
Canute Peterson, Bishop Dorius and the
household of these good brethren, and we
thoroughly enjoyed the visit, the meetings,
the conversation, the meeting with old
friends and new, and noting the happiness
and prosperity and progress of the people
who live more within their own means and
are comparatively free from difficulties and
embarrassments.


IN MEMORIAM.
MERCY R. THOMPSON.
	SISTER MERCY R. THOMPSON who de-
parted this life September 15th, 1893 at the
great age of eighty six years and three
months was a veteran mother in Israel, and
a woman of particularly strong and heroic
character. She was also sympathetic and
benevolent in her nature, and possessed of
many gracious womanly qualities which
gave her a well-balanced mind and a tender
heart. She had a rather remarkable life,
passed through many scenes of trial and
made great sacrifices, yet was always firm
in the advocacy of correct principles, and
maintained the utmost integrity to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints
which she embraced in the early days of
the Church.
	Sister Thompson had patiently shared in
the persecutions and drivings of the Saints
from place to place since the Church was
first established in Kirtland, Ohio, whither
she had journeyed from Canada, where she
had received the true Gospel. Sister
Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson (the
deceased sister whose demise we now re-
cord) was born in Preston England on the
15th, of June. This young woman
emigrated to Canada with her younger
brother Joseph Fielding in 1832, where she
resided at Toronto when Elder Parley P.
Pratt came there on a mission in 1836 at
which time she and her brother were
baptized and the following Spring moved to
Kirtland, where her sister Mary who ac-
companied also had come over to Canada in
1834. In Kirtland soon after their arrival
Sister Mercy R. Fielding was married to
Elder Robert B. Thompson a man of
literary attainments, who subsequently be-
came private secretary to the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Her sister Mary was
afterwards married in Kirtland, to Elder
Hyrum Smith in December 1837.
	The Fieldings were of a good old
English family; the brother Rev. James
Fielding of Preston, England, was a 
religious reformer of some ministerial im
portance, and had sufficient influence to
establish and become the head of a Congre-
gational Methodist Church in which he
sought to revive the spiritual power of the
original Wesleyan movement. Sister Thomp-
son was of a distinctively religious type of'
character, and was ready to make almost
any sacrifice to assist the Church in works
of charity and benevolence, or enterprises
of a like nature; has always made liberal
donations to such purposes as building
Temples and emigrating the poor. It has
been stated that she had contributed more
means to the Salt Lake Temple than any
other sister in the Church; she was a mem-
ber of the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, and has ever
since been associated in, and energetic in
the work and labors of this benevolent and
important institution; she held the position
of Treasurer in the Relief Society of the
Sixteenth Ward in this City where she
resided, and was faithful and efficient in the 
performance of the duties of her office to
the time of her death, (some twenty-one
years) though for a number of years she
had not been able to attend meetings. The
past eight years on account of the infirmities
of age, she had been obliged to remain
seated in an invalid chair, and be carried
from room to room and place to place when
circumstances required. Her patience and-
resignation in her sufferings, and to her
condition, and the will of God, were quite
remarkable, and her testimony to the truth
on all occasions was strong and persuasive;
her conversation was full of light and intel-
ligence, which made it ever a pleasure to 
be in her society.
	Sister Thompson had received all the
endowments and blessings in Nauvoo, under 
the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and his co-laborers in the ministry,
that the Saints have been privileged to en-
joy, and lived to be present at the dedication
of the Salt Lake Temple which she had
strongly desired; and which she greatly
appreciated.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


She officiated in the Temple at Nauvoo,
during the fall of 1845 or winter of 1846.
	She came to Utah in Elder Parley P.
Pratt’s company, arriving in Salt Lake
Valley in September 1847—she was one of
the pioneers in the Church in all its move-
ments.
	Her husband, Robert Blaskel Thompson
died in Nauvoo on the 17th, of Aug. 1841.
	She made a visit to Canada starting Nov.
15th, 1871, to see her old friends and the
relatives of her husband and to gather
geneological records, returning to this city
March 16th, 1872, and the same year she
accompanied President George A. Smith
and his Palestine party, as far as England
where she remained, visiting her numerous
relatives and friends, gathering records and
bearing her testimony to them of the truths
of the gospel, and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith, until June 1873, when she
returned home.
	This beloved and respected sister and
veteran mother passed away at last in peace,
and her death was doubtless a triumphant
entrance behind the vail, where she would
meet her husband, and the Prophet arid
Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum, her Sister
Mary and her brothers who had gone before,
and an innumerable company of departed
Saints, with many of whom she had
labored in the Latter-day work in this
dispensation.
	Sister Thompson leaves one daughter
Sister Mary Jane Thompson, who is great-
ly bereaved through her mother’s loss, for
they were inseparable companions in life;
and a grandson the namesake of his noble
grandfather Robert B. Thompson, besides
hosts of relatives and friends who esteemed
her for her many virtues and as a venerable
mother in Israel. Her name will be held
in honorable remembrance by the Latter-
day Saints throughout all time, and may
our Heavenly Father comfort her daughter
and may she follow in the footsteps of her
illustrious mother and attain to the same
excellence and be worthy the same exalta-
tion.
	“Those who have battled for truth with their
	mind and might,
	With their garments clean and their armor
	bright.”


RETURNING HOME.

Editor Woman's Exponent.
	I WISH to say through the columns of
the EXPONENT that my health is so far im-
proved that I expect to start home in a few
days to resume my labors in the St. Joseph
Stake of Arizona where I shall use my
influence in the interest of the EXPONENT
Deseret News and Young Ladies Journal
which I think should be the duty of every
officer in the Church organizations of women;
in our various reports from our stake we
should not omit to say that President
Layton has rendered that aid that was
necessary to enable us to make our visit by
giving us a pass on the stage line of which
he is proprietor and also attending the Con-
ference of the Associations and giving that
encouragement that tends to the growth
and development of the Stake over which
he is called to preside.
						W. EAST.


FAREWELL PARTY.

	“WE the members of Center Ward Relief
Society, meet to pay our respects to Sister


Mary E. Cluff our President as she is going
to Arizona to live, we unitedly come to
thank her for her kindness in letting us
meet in her comfortable house and to thank
our Heavenly Father for the good spirit we
enjoyed when together, which will be long
remembered by us all, as a token of love
we all present you with a Book of Mormon
from willing minds, that within this kind
circle your heart may rejoice for blessings
are for you from every voice.”
	A pleasing repast was spread and with
suitable conversation partaken of by the
hostess and her friends.
	We subscribe our names as follows,
		ELLEN HUNDLEY, 
		ANN RICHARDSON, Counselors.
		ANN C. HARVEY, Secretary.
		MILLIA HARVEY,
		ALBERTINA PETERSON,
		CATHARINE MILLER.
		MARIA PRIESTLEY,
		MARY BLAKE,
		SISTER LOYD.

					ANN HARVEY, Sec.


“AN event in connection with the Parlia-
ment of Religions, was a reception given to
the delegates by the Board of Lady
Managers in the Woman’s Building. Mrs.
Palmer presided, and she invited the dele-
gates to explain the status of women in
their own lands and in what degree this
might be due to religion and in what to
other conditions, meanwhile suggesting, in
the course of her felicitous remarks, that
Christianity afforded the best conditions for
women. Among the speakers was P. C.
Mozoomdar, the most liberal of Hindus.
He said they were studying the problem of
woman’s education in India. Khersedji
Laugran, of Bombay, followed with an
eloquent speech in favor of the complete
emancipation of women, declaring his
belief in their absolute equality. Professor
Tcheraz, of the Armenian Church, also
declared himself in favor of the emancipa-
tion of women.”


[column 1]
R. S. AND P. A REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened
in the Assembly Hall, Friday Sep. 22nd,
1893, President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened with singing, “O
Jesus the Giver ’ etc. Prayer was offered
by Catherine Smith, singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion,” etc. Roll called
and responded to as follows, twenty-three
branches represented by Presidents, nine by
Counselors, one by Secretary; six, by
Teachers, making  in all thirty-nine
branches, leaving nine without representa-
tion. The minutes of previous Conference
were then read and accepted. Also Statisti-
cal, Financial and Treasurer’s Report.
President Horne said it had been voted up-
on that we omit reading the reports from
each branch, as it took up so much time
congratulated the sisters on sending in so
many reports, as it enabled us to have so
complete a total. Regretted there was not
a better attendance at the conference. As
this was head-quarters for this stake of
Zion, we should set a good example. All
officers should be present to represent their
respective branches. As verbal reports
were given from county wards at the last
Conference, would have reports from city

[Column 2]
wards. 1st ward, Prest. Steel; 2nd, Prest.
Bassett; 3rd, Coun. Smith; 4th, Prest.
Pierce; 5th, Coun. Buchanan; 6th, Prest.
West; 7th, Prest. Lambert; 9th, Prest.
Mair; 10th, Prest. Paul; 11th, Prest.
Mc Master; 12th, Prest. Druce; 13th, Coun.
Spencer; 14th, Prest. Wilcox; 15th, Coun.
Price; 16th, Prest. Reid; 18th, Sec. Wright;
19th, Coun. Rawlins; 22nd, Prest. Whipple.
Each ward was favorably reported.
Prest. Horne expressed herself as being
pleased with the reports given, spoke upon
the present stringency. Gave good advice
to those present in regard to keeping out of
debt and patronizing home industries,
especially the Woman’s Store. Said presi-
dents of the Relief Society should use their
influence in sustaining this and all other
institutions of the Latter-day Saints, thatwe may be able to build up Zion. Spoke of
the importance of storing up grain against
a time of want, and dwelt at some length
upon the various duties devolving upon
us. Sang, “Doxology,’’ benediction by
Elizabeth Pixton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened by sing-
ing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet.” Prayer by M. W. Wilcox,
singing “Redeemer of Israel” etc. Sister
Elizabeth Pixton spoke upon the subject of
duty. We should perform those duties
that came in our way and that our hearts
admonished us to do, and not wait to have
them pointed out to us, urged us to open
our hearts and hands to the poor, and to be
diligent in the performance of every duty.
	Mesdames Webb, Stevenson, Wilcox,
Clawson, Cutler, Gibson and Silcock, all
made interesting remarks, bearing their
testimony to the truth of the gospel and
dwelling principally upon the present
situation and of our duties to the poor,
spoke of their labors in the Temple and of
the beautiful spirit and influence that pre-
vailed there.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze urged upon us the
importance of keeping the “word of wis-
dom,” in taking care of our bodies that we
may be prepared for future usefulness, also
spoke of her work in the temple, and of
the necessity of working for our dead
friends.
	Sister Emma Woodruff gave a very in-
teresting description of her trip East with
the Presidency and choir; spoke of the
kind spirit in which they were received at
Independence, contrasted the present time
with the time when they were driven from
that place. President Horne followed with
instructive remarks dwelling principally
upon our duties to the poor and upon the
evils of fault-finding, and spoke of the
duties devolving upon us as wives and
mothers, and as Latter-day Saints.
Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing,” etc. Benediction by Emily
Stevenson.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Acting Sec.


SAN LUIS STAKE, COLORADO.  
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
San Luis Stake of Zion convened in the
Sanford meeting house Sep. 10th, 1893.
	President Cornelia Mortensen presiding,
conference opened with singing “The time
is nigh.” Prayer was offered by Brother
George W. Irvin and choir sang, “Lift up
your heads ye scattered Saints.”
	President C. Mortensen said we had met
this morning to have our Conference, prayed


[Column 1]
for the Spirit of God to be with us that we
may be fed with the bread of life. Was
much pleased to see so many present.
	Sister Sophia Holt gave a brief report
of Manassa ward, said but a small percent-
age of those enrolled attended, but those
who did come enjoyed their meetings and
the Spirit of God was with them.
	Sister Cary Jensen gave a favorable re-
port of Richfield Ward, showing their
desire to do all the good they could.
	Sister Sena Heiselt spoke encouragingly
to the sisters and bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Margaret Haskell, Stake President
of the Primary Association, made some
very interesting remarks concerning the
necessity of having our children taught
the way to life and salvation,and the duties
of mothers in this respect.
	Bishop John Dalton of Manassa said “In
meeting with the brethren and sisters in
this conference today I am reminded of the
stone referred to by Daniel the Prophet,
that should be cut out without hands and
roll over the whole earth it surely is being
done.”
	Counselor Jane Crowther spoke of the
great blessings the Relief Society is to
the poor and sick, said it is one of the
greatest worksin our midst.
	Sister Emily Dunn gave a very good re-
port of East Dale Branch.
	Statistical and Financial Report, of the
Stake was read by the Secretary.
	Sister Martha E. Smith spoke a short
time showing the necessity of prayer.
	Sister Jane Hostetter expressed her joy
at being gathered, with the Saints and refer-
ed to the great contrast between the dark-
ness that prevailed in the world and the
light of the Gospel.
	Sister Stover dwelt at length upon the
necessity of parents setting worthy ex-
amples before their children, and gaining
their confidence in order to have an influence
over them.
	Singing “Earth wtth her ten thousand
flowers.” Benediction by Brother Christen
Jensen.
	ALTERNOON MEETING.—Singing “My
God the spring of all my joys” etc. Prayer
by Brother Levi P. Helm. Singing “Be-
hold the mountain of the Lord" etc. Sac-
rament was administered.
	President Albert R. Smith said a good
spirit was in our midst, the Relief Society
is a great work in this church.” The Lord
has given his spirit to every soul that has
been born, and being inspired by him many
have been led to do good to their fellowmen.
This is the case with the sisters, they go
about ministering comfort and help to the
poor, sick and downcast. It is the duty of
husbands to sustain them with means to do
this and I think they do. The sisters have
many callings and much to learn, to know
how to raise their children in the ways of
God.”
	Sister M. A. R. White gave a good and
encouraging report of the Primary Associa-
tion of Sanford. She expressed her joy for
the faithfulness of the sisters in visiting the
primary meetings.
	Sister Hannah Christensen gave a good
report of the Primary Association of
Manassa and spoke of the necessity of being
dictated by the Spirit of God in performing
our duties in this church. The Church and
Stake officers of the Relief Society were
presented by the Secretary and unanimously
sustained.

[Column 2]
	Sister V. Helm spoke a short time and
bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.
	Counselor Magdaline Funk expressed
her joy at being present on this occasion
and partaking of the good spirit here
with us today. Spoke at length upon the
great responsibilities resting upon mothers
in raising their families in righteousness
and the duties of children to their parents,
urged every sister to have her name enrolled
in the Relief Society, and let nothing but
sickness prevent her from beings at meet-
ings.
	Stake President C. Mortensen represented
the Relief Society of Sanford in the absence
of the president and gave a very favorable
report of the sisters. She showed the
necessity of being very humble and said
we should have a prayer in our hearts
continually so we may be able to teach our
children to go forward in life. Whatever
influence is given the mother by the hus-
band is given the children by the mother.
Laying up wheat is a duty that should be
complied with as it has always been urged
by the leading sisters of the Relief Society.
	Counselor George W. Irvin of Sanford
made a few encouraging remarks to the
sisters of the Relief Society.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
Singing “Now let us rejoice” etc. Benedic-
tion by Brother T. A. Crowther.
	MARY F. Crowther. Sec.
	REORGANIZATION.
	Owing to the resignation of Sister
Martha E. Smith which occurred at our
conference last March our Stake officers
have been reorganized as follows,
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen was set apart
as president with Sister Magdaline Funk
as first and Sister Jane Crowther as second
counselor and Mary F. Crowther as
secretary.
	During the summer season we have
visited the different branches and found all
in a flourishing condition and enjoyed our
visit very much. M.F. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UNION PRIMARY.
Dear Sister Wells:
	THE Primary Association held its
Annual Meeting Sep 13th, 1893. Sisters
Ellen C. Clawson and her Counselor
Camilla Cobb of the Stake Presidency, also
Bishop Phillips and a number of the local
officers of the Ward, as well as parents of
the children were present.
	The program consisted as follows,
Meeting opened by singing “How sweet
how heavenly is the sight,” &c. Prayer
by Master Heber Burgon, singing “Little
children love the Savior,” the manuscript
paper was read by the Editor Miss Phebe
Greenwood entitled “Zion’s Hope.”
	Minutes of the last Annual Meeting read
and received also the report both being
unanimously received, song by Jessie
Dewey and Emily Smith entitled the
“Unknown Grave,” recitation by Alcy
Brady, “The Babes in the Woods.” Essay
by Annie Anderson on “Obedience.” An
Organ solo by Annie Jenson, recitation by
Marion S. Brady, the Articles of Faith
were repeated by the Association, Anthem
“Jerusalem my glorious home,” was very
finely sung by Misses Zina Ball treble, Annie
Walker alto, Lula Fern tenor and Master
Everet Griffiiths bass; the four parts being
very nicely blended together.
	Sister E. C. Clawson spoke encouragingly


to the children, upon improvement,
prayer, truthfulness and made some other
excellent remarks.
	Sister Cobb was delighted with the
children and for the sweet spirit that was
present, spoke on improvement, faith, and
gave words of encouragment both to of-
ficers and children.
	Bishop Phillips said “I am well pleased
with, the children of the Primary, know
the pleasure a mother feels when her
children take a part in the program like
these children have today do not want
any change in the officers of this Association
when I see what I have this morning” and
gave some fatherly counsel to old and
young, meeting adjourned 'till two p. m.
Singing “In the chambers of the Mountains”
&c. Benediction by Master Johnnie
Sharp. 
	Two p. m. meeting convened; singing,
“Nay speak no ill a kindly word,” prayer
by Bishop T. Phillips, singing an Anthem
composed by Brother C. Denney, recitation
by the little boys entitled, “The little
Tourist,” first chapter of Psalms repeated
by Minnie Burgon, recitation by Ruth and
Naomi Denney, entitled “What two little
twins can do,” song by Rachel and Helen
Smart "The Picnic Party," the Books of the
Bible were repeated.
	Many good and choice remarks were
made by Sisters’ Brady, Burgon, . Ball,
Smart, also Brothers Jones and Anderson
testified to the pleasure they had felt in the
days exercises. The same officers were
voted in and sustained for the coming year.
Meeting adjourned for one year. Benedic-
tion by Master Franklin Denney.
	M. A. Smart, Prest.
	M. A. BALL,
	EMMA BURGON, Counselors.
	RACHEL SMART, Sec.
	ANNIE ANDERSON, Ass't Sec.
	R. SMART, Treasurer.


SLAVERY.

	EVER since the edict, “Cursed be
Canaan a servant of servants shall he be to
his brethren” went forth from the lips of
the Patriarch to his erring son, slavery has
existed in some form and the earth has
groaned under the curse of it. The
Israelites made bond men and bond women
of the sons and daughters of Canaan, and
it almost seemed like retribution, that they
suffered nearly four hundred years the
horrors of such servitude, their taskmasters -
being the descendants of Ham the father of
Canaan.
	Slavery in our own loved country began
almost simultaneously with its discovery.
The brightness of the glory attached to the 
name of the great Columbus is dimmed by
the fact, that he sent five hundred of the
innocent and trusting natives of the Islands
to Spain and sold them as slaves. His
brother Bartholomew sent three hundred.
All of the early Spanish explorers were
guilty of the same awful crime. Likewise
were the French and English. Even on
the shores of New England Thomas Hunt
an officer under Captain John Smith kid-
napped several Indians and sold them into
perpetual slavery. In nearly all of the
Colonies the Indians were held as slaves for
many years after their first settlement.
	Negro slavery commenced in the Colonies
in 1619 when a Dutch Man of War sailed up
the James River in the month of August


[Column 1]
and landed  twenty negroes  on the soil  of
Virginia.   They were  given  in exchange
for food to relieve the  famishing crew.   I
will be interesting to  know  that  the first
cotton seed was planted two years later and
that tobacco was also grown at that time. 
	The institution once planted  was for a 
time of  rather slow  growth.   Only  a few 
cargoes of  negroes were imported for sever-
al years.   In 1624 there were only twenty-
eight slaves in the  colony of  Virginia,  and
in 1648 in a population of 15,000 only 300.
In 1671 they had increased to two thousand 
and in 1758 had reached to  the great num-
ber of  100,000, a little less than that of  the
whites.
	At first only the Dutch ships engaged in
the unholy traffic,  but  soon encouraged by
the English,  companies  were formed and 
ships   built  in   New   England carried 
on  the trade,  the king  himself  sharing in
the profits.
	The colony of  New York  was settled by
the  Dutch  in  1609, and  was called New
Netherlands.   It  is  not  known  precisely
when slavery was introduced  but probably
existed  from  nearly  the beginning  of its
settlement.   Under  their rule  there was 
only a mild form of domestic slavery.  The
blacks were fed and clothed equally as well
as the white  servants,  for the  benevolent
Hollander loved to see all around him hap-
py and comfortable.   It  is  recorded  that
"so light was his servitude that the negroes
sang and danced at Christmas and  Puikster
as  merrily as  though they  were  free."
During  the reign of Queen Elizabeth about
the year 1562 the English government gave
its royal  sanction to the slave trade.   The
Queen  at  first  objected,  but  Sir John 
Hawkins, a slave merchant, persuaded her
by his crafty eloquence, that it was better to
take  the negro from a  bad  country  to a 
good one, and from idolatry to Christianity.
	When the English took possesion  of the
New  Netherlands  in  1664, the  name was
changed to New York, the condition of the
slaves was altered and they  were subjected
to greater  hardships, because  of  the laws 
that were made expressly for them. 
	In the year 1637  the slave ship  Desire
landed a cargo of  negroes in  the colony of
Massachusetts, from that  time slavery con-
tinued and increased  'till 1780.   It  would
be  interesting  to follow  the rise   of this
institution  in  all of  the colonies but  time
will not  permit,  suffice  it  to  say  that  it
existed in them all nearly  from the time of
their first settlements  excepting Georgia 
which was  the  thirteenth and last colony,
and was founded by the British Government.
For  prudential reasons slavery was not per-
mitted until  seventeen  years had  elapsed,
when the long  struggle  against  it  ceased
and slavery was legalized in 1749.
	Among  the  first to  raise his  voice and 
wield the pen  in  favor  of  the  slave  and
against slavery was Samuel Sewall  at one
time Chief Justice of  the Superior Court of
Massachusetts.   He wrote  the first  article
against slavery in  the colony; it was a tract
published  in  1700.     The  Quakers also 
were in favor of abolishing  slavery at that
time, but dared not make their views public 
as they  were under a ban. 
	It is  computed that  300,000 slaves were
imported up to the  time of the Declaration
of  Independence, the whole slave popula-
tion was 501,102.   During the Revolution-
ary War the  negroes  both  bond  and  free
enlisted and helped  to fight the battles that 
resulted in American Independence.
	Rhode  Island, at  the  close of the  war

[Column 2]
presented  the  negro  soldiers  with  their
freedom  and  a  bounty  of fifty  dollars.
Virginia emancipated  her slaves who had
served in the war.   Several other states did
the same. 
	To Massachesetts belongs  the honor of
being the first state to abolish slavery. In 
1780 she formed a  state constitution under
which slavery soon died out. 
	The  last  Continental  Congress on July 
13th,  1787,  passed an act prohibiting slavery
north  east of  the Ohio River.
	The convention that  met in Philadelphia
May 25th, 1787, to  frame the  Constitution
of the United States, after a prolonged de-
bate, inserted the clauses protecting slavery
in the states.   It also  permitted the impor-
tation of slaves  till the year 1808.   Among
the delegates who  strongly  opposed  the
recognition  of slavery  in the  Constitution
were Mr. Madison of  Virginia,  Governor
Morris  of Pennsylvania,  Rufus    King of 
Massachusetts, Luther Martin of  Maryland.
George Washington and Thomas  Jefferson
both  owned  slaves,    but    true    to  their
principles were not  in  favor of  perpetuat-
ing  the  institution.  Washington  at  his
death emancipated  his slaves.   Jefferson's
facile pen  eloquently  pleaded for the free-
dom of  the black.   He wrote,  "The  hour
of emancipation is advancing  in the march
of time.    It will come.   It  is a practice in 
parts  of  Virginia   to   rear slaves  for the 
market.   How can  an honorable  mind,  a
patrot and  a lover  of his country  bear to 
see this ancient  Dominion,  rendered illus-
trious by the noble devotion of her sons in 
the  cause  of liberty,   converted  into  one
grand menagerie,   where  men  are  to  be
raised  for  the  market  like  oxen  for the
shambles.   Is this  better, is  it  not  worse
than the Slave Trade,  that trade which en-
listed the good and the  wise of every creed
and  every clime  to  abolish it?   Indeed, I 
tremble for my country  when I reflect that
God is just, that his justice cannot sleep for-
ever.     The  Almighty    has   no   attribute
which can take sides with us in such a con-
test.   YOU MUST ADOPT SOME PLAN OF
EMANCIPATION OR WORSE WILL FOLLOW."
Patrick Henry,  James Madison  and others
used their  tongues  and pens against  the
inhuman  practice,   but    public  opinion
favored it, and  the voice  of mercy did not
prevail at that time.
    	From   1785-   'til      1790   anti-slavery
agitation  increased,  until  most  of  the
Northern States passed laws  providing for
gradual emancipation.   The  last public 
act  of  the  venerable  Benjamin  Franklin
was to sign a memorial to Congress, urging
its attention to the doing away with slavery
in the states, this was Nov. 19th, 1790.
	In 1799 New  York  State  passed a  law
providing for  the  gradual extinction  of
slavery.   In that year an effort  was made
in Kentucky to accomplish  the same  end.
Henry Clay who was then in the beginning
of  his brilliant career  advocated the move-
ment, but it was a failure.   In the  North
slave labor was unprofitable but in the sunny
South where tobacco, rice  and cotton were
cultivated, the  African  was  at home, and
the labor suited to his nature.   Cotton was
only cultivated in small  quantities because
of  the difficulty  of  separating  the  seed
from the fibre.   In  1792  Eli  Whitney  of
Massachussetts went  to  Georgia  and
invented the cotton gin which made it easy
to take thecotton from the  seed, from that
time cotton growing received a wonderful
impetus.   No  cotton  had  been  exported

[Column 3]
from the United  States in 1792.   In 1793
one million five hundred  thousand pounds
were exported to Europe. 
	In the commencement  of the  session of
1806--7 President Jefferson  in his message
to Congress recommended the abolishing of
the  African slave trade, consequently such
a law was passed prohibiting the importation
of  slaves into the United States or the Ter-
ritory thereof, after Dec. 31st, 1807.
 	In 1820 Maine applied for  admission  to
the  Union.   The number  of states were
equally divided,  eleven  free  and eleven
slave states.   The South  were opposed  to
its admission not being willing that the free
states should have  control  in  the Senate. 
	After a long and  angry discussion it was
admitted.    In   the  same   year Missouri 
wanted  to  come in as  a slave Territory. 
This  was objected   to  by  the Northern
states, finally a measure  was adopted and
became a law called the Missouri  Compro-
mise which provided  that  no slaves be  al-
lowed  excepting   in   Missouri,   north  of
Lat.  36 30. 
	The Quakers still agitated  the subject of
slavery.   They had emancipated all of their
slaves  in   Maryland,    Pennsylvania  and
New Jersey.   At a single monthly meeting
in Pennsylvania eleven hundred slaves were
given their liberty.   Benjamin   Lundy, a 
Quaker who advocated  gradual  emancipa-
tion, established  in  1821  an  anti-slavery
paper;  and  published  it  successively in 
Philadelphia,  Baltimore  and Washington. 
In  Vermont another was  being  published,
edited  by William  Loyd   Garrison   who
afterward became the leader of the Abolition
Party,  and advocated  the  most  extreme
measures to carry out  his purposes.   Wen-
dell Phillips  was  an ardent follower  and
they   both urged  secession  before the 
South.   In 1842 their political war cry was
"No union  with slave holders,"  but  the
two  great  political  parties  who  held the
preponderance of votes  at  that  time,  the
Whigs and Democrats were not so extreme
in their views.
	In 1844 Texas applied for admission into 
the Union as a slave  state.   This was  op-
posed by the  Whigs and  favored  by  the
Democrats and was the great political issue
during the presidential election in that year
James K. Polk and  Henry  Clay being  the
candidates.     At  that    time   the  Prophet
Joseph Smith also  was  nominated  as  a
candidate by his people and  his "views of
the Powers and  the  Policy  of  the United
States Government"  contained  the follow-
ing,  "Were  I  President   of the United 
States, when the people petitioned to abolish
slavery, I would use all honorable means to
have their prayers granted and give liberty
to the  captive,  by  giving  the  southern
gentleman a reasonable  amount  for his
property,  that the whole  nation  might be
free indeed."    Had this humane  and  just
policy been carried  out  by  the  parties in
power, the lives that were  sacrificed in the 
war  of  the  rebellion  would  have  been
saved and not a tithe  of the  money spent.
The   Democrats  elected  their  candidate
James K  Polk, and  in  March  1845 Texas 
was admitted into the Union.   This  led  to
the war with Mexico which resulted in the
acquisition of a vast tract of  Mexican  Ter-
ritory  which was all free  soil;  Mexico hav-
ing freed her slaves twenty years before.
	David Welmot  of  Pennsylvania brought
a  bill before  Congress in  1846  prohibiting
slavery in all the  Territory  that  might be
secured through  the  treaty with  Mexico.
This measure  was  called  the  Welmot


Proviso. It did not become a law, but its
friends formed themselves into a new party
with Ex President Martin VanBuren as their
Presidential candidate in 1848. This was
the beginning of the Free Soil Party and
was composed of seceders from both Whigs
and Democrats and was the foundation of 
the future Republican party. The Demo-
crats nominated Lewis Cass the Whigs
General Zachary Taylor who was elected
by a large majority.
	On the 20th of Dec, 1849, California
asked to be admitted as a free state. This
caused a violent dispute in Congress and
the United States. The slave states oppos-
ing the measure. John C. Calhoun being
one of its most bitter opposers.   Henry 
Clay then in Congress, offered a bill in-
cluding six acts; first was the admission of 
California as a free state; second the for-
mation of new states out of the Territory
of Texas, to permit or exclude slavery as
the people should decide; third the
organization of the Territories of New 
Mexico and Utah without any conditions
in respect to slavery; fourth, the establish-
ment of the present boundary between 
Texas and New Mexico and the payment
to the former for the surrender of the latter,
the sum of ten millions of dollars; fifth, 
the enactment of a more vigorous law for
the recovery of fugitive slaves; sixth, the 
abolition of the slave trade in the District
of Columbia. This Omnibus Bill, as it 
was named, became a law and was called
the compromise of 1850.  This for a time
stilled the troubled waters of Politics. 
	A great influence was exerted in the
North by the anti-slavery literature that
was published at this time Mrs. Harriet
Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"
having by far the widest circulation and the
greatest influence.  It took the heart of
its readers by storm, arousing them to 
indignation, then melting them to sad-
ness by its vivid portrayal of slave life. 
It was translated into twenty different
languages. In 1854 Senator S. A. Douglass
of Illinois introduced the Kansas and 
Nebraska bill into the Senate, which pro-
vided that the constitution of these states
should allow the people to decide for them-
selves, whether the new states should be
free or slaveholding.     The bill became a
law, virtually repealing the compromise of
1820 which was made to settle the slavery
question for all time north of Lat. 36 30.
	This opened the way for a renewal of all 
the bitterness of sectional strife, both
parties rushing into the new states, as fast
as possible to secure a majority of voters,
a civil war ensued and Kansas was the bat-
tle ground.   The agitation spread to all
parts of the United States and in 1856 be-
came the issue upon which the people
divided.  Many Northern Democrats al-
though opposed to slavery, firmly believed
that the people of every Territory ought to 
have the right to decide for themselves,
whether they would have slave Territory or
not. On these issues James Buchanan was
elected, the Northern and Southern
Democrats being in a large majority. 
	Immediately after the inauguration came
the Dred Scott decision. Dred Scott, a
slave had removed with his master to
Illinois and afterwards in 1836 to Minnesota
where he married a negro woman who had
been bought by his master. They had
two children; then the whole family was
brought back to St. Louis and sold. Dred
sued for his freedom. In May 1856 the

[column 2]
case was appealed to the Supreme Court of
the United States, where after three years
delay, a decision was rendered against him;
Chief Justice Taney in speaking before the
court declared that “for more than a cen-
tury before the adoption of the Constitution
a negro whether bond or free had no rights
that a white man was bound to respect.”
This decision and declaration added fuel to
the flames of opposition to slavery in the
North.
	 In October 1859 John Brown an
abolitionist of the most extreme character,
who had removed from Connecticut and
settled in Kansas, made an attempt to incite
an insurrection among the slaves. With a 
party of twenty one men he made an attack
upon the United States Arsenal at Harper's
two days.  The National troops and the 
Militia of Virginia were called out to sup-
press the revolt.  Thirteen of Brown's men
were killed, two escaped and six with John 
Brown were captured, given over to the
authorities of Virginia where they were 
tried, condemned and hung.  All of these
events tended to make matters worse be-
tween the North and South.  The con-
troversy continued in Kansas but the free
soil party increased so fast that it was soon
certain that it would become a free state. 
	The time of holding the 19th,
Presidential election was at hand and in-
tense feeling was aroused in all parts of the 
Union. There were four candidates. The
Republican party nominated Abraham
Lincoln, and in their platform of principles
pledged themselves to “exterminate the
twin relics of barbarism, slavery and
polygamy.”
	The Democratic convention met at 
Charleston, South Carolina.  The delegates
were divided on the question of slavery and
after much debate the Southern delegates
finding that the Northern Democrats were
going to nominate Stephen A. Douglas the
advocate of popular sovereignty they with-
drew and later met and nominated John C.
Breckenridge for President. Mr. Lincoln
was elected. The South claimed that his
election justified them in seceding from the
Union, therefore on the 17th of Dec, 1860,
a convention assembled at Charleston and
after only three days debate a resolution
was passed to that effect. This act pre-
cipitated the war of the Rebellion and led
to the emancipation of nearly four millions
of slaves. 
	*See Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation
proclamation issued on the 22nd of Sept.
1863.   Ridpaths History of U. S. Appendix
G.
	Thus by blood and groans and tears of
anguish, was the Union preserved and the 
dark stain of negro slavery erased from
the face of our fair Republic. 
                                         ANN E. NEAL. 
March 6th, 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	THE Relief Society of Price has been called
upon to part, within the last four years, with four
of our beloved sisters who were faithful to all re-
quirements made of them  in living their
religion, they passed through the trials and
tribulations the saints have been called to pass
through from time to time, departed this life and
with the assurance of a glorious resurrection.
The last one was our beloved Sister Mary Bryner
who died Sep. 1st, 1893 of dropsy at her
daughter’s home, Sister Pauli e Pace of this
place. She left her home in Zurich Switzerland
for the Gospel’s sake, in company with her blind
husband and one child in the year 1856 and as a


mother in Israel has passed through many trying
ordeals; she has left to mourn her loss two sons
and three daughters, her second son is absent on
a mission at the present time to his native country
Switzerland; she also leaves twenty-one living
grandchildren and numerous friends as she was
beloved by all; she was cheerful and calm to the
last and died as she had lived a faithful Latter-
day Saint.
	SARAH G. COX, President.
Price, Sep. 21, 1893.


LADIES’ ATTENTION.
	THE unparallelled success that has at-
tended the use of the “Viavi” Home
treatment by all ladies who have tried it, is
sufficient proof to every unprejudiced mind
that it is one of the greatest discoveries of
the age; and an unqualified boon to suffer-
ing women. Ladies, if you would enjoy
perfect health yourselves and transmit a
healthy and robust vitality to your children,
investigate this remedy, and give it a trial.
You will not be disappointed in results.
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, a physician of
seventeen years practice in Salt Lake City,
endorses the treatment; and will in the
near future, lecture on its merits through-
out the territory. Correspond or make in-
quiry freely. Ladies only in attendance.
Utah Headquarters 176 State St. Room 16.
	MRS. M. C. HOWES, Gen’l. Manager.


R. K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R. K.THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Bnrial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.

MAGGIE C. SHIPP, M. D.
	Will commence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing about the
middle of October.
Office, 34 East 5th. South,
Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 22. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, AND NOVEMBER 1, 1893.
No. 7


CONTENTS:
	Equal Suffrage—A. L. Cox. Utah W. S. A.—
Nellie Little. U. W. P. Club—Gladys Wood-
mansee. Birthday Party—Mary J. West. Castle
Gate Emery Stake—T. L. Reese. Senorita de
Alcala—Minneapolis. Special Honor. St. John
—E. R. Berry. Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting—
Lydia D. Alder. R. S. Reports. The War of the
Rebellion. "Dausk Koindesamfund." Obitu-
aries.
	EDITORIAL.—General Conference. Relief
Society Conference. Lucy Stone. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY.—My Fortieth Year—Ruth M. Fox.
Maggie—S. R. E. My Daughter's Birthday—
Mary A. Freeze.


MY FORTIETH YEAR.
MY fortieth year I hail thee with pleasure,
	What gladness or sorrow thou holdest for me
I know not, no matter, I know thou hast treasure
	More precious than pearls from the depths of
 		the sea.
They tell me I am old—my noonday is waning
	I shall soon reach the summit—life will decay;
I joy in the knowledge for surely I’m gaining
	Each year takes me nearer the end of my way

The end! aye the end it comes up before me,
	As a gleam from a light-house beaming afar;
Cling to the raft it cries out I implore thee 
	For the one that holds fast there’s a glorious
		star.
Daily and hourly I toss on the billow  
 	Now hoping,then fearing lest I go adrift,
Surging and clinging forever I struggle,
	That at last I may win the beautiful gift.
 
Welcome thrice welcome then years of my future
	Bring to me what you will joy, sorrow or pain,
Enough that I know that my Father will nurture
	And cause that my sorrows shall not be in vain.
							R.M. Fox.


EQUAL SUFFRAGE.
	
[To the Utah W.'S. A. in Convention
assembled.]
DEAR LADIES:—
	ALTHOUGH we may not be personally ac-
quainted, yet “A fellow feeling makes us
wondrous kind,” and the lofty aims and
unity of purpose pervading the different
Suffrage Associations constitute a bond of
union between the members irrespective of
surrounding conditions.
	While it is quite probable that the present
financial crisis and consequent scarcity of
money will cause a marked decrease in the
membership roll, yet the faith in the gospel
of Equal Rights still exists, and will only
need the impetus of a special emergency
to call it into active vigorous life.
	At least  that is the status of the Manti
branch which I have the honor to represent
in the absence of a verbal report.
	Although we have an enrolled member-
ship of about two hundred, yet the num-
ber of active workers is comparatively
small consisting principally of widows
whose legal experience in the administra-
tion of their deceased husband’s estates has
opened their eyes to the unjust discrimina-
tion of laws which women have no voice in
making, as well as the manifest unfairness
of taxation without representation.
	The Suffrage Association has developed
much latent talent among the members.
We have debates, lectures on topics of
general, interest, biographical sketches of
noted men and women of ancient and
modern times, also discussions on the
silver question, Home Rule in Ireland, and
in fact almost everything of mutual interest
except partisan issues which would have a
tendency to breed discord in our association,
as some of our ladies are very pronounced
adherents of the two great political parties,
so by mutual consent we have left these
questions out of our discussions and de-
bates, and as a consequence we have en-
joyed the utmost harmony and good feeling
in our meetings.
	We have adopted Mrs. Shattuck’s
Manual of Parliamentary Law as our
standard and quite a number of copies of
the work are owned by the members.
Gentlemen frequently ask me questions in
relation to the politics of the Suffrage As-
sociation, and I invariably reply that we
are neither Republicans or Democrats as an 
organization, but that we are for Equal
Suffrage first, last and all the time and that
so long as our legal recognition ends with
the payment of our taxes and the penalties
of broken laws we do not choose to declare
our allegiance to any political party, but
when our vested rights are restored to us,
that our votes will always be counted on
the side of good  government and popular
liberty without license.
	While there is a good deal of Suffrage
Sentiment ‘‘lying around loose” in the local
organizations throughout the County, with
one or two exceptions they have languished
for the want of a presiding officer, who has
the courage of her convictions to brave the

[Column 2]
ridicule and opposition which is still to be
met to some extent, but in a much less de-
gree than formerly, and who also combine
with this quality energy, perseverance, and
the capacity to do an unlimited amount of
hard work, as a special qualification.
	It is true that the way has been long and
weary and its ending almost out of sight,
but the dawn is slowly but surely breaking,
and the mists of prejudice and error are
being rolled back by a master hand, because
it is manifestly among the purposes of the
Creator that his daughters shall be equally
free with his sons.
	It requires no prophetic eye to see that
the victors laurel will in the near future
crown the grey hairs of the veteran leaders
of the cause who have borne the burden of
scorn and opposition which was the only
reward of the early suffragists; and now
that their earthly pilgrimage is nearly
finished Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B.
Anthony, Lucy Stone and other pioneer
workers are receiving the honor and
recognition to which they are justly entitled;
and a host of younger women are following
in their footsteps. This year of grace has
been a revelation of the powers and pos-
sibilities of women.
	The Columbian Exposition has developed
phenomenal traits of character requiring
tact, skill and executive ability. We find
woman occupying the front rank in
education, oratory, art and medicine. We
also find her laboring zealously as a reform-
er but under existing conditions she is al-
ways handicapped by her lack of the ballot
to enforce her righteous demands. In
proof of this when a petition signed by
eighty thousand citizens of Chicago, was
presented to Mayor Harrison asking him to
prohibit the sale of intoxicants in the Fair
Grounds he was very particular to inquire
how many of the petitioners were voters.
Municipal Suffrage in several cities gives
women greater power to combat existing
evils than ever before; and that their power
in this direction is understood and appreci-
ated is abundantly manifested by the
resolutions adopted last summer by the
Brewers Convention in Chicago, and recent-
ly by the Michigan Liquor Dealers Associa-
tion in Milwaukee to the effect, that they
were now and always unutterably opposed
to woman’s suffrage, that it would strike
a death blow to their interests, etc.
	Our respectable opponents would do
well to investigate, and see what company
they keep in their attitude of hostility to
the suffrage cause. The enfranchised,
virtuous womanhood of our land will be a
constant menace to the evil doer, and when
the more moral half of the population can
express its condemnation of legalized vice
at the ballot box the millennium will be
very near. The gains for the cause dur-
ing the past year have been unprecedented.
Women have demonstrated their capabilities
as political speakers by holding vast
audiences spell bound by their matchless
eloquence,while dealing with themes which
were formerly considered to be far beyond
the range of their comprehension. But the
world moves and the struggle in Colorado


and Kansas for constitutional amendments
to enfranchise the women of those states,
will be watched with interest by all friends
of Equal Rights, for a victory for them will
have more than local significance, the
cause is surely marching onward to success
in spite of indifference and opposition.
	In conclusion I wonld say, that although
circumstances prevent me from meeting
with you on this occasion, yet I am with
you heart and soul for the good work, and
have never for a moment lost faith in the
result. We have many difficulties to meet
and obstacles to overcome which you do
not have and foremost among them is the
lack of funds. The membership fee has in
many instances been literally the widow’s
mite only obtained by self-denial and the
sacrifice of personal comfort, while many
who have abundant means also “have all
the rights they want.’’ We cannot afford
to stop now with the goal almost in sight
but eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,
and we who have accepted the new gospel
of Equal Rights, must labor with untiring
zeal for the redemption of the masses.
Indifference is a far greater foe to the cause
than opposition, but both will melt away
like snow before a summer sun in the
dawning light of the twentieth century.
	Yours for Equality before the Law.
Oct. 3, 1893.	A. L. Cox,
President Sanpete Co. W. S. A.


MAGGIE.
THERE is no flock however watched and tended
	But one dead lamb is there,
There is no fireside how so’e’er defended
	But has one vacant chair.”

Gone from our household to realms of gladness
	Gone to that beautiful shore
Leaving our hearts bowed down in their sadness,
	Because we see thee no more.

Lovely companion, dear gentle sister,
	Father has freed her from pain;
We who are left O, sadly we miss her,
	Yearn for her presence again.

Her sojourn was brief, her mission is finished
	In a land far brighter than this,
With those gone before her joy’s undimished,
	Her cup’s o’er flowing with bliss. 

Departed from earth and all of its bitter,
	Where mind finds constant expansion,
A brief span was all needed to fit her
	To grace God’s high, holy mansion. 

Yet there is left the light of her presence,
	To illumine life’s darkest nights,
Her memory arising as incense
	Imparting ecstatic delights.

As the perfume of roses still lingers,
	As echoes of musical strains,
Like the touch of soft loving fingers,
	Maggie’s sweet presence remains.	S. R..E.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


UTAH W. S. A.
	AT an executive session of the Territorial
W. S. A. of Utah held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall Oct. 5, 1893, the following
officers were placed in nomination and
elected.
	Emmeline B. Wells, President, Emily S.
Richards, 1st Vice President, Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, 2nd Vice President, Caroline
E. Dye, 3rd Vice President, Nellie Little,
Rec. Secretary, Augusta W. Grant, Cor.
Secretary,Ruth M. Fox, Treasurer. Phoebe
Y. Beatie, Chairman executive committee,
Elizabeth McCune, Margaret A. Caine, Ro-
mania B. Pratt, M. Hughes Cannon, Emma
Empey members.
	May Wells, Chairman Pub. Com. Lula
Greene Richards and Annette Culmer
members. Eliza A. Bennion and Susie W.
Bennion, Auditing committee.
	The reports of the secretary and treasurer
were read and accepted. Salt Lake, Weber
and Box Elder Counties were represented
by their delegates, respectively, President
Nellie C. Taylor, Salt Lake, Elizabeth R.
Stanford, Weber, and Alvira Reese, Box
Elder.
	The Semi Annual Convention of the
Territorial W. S. A. was held at the same
place at 2 p. m. Prayer by Mrs. Adeline
H.Barber, Logan. Singing from the Suffrage
Song Book. The officers elected at the morn-
ing session were sustained by the Convention.
Telegram from the World’s Fair Grounds.
“Accept greeting equal suffrage is rapidly
gaining ground and the right will prevail.
signed Emily S. Richards Electa Bullock”
On motion of Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball was made honorary president
of the Utah W. S. A. for-life.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball the retiring
President made some remarks concerning
suffrage work in the Territory, manifesting
her deep interest in a matter of such vital
importance to all women.
	Hon, Charles W. Penrose in an able


address made many strong points in favor
of woman suffrage.
	This was followed by a well written
paper on the same subject by Mrs. Julia P.
M. Farnsworth. Mrs. E. B. Wells read an
article written for the convention by Mrs.
A. L. Cox, President of W. S. A. for
Sanpete County and made some remarks
concerning the National organization, and
the condition of women in general and
especially Utah women.
	Meeting adjourned to the call of the
President.
	NELLIE LITTLE, Rec. Sec.


U. W.  P. CLUB.
	THIS interesting organization met as per
ajournment, at the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Office, September 30th, 1893, Mrs. E. B.
Wells in the chair. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox. Minutes of the August
meeting were read and the roll call was re-
sponded to by a goodly number of mem-
bers.
	The programe consisted of selections
from favorite male authors.
	Miss Patterson gave a selection from
Matthew Arnold. Mrs. R. M. FOX,
Byron’s “Farewell to His Wife.”
	Mary Freeze “Life’s Lesson.” from the
pen of our local poet O. F. Whitney.
	Mrs. Bassett sang in her usually pleasing
manner, the ballad, “In Sunny Spain.”
	"The Rainy Day,’’ from Longfellow was
read by Miss G. Woodmansee followed by
Mrs. Lydia Alder who chose “What is
Life,” from Whitney’s Works.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp chose “Morituri
Salutamus” from Longfellow an address to
his class mates, stating its being a poem
which had greatly influenced her life.
	Whittier’s “Question of Life,” was given
by Dr. R. B. Pratt. Mrs. E. W. Hyde, a
selection from O. F. Whitney, entitled
"Truth.” This part of the program was
completed by the reading of “Byron’s
Dream,” by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	Mrs. Bassett then favored the club with
another musical selection which was much
enjoyed.
	The program for October to consist of
papers and verbal descriptions of the
mystical rites of Halloween, and the
Annual election of officers for the ensuing
year, to be elected by ballot.
	Refreshments were served interspersed
with the usual pleasant chat, and at a
reasonable hour the club ajourned.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
Editor Exponent:
	ON the afternoon of Sept. 19th 1893, a
party composed of relatives and friends,
met at the beautiful residence of Mrs.
Charles L. Flake in Snowflake, Arizona, to
pay honor to the natal day of dear Grand-
ma Hunt.
	She was born in Lexicon Co, Kentucky
Sept. 19th 1805, making her 88 years of
age.
	We found her hale and hearty filled to
overflowing with the spirit of the gospel;
she gave us such a hearty welcome that we
said in our hearts ’tis good to honor the
aged.
	After dinner the party repaired to the
parlor where she related to us many inci-
dents that had transpired in her eventful


life, while traveling with the Battalion and
in the early days of Utah. She possesses
a wonderful memory, is full of faith, in all
her life she has taken no medicine, when-
ever sickness overtakes her, she follows the
law given in the ‘‘Book of Covenants,’’ her
life and age are a proof to us, that blessed
are those who believe and rely upon the
Lord.
	She testified to us that she knew that
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young were
women of God, they had blessed her and
their promises had been verified. She re-
joices that in all her life her substance has
not been witheld but has been freely given
or a portion of it for the establishing of our
Father’s kingdom; she has spent a number
of years, in California visiting her three
daughters there.
	She has left her testimony with many
there who would perhaps not have heard
the sound of the gospel only through her.
	The music rendered by Mrs. Nellie
C. Hunt was most beautiful. Some
lines composed for the occasion by her
granddaughter Mrs. Annie Hunt Kertchner
were read and brought tears to grandma’s
eyes.
	As we gazed at the tall erect form of her
who had lived so long, we were led to con-
clude that all of the severe trials of mor-
tal life have failed to make her bow to
them, neither have they caused the brain to
weaken, she hath proven herself stronger
than all.	MARY J. WEST.


CASTLE GATE EMERY STAKE. 
Editor Exponent:
	THE Bishopric of Castle Gate Ward
organized the Relief Society on Sunday
Sept. 24, 1893, there were present of the
Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
Sisters A. U. Larsen and Ann Pulsipher.
The following sisters were set apart to act
as officers.
	Sebelia Evans, Prest. Jane Cox and
Elizabeth Young, Counselors, Lucy Reese,
Sec. Annie Kimber, Treas.
	Remarks were made by Sisters Larsen
and Pulsipher showing the duties of officers
and detailing their work, so that by follow-
ing out the instruction given all would go
hand in hand to do good and build up the
Kingdom of God.
	The Primary Association was also or-
ganized on the same day, there were present
of the Stake Presidency of the Primary
Association, Sisters Mary A. Washburn and
M. Howard, the following sisters were set
apart to fill the necessary offices.
	Annie Kimber, Prest. M. R. Cox and
Catharine Goold, Counselors, Elizabeth
Young, Sec. H. I. Cox, Treas.
	Remarks were made by Sisters Wash-
burn, Howard, Pulsipher and Larsen, en-
couraging all to attend, and see that the
children were sent regularly to Primary
that their young minds could be improved
with the principles of the Gospel.
	The remarks of the Sisters in general
were full of good instruction timely and
edifying. Bishop Lamph concluded the
meeting by invoking the blessing of God to
be upon the organizations and upon the
officers.
	T. L. REESE, Clerk Pro. Tem.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE is a reality in New
Zealand, “for women both of European and
Maori race. ”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY DAUGHTER'S BIRTHDAY.

SAY, where is my little baby
	Of twenty years ago!
My beautiful, brown-eyed darling
	All dimples from top to toe,
Many long years, I’ve nursed her
	And others have filled her place, 
But, still on my memory graven
	Is that lovely, baby face.
Her smile was like an angel’s, 
	Thrilling my soul with love,
While the halo sweet encircling her,
	Was pure, from her home above,
Her little feet so merrily
	Would dance to tune and time,
While we all gazed in rapture
	On our baby so sublime.
Her eyes! what pen could describe them?
	So lustrous, so bright and clear,
’Twas heaven to look within them
	And her cooing voice to hear.
Ah, dear to our hearts was our cherub,
	She seemed like an angel guest,
Who had wandered from realms of glory
	So we felt divinely blest.
But this little winsome creature
	Slipped out of my arms, away;
From infant to merry childhood,
Developing day by day, 
Then up to charming woman-hood
With its witching, mystic spell,
’Till now, she’s a wife, this baby 
That I fondled and loved so well.
	MARY A. FREEZE.


SENORITA de ALCALA.

	AT our state University a new chair
has been created this year it is that of 
Spanish and Italian Languages. The first
person to fill this office is Senorita de
Alcala (with the accent on the last syllable)
a woman with a most remarkable and varied
career. The present craze for studying
Spanish is the result of the Pan-American
congress and reciprocity movement. This
new Pro-ance sat as a student in nearly the
same spot where she now holds forth to
large and earnest classes composed of Post
graduates largely and many college profes-
sors. There is a belief, that the senorita is
of noble Spanish lineage, but it is not cer-
tain what her father’s rank was. Senor
Louis de Alcala was her father, a general
under Don Carlos, her mother Mariede
Molina born in Granada. The child was
born in Madrid and much of her childhood
was spent in Granada and Arvela. The
mother died when the child was seven
years old, shortly afterward little Caddino
began her wanderings under the protection
of her guardian. Alphonzo displaced Don
Carlos and for fourteen years the family
were in exile. The father fell in the
war and the daughter came to America
with her guardian, but in New York the
guardian died and Senorita was placed in a
convent, after studying there for a short time,
she went to Ohio, after a short stay she
came to Minnesota and entered the state
University, after some years of study she
returned to Europe and pursued her studies
in the University of Berlin and Bonn on
the Rhine and took public examinations
with the men, a thing no other Spanish
woman has ever done; she studied French
at Paris also Bellesletters teaching at
the same time many private pupils, she
became a finished classical student and mis-


tress of French, German, English and
Italian.
	It was at this time she was called to the
court of King Kalakua of Hawaiian Islands
to be the instructor of Princess Kaiulaui
the daughter of the King’s sister,she lived
in the palace and enjoyed for some time that
most delightful climate; after the death of
the princess’s mother Senorita Alcala went
to Central America and started a private
school in Guatemala. In personal appear-
ance she is rather petite her eyes are large
dark and eloquent, hair purplish black,com-
plexion olive. She speaks with a most
fascinating accent, she is cosmopolitan in
thought, she perfers to live in Venice of all
places, after that in Bonn on the Rhine.
	She thinks America the place for women
to live in who desire a higher education
and freedom of progress, she says that
English women are not superior to American
women on the contrary they are behind
them in general culture and emancipation,
she talks most entertainingly of the customs
for women in different countries and it
makes the listener glad and proud that she
lives in free America.
Minneapolis.


SPECIAL HONORS.
	MRS. FRACKLETON, President of the
National League of Mineral Painters, who
organized the Salt Lake City China Club
some ten years ago is receiving great honors
at the Exposition. She may well be con-
gratulated at the disposition made of her
pieces.
	The “Viking Brotherhood Cup” which
she modelled from native clays goes to
Norway, the property of Captain Anderson
of the Viking Ship. This is a most
unique and interesting piece and is like
those used by the old Vikings a thousand
years ago. It is tall and delicate in form
with a mouth suggesting the beak of a ves-
sel and the foot pinched at the back into the
form of a rudder. The handle is a coiled
snake, emblem of eternity. About the
top is a band incised in the old Norse runes
with the names of gods and heroes. Lower
runs the legend,
		“Slaves cannot drink from me,
			if once their lips receive my wine, 
		That moment they are free!
			They drink gods bounty,
			And their shackles fall!”
	On the obverse side are the dates of the
old Norse discoveries—893 and—1893!
	It was the old custom before commencing
any great undertaking to have a banquet
and pass the cup front lip to lip, like a
sacramental cup then in consecration to
break it.
	The cup was used by Captain Anderson
and his crew at the great Norse banquet
and will return with him a treasured
souvenir of his warm welcome to Norway.
	The great wine bowl which Mrs. Frackleton
made for the Caravel is already on its way
to Spain and will be placed in the
National Military Museum at Madrid in
company with the old Columbian relics.
	It is an immense bowl with great bunches
of grapes and garlands of vine and is sup-
ported upon a standard with three feet.
On it is inscribed the names of the three
vessels of the little fleet. The Nina, Pinta
and Santa Maria also the dates 1492 and
1893.
	One piece remains in America and has
been purchased by the Pennsylvania


Museum of fine arts for their magnificant
collection these pieces are all of the New
Frackleton Salt Glaze which has created
such a furore and has been heartily en-
dorsed by the ‘‘Associated Artists” of New
York City.
	The beautiful Punch bowl known as the
“Tiffany bowl” has been purchased by a
Russian noble for $500.00 and goes to St.
Petersburgh Russia.
	It is delightful to experience a feeling of
reciprocity and we hail the dawn of that
era in art when American women decorate
for the nobility of Europe—after the many
years that Europeans have decorated their
wares for America.


ST. JOHN.
	IN reading our interesting little paper the
EXPONENT we often see the reports from
other places but seldom anything from St.
John’s, Arizona and as our Relief Society
was reorganized on the 4th of March, we
thought it proper to report the same.
Sister Lucinda Richey was our esteemed
president for. thirteen years but being in
poor health and advanced in years felt it
too great a responsibility and therefore
tendered her resignation. She was loved
for her kind and loving manner and
motherly counsel. Her life has been one of
usefulness having raised a large family
living mostly on the frontier, and passing
through many trials incident to such a
life. The following were chosen officers
Anna D. Kempe President, Claudina Jen-
sen and Elizabeth N. Gibbons, Counselors
R. E. Berry Secretary, Christina Johnson
Asst. Sec. Hannah Jensen Treasurer,
Anna L. Anderson Ass’t. Our meetings
are held regularly and fairly well attended.
We hold meetings every other Thursday
our testimony meetings on fast days. We
have fifty four members own real estate
worth $2,740. also $109.60 in property and
$350 cash.
	The people here are feeling much en-
couraged this year as we have been blessed
with rains and the gardens and young
orchards look thrifty as does also the fields
where crops were planted. Some did not
plant as we have suffered greatly from
drouth and grasshoppers the past three
years but we have neither to complain of
this year.	E. R. BERRY, Sec.


“THERE is something appalling in the
revelations of the census; the condition of
the marriage relation alone would preclude
happiness. Think of from forty to fifty
thousand immoral women in New York
patronized by five times that number of
men; think of 328,716 divorces in twenty
years! The hundreds of thousands of
homes ruined by drink, with 82,392 crimi-
nals in prison, and an annual production of
homicides amounting to 7, 386. Besides
73,045 paupers in almshouses and a million
tramps, vagabonds and pensioners of all
sorts scattered far and wide. One of the
most serious signs of decay is found in the
increase of insanity. Years ago it was
found that society was “dying at the top,”
and it was computed that one in 250 of the
population were insane, but now the num-
ber has been put at one in 127. New York
City today has one in 300 in her asylums,
and the city is full of persons of unsound
mind, rendering it probable that the esti-
mate of one in 127 in the country at large
is correct.”—Dr. De Costa.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  . - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, and NOV. 1, 1893.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.
	THE semi-annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints held in October, 1893, commencing
October 6th, and closing on Sunday
October 8th, was really a spiritual feast to
all those who attended and listened to the
magnificent discourses of the First
Presidency and Apostles, in which they set
forth the divine principles of the Gospel,
and urged upon the Saints to lay hold of the
same in the spirit thereof, and to seek by
purity of life and honesty of purpose to
keep and retain the spirit of God, which
would be a guide to their feet and a light
to their path continually.
	Much definite practical instruction was
also given suited to the present time and
circumstances of the people, particularly
upon home industries and manufactures,
and the education, the moral and spiritual
training of the youth of Zion; wise and
judicious counsel to all who have charge of
the young people, and in fact upon all sub-
jects that pertain to the duties of life here
or salvation hereafter.
	The weather was fine, and the people
were delighted to see in the stand day
after day the venerated President of the
Church, and to hear his voice strong and
distinct proclaiming the truths of the Gos-
pel, beseeching and exhorting the people to
serve God and keep his commandments.
Many of the Saints remarked that they had
never attended a better Conference, or one
where more of the Spirit of God was 
poured out upon the speakers.
	Some of the Apostles and also President 
George Q. Cannon referred particularly to
those countries where the Gospel had not
yet been preached, and the great work the
Elders of the Church as missionaries to
the nations of the earth yet have to per-
form. The music and the singing by the
choir were of the most elevating character
and with the inspirational teaching lifted
the soul upward with renewed determina-
tion to labor for the welfare of Zion, her
interests at home and abroad.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall Monday Oct. 9th, 1893,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding.
On the stand near her Counselor Bathsheba
W. Smith,also M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, E.B. Wells, R. B. Pratt, Minerva

[Column 2]
W. Snow and many Presidents of the
Relief Society of the several stakes of
Zion. Meeting opened with singing, “Come
let us anew,” &c. prayer was offered by
Dr. Elvira S. Barney, singing, “For the
strength of the hills we bless thee.”
	President Z. D. H. Young made opening
remarks welcoming all to the Conference
in an affectionate manner. The secretary
read the minutes and called the roll of
Presidents,nineteen Stakes were represented
viz. Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, Box Elder,
Morgan. Summit, Cache, Utah. Juab, San-
pete, Millard, Wayne, St. George, Emery,
Bear Lake, Malad, Star Valley, St. Joseph
and Mexico.
	Sister Young spoke forcibly upon the
care of the sick and needy which was the
first duty to be attended to; and exercise of
charity and love, which would make us
more like our Savior, who had abundant
charity, and went about doing good, we
should aim to attain perfection and put
away all evil thoughts and feelings, that
we may be prepared to perform labors for
the salvation of the living and the redemp-
tion of the dead, prayed that we might be
faithful to observe every law and com-
mandment and ever set an example worthy
of imitation.
	Sister Sarah Barton said Star Valley was
organized Nov. 30, 1892, and there were
seven branches, the settlements were all
new but the sisters were anxious to do all
in their power, the presiding sisters had
visited, Sister Dixon, the President was an
able and energetic woman.
	Sister Willmirth East, President St.
Joseph Stake returned thanks to her
Heavenly Father that she was able to be
present, had been very ill; she was not as
well posted now concerning the circum-
stances of the Relief Society; as she had
been in Salt Take since last April; but felt
determined to labor in the office and calling
to which she had been appointed, realized
it was the duty of the sisters to be at their
post, bore testimony to the truth of the
Gospel, and referred to President Young’s
teachings on the subject of home-industries,
and how much better off we would be to-
day had we heeded his counsel; thought too
much attention was paid to frivolity and
fashion and accomplishments, instead of
housekeeping and the everyday duties of
home; she knew marriage was in many
instances postponed because an elaborate
establishment could not be kept up;
deprecated the idea of too much luxury,and
thought we should economize and live
within our means.
	Sister Mary B. Eyring from Juarez,
Mexico, was thankful to be here to mingle
her voice with the congregation, glad to see
so many engaged in the good work, thought
the Relief Society branches in Mexico
would compare favorably with those in
Utah; they had not many calls for help,
very few were without means to help them-
selves, though there had been some sickness,
and the sisters then had given liberally of
time and help; there were only a few
Mexicans in the Church, there were some
who could talk Spanish, these were as clean
as white people, the sisters had made a few
quilts; when visiting round had found some
not very comfortable. “In these corners
where there are only a few congregated to-
gether, they are bright, quick and intel-
lectual anxious to do their duty; the Saints
had experienced miraculous instances of
the power of God; generally good health
until this last summer had malarial fever,

[Column 3]
there had not been as much suffering in set-
tling there as in many other places; always
have corn and beans, that is what the
country affords, we have good order in all 
our settlements; our Mexican neighbors
come into our colony and wonder, we have
good gardens and orchards and houses, the
authorities of Casas Grande say our people
have been very profitable; we are far ahead
of the Mexicans in prosperity and thrift,
our people import new wagons and farming
machinery;’’spoke of the Mexican ladies and
their servants and other interesting things.
	Sister Jane S. Coleman, President Wayne
Stake, thought we should not only be 
listeners in these meetings, but practice in
our lives the counsel given: the Wayne
Stake was organized the 27th and 28th, of
May 1893, there were now ten branches,
“at our last Conference our President Sister
Young said there would be more love, union
and charity among the sisters, and it cer-
tainly has been verified. Four of the
branches in our Stake have granaries, we
have had hard times out our way, only one
settlement where the grain ripened;” ex-
plained in regard to the grain that had been
stored, thought the President of the
society should always lead out in good
works.
	The President Mrs. Young hoped the
sisters would take cognizance of the advice
that had been given concerning the grain,
President Woodruff had said the last week
that he had no right to this wheat, unless he
gave security, she felt glad for those who
had granaries, and ashamed that there were
so few comparatively, urged the sisters to
take care of the needy, feed them and care for
them in other ways, let none suffer but try
and give them something to do, those who
are able to work, it is a much better way;
she knew how to take wool, tow and flax,
and work it up; encourage home work,
knit your own stockings and help to be
self-sustaining; made some suggestions
about putting lime among the wheat to pre-
serve it from insects.
	Sister Julia Lindsey, Bear Lake Stake re-
ported all the branches in good condition
spiritually, and faithful in temporal labors,
it was a hard country, very cold in winter;
and the settlements extended so far it was
not possible to accomplish much in winter,
was glad to come to these conferences and
get instructed in her duties; bore a good
testimony felt thankful she was one with
the Saints.
	Bishop H. B. Clawson gave notice of a
lecture on Music and Morals to be given in
the Assembly Hall that evening by the
Rev. A. Howiss of London who was on a
visit to America, had just been to San
Francisco and on his way back from the coast
would like to deliver a lecture in our city.
Sister Martha G. Young who had just
visited in Emery County gave a few items
from there, as there was no representative
present from that Stake.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. sing-
ing “Praise God from whom all blessings
flow,” &c, benediction Dr. R. B. Pratt.


LUCY STONE.

    THE death of Lucy Stone, Editor in chief
of  the Woman's Journal,  Boston, on the
18th, of October 1893, removes from active
service in  the  cause  of  woman's  enfran-
chisement  and  advancement one   of   the
most  remarkable veteran  women  of  the
nineteenth century. This grand and


noble woman whose loss is so great, but
whose life was so brimming over full of
good works, was born in West Brookfield
Mass. August 13, 1818. She had lived
three quarters of a century and over, and
had seen many wonderful changes in the
cause she loved so well and had served so
faithfully, and zealously; but the climax to
which she looked forward with fond and
hopeful anticipation, had not yet been at-
tained, though its dawn is already lighting
the hill tops with the rainbow of hope, and
the faith that lays hold upon the future
was strong in the breast of one of its most
eloquent and powerful champions, Lucy
Stone; and the news from the far-off
island of the sea (New Zealand) of the
victory of equal suffrage won there, came
like glad tidings to cheer and brighten her
hopes ere her departure to the higher life
beyond. She leaves a husband and
daughter to carry on the work for which
she laid so magnificent a foundation, and
many hundreds of earnest adherents to the
cause she so vigorously espoused, converted
by her magnetic eloquence, who will seek
to emulate her earnestness of purpose, and
to fulfill her ardent longings and expecta-
tions. Hereafter we will give a sketch of
this heroine of the nineteenth century whose
memory will be forever green in the hearts
of true patriots and lovers of liberty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society Conference minutes
will be concluded in the next number of the
paper, and the story ‘‘IN Rural England’’
continued. We have much matter laid
over, the minutes of several Conferences in
different places, organizations and re-
organizations of branches of the Relief
Society and meetings in different localities,
all these will be given as soon as con-
venient.
	OUR readers will be delighted to know
that Utah has taken three medals for her
silk exhibit, and it is ardently hoped by the
patrons of home industries here that this
success will give an impetus to sericulture,
and that another season will show some
good results in this direction in all parts of
the country where there are mulberry
orchards, and that the people will not be
slow in planting out mulberry trees, and
trying to make this industry remunerative.
	THE Chicago tragedy resulting in the
death of Mayor Harrison has cast a gloom
not only over the closing of the Fair, but
the whole city; all anticipated festivities are
postponed temporarily if not permanently.
After the wonderful brilliant pageantries of
the world that have been enjoyed by the
people during the Exposition, that all
should close with a pageantry of sorrow and
woe seems almost unaccountable, but such
things prove how uncertain are all the
calculations made by men; that there is a
spirit of destruction abroad in the world
seems a foregone conclusion.
	Zious Home Monthly edited by Henry
W. Naisbitt after some months delay, makes
its appearance again in a new dress with
very creditable outside cover, illustrative of
its aims and contents No. 1 volume 2 was
issued October 1, 1893, and contains much
excellent reading matter suited to the times
and circumstances. The special article of
the issue is “Woman’s Education in a New
Light,” from the pen of one of the ablest
writers and educators of his time Horace

[Column 2]
Mann. A number of fine poems help to
make the magazine more desirable, and cer-
tainly home literature should be sustained,
as well as home industries and other home
manufactures. Success to the enterprise.
	OUR readers will be pleased to know that
one of our most esteemed poets and faith-
ful contributors Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron
has had an addition to her family: a
beautiful little grand-daughter, born to her
daughter Zina E. wife of Sylvester Walker
of South Bountiful, Davis Co. on October
7, 1893, the first-grandchild, and of course
there is great rejoicing, in the family, and
the EXPONENT extends most sincere con-
gratulations to the parents,  and grand-
parents of the little one, who is we believe
to be named Caroline in honor of the moth-
er’s sister and it was also the name of the
great-grandmother Caroline Jackson of St.
George, who was so well known among our
people for her good works and labors of
love. 
	WEDNESDAY Oct. 4th, there was a very
interesting Art Exhibit at the studio of Miss
Kate Wells in the McCornick Building in
this City, by our home artists, Messrs
Clawson, Harwood, Culmer and Lenzi, also
Mesdames Harwood, Carson, Sloan, Camp-
bell and Miss Hartwell. The original
painting of the picture by J. W. Clawson
exhibited at the World’s Fair, “Santa
Maria della Salute,” Venice, was among
the collection at Miss Wells studio, the
picture is very fine and the people would be
well repaid in visiting the studio on such
rare occasions. Miss Wells expects to
have another art exhibit on Dec. 1st, at
which time she will be glad to see all lovers
of art come and view the collection, which
will be enjoyable and educational so far,
even if one cannot afford to buy. Other
artists are expected to be represented at that
time. Miss Wells is very painstaking in
her own line of work, coloring photos, and
takes delight in explaining the pictures ex-
hibited to visitors.


RELIEF SOCIETY.

	PRESIDENTS and Secretaries of the sev-
eral Stakes of Zion are requested hereafter
to send Statistical and Financial yearly re-
ports to Secretary Emmeline B. Wells,
EXPONENT Office, Salt Lake City,and brief
historical items relating to Relief Society
work, or workers should be sent to Sarah
M. Kimball recording Secretary, 74 S. 2nd,
West St. Salt Lake City. Further
particulars concerning these reports will be
given later.
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President.
		SARAH M. KIMBALL, Rec. Sec.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the  Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th,  Ward Assembly Rooms,
Sep. 9th, 1893.
    President M.  Isabella Horne presiding.
Singing, “O, my  Father, thou   that
dwellest,” prayer  by  Counselor  E.  J.
Stevenson.     After   singing   again  the
minutes  of the  previous  meeting  were
read and approved.
    No response to  President  Horne's call
for   minutes   from  any   of   the  Young
Ladies or Primary Associations.
    Sister E. S. Taylor President  V.  L.  M.

[Column 2]
I.  A. said she desired the  faith and prayers
of the sisters  to  enlighten  her   mind  and
rest on us all. “Often the speaker is more
blest than those who  hear.  A  few sisters
meet here,  semi-monthly,  but how small
the number!    If  they   were  anxious  to
speak  good  of God,  and  his kindness to
them, quite as anxious as to devote days to
recreation, there  would  be so many more
here.   But God's children  are  not  alike.
Some are more diligent,  some  are  more
earnest, some are more faithful than others.
When the time comes, and Christ comes to 
number up his jewels,  all the faithful ones
will be there.   The accounts of destruction,
misery and death that we read in the papers
are terrible!   Do we pause and think?  Did
not God say He would pour out his indig-
nation on the inhabitants of the  earth, for
they did not receive his gospel, neither his
prophets.   Let  us  here in  Zion,  look  to
ourselves, serve God and be  prayerful, ask
God for aid when we are cast down,  we can
go to Him and  He will send  the spirit  of
love and peace to us.   Then when we have
finished  our  work,  he   will  take  us  to
dwell with Him.” Sister Mary E. Kimball
and Sister E. A. Watmough  each  bore  a
faithful testimony to the truth  of the  Gos-
pel, and their desires to be ever  found true
to the same.
	Sister L. Greene Richards spoke of some
of the exercises she had  witnessed  at  the
Summer School held  at  Provo, also  of a
dream she had of  her  father, after  he had
gone from this life; thought we should study
and go to school  in the next life,  and  go
on  learning forever.
	A sister in the congregation spoke well,
and exhorted the sisters not to judge each
other.  Thought we should feel  for  each
other, both the rich and the  poor, and pre-
pare for the coming of the Savior said many
other good things.  Sister Mary Leach and
Bird each bore faithful testimonies.  Sister
M. V. Dougal, testified  that  the  spirit of
God was in the meeting, gave  many good
instructions, and exhorted the sisters to be
humble,   to   think  of the   Savior  who
descended below all things  that  he might
rise above all things, &c.
   Sister  C.   C.   R.   Wells,   spoke  very
encouragingly, regretted that she could not
attend these meetingsoftener; felt comforted
in the testimonies borne here today.   Said
she believed we would go  on  in study and
labor after we went from  here.  The spirit
will reveal the truth to us, “I feel  that we
should sustain each  other,  sustain home
industries and seek to build up the kingdom
temporally; as sisters we should branch out
in manufactures and not buy articles from a-
broad; spoke of the Woman's Co-op store,
urged the sisters to sustain it. Said their
milliner and  urged  the  sisters  to  patronize  the
Institution; said  many  more  instructive
things and asked God to  keep  us all faith-
ful.
	President Horne announced the Quarterly
Conference of  the Relief Society and desired
the sisters to attend.   Testified to the good
spirit here today;  spoke of the outlook  for
the crop next year, let  us  ask  God  not to
cut it off, but still bless us and sustain us in
our many needs.   Let us be faithful, never
cherish unkind thoughts to  each other,  be
slow to take offence and be  humble.  God
bless us and make us wise virgins, prepared
to meet Him when he comes.
	“Owing to  the  General  Semi-annual
Conference  in October  coming  on  our
regular   Meeting-day   also   our  Relief


Society Conference on our next meeting
day, this meeting will stand adjourned for
six weeks."  Sang Doxology.  Benediction
by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

		WASATCH STAKE.

	THE Semi-annual Conference of the
Relief Society of Wasatch Stake was held
in the Stake House at Heber on Thursday
September 28th, at 10-30 o’clock a. m.
and 2 o’clock p. m., President Emma
Brown presiding; Sister F. D. Richards al-
so being present. After opening exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes of the
last conference were read and accepted.
The statistical and financial report for the
six months ending August 31st, was also
read and accepted. Sister Brown made a
few opening remarks expressing pleasure
at being able to meet with the sisters in
Conference and to have the company of
Sister Richards with us.
	The various branches were reported as
being in a favorable condition, except one
which had lately been disorganized; many
good remarks were made by those sisters
who reported. Sister Richards occupied a
good portion of time both morning and
afternoon, during which time many
valuable instructions and much good coun-
sel was given. President Abram Hatch
said he had listened with pleasure to the
good counsel given, and the testimonies
borne to day; said the brethren should
come in and bless the sisters with their
presence said we have many happy homes
here and much to be thankful for; felt
to heartily thank all who had taken part in
making the conference interesting. Sister
Brown adjourned the conference and called
for a vote of thanks for Sister Richards,
and all who had taken part in the con-
ference, which was unanimously given.
Singing “Behold the Saviour comes.”
Benediction by President A. Hatch.
				HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.


SAN JUAN STAKE.

	MINUTES of the San Juan Stake Relief
Society Conference held in Monticello Aug.
21st, 1893. Stake President Martha Ham-
mond presiding. Choir sang “Redeemer
of Israel.” Prayer by Bishop F. I. Jones;
choir then sang “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest.”
	President Martha Hammond made
a few interesting remarks, stated that she
had enjoyed herself very much during
Conference. She regreted that there were
not more of the older sisters present, desired
to take a trip around the Stake and visit the
societies.
	Stake Counselor Mary N. Jones said by
becoming acquainted with the sisters and
attending meetings we receive the Spirit of
our calling and will be blessed. She had a
good feeling toward all of her sisters and
hoped they had toward her, felt to encourage
the sisters to attend Conference and other
meetings.
	President Kristen Nielsen of Bluff Ward
Norah Hammond of Mancos, Mary M.
Jones of Monticello each reported her
society as in a good lively condition, good
attendance and a feeling of peace and love
among the sisters.


President Hammond thought there ought
to be one representative from each ward.
Advised the sisters to work for the interest
of the Society and to store up grain. She
also spoke of the many ways in which the
sisters could put means in the treasury, but
not to keep it in the treasury if there were
any poor who needed it; counseled the
sisters to labor with the spirit of their call-
ing, she also advised the sisters to take the
Exponent.
	Stake President F. A. Hammond felt to
endorse all the reports, and all that had been
said would be well for us to remember, and
gather up all of the instructions given in
Conference and carry them out, encouraged
the sisters to store up grain and follow out the
counsels of Eliza R. Snow and Bathsheba
Smith. He also stated that those who fol-
lowed out the counsels of those placed over
them were wise; if we would do this we
should have something to eat and to give to
the poor emigrant. He spoke at some
length on economy and advised the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. to treasure up
all they could and make the best possible
use of it.
	Stake Counselor William Halls spoke a
short time, bore testimony to what had
been said and that our religion would not
do us much good if we did not make good
use of it.
	Stake Counselor P. D. Lyman, endorsed
the reports and the remarks that had been
made, said there were many organizations
among the sisters, and many among the
men and the men are interested in them and
they can both do a great deal of good in
helping each other. The wider women’s
field is and the more liberty they have the
more good they can do. If the women had
their rights the less blasphemy there would
be in the world.
	President Hammond stated that the
Conference would be adjourned for three
months. Choir sang, "Great is the Lord,"
benediction by Bishop Jense Nielsen.
				EMMA BAYLES Sec.


THE WAR OF THE REBELLION.

	As Buchanan’s term of office drew to-
wards its close, no less than four candidates
were nominated to succeed him. Of these
Abraham Lincoln, the candidate of the
Republicans, was successful although the
southern leaders had threatened that if he
should be elected, the states of the south
would secede, that is, would withdraw
from the union as they claimed the right to
do. When it became known that Lincoln,
the candidate of the party opposed to the
further extension of slavery, would be the
next President, the secession movement
began. Public meetings were held in
South Carolina; and, on the 20th, of Dec.
1860, an ordinance was passed by a state
convention, held in Charleston, which
formally declared that the Union now sub-
sisting between South Carolina and other
states is hereby dissolved. Six days after-
wards Major Anderson, of the national
army, commanding at Fort Moultrie, with-
drew the garrison of eighty men from that
fort, and removed to Fort Sumter. This
being regarded by the South Carolinians as
a hostile act, they at once seized the custom-
house at Charleston, as well as other
property belonging to the general govern-
ment, and commenced operations to drive
Anderson from his new position. Six other
states, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama,

[Column 2]
Georgia, Louisiana and Texas, following
the lead of South Carolina, passed secession
ordinances in the early part of 1861. In
February a congress of delegates from all
the states, except Texas, met at Mont-
gomery, and formed a government called
“The Confederate States of America.”
Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi was elected
by the Congress President of the Con-
federacy, and Texas being then represented,
was duly inaugurated.
	A steamer, sent from New York with
supplies and reinforcements for Fort Sum-
ter, arrived off Charleston, but being fired
upon by the batteries which had been
erected by the Confederates, was compelled
to put back. Thus you see South
Carolina commenced the war by firing at
the American flag, the frantic tumult
spread along every river and over every
mountain in the slave states from
Chesapeake bay to the Mexican frontier.
Forts, arsenals, navy-yards and other
property of the nation, were seized by state
authority of the Confederacy. General
Dix, Secretary of the National Treasury,
ordered two revenue cutters, stationed at
New Orleans, to be taken to New York,
but the captain of one of the cutters re-
fussing to obey, he sent a telegram to the
lieutenant, ordering the arrest of the captain
and closing with the command. “If any one
attempt to haul down the American flag,
shoot him on the spot.”
	The affairs of the country, when Lincoln
entered upon the office of President, March
4th, 1861, were in a sadly distracted con-
dition, “Menaces that the President-elect
would never be permitted to take the oath
of office had been freely and loudly made,”
consequently General Scott took every
precaution, and the inauguration took place
amid a greater display of military than had
ever before been witnessed on such occasions.
In his address, which was mild, the Presi-
dent declared with special emphasis, that he
had no purpose or inclination to interfere
with slavery where it already existed,
further declaring that he had “no lawful
right to do so.”
	This assurance, however, had no effect
whatever upon the Southern leaders, they
believing their duty to their states as more
binding upon them than their obligations to
the general government, so they continued
to prepare for war.
	A force of several thousand men was put
under the command of General Beauregard,
who was ordered to reduce Fort Sumter
and accordingly, the “roar of a snorter
quickly followed by the rushing shriek of a
shell, gave notice to the world that the era
of compromise and diplomacy was ended.”
(April 12th, 1861.) Soon all the guns of the
assailants were in operation, and in the
course of thirty four hours, more than
three thousand shot and shell struck the
works. The defense was feeble owing to
the smallness of the garrison and the scanty
supply of ammunition. In his report to
the secretary of war, Anderson said having
defended Fort Sumter until the quarters
were entirely burned, the main gates
destroyed by fire, the george-wall seriously
injured, the magazine surrounded by flame
and its door closed from the effects of the
heat, four barrels and three cartridges of
powder only being available and no pro-
visions but pork remaining, I accepted the
terms of evacuation offered by Beauregard,
and marched out of the fort on Sunday
afternoon, the 14th. inst.


On the following day Anderson sailed
with his command for New York.
	“The welcome event,” said a Southern
writer, “was instantly announced in every
part of Charleston by the ringing of bells,
the pealing of cannon, the shouts of couriers
dashing through the streets.” It was re-
garded as the greatest day in the history of
South Carolina. While exultation prevail-
ed at the South, the news that the national
flag had been fired upon and that Fort Sum-
ter had fallen, produced an intense feeling
of indignation at the North. Thousands of
men who had previously been in sympathy
with the South, now declared themselves
in favor of the Union. President Lincoln’s
call for seventy-five thousand troops met
with a hearty and favorable response from
all the free states.
	Political differences were forgotten in the
impulse to defend the national government.
	Two days after Lincoln’s call for troops,
Davis issued a proclamation inviting
privateers to prey upon the commerce of
the United States; this was followed by one
from Lincoln, declaring the ports of the
Confederate States to be in a state of
blockade.
	After the secession of Virginia, Rich-
mond became the capital of the Confederacy.
The Southern army, numbering a hundred
thousand men, occupied a line through the
state from Harper’s Ferry to Norfolk.
	Of this army, a large force, under
Beauregard, was at Manassas Junction, in 
front of which was the little stream of Bull
Run, in a narrow wooded valley. Orders
were given to General McDonald who com-
manded a large part of the Union army to
attack Beauregard. A desperate conflict
served in which more than forty thousand
men were engaged. The advantage at first
was upon the side of the Union Army, but
the confederates being largly reinforced at
last prevailed and the national troops,
exhausted and panic-stricken, fled in dis-
order towards Washington.
	This great disaster taught the people of
the North that the task they had under-
taken was greater than they opposed, but
they did not waver. It stimulated them to
greater exertions. Congress voted to raise
more money and meu.
	"Having chosen our course" said Lincoln
“without guile and with good purpose let us
now renew our trust in God, go forward
without fear and with manly hearts.”
	In the meantime, civil war raged in
Missouri, but the efforts of the successionist
to take the state out of the Union were
frustrated mainly through the prompt
action of General Lyon.
	Events showed that to complete the 
blockade, nearly six hundred rebels, most
of them steamers, would be required.
A number of privateers were fitted out by
the Confederates to roam the seas and prey
upon the Merchant ships of the North.
One of the most successful of these was the
Alabama, famous for its capture and de-
struction of American ships.
		SECOND YEAR OF THE WAR.
	The whole Union force in the field at the
beginning of 1862 reached the number of
five hundred thousand. The Confederate
was somewhat less.
	In Kentucky the Confederates were de-
feated at Mill Spring. A few days later
General Grant, with the aid of the gun-
boats captured Fort Donelson, Grant's
army; after the victory of Fort Donelson,
proceeded up to Tennessee river. The

[Column 2]
next day reinforcement, having arrived for
Grant, the Confederates commanded by
Beauregard, were in turn driven from their
position and compelled to retreat April 7th,
1862.
	The Union cause was also successful in
Louisiana a naval expedition commanded
by Captain Farragut. About thirty miles
above the mouth of the Mississippi river
were two forts, which were the main
defence of the city. For six days the fleet
poured an incessant fire upon the fort which
was answered to with vigor.
	At last Farragut resolved to run by them.
A dozen thunder storms never roared more
terrifically than did the peal of hostile can-
non, still the fleet kept on and passed the
fort, just then it was attacked  by more
than a dozen Confederate steamers. The
noise was awful. The guns in the fleets
and forts belching forth at once together
with the explosion of boilers and maga-
zines and the shrieks of scalded and
wounded men made an appaling noise, but
the victory was Farragut’s. The next
naval battle was between the Virginia and 
the Monitor. 
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“DAUSK KOINDESAMFUND.”

		(DANISH SOCIETY OF WOMEN.)

	IT is twenty years since ‘‘Dausk Koin-
desamfund” was founded. By glancing
over what has been done during these years,
let us judge if this society has vital power
enough to subsist and a right to do so.
	“The society was founded at my wife’s
working table,’’ Mr. Frederick Bayer has
said, and certainly it was he and his wife,
who together with Caroline Testman took
the initiative. That this epoch coincides
with the opening of our new literary era
was certainly no chance. Brandes'  trans-
lation of Stuart Mill’s, “The Subjection of
Women,’’ had just appeared and not only
aroused new thoughts in many minds, but
also kindled serious thoughts among the
earlier friends of the cause of women. The
turn matters took here, and the way in
which it was started, shows clearly the in-
fluence of two high-minded women, Ma-
thilda Fibiger and Pauline Worm.
	The first under the assumed name of
Clara Raphael, with the boldness of nine-
teen years, had discussed questions of every
kind as to the relation between men and
women, but had been pushed back so
severely by harsh and narrow-minded
criticism, that she had given up almost all
literary occupation. With true womanly
perseverance, she then gave all her
strength to practical concerns and became
our first woman telegrapher. Something
unusual and brilliant in her literary debut
had shown the public, that a “cause of
woman” existed. The intense zeal with
which she adapted herself to smaller tasks,
so deeply impressed some few women with
whom she afterwards came into contact,
that through them it influenced the work
here for the cause.
	“The worshipping of women,” she says,
“has continued in our country longer than
elsewhere. To be a fellow-citizen, a fellow-
worker, is no very attractive idea to her,
who has been told that she is the inspiring
principle in life.” Accordingly the first
thing a Danish society of women had to do
was to teach women to work to gain the

[Column 2]
inner independence, while struggling for
the outward one.
	Pauline Worm has in her excellent novel,
“De Fornuftige” (sensible people), shown
how a young woman, with higher aims
than her fellow sisters, sinks exhausted
with the struggle; the authoress herself
wore out her strength as a school mistress 
in a provincial town. She did not, how-
ever, neglect any occasion for showing the
injustice toward woman. The seed she had
sown by her energetic and untiring work,
was in due time reaped by women, who
continued her work and tried to make the
cause of women what she always desired it
to be: the cause of the whole nation.
	These two pioneers immediately enlisted
themselves as common workers in the so-
ciety, though Mathilda Fibiger died the
year after its formation.
	There was enough to do, and the direc-
tion missed no opportunity which was pre-
sented. It struggled for the forming of a
woman’s book-club reading-room (Koinde-
lig Loseforening,) and when later this idea
was realized by others, it supported this
institution, which had hard times at first.
Though pecuniary means were but small,
it gave help to some of our earliest women
students. For years it held a Sunday-
school for working women. But its special
aim was the founding of professional
schools for women and it could scarcely
have done anything more appropriate. By
the assistance of both private and public
means our first commercial school (Manager
C. Testman) was founded in 1872, and in
1875 Women’s Drawing School (Manager
Charlotte Klein.)
	Besides these educational aims, the
direction continually kept an eye on differ-
ent points of our legislation, where women
are wronged. By discussions with pro-
minent lawyers we had tried to rouse some
interest as to equalization of man and
woman in pecuniary matters, and by
petitions to Government and Parliament to
effect some ameliorations in this respect, as
well as more protection for wives against
ill-treatment by their hnsbands. As a re-
sult of these exertions may be named the
law of Mr. Bayer, May, 1880, which gave
married women the free disposal of their
own gains; it was supported by a petition
from the Women’s Society, signed by 2,700
women.
	In the meantime, the way was being
cleared for the spreading of its ideas in
wider circles. Hoctrup, Bjornson, Ibsen
had in different manners treated the woman
question, and made every reading person
in Scandinavia think about it and speak of
it; and a powerful political motion all over
the country had roused the scene of spirit-
ual, and especially social questions. Thus
the right epoch had come, and a lively
agitation for the cause began. The means
used were lectures, ppamplets, and from
1885, the monthly review: Koin den og
Samfundet (Woman and Society.) For
country colleges and debating societies,
lecturers were continually wanted and sent
from “Danish Society of Women.” Some
years about 100 lectures were given. Of
pamphlets, one especially, “The Woman
Cause,” by Astrid Stampe, was spread all
over the country in many thousand copies.
The effect of this agitation was soon seen,
and in a few years the number of members
was augmented from 128 to more than
1,000.
	Among the many various themes, which
have been treated verbally or by letter, we


may name especially: the legal position of
wives, woman’s right to gain her bread,
woman’s situation in public life, the legal
position of illegitimate children and their
mothers, the cause of maid servants, and
the moral question. Both by discussing
separately with the members of our Parlia-
ment and by sending petitions to Govern-
ment and Parliament we supported different
bills, of which two were made laws: First,
the proposition as to amelioration of the
position of illegitimate children and their
mothers, and second, inspection of the
treatment of foster children.
	It cannot be doubted that we have done
a considerable share in bringing about the
altered public opinion, which has in the
later years manifested itself. We have not,
however, any more than in other countries
succeeding in organizing the friends of the
cause to a compact unity. New societies
were formed, both in the capital and in the
provinces, some of which did not conform
with the society at Copenhagen, and in dis-
cussions occasioned by this, serious differ-
ences of opinion within the society itself
were manifested and partly checked its
working. So in 1887, a great common
meeting was summoned by some members,
who wanted to have annihilated that
paragraph of the laws, which started the
exigence of equalization. The direction
thought it right to give way to the majority
in order not to hurt practical work, which
was going on and considered more impor-
tant. Some months after, an extraordinary
meeting was held, which wanted the
direction to promise to stop the debating of 
the moral equalization of men and women
as something beyond the aims of the society. 
The direction, however, maintained that
free discussion of everything touching the
interests of women, the moral question too,
is a vital condition for the society. This
opinion was strongly supported by the
majority of the members. The second
proposition of the opposition was that the
society should chiefly work for practical
aims. With this the direction could per-
fectly well conform, this being in reality its
own point of view.
	By opening a bureau for the hiring of
maid servants we tried to make better the
situation  of maid servants, who often
suffered bad treatment at unauthorized hir-
ing offices; and such offices have, in con-
sequence of our exertions, been abolished.
By a bureau of engagement for other
women—such as governesses, housekeepers,
etc.—and by the opening of a bureau, which 
gives advice and explanations, practical and
legal, we have also tried to support women.
A fund has been founded in memory of
Mrs. Rovsing (one of the directors) with
the aim of giving professional training to 
young women. Besides, we have worked
with more or less success to open new
situations to women—farming, horticulture,
stenography, etc. A committee has made
plans for teaching cooking to girls in
common schools, and we now wait for the
resolution of the school authorities in this
matter. Another committee has under-
taken careful inquiries as to the economical
situation of working women of every kind
in Copenhagen. For the present we want
to form a professional school for seam-
stresses. By lectures about the human
body,by a book about "rational dress" and by
occasionally exhibiting models of dresses,
we have also worked for the development
of woman’s health and power to work.

[column 2]
	As to greater reforms in legislature, the
society considers woman’s acquirement of
municipal rights to be the most pressing.
A petition to Government and Parliament,
signed by more than 20,000 women all
over the country, has been sent in, and we
have tried by interpellations at elections, by
discussions in our monthly Review and by
public meetings to keep the interest awake
as to this and other reforms, because we
think that the time cannot be far off when
the place in society, which theoretically can-
not any more be denied to woman, will in
reality be given her.
	Women, however, form as yet a class of
proletaries in society, and it is a hard task
to carry on the cause of proletaries. But,
we must arm ourselves with patience among
other qualities. Twenty years are but a
small space of time in a society’s history of
development. Some traces “Danish Society
of Women’’ has left through these years,
and besides, work of this kind will have
more effect than can be directly estimated.
Our society exists and is one among the
working powers; and to the future we look
for the further development of its high
aims and lofty aspirations.
		The American Woman’s Jonrnal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	ONCE more the grim moster, death, has paid us
a visit and taken from our midst one of our loved
sisters.  Sister Elizabeth Carlile was called home
to rest after a severe attack of dropsy lasting
about three months, at the age of seventy-one
years and two months; deceased was born at
Mission, Nottinghamshire, England, November
22nd, 1822.  She emigrated with her family to
America in 1849 stopping at Council Bluffs, till
1852, when she with her family crossed the plains
and settled at Provo.  In the spring of 1859 they
moved to Provo Valley where her husband died
in the fall of that year, she being left a widow
with a family of five, experienced considerable
hardship in rearing her family.  She was a faith-
ful member of the Relief Society of Heber West
Ward also quite active as a teacher as long as
health permitted and seemed to take delight in
doing good and contributing of her means for
the support of the poor and needy, and the up-
building of the Kingdom of God upon the earth,
and has now gone to reap the reward promised
to the faithful, and mingle with loved ones gone
before. She was the mother of seven children
three of whom survive her, and her posterity
numbers seven children, thirty seven grand-
children and four great-grandchildren. Peace to
her soul.
	HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.
	CATHRINE FOREMAN Prest.


BRADLeY—At Moroni, Sanpete Co. Utah, March
17th, 1893 of paralysis, after an illness of twelve
hours, Sister Betsy Bradley wife of Ex. Bishop
George W. Bradley, late of this place, born July
4th, 1811, in Clarence, Erie Co. N. Y.
	She died as she had lived, a faithful Saint, her
connection with the Church dates from 1844, n
which year she was baptized, and joined the
fortunes, and trials, of the Saints of those days,
passing through the trying scenes of Nauvoo,
the exodus, and toilsome journey across the
plains, arriving in Salt Lake City in 1848 in the
fall of that year; she was among the pioneers of
Sanpete Co. who were called to settle at Manti,
passing through all the vicissitudes of the of the early
settlement of that place.
	She with her husband was called to help settle
Nephi, where she resided until the spring of 1854,
when Brother Bradley was called as leader in set-
tling Moroni, of which place he was made Bishop
which office he held, until July 1877. During all
of those years Sister Bradley spent a busy, active
life, being first Treasurer, then teacher in the
Relief Society.
	She was the mother of fourteen children, a host
of grand children, and seven great, great grand
children, she leaves many dear friends to mourn 
her loss. Dear sister rest in peace.
Jane BAILeY, President. 
A. M. Hardy, Sec,


Editor Exponent.
	IT becomes our painful duty to chronicle the
death of another of our beloved sisters. Sister
Bergetta M. Anderson, wife of Peter Anderson
who departed this life August 1st, 1893.
Sister Anderson was born March 6th, 1818, in
Wielle Socken, Denmark, was baptized May 20,
1853 and emigrated to Utah the same year: she
was the mother of four children three of whom
awaited her on the other shore. 
She was a teacher in the Relief Society, kind
to the sick and afflicted, charitable to the poor,
and a true and faithful friend to all.,
She was an earnest worker in the Relief Society
as long as she was able. She leaves a husband,
one son, and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
She died as she had lived a true Saint in the hope
of a glorious resurrection.
	JANE BAILEY.President.
	ANN M. HARDY, Sec.
Moroni, Sanpete Co. Utah.


MRS. LOVINA FILLMORE, who died at
her home in Clarence, Erie County, N. Y.
Sept. 3, was born on Aug. 13, 1787, at a
time when the Federal convention in
Philadelphia was drawing up the constitu-
tion of the United States. She was two
years old when George Washington was
installed as the first president; and had
witnessed the history of the country every
since. Her husband, Rev. Glezen Fill-
more, was a famous pioneer Methodist
preacher. They were married in 1809,
three years before the second war with
England, and he died in 1875; thus for
sixty-six years she served in the arduous
duties of a Methodist itinerant’s wife. She
was a thrifty housekeeper and manager of
the farm and a woman of vigorous mind,
who rejoiced in her 106 years.—Ex.


R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
	Cash House

R. K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
POISE WAISTS, ETC.

Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, BS SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.

MAGGIE C. SHIPP, M. D.
Will commence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing about the
middle of October.
	Office, 34 East 5th South, 
	Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 22.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1893.			No 8.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Salt Lake Co.
W.S. A.—Maggie Bassett. U. W. P. Club—
Gladys Woodmansee. Gems Selected—E. H.
Lyon. Reorganization—Annie B. Despain. Wo-
man’s Foreign Affairs—Mrs Nellie Grace. Utah
County W. S. A. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meet-
ing—L. D. Alder. R. S. Reports. Mesa Items
S. M. Pomeroy. Vanity—Zion’s Convert. The
War of the Rebellion. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL.—A Tribute to Lucy Stone.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY.—Lucy Stone. Thanksgiving Hymn
—Will Carleton. Autumn—Hyacinth. Some-
time We’ll Meet Again—E. L. G. The Trials of
Columbus—L. S. Dickinson.


LUCY STONE.

BY REV. LOUISE S. BAKER.

HER saintly face, flower-like, turned ever toward 
	the Light,
Seeking that radiance divine which could be 
	lent again
To teach those of less steady look the vision
	bright;—
Tracing a pathway on life’s flowing moor or
 	marshy fen. 
That kindly face has met the Day with eye un-
	blenched
Its quivering light with rosy fingers beckond
	her at last,
E'en on the earth. Athwart her heart with fires
	unquenched
It lay—and, smiling, with the hope of action
	new, she passed.
 Nantucket, Oct, 22,1893.
— Woman's Journal.


THANKSGIVING HYMN.

We thank Thee, O Father, for all that is bright—
The gleam of the day and the stars of the night;
The flowers of our youth and the fruits of our
	prime,
And blessings that march down the pathway of
	time.
We thank Thee, O Father, for all that is drear—
The sob of the tempest, the flow of the tear;
For never in blindness, and never in vain,
Thy mercy permitted a sorrow or pain.
We thank Thee, O Father, for song and for feast,
The harvest that glowed, and the wealth that in-
	creased;
For never a blessing encompassed earth’s child,
But Thou in Thy mercy looked downward and
	smiled.
We thank Thee, O Father of all, for the power
Of aiding each other in life’s darkest hour,
The generous heart, and the bountiful hand,
And all the soul help that sad souls understand.
We thank Thee, O Father, for days yet to be--
For hopes that our future will call us to Thee;
That all our eternity form, through Thy love,
One Thanksgiving day in the mansions above.
						WILL CARLETON.


AUTUMN.

How beautiful the passing days,
	That quickly hurry by;
Whose life breathes out unclouded rays,
	Then gloriously they die.


The ash and stately poplar trees,
	Seem filled with yellow light
That nodded in the summer breeze,
	So dark and dense a sight.
The sun comes sparkling on his way,'
	Unmindful of his charm
The grass is rustling, Stiff and gray,
	To steps that tread nor harm.
Unsheltered flowers hang their heads,
	O'er bent and blackened stems,
That humbly droop towards their beds,
	'Fore sunshine that condemns.
In sympathy the sun imparts,
	A warm and healing breath,
To bind their little broken hearts,
	Which only hastens deaths
The ivy trails the old rail fence,
	Enlivened here and there
With red and yellow leaves from whence
	Shine purple berries rare.
The bright-eyed squirrel seeks his store,
	Of nuts that fallen lie;
Then speeds away the branches o’er,
	As if by winds blown by. 
The beauty of the leaves is brief,
	And by some magic spell,
When morning sparkles white, each leaf
	Seems earthward to have fell
Flowers fall with the germ of life.
	Unaided and forlorn,
To rise again like human lives,
	In spring-times’ early morn.
O death, life's most relentless foe,
	Withold thy cuel breath;
Nor bring earth's fairest ones to woe,
	Slay not, O bitter death. 
HYACINTH
Nov. 3, 1893.

[Column 2]
much to say of what would be likely to
transpire and the extravagance and style
which would be kept up, but as no one of
the party was interested in his views, he
grew silent and inclined to be morose
somewhat, and was not an agreeable com-
panion.
	On board the vessel were two or three
ministers, dissenters as they were designated
in those days, and Dr. Bland entered into
conversation with them on the first day out
and thoroughly investigated their religious
faith. They with some of their followers
were fleeing from the persecution heaped
upon them in their own native land, and
preferred hardships and privation in the
wilderness to the scorn ridicule and op-
probium of those among whom their lot
was cast in their own country.  Still they
talked much of the home they were leaving,
and the green fields so dear to every
English heart village-born, but above all
was the desire to exercise the freedom of 
conscience and religious views—for this
they sacrificed home, friends and the graves,
of their ancestors, not knowing what fate
had in store for them in an unknown
country.
	The ladies were too sea-sick after being a
few hours out of the sight of land to enjoy 
anything, and young Walton, who had lit-
tle courage at any time was quite as help-
less as his wife, so that what had seemed a
pleasant undertaking on the first day, was a
miserable failure before many hours had
passed.  Dr. Bland and one or two of the 
servants managed to take care of the rest of
the party, and the Doctor kept up his
interest in the Puritans on board, though
he could scarcely hold with the extreme
views entertained by them, being a man of
very broad mind and liberal education.
	One young and ardent disciple of the
faith Barrington by name became greatly
attached to the Doctor and his party and
was ever after a friend to the two families.
He sought by his persuasive eloquence and 
kindlinessto help Lord Walton morally and
to uplift him from the despondency which
had fallen upon him after leaving the shores
of England, and partly perhaps in conse-
quence of sea sickness, and the peculiar
combination of circumstances, that had
brought about his consent to take this
journey.  His influence was good upon
Maitland though not permanent.  In fact
so devoted was young Barrington that his
friend sometimes distrusted his motives
and fancied he was in love with his wife.
He had explained to her the need of re-
ligion and every day after she was
convalescent read passages from the Bible
commenting upon them, and she listened
dreamily to it all, as though she was half
distrustful it was not real but another de-
ception.
	Finally without any serious happenings
the company landed on the New England
coast, and having arranged beforehand
with British residents, were warmly
welcomed and soon comfortably established
in dwellings previously fitted up befitting
their station in life  All was strange and 
there were none with whom they had ever


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				XXXV.
	OUR readers may think that when
England is left behind  the title should no
longer be England, but it will appear in the
future that the green fields of the mother
country bear strongly upon the lives of the
subjects of the story.
	The little party consisting of Lord and
Lady Walton their son Edward and five
servants, Dr. Bland and wife, son and two
servants thirteen in number embarked at
Ipswich in the ship Elizabeth on a fine
morning in May, the weather most
propitious and even Lady Anna was almost
jubilant though she had been at times
greatly depressed. Just before leaving
Maitland received word that his mother
would soon return to Walton Hall and look
after things during his absence, which she
added would be only temporary as neither
himself or Anna would remain long in so
wild and unsettled a country as America.
Young Lord Walton was almost unwilling
to go when he found his mother was about
to take up her abode in the home he con-
side sacred to the Waltons, and he had


[Column 1]
been acquainted, yet they were people of 
social distinction, and had come to America
some of them in official positions, and were
well posted concerning affairs in the new
land, and eager for news from the opposite
side of the Atlantic. The first few days
were all bustle and excitement, and Lord
and Lady Walton were made much of in
a social way, and received with enthusiasm,
and for a time this was very gratifying to
Maitland, but the novelty soon wore off.
Afterward he became restless and as he was
wholly unemployed and did not interest
himself in any public affairs, either political
or religious, relating to the colonies, or in-
deed to his neighbors and best friends, he
was a sort of tax on the nervous energy
of his wife, and she had little to spare, for
her health was very delicate which was a
constant source of anxiety to her cousin
Jane, who had hoped to see her improve in
the new country, where there was so much
to divert her thoughts, and turn her at-
tention from the past.
	Dr. Bland himself was not in the best of
health, though he kept up his daily round
of business, and found plenty of occupation
for many needed medical advice, and he
soon became a great favorite. He was also
intensely interested in all that concerned the
Puritans, which somewhat detracted from
his personal influence with those, who still
maintained their allegiance to the crown.
His wife was one with him in this respect,
if not really more ardent and devotedly
religious in sentiment. Her cousin Anna
shared her feelings and this drove Maitland
farther away from her, and caused him
more jealous feelings towards young Bar-
rington, who quite innocent of any such
misunderstanding still visited at the house,
unconscious of causing discord or enstrange-
ment between husband and wife. It was
through young Barrington’s consistent
teaching that Lady Walton had been con-
verted, and she was so pure-minded and
honest-hearted that Barrington held her in
the highest esteem and their friendship was
such as exists between fervent devotees of
the same religious faith.
	Maitland’s jealousy made him unfeeling
aud he taunted Lady Anna one day with
her devotion to Barrington in such a coarse
way that she broke down, and became
hysterical for the first time since she had
grasped a faith which satisfied her soul.
	Dr. Bland was called and having, noticed
beforehand Maitland’s unreasonable sus-
picions lectured him severely after attending
to his patient. He reproached him with
wooing a beautiful innocent and un-
sophisticated girl surreptitiously, and then
after making her his wife without mercy or
manly honor even breaking her heart, by
his own misdemeanors, and now accusing
her of inconstancy of which he himself had
been guilty. Lord Walton could not de-
fend himself, and therefore remained silent,
but obstinate still, hating his friend unre-
lentingly, yet conscious of his faults;
after rating him soundly the Doctor appeal 
led to his wife, telling her if there was
really anything good in him, she could
find the way to his heart. Upon this sug-
gestion Mrs. Bland sought an interview and
found him a little mellowed, because of the
danger to his wife from his unfeeling re-
marks. Mrs. Bland made plain the facts,
she said, ‘‘You have brought my cousin
here of your own volition, and she is in a
strange country away from all ties and as-
sociations except us, and remember were
anything to happen to her in an unknown

[Column 2]
land, you would be called in question by
her brother, and Mr. Harrison, who would
not leave a stone unturned, or a question
unanswered in reference to the circum-
stances, I warn you now to beware how
you trifle with one who has given up all
else for you, and seriously consider how
you have repaid her.”
	Maitland grew pale and trembled for he
saw how dreadfully in earnest Mrs. Bland
was, and knew how indifferent and in-
constant he had been. He did not attempt
to reply only to bow his head upon his
hands like one condemned. After this
stringing rebuke Mrs. Bland left him to his
own reflections saying, ‘‘Should anything
of this kind ever occur again I shall send
for my cousiu Sir Clair Hilliard to come
and he will settle it with you, for patience
has ceased to be a virtue in this case and
Anna is too dear to me and her life is too
precious to be shattered thus mercilessly.
	Maitland’s remorse was so keen that he
begged the Doctor to let him see his wife
and ask forgiveness for the great wrong he
had done, and he would then at once seek
some sort of occupation in the colony, and
no longer remain an idler and would thus
make some amende honorable for his past,
folly.
	It was not long after this that Lady
Walton recovered for it was her mind more
than her body that was affected, though
she was indeed a frail, delicate woman.
Maitland obtained an official position as
collector of revenues for Great Britain not-
withstanding his title, he had not so much
money to support it, and he had made
up his mind to work. When he wrote his
mother the office he had accepted she
answered him disdainfully, though it was
evident from her tone that she was rather
pleased he had decided to remain away for'
the present.
	By and bye both Lord Walton and Dr.
Bland concluded to build and selected a
place not far away from the location then 
occupied. The purchasing of land and the
building of two spacious mansions afforded
some real pleasure to the ladies, and
was a source of happiness to all, perhaps
more to those English servants, who felt it
quite out of place not to have handsome
homes and elegant surroundings, and
longed for the luxuries of “dear old
England.”
	“For Master and Miss’us to be here in
this Injun country, where we might all be
chopped into mince meat and nobody the
wiser, and what would that proud Lady
Walton say! I’ll never call her by that ’talian
name', never! and our sweet Lady—bless
her, she’ll die here any way, not a thing
comfortable, and if it were not for her.
cousin she’d die anyhow, for she don’t care
a straw for anybody here, and is allays
pinin for the old castle, and what for no-
body knows, for her father was an old brute,
Baronet or not, and everybody hated him,
but she’s the dearest, sweetest cretur ever I
laid eyes on,” said the cook who had come
from Walton Hall all the way to ’Meriky
as she called it.
	Such conversation as this was common
among the old and tried servants, they hated
America and were always gossiping about
the good old times, and yet they would al-
lude now and then to the superstitions about
Walton Hall. However they were discreet
in talking to a chance acquaintance, and held
themselves far above the “hired help” of
the Puritans.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


SALT LAKE CO. W. S A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the W.
S. A. of Salt Lake Co. convened in the
13th, Ward Assembly Rooms, Sep. 19th,
1893. President Nellie Taylor in the chair.
opened by singing “Why do we seek" &c.
Prayer by Vice President E. M. Price, sang.
“O, ye fair ones” &c. Roll called,
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and approved. President Nellie Taylor
announced that four delegates were to be
appointed for the convention to be held in
Oct. it was moved and carried that the
President appoint them accordingly Vice
President E. M. Price, Julia Druce, Vice
President E. Mc. Farlane, and President
Taylor were appointed. Vice President E.
M. Price read a very instructive and in-
teresting lecture upon silver.
	Dr. M. H. Cannon gave a recitation en-
titled “The Sioux chiefs daughter,” which
was much appreciated by those present.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson felt willing to add
her voice in the important question of suf-
frage, that is near and dear to every wo-
man’s heart. Many evils that now exist
would certainly be quicker and more easily
remedied if once woman had the franchise.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought more should
interest themselves in this great and impor-
tant question, made mention of the Woman’s
Congress at Chicago, and said that suffrage
was surely advancing. Let us not allow
this subject to lie neglected and forgotten.
Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in October.
				MAGGIE BASSETT, Sec.


THE regular monthly of the W. S. A.
of Salt Lake Co. was held in the 13th,
Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 17th, 1893.
President Nellie Taylor in the chair: opened
by singing “Our Country,” prayer by Vice
President E. McFarlane. Sang “Oh, come
come away” &c. Roll called, minutes of
the previous meeting read and approved.
	A few excellent clippings were read by
the secretary. A duet was rendered by
Mr. T. Ashworth and Mrs. Maggie Bassett.
	Mrs. May Talmage read an appropriate 
selection. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells and Mrs.
Julia Druce each spoke encouragingly.
	President Nellie Taylor recited “The
Eagle Rock or A Mother’s Love.” Re-
marks were made by Vice President E. M.
Price, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Vice President
E. McFarlane and President Nellie Taylor.
Meeting was adjourned until the third
Tuesday in November.
			MAGGIE BASSETT, Sec.


IN South Australia, full woman suf-
frage is under consideration. On Aug.
15, the Minister of Education moved the
second reading of an adult suffrage bill.
On motion of Mr. Caldwell the debate was
adjourned to Aug. 17. We shall look
with interest for further advices. At the
last accounts the debate was in progress.
—Ex.
	EXERCISES in memory of Mrs. Lucy
Stone were held at the public hour at
Chauncy Hall Wednesday morning Nov-
ember 1st: A poem by Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe was read by Blanche E. Ware, fol-
lowed by the reading of a part of “Eternal
Goodness” by Katharine A. Whiting.
Mrs. Emily A. Fifield addressed the school
on the “Life and Character of Lucy Stone,’’
—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOMETIME WE’LL MEET AGAIN.
	TO  E. B W.	

SOMETIME we’ll meet again dear,
	We cannot know just when,
But once again you will be near
	And I must wait till then.
We’ll joy as when we’re young dear
	And bask in summer smiles,
Nor think of winter cold and drear
	While flower and sun beguiles.

You’ll greet me as of old dear
	And I’ll remember you, 
Your presence shall uplift and cheer 
	The heart that’s ever true, 
And though the world is cold dear
	The tie which binds us two,
Shall stronger grow each year dear
	And link my soul to you.

We’ll bravely lift our eyes dear
	To future’s page unrolled,
Believing that there lies dear 
	Beyond, the Gates of Gold.
We’ll patient be and strong dear
	And hopeful every day,
We know the hour is drawing near
	And God will find the way.
Aug. 5, 1893.				E. L. G.


THE TRIALS OF COLUMBUS.

In the morning of the long night,
	Of bigotry and false learning,
When science began to shed its light,
	Over kings, and men more discerning,
God chose from the city of Genoa,
	A brave youth of humble birth,
His lands beyond the sea to explore;
	Lands of good and princely worth.
That youth, scarce higher than mother's knee;
	Treading adversities rugged path,
Pledged his life to the “Ocean Sea,”
	Contented with its love or wrath,
Imbued with the love of science,
	And thirst for geographical knowledge,
He placed in “Holy writ” his reliance,
	Surprising learned men of Pava’s College.

In the imagination of his youth,
	He pictured scenes of a world sublime;
The grandeur of which proved the truth,
	Of a scheme that grew with time,
For years, twice nine and more,
	While sunny Spain lay half asleep,
He toiled for the Western Shore;
	The mystic lands beyond the deep,
Kings wondered, wise men scoffed, 
	At the bold Explorer’s great theme
Of discovery, the whole world laughed
	As if it was some mad dream.
Cast down by poverty’s long defeat,
	He wandered, hungry and forsaken,
From Courts, to La Rabida’s Retreat,
	His faith in foreign lands unshaken,
Proving to his cause true and just,
	From the fair Isabella of God elected, 
He received, at last the needed trust,
	By foolish kings, so long rejected
Seeing afar, with wondrous knowledge,
	The truth of “Colons” scheme, she declared,
“For love of Castile, my jewels will pledge.”
	Thus the brave Queen, discovery’s hope shared
And with womanly courage untold,
	Drew from Aragon’s drained coffers
The needed thousands of precious gold,
	That silenced forever, Columbus scoffers,
When the explorer’s youth was dimmed,
	By the frost of half a century’s winds,
The Santa Maria, was fitted and trimmed,


For discovery’s voyage over the brines, 
Thus, with souls an hundred and more,
	The ships brave and proud commander,
Sailed the quiet or stormy seas o’er,
	Trusting, in a new world to land her,
Near the lands of wealth uncoined,
 	In Salvador’s early dawn of dew,
The last link of discovery’s chain joined,
	Binding the old world to the new.
						   L.S. Dickinson.
Salt Lake, July 4th, 1892.


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE U. W. P. C. met as usual October
31st, with an extra number of mem-
bers in attendance, Mrs. E. B. Wells, the
President for the past two years, in the
chair.
	After an opening prayer by Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young the reading of minutes and roll
call, the Halloween program was carried
out as follows.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde read a paper stating
the Origin and Meaning of the observance,
which dated back to a very early period.
A number of the members gave interesting
descriptions of the superstitious rites and
ceremonies of the harvest festival which is
celebrated, not only in Scotland, but in
England and America alike, and many
pretty festive home pictures were presented
to the imagination of those present.
	Mrs. Phebe C. Young read Burns’ poem
on the subject. Miss Pearl Russell
favored the club with a vocal selection, fol-
lowed by Miss Belle Salmon who recited a
Scotch selection and when encored respond-
ed with that most-humorous selection “The
Mouse.” Mrs. Z. D. H. Young told an
interesting Halloween story in which the
magic or charm practiced really ended
propitiously for the parties concerned.
“Alonzo the Brave.” was read by Mrs.
Lizzie S. Wilcox. Mrs. E. B. Wells read
a paper relating to the ancient Druids and
Druidesses and their observance of the 31st
of October; it being the eve on which all
fires and lights were extinguished to be
rekindled from the sacred fire at the Altar
on the payment of the yearly tithes or dues
exacted by the priests. Other stories of
various degrees of interest and weird-
ness were read or related as befitting the
evening and occasion. Miss Maude Pratt
then favored the club with instrumental 
music.
	Refreshments were served during a short
intermission, after which the annual election
of officers was effected by ballot. Miss
Patterson introduced a resolution to the
effect that Mrs. E. B. Wells who had so
efficiently filled the position of President,
for the past two years, and who had been
ever foremost in promoting the interests of
the club, should be sustained as honorary
President for life. The question was put
and the resolution unanimously carried.
Mrs. Wells made a short but fitting speach
in which she thanked the members, Miss
Patterson especially, for the honor shown
her and the confidence reposed in her. The
reading of the votes by the Secretary show-
ed the following officers elected.
	President, Ellis R. Shipp, 1st Vice, Prest.
Ruth M. Fox, 2nd Vice Prest, Mary A. Freeze
Rec. Sec. Gladys Woodmansee Asst. Rec.
Sec’y, Ella W. Hyde Cor. Secy, Romania
B. Pratt, Asst, Cor Sec’y, Lydia D. Alder,
Treasurer C. C. R. Wells, program Com-
mittee, Chairman,, Lizzie S. Wilcox, Ada
Patterson, Phebe C. Young. Vice presi-


dents at large A. J. Crocheron, J. A.
McDonald, L. L. Dalton and A. E. Ben-
nion, M. E. Shipp Auditor.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Secy.


GEMS SELECTED.
	IN pastures green? Not always; some-
times He who knoweth best in kindness
leadeth me in weary way where heavy
shadows be; only for this I know, He
holds my hand, so whether led in green or
desert land I trust, although I may not un-
derstand, I oft would faint with sorrow and
affright. But He is near, and by “still
waters”—no not always so, oftimes the
heavy tempests round me blow, and o’er
my soul the waves and billows go. But
when the storm beats loudest, and I cry
aloud for help, the Master standeth by, and
whispers to my soul, “Lo, it is I.” Above
the tempest wild I hear him say; “Beyond
this darkness lies the perfect day in every
path of thine I lead the way.” So,
whether on the hilltops high and fair I
dwell, or in the sunless valley where the
shadows lie—what matter? He is there,
so, where he leads me, I, can safely go, and
in the blest hereafter I shall know why in
His wisdom He hath lead me so."
	“Father, I do not ask that thou wilt
choose some other task and make it mine.
I pray but this, let every day be molded
by thine own hand; my will be only thine.
Let me not simply do, but be content, sure
that the little crosses each are sent, and no
mistakes can ever be, with thine own hand
to choose for me.

Do thy duty; that is best, leave unto thy Lord the
	rest.
"lt is easy enough to be pleasant
	When life flows by like a song,
But the man worth while is one who will smile
	When everthing goes dead wrong.” 

	“The good are better made by ill
	As odors crushed are sweeter still”

	“Lost, somewhere between sunrise and
sunset, two golden hours, each set with
sixty diamond minutes.”
							E. H. LYON.


REORGANIZATION.
REORGANIZATION of the Relief Society
of Granite Ward Oct. 18th, 1893. Meet-
ing called to order by acting President
Catharine M. Staker, Singing “Let those
who would be Saints indeed.” Prayer by
Sister Staker, singing “Now let us rejoice.”
Roll called—minutes of the previous meet-
ing read and accepted.
	The Bishop being present took charge of
the business of the meeting.
	Sister Catharine M. Staker was chosen to
act as President of the society. Sister An-
nie E. Hanson and Sister Susan Despain
were chosen Counselors. These sisters
were unanimously sustained to fill the
above named offices and were set apart to
act therein; good counsel and encouraging
remarks were received from the Bishopric
and other brethren. 
	Our society is not what we might call
first class as yet, owing to a great many dis-
advantages, but we hope to make it such as
soon as possible. Meeting was adjourned
for three weeks, singing “We thank thee
O, God for a prophet.”  Benediction by
Bishop Alva Butler.
			ANNIE B. DESPAIN, Sec.
Wasatch Oct. 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. - Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
    
SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1893.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE TO LUCY STONE.
	IN the death of Lucy Stone all advocates
and ardent workers for the enfranchisement
of woman must indeed feel they have lost a
friend and fellow laborer, whose strength
and individual effort was felt wherever her
name was spoken. Always logical, clear-
headed and intelligent in all her arguments
she convinced her audiences where many
more flowery speakers failed to make a last-
ing impression. She had a remarkable face,
full of kindness and true mother-love, and
this not only for her own but for the world
of mankind, the intense love and sympathy
she carried into her work wrought marvels
in the cause, to which she devoted her life,
her talents and her energies with untiring
diligence; and in which she succeeded so
admirably, not only in furthering the high-
er progress of women and of men, but
also in making friends of the opponents of
woman’s suffrage where great and wise
men failed. To Lucy Stone women owe
much of the present popularity of the
suffrage sentiment.
	The newspapers of the East and North
abound with beautiful testimonials of the
pure, true, womanly life of this friend of
humanity. Boston, and the state of Massa-
chussetts may well be justly proud of Lucy
Stone. No doubt a fitting monument of
marble will yet be erected in remembrance
of her faithful service. As a brilliant
example of heroism and meritorious work,
perserving under perplexing difficulties,
and rising superior to all obstacles that
opposed her onward way,her life is a fitting
illustration; the young women of the
present day, have had the way to success
in many directions, in a great measure
cleared of thorns and briers by such
brave women as Lucy Stone. As long as
we have known of woman suffrage and
even before we heard the sound,
when the anti-slavery work was in
progress, we can recall hearing the name of
this woman among women.
	Judge how gladly the writer embraced the 
opportunity of visiting her in her own
home when an invitation was given her, in
the winter of 1886 while spending a few
days in the grand old city of Boston.
Previously several letters had been ex-
changed between the editor of the Woman's
Journal and the writer, and we took the
liberty of making a fraternal call at the
Journal office Park Street, where we met
Mr. Blackwell. Subsequently it was ar-
ranged that we should go out to the home

[Column 2]
of the Blackwells and spend a few hours:
accordingly in company with Mr. Blackwell
we took the old colony R. R. to Neponset.
It was winter time and a sleigh was in
waiting at the depot and driving swiftly
and talking as we went up a steep ascent
Pope’s Hill, we soon reached the handsome
residence of the celebrated woman, whom
we were so eager to see. Standing on the
piazza to welcome us was Lucy Stone her-
self, the sun was just setting in the West
and the glory of that sunset was heightened
by the beautiful light in her face, and the
warm welcome to her stranger guest was
like a benediction. Once inside the cheerful
fire burning brightly we sat and talked of
this and that, recalling things familiar to
one born and bred in New England,and we
felt almost akin when told she was born in
Brookfield the same town where our own
dear mother was born and that we knew so
well. Other subjects such as woman’s
progress in the West, the practical workings
of the ballot for women in Utah which was
then enjoyed, the hopes we entertained of
future advancement etc. In all these and
kindred topics her daughter Alice Stone
Blackwell joined and the time flew on the
wings of the wind. The conversation was
so entertaining that it was difficult to break
off, though we had dined sumptuously and
the hour was growing late. The hostess
showed us her desk where she wrote those
strong and forcible editorials and remarkable
paragraphs that were often silent forces in
remote corners of the world, and as we sat
facing each other at each side of the open
grate just before parting, she said how strange
that two so widely separated, by the whole
width of continent nearly from the Atlantic
almost to the Pacific should meet as ’twere
casually and have so much in common to
talk about.
	Since then we have met several times,and
at the Woman’s Congress in Chicago last
summer she seemed as likely to live for
many years, and looked as fresh and rosy as
most of the younger women. But no doubt
her work here was done and she has passed
to another sphere, and doubtless to solve
some higher problems, leaving her daughter
and others to carry upward and onward the
glorious structure for which she laid so firm
and fair a foundation.
	Honor and praise to the heroine Lucy
Stone, her very name is a talisman of good
and her writings and sayings are an imper-
shable monument to her blessed memory.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
THE good news from Colorada that the
vote of the state for woman’s suffrage was
6,000 majority comes like good tidings to
the country, and presages the good time
when political equality will no longer be a
by word and a jest, but an acknowledged
fact the civilized world over.

	We wish to call the attention of our
many readers to the display advertisment of
the Dunford Shoe Co. which appears in
this issue of the EXPONENT.  They have
just moved from their old location on first
South St. to the elegant store of Spencer
Clawson’s No. 57 S. Main St., half a block
north of Deseret National Bank.  Every-
thing in the line of footwear is carried by
this popular house and the prices are such 1
as to be in the reach of all  "Style, fit and
durability” at hard time prices is the motto
at Dunford’s shoe store. Ladies will please


take notice this business is conducted by a
woman and should therefore receive their
patronage.


WOMAN’S FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
	[REPORT OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE HAWAIIAN
ISLANDS, HELD AT HONOLULU, SEP. 30TH,
1893.]
	CONTRARY to the usual custom, the
October Conference of the Relief Society, 
Sunday School and Improvement Associa-
tion were held in Honolulu together with
the Honolulu Branch Conference, instead
of at Laie; these Conferences were held a
week earlier than usual, in order to give
the Missionaries and the Saints time to re-
turn to Laie for general Conference. The
object in this change was to give those of
the Honolulu saints as well as many from
the other Islands, who have not animals or
conveyances to come to Laie, an op-
portunity of attending Conference and of
meeting with and listening to the teachings
of the Elders in a body.
	There was quite a family of us when we
were gathered together in our cosy little
Mission House at Honolulu, twenty in
number, and although somewhat crowded,
yet we felt happy and joyous and full of
the spirit of our mission.
	Saturday morning, Sep. 30th, at ten
o’clock the Relief Society of the Islands
convened in Conference, President Libbie
Noal presiding. After the usual opening
exercises, the reports for the last half year
were read by Secretary Kekuewa Nakuan
showing a membership of 498; number of
meetings held 337;  Receipts $297.45,
Disbursements $113.15;  Amount remain-
ing in Treasury $184.30.
	There were in all seventeen branches re-
ported, ten less than reported at our last
Conference, this deficiency is owing to the
fact that, through the moving about of the
Saints, many of the branches which other-
wise would be in a flourishing condition,
have not sufficient numbers to warrant an
organization.
	President Libbie Noal first addressed the
Conference; thanking the sisters for the
cordial reception extended, to the visiting
saints, for the interest manifested in the
work, as shown by the large attendance,
and for the spirit of love and good will
apparent in the hearts of the saints for the
Missionaries and for each other; dwelt up-
on the duties and obligations resting upon
the sisters as handmaids of the Lord; ex-
plained in detail many points relative to the
carrying on of the work of the organiza-
tion, that all might labor together as a unit,
and conduct their labors in a business-like
way.
	After listening to the verbal reports of
the condition of the various societies by
their respective “eleles,” or representatives,
several of the native sisters addressed the
Conference upon subjects previously as-
signed them and they handled them in a
very creditable and intelligent manner.
“The Life of Hannah, Mother of Samuel”
by Kaluapalaoa; “Mary, mother of Jesus”
by Kahuhu; “Life of Mary and Martha,
sisters of Lazarus,” by Niaulani.  “The
Woman of Samaria” by Ruth Kauahine.
Original song for the occasion by Kekuewa
Nakuan. Sister Maggie Davis spoke at
some length, explaining the object of the
society, the benefits derived from such an
organization and encouraging the sisters in


their labors. Sister Nellie Grace read an
essay upon the past, present and future of
Woman. Sisters Davis, Grace and Presi-
dent M. Noal favored the sisters with a
song, which they seemed to heartily enjoy.
The choir rendered a selection after each
speaker, which gave life and spirit to our
meeting.
	At the conclusion of the programme,
President M. Noal presented the names of
the general authorities of the Relief Society
before the Conference, all of whom were
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Libbie Noal was sustained as
President of the Relief Society of the
Hawaiian Islands, with all of the Mission-
ary sisters as her counselors, and with
Kekuewa, Kahuhu, Kaluapalaoa, Niaulani
and Luka as Aids, Kekuewa as Recording
Secretary with Laeka as her assistant, Nel-
lie Grace, Corresponding Secretary and M.
Noal Treasurer. At the close of our Con-
ference, we adjourned to the basement of
the Meeting House, when we were bedeck-
ed with two and three beautiful flower
“Leis," and where we found a grand
Hawaiian Feast prepared for us, consisting
of poi, beef, pork and chicken, several
varities of fish, kalo, sweet potatoes, bread,
cake of different kinds, oranges, melons,
banannas, pineapples and soda-water, to all
of which we did ample justice, not forget-
ting to appreciate the love and respect
which prompted the saints of Honolulu to
thus look after our comfort and welfare
in such a substantial manner. Through
the labors of the missionary sisters, a
circular has been prepared, which is to be
distributed among the different branches
of the society containing general
instruction and directions, pertaining to the
duties of the different officers and which
will serve as a guide for the government
and managment of the respective branches
of the society; this will supply a want long
needed, as many of the organizations have
never been visited personally by the mis-
sionary sisters, although letters of counsel
and instruction have been sent out to every
branch upon the Islands.
	As a band of sisters, we are united and
happy in our labors here, and our hearts
desire is, that the Lord will bless us that
we may be useful instruments in his hands
in helping to better the condition of our
native sisters upon these Islands; that by
precept and example we may implant in
their hearts a desire to aspire to something
higher and nobler than they have yet at-
tained, and that they may feel they have
been made better by our presence among
them.
	Mrs. Nellie Grace, Cor. Sec.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


UTAH COUNTY W. S. A.
 
	THE annual convention of the Utah
county branch of the Territorial Woman’s
Suffrage association will be held in the
Provo meeting house on Thursday, Nov-
vember 23, 1893.  The executive session
will convene at 10 o’clock a. m.  The con-
vention proper will commence at 2 p. m.
The Territorial president Mrs. E. B. Wells,
will be here, also delegates from the various
organizations of the county.  All are
cordially invited.

	Mrs. ELECTA BULLOCK, President.
	REBECCA H. DOOLAN, Secretary


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 21, 1893.  President M. I. Horne
presiding.  Opened by singing "O, say
what is truth” &c. Prayer by Sister
Julia Pack continued by singing “Our
God we raise to thee" &c.
	Minutes of last meeting read and ap-
proved, minutes of a concert held in the
15th, ward also those of a Primary held
there, read by a little girl.
	President Horne said she was pleased
with the minutes read by the little girl and
glad to hear the young voice in our midst.
	President Horne spoke of the death of
Sister Fletcher, President of the Relief
Society of the 8th ward, said she had been
a true and faithful Latter-day saint, a good
worker and had discharged every duty,
that had devolved upon her and had gone
to her reward, said she would come forth in
the morning of the first resurrection
crowned with honor and glory.  I have
thought much upon the sphere of woman
her mission and duties.
	The prophet Joseph when he sent the
missionaries out to preach the Gospel,
told them not to pull a man’s house down,
until they had built him a better one.  Now
have thought much on some women, who
want positions and do not appreciate being a
wife and mother.
	Woman should make her home happy
and beautify it, also take care of the little
ones who are given unto us.  Who fashions
the little garments, who makes the clothing
to lay out the dead, who sew the veil of the
Temple?  Do not women do all these
things?  We should meet together and have
our minds enlarged, and become more in-
telligent, so that we could perform all these
labors better.
	Our duties are not inferior to man’s, but
our natures are different and our missions
are different.  Do not women bear the
souls of men?  The highest mission that
can be given.  Is not her kingdom her
home? To keep that home orderly and
well needs as much intelligence as any one
can attain to.  She is a helpmate to her
husband, and all honor to her in her sphere.
	Remember these things sisters and let us
teach our daughters to be self-reliant and
industrious.  President Horne gave other
wise counsel, and prayed that the spirit of
God would be with us.
	Sister Hurst of Pleasant Green, bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel and desired to be faithful and true.
	Sister E. Stevenson, said I feel to say
God bless Sister Horne, she is a noble wo-
man and a faithful mother. I feel to endorse
what she has said to day.  Let us teach our
children to seek unto God, in their selec-
tions in marriage we can be so tried in
this way.  Let us adorn our spiritual
natures and be partakers of the Spirit of
God &c.
	Sister Mary P. Silver announced that the
sister who had been emigrated from the old
world had arrived, and was glad to be in
Zion.
	Sister Minnie Cook spoke of the wondeful
dealings of God to her and felt to praise
His Holy name.
	Sister M. L. Morris bore her testimony
and spoke of the many duties devolving up-
on a woman, added other good remarks.
	Sang Doxology, meeting was adjourned
for two weeks.  Benediction by Counselor
Webb. 	L. D. ALDER, Acting Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.

	MINUTES of Conference of Relief Society
of Utah Stake held in Payson City meeting
house Oct. 13, 1893. The Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society on the stand
also Sister E. B. Wells from Salt Lake
City Conference opened with singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former Con-
ference etc.
	The President Sister John felt pleased to
meet in Conference with the sisters of Pay-
son, thought it a good plan to appoint our
Conferences around in the different settle-
ments, many were enabled thereby to
attend conference, who could not otherwise
do so; the sisters are faithful in helping the
poor, and in gathering means for that pur-
pose.
	We have Sister Wells with us today, and
many Presidents and will now hear from
them.
	President Pickard of Springville, Presi-
dent Colvin of Payson, President Stickney
of Santaquin, gave very favorable and
encouraging reports of their wards, all were
united in trying to do all the good they
could.
	Sister E. B. Wells the next speaker said,
“Sister Zina very much wished to be with
us but other duties prevented her, she de-
sires your faith and prayers, she needs your
faith and prayers just as much as the
brethren do, all you who have read Brother
Joseph’s remarks at the Relief Society know
what he said on that subject, of sustaining
with your faith and prayers those who are
called to lead. I have felt gratified in hear-
ing the reports read. I love to hear of the 
good work our sisters are doing, and it
pleases me to hear of our sisters saving
grain as they have been counseled to do,
am pleased to hear of the sisters building
houses to meet in.” spoke about the grain
that was being laid up thought that it be-
longed to the Lord, and the Church and
was for the poor, and the needy, and not
for any particular society, but would be
distributed as directed by the Presidency;
no matter who the needy were, whether
they were saint or not, if they were needy,
we must be charitable, she was very glad
to meet with us here in Payson.
	After. singing and prayer Conference ad-
journed until half past one p. m.
Sister Marilla Daniels spoke on various
subjects of interest such as storing our
grain, the good instructions that were given
us at Conference etc., etc., thought the
storing of grain was a word of warning to
the people, and we must give heed to it,
and take care of it, spoke of Dr. Barney’s
method of saving flour by packing it in oil
cans and sealing it up air tight etc. She
bore her testimony to the truth of this
work; we are here in the fulfillment of
prophesy, let us keep the spirit of God and
we will be all right.
	Sister John felt it a privilege to belong to
the Relief Society, it is a school for us, it
unites us with each other, we become ac-
quainted with each other by meeting to-
gether in these conferences, thought this
Stake was progressing in good works, ad-
vised the sisters to store up wheat, and be
faithful in all the duties devolving upon us,
tried to impress upon the sisters the idea of
all being Suffragists etc.
	Sister Wells spoke again for a short time,
on the importance of saving our grain, after
taking care of our poor, thought the teach


ers had very responsible positions teaching
the sisters temporally as well as spiritually,
said try to cheer and comfort them, do not
talk much about hard times, we do not
know much about hard times, but when she
thought of the hand-cart companies she
could not help shedding tears, “we are not
poor we are rich.” Sister Wells spoke of
the Silk exhibit from Utah, at the World’s
Fair, and of the notice it attracted, and of
the beautiful curtains sent from Utah being
on exhibition in a glass case, advised the
Sisters to raise cocoons and make silk, we
can make silk dresses, curtains, ribbons, etc.
if we will only work for it. President
Young said the air was fnll of silk, spoke
of the exertions of Brother Graves in trying
to get that industry started, said we must
promote home industries, we must sustain
our own industries and employ our own
people, and there will be plenty of money
soon, but we are very extravagant as a
people, in New England they are more
saving than we are. “Let us cultivate
kindness to each other, and not despise any
one that cannot dress as well as we can,
the Lord’s hand has been over us for good,
we have been preserved from storms and
cyclones, and we as a people should be
very grateful to our Heavenly Father for
his protecting care which hath been over
us.”
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned for three months.
		Mrs. Caroline Daniels, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STAR VALLEY STAKE.
	The first Relief Society conference of'
the Star Valley Stake convened at Afton
Wyoming Monday, June 12, 1893, at 10
a. m. President Kittie E. Dixon presid-
ing. Meeting commenced by singing,
prayer by Prest.  A. V. Call, singing by
the choir. Opening remarks appropriate
to the occasion by Prest. Kittie Dixon. The
branches of the society were then represen-
ted as follows:
	Afton, Prest. Harriet Cazier, Grover,
Hannah Hepworth, Auburn, Catharine 
Holbrook, Glencoe, Elizabeth Turner.
All were represented as in good order.
The statistical and financial reports were
then read. Counselor S. A. Burton made
a few remarks in which she gave good in-
structions. Meeting adjourned by singing,
benediction by Secretary Lucy Call.
	Afternoon Session. Meeting opened by
singing, prayer by Sister Cazier, Singing
by the choir, Prest. Childs of Fairview, and
Sec. E. Walton of Cotton-Wood then re-
ported their wards as in good condition.
Some of the Sisters of the various wards
then made some very instructive remarks.
One of the Stake Presidency gave some
good counsel and encouraged the Sisters to
press on in the good cause in which they 
were engaged. Prest. Kittie Dixon made
a few closing remarks. Conference then
adjourned for six months. Singing. Bene-
diction by Bishop C. D. Cazier.
Kittie E. DIXON President.
Sarah A. Burton, 
Jane Parson, Counselors.
Lucy Call, Secretary.


CASSIA STAKE.
The conference of the Relief Society of
Cassia Stake convened at Oakley Aug. 18,
1893. On the stand were Prest. Louisa


Haight and counselors with the ward
presidents.
	The conference was opened by singing
and prayer; every ward represented and re-
ported in a favorable condition. Counselor
Helen E. Tuttle addressed the assembly,
spoke about forgiveness, and the necessity
of prayer. An article from the Exponent
was read “The World’s Congress of
Women.’, Coun. Ann Wilson said we
should do our duties td the best of our
ability, she felt to press on by the help of
the Lord. Brother Cyrus Tolman spoke in
regard to our doing work for the dead, and
preparing ourselves to be worthy to meet
those who had gone behind the vail. Ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session. Opened with the
usual exercises and reading of Semi-
Annual reports of the branches of the Re-
lief Society. Sister Ann Bird expressed
herself in regard to our financial condition,
trials were to purify us, we must have charity
and love for each other. Brother Moroni
Pickett addressed the conference, spoke of
the organizations of women, and their
duties women have been secondary until
the present, they are to walk side by side
with their husbands what is man’s interest
is woman’s interest.
	Sister Sarah Worthington bore a faithful
testimony. Prest. H. D. Haight said. It is
encouraging to see so many here and to
hear the instructions we have had, spoke of
our financial affairs.
	Prest. Louisa Haight spoke of hard times
and the necessity of storing up grain.
General and Stake officers sustained.
Conference adjourned for three  months. 
  	Lucynthia Robbins, Sec.


[Column 1]
MESA ITEMS.

Editor Exponent.
	DEAR SISTER.:—I have often thought as
my mind reverted to the scenes I passed
through in the city, that I would like to
pen a few lines in regard to our condition
and prospects in this far off sun-kissed land,
although we are behind hand in our Con-
ference reports,—I am happy to say that
our Relief Society in the several wards is
still alive, and doing a good work,consider-
ing the number who are really interested in
it and I hope and trust there will always
be a faithful few, energetic sisters who will
strive to keep the car moving and will
never slacken their efforts for good, how-
ever discouraging the prospects are. There
has been quite a number of changes made
in the officers of the wards and Stake, the
nature of which I presume has been re-
ported by the proper officers. We fully
realize that the race is not to the swift, nor
the battle to the strong, but to those
who hold out faithful to the end, this the
majority of us are trying to do.
	The Mesa Society has a hall which the sisters
have reason to feel proud of. It was built
by the united efforts of our society with
some backing from our good brethren. It
is built of brick and neatly finished and
furnished. Its originial cost was $150.00
but lately they have had some repainting,
and furnishing, costing about $70.00 more.
It was dedicated by Apostle J. H. Smith,
and since then the sweet peaceful inspiration
of the Spirit of God, has met with us in all
our meetings, many have remarked that
this influence was felt as soon as they
entered the hall. However we feel truly
grateful, that we have been blessed with

[Column 2]
means to enable us to accomplish this much;
of course the building of it has kept our
treasury, pretty well drained; but we felt
that we were putting our means to good
use, and we were obeying the counsel of
our leaders; I remember the last Relief
Society Conference I attended in the
Assembly Hall in Salt Lake, Sister Zina
Young laid great stress upon this subject,
advising the sisters not to hoard up their
means to make a large showing, but after
the sick and needy were cared for to take
their surplus means and build them halls for
meeting purposes. I can say with pride
that our society has filled its mission faith-
fully in caring for the sick in our midst,
frequently hiring experienced nurses to
care for those who were not able to help
themselves, and also in assisting those
faithful sisters in the Indian Mission, per-
haps a few words in regard to this mission
would not be out of place. Sister Susan
Savage is President of the Relief Society
of the Papago Ward which is a mixture of
Papago Maricopa and Pimo tribes. She
has Sisters Tiffany and Webb for Counselors
also Sister Susan Brady to assist them.
I don’t believe there was ever a band of
missionaries sent to the nations of the earth,
who were more anxious to do good and fill
their missions faithfully than these sisters.
	They (the natives) have great faith in the
healing power and when they are sick they
frequently send for those sisters to
administer to them. Sister Savage and
counselors, with characteristic energy, have
started a manuscript paper amongst them
inviting the Stake sisters to contribute
articles that will be best suited to their un-
derstandings. Sister Savage has through
faith and prayer succeeded in gaining a
knowledge of the language, sufficient to
interpret to their understanding what is
written which pleases them and is of great
benefit to them. They have a fine choir of
beautiful voices and sing from the L. D. S.
Hymn Book. Sister Thankful Harmon
(now deceased) was very energetic in train-
ing them in their singing exercises and was
missed very much when she died about a
year ago.
	Perhaps I have extended this article too
much already, use it as seemeth thee good!
With good wishes for all Zion’s Workers.
I am as ever your friend, S. M. POMEROY.


VANITY.

	WE are told by an ancient Apostle that
we are subject to vanity as the sparks that
fly upward; this being the case would it
not be well to cultivate a sound mind a
sincere and devoted heart, that we may not
lose the prize of our high calling through
vanity, for this being called the spice of
life, is there not danger that we may not
lose the prize of our high calling through
vanity, for this being called the spice of
life, is there not danger that we flavor our
lives or character too much with these spices
so that the simple food so necessary to sus-
tain life becomes to a degree hurtful, losing
the nutritious quality which the plain food
would give us.
	To a hard student who is making it his
object and aim to arrive at some intelligence
which he greatly desires, he sometimes
needs a little recreation or amusement to
give his mind a rest, then he takes hold
again with more vigor and a joyful anticipa-
tion of gaining the victory eventually when
he has exercised and developed the abilities
God has given him. 
	But, how is it with those who have no
object of this kind, and only seem to live


here for the purpose of enjoying all that is
within their reach, as it is written. “Live
while you live” the Epicure will say “and
seize the pleasure of the present day.”
While another person cries, “Live while 
you live”, the sacred preacher cries, “and
give to God each moment as its flies.”
	We find many in these days are like the
Antideluvians were in the days of Noah.
Would they listen to his warning voice,
Oh, no! They feel to say, how does Noah
know all this? Why does not the Lord
speak to us if this be true?
	But did they seek to become acquainted
with their Heavenly Father while their
minds are so full of vanity is there any
room there for His good spirit? Could He
speak to one whose spirit is exactly op-
posite to His own; would it make an im-
pression if the Lord should speak to them?
I think not. But when this calamity
came upon them then they realized the
truth of Noah’s words: a subject they had
no time or disposition to listen to then, but
now can both see and feel the importance
of the same.
	But this is not all. Now I would ask
how did they feel when the Messiah came
into the prison as we read in first Epistle of
Peter 3rd,chapter 19 and 20 verses. They re-
joiced no doubt, because they had heard of
a Messiah who was to come to redeem a
fallen world and now he is here in prison
with them: no doubt he came to do us
good as Moses and all the prophets have
testified He would do: they could then
listen to them. Just fancy the joy they
felt in seeing the Lord of Heaven and
earth come to visit them. Do not you
think they had faith that this visit would
result in some good to them being a part of
the human family also. O yes, and the
Lord also had compassion. He who when
on the cross said, “Father forgive them for
they know not what they do” would surely
feel for those who were drowned by the
flood.  He told his disciples what they
must do to be saved, for faith without
works was dead.
	You know that He told Nicodemus he
must be born again to enter into his king-
dom, yes be born of water and the spirit or
he could not see the kingdom of God. Now
could the Antideluvians do this? Their
spirits were separated from the body, yes
their bodies were here with mother earth.
	Well what do we read in Acts 1st, chapter
3rd, verse, we read that Jesus was on the
earth forty days making arrangements for
the salvation of the human family. He
told his disciples to wait at Jerusalem until
they received the Holy Ghost and then
ascended into heaven in their sight. We
read in Book of Mormon He visited the
Nephites on this continent after His
resurrection, and taught them how to serve
God acceptably by the sermon on the mount,
and established the same organization that
he did at Jerusalem, &c.
	Now we see that baptism for the dead
was an established rule after his resurrection,
This being an important lesson can not we
lay aside vanity while we study such lessons
as these. We find much to say if we study
such lessons as this. We find much to say
if we study it properly. Your friend,
	ZION'S CONVERT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT,


[Column 1]
THE WAR OF THE REBELLION 
		 (Concluded.)
	IN the meantime a vast army had been
collected near Washington under General

[Column 2]
McClellan, the object of which was to cap-
ture the Confederate capital. Early in March
an advance was ordered.
	At Fair Oaks McClellan’sarmy was attack-
ed May 31st, a fearful but indecisive battle
ensued. General Joseph E. Johnston, the
Confederate General-in-chief, having been
severely wounded, was relieved from duty
and'General Lee appointed to the command.
General Jackson popularly known as“Stone-
wall Jackson,” having defeated or eluded
the Union Armies in the Shenandoah val-
ley, joined Lee.
		MOTTO OF JACKSON.
	“We are now,” he wrote, ‘‘in a state of
war which will yield to nothing. The
whole south is in a state of revolution into
which Virginia after a long struggle has
been drawn; and though I recognize no
necessity for this state of things, and would
have forborne and pleaded to the end for
redress of grievances, real or supposed, yet
in my own person I had to test the question
whether I should take part against
my native state. With all my devotion to
the Union and the feeling of loyalty and
duty of an American citizen—I have not
been able to make up my mind, to raise my
hand against my relatives, my children, my
home. I have therefore resigned my com-
mission in the army, and, save in defeuce
of my native state with the sincere hope,
that my poor services may never be called
upon to draw my sword.’’
	At this time there were three armies in
the vicinity of Washington, one under the
command of Freemont, another of Banks—
and the third of McDowell. These were
united, forming one body, called the army
of Virginia. Pope, at his own request
having been relieved McClellan was again
intrusted with the command of the Federal
forces in and around Washington, the Con-
federate General had supposed that large
re-enforcements would flock to him in
Maryland, but in this he was dissappointed,
McClellan following Lee the invaders were
overtaken at South mountain, and though
they were defeated in the battle that ensued,
Sep. 14th, Harper’s Ferry with its garrison
of more than eleven thousand men, and its
vast munitions of war, was surren-
dered to a division of their army on the
following morning.
	Long before the next day broke, the na-
tional troops rising from their rest on the
bare ground, made ready their coffee, and
eating their simple breakfast, prepared
for a renewal of battle. They believed
that Lee had no escape. The river was at
his back. All day passed and a second
wearisome night and then there was news.
Lee had given McClellan the slip he had
actually crossed the Potomac unmolested,
and escaped into Virginia.” Lee’s army,
though foiled and compelled to retreat, won
commendation from foes as well as friends.
	“It had fought its way to the Potomac,
crossed the stream, met the Union troops
in two heavy engagements, fought the bat-
tle of Antietam—the greatest pitched bat-
tle of the war—and then recrossed the
Potomac, back into Virginia.
	During all this time, covering the full
space of a month, these troops rested but
four days. And let it be always remembered
to their honor, that of the men who per-
formed this wonderful achievement, one
fifth were barefoot one half in rags and
the whole half famished. ”
	McClellan remained in Maryland till

[Column 3]
about the first of November, when he
crossed the Potomac, but President Lincoln
was dissatisfied with his inactivity, ap-
pointed General Burnside in his stead.
Burnside, believing that the true line of
operations against Richmond was the direct
one,” advanced to the Rappohannock, op-
posite  Fredericksburg. Lee anticipating
Burnside’s movements, had meanwhile
marched along the south side of the river
to Fredericksburg while the Union troops
were waiting for pontoons to cross the river.
Lee improved the time by planting
batteries on the hill in the rear of the city.
The pontoons finally arrived and the river
crossed, but the heroic attempt to carry the
batteries were repulsed with terrible loss.
Thirteen thousand men of Burnside’s army
fell, and he was compelled to recross the
river. Money was easy enough to satisfy
everybody. The financial system adopted
by the Confederate Government consisted
in the issue of treasury notes enough to
meet the expenses of the Government.
Coffee was bought at forty dollars and tea
at thirty dollars a pound. A Southern
writer says ‘‘before the war I went to
market with the money in my pocket and
brought back my purchases in a basket, but
now I take the money in a basket, and
bring the things home in my pocket. ” A
cavalry officer, entering a little country store
found a pair of boots which fitted him,
he asked the price, ‘‘Two hundred dol-
lars” said the merchant, A five hundred 
dollar bill, was offered, but the merchant 
having no smaller bills could not change it.
	‘‘Never mind said the cavalier, I’ll take
the boots anyhow keep the change. I
never let a little matter of three hundred
dollars stand in the way of a trade.” 
	In the third year of the war, President 
Lincoln said, ‘‘My object is to save the
Union and not either to save or destroy
slavery.”
	‘‘If I could save the Union without freeing,
any slaves, I would do so. If I could save it
by freeing all the slaves I would do so, or by
freeing some and leaving others I would do
that.” Events controlled him. Then
“black regiments,” began to organize to
fight in the national service. At the close
of the year fifty thousand colored men were
in actual service.
	In the third year of the war President
Lincoln by an act of Congress recruited
the army by drafting. This caused great
excitement in New York a riot broke out
which lasted four days and was only put
down by the most determined effort of the
police and the military. (The battle of
Chickarauga.)
	The Union forces driven behind the in-
trencliments of Chattanooga. With the
Confederates holding the surrounding
hills, Lookout Mountain and Missionary
ridge—their position was critical indeed. 
	They were also in danger of starvation,
the “mud was so deep” wrote one of the
soldiers that we could not travel by the
road, but we got along pretty well by step-
ping from mule to mule as they lay dead from
starvation by the way. Still General
Thomas telegraphed “I will hold fast till 
all starve.” It was evident that something
must be done at once and quickly. Rein-
forcements under Hooker were therefore
rushed by rail to the aid of the troops.
Grant was ordered to take the command.
	General Sherman, who had distinguished
himself under Grant at the West was also
called to command, Thus Sherman com.


menced his march to the sea Nov. 15th,
after many cold nights Fort Mcallister was
reached and carried by assault, and on the
morning of the (21st, of Dec.) Sherman
entered Savannah. In announcing his
triumph to President Lincoln, he said  "I
beg to present you a Christmas gift, the
city of Savannah, with one hundred and
fifty guns, plenty of ammunition,  and
twentyfive thousand bales of cotton"
	Sherman halted at Savannah only long
enough to rest his troops.  Commanded a
march in the depth of winter to join Grant,
who was confronting Lee near Richmond.
	Lee saw he must either evacuate Richmond
and Petersburg,or be captured.  He then
began to form a plan by which he might
retreat into North Carolina, and there join
Johnston. Grant anticipating this issued
orders for a general movement against Rich-
mond. On the morning of March 29th,
it began, Sheridan's advance led to the bat-
tle of five forks, next morning at daybreak,
a general assault upon the Confederate lines
was made and before noon the entire
exterior defenses were captured. “In
Richmond, for it was Sunday the people had
assembled in the churches, knowing little of
what was going on twenty miles distant at
the fort. Davis had repaired to his custom-
ary place of worship.  There came up the
aisle a messenger, who handed him a dis-
patch from Lee, which contained intel-
ligence of the most momentous event of the
war. The news passed quickly from lip to
lip from church to church.
	Men women and children rushed from
the churches. Wagons on the streets were
soon loaded and driven to Danville depot.
The banks were all open and depositers
were as busy as bees removing their
deposits.  Hundreds of thousands of dol-
lars of paper money were destroyed.  From
that moment, law and order ceased to exist.
The warehouses were fired. The rams on
the James river were also fired. The
bridges leading out of the city were also
fired and were soon wrapped in flames.
	Morning broke upon a scene such as those
who witnessed it can never forget. “The
sun was an hour or more above the horizon,
when suddenly there ran up the whole
length of Main street the cry of ‘Yankees!
Yankees’!
	The Union soldiers were indeed entering
the city, and Potsburg was also in possess-
ing of the National forces, and over both
cities the stars and stripes again floated.
	Lee retreated to the south west, hoping to be
able to join Johnston in North Carolina, but
his troops were hotly pursued. “There was
no rest for them either by night or by day.
If they attempted to snatch a few moments
sleep, they were roused by the hoof-clatter
of Sheridan’s cavalry.” At last, overtaken
and seeing no hope of escape.  Lee agreed
to surrender.  In the largest building of
Appomattox Court House which boasted of
only five dwellings, he and Grant met.
“Lee stood beside a table, wearing a bright
blueish gray uniform, a military hat with a
gold cord, buckskin gauntlets, high riding-
boots and a beautiful sword. Grant, with
his slouched hat, dark blue frock coat
covered with mud, pantaloons tucked in his
soiled boots—wore no sword.
	They shook hands, sat down and soon
agreed to the terms of surrender, April 9th.
	The surrender of Johnston soon followed
and the Great Civil War was at an end.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1] 
IN MEMORIAM.

	IT is with deep regret, that we record the death
of our beloved President, Esther B. Fletcher,
who departed this life September 30, 1893, after
an illness of nine days.
	Sister Fletcher was born in Mass, where
she embraced the Gospel, and with her family
gathered with the saints in Kanesville on the
Missouri River, and in 1850 arrived in Salt Lake
City, and settled in the 8th, Ward, where she re-
sided until the day of her death. Her husband
died shortly after her arrival, and she was after-
ward united in plural marriage to Brother Royal
Barney.
	She was the mother of nine children, seven of
whom survive her, and are honorable members of
the Church of Jesus Christ.
	She held many responsible positions, being
appointed a teacher in the early organization of
the Relief Society about the year 1852, and again
to the same office, at the general organization
about 1867, she was afterward appointed secre-
tary, and again counselor, which position she
filled with great satisfaction, and in 1882, she was
set anart as President, the duties of which office
she faithfully performed until the time of her
death.
	She was president of the Primary Association
for seven years and a half; and in the early days
of Utah, taught school, she did a great work for
her dead ancestors in the St. George and Salt
ake City Temples showing her life to be filled
with good works. She was a woman of great in-
tegrity full of love for the principles of the Gos-
pel, never swerving, firm and steadfast. May
her children, with whom we sympathize, follow
in her footsteps, and may we her co-laborers,
emulate her virtues, and profit by her good
example,
	C. K. Palmer, President.
	S.J. Chamberlain,   
	Jane Cowan,  Counselors.
	J. Mortenson Sec’y.
	E. E. Frost, Treasurer.
IN memory of Sister Louisa E. Young who
died Sept. 18, 1893, aged 30 years, she leaves a
husband, six small children and a host of friends
to mourn her loss. Where-as in the Providence
of God with His unbounded wisdom, we have been 
deprived of the companionship, help and as-
sociation of Sister Louisa E. Young a faithful
officer and member of the Relief Society;
	Resolved—That we tender our deepest love
and sympathy to the memory of the dear de-
parted.
	Resolved—That in this great bereavement we
acknowledge the hand of God, and bow to the
nevitable, but realize that in her we have lost an
able and loving associate, whose charities, talents
and charms endeared her to us all.
	Resolved—That we tender our love and sym-
pathy to the bereaved, especially to the dear
husband and children, may the spirit of conso-
lation, peace, and comfort attend them in this
hour of affliction.
	Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the Relief Society Record and a copy
sent to the bereaved, also'a copy to the Ex-
ponent.
	“And you shall shortly know that lengthened
		breath,
Is not the sweetest gift God sends his friend,
And that sometimes the sable pall of death,
Conceals the fairest boon His love can send.
If we could push ajar the gates of life,
And stand within, and all God’s working see, 
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
And for each mystery could find a key.
We know that her trials are oe’r,
	Weep not that her race is run.
God grant we may rest as calm,
When our work, like her’s is done.
		Naomi R. Theobald, President.
		M. A. Davis, Secretary.
Hinckley, Millard Co.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	To the Memory of a noble mother in Israel,
Sister Hannah Ann Dubois Dibble wife of Philo
Dibble, who died in Springville,Utah, Oct. 28th,
1893, aged 85 years 2 months and 28 days, was
born in Pedrick Town, Salem Co, New Jersey.
Embraced the Gospel in Philadelphia in 1839,
passed through the persecutions and privations

[Column 2]
of the Saints with her husband; was a member of
First Relief Society in Nauvoo being recommend-
ed thereto by the Prophet Joseph Smith. She
was also the only person present when Patriarch
Joseph Smith Sen’r blessed his sons; gathered to
Utah with the Saints in 1851, was a faithful mem-
ber of the Relief Society in Springville and when
the Ward was divided became a member of the
1st Ward Relief Society where she resided; al-
though too feeble to take an active part therein.
She manifested the utmost patience during her
painful illness of 12 weeks; and:
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called her
home as a shock of corn fully ripe, therefore:
	Resolved—That we the members of the Relief
Society emulate her noble example, her un-
swerving integrity, her cheerfulness under trying
circumstances and her patient resignation to the
will of her Heavenly Father.
	Resolved—That we hold her memory sacred
and imitate her amiable and patient disposition 
and her many virtues.
	Resolved—That we present a copy of these Re-
solutions to her bereaved family, also that they
be recorded in the Record Book of the 
Society, and a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EX- 
PONENT for publication.—COM.


THE VIAVI OFFICES
	Are removed to the Ricketts Block— 
Corner State and 3rd, South Sts. Salt
Lake City. Suffering women will do, well
to investigate this remedy, as it is fully
proven to be a cure for diseases of wo-
men. Send for a Health Book. 
		DUNFORD'S
Have the Cheapest and Best Lines of
SHOES and SLIPPERS
		In the City.
New Store.	57 S. Main St.

	R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail
	Cash House.
	R.K.THOMAS
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
		POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St. Salt Lake City.

MAGGIE C. SHIPP, M. D.
Will commence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing about the
middle of October.
	Office, 34 East 5th South.
		Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VoL. 22. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1893. 			No 9.


CONTENTS:
	Woman’s Suffrage Column—The Balot for Wo-
men—S. A. Boyer—The Annual Convention of
the W. S. A.—Maggie Bassett. Ladies’ Semi-
monthly Meeting—Lydia D. Alder. Mexican
Items—S. T. Brimhall. Some Women’s Lives—
S. E. L. R. S. Reports. Health for Women. A
Letter to the Ladies. Obituaries.
	Editorial.—A Few Suggestions. Editorial
Notes. Three Quarters of a Century.
	Poetry.—River, Field and Sky—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. Thanksgiving—E. R. Ship.


[Column 1]
RIVER, FIELD AND SKY.

Once, far away, a river ran 
	Adown a rocky glen,
It sprang from field of ice and snow
	To bless the homes of men, 
And all the rugged hills were clothed 
	With branches broad and fair,
Festooned with many a clinging vine
	And blossoms sweet and rare,
While underneath, new flowers looked up
	To the bright skies of June, 
And little birds sang choruses
	Aye! Every throat atune.

Adown the glen two straying went,
	That day they each one knew
The silent charm the landscape lent
	And, closer round it grew,
’Till one grown freer, sudden spoke,
	Heedless of all beside—
‘‘O, I have loved you all these years,
	And shall, while I abide.”

Like sudden light amid the dark,
	The truth upon his face;
It blessed the rural solitude 
	With grand and tender grace,
And like a token sacred, sweet, 
	Unlooked for yet possessed,
She took the jewel, love, he gave, 
	And hid it in her breast.
And then beside that river bright
	They listened to its song,
Like silver flashing in the sun
	The swift waves danced along;
They seemed to answer to her thoughts—
	‘‘Will he be true alway?”
For every ripple sang at once
	“Forever as today.”

They walked adown the level field
	The moonlight over all;
From out the blooming hedge they heard
	The young birds chirp and call,
And darkening rows of corn shook out 
	Their tassels and their floss,
And rustled all their shining blades
	Like swords that flash across; —
O, all the air was like perfume,
	And silence sweeter yet
Had buried all the jars of day
	When night with twilight met.

They paused, he looking on her face,—
	She, looking to the sky
As though to read some omen there
	Where silv’ry clouds swept by,
And saw—a star fall shining down,

[Column 2]
	Then swift from left to right,
Another shot athwart its track—
	A cross! before her sight.

Again, beside that river bright
	The lady walked alone, 
The autumn tints were on each leaf
	And flower and bird were flown.
‘‘O, river, thou didst hear his words
	That radiant summer day,
Give me an omen: Loves he yet?
	For he is far away.”
That cruel river—(’twas not strange, 
	It sprang from ice and snow.)
It seemed to answer “loves some one.”
	And sped on and away.

The lady walked within her room;
	Her day had turned to night.
She slept and dreamed, a bird sang clear,
	She woke, the sun shone bright,
“O, happy token! stars may fall 
	And rivers dry may run,
But thou art constant, thou art like
	The ever faithful one.”

And while she heard afar
	(Faint music to her ear)
Swift hoof-beats. Who rode so but he?
	And now ’mid Christmas cheer 
He enters ’neath the portals high, 
	They came to bring her word;
O, Christmas Morn! thy tidings are
	The sweetest ever heard.

Go name all bright streams that ye know
	That flow toward the sea;
Go name all fields beneath the stars
	Wherever they may be;
Yet ye shall never, never guess;
	Where’er your thoughts may fly,
Where sang the waves, where, fell the stars.
	No, no one but my love and I.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Nov. 20,1893.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

Auckland, N. Z., Nov. 30.—The first election
in New Zealand under the female suffrage law
resulted favorably to the government. The wo-
men voted in large numbers, supporting mainly
the candidates who professed Christianity and
favored temperance.


[Column 1]
THE BALLOT FOR WOMEN.
	THE inconsistency of opinion, of which
many people have been possessed, that wo-
man is not in need of the ballot, is rapidly
becoming a thing of the past. What is
dearer to every true American than the
right to exercise his voice at the polls? And
if we stop to reason for a moment, what is
there to deter woman from this inherent
desire? It is not because she is incapable of
understanding the questions at issue, nor
because she cannot appreciate the ability
of the nominees. I know the assertion is
made that the polls are not decent places for
women, and that they are corrupting. No
place is decent from which women are long
excluded, and if they are corrupting, men
had better quit voting, some are fearful that
it will lead to a dangerous intimacy between

[Column 2]
the sexes. There could be no political
intimacy exist, that would exceed that
which already exists between the school
Superintendent and his teachers, the Mer-
chant and his clerks etc. In an Oriental
country a Physician can only prescribe for a
woman by thrusting her arm from behind a
curtain. If we prefer Turkish institutions
we had better go and live where they pre-
vail, but if our own system is the best let it
be consistent with itself and our constitu-
tion, which is a constitution of the people,
for, and by them, so that if we bring this
down to its technical meaning it is not a
government of the people, unless women
are classed outside, for there are more than
ten millions that have no voice in the mak-
ing of our laws, and they are the most
sober and religious portion of American
people. It is assumptuous in men to think
that their interest and affection for women
will lead them to just and wise legislation.
	Their desires may be, and I believe they
are perfectly in accord with the way they
would like to see them treated. But men
have not the intuitive knowledge of grasp-
ing the many reforms which woman can
see is neccessary to bring about a better
state of society; to protect the weak against
the encroachments of the more favored.
As the cooperation of the sexes is necessary
to people a world, so is mutual cooperation
on their part necessary to perpetuate its
virtue, to regulate its tone and to elevate na-
tional character. I am not superstitious
to the extent, that it will right all the
wrongs of women any more than it has
righted all the wrongs of men, but it is the
golden gate to every opportunity, and pres-
cisely the same advantage it gives to one
sex it will give to another. Look at the
interest women have exhibited during the
past few years, since the people divided on
Party lines. Must we ridicule this interest
and assure women that it is only for men
and boys, when they attain their majority,
to relegate to themselves this pleasurable
interest? I fear such comments would be
received with a degree of contempt, I
realize that the mere mention of the
political rights of women in the minds of
many, would indicate that the home would
be left desolate. But woman would not be
true to her instincts of wife and mother, if
the instincts of maternity, of domesticity,
are not persuasive enough to keep them in
the truest sense women, it is the most ser-
ious defect yet discovered in the Divine or-
der of nature; nor should women be de-
barred from this privilege, because the
majority are careless as to its advantages.
It is stated that eight hundred thousand
men did not vote last year. This is no ar-
gument that the rest should be deprived of
this right. Doubtless there were many
slaves who prefered to remain slaves, was
that an argument against freedom? Sup-
pose there is a majority of the women of
this State when it becomes one, does not
wish to vote, is that a reason for depriving
one woman who is taxed of her equal
representation? Or one innocent person of
the equal protection of his life and liberty.
We want no compulsion, like those Old


New England laws, which fined every voter
who did not vote. Men need not fear that
women will become defeminized, nature is
wise on those points. What ever their sex
incapacitates women from doing they will
not do, and their relation to society will not
be disturbed. It is useless for men to
decry the evils of the ballot for women, we
are assured of its power, and of the benefits
accruing from a national adoption of its
principles.
					S. A. Boyer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


The Annual Convention of the W. S.
A. of Salt Lake Co. for the election of of-
ficers was held in the 13th, Ward Assembly
Rooms, Tuesday afternoon Nov. 21st, 1893.
President Nellie Taylor in the chair, opened
by singing, "Oh, ye fair ones,’’&c. Prayer
by Vice President E. McFarlane, continued
by singing "Do what is right.” Roll
called, the minutes of the previous meeting
were not read. The treasurer’s report for
the year was read and accepted. The
election of officers for the ensuing year was
then carried out, by ballot, Mrs. E.
McFarlane was chosed by unanimous vote for
President, Mrs. A. W. Eardley as 1st, Vice
President, Mrs. E. M. Price as 2nd, Vice
President, Mrs. Julia Druce as 3rd, Vice
President, Mrs. Mary E. Irvine as Sec’y
and Mrs. E. McCune as Assistant Secretary
and Mrs. E. W. Hyde as Treasurer. Mrs.
Nellie Little as chairman of the Executive
Board and Mrs. Mary P. Silver, Mrs. A. W.
Grant, Mrs. E. Lyon, Mrs. M. Holt as mem- 
bers of the board. A vote of Thanks was
tendered to the retiring officers, Mrs. E.
Mc Farlane took the chair. Territorial
President E. B. Wells made some very en-
couraging remarks, touched upon the
questions that were important to suffragists.
Mrs. Nellie Taylor, Dr. E. S. Barney, Mrs.
C. C. R. Wells each made a few interesting 
remarks.
    The membership fee was lowered by
 unanimous vote to 25 cts. a year, with privi-
lege to call for 10 cts. donation. Meeting
stood adjourned ’til the third Tuesday in
December.
			     MAGGIE BASSETT Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms, 
Nov. 4th, 1893. President Z. D. Young
presiding, sang “O, happy souls who pray”
&c. Prayer by Sister Mary P. Silver,
further sang “For the strength of the hills’,
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
President Young said she was grateful to
be here today. ‘‘I look upon this organiza-
tion as near the school of the Prophets. I
have never seen a day in my life, that I
have not been thankful that I am a woman.
The man has the Priesthood, but he has to
fight the battle but our labor is to bear and
mould the souls of men. President Young
said when women are living their religion
they can wash and anoint the sick. What-
ever comes to us sisters, let us acknowledge
the hand of God in all things, then we will
be lifted up above the trials  of life. I trust
my sisters that all will speak a few words.”
	Sister B. Smith, said she did not often
meet here as she had many duties owing to
working in the Temple. Also spoke of the 
Deseret Hospital being in need of a little
help. Gave much good counsel and
prayed God that we might all be faithful
and be prepared to dwell with the sanctified.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. Stevenson read a note from
President  E. S. Taylor excusing herself
from coming today, as her daughter needed
her help a few days, also said that our
loved President Horne was better, although
she could not meet with us yet.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox made some excel-
lent remarks thought we would need all
the faith we could get to bear the trials that
are coming, bore testimony of the good
spirit in the Temple, and prayed that we
might all be saved in the Celestial Kingdom.
	The sisters sang “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning,’’ &c. After which Sister
Gibson spoke a few encouraging words and
bore her testimony. Sister Jane James,
said many encouraging things but felt that
she could not express her feelings. Said
she hoped light would yet reach her people
and prayed that her son, might be faithful
and go to them, as the Prophet Joseph
had predicted. She then spoke in tongues,
Sister Paul giving the interpretation.
	Sisters sang “How blessed is the day,”
&c. A sister in the congregation said the
gift of tongues had been in answer to her
prayer, that we might have the gift today.
May we all be faithful.
	President Young then called on Sister
Lydia D. Alder to read the first lecture on
faith, in the Doc. & Cov. after which Sister
Alder bore her testimony.
	Susan Larson, of the 8th, Ward made
some good remarks and asked the prayers
of the sisters in behalf of the late Sister
Fletcher’s daughter who is sorely afflicted.
Sister Windsor, bore an excellent testimony
and gave many instructions, and closed by
praying for more faith and more of the
Holy Spirit to lead us back to our Father’s
Kingdom. Sister E. Brown also spoke
well and bore a faithful testimony.
	President Young desired the sisters to
read the lectures in the Doc. & Cov. also
asked the Associations to keep up their
Annual Meetings. Thanked God for all
the blessings received here today, and
closed by asking the blessings of God up-
on us. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Sang Doxology. Benediction by Sister B.
Smith.
	LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
MEXICAN ITEMS.

	WELL it has been raining very hard for a
long time, yes, at timesalmost pouring and
I suppose that on account of my long
silence that my friends thought I had
been drowned or been washed away by
the turbulent streams, but on the con-
trary, I have been quite safe, and busy
studying my lesson,‘well,” some one might
ask, “what have you learned?” “Well I
have learned to a certain extent, so far as
my weak nature is able to comprehend, to
trust in God, and it is the sweetest and
dearest lesson that I have ever learned.
Perhaps some of our dear brethren and
sisters in more favored and civilized places
wonder it our Father in Heaven would
stoop to care for these poor exiles in this
far off land, but it is so, and here in this
place I have learned the sweetest lessons
that the Gospel has ever taught us.  Here
under a lonely roof I have had an op-
portunity of peeping into the lives of
of some of the chosen servants of God,
for instance Nephi one of the forefathers of
this race by whom we are surrounded,
he learned to suffer and put his trust in
God, he was taken through the soul refining

[Column 2]
experience of having to leave friends,
home, riches, and all that he possesed for
the knowledge that he had of his doing the
will of Heaven, and after having made
those sacrifices was called to run the risk of
his own life, and commit a deed that his
own soul revolted against, knowing that he
was doing his duty.  It must have taken a   
great deal of faith on his part, he being a
tender hearted man to raise enough courage
to cut off Laban’s head. Then afterwards
in traveling with his brethren he was con-
stantly blamed for believing that he was
doing right, and his sorrows were great and
his life in danger constantly, on account of
the unbelief of his own brethren, yet his
faith never wavered, but was always firm,
and he said, 11 Nephi 4—24, “O, Lord I
have trusted in thee, I will trust in thee
forever, I will not put my trust in the arm
of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that
putteth his trust in the arm of flesh.  Yea,
cursed is he who putteth his trust in man,
or maketh flesh his arm.”
	His soul was continually poured out in
humble prayer, in passing through affliction,
his life was a continual feast of the divine
blessings and knowledge of his Redeemer.
And such will be the lives of all those who
have come here to the remnants of his
posterity,if their trust is firm in the Lord,
if they find out his will and do it, the rain
may fall and the winds blow, but if their
house is built upon a rock, the rock of
revelation, it will stand the storm.
	God never has called any person, or set
of persons to preform a mission upon this
earth, without having taken them through
many trials, in order to purify and prepare
them for the work.  Even our Savior
withstood the temptations and wiles of
Satan,before entering upon his labor of love
among the human family, and if we read
the lives of all faithful men and women we
find that sometime in their lives they had
passed through a course of trying ordeals
and therein had learned their lesson of
faith.  Those who are determined to do
right will be chastened and tried until they
will acknowledge the hand of God in every
thing, even in their deepest sorrow thank
Him for blessings, thank him for trials, and
suffering, it will be then and only then that
we will not be tried, for if we watch closely
we will find out behind every cloud there is
a sunlight, behind every sorrow a blessing,
and blessed be the Giver of sorrow and
trial, of joy and blessing. How shall we
appreciate friends, home, parents, without
having been deprived of those blessings,
but we will learn in the end that one
blessing we never have been deprived of,
and that is the tender watch-care of our
eternal Heavenly Father.
	S. T. BRIMHALL.
Colonia de Juarez Mexico, Oct. 11th, 1893.


BLACK FRUIT CAKE—Cream together one
pound of brown sugar and one pound of
butter. Beat the yolks and whites of ten
eggs separately. Add the yolks with one
pound of seeded raisins, one pound of cur-
rants, and half a pound of sliced citron,
one-third of an ounce each of ground cin-
namon and nutmeg, and one-quarter ounce
each of ground mace and cloves, also one
pound of flour that has been slightly
browned. Add the whites of the eggs.
Mix and beat well. Turn into a mould and
bake for five hours in a moderate oven.
Before using, ice and decorate with candied
fruit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THANKSGIVING.

As light o’er the snowy-capped mountain,
	Brings promise of glorious day,
Our hearts over-flow as a fountain, 
	To Father our tributes we pay,
We give praise, and fervent thanksgiving,
	For all of Thy mercies so rare'
E’en for the privilege of living
	On this earth so lovely and fair.
We thank Thee for life, and its duties,
	The grandeur of being on earth,
For this world, and its marvelous beauties,
	Sweet flowers, bright sunshine, and mirth.
We thank Thee O Father for music,
	Expressing the language of hearts.
For poetry, painting,and sculpture
	And all the inventions and arts.
We thank thee for homes, food and raiment,
	For kindred, for friendship, and love—
Though we are but poor humble claimants,
	We praise Thee our Father above!
We thank thee for pain, and for trials,
	And waging of elements drear
With even life’s stern self-denials,
	And melting of hearts with a tear.
We thank thee for all oflife’s'seasons,
	For springtime, for winter and rain;
We know that in time all thy reasons
	To our wond’ring souls will be plain, 
We thank thee for hopes Thou hast given
	Of a life immortal and free, 
That beautiful respite in Heaven, 
	When again we come unto Thee.
	E.R.SHIPP.


[Column 1]
SOME WOMEN'S LIVES.

	THERE is a strange hunger in the average
female heart to be the one and only love of
some other heart. A God given instinct
no doubt, to make the monopoly of mar-
riage dear and desirable, but fatal if the
man be—as is often the case—selfish, need-
ing daily and systematic discipline;
tyrannical, requiring a little wise suppression
and deposing now and then; extravagant
needing constant lessons in economy, vain,
needing an occasional lesson in humility;
and the woman one of those poor, feeble
souls who meekly accept whatever is offered
and who will bear anything and everything
without a murmur rather than be found
fault with. A tender, sympathetic, self-
denying woman who deals with his follies
and faults gently and patiently, as she vain-
ly struggles to forget all the fond unrealized
dreams of her girlhood now so far behind
her; and feeling hopelessly in her inmost
heart that so far as her husband is concerned
the future holds naught of love or happi-
ness for her; feels with an icy pang a chill
sense of desolation and neglect, a
disappointment black as the murky clouds
which hide the blue of Heaven on a stormy
day; knows that her husband who has his
business acquaintances, his friends whom
he meets at the club and elsewhere is surely
growing away from her; that while she has
remained at home busy with household
duties and had grown rusty both in looks
and ideas, he has acquired the superficial
polish of the man of the world and has be-
come even more selfish, more egotistical
until he finally convinces her by continued
coldness and neglect that he is both weary
and ashamed of her. Oh! romantic idealist
with an impossible hero standing as the
type of all that lover and husband ought to
be in that bright fancy land which you

[Column 2]
imagine is the real earth upon which you
tread; how soon must the idol fall from his
pedestal into the dust and lie there degraded,
defaced; a thing to spurn with the foot and
put away with unfulfilled hopes and un-
realized dreams. Many and many a wife
who fulfills all her household duties faith-
fully who sits smiling conventional smiles by
her husband's side in public, live, the life
that honorable woman leads in this en-
lightened century, many and many a wife
looks back with a secret bitter smile to
those other days when she thought her
lord and master a hero, a noble champion,
who was always to be her lover and now!
	Many a neglected wife feels that same icy
chill; and such a pang is only the first of
many pangs which go on increasing until
they finally lose their power to sting so 
keenly; and the wife that meant to be so
patient, so loving and true becomes indiffer-
ent as to whether her husband spends his
evenings with her or elsewhere; oftentimes
finding herself glad that he is with her so
seldom. A strong-minded woman said to
me once: "Some women make so much of
trifles. Why, my husband is always out; 
and I'm sure I never fret over such a trifle,
and as for cards, provided he divides his
winnings with me I never think of object-
ing." And yet those very trifles are the
rocks on which many a poor woman's life
is wrecked.
"These trifles! Can it be they make or mar a
human life?
	Are souls as lightly swayed as rushes are,
By love or strife?
"Yea, yea! A look the fainting heart may break
	Or make it whole;
And just one word, if said for love's sweet sake
	May save a soul!"
	Memory brings before me to night, a fair,
young face, soft, confiding blue eyes and a
wealth of golden hair; now hidden under
a coffin lid; white their owner sleeps the
last sleep, the world forgotten, by the world
forgot. I saw her in her bridal robes when
she fondly imagined life held nothing but
sweets; that life, her life, would be one
long summer day; and I saw her agin
when she had proven the fallacy of it all-
had quaffed deep draughts of the bitter
waters of Marah, was again arrayed in her
bridal robes, but this time, she was the
bride of death. I well remember when
the first consciousness of her husband's cold-
ness and neglect began to dawn upon her.
She said no word uttered no complaint; but
the sweet face grew thin and pale, the
sweet blue eyes inexpressibly sad. Night
upon night she would sit alone watching
and waiting. Carriage after carriage would
roll by; sometimes one would stop and
then she would listen with intense eager-
ness expecting ever moment to hear his
step in the hall and then to see him enter
the room with his usual careless grace.
One night he came home even later than
usual had lost heavily at cards and had
been drinking. His wife was weeping
when he entered teh room. She was but a
girl in years, far away from relatives and
near friends and her "hour of trial" fast
approaching. To night a sense of utter
desolation, of intense loneliness seemed to
shut out every ray of light, of comfort.
Not one single glimmer pierced the black-
ness of the louds that were fast closing
about her. Vain were my attempts at
cousolation. Vain were the bright pictures
of a happy future with her babe. She
would only repeat in a weary despondent 
voice that spoke of bitter unshed tears. 

[Column 3]
	"You are very kind, dear friend and
mean well, but you do not understand. I
cannot tell you why or how but I know
life is over for me; and I am so tired, so tired,
that I am glad of it."
	As her husband entered the room he
laughed scornfully at her tears. For once
she made no effort to hide her grief. What
need? Had he not long since stripped the
veil from their miserable existance reveal-
ing the hollow shame in all its hideousness?
Neither did she offer any explanation when
he, coarsely and with assumed ignorance,
demanded the cause of her grief; not from
any definite reason but simply from a kind
of instinct that makes the sympathetic,
sensitive nature shrink from unfolding itself
to the touch of one that it feels is neither-
because her inmost being felt that he would
hear it with an antagonism that would jar
every fibre. There are so many ways of
letting the life out of a woman's heart
already faint from disappointment; and
for some moments he tried with a drunken
man's persistence to see how far his taunts
and sneers would exasperate the woman
whom he had promised to love, honor and
cherish; her continued silence only made
him angrier and he became for the time a
maniac. The face he turned round upon
her, the eyes blazing with wrath, the
cheeks pale with passion, the lips set was a
fearful face as he staggered to where his
wife stood; and placing both hands on her
shoulders he shook her roughly as he hissed
into her trembling ear these brutal words-
"You're a nice wife for a man to have!
always going around with a long, white
face to make people think you're an abused
woman. Bah! I tell you what it is Alice,
I'm just about sick of your whining and
crying and don't want any more of it.
Do you hear? I shall stay out just as late
as I want to and just as often; so you may
as well make the best of it. Why, there
were at least sixty men at the club to night; 
most of them married, and do you think
their wives sat up and met them with tears
and long faces? No, by—! and from
now, on, I want no more of it. Remember
that, will you?" And with another final
and emphatic shake he pushed her roughly
from him. Too much intoxicated to fully
realize what he was doing he was not aware
of the brutal force he used and neither of
them observing a footstool that stood near,
Alice fell over it striking her head heavily
against a chair before reaching the floor,
murmuring faintly, "Oh Charlie how could
you, when I loved you so?" She sank in-
to unconciousness. They were the last
words she ever spoke. For days she re-
mained unconscious and then the end came.
Never shall I forget the expression of
peaceful content that settled on the beauti-
ful face. Surely she had found rest and
the peace that passeth all understanding.
Of course, Charlie was very penitent and
apparently remorse—stricken for a time;
but yesterday I read in an eastern paper
that Charlie M. or as he was more familiar-
ly known ‘‘Bonnie Prince Charlie” was
about to lead to the Altar the beautiful
daughter of one of New York's richest
men. I wonder if Alice knows—or cares.
	S.E. L.


THE Isle of Man legislature has just en-
acted that duly qualified women shall, in
future, vote for the election to the House
of Keys, thus following, on more limited
lines, the example of New Zealand.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.	-
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as econd class matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY, 			DECEMBER 1, 1893.


[Column 1]
	A FEW SUGGESTIONS.
	
	THERE has been considerable agitation
on the Woman Suffrage subject in the Ter-
ritory of late, and there is likely to be more
in view of the prospect that we are perhaps
soon to have statehood, when it is firmly
believed and ardently desired by a large
majority of women citizens, that the ballot
so unjustly taken from those to whom it
had been given under the laws of the Ter-
ritory will be restored, with all the rights
and privileges pertaining thereto, making
men and women equal before the law.
	Because women are eligible to office does
not constitute them office-holders though
one might think it really did, listening to
the arguments brought to bear against it.
it is not such an easy matter for even men
to get a nomination, and after that to get
sufficient votes to elect them. Judging
from what we know of women they would
be much more likely to nominate a man, a
good man of course, and vote for him,
than one of their own sex consequently
women are in no danger of being elected
to any office for a long time to come. But
we hope and trust the agitation of these
political questions will continue, par- 
ticularly as it is decidedly educational in its
tendency, and that is what is needed. The
women of this Territory married and
single, should try to become somewhat
familiar with the laws of Utah, and the
political conditions as well, and not neglect
the Constitution and Declaration of In-
dependence which are really the foundation
on which the civil and judicial government
of the country is built. The laws affecting
women and their rights should be investi-
gated by them and see where they stand,
and determine in their own minds whether
they are satisfied with such a status or not;
Not accept things for granted without
knowing for themselves and like the wo-
man who had all the rights she wanted on
hearing that in her state a husband might
bequeathe his children away from the
mother, became very indignant and ex-
claimed “Why do not all the mothers cry
out against such a law?” The answer
given her was in part “People who do not
vote pay no attention to the laws until they
suffer from them.” The actual text of the
law was this.
	“Every person authorized by law to make a
will, except married women, shall have a right to
appoint by his will a guardian or guardians for
his children during their minority.”
	There is not in the statute the slightest
clause in favor of the mother, nor any

[Column 2]
limit to the power of the guardian, nor
any word of positive law to protect the
mother.
	We simply refer to this to show how lit-
tle women have been considered in legisla-
ting in the past. The time has come how-
ever when the higher education of women
has brought about many radical changes,
and many more are needed for the benefit
of both men and women, and it is our opinion
that the womanly and more humane element
if given expression at the ballot box and
eventually in the councils of the nation,
will have a salutary effect. Preparatory
work is always necessary in any important
undertaking and therefore we earnestly ad-
vise the women of Utah to study
systmatically, or until they adopt some
method converse together on political mat-
ters in their own locality, town, city or
county.
	In some of the counties during the past
two years very creditable work has been
done in clubs and in classes under the
auspices of the county or ward organiza-
tions. Do not be discouraged because only
a few will take hold, it is the few who scat-
ter the seed for the many. The farmer sows
a small quantity of seed grain, but he reaps
a large harvest, and that harvest feeds a
hungry multitude.
	In another issue of this paper will ap-
pear some items of the Conventions held
in Rich, Utah and Davis counties also
the meetings in Spanish Fork and Spring-
ville which were very interesting indeed.
At Spanish Fork the W. S. A. had a
sumptuous dinner prepared for all the
members of the Association in that flourish-
ing town, numbering if we recollect rightly,
one hundred and ten besides invited guests,
several from Provo, and from Salt Lake.
Mesdames Wells arid Richards Territorial
officers. At Springville the meeting was
exceedingly interesting; there were three
gentlemen on the program, the Mayor of
the City, the editor of the Springville
Independent and Mr. W. H. Kelsey of that
place. The President Mrs. S. A. Boyer
is a very enthusiastic worker in the cause
and has kept the association up to a high
standard notwithstanding many discourage-
ments and indifference which are always
hard to battle with.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion will be held
in the Fourteenth ward assembly rooms, in
this city, on Friday, Dec. 15th, 1893, meet-
ings commencing at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m.
as usual. As this is an important time
and there is much need of relief among the
poeple in the several wards, it is ardently
desired by the presiding officers of the
society that there should be represent-
atives from each branch present to hear the 
instruction that is likely to be given in
reference to the care of the needy that there
may be no suffering among the people that
can he avoided. A cordial invitation is al-
so extended to all interested in this benevo-
lent work, and especially to the Presidency
of the Church, the presiding Bishops, the 
presidency of this Stake of Zion and the
Bishops of the several wards.
	WE had the pleasure recently of attending
the opening of Miss Maud May Babcock’s
School of Delsarte and Physical Culture in
the Social Hall in this City and of meeting
there her brother Dr W. W. Babcock, who

[Column 2]
in addition to assisting his sister in the
institution is also Resident Physician at St.
Mark’s New Hospital. During the exer-
cises on that occasion Dr. Babcock gave an
interesting talk, explaining, first a history
of the work of physical culture etc. from
the Greek period down, then took up the
work physiologically—the different systems,
physical examinations extant which
would be the basis of all the work—Miss.
Babcock also treated upon this and described
the apparatus which is all new and the
latest patents—1st, mentioned the pulley
weight system first discovered by Dr. D. A.
Sargent, now of Harvard University, th s
system covers about one hundred and fifty
different appliances, of which what is com-
monly know as the chest weight is most
important. These appliances are especially
useful as being adapted to the weakness of
the weak, and the strength of the strong,
and are essentially important, as they can be
used for the development and strength of
particular groups of muscles they have the
rowing machine, chest weight, bridle
stirrup and quarter circle; they have also
full Germam apparatus for German work,
horizontal and vaulting bar, traveling rings,
flying rings, small and large horizontal
parallel bars. Indian Clubs, iron and
wooden dumb bells, wands and rings in the
Swedish work they use all free-hand
gymnastics, except the climbing rope, be-
cause they consider that the most important,
the apparatus work being only accessory of
the measuring appliances, a complete anthro
pometric. Miss Babcock is assisted by Miss
Belle Salmon and Miss Mae Taylor both well
known in this City, and both attended the
summer school at Harvard this year. The
dressing rooms in the building are fitted up
entirely new, bath room has hot and cold
water (entirely new floor in the main hall)
platform nicely fitted up for office and elo-
cution work. On the evening of the open-
ing Miss Babcock recited “King Robert of
Sicily’’ with music by Miss Kate Romney,
Miss Mary Romney rendered a sweet selec-
tion her exquisite voice telling particularly
well on the high notes, and Mr. Hugh
Dougall gave “The Holy City.’’ He
certainly has a magnificent voice and gives
fine expression to the language of the song.
Miss Babcock’s terms of tuition are
reasonable.


THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.
	ON the 20th of November a very success-
ful party, a sort of ovation was given to
President M. Isabella Horne by a com-
mittee of ladies’ and the officers of the
branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake
County, it was the seventy-fifth anniver-
sary of her birthday. Mrs Horne has lived
three quarters of a century and merits by
her faithfulness and endeavors for good, in
the interests of the women of the Territory
and of the Church, the utmost honor and
appreciation of those with whom she has
labored so long and diligently.
	The party was held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms in the afternoon. The
room was decorated with flags and banners,
a handsome carpet and easy chairs in the
centre of the hall, and on the stand and
platform were beautiful flowering plants
and palms and a large century plant fresh
from the green house, besides bouquets in
vases artistically arranged, and to
Mrs. Horne it was a perfect surprise until
about noon of the day; her family however
were aware of the preparations that were


[column 1]
in progress, and of course joined with the
sisters in the celebration. The one draw-
back to the pleasure of all was the absence
of Brother Horne, who was really not well
enough to be present.
	The house was well filled with dear
friends and fellow-laborers, the First Presi-
dency of the Church seated upon the stand,
also President Lorenzo Snow, Apostle
Franklin D. Richards and Heber J. Grant,
the Presiding Bishops of the Church, Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, Counselor C. W.
Penrose, Bishop George H. Taylor and
some other brethren, occupied seats of hon-
or, but the company were mostly ladies.
	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor Counselor to
President M. I. Horne in the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion, presided during the
exercises and took charge of the program,
Mrs. Helen M. Whitney the other Counse-
lor was not able to attend, which was much
regretted. President Zina D. H. Young
and her Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith were in attendance,
and many other representitive women.
	Sister Taylor made a few appropriate re-
marks greeting the assembly of her friends
and congratulating Sister Horne in a grace-
ful way.
	The exercises opened with prayer by
President Joseph F. Smith, and singing “O,
my Father”.
	After which President Wilford Wood-
ruff addressed the assembly. He stated
that he never felt able to express his
thoughts in words when gathered among
the Saints of God, congratulated Sister
Horne and alluded to the many pleasant
associations with both Brother and Sister
Horne; “when he looked upon this assembly
especially the aged, he was glad some of
the Saints had lived to carry out the work,
while others had passed behind the vail, no
more interesting generation could have
been or ever had been; no greater dispen-
sation in fact than this one has ever been,
we have great blessings,’’again congratula-
ted Sister Horne on this day, her labors
had been great, while he said this of her,
he said it of others, the gathering called
to his mind the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum
and Brigham and John Taylor; referred to
his labors with them, and the coming of
the pioneers into this valley, recalled the
words of President Young when he came
into the valley, here he said we shall build
a Temple in Zion, said God bless Sister
Horne and her husband; and her children
will follow in their footsteps, thanked the
Lord that a mighty army of people, sons
and daughters was being raised up through
the principles of the order of God, blest the
assembly etc., the remarks of the President
were especially inspiring to all assembled
and will ever be treasured to encourage
those who are laboring in the Relief Society
in which he has always manifested the
deepest interest.
	President Zina D. H. Young after ad-
dressing herself to the First Presidency up-
on the stand and the President of the
meeting, heartily congratulated Sister
Horne, and rejoiced with her in the many
blessings the sisters had enjoyed; referred
to the day when Joseph the Prophet was
taken from us as the darkest day we had
ever seen, but while he was with the
people he had poured out blessings upon
blessings, revealed many things, turned the
key of knowledge, and opened up the
channel of communication with the hea-
vens. Sister Young was thankful to see so

[column 2]
many familiar faces, those who were en-
gaged in labors of love.
	President George Q. Cannon, appreciated
this opportunity very much, thought how-
delightful it would be if all our aged
brethren and sisters could have their birth-
days remembered, spoke of the hall as a
historic building, where many social parties
and reunions had been given; since coming
into the room many memories had crowded
into his mind,'some were pleasant others
were sorrowful, he had danced there more
than once and would like to again, if there
was an opportunity, Sister Horne he re-
membered used to be a very good dancer
and was now probably did not think she
had lost it all, thought our people did not
grow old as fast as some others, and re-
ferred to President Woodruff, Sister Horne
and President Snow, who seemed so young
and well-preserved. Alluded to his boy-
hood and association with Brother and
Sister Horne when they came to the valley
together also President Taylor’s family the
intimacy that existed between the two
families and gave some interesting incidents
of experience in those times; quoted Heber
C. Kimball’s remark concerning respect for
the aged when he said the Lord had more
respect for us than we had for one another,
the Lord had said “My aged servant
Joseph Smith,” (meaning Joseph Smith Sen.
father of the Prophet.) President Cannon
then commented upon the wonderful strides
the sisters had made the last few years,
bringing them forward before the public,
into spheres of usefulness, that opened be-
fore them, he then turned and address-
ing President Woodruff, said, it was one
of the things that impressed him very
greatly, he was pleased to see Sister Horne
take a leading part, an active part side by side
with others in this grand movement for the
elevation and enfranchisement of her sex,
was thankful she had lived to take so
prominent a part in the work for women,
“but you are His servants though you may
not bear the priesthood as we do, and yet
your spheres are enlarged and there is no
limit to your advancement,” felt to bless
Sister Horne whose birthday anniversary
we were celebrating, her husband and their
posterity, Brother Horne was a man faith-
ful and true and God would bless them and
their posterity after them.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HISTORICAL SKETCH.

(Of the life of Mrs. M. Isabella Horne.)

	ON this eventful day the Seventy Fifth
anniversary of the birth of our beloved
President, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, my
memory goes back over the vista of years
and I think of her as I first knew her. Al-
ways a faithful friend, a true saint, and a
steadfast, worker in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latterday Saints.
	President Horne had the honor of be-
longing to the Relief Society in Nauvoo,
which was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and had the  unspeakable pleasure
of listening to the melody of his voice,
giving instruction to the daughters of Zion,
he having turned the key for the redemption
of woman. Since that day she has had
the privilege of seeing her sister woman,
gradually climb upward and onward, un-
til now she holds a position of honor, by
the side of her brother man. Long and
oft has this friend of woman, raised her
voice in exhortation, instruction and love,
to her sisters, many of whom can testify,

[Column 2]
that from her lips has fallen the soft Words
that first caused them to think, and
inspired in them the desire to reach out to
more glorious possibilities of intelligence
and progress. Her instructions to maid
wife and mother, explaining the mission of
woman, in bearing the souls of men, her
duties to them, her home and her husband,
are beyond price. And may she yet live to
see all her desires in this respect fulfilled.
	When the Relief Society was reorganized
in these valleys after the move South in
1858, Mrs. Horne was chosen by Bishop A.
Hoagland, to preside over the Society in
the 14th, Ward. This occured on Dec. 12,
1867. Under her wise management the
Society prospered. The poor were relieved,
the distressed comforted, and yet means
gathered up in the treasury. After a time
the building known as “The Relief Society
Hall,” was erected. A granary and a
quantity of wheat was next added, and
blessings attended all the efforts of the
sisters.
	President Brigham Young, having great
confidence, in President Horne, placed on
her another important mission in the latter
part of the year 1869. This was known as
the Retrenchment movement. A meeting
was called in the 15th, Ward Relief Society
Hall—President Young met with and in-
structed the sisters in their duties in this
respect and many blessings were promised
them in their labors. This meeting was
adjourned to the 14th, Ward Assembly
Hall, where an organization was effected,
with Sister M. I. Horne as President with
Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Margaret T. Smoot,
Phebe W. Woodruff, Marinda W. Hyde
and Sarah M. Kimball as Counselors.
Lydia D. Alder was chosen as Secretary.
	Out of this organization, grew the 
regular Semi-monthly meetings of today
which have been held in the 14th Ward,
regularly ever since.
	President M. I. Horne was appointed to
preside over the Relief Society of this Stake
of Zion, Dec. 1877.
	In the month of November 1890, Pres’t.
Horne was elected President of the board,
of directors of the Woman’s Co-op store,
all of which positions she holds at the
present time, except that of President of
the Relief Society of the 14th, Ward, she
having resigned the position, and since
moved to the 18th, Ward.
	May her days be lengthened, that she-
may realize all her righteous desires, then
when her tired feet shall rest in the Golden 
City, may she enjoy the reward of the true
and faithful.


Affectionately Inscribed to Mrs. M . Horne on.
her Seventy Fifth Birthday.

How beautiful the sinking sun
	Sets in the darkening West;
’Mid fiery clouds of red and gold  
	it slowly goes to rest.
The day has been a weary one,
	Mayhap so full of care—
Now soothingly the shadows fall,
	And rest breathes everywhere.
The morn was full of promise—
	The noon the battle brought,
The evening is so glorious—
	With blessings ever fraught.
So life goes down at even
	Like to the setting sun—
The day of battle over—
		The laurels fairly won.


Then comes the bright to-morrow
	The sun shines forth again— 
Earth’s children rise to labor, 
	Their blessings to obtain,
And on life’s fair to-morrow
	The great Millennial day, 
May we all meet in Heaven
	Whence none will ever stray.
But with the blest Redeemer,
	And Father good and true
May we walk the fields Elysian 
	Each beauty ever new.
Loved sister, friend and mother 
	May we who’ve sought on earth
To live the life Celestial
	Receive a Heavenly birth.
Lovingly,
	LYDIA D. ALDER


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, sang with
fine expression and in clear “melodious
voice that beautiful song, “In Old Madrid,”
which was thoroughly appreciated by all
present. Prof. Clive kindly consented to
play the accompaniment, though he could not
stay to enjoy the company afterwards.


[Column 1]

M. I. HORNE’S SEVENTY-FIFTH
BIRTHDAY NOV. 20, 1893.

	"THE aged woman likewise, that they
be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not
false accusers, not given to much wine, 
teachers of good things;
	"That they may teach the young women
to be sober, to love their husbands, to love
their children,
	"To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home,
good, obedient to their own husbands, that
the word of God be not blasphemed."
Titus, chapt. 2, verses 3, 4, and 5.

Thus anciently, were holy women taught,
	By Christ’s Apostles, great, inspired men;
Today are glimpses of those lessons taught;
	Apostles, Prophets teach the same again.
In this last time, now more than fifty years
	Hath woman’s true position been defined
By God’s appointed servants, Prophets, Seers,
	And Revelators of His will and mind.
How can we praise our Father, God, enough,
	For blessing us with this grand sisterhood?
To aid each other when the way is rough,
	To find no pleasure but in doing good.
To love and help our husbands on in life;
	To love and teach our children righteousness;
None to accuse, make peace instead of strife;
	True women everywhere, no more, no less.
Making each home the dearest, happiest place,
	Kin to the Heavenl homes we seek above;
That every child may sweetest lessons trace,
	From father’s counsel kind, and mother’s love.
I mentioned fifty years, How few remain
	Of that first organized Relief Society,
To whom the Prophet, Joseph Smith, made plain,
	Their place and how to fill it with propriety.\
One of those few, today is Seventy-five;
	Again, our Father, God, thy name we praise.
That Mary Isabella Horne is yet alive,
	With pow’r among us still her voice to raise.
How often that dear voice to us imparts
	Lessons of wisdom for our home affairs,
Teaching us how to touch our children’s hearts,
	And make them partners in our household
	cares.
With Zina, Bathsheba, and other few,
	Teaching the younger women holy truths,

[Column 2]
Which Joseph taught at Kirtland and Nauvoo,
	Sweet lessons’ which the wearied being soothes
For one, I often wish that I could be
	The maker of a home like Sister Horne’s;
So orderly, from envious strife so free.
	Like a bright bed of roses with no thorns.
Yet, time has been when thorns her heart did
	pierce,
And noxious weeds grew round her, tall and
	thick;
And storms have beaten on her, cold  and fierce,
	Calling for vig’rous action, brave and quick.
How is it, thorns and weeds are cleared away
	Clouds have dispersed, the blast’s wild voice,
	is dumb?
She simply learned God’s mandates to obey,
	Has triumphed, and those ills are overcome.
’Tis good, with Sister Horne to celebrate
	This Anniversary of her blessed birth;
The victories she has gained to contemplate,
	Her lessons to recall, of priceless worth.
And then, to forward look, into that realm
	Of many mansions, where we hope to land;
In this life, finding nought that can o’erwhelm,
	No tests nor trials we cannot withstand.
To think, in that fair region of the blest,
	How good, how beautiful, sometime, to meet
Prsicilla, Persis. Dorcas, and the rest—
	The former Sisterhood with ours complete.
And then, I doubt not, we shall turn and say,
	We're glad that we were privileged to be
	born,
To learn and labor in this Latter-day,
	With our beloved and faithful M. I. Horne.
	L. Lula Greene Richards.


[Column 1]

A TRIBUTE.

[By Mrs. E. B. Wells.]

	IN thinking of the long life of our dearly
beloved mother in Israel whose anniversary
of three quarters of a century we celebrate
today, one scarcely knows whether to look
backward at the chapter of events so full of
interest, historical and personal, or to look
forward with prophetic gaze into the mystic
vista of the ever thrilling future, and
calculating the manifold labors so nobly
achieved foretell that which is sure to be
the positive result of the work already so
far accomplished, that the reward is near at
hand. Even now the fruits of the harvest
season are beautifully ripe,and radiant with
promise of a golden fruition. But for one
brief moment we will take a retrospective
glance. 
	In a cottage by the sea, on a chilly
November day such as this perhaps, or
mayhap in one of those dense fogs that
are common in England at this season of
the year, the news that a child was born,
"only a girl" not much thought of it those
days, would not be very thrilling, and the
mother herself could scarce have dreamed
beforehand of all that we assembled here
today are conscions of; nor did she realize
then as we do now, who have the knowledge
of the Gospel of a pre-existence, where the
little one came from so fresh and pink and
rosy or what her mission here on earth was
likely to be. How tenderly she would
have reared this little stranger had she
known but half that would  befall her, what
her destiny, her life-work, how wide her
sphere, how grand her possibilities. These
were all unkown, locked in the bosom of
mysterious nature's living drama. But to
many of us, the living panorama is un-
furled. We know how crossing the mighty

[Column 2]
ocean when only a child, she had those
wonderful experiences that come with a
sea voyage in a sailing vessel, and also the
life in a new country that is full of strange
incidents, and is of necessity partically
educational.
	Like other young women too of 
all ages and times she fell in love, hav-
ing met an interestng young farmer at a
religious gathering a camp meeting, the
friendship begun soon ripened into an
intimacy that resulted in marriage about
two years after; a union which has proved
such a complete and happy one that we see
them even today as much like lovers as
husband and wife: the golden wedding
celebrated when fifty years had passed was
a rare event and now when the frost of
four score years have come to the bride-
groom, and three quarters of a century
to the once youthful bride, we find them as
handsome and as happy in the family rela-
tion as when they first took possession of
each other, and the little farm, home  in
Canada. Yes even more so, for the olive
branches that grew one by one, and two
by two around their hearthstone, have
grown to magnificent proportions, and two
or three generations of these, now crown
the lives and cluster round the hearts of
this venerable couple, whose days have
been so full of blessing, and of good works,
and whose evening of life is so glorious
with rosy light and glowing prommise.
What shall we say, what can we say more
than this, that we who are assembled here
today sahite you—greet you as those
who after a long and adventurous voyage
upon the changeful sea of life, are safely
resting in the haven of Zion ready even
now at this ripe age, to go forward at the
call of duty whenever and wherever the
wise Father, through his servants here on
earth may designate.
	That we love this Reverend mother is
apparent, there is no need to tell her so in
words, that she merits the love of the
daughters of Zion, of the whole house of
Israel is too well known to need repeating.
and in conclusion may our sister love as a
band of women workers be always true,
and our union strong and steadfast as the
everlasting hills 'mong which we dwell,
and may we never grow weary of the
works of charity, philanthropy, and pro-
gress in which we have been so long
engaged,and one of the foremost among the
illustrious women of our age and time will
ever stand the name of her whose birthday 
anniversary we celebrate today,  MARY
ISABELLE HORNE
	President Horne explained how she had
been affected by the honors shown her and
the many expressions of love and esteem
from those who had spoke, how glad she
was to see her fellow laborers gathered there
the tried and true ones, and to be honored
with the presence of the First Presidency of
the Church, she had not the language to
express how grateful she was to her 
Heavenly Father and to her friends for this
tribute, spoke of her pleasure in laboring
with those associated in the Relief Society
and hoped to deserve all that had been said
of her and that we all might continue to
labor together or even more diligently in
the future. 
	Sister Horne seemed greatly overcome
by the many manifestations of love and 
esteem expressed on every side. 
	At the close of the exercises Mrs. Taylor
who had presided with grace and dignity
during the afternoon, thanked the audience


for their attention, the honor they had
shown by their presence, congratulated
Sister Horne, and expressed her pleasure
in being associated with her in many labors
of love and charity, and the program closed
with benediction by President Lorenzo
Snow. Daintily prepared refreshments
were served to the entire company and
general conversation and greetings were
soon followed by adieus as evening ap-
proached.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SANPETE RTAKE.
The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the
Ephraim School House, September 22nd, 
1893. President M. A. P. Hyde presiding,
Conference opened with singing, “Lord we
come before thee now.” Opening prayer
by Bishop C. C. N. Dorius. Singing ‘‘Re-
deemer of Israel.” Statistical and
Financial report of the Relief Society of
Sanpete Stake, and the minutes of the last
conference were read and approved.
President M. A. P. Hyde hoped we
would have a time of rejoicing in our con-
ference, ‘‘Do not partake of the spirit of
the world but try and draw them to us, so
they can partake of the spirit of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ.”
The branches of the Relief Society of
Fountain Green, Moroni, Ephraim, and
Spring City were represented by their
presidents, all testifying of the good work
that is being done by the sisters.
Counselor Sarah Peterson said she
thought the sisters were doing well and did 
not think they could do any better. Spoke
at some length in regard to the storing
of wheat. Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt 
Lake City, referred to the storing of grain
and the counsel of President Young to
the sisters; also of the respect that was
shown to the Presidency of the Church in
attending the World’s Fair. Considered
the meeting held by our sisters in Chicago
and the visit of the Presidency had re-
moved a great deal of prejudice against us
as a people. Spoke in regard to the
World’s Fair. The impression that was
made on the people of the world at the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. meet-
ing s at Chicago, were very important.
Sister Elmina S. Taylor Territorial
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt
Lake City, rejoiced in the organization of
the Relief Society. ‘‘President Young
was inspired when he told the sisters to
store up grain for a time of famine. This
is a time of progress among the women of
the world and we do not want to be behind
them. The Relief Society is a blessing
throughout the land. May the Lord bless
us, that our meetings may be full of in-
struction.” Singing ‘‘Come, come ye
Saints.” Benediction by Bishop L. S.
Anderson.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—President M. A.
P. Hyde presiding; singing ‘‘Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
Prayer by Bishop Anderson. Singing,
‘‘Our God we raise to thee.” The two
branches of Manti Relief Society were
represented by their presidents as being in
a good condition, Counselor Minerva W.
Snow said: ‘‘My feelings I could not des-
cribe, the joy that filled my heart to hear
from the sisters of the prosperity of Zion,
It is very encouraging to have our brethren

[Column 2]
meet with us in our conference. Let us as
sisters in Zion take no praise unto our-
selves, but be humble and give the praise
unto our Father in Heaven, be thankful
for the blessings we enjoy daily. Let us
be patient and humble in our trials and the
Lord will bless us. Zion is arising and her
light is beginning to shine. Pray to our
Heavenly Father that he will keep our sons
and daughters in purity, that they may be-
come shining lights in the Kingdom of God’’
Counselor Sarah Peterson spoke concerning
hard times but said, “I think it is a good
time for we have plenty to eat and wear.
Advised the sisters to subscribe for the
EXPONENT. Sister Taylor said the
work of the Relief Society is a great and
glorious one. It is no good for us to
belong to any association unless we perform
our duties. Do we go to the Relief Society
meetings to gossip and talk about our
neighbors and the Priesthood? No, we go
there to be taught in the gospel. The
brethren are beginning to realize that wo-
men are a help in the kingdom of God I
thank God for the faithfulness and bravery
of our sisters through their troubles and
trials. Sustain your presidents and coun-
selors by your prayers. Also Sister Zina
D. Young and her counselors.
Be good wives and mothers and watch
your children, for Satan is trying to lure
them from purity and virtue. Ask God to
help you to know your duty and to do it.
Sister Wells spoke at some length on the
Silk Industry. Advised the sisters to plant
mulberry trees and raise cocoons.
Gave a description of some of the exhibits
at the World’s Fair. Referred briefly to
the different meetings of the women at
Chicago. “It is the express wish of Sister
Young that the branches of the Relief
Society should meet twice a month at
least.”
Sister Taylor desired the brethren and
sisters to teach their children their mother
tongue, those of different nationalities.
President M. A. P. Hyde thanked the
sisters for the information that they had
given ns. Sister Mary Petersen was sus-
tained as Stake Treasurer. Conference
adjourned for three months. Singing “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Benediction by Brother John Schofield.
MARY ANN FRANTZEN, Sec.


[Column 1]
     HUNTSVILLE WEBER CO.
	Minutes of a meeting of the Relief Society
of Huntsville Ward, held August 24th,
1892.
	There were present on the stand Apostle
F.D. Richards, Bishop David Mckay,
President Zina D. H. Young, her counselors
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith;   Jane S.
Richards; Ward President Eliza A. Tracy,
with her Counselors; Stake Secretary,
Mattie Cannon, and others.
	The object of the meeting being to re-
ceive instruction and to lay the corner stone
of a Hall for the Relief Society of this
Ward, to hold its meetings and transact its
business in.
	President Tracy called the meeting to
order when Bishop Mckay offered prayer.
	After stating the object of the meeting
President Tracy requested Sister Jane S.
Richards to address the meeting, who ex-
pressed her great pleasure at meeting with
the Saints on so interesting and important
an occasion as the laying of the corner
stone of a building for the use and benefit
of the ladies who constitute the Relief

[Column 2]
Society of Huntsville Ward. She ex-
pressed her gratification at observing a
spirit of progress that appeared to actuate
the Saints of this place, and congratulated
the Society upon their prospect of a house
in which to work, transact their business,
and hold their meetings. She also urged
the importance of carefully maintaining
united efforts, and referred to some of the
magnificent results that had already been
accomplished thereby.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said this was
her first visit to this ward, and felt very 
much pleased at the present opportunity to
make the acquaintance of her Sisters here.
Remarked how little we realized when the
Prophet Joseph first organized the Society
in Nauvoo, the vast importance which
these associations would attain to, but
time and experience has proven that God
works with His daughters, and they are
doing a great work in the midst of Israel.
	President Zina D. H. Young desired the
Spirit to guide her on this important oc-
casion. Joseph Smith said, early after the
first organization, while addressing the
Relief Society in April 1842, “You will
receive instructions through the order of
the Priesthood which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed, to
lead, guide and direct the affairs of the
Church in this last dispensation; and I now
turn the key in your behalf in the name of
the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice and
knowledge and intelligence shall flow down
from this time henceforth; this is the begin-
ning of better days to the poor and needy,
who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth
blessings on your heads.” Let me say to
all who look upon these associations as idle
gossip, I bear my testimony before you that
God is with his daughters; and to you my
dear brethren, be interested, for there is a
great blessing in this work. Assist the
sisters in their work of righteousness and
their blessings will all be shared by you,
and they will be encouraged to press for-
ward in their good work, and labor of love
to the needy.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said: we must
keep in mind that we are engaged in the
Lord's work. The 25,000 members of the
Relief Society in the Church are doing an
indescribable amount of good in their
various wards. Their Bishops realize their
mighty help, as well as the needy who re-
ceive their kindly aid. All this is part and
parcel of the work of the Lord. The
Presidency in their late visit to the Society
in Ogden expressed their approval of the
societies erecting houses in which to meet,
instruct each other and their daughters in
all things pertaining to life and health that
human suffering may be diminished and a
greater longevity attained,as well as do their
current business and perform their works
of charity. He extended his remarks con-
cerning the duty of the Society, and the
necessity of a house for them to occupy,
and expressed his pleasure at the earnest-
ness with which the people here had un-
dertaken this work. We must persevere
and progress or the work of God will
advance and leave us behind.
	Sister Richards spoke furthur of the
house, and was happy to hear of the inter-
est felt by the young ladies of the Improve-
ment Association in helping their mothers
of the Relief Society, to accomplish its
erection. Said they would live to see the
day when they would praise the Lord for
the course they had taken.
	Bishop McKay and others addressed


meeting with remarks appropriate and im-
portant to the occasion; when the people
repaired to a lot on a block west of the
Tabernacle, where the new building is to
be erected, and where master mason L. M.
Christiansen had all things ready for the
ceremony.
	After Singing and prayer an enclosure,
containing a record of the Society’s work
from its commencement, with names of its
officers and of the Bishopric, No. 5 of
Deseret News, Juvenile Instructor, WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT and Young Woman’s
Journal, was deposited.
	When the authorities present proceeded
to place the South East Corner Stone of
the Rellef Society’s Hall of Huntsville
Ward in position, and declared it was now
laid. The blessing of God was invoked
upon all who shall assist in its erection and
that the way may speedily be opened
whereby the necessary means may be ob-
tained for its accomplishment, which was
responded to with a hearty Amen.
	President Zina D. H. Young and Coun-
selor Bathsheba W. Smith spoke in a very
loving, kind, and energetic manner, feel-
ing fully assured the sisters would never
regret the noble effort they were now mak-
ing to obtain a house of their own.
	Several persons present donated various
sums of money towards the erection of the
building, and the interesting proceedings
were concluded with pleasure and gratitude
that will long be remembered by the good
people of Huntsville, and their visitors
present.
				 ELIZA A. TRACY, President. 
				EMMA BURROWS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HEALTH FOR WOMEN
	THE Viavi Home Treatment is a certain
cure for all female diseases and uterine
troubles. It has cured thousands of wo-
men who have despaired of ever getting
relief. The treatment is applied by the
patient herself, causes no inconvenience
and is absolutely safe and reliable—Cor-
respondence solicited. For full particulars
address Dr. E. B. Ferguson 121 B. Street
Salt Lake City.


CHRISTMAS NUT CAKE—Cream together
two cupfuls of sifted white sugar and half a
cupful of butter. Add the yolks of three
eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, three cup-
fuls of sifted flour and three teaspoonfuls
of baking powder. Stir into the beaten
whites of three eggs one cupful of blanched
and chopped nuts; add to the batter and
bake in small tins. Ice with vanilla icing.


A LETTER TO THE LADIES.

	FOR three years I have suffered pain and misery
in ailment peculiar to our sex. I have been
treated by some of the best physicians of this
city without material results. I took one treat-
ment of DR. DE JOZA’s prescription, and to my
surprise and pleasure, was able to be up working
and hav e been free from pain and other incon-
veniences. Being so pleased with the results I
have consented to give this testimonial and also
recommend it to my lady friends and all others
who so much need it.
	Very truly yours,
	PHEBE I. ALLRED.
Mrs. Allre[---] well known lady of Salt Lake
City. Her [---]ress will be given to any lady who
will write or call at our office. Also other
testimonials at your service. One trial treat-
ment, $2.00. All orders must be sent to the
Lady Managers SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO., 56
West, Second South St., Room 2.”


OBITUARIES.

	CENTER WARD—Has had a shadow of gloom
cast over it by the sudden demise of one of our
number, Maria Ann Simmons who departed this
life, Oct. 24, 1893 of typhoid fever, and leaves a
husband and six small children to mourn her loss,
she was a Relief Society Teacher, and always
ready to do her duties in all her callings. She was
born in Coney Heath Hatfield Hearts England,
Sep, 25th, 1855; and was baptized July 24 1865 by
by William D. Owen at Chamberwell, London.
Emigrated to Utah in the fall of 1881. May she
rest in peace.
			MARY A. WHITTAKER, Sec.
			BETSY G. WHITTAKER, Pres’t.

Dear Sister Wells:
	IT is my painful duty to inform you of the death
of our beloved President, Elizabeth Richards wife
of the late Silas Richards and daughter of Elijah
and Elizabeth McClenahan born June 12, 1809
in Kentucky. She departed this life after one
weeks severe suffering on Nov. 22nd, 1893 at the
residence of her daughter Mrs. Lucy A. Brady.
In 1846, she received her blessings in the Nauvoo
Temple and shared in the persecutions of the
Saints in being driven from their homes in that
city and arrived in Kanesville on the 24th, of
June in the same year remaining there ’till 1849.
	In 1847 when the pioneers returned to Winter
Quarters and a log Tabernacle was built, at
Kanesville Sister Richards fed and lodged thirty
of them for several days and it was at this time and
place where Brother Brigham Young was voted
in as President of the Church.
	Heber C. Kimball prophecied then that Sister
Richards and her family should never want bread
a prediction which has been literally fulfilled up
to this time.
	Sister Richards was a woman of nerve and
ndependence, she drove a team the entire dis-
tance across the plains from Nauvoo to Salt Lake
City she left Kanesville with her husband who
was Captain of one of the companies and her
family on July 10th, 1849 and arrived in Salt Lake
City on Oct,23rd of the same year, she was one
of the oldest settlers of Union, also President of
the Union district South Cottonwood ward for
eight years in the Relief Society, and in the
organization of the Union ward in 1877, she was
appointed to preside over the Union Ward
Relief Society on Aug. 8th, of that year and held
that position when she died, her health has been
feeble for the last two or three years, but she al-
ways had a good word of counsel to give to all.
All that loving hands could do was done for her,
which she very much appreciated.
	She was the mother of six children, twenty-two
grand children and forty-nine great grand
children. The funeral was largely attended, the
speakers were Bishop Joseph S. Rawlins, John
Sharp, Charles Denney and Bishop Ishmael
Phillips, all testified to her upright character and
her devotion to the work of God.
	Through the fiery ordeals of Illinois she passed
with no shelter, oft exposed to the cold wintry
blast yet never did she utter a word of regret at
joining so despised and persecuted a people.

To the celestial law through Joseph revealed,
	This our dear sister, obedience did yield;
To trials exempt thro’ which many have fell,
	She kept the covenant, and with her all is well.
A President, Counselor and a mother in need,
	To the sisters of Union, for years she has been;
Long, long remembered by many she’ll be;
	As they are tossed to and fro’ on life’s trouble-
		some sea.
						M. A. SMART, Sec’y.


MISS GRACE J. HAYNES, formerly a
teacher in Lawrence, Mass., has been elect-
ed principal of Olivet College, Olivet,
Mich.
	CHICAGO has thirty police matrons, with
a head matron over all. They have cared
for 35,119 women and girls during the
past year.
	NEARLY 11,000 women have registered
in Boston for school suffrage, a substantial
increase over last year.
	A VERY successful conference of women
workers was held at Leeds, on the 7th and
8th of November. Papers were read by
Lady Frederick Cavendish on the “The


Housing of the Poor;” by Mrs. Alfred
Ashe on "Health Teaching in Towns;" and
by Miss Hetty Jones on ‘‘The Condition of
Life in Houses of Business.” Many other
useful and practical subjects were discussed.
	A MAN cannot be truly eloquent if he
knows not how to listen.


A Card
	to the Ladies!
DEAR LADY: If you are troubled with painful
and irregular periods take Dr. de Joza's World-
renowned Prescription. We give written guaran- 
tee to permanently cure in two treatments or re-
fund money. Price for one trial treatment $2.00.
Write or call on Lady Manager.
SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO.,
5G West Second South St.,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Patients unsuccessfully treated or imposed up-
on by others especially invited to call.

CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S
		HOLIDAYS.
	Excursions via Union Pacific.

For the Holidays the Union Pacific will sell
excursion tickets at rate of one fare for the
round trip to any point in Utah, also to any
point on the Union Pacific System outside of
Utah within distance of 250 miles, and to all
points in Colorado.
	Tickets to be sold Dec. 23, 24, 25, 30, 31
and Jan. 1, good for return until Jan. 4. Tick-
ets sold to Colorado points will be good for
return until Jan. 15.
	
	THE VIAVI OFFICES 
Are removed to the Ricketts Block—
Corner State and 3rd, South Sts. Salt
Lake City. Suffering women will do well 
to investigate this remedy, as it is fully
proven to be a cure for diseases of wo-
men. Send for a Health Book.

DUNFORD’S
Have the Cheapest and Best Lines of
SHOES and SLIPPERS
	in the City.
New Store.         57 S. Main St.

	R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
	Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1893, AND JANUARY 1, 1894. NO 10.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. To the Sisters—
Z. D. H. Young. U. W. P. Club—Gladys Wood-
mansee. Reorganization. Relief Society Con
ference. Semi-monthly Meeting—Lydia D.
Alder. Woman’s Suffrage Column. Hon. C. W. 
Penrose. Utah W. S. A.—E. J. Davis Co. W. S.
A. National-American Convention. Another
Relief Society—Alice J. Harker. Primary
Annual—E. W. H. Wayne Stake—Florence M.
Williams. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL.—To our Patrons and Agents. A
Happy New Year. Christmas-tide.
	POETRY.—Christmas Musings—E. R. Shipp.
Sympathy’s Offering—Emily H. Woodmansee.
Summerland—C. L. W.


CHRISTMAS MUSINGS.

‘Twas Christmas eve the full grown moon
	O'er spread the earth with lucent light,
Radiant stars made all around
	Emit the rays of diamonds bright.
The air was cold, and sharp, and keen,
	And glistened with its silver sheen!
The snow was crisp, and fairly creaked
	Beneath the many moving feet.
The streets were thronged with grave and gay,
	The rich and poor together there,
The sunny-haired, the head of grey,
	Alike the brilliant scene did share.
	For art her beauties well displayed.
With charms enhanced by nature's aid;
	The peasant with his elbows bare
Jostling near the millionaire.
To watch the faces of the crowd
	Was study for an artist’s pen—
With voice subdued, or accent loud,
	Of children small, or stalwart men,
All pushing, crowding, struggling by—
	With gladsome laugh, or stifling sigh—
Each pressing on to reach some goal
	As haven for the anxious soul.
How beat these human hearts tonight?
	When every one should feel good cheer,
Do all bid sorrow take its flight?
	And throw aside each doubt and fear,
Or, are there some amid the throng
	Whose pleasures never tarry long?
Who, even at this Christmas tide,
	Have food, and warmth, and love denied?
Hark! list! we hear the tinkling bells
	Of Santa Claus upon the road!
What winsome joys their music tells!
	But pause—suppose we jump aboard
And take a little trip around,
	And with him see what can be found;
To view the world in varying phase,
	As seen by Santa's generous gaze.
We see the stately tow'ring walls
	Of wealthy homes on every hand,
Where festive music fills the halls,
	And luxury is at command:
Where Christmas bring increased delight
	Wlth all that tempts the taste and sight
Friends fondly vieing to impart
	The greatest joys to otheer hears.
In all their lives they've never known
	The dreaded pangs of cold or want,
Stranger to the sufferers groan,
	And poverty so grim and gaunt,
Then how should they be thought to know

[Column 2]
	The tithe of pain and want and woe,
That those less fortunate than they
	Are doomed to feel by night and day.
They see that Santa’s well supplied
	With varied and ample store;
Their darlings must not be denied,
	Their stockings must be brimming o,er
With all that youthful hearts could ask.
	Sure Santa's is a pleasing task!
With lavish hand they freely give
	When gifts are needed not to live.
Kind Santa Claus' unselfish heart
	Would fain be just and true to all.
He'd gifts alike to all impart—
	To rich and poor, to great and small.
But he is but an agent here
	To visit little children dear,
To give what others have decreed;
	Which often seems unjust indeed.
And this is why this Christmas-eve
	The lowly homes and hovels bare
Such poor and scanty gifts receive,
	And have so little love and care,
Why little children vainly sigh—
	When Merry Christmas, time draws nigh
To have their stockings brimming o’er
	With sweetmeats, and with gifts a score. 
O! could we but invest with power
	The Santa Claus of every home—
That henceforth from this very hour—
	In justice to each home to come;
That ev’ry little fluttering heart
	Might feel it had its ample part,
Nor wonder why the girls and boys
	Of other homes should have more toys.
As echoes by a master woke
	Reverberate in sweetest time,
Oh! Father ope with one great stroke
	The spring of human love sublime.
Oh make us feel as thou didst, when
	Thou gavest thy son to die for men;
That we may celebrate His birth
	With peace, good will, to all on earth.
	E. R. SHIPP.


SYMPATHY’S OFFERING.

	[To the bereaved family of Brother C. R.
Savage—in memory of his beloved wife the late
Mrs. Annie A. Savage who was for many years the
true friend of the Author.]
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.

A loyal friend, most worthy of respect;
	A faithful wife, a mother true and fond,
A gentle women, one of God’s “Elect”—
	Has left us for the bright and blest “Beyond.”
No more on earth, we’ll see her genial face—
	The index of her soul’s unconscious grace.
Her’s was the charm of friendly earnestness,
	Above formality, or proud display;
Her ready hand, full oft relieved distress—
	But never in an ostentatious way;
Sweet sympathy, and modest worth combined—
To form a nature lovable and kind.
Fate, fitted her with qualities to share—
	A pleasant home, with all “the Boon” implies,
Whose generous tone, reveals the father’s care,
	The children’s tasks, the mother’s forethought,
	wise,
Alas! where mutual love held gentle sway,


The household Queen is sadly missed today.

’Tis well, 'tis well when true companions go,
	If ne’er we grieved them, with intent unkind,
'Tis well, when, howsoever deep our woe,
	No stinging self-reproach distracts our mind,
’Tis well, when keen remorse, is out of place,
	So happily as in this special case.

Our friend received and loved the Gospel light,
	And prized the comfort that it truly brings,
Her spirit was refreshed e’en day and night
	With ‘‘living water” from celestial springs.
Her hope was like an anchor strong and sure 
Grounded on truth! eternal and secure.

Faith! was her friend, when sickness lingered
		near,
	And left its impress on her features pale;
Consoling faith! still whispered words of cheer
	And led her safely through the shadowy vale.
Sustained her through the spectre-haunted night,
That ushers in the dawn of “Endless Light!”

We would not selfishly recall her, yet
	Fond hearts are thrilled with human grief and
		pain,
Fond hearts are full of unexpressed regret— 
	Of old time friends, so very few remain,
Lo! one by one, they’re wafted from our view,
With hardly time to breathe a last adieu.

How can we fail to note, with sore dismay,
	The broken ranks of those we lov’d in youth?
Whose constancy is like a sunny ray,
	Who know us as we know ourselves forsooth.
Who while they sense our failings,not a few,
Most kindly recognize our virtues too.

Many await us on the “Distant shore”
	Who’ll gladly greet us, when life’s tasks are
		done,
Oh! happy day, that sees our conflict o’er;
	The battle fought, the victory fairly won;
Heaven grant us strength, sufficient for the fight,
	’Till with the loved ones gone we reunite.

	Salt Lake City Dec. 1893.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXVI.

	WHEN young Lord Walton made up his
mind to work and accepted the official
position, he set about it in earnest though
he had never known the routine, of actual
employment. In this as in everything else
Dr. Bland stood by him, and gave every
encouragement possible. Lady Anna freely
forgave the past and was more hopeful of a
happy future.
	The only serious source of uneasiness 
was the failure of Dr. Bland’s health. His
wife feared the change of climate and con-
ditions had been the cause, but the good
Doctor assured her he would soon be better
and that there was no need of worry about
him, he should pull through all right; the
winter was rather trying, weather severely
cold, and snow and frost such as in England
they had never experienced. Lady Anna
needed constant attention from her cousin
for she was not strong, and had more to en-
dure than usual, and the thought of what
might transpire, were the Doctor not able to
attend upon her when needed, was a
source of uneasiness to Jane Bland. Some-


[Column 1]
times she felt as if she must ask Mr. Har-
rison to come to America and join them, 
that there might be a strong support for 
them in case of any emergency, but with 
this feeling there was always the presenti-
ment which had haunted her from  their 
first acquaintance. She knew if she wrote 
for her cousin Clair, Mr. Harrison would 
certainly accompany him, and besides 
Clair would not be the least use in any 
difficulty; he was very boyish and excellent 
company when all was prosperous, but in 
adversity he would not be able to render 
the moral support necessary. Mrs. Bland 
felt in her inmost soul some desperate trial 
was at hand, and yet there was no one to
whom she could speak of it.  While these 
impressions were so strong upon her, Lady 
Anna Walton was entirely unconcered, 
except occasionally noticing how pale and 
thin the Doctor was growing, but when-
ever she mentioned the fact to her cousin
she changed the subject, and Lady Anna felt
there could not be any danger, or her 
cousin would observe it. 
	The wardrobe of the little stranger soon 
expected occupied much of Lady Anna's 
time and thought, and her little Edward 
was growing quite interesting, and she was 
really more contented and happier than she 
had been before.  Maitland made many 
new acquaintances in his business, and as 
the men he met were mostly substantial 
enterprising men of ability and sterling 
character, his own aims in life expanded 
and his ideas changed so much that he was 
really companionable to Dr. Bland, who 
enjoyed his society and conversation and 
his friendship was a real pleasure and
satisfaction.
	The Doctor realized in part his failing 
health, and when he found his cough 
so troublesome as to keep him indoors, he 
reflected seriously as to the future; he 
hoped his wife was not aware of what he 
knew himself concerning his condition, 
and she, poor woman had the same feeling. 
It was painful to both, and yet each dreaded 
to acknowledge the sad truth. 
	And so the winter wore on, there was 
much to interest the Doctor in this new 
country, and his advice was asked by men 
in grave matters of state, as well as in his 
profession, he ranked high in the community 
was liberal in his views, and often a 
mediator between those who differed 
radically in opinions, especially of a re-
ligious character. Such men are useful 
members in any society, and in trying
times, when cummunities are being formed, 
such stalwarts are invaluable. The ad-
vantage a physician has of intimate as-
sociation with people in all conditions of 
life is highly educational in the best and 
broadest sense of the word, and Dr. Bland 
was naturally a man of superior qualities 
and attributes, and withal so modest and 
unassuming that aspiring, ambitious men
were not afraid to trust him.  He inspired 
confidence in all and his sympathies were deep and strong. 
	In the long winter evenings when his 
wife was busy with her needle if his cough 
would permit they would talk freely of the 
future of the colonies, and of their own two 
families and the Doctor dwelt much upon 
the future of their boy, cautioning his wife 
in regard to the discipline he must have to 
prepare him for life's battles.  And yet 
these two husband and wife could not 
open their hearts to each other concerning 
that which was of such vital importance. 
	When alone in his study Dr. Bland oc-
[Column 2]
cupied himself with writing out his 
thoughts and views, determined that if he 
must leave his wife and child his affairs 
should be so plainly  understood that there
could be no complications to perplex and 
distress his wife whom he loved devotedly 
and reverenced as brave and wise men ever
do when happily mated. 
	Spring came at last, though it was late 
in April before the frost and snow entirely 
disappeared, the winter had been long yet 
not unpleasant, for in many ways there had 
been true domestic enjoyment and agreeable 
social intercourse among the friends and 
neighbors.
	No news had come from over the sea ex-
cept from Maitland's mother, there were 
few near relatives, to write and Mr. Har-
rison and Clair were still wandering they 
knew not exactly where.  Some of the 
servants had letters from the vicinity of 
the old Castle, telling of vague rumors 
concerning Walton Hall and the doings of 
the Italian Count with the horrid foreign 
name, but Mrs. Bland warned the servants 
not to speak of it to her cousin, and though 
they were fond of gossip they kept it 
among themselves.  Finally news came to 
Maitland that there was a separation,
there had been an open quarrel caused by 
the Count's jealousy, and Maitland was 
wanted at Walton Hall.  It was a critical 
time for him to leave home, his wife needed 
the most tender care; the Doctor's health 
precarious, in a new country where every-
thing was so different, it was a most perp-
plexing dilemma.  His lawyers at home 
insisted upon his actual presence, and would 
take no refusal.  Mrs. Bland was a sort of 
oracle in family matters and the subject 
was referred to her for a final decision. 
   Mrs. Bland could not conscientiously 
consent to Maitland's going away until her 
cousin had passed the ordeal that was now 
very soon expected, and the new mansion 
was unfinished except a few rooms 
they had moved into and occupied during the 
winter. 
	"My cousin is too delicate at present to 
be left, wait a few months or weeks at least and 
see her made more comfortable before 
you think of going for you may be detained 
a long time, these family matters per-
taining to business and property are not 
settled hurriedly, and Maitland, if you 
should leave Anna and anything serious 
were to happen, you would never cease to 
regret it," said Mrs. Bland.
	"When I do go Jane I shall trust all to 
you, I have no one competent to take 
charge in my absence, Simpson does well 
enough when I am here to give orders, but 
Anna has no idea of managing and I can 
only depend upon your supervision. It 
seems a great deal to ask of you, and the 
Doctor so poorly, but I'll try and recom-
pense you by bringing you some luxuries 
when I come back again, such as cannot be 
obtained in America."
	"I shall do whatever is possible for my 
cousin under any circumstances, without 
expecting remuneration, it is a pleasure to 
me to be with her, and were anything to 
happen," here Mrs. Bland completely broke 
down, and Maitland was at a loss to know 
what she meant.  He could not understand, 
but was completely adrift, for he considered 
Jane a heroine equal to any emergency, and if she failed what could be done, he would not dare to go away. Mrs. Bland regained her voice in a few moments, and went on to say, that she realized her husband's condition to be serious and in view of Anna's sickness too, he needed great 
courage. "The servants are very good especially Anna's maid and the nurse you brought from Waiton Hall, but we need 
some one who has greater knowledge, and I have been looking about to secure such help, but have not succeeded."
	"I shall bring my mother to America when I return and we shall feel more settled, I will make some disposal of the 
estate, for after what has happened mother will not live at Walton Hall alone." Mrs. Bland made no reply she felt how weak 
Lady Walton would be were any real trouble to come, but could not say so to Maitland of his only near relative. Maitland assured Mrs. Bland he would remaiu until she thought proper for him to go and so matters went on as hertofore Dr. Bland improved a little as the weather grew warmer so he could ride about over the hill and visit his patients, and his wife grew more hopeful of his recovery. Maitland wrote his mother he could not leave his wife as yet, and the lawyers must pospone the business. 
	One beautiful morning in May, in the 
new mansion, a daughter was born, and for 
days after Lady Anna's life was despaired 
of; Dr. Bland watched her constantly and 
her cousin Jane never left the sick room, 
Maitland's visit to England was given up, 
or never alluded to, and throughout the 
house, all was dark and quiet, except the 
whisperers of the attendants, save when in 
her delirium the young mother talked 
hysterically, and confusedly of the old 
castle and of Walton Hall. Mr. Barrington 
the young minister who had made such a 
decidedly religious impression upon 
Lady Walton came often to see her with Mait-
land' consent, for he was so utterly power-
less to render any assistance himself, he was 
glad to have the support of so faithful a 
friend as Barrington had been from their 
first metting, and Mrs. Bland felt spiritually 
uplifted by the presence of this devoted 
minister of the "new faith" as it was called 
by them; Lady Anna was always more 
passive and rested better when he was in 
the house. 
During the early days of her illness Anna 
had spoken to her cousin prophetically of 
what might transpire and Jane had carefully 
noted it all, for her own premonitions con-
firmed it and she had told the Doctor, and 
also talked to Maitland, of her fears. The 
whole household mourned, for the lady 
was greatly beloved; she did not seem to 
suffer severe pain, but gradually grew 
weaker and weaker, and finally passed in-
to a deep sleep never more to waken in this 
world; just as her mother died or as Mrs. 
Bland had heard it from some of the old 
servants at Hilliard castle. 
	Maitland' grief was uncontrollable, he 
could not and would not be comforted, his 
remorse was pitifnl, and Dr. Bland had 
hard work to persuade him to leave the 
room after all was over while the attendants 
with Mrs. Bland performed the last sad 
services for their "sweet mistress"


WOMANS EXPONENT


MISS GRACE CHISHOLM, of Cambridge
University; Miss Maltby, formerly of
Wellesly College; and Mary F. Winston, of
Chicago, have received special permission
from the German government to enter the
University of Gottingen with the same
privileges which the men enjoy. Miss
Winston and Miss Chisholm are in the de-
partment of mathematics, and Miss Maltby
in that of physics.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SUMMERLAND.

(Suggested by reading Book of Alma 353rd, page.)

	'Tis a land where the waters of life,
		Gently flow through the vales of the blest,
	Where the fainting and thirsty may drink,
		There the Souls that are weary find rest.

		We shall meet—we shall greet—
	All our loved ones in fair Summerland,
		We shall meet—we shall greet—
	All our loved ones in fair Summerland.

	'Tis a land where the fairest of flowers,
		Deck the vales with their sweet Eden-bloom;
	Where the angelic petals shed forth,
		Everlasting celestial perfume,
							We shall meet &c.

	In this beautiful land of the blest,
		Where sorrows and tears never come,
	There is sweet rest for souls that are faint
		In that glorious, bright, beautiful Home.
							We shall meet—

	’Tis a land where the Pilgrims find rest—
		When their trials and troubles are gone:
	Where the bright Angels welcome them home,
		To this land of the sanctified ones.
							We shall meet—
								C. L. W.


TO THE SISTERS.

	OUR Conference is now numbered with
past blessings; how gratifying it would
have been for all the Saints to have par-
taken of the precious instruction we re-
ceived; but believing all prayerful saints
will receive a portion of the same spirit
that will strengthen comfort and encourage
them in every circumstance and in all trials
is a great consolation to me, the instruc-
tion from our brethren to all that would
favor Zion and that the key was turned in
favor of Zion, the thinning of the curtain
that has separated from us the far off bless-
ings.
	In the Sisters’ Conference President F. D.
Richards instruction was precious; assur-
ances for us to continue in our labors as we
have ever done in our society in all its
branches; it would have cheered every
heart to have heard it, and I trust it will
for God surely gave the pattern and all
will prosper if we are humble and faithful
to our duties, to be sure that the needy do not
suffer, Heavenly mission; that we may
meet our Father’s approval, and if great
wisdom be used in our words to cheer, and
with our deeds of kindness, that all may
have the spirit of gratitude to God for our
many blessings and I pray that they may
fill the soul of every sister that we may ad-
vance in good works and that we may be
strong and united.
	We three sisters, myself and my Counse-
lors, Sisters Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith are one in desiring God’s special
blessings upon our sisters, yes all, but
especially those who have so nobly labored
in the Relief Society. It was very much
regretted by me that Sister Richards had to
be absent from our Conference on account
of ill health (but trust she will soon re-
cover) as it was suggested in her absence,
that the President of each Stake organiza-
tion of the Relief Society would act as aids
for us to call upon; (I have said I, but we
three are the only ones that I wish to con-
vey in meaning) that we all may be blest
spiritually and temporally.


Take the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, 
we three as one with the Presidents of
Stakes, read and study the Lectures on
Faith, and that the Presidents of Stakes
would take it as a mission to ask all local
Presidents to have these lectures read in
their meetings that we may understand
alike, and mothers be able to instruct the
children and converse with the Primary and
Sunday School children to make it truly
profitable.
	My sisters this needs no comment,
that when we rest from our labors our
works will follow us in the hands of our
children. Let us be wise, humble, peace-
ful and prudent, not distrusting God’s
Providence and all will be well.
Oct. 15, 1893.				Z. D. H. Y.


To all our sisters throughout the world.
Since writing the above I can surely recom-
mend having the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants especially the lectures on Faith,
read by all the sisters, as in the Temple all
that work there meet, read and discuss these
lovely and eternal truths that edify and
satisfy the reasoning soul. We do not say
go and do, but come let us be strong, we
do not forget while in that precious place,
the absent and tried; the lectures are read
and questions every week, if there is a
power in reason that removes doubt and
gives assurance I have been fully assured,
for when the thought came tome it had not
been tried by the sisters in the Temple. I
trust that every Stake President will com-
ply and not delay in making it a request
and eveu if read at home, have some one
read it when together, you will have a por- 
tion of the same spirt by which we are
edified in the Temple, by faith and prayer
nothing doubting we shall see eye to eye,
having assure foundation. Our Sabbath
School children can be more strengthened
at home by their intelligent mothers, who
may be weary with toil, but by a little
management the reading can be a pleasant
home entertainment; we all should be
familiar with these lectures that we may res-
pect the Great Giver of these blessings and
the Prophet of the living God who has
laid down his life for the truth’s sake.
					ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
Dec. 5, 1893.


U.W. P. C.

	THIS organization met on the 29th, day
of the month, November, with the new of-
ficers in charge. The meeting was held in
the apartments of President Ellis R. Shipp
who occupied the chair, and was called
promptly on time, 7-30, p. m.
	The meeting was opened by prayer of-
fered by the honorary President E. B. Wells
and the roll call was responded to by
Thanksgiving Sentiments, original or
selected.
	Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor and Mrs. Elizabeth
Stevenson, were admitted to membership
and Mrs. M. A. V. Greenhalch was voted
in as Vice President at large for the club.
	The Secretary, read the By Laws of the 
club, and following a suggestion of Presi-
dent E. B. Wells, they were amended to
admit of the acceptance of members on
verbal recomendations instead of the writ-
ten ones hitherto required by the By Laws;
which amendment was readily adopted by
all of the members.
	The evening program was then carried
out as follows:


New England Thanksgiving stating the
origin of the custom among the Pilgrims
and the way of celebrating it ever since.
This interesting paper was prepared and
read by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	The Sec'y then read a paper written by
Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze on the "Influence of
Thanksgiving" on the spiritual being;
making some quotations given in literature,
ancient and modern, etc.
	Miss Olea Shipp favored the club with a 
choice instrumental selection which was
much appreciated.
	President Ellis R. Shipp read an original
poem on the subject of the hour. "Thanks-
giving."
	Several of the members gathered around
the piano and sang Will Carlton's Thanks-
giving Hymn.
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalch, in compliance
with a request of the President, addressed
the members. After expressing her
pleasure at meeting with the club this be-
ing her first attendance, though a member,
she described in a pleasing style the man-
ner of observing Thanksgiving in Old
England, gave the origin of the custom in
that country which dated back to the
Druids.
	This completed the program and the
regular meeting was adjourned, benediction
pronounced by Mrs. E. Stevenson.
	Dainty refreshments were served ac-
companied by the usual pleasant chat,
during which time Miss Olea Shipp rendered
some low, sweet music much to the enjoy-
ment of all.
	The numbers for the December program
are: Answering roll call by naming
Authors, and a quotation from their most
noted work. Essay on the Sixth Sense (or
something else) L. L. G Richards;
Biography of J. G. Whittier, Dr. R. B.
Pratt; Selection from Whittier, Miss
Patterson; Music, Gladys Woodmansee;
New Year’s Poem, Mrs. Dickinson.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


REORGANIZATION.
	A SPECIAL meeting of the 8th, Ward,
Relief Society was held in the Ward as-
sembly rooms, Salt Lake City Oct. 24, 1893;
for the purpose of reorganizing and select-
ing a new president our former one having
passed away.
	The meeting was opened by singing “We
thank Thee O, God for a Prophet.” Prayer
by J. D. H. Mc.Allister. Singing “Oh
my Father.”
	The following sisters were then selected
and set apart; Catherine K. Palmer, Presi-
dent, Jane Cowan first counselor, Sarah
J. Chamberlain second counselor, Jennie
Mortensen secretary, Jennette McMurin
Ass’t. Sec’y, Eliza Frost treasurer.
	The Primaary Association was also re-
organized as follows, Sister Ann Cartwright
president, Jennie Mortensen first counselor,
Nettie Frost second counselor, Annie Cart-
wright secretary.
	Remarks were then made by Sisters Elmina
S. Taylor and E. B. Wells and Bishop
Sheets, after which the meeting was ad-
journed. Singing “Guide us O, Thou
Great Jehovah.” Benediction by Charles
Tuckfield.


THE way to gain a good reputation is to
endeavor to do what you desire to appear.
—Socrates.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. .
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
Salt Lake City Dec. 15,1893, AND Jan. 1, 1894.


TO OUR PATRONS AND AGENTS.
	WE very much regret being obliged to
issue our Christmas and New Year’s paper
in one number, but unavoidable circum-
stances compel it, and we earnestly entreat
the patrons and agents of the Exponent
to use their utmost influence and exertions
to increase its circulation, and urge upon
agents in all localities to solicit subscriptions
and make collections of outstanding accounts
wherever possible, meantime taking into
consideration the valuable service it has
rendered the women of the Territory and
throughout the Relief Society everywhere,
as well as the advancement of women
generally especially in reference to the
ballot for women. All members of the
Relief Society and all who believe in
Woman’s Suffrage and woman’s uplifting
in all directions should subscribe for the
first woman’s paper published in the Rocky
Mountain region.


[Column 1]
A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
	A HAPPY NEW YEAR is the salutation
that greets old and young at the present
time, and it is pleasant to hear the cheerful
tones repeating the hopeful words that
never grow old, but each year brings them
back fresh and crisp as ever.
	The new year comes full of hopefulness
from all for better days, and yet the last
dear old year brought with it many bless-
ings. After all none of us know whether
these days of adversity when money is
tight, and a panic seems to have struck the
country are not good for us all; sorrows have
their purpose and if these trials and per-
plexities will make us more gratified and
appreciative of the many blessings we do
enjoy, and lift our hearts to Him who is the
fountain of all light and love, if there is a
lesson to be learned through suffering, then
we should not repine, but accept our cup of
bitterness, if such it be, trusting in Him
who will overrule all for the good of those
who acknowledge His hand in all things.
	If we as a people should enumerate the
blessings of the year that is now numbered
with the past, we should find much to re-
joice over. The Salt Lake Temple to
which so many have looked anxiously for-
ward has been finished and dedicated to
the Lord, great promises have been given
on conditions of faithfulness, that should
encourage all who believe in the Latter
day work. None of our great leaders have
been taken from us, during this past year,

[Column 2] 
their lives have all been spared; throughout
the vales of the mountains peace and plenty
has reigned, and no great calamity has
befallen us here, such as has visited many
other countries and localities. For this
protection, and these blessings and many
others innumerable, we should be humble
and give the praise to our Father in Heaven
who controls the elements, guides all
things, and can turn the rivers of water
whithersoever He will.
	If some extra exertion is necessary that
the poor and unfortunate may have food
and raiment during the winter, it will
bring into active exercise the kindly and
generous feelings and sentiments of those
who minister to the needy, and every bless-
ing bestowed will enrich the giver, for
charity bestowed in a true spirit is a bless-
ing and development of good and brings a
rich reward and satisfaction to Him who
gives freely and wisely. The present con-
dition of scarcity too, may awaken thought
in the direction of providing against such a
state of things in the future; employment
for the working people is one of the best
preventives of poverty and want. Men
and women who can co-operate together
for charitable purposes, should also be able
to co-operate to establish industries, that
men may work for their bread, and women
too, and not be dependent on charity; this
would be truer charity than the giving of
alms.
	Certainly no thoughtful person can help
feeling that the past year has been a mar-
velously great one in the advancemeut of
the world. The Columbian Exposition
alone would mark it as an epoch in the
history of all time, significant for its bril-
liant success and the knowledge of industry,
science and art, placed within the reach of
so many millions of people for their enlight-
enment upon these fundamental subjects.
The great Congresses and Parliaments too,
where men and women eminent for learn-
ing and achievements from all parts of the
world read and sopke to the thousands upon
thousands, was an education in itself of the
higher and grander truths of humanity and
the universe. Reflecting upon these won-
drous events with all the details in one’s
mind that can possibly be comprehended,
one queries whether the new year just
opening can give us as great opportunities
and as much more food for cultivation as
the one just gone.
	In summing up the achievements of the
years it must not be forgotten the rapid
strides forward in the cause of woman’s
suffrage. New Zealand afar off holds up a
beacon light to the world. Australia is
marching onward in the same direction and
that which was least expected has already
come to pass. Colorado our near neighbor
has done herself proud in admitting woman
to equal suffrage. Everywhere the cause
is gaining, and ere long other brilliant stars
will be added to Wyoming and Colorado.
	The tendency of the World’s Fair was
decidedly in the direction of woman’s po-
litical emancipation. This fact was con-
stantly apparent. The conspicuous part
taken by women in the actual business of
the Fair, the good judgment and financial
ability displayed by the Board of Lady
Managers, and the many women com-
missioners and foremost workers, has
caused many men and women heretofore
opposed to woman’s enfranchisement to
very materially change their views upon
his subject. Not only has this been a

[Column 3] 
wonderful year but the 19th century is,
we believe, unparalleled in history since the
advent of the Savior the “Light of the
World” the Christian era.


CHRISTMAS-TIDE.

		“AT Christmas-tide the open hand
		Scatters its bounty o’er sea and land,
		And none are left to grieve alone,
		For love is heaven and claims its own.”

	The Christmas-tide gives each and all an
opportunity to do good in some way, to
each other, to a friend or foe and certainly
he who forgives is more blest than he who
bestows alms, for to forgive those who
have wronged us is greater. The Apostle
Paul said if we bestow all our goods to feed
the poor and have not charity it avails us
nothing, then true Charity is something
more, something higher, and what is there
more difficult than to forgive, yet we expect
to be forgiven daily for our offences. Can
we not once in a year cherish the spirit of
forgiveness to all mankind. Be at peace
with all the world. Do good to those that
have wounded us or hurt us. Be
magnanimous and try to follow the example
of Him whose birth we celebrate. Instead
of this many of us follow our own inclina-
tions, do those things that are pleasant and
agreeable, eat drink and are merry, forget-
ting the sick, the sorrowing and the hungry,
we shut ourselves up in our own narrow
circle, and might the unhappy and disconso-
late to whom a kind word and a trifle would
be so precious. So we harden our hearts
and pass on our way heedless of the great
tide of humanity around us, and yet we
justify ourselves and say we have done what
we could.
	Christmas-tide is the overflow of bless-
ings temporal and spiritual, the reaching
out to the needy in body and soul, ad-
ministering the good things of this life and
also that which will lead upward to the
higher and more exalted state, and above
all else the forgiving each other’s weakness-
es and shortcomings. Wherein we fail to
do this our Christmas-tide is not to us to our
own souls the satisfaction it might have
been. We have lost something by our lack
of humility, we shall never reach the high-
est cultivation in our own character, in our
own souls until we can forgive as we hope
to be forgiven. We who live in this
favored land of Zion are wonderfully blest
in many ways, our homes are full of plenty,
if we have not the luxuries of the wealthy,
we have the substantial blessings of food
and raiment, homes and comforts, and the
protection thrown around us that uplifts
and cheers the toiler in life’s battles.
	Everywhere almost throughout the world
we hear of the cry of the working people
for better conditions, better dwell-
ings, higher wages, consideration of needs,
and the thoughtful and sympathetic feelings
of those who bear rule and those who em-
ploy help are being exercised upon these
momentous questions of the time, labor
and capital. Here these conditions do not
exist. Working men are not compelled to
submit to tyranny of any kind, there is
such freedom and equality that there can
scarcely be a complaint of this sort, there is
more land to till, more soil to cultivate,
more deserts to subdue, and it is not neces-
sary to crowd into large towns or cities, but
the independent, ambitious young man can
go to and consider a field and buy it and
plant a vineyard, and be his own master.


For these and many other blessings in-
numerable almost, we as a people should
be grateful and at the blessed Christmas
time should not forget to render praise and
thanksgiving to our Father in Heaven for
His mercies to this people, and in our heart
of hearts not only remember this, but his
children not so favored with good things to
whom we may impart a portion of the good
things we enjoy.
	To teach the children to share with others,
one should set the example himself (or her-
self) it is so much better than precept, and
if the little ones are somewhat selfish of toys
and trifles they will remember in after years
the pattern of their parents, for these
memories do follow, and when the best be-
loved are far away, or have gone to the
“other side,” the lessons they taught, the
examples they set are more potent; one
goes back to childhood on such uncommon
days, involuntarily remembering the olden
time, when as boy and girl, or youth and
maiden, all the world was like one great
holiday and sorrows were unknown, or
were the exception; and all the beautiful
traits of character in the loved ones at home,
seem to beam forth out of the distant past,
and a solemn determination to imitate the
excellence of these heroes and heroines
whose memories one fondly cherishes is the
result of many a fireside, or lonely reverie
at Christmas time or such red letter days.
	It is good to observe these days set apart
for love and friendship, for this age is so
eminently practical that without some such
observances, social and family life would
lose much of its tenderness and sweetness.
The reunion around the festive board, and
better still the gatherings at eventide by
the hearthstone at home, awaken the most
affectionate recollections, or call forth the
simple tales one loves to hear repeated of
the former days, of the daily labor, or of ad-
venture by land or sea, or the old songs,
and the early lessons at school, the sport
the games, or the invigorating exercises of
work or pastime.
	Such pleasant evenings when large
families assemble at the paternal mansion,
are waymarks in life forever after, and the
custom of families’ assembling together
ought to be perpetuated, for it increases
love, and regard for each other, and for the
head of the family, and if simple meals
were prepared and less show and display
made, these occasions would not be so rare;
it is often the expense that hinders, and
one has to consider this—to be sure, but if
simpler preparations could be the general
rule there would be more real social and
domestic happiness, and less ruin through
debt and extravagance.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

[Continued from Oct. 15.]

	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, "Do what is right," &c.
Prayer was offered by President M, Isabella
Horne, continued by singing "Come come
ye Saints. '
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake
was the first speaker, she reported all the
branches of the Society in good condition
except Eureka, the mines there having
closed had caused a depression in every-
thing, spoke about the wheat that had been
stored and of blessings in general and
mentioned the large number of yards of
carpet the society had made and donated to

[Column 2]
the Manti Temple which was very much
appreciated, the sisters were always willing
and generous when called upon to do to
the very extent of their ability.
	President Susan Grant of Davis Stake
spoke principally of what had been done in
saving grain, urged the mothers to be united
with the fathers in using their influence
at home and elsewhere, union in the
family was necessary for the training of
the children.
	President Elizabeth Yates of Millard
Stake explained that they were all working
people not many wealthy and none very
poor, she tried to be careful of the wheat
and keep adding to it, she often felt sur-
prised to get the little things that are do-
nated from time to time, and the good ac-
complished through the generosity of the
sisters who have little enongh for their own
comfort, yet are always willing to divide
	THE next speaker was Apostle F. D.
Richards who stated that he felt compli-
mented in being invited to attend the
Sisters’ conference, was glad to see so many
present, thought we should realize what we
were called to do, as a society, and not get
in too great a hurry, but take things
quietly; a sentiment prevailed largely about
strong-willed persons, but that will should
be regulated if good were to be the result;
but when one says "I can do nothing of
myself only to do the will of my Father
that sent me," that was the right spirit and
feeling.
	President Richards referred to the meet-
ing held in the morning at the Church
University Building in which President
Woodruff had spoken to the brethren as-
sembled in regard to the grain that had
been stored up by the sisters for a time of
want or need, said the President had given
excellent advice which would be published
for the benefit of all interested in the
matter.
	The Lord has promised many adversities
and famine is one of them; the sisters had
been helping the brethren all the time, to
build houses, and now the speaker
thought the brethren would help the sisters
in return, thought if we solicited their help
in the spirit of kindness, and asked for
what we wanted and kept on asking and
importuning we would get it; the speaker
urged the sisters to take good care of the
sick and needy and not hesitate because
they are not good, they must have atten-
tion, "cherish the attribute of love, that
will help you in all your labors, it is an old
saying "Love laughs at locksmiths," it is
certainly a potent power, we should all
cultivate it, we all need it;" he then gave
some advise to the sisters in regard to buy-
ing wheat, study the markets, knew wheat
would be rising in value. President Young
and other brethren traveled through the
Stakes of Zion counseling the people to lay
up wheat; quoted from the 14th Chapter of
Revelations "Another angel flying etc.
for the hour of his judgment has come;"
a hurricane has just swept over the coast
which has killed two or three thousand
people at one fell swoop; when people build
banks, hotels etc., let them remember the
hour of His judgment has come." Presi-
dent Cannon has been speaking recently
upon false doctrine being insidiously in-
troduced and that much mischief is being
done, one family had asked to have their
names taken from the Church books.
Elder Richards warned the people against
these false doctrines, said every Latter-day
Saint who don't know the truth of this

[Column 3]
work, should get a testimony by faith and
prayers; sometimes in sickness people run
after the Doctor and lose their faith in the
servants of God and the priesthood; "these
people may make great pretensions but the
Lord has warned us against those decep-
tions, could we stand firm if we saw fire
come down out of heaven? by and by there
will be magicians, they will be equal to
Moses day when sticks were turned to
serpents and back again to sticks;" Presi-
dent Richards also alluded to Theosophy,
and other erroneous doctrines, these things
are moving more among the sisters than
the brethren; then referred to the doctrine
of reincarnation, said it used to be called
the baby resurrection, it was brought to the
attention of Joseph the Prophet, by a
polished gentleman, Joseph said there was
no truth in it, other errors sprang up,
Millerism, second-adventists, spiritualists
and mesmerizes, "the Lord is not going to
tell us, beforehand the day nor the hour of
certain events: in the Savior's time, no one
knew except the Father and Him only,
stick to the scriptures and hearken to the
words of the servants of God, and the
Gospel as revealed to you in your native
lands, thank the Lord for every blessing."
Elder Richards closed his remarks by bless-
ing all assembled and said go home rejoic-
ing, your hearts light, may the Holy Spirit
comfort you and gladden your souls, impart
to others, your sisters and associates in this
work, the good things you have heard here
and during the Conference that has just
closed.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the love she felt for the sisters, and blessed
them in her tender motherly way, referred
to her visit to Chicago and the many
noble women she met there, knew that
they were working for the good of their
sex. Joseph the Prophet had turned the
key of knowledge for all women, and ever
since that time woman's influence had been
greater in all directions for good. Presi-
dent Young then said she wished to in-
crease the sphere of usefulness of the
sisters who were presiding in the several
stakes and have them become aids to the
General Presidency of the Relief Society
to herself and her Counselors, that they
might visit among the adjacent Stakes of
Zion either by invitation or appointment,
stated that it was sometimes impossible for
her or either of her Counselers to attend
the Sisters' Conferences that were remote
from here and in this way it might be
beneficial to those at a distance to have the
President or Presidents near attend each
others Conferences, much good might be
effected by the interchange of ideas and
thoughts, and it would promote greater
union and love by becoming familiarly
acquainted with each others' labors, she had
been inspired to give this counsel; it had
come to her like a power and a glow and
joy, and she added "if you do this you will
have joy in your labors, and in cooperating
together and it will increase faith and a
better understanding of our great work
and give us renewed strength to perform
our duties. It is our privilege to be hum-
ble and faithful and if we are we shall be
prepared for all our duties, the Lord bless
you my dear sisters and give you his Holy
Spirit for your guide.
	President Mary A. Hyde Sanpete Stake
felt we had enjoyed a feast of fat things,
said in that county the sisters had nearly a
thousand bushels of wheat not much
chance to glean now as they did formerly


because of the machinery taking up the
grain so clean, that none was left for glean-
ing, Sister Hyde made other excellent re-
marks.
	President Sarah M. Kimball thought of
many subjects that might be presented, but
felt time was short, spoke of the little fund
the sisters laid up, a missionary fund in fact,
though the means should be used wisely
and for improvement, mentally, spiritually
and financially, thought the Lord would
not give us means, if we did not make a
success, there were many things that made
us feel akin and and reach out to all the
brotherhood of man and the sisterhood of
woman. Referred specially to the meeting
of the Woman's Congress held on Sunday
in the Art Palace in one of the great halls,
when sixteen ordained women ministers
sat upon the platform representing thirteen
denominations, one was clad in the sacer-
dotal robes of the Episcopal Church, it was
a beautiful sight to see these grand women
thus assembled; the speaker asked the
Lord to bless and restore Sister Richards
(who had not been able to come to the con-
ference) and to bless Brother Richards who
had done so much to elevate woman and to
help us all in the Relief Society; said a few
words in regard to women speaking at
the funerals of the sisters thought it was
quite proper that they should.
	At the close of the Conference, Apostle
Richards made a few appropriate remarks,
said Sister Young's inspiration concerning
the Presidents of Stakes was timely," two
or three visit together in convenient local-
ities, invite each other, and so on, it will be
a mutual benefit and there will be a corps of
laborers under the direction of the President
and her Counselors. The sisters of the
Relief Society are laborers and mothers in
Israel in thought and experience; and
women are more inclined to be
spiritual-minded, than the brethren,
and are more refined,—we have a fore-
taste here of the life that is to come, would
like to mention the National Woman's Relief
Society, you have in it a legal organization
of holding property in the Society; some of us
are afraid of the name, we have grown a
little, and we have a right to the name,
that should not alter the spirit but
strengthen the work, men have been or-
ganized into an Ecelesiatical organization in
wards also stake organizations, it has not
altered things at all, neither will it with
you, but put you into a position to hold
your property, these corporate powers
ought not to confuse you, or lead to differ-
ences: Constantine the Emperor turned over
everything to the law, we have as a society
become national and perhaps will be In-
ternational, this society is a great body and
is of some consequence and standing among
other great Associations, and the name
should correspond." President Richards
then announced the Rev. Howis lecture on
music and morals to be given in the evening
at that place. Singing "Lord Dismiss us
with thy Blessing." Benediction by Apos-
tle F. D. Richards. Conferenoe adjourn-
ed for six months.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th, Ward Assembly 
Hall, Saturday Nov. 18, 1893.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb presided.
The meeting was opened by singing "Arise

[Column 2]
O, Glorious Zion,”&c. Prayer by Sister
Diana Reid. After singing, minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Counselor
Webb gave some excellent instructions to
the sisters and desired them to bear their
testimony that the time be not wasted.
Spoke at some length on Temple work, ad-
vised the sisters to attend to that labor and
closed by saying “Let us be faithful sisters
and not lose all we have labored for, these
many years. Gounselor Elizabeth Steven-
son said we will come here to be educated
and instructed. Felt to praise the Lord
for strength to labor in the Temple, urged
the sisters to put away all light mindedness
and follies, to strive to be refined, for these
are some of the requirements of the king-
dom of God. Prayed that we all might be
faithful, and desired the sisters not to
quench the spirit but speak of the goodness
of God.
	Sister Price, spoke of the goodness of
God to her, and bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. She also desired to
be one with her sisters to the end of the
race.
	Sister Hazon bore a faithful testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, desired to be
yet able to work in the Temple and prayed
that we might all enjoy the good things
prepared for the righteous.
	Sister Illsmough bore her testimony that
Joseph was a prophet of God felt that the
Lord would strengthen her to do good,
prayed God to bless us in this great and
glorious work.
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to endorse all that
had been said to day. Spoke of the work
she was doing in the Temple, felt that all
souls were precious and equal in the sight
of God and then to think that in our weak-
ness, we are enabled to redeem some of
these precious ones. Also gave much
good counsel and encouragment to the
sisters.
	Sister Phelps was thankful for the spirit
of God that she felt with us today, said she
loved to see the faces of her sisters, who
meet here. Was glad that she was able to
meet with them sometimes. Desired to be
humble and faithful to the end.
	Sister Forsythe bore her testimony, re-
joiced that her health was improved that
she could meet with her sisters, desired
that we might all be among the blessed
faithful ones.
	Sister Morris felt to bear her testimony,
was thankful that she had heard and obeyed
the Gospel and testified to the truth of the
same. Made many excellent remarks.
	Counselor E. Stevenson spoke at some
length concerning our boys and girls, the
children of the Covenant, felt that they
would yet perform a mighty work and bear
off the kingdom. Advised the sisters to
properly instruct their children, for many
mighty ones are being raised up, who are
valiant for God and his Kingdom.
	Sisters sang “Mid scenes of confusion”
&c. A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and desired to be faithful. Sisters
Corbett and Ford each bore testimonies true
and faithful and desired to be numbered
with those whom God would honor when
he made up his jewels. Sister Julia Druce
and Sister Workman also bore testimony
and desired to be faithful. Counselor Webb
said to the sisters "go in and work in the
Temple if you have only one name, the
way will open and more will be made
known to you, gave other instructions.”
The meeting was adjourned for two

[Column 3]
weeks. After singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished” &c. the bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister Julia
Pack
LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

HON. C. W. PENROSE.

[Items from his address at the Convention
of the Utah W. S A. held in Salt Lake
City Oct. 5th, 1893.]
	HON. C. W. PENROSE address at W. S.
Convention. The speaker dwelt upon
necessity of organization, upon faith in the 
cause and confidence that it would succeed.
He urged that the work of converting the 
indifferent and skeptical, and inspiring the
lukewarm should go on, and said there is
nothing new to offer in the way of argu-
ment, but advocates of the cause should
study the objections of those opposed to
the franchise and be able to answer them.
There are no arguments against Woman
Suffrage, only objections which can be 
answered. In conclusion he advised the
ladies to refrain from any agitation of the 
suffrage clause in the bill for statehood, as
it might only retard the progress of the
bill without accomplishing their purpose.


UTAH W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The Woman’s Suffrage association met 
in convention at Provo, Mrs. Electa Bul-
lock presiding. Nov 23, 1893.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, recently elected
president, and Mrs. F. S. Richards, first
vice-president of the Territory, were
present, and also quite a number of local
presidents. The object of the meeting was
to nominate county officers and to transact
other county business.
	The results of the nominations were
placed before the house, and the following
are the officers for the new year:
	Electa Bullock president; Mary John
first vice-president; Marilla Daniels second
vice-president: Rebecca Doolan secretary
and correspondent secretary; Mattie Beesley
assistant secretary; Alice M. Wilkins
treasurer; L. L. Dalton chairman executive
committee.
	The chairman introduced Mrs. E. B.
Wells, recently elected Territorial Presi-
dent, who spoke of the retiring president,
Mrs. Kimball, as having been made honarary
president of Utah Territory during her life
time. She then branched out on the great
value a vote possessed in certain places,
and the injustice that no woman regardless
of her business and education, may not
even cast a vote to protect her property.
Onr sanitary condition would be better
when women could have a voice. The
work of police matrons, and the work that
might be done for those who go astray was
referred to. If women study up these
questions they might show our men that
something might be done in this regard, a
great deal better than it is done now.
	“This is suffrage work” said the speaker,
and when we get our suffrage we will but
progress along these lines. We voted as
intelligently as a whole when we had the
franchise as men do. I heard of a
legislator recently, who; when it was sug-
gested to him that there were some laws to
be amended, said with astonishment ‘I
thought we were here to make laws, I did
not know there were any before.’ The


Relief Society has given us so much
practice in organized work, that we are
much better prepared than the women of
other places."
	She referred to Colorado’s recent ad-
vancement; and how soon the women of
that state would stand by the side of
Wyoming in another presidential campaign.
The trend of all women’s work at the
World’s Fair was toward the ballot. The
taking up of some regular work, such as
civil government, and other proper sub-
jects, calling on men for assistance, and
giving them the privilege of membership
was recommended. Also that we draw in
and work harmoniously with all classes of
suffragists.
	Mrs. F. S. Richards, first Territorial vice-
president, made a few appropriate remarks,
following in the lines opened by Mrs. Wells.
She spoke of the many handsome compli-
ments she had received at the World’s
Fair in behalf of the women of Utah, and
the noble work they had done.
	Mrs. Lapish made a few very favorable
remarks.
	The president closed with a broad sum-
ming up and promises for the future.
Reporter E. J.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DAVIS CO. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	THE Convention met at 2 p. m. in the
meeting house at Farmington, President
Lucy A. Clark in the chair. Oct. 27, 1893.
	Singing "Wyoming" from the Suffrage
Song book. "Proud State of the Union,
we love thee, A symbol of Justice thy
name; The folds of our flag wave above
thee, The star of thy greatness to claim."
etc.
	Prayer by Susan Grant. Singing, "Our
country now from thee, We claim our
liberty in freedom's name."
	The minutes of the last annual conven-
tion were read and approved also the
financial report.
	Dora Wessels, Helen Perkins, and Mary
Millard were appointed a committee on
credentials and reported the following named
ladies entitled to seats in the convention:
	Kaysville, Minnie Williams, Ellen Bar-
ton, Sarah B. Layton, Jane Blood, R.
Mansel and Dora Wessels; Farmington,
Elizabeth Coombs, Helen M. Miller, Clara
Stayner, Aurelia S. Rogers and Mary Mil-
lard: Centreville, Margaret Randall; East
Bountiful, Jane Holt; West Bountiful,
Martha Fackrell and Helen Perkins; South
Bountiful, Mary Ann Page, Eliza Nelson,
Maria Hatch, Sarah Howard, Emma Moss,
Phoebe Hales and Rhoda Atkinson. 
	Speeches were made by President Min-
nie Williams, of Kaysville, President
Elizabeth Coombs, of Farmington, Vice-
President Margaret Randall, of Centreville,
President Martha Fackrell, of West Bounti-
ful, Jane Holt, East, and Mary Ann Page,
of South Bountiful.
	Those who had held meetings in their
precincts reported that they had made some
progress in the study of civil government,
history, politics, etc.
	The following officers were elected:
President, Lucy A. Clark; Vice Presidents,
Lizzie Smith, Rose Hatch and Dora Wes-
sels. Secretary Leone Rogers, correspond-
ing Secretary, Hattie Knowlton; Treasurer,
Mary Millard. Auditors, M. E. Knowlton
and Julia Hess. Chairman of executive
committee, Athalia Steed, members of com-
mittee, Minnie Williams, Elizabeth Coombs,

[Column 2]
Margaret Randall, Alice Neville, Maria
Hatch and Ellen Perkins.
	Honorary Vice Presidents, Susan Grant,
Jane Holt, Mary S. Clark, Sarah B.  Lay-
ton, Martha Fackrell and Aurelia S.
Rogers. 
	President L. A. Clark said she was proud
of the record of Woman Suffrage in Utah;
they hold the second place in the nation,
New York being the only state that has an
association with a greater membership,
spoke of the progress of women of the
present day.
	While in Chicago attending the con-
gress of representative women, the grandest
gathering of women ever recorded in the
history of the world, was present at a ses-
sion when fourteen national associations
were represented and two of the fourteen
had head quarters in Utah.
	The National R. S. and the National Y.
L. M. I. Associations. And by comparing
statistics and reports, showed that there
were more organized women in Utah than
in any of the other states or territories.
Truly the advancement of woman will ad-
vance human happiness and prosperity.
Every step she has gained has been ac-
complished not by force or compulsion, for
she works her revolution, with the weapons
of peace and love and with such weapons
of defense her advance may be slow but
must eventually be sure.
	May the flames of equality, that have
been kindled in your bosoms, continue to 
burn steadily and true until all the icebergs
of prejudice with which you are surrounded
shall have melted away, and, "Hasten the
day when freedom's proud banner, pro-
tecting no tyrant shall shadow no slave."
	Song: "The song that reached my
heart," was sweetly rendered by Minnie
Williams, of Kaysville. Essay "Woman
versus Man," by Aurelia S. Rogers. Or-
gan solo by Ella Barton, of Kaysville.
	After singing and benediction the con-
vention adjourned.


NATIONAL-AMERICAN CON-
VENTION.

	THE 26th, Annual Convention of the
National-American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation will be held in Washington, D.
C., at Metzerott’s Music Hall, Feb. 15-20
inclusive, 1894.
	The Government’s recognition of women
in the Board of Managers for the World’s
Columbian Exposition, the World’s Con-
gress of Representative Women—the
greatest convocation of women ever as-
sembled—the participation of women in the
entire series of World’s Congresses, the
gaining of woman suffrage in Colorado,
give to our demand for political equality for
women unprecedented prestige in the world
of thought.
	From this vantage ground let us assemble
in our 26th annual Convention to work for
the realization of an ideal Republic, with
the assurance of success in the near future.
	With the question of woman suffrage
pending in Kansas and New York, it is our
manifest duty to concentrate our efforts up-
on those two States, and one business ses-
sion of the Convention will be devoted to
the consideration of ways and means to
further this object.
	Besides the presidents of the auxiliary
State Associations, the speakers invited are:
Mme. Fanny Zampini Salazar, of Italy, and
Mme. Hanna Korany, of Syria, who


were delegates to the World’s Congress of
Representative Women; Mrs. Carrie Lane
Chapman, who was a most important factor
in the Colorado victory; Rev. Marion
Murdock, Rev. Ida C. Hultin, Rev. Anna
H. Shaw, Mrs. Elizabeth Boynton Harbert
Mrs. Julia ward Howe,  Miss Mary H.
Krout, Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson,
secretary of the King’s Daughters, Mr. H.
B. Blackwell, and others. 
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.


IN WOMAN’S REALM.

	Every lady is thinking about the coming
holidays. What would be the nicest present to
offer? Before deciding remember that health is
to be considered, before everything else. How
can you enjoy a Christmas Dinner or a new dress
if you are not well and happy? DR. DE JOZA's
famous prescription is a dowry to every lady suf-
fering with painful and irregular menstruation.
In order to give those who have not already
tried it an opportunity of doing so, we will send
one trial treatment only to each person for $2.00.
Regular price, $3.00. We send a written guaran-
tee to cure any case, no matter of how long
standing, in two treatments or refund money.
This is the genuine prescription of the famous
Dr. DE JOZA; hundreds of testimonials at your
service. This world renowned treatment was
discovered in 1849, and has been adopted in all
principal hospitals of France All orders and
inquiries must be sent to the “LADY MANAGER,
SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO., Salt Lake City,
Utah.” Write for particulars and remember
that we are responsible for our guarantee. Lady
manager wanted in every city and town.


ANOTHER RELIEF SOCIETY.

	MINUTES of the organization of the
Relief Society of South Taylorsville held in
the School house Oct. 31st, 1893.
	Bishop Heber Bennion presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing, “Praise to the man.”
Prayer by Bishop Heber Bennion. Singing
“Now let us rejoice.”
	Bishop Bennion then spoke upon the
necessity of organizing a Society in this
part of the ward, and upon the duties and
strength of the Relief Society, in the
several wards.
	Sister Pixton made the motion that Sis-
ter Mary Parker be appointed president;
and a unanimous vote was taken.
	Sister Parker was then set apart by
Bishop Heber Bennion.
	Sister Jane Bringhurst was selected as
first counselor and set apart to that position
by counselor William Panter.
	Sister Mary Palmer was chosen second
counselor and set apart by Bishop Heber
Bennion.
	Sister Sarah E. Bringhurst was selected
as secretary and set apart by Bishop Ben-
nion.
	Sister Alice Newbold was chosen treasur-
er and set apart by counselor William Pant-
er.
	There were present, Bishop Heber Ben-
nion and counselors, Sisters Julia C. Howe
and Lydia D. Alder, of Salt Lake City,
Sister Elizabeth Pixton, Sister Mary Ben-
nion, Sister Webster, all of whom spoke
very instructively to the Sisters.
	Services closed by singing “The Spirit
of God,” benediction by Elder William
Parker.
ALICE J. HARKER, Sec.


PRIMARY ANNUAL.
	The 14th, Ward Primary Association
held its annual meeting Sunday evening
Dec. 3rd 1893, under the direction of the


President Ella W. Hyde; present were the
Bishopric of the ward, Counselors Clara C.
Cannon and Camilla Cobb of the Territorial
and stake organization, parents of the
children and others. Meeting opened by 
singing “Gather them into the fold.”
Prayer by Master Fara Fox, singing
“Trust the children.”
	A very interesting program was carried
out as follows. Bessie Crismon and Ray
Workman gave a recitation entitled “Two
little welcomes.’’ Fera Fox gave a lecture
on “Prayer.” Sentiments, called Resolu-
tions were repeated in concert by the
children, conducted by Joan Campbell.
Freddie Wilcox gave a recitation entitled,
“Catching the colt.” A motion song was
given by Frankie and Georgie Young.
The articles of Faith were repeated by
Alice Cannon, Hattie Folsom and
Frankie Young. Little Roy Taylor gave a
recitation entitled “Three little cats.”
	An interesting sketch of the life of Eliza
R. Snow was read by Lyle Young, followed
with a song by Ruby Workman.
Questions and answers on the “Word of
Wisdom” was next given, questions asked
by R. M. Fox, answered by eight girls.
Vida and Lester Fox gave an original
dialogue composed by R. M. Fox. A duet
was nicely rendered by Daisy Fox and
Minnie Goss the children joining in the
chorus. Ivy Crismon gave a rectation and
Master Bertie Clive a Violin Solo. After
which interesting and encouraging re-
marks were made by Counselors, Camilla
Cobb, Clara C. Cannon and Bishop George
H. Taylor. Singing “Dare to do right.”
Benediction by Master Joseph Goss.
	On the following Friday afternoon Dec.
8th, a picnic was given to the children of
the Primary, in the basement of the 14th,
Ward Hall, when between sixty and
seventy children were present. After the
opening exercises, refreshments were served
and games engaged in by the little folks un-
til a late hour when they were dismissed,
and returned to their homes with happy
beaming faces, the officers feeling well re-
paid for their labors.
	E. W. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference of Wayne
Stake, convened Aug. 28th, at 2 p. m.
President Jane S. Coleman presiding, the
choir sang “We thank thee O, God for a
prophet,” prayer offered by Elder Joseph
Eccersley. Singing “O God we raise to
thee.” This being our first Conference
there were no minutes to read. The
President said she was pleased to meet with
the sisters of the Relief Society and also
the Brethren, spoke upon the duties of the
sisters, hoped we would be able to ac-
complish much good, appreciated our Stake
organization, as a great blessing, also
spoke on faith and good works.  Verbal
Reports were given, President Louisa Tay-
lor, Fremont, Margaret Taylor, Loa, Helen
Maxfield, East Loa, Coun. Mary Bullard,
Thurber, Prest. Mary Ann Lords, Blue
Valley, all reported their branches in good
condition and the spirit of union prevail-
ing.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks, reported for
Cainsville and Aldridge, spoke favorable,
made remarks upon the great blessings we
enjoy, spoke of the good instructions given,
hoped we would practice them in our


lives and increase in faith and the gifts of
the Gospel.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth, of Loa,
said it was a pleasure to meet with the
Relief Society, was gratified to see so
many brethren present, gave much good
counsel to parents, spoke also upon sus-
taining the WOMAN'S EXPONENT by sub-
scribing for it, spoke upon other subjects
pertaining to our holy religion practical and
good.
	Counselor G. Bastian of the stake Presi-
dency, spoke in loving terms of the sisters
of the Relief Society, their good works
their charity in an appieciative way gener-
ally. 
	Our esteemed President Willis E.
Robinson, made encouraging remarks on
the labors of the sisters had been edified
with the instructions given, prayed the
blessing of God to rest upon the Relief
Society in all its branches.
	Singing “O say what is Truth.” Bene- 
diction by Elder U. V. Stewart. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
Florence M. Williams, Stake Secy.


MISS MARGATET IRWIN, one of the As-
sistant Labor Commissioners of England,
reports that in the tailors’ workshop of the
Co-operative Society of Glasgow, the wo-
men were lately taking work at less wages
than men, in work usually done by men.
The men struck because their demand
that the women should be dismissed was
not granted. The Tailors’ Union made
peace by arranging that the women should
be paid the same wages as men. This is a
good way of settling troubles.
	IMMEDIATELY after suffrage was given
to the women of Colorado, the sixty-eight
leagues of the Equal Suffrage Association
resolved themselves into leagues for polit-
ical study. The book selected is John
Fiske’s Civil Government.—Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

Editor Exponent:
	IT is with regret we have to announce the
death of one of our number. So sudden and
unexpectedly Sister Sarah P. Crosby died at
her home in Panguitch Garfield Co. Utah on
Nov. 13th 1893 of pneumonia after a severe ill-
ness of three days.
	Deceased was born in Iowa Sep. 20th, 1848; was
the daughter of Lorenzo and Beulah Clark and
wife of Jesse W. Crosby Jr. was the mother of
ten children, two of whom passed away in infancy.
Her husband, five children with many relatives
and friends surrounded her death bed powerless
to render any relief. Three absent sons arrived
soon after.
	Sister Sarah has been an active worker in the
Relief Society, holding the office of Counselor to
our Stake President, Sister Barbara Myers, since
its organization on June 5th, 1878, has also acted
as Stake Secretary until our last Conference, Aug.
31st, when she was released from that position by
her own request, feeling it too much responsibility.
Although very feeble in health the past year her
energies seemed doubly increased in her public
labors. In nll our associations she will be greatly
missed whether public or private; she was a 
regular attendant at all meetings, and we know
all is well with her.
	Rest in peace dear sister,
		Your work is nobly done,
	Life's battle has been fought
		Eternal peace well wom.
	Although we miss you sadly,
		Since your parting gave us pain,
	We are reconciled in knowing
		Our loss is Heaven's gain.
BARBARA MYERS, Prest.
H. A. CROSBY, Cor. Sec.


MEN like women to reflect them, no
doubt; but the woman who can only re-
flect a man, and is nothing in herself, will
never be of much service to him. The
woman who cannot stand alone is not likely
to make either a good wife or mother.—
George Macdonald.


ERRATA:—In an article entitled (Mesa
Items) I am represented as saying, that the
Relief Society Hall, cost $150.00 instead
of $1,500,00 (one thousand, five hundred
dollars) which makes a slight difference in
the cost, I fear there would not have been
much of a building per 150.
			Yours truly,
				SARAH M. POMEROY.


HEALTH FOR WOMEN.

	THE Viavi Home Treatment is a certain
cure for all female diseases and uterine
troubles. It has cured thousands of wo-
men who have despaired of ever getting
relief. The treatment is applied by the
patient herself, causes no inconvenience
and is absolutely safe and reliable—Cor-
respondence solicited. For full particulars
address Dr. E. B. Ferguson 121 B. Street
Salt Lake City.


A Card
TO THE Ladies!
	DEAR LADY: If you are troubled with painful
and irregular periods take DR. DE JOZA'S World- 
renowned Prescription. We give writter guaran- 
tee to permanently cure in two treatmen[--] or re- 
fund money. Price for one trial treatment $2.00.
Write or call on Lady Manager.
SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO.,
			56 West Second South St., 
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Patients unsuccessfully treated or imposed up- 
on by others especially invited to call.

DUNFORD’S
Have the Cheapest and Best Lines of
SHOES AND SLIPPERS 
In the City. 
New Store. 57 S. Main St.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY 
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1894.	No. 11.


CONTENTS:
	Woman’s Exponent—S. W. Richards. New
England Thanksgiving—Aunt Em. The Abuses
of Christmas 1893—Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Some of our Lady Friends—S. T. Brimhall. Wo-
man Suffrage Column—Mary E. Irvine. Semi-
Monthly Meeting—L. D Alder. U. W. P. Club—
Ella W. Hyde. Party at Sandy. The Reconstruction
of the Government. An Important Meeting—Mary
Wells. Woman’s Rights—E.H. Lyon. Editorial
Notes.
	EDITORIAL.—The Tendency of the Age.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY.—In the Celestial City—Lydia D Alder.
A Welcome to the old Folks. Message from
New Zealand—L. M. Hewlings.


[Column 1]
	IN THE CELESTIAL CITY. 

		A REVERIE.

SAY where is now my baby girl
	Of twenty years ago? 
Who came one morning beautiful
	When the world was all aglow?
She brought such love and gladness
	To that parental nest;
The Angels came and left her
	Awhile on earth to rest.
How we thoughtful watched her
	Grow lovely day by day!
The sky was shadowed in her eyes 
	Around her mouth the dimples play,
Her hair was long and fell in curls
	Around her beauteous face,
Her voice was low and tuneful
	Her form was full of grace.
So to womanhood she grew
	This joy of earthly home
Our heart strings close around her twined—
	So lovely had she grown,
It seemed that far off Heaven
	Shone out those lovelv eyes.
And when you drank their beauties in
	You looked in Paradise.
Her spirit true and beautiful
	Crowned with bliss that home,
Where love so deep and lasting
	Around this flower had grown.
Then came a day, can I forget,
	A cloud came o’er the scene,
And rested on this loved one
	The sun and her between.
And when it lifted she had gone,
	The angels had come down,
And called her back to Heaven,
	To wear a glorious crown,
I stood beside that bed
	Of death nor sensed my woe—
Her eyes gazed on the Glorious Day—
	Not now for me to know.
Oh! where is now my baby girl
	With brown and curly hair
With face so fair and winsome?
	Gone from earth oh, where?
The angel messenger of death, 
	Has borne her far away,
From earth with all its sorrow—  
	To realms of endless day.
Oh, God keep all her loved ones
	Left here on earth to mourn,

[Column 2]
So they can see and greet her
	In the Resurrection Morn,
She walks the Golden City
	Her elder sister by her side,
And when God makes up his jewels
	Will be a glorious bride.
And what of me, the mother
	Whose sorrow knows no rest?
Methinks I’ll bow before the throne
	And say “God knoweth best.’’
Then when my wee, wee baby
	Again lies on my breast
And bonny Frank with golden curls
	Close to my side is pressed,
My heart will melt in happy sighs—
	I’ll joyous wait for all the rest.
					Lydia D. Alder.
November, 1893.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	What, do as this caption implies: Ex-
pose woman! Yes, she will endure the
most critical, exposition, when compared
with man, as ruler over her. We are will-
ing to accept the compliment which is ever
due to her, and heed the poetic advice;
		“Be to her faults a little blind,
		Be to her virtues very kind;"
	for her virtues are of that historical re-
nown which justly elevate her in the
estimation of her appreciative companion.
	When in the garden, woman was master
of the situation; for a time she held the
destiny of a world in her hands, and not
until man yielded to her persuasive power
did she commit that destiny to the keeping
of her lord. Then with all the loveliness
with which man was surrounded, and even
the tree of life within his reach, there was,
to him, nothing so touching to his divine
nature, not yet humanized; nothing so
desirable in his eyes as the lovely form and
earnest eloquence of that truthful advocate
pleading for his society, to share with her
the conditions by which, and by which alone,
they could become as Gods, knowing both
good and evil, and thereby inherit those
attributes without which there is no God.
	Justice and mercy can be developed only
where good and evil are experienced: both
of which are necessary to the agency of
man.
	Woman may well be proud today of the
part she acted in the glorious panorama of
human existence, she chose her part and
played it well, to the end that man might
be, and have like knowledge as the Gods.
	To her the world is greatly indebted for
what man is, for what he has been, and for
what he may be. From the nursing babe
to the fully developed man of physical and
mental stature, of moral and intellectually
developed genius, by which he becomes the
lord of creation; woman as mother. is the
great factor and promoter of human great-
ness, in the evolutions of our race. Her
influence is stamped upon the character of
man from early childhood, and the influence
of that character is felt in society, leaving
its impress where it may be felt for the
elevation of all social intercourse, through
all the realms of human existence.

[Column 2]
	Though she may seek for political in-
fluence it is only for the laudable purpose of
extending her field of usefulness; and her
desire for power, is only that it may be
used to abate many of the social evils to
which the race of man is in bondage today.
And as a rule we may say that her desire is
as strong, her pleadings as sincere and con-
sistent, as when she plead with her lord in
the garden of Eden; and would, to the well
being of the world today, be as fruitful to
the perpetuity and happiness of man, as it
then was to his existence.
		Then her desire was of the man,—
			Come go with me, and so shall we,
			Fulfill our God-llke destiny;
		To be alone, with good unknown:
			How worthless such a life must be!
	But now she pleads for political recogni-
tion, and says:
		Give us the power and we’ll dispel,
		The reign of tyrants born of hell:
		From men’s unblushing demon deeds,
		Her earnest soul for freedom pleads.
	While woman’s entreaties and influence
have done so much, and would do more,
still for the world of man, her rebuke is no
less a power in restraining the devotee of sin.
	Her tearful eye of entreaty may melt in-
to the keenest sympathy, the stout and
possibly the stubborn heart of man’s
kindled passions; but her stern rebuke in
defence of honor, virtue, and the right,
will fill with awe the most impassioned
enemy, that would intrude upon her peace
and domestic virtues. Her weapons of
defence are indeed powerful when contrasted
or arrayed against the impudence of the
intruder upon the sacred precincts of her
innocence, and the sanctuary of her love.
	Her will is mighty to conquer and sub-
due the wrong, while in her legitimate field 
she is encouraged to exercise it, and that
field may well be extended with safety and
profit to the race, of which she is mother,
and the guardian of their youthful
experience.
		Let woman’s grace and love combine,
		To shed a lustre o’er mankind;
		And kindle fires to ever burn
		In every heart, the truth to learn.
	With woman’s sensitive nature and
powers of comprehension; her enduring
love which like God’s, enables her to be-
come endeared even to those who may be 
the cause of her troubles; her keen ap-
preciation and discernment of both the
right, and the wrongs of life; are but
exhibitions of her nature, which is ever
tending to the development of the divine;
and which indicates her true relationship to
that divinity of which man so often proves
himself a stranger, that it may well be
said, without her, “man is not in the Lord;”
neither can he become legitimately a lord
over and in the midst of intelligent
beings.
		Man of the dust was earthly made,
		Woman from man:—a higher grade;
		Man has the stern and master mind,
		Woman is plastic, loving, kind;
		Man’s nature is to rule, have sway—
		Woman’s to love and him obey;
		Man has the burden of toil to bear.
		Woman his love and cares to share.


No earthly good was e’er designed,
Man should enjoy without her kind.
Man may desire, may know, and then,
Woman must bear the souls of men;
And man the woman still must know,
To fill his mission here below.
All earth is witness she has filled
Her mission, as by Heaven willed,
From first to last, from Eden’s bower,
Her grace and love have been her power;
By which her reign may be complete,
O’er man’s humanity and vain deceit;
And he whose soul can love her well.
May find a home where angels dwell
She led the way for man to go,
That good and evil he might know,
By which, like God he might become,
And live again with Him at home.
S. W. RICHARDS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NEW ENGLAND THANKSGIVING.
	THE early settlers of New England were
devotedly religious and acknowledged the
hand of Providence in everything that
transpired and were especially grateful in
being saved from starvation in the wilder-
ness and thankful for the harvest of grain
that crowned their labors during the first
years of their sojourn in the new country. 
It was as early as 1633 that they issued an
official appointment for a day of Thanks-
giving, after the harvest which was always
in November falling upon different dates
but always on Thursday, the idea suggest-
ting itself from the Hebrew feast of
tabernacles, feast of ingathering at the end
of the year.
	The Dutch governors too sometimes ap-
pointed Thansgiving—at any rate it grew
to be a national day during the Revolution
and was annually recommended by Con-
gress, but when peace was proclaimed it
became only a matter of taste, except in
New England where it has always been
rigidly observed. During the civil war
Abraham Lincoln issued a national
proclamation of the annual thanksgiving
and since that time the custom has prevailed
always falling on the last Thursday in
November.
	In my childhood thanksgiving was the
great day of the closing year and we were
not allowed to celebrate Christmas, lest we
should be thought ’Piscopals or Church of
England people or worst of all Roman
Catholics. One thing in which it differed
from Christmas was the giving of presents,
it was also more strictly religious. Every-
thing possible was done beforehand, and
we always went to meeting on that day as
much as though it were Sunday, and the
singers were prepared by careful practice
with anthems of praise and the sermons
were admonitions to the people to be
thankful to God. But usually the people
went from the meeting house to the places
of public amusement or the loaded dinner
tables where feasting and visiting inter-
mingling of relatives and friends, songs,
speeches, dancing and mirth occupied the
remainder of the day, games of all kinds by
the children in which often the older ones
joined were also customary, and the even-
ings were spent socially, nuts, apples,
molasses candy (or in my day maple sugar
candy was more common) helped to while
away the time, pop corn too was one of the
luxuries—and the Thanksgiving dinner
was never complete without roast turkey
and pig, baked beans, mince and pumpkin pie,
and plum pudding, made with rice or
Boston crackers and other almost innumera-
ble varieties of nuts, fruits vegetables etc.
	Outdoor games by the boys were also in-
dulged in, some of them not of a very 

[Column 2]
elevating character. Family parties were
the most enjoyable, the married daughters
and sons, coming home with their little
ones to join the family circle, where, the
reminiscences of the past were recalled,
and the old songs familiar to childhood
sung again, often one remembering only a
verse, or a line but all joining in a sort of
medley; the new babies came home at
thanksgiving time to grandma and grandpa
and sometimes four generations would be
present at these happy reunions. Visiting
New England only a few years ago I
found that this custom of primitive
times was still observed and with far more
favor among the Puritanical families
than Christmas, for though they are be-
coming more and more English in manner,
if you go into the villages especially, the
plain country people will tell you without
the least reservation, that keeping
Christmas with all sorts of jolly festivities
is Roman Catholic, and they hate their
ways and all their forms and ceremonies.
But we do not have too many holidays or
too much pleasure with Christmas, Thanks-
giving, 4th of July, New Year’s and all
the other national days Washington’s
birthday and all our own birthdays, and
the 24th, of July our Pioneer Day.
					AUNT EM.


[Column 1]
THE ABUSES OF CHRISTMAS
IN 1893.

	WHILE a chorus of voices is chanting the
holiday joys and the pleasant memories of
children, I feel impelled to disturb the gen-
eral harmony with one discordant note of
protest and complaint.
	I fain would rouse my countrywomen to
the thought of the serious abuses that have
grown out of the once simple customs that
made Christmas one of the most charming
days of the year. Amusing letters, little
tokens of affection, have all given place to
most extravagant presents from those who
have plenty of money, and elaborate pieces
of embroidery and worsted work from
those who have neither time nor strength to
waste The pleasures our mothers had in
the give and take of a few trifles has now
developed into a stern necessity, making
wholesale Christmas presents as imperative
as the laws of the Medes and Persians.
The season is a dread to paterfamilias, be-
cause of the terrible strain on his purse
strings, and to the women of the house-
hold because of the labor involved. How
anxious they look, as they press their way
through the crowds in the stores from day to
day, and though they go home with all the
bundles they can carry, there is always
some one forgotten, which compels another
visit to the busy marts of trade, and another
appeal to the well drained purse of some
long-suffering son of Adam.
	And although women seem wild with de-
light in spending every cent they can wring
out of anyone, you will hear them say,
“Oh dear me!; here comes Christmas day
again!” “I am hardly rested from last
year!” and “Now I must get presents
somehow for at least two dozen different
friends!” “I can’t afford to go to Tiffany’s
and buy beautiful presents, and so I must
work early and late to make them.” Who
would value a present given as a necessity?
It should be an offering of love, a real
pleasure both to giver and receiver.
	The delight of children in an ideal St.
Nicholas, who puts a few little toys in their

[Column 2]
stockings, is all very well, but when the
custom, with a large circle of grown people,
becomes imperative, it is a tax on one’s
friendship, and an unmitigated nuisance.
	I spent a few weeks at a sanitarium one
year and noticed all the nervous women,
for whom the physicians were doing their
uttermost to restore to health and comfort,
sitting in the parlors, with the thermometer
up in the seventies, working away intently
hour after hour to get some satin pincush-
ions and velvet slippers embroidered. I said
throw them to the winds and go up on
top of the house and lie down on their cots
in the sunshine. They exclaimed “What
would you do about Christmas presents?”
“Give none,” I replied, “there is no neces-
sity in the case. If you wish to remind
your friends of your existence, or to show
that you remember them, send your card
with ‘Merry Christmas,’ or ‘best wishes of
the season.” If you were my friends I
should rather get your cards than embroidery
that had taxed your vital forces and your
optic nerves for weeks in your present con-
dition.
	If you are always troubled with spasms
of emotional benevolence at Christmas time
send some meat and vegetables to the poor,
apples, nuts and candy to their children,
the money you spend in satin, silks and
bright worsteds would cheer many a fire-
side and make the children inexpressibly
happy.
	Christmas and wedding presents and
flowers at funerals have come to be such a
tax and nuisance in their extravagance and
excess that sensible people, not wishing
their friends to feel compelled to observe
the custom, now say on their cards of invi-
tation “No presents,” or “no flowers.” If
rich friends wish to send us a check for a
hundred dollars or more, we might receive
it with pleasure, as it requires no labor to
draw a check, nor privation to give of their
abundance.
	But a present of an elaborate piece of
worsted work, say of “Rebecca at the
Well” over which a dear friend had strained
her optic nerves for weeks, and inhaled
impalpable particles of arsenic from the
bright green worsteds, would give me no
pleasure. On the contrary it would be a
source of sorrow every time I looked at it.
I would not work a cat on the toe of a slip-
per for the one I love best on earth. I
would rather give or take a live cat.
	Standing in a book store a few days before
Christmas one year, I heard a wife say to
her young husband, “I must get a present
for Lucy.” “No,” said he, “I have al-
ready spent much more than we can afford.
Come, let us go.” But she insisted, and
lingered in spite of his appeals. I felt so
sorry for the man, probably a clerk on a
small salary, that I hurried away. Sup-
pose, dear ladies, you try the experiment
for one year and give no presents, and see
what a relief it is, and what a saving to
your husband’s pocket-book, as well as of 
your own time and temper. At all events
in these hard times curtail somewhat your
expenses and labors in this direction.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton.


THE South Carolina Senate has been de-
bating a bill to enable married women to
make contracts. One of the Senators
pointed out that the existing law places
women on the same footing with lunatics.
But the bill was rejected.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WELCOME TO THE OLD FOLKS.

YE honored veterans! ye aged sires!
We bid ye welcome in our midst today,
Prophets, Apostles, God's own noblemen,
With grand dames by your sides, we welcome
	all.
Full three score years and ten you've sojourned
	here,
You've reached the alloted time to mortals
	given,
And still through Father's goodness ye are here
To bless us with your smiles, as rays from heaven.
Ye have borne the heat and burden of the day,
Have braved life's battles with true faith in God;
Stern duty for your motto; ye have proved
That ye could bow beneath His chastening rod.
'Twould fail my humble pen to tell all ye have
	wrought;
To tell what ye have not done, would be easier
	far;
But the crowning glory of your lives sublime,
Lies in the rearing of our Temples, four.
Like Simeon of old, ye now can say,
"Let us depart in peace" for we have seen
The Temple of our God 'mid mountains reared,
And swelled the hosannahs to his holy name.
O noble fathers, mothers ye have set
For us to emulate, examples grand;
Thy children's children, walking in thy steps,
Shall ready be to obey all God's command.
And were it not that death is passed on all,
How gladly would we always keep ye here,
Not still to plant and labor, but to bless,
And in our days of trial give us cheer,
But soon you'll pass beyond the shadowy river,
Reunion hold with friends who once were here;
And as you meet with hand clasps, still rememb-
	er
The Old Folk's parties on this earthly sphere.
And we too shall join you in that circle,
	Just kindly take us by the hand, and say:
You'r welcome to our King's Grand Party;
	What recompense! for welcomes given to day.
July 18th, 1893.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	MESSAGE FROM NEW ZEALAND.

	[Containing news of the bill bestowing full suf-
frage upon women passed by both houses of
Legislature and signed by the Governor.]
	I was down on the beach, this morning,
		Walked alone by the sounding sea,
	And from the wild waves in their sobbing,
		A message was wafted to me.
	It came from a far-away Country, 
		That is washed by billowy waves,
	A land rising Queen-like and lovely,
		Far out from the sea and its graves.
	It told of the grave and the noble,
		Of manhood and womanhood true,
	Now striving to make the world better,
		With freedom for all held in view.
	Regardless of sex or of station,
		Of whatever caste, or of creed,
	They'll silence the voice of oppression,
		And work for humanity’s need.
	O, glorious message! most welcome;
		A forecast of vision sublime, 
	Of a full free emancipation
		At last of all nations and climes.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Chicago, Oct. 1893.


[Column 1]
SOME OF OUR LADY FRIENDS.

	THERE are among our Mexican lady
friends some very intelligent and interest-
ing women. Donna Francisca Vega or

[Column 2]

“Panchita” as she is familiarly called,
is a widow lady of about thirty years. She
married when about fifteen years of age
and one year afterward was left a widow
by the accidental death of her husband
who was one of the prominent men of the
state, he having had a wife before “Pan-
chita” and a family of several children who
love their step-mother as dearly as they
could have done their own mother. Those
children are all married and live in El Paso
and Chihuahua. They often come to Casas
Grandes to see Panchita and look out for
her welfare. Once while we lived at Casas
Grandes and one of her step-daughters
came to see her, they resolved to take a
ride over to the colony and we were invited
to go along so we fixed up the baby and
twelve year old daughter. Soon the large
old fashioned coach came bouncing up to
the door and we were soon comfortably seat-
ed and started out with the two ladies
Panchita’s brother was coachman and
seemed to know just how to manage his
four mules as they glided along up and
down the hills. The Chihuahua lady was
quite interested in informing herself about
our people. We arrived in the colony had
a good visit and returned home in the
evening; felt that we had spent a very pro-
fitable day with two refined ladies. The
Mexican ladies are very fond of their
friends and never forgot a favor; they are
very sensitive and inclined like ourselves to
be jealous. I must not forget to say that
“Panchita” is a model lady, very polite,
and esteems virtue as beyond price; she lives
with her father and mother and is their
only daughter, she generally teaches a
small private school of little girls. We
happened in the other day and were sur-
prised to see girls so small doing such hand-
some fancy work, of lace, flowers, work on
card, and canvas, it would be a credit to
any children.
	We remember next our dear friend Julia,
she is a mother to everybody and takes
pride in doing charitable deeds, she came
over here the other day to see her ‘‘com-
adre” as she calls us, and she was really
taken up with the industry and neatness of
our thriving colony, and expressed herself
as much pleased with all that she saw. We
entertained herself and daughter the best
we could, and she went away feeling quite
happy.
	We must not forget Don Victoria a dear
little beauty, the wife of Don Dolores Hi-
dalgo. Her eyes are bright and sparkling
and her pretty wavy brown hair is always
neatly combed and she is in general
neat and clean, and very intelligent and I
think that she could represent her sex and
“Paiganas” quite as honorably as most any
lady in any land; but women’s rights is
scarcely thought of in Mexico, it is wo-
man’s right here to be strictly obedient to her
husband, and as a general thing they are,
he does as he pleases and she tamely sub-
mits, that is how we account for such sub-
missive and often cowardly sons, as we
often meet among the natives; crush liberty
of thought and action out of the mothers,
and you make cowards of their sons, but
this is not the invariable rule in Mexico, for
there are many liberal-minded men in this
nation who delight in respecting women
and protecting them.
	The most prevalent error here is that 
labor is looked upon by the better class as
degrading to woman, which mistake often
leads to immorality and crime. What we

[Column 3]
want to impress upon the minds of our
Mexican lady friends is, that it is honorable
to learn some trade, or several if necessary,
so that they can gain an honorable living,
and save themselves soul and body; and
that labor is honorable, and saving to the
moral culture of the nation. Our people in
the colonies have set this example before
them and they are beginning to realize it;
we see many of the Mexican ladies making
straw hats and other articles that are use-
ful. More anon.
						S. T. Brimhall.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

S. L. C. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. A. held Dec. 19th,
in 13th, Ward Hall President McFar-
lane in the chair. “Sang “Proud state
of the Union,” prayer C. C. R. Wells.
Sang “Come, come away.” Roll called
and minutes of November meeting read
and approved. Discussion followed as to a
place of meeting. Mrs. McCune offered
her parlor, which was accepted with the
hearty approval of all. Vice President
Druce was interested in this work and
would like to see the franchise extended
woman at an early day, thought we ought
to educate ourselves so that we could vote
intelligently, read from The Woman’s
Tribune a good article on Woman’s
Movement. Vice President Price made
some very intelligent remarks on fallen
women, wished something could be done
to help them to a better life, also spoke of
the needs existing at the present time in
consequence of so many unemployed.
Vice Prest. Eardley thought we ought to
be more parliamentary in our meeting
referred to some club of boys and girls
she had listened to, was surprised at the
intelligent manner in which they conducted
their meeting, referred to the subject that
Mrs. Price spoke upon, thought many of
them could be reclaimed if they were
dealt with kindly. President Mc. Farlane
followed on the same subject, would like to
see women get the ballot then we could
work better for all, had noticed a great im-
provement in women, some men can say
the right thing at the right time, John G.
Carlyle was one of this kind; he was
possessed of tact and if he had to refuse a
request, one went away feeling as good as
if it had been granted, we should try to do
good in a quiet way, read an article from,
The Inter Ocean. C. C. R. Wells sug-
gested that each one inform herself upon
the qualifications of a voter. Moved to
adjourn until the third Tuesday in January
at Mrs. McCune’s, 270 West South Temple
—at 2 p. m.
	MARY E. IRVINE, Sec.


IT is announced from Washington that
the Secretary of the Interior has resolved
to abate the smoke nuisance in his depart-
ment, and that henceforth smoking by the
official force during office hours is to be
prohibited. The clerk devoted to the
cigarette, cigar or pipe must decide whether
his smoke or his job is the more valuable to
him. This praiseworthy precedent by the
Secretary of the Interior might well be fol-
lowed in all the government departments.
—National Temperance Advocate.
DISPATCHES from Italy foreshadow a 
general revolutionary movement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (melia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
     Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
[-]ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 15, 1894.


[Column 1]
THE TENDENCY OF THE AGE.
	THE peculiar condition of the country at
the present time, on account of the financial
depression is calculated to call attention to
the why’s and wherefore’s that have
brought about this state of things, and to
those who study the matter carefully some
remedy must necessarily be sought for, and
if possible found, or some method of adjust-
ment of labor and compensation, arrived at,
or some more economic way of living and
of expending the wealth of the world,
that there may be sufficient for all.
	Women should interest themselves in 
this great problem, for really they are the
most deeply interested party, the ones who
are most likely to suffer from the disarrange-
ment of conditions that throw people out of
employment, and force them to go hither
and thither for work, or to seek their
fortunes, by sea or by land poor or other-
wise.
	It seems remarkable at the present day
that women cannot see that it would be
well for them to have an intelligent opinion
on these subjects, and at least to find out
whether the womanly element diffused,
and fine discriminating sense of justice
possessed by the sex would not help solve
these difficult questions.
	To be sure, some do see the need of wo-
man’s help in affairs of state, but the
multitude are not converted to the idea of
political equality. And yet the crisis is
coming, the truth has already dawned upon
some who had been very indifferent previous
to this Columbian year, and it is an
acknowledged fact that the trend of the en-
tire Exposition work was in the direction of
equal rights for all. Women proved their
executive ability on the Board of Lady
Managers to the perfect satisfaction of all
concerned, and it is universally admitted
that women are more economical in ex-
penditures than men. That fact alone un-
der existing circumstances would count
greatly in their favor. Not only the
National Board of Lady Managers acquit-
ted themselves creditably in their manage-
ment, but the State Boards and Lady Com-
missioners and women engaged on Com-
mittees, and last though by no means least
the great Congress of women; its manage-
ment entirely under the direction of women.
That Woman’s Congress stands pre-eminent
among all the host of Congresses that came
after. It had no precedent to follow for
such an one had never been held, the world
had not seen its like, and is it not most
absurd to refuse to such women as Mrs.

[Column 2]
Palmer, Mrs. Henrotin, Miss Anthony,
Mrs. Sewall, Mrs. Avery and their 
colleagues the ballot, by means of which so
much might be accomplished towards mak-
ing women independent or at least equally
so with men in industrial pursuits? Yet 
these heroic and magnificent women are
powerless to carry a measure except through
their persuasive eloquence, or womanly
shrewdness and tact. We are not giving
any reasons why women should be political
equals, but simply calling attention to the
perfect indifference with which the majority 
of women view this matter. They simply
will not look into the subject, they have not
time, or its too much trouble, or its not the
proper thing, yet when some serious
difficulty presents itself, they are compelled
to come forward and “lend a hand’’ for the
time being, but they even then refuse in
many instances to think seriously and study
the cause though they see the effect.
	Men agree that there must be a radical
change of some sort, yet cannot predict in
what way it is to come; peacable methods
are best, and women are generally for peace,
that would be one grand element in public
affairs a peace policy.
	Whether women are prepared or not for
the responsibility of suffrage the tendency
of the times is in that direction, and the wise
and farseeing realize and can appreciate the
necessity for preparation. Every individual
woman who has the best interests of the
community in which she lives and of the
great common wealth of the Republic at
heart, should in some definite way inform
herself as to the laws and measures that
exist, first in her own locality and then in
the state and the United States. It is not
enough to be familiar with generalities,
most of us are very fond of ancient history,
but know very little of the history of the 
time in which we are actually living.
	The women of the State of New York
are carrying on a vigorous campaign in the
interests of the franchise and if perseverance
energy and pluck will win, then they will
surely achieve a signal triumph. A state
that has such illustrious women to lead the
hosts onward as Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony ought not to fear defeat. What a
glorious victory for women would be the
Empire State with woman suffrage in its
platform, and what a magnificent recom-
pense for the life long labors of the two 
distinguished heroines and chiefs in the 
suffrage cause, Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony would such a victory be; and cer-
tainly the imperative needs of the day and
the hour demand some potent power to im-
fuse into the body politic.
	The women of Utah who exercised the
right of franchise for so long a period of
time must surely be better informed in re-
gard to its advantages than those who never
have had the practical experience in its use
and methods. One would think having
had the educational benefit of the ballot
such women should be able to speak advis-
edly on the subject, and persuade the timid,
doubting class and convince the thoughtless
and indifferent ones of the real need of the
ballot for women that all may join together
in one great phalanx to secure equal rights
and privileges for all classes of citizens ir-
respective of sex. That woman may no
longer be classed with idiots, lunatics and
criminals in the body politic.


[Column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

THE Dunford Shoe Co. whose store is at

[Column 2]
57. S. Main St. are offering great induce-
ments in the sale of shoes of the finest
quality as well as useful, ordinary and
durable kinds. The latest styles too in all
footwear of every kind and description can
be found in this pioneer shoe store, and the
prices arranged for the next thirty days are
at the actual Factory cost, and are without
doubt the lowest ever offered to the public
in this City. Remember friends this
business is managed by a woman and should
certainly receive the patronage of the
ladies, especially as it is a reliable and well-
managed institution.
	THE Stake Secretaries in all the several
Stakes of Zion are now reminded that it is
time to send in reports to be compiled for
the April Conference from the Relief Society,
throughout all its Stakes and also from
branches where there is no Stake organiza-
tion. These reports should be made out
for the entire year 1893, from January first
to December 31st. Secretaries please take
special notice, direct all reports to this of-
fice, and send them in just as soon as pos-
sible, that there may be no delay in the
compilation of a full and complete report of
the entire organization.
	THE LEGISLATURE of the Territory
which convened on the 9th of January
has its Committees hard at work in the
various departments assigned to them, and
everything seems tending towards the ac-
complishment of the results necessary for
the prosperity and advancement of the 
general interests of Utah. It is everywhere
conceded that able men have been elected
who are looking to the public welfare more
than personal or sectional interests, and
there appears to be very pleasant amiability
manifested by those of different party
views, which is likely to prove of greater
benefit than partisanship. The members
seem to be taking a deep interest in
educational and reform matters, as well as
the agricultural and manufacturing enter-
terprises, and home industries are receiving 
special attention.
	THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE of Jan. 13,
Washingtan D. C. mentions the recent
death of Mrs. Lura Orms, daughter of
Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood of Washington
D. C. and her only remaining child. This
is a sad bereavment, the mother and
daughter being closely associated both in
public work and in the home. Their love
for each other was a marked feature of their
lives, and the blow must fall heavily upon
the mother, but her heroism will undoubted-
ly assert itself, and her labors for the good 
of others will help her to bear this sore
affliction. May our Heavenly Father
comfort and sustain her in this time of
trial, and help her to acknowledge his
divine will even in her great sorrow. The
funeral services were held on Monday
Jan. 8th, at Mrs. Lockwood's home and
were largely attended by the National
Woman's Press Association of which Mrs. 
Lockwood is a prominent member.	
	MRS. ELIZABETH BROOKS who died in
this City Dec. 4, 1893, at the age of 88
years (lacking a few days) was a very
worthy, as well as a very able woman, and
had made great sacrifices for her religious
faith. She was the widow of a Ship
Captain Thomas P. Brooks, and was well
to do in the world, when she embraced the
Gospel; her friends all turned against her,


but true to the principles she had espoused
she maintained her integrity and left her
native land and home in Ipswich
to come to Zion. She brought with her
the two youngest children; two sons, who
were then mates of vessels followed a few
years after, so all but one, her eldest,
gathered with the Saints. The funeral
services were held in the 20th Ward Meet-
ing House, following on the same day at
2 p. m. the funeral of Mrs. C. R. Savage.
The house had been handsomely decorated
and the beautiful flowers added to the im-
pressiveness of the occasion. The singing
was excellent, the prayers comforting, the
discourse by Elder C. W. Penrose, was ex-
ceedingly interesting and instructive, consol-
ing remarks were also made by Counselor
Druce of the 12th Ward where Sister
Brooks had resided for many years. Sister
Brooks maiden name was Harper and she
was born in Weymouth, England Dec. 16,
1805 of goodly parentage and had re-
ceived a good education for those days;
she died firm in the faith of the Latter-day
work; leaving quite a large posterity of
children, grand children and great grand-
children to labor for her kindred who have
passed behind the vail.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Hall, Dec. 2nd, 1893, President Z. D. H.
Young presiding. Sang “O, my Father,”
prayer by Sister L. D. Alder, continued by
singing “Welcome best of all good meet-
ings” &c. Minutes of last meeting read
and approved. President Young gave in-
structions concerning some of the studies
given in the Temple. Desired the sisters
to take in their order the lectures on Faith
in the Doctrine and Covenants which give
an account of the descent of the Priesthood
on the earth asked the sisters to teach these
things to their children President Young
then desired Sister L. D. Alder to read the
Second Lecture on Faith in the Doc. and
Cov. which contains an account of the
inhabitants of the earth and their works,
lecture read down to the time of the flood.
	Counselor Stevenson then spoke con-
cerning meeting from time to time, thought
it necessary to educate us, and keep alive
the desire in our hearts to serve God, said
we should be charitable one toward
another, and merciful, and remember that it
is great to be a judge, made other remarks.
	Sister M. E. Kimball, bore her testimony
thought it quite plain that a Latterday
prophet was as necessary, to usher in this
dispensation as was John the Baptist to
proclaim the coming of the Savior. Spoke
of some of her early experiences, and gave
other good instructions. Sisters Annie
Wheeler, Larsen, Williams, Irvine,  Bar-
row and Mair each bore a faithful
testimony to the Latter-day work.
	Counselor E. Stevenson and Sister
Brown added some further remarks upon
the faith of the Gospel. President Young
spoke of Sister Julia McDonald desiring
that wonderful instances of healing and
miracles performed in this day be sent to 
her as she was making a book of them.
	Her address is St. George Utah.
	President Young testified that President
B. Young established these meetings and
she thought they were beautiful and would 
be a light to our souls.


Announced the Quarterly Conference to
meet in this Hall, Friday, Dec. 15th, 1893.
The meeting stood adjourned for four
weeks. Benediction by Sister Steele.
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


[Column 1]
	MINUTES of the Ladies’ meeting held in
the 14th, Ward Assembly Hall Dec. 30,
1893, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O, happy
souls who pray”&c. Prayer by Sister
Mary A. Lambert. Continued by singing
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved. Minutes of the Annual Meeting
of the Primary of the 17th Ward, read by
Mabel Davis.
	President M. I. Horne said she had been
highly edified by hearing the minutes of
the Primary. Thought we had all been
instructed by them. Said we had a religion
that we should practice every day of our
lives. It was not enough to believe, but
that we should put in practice that belief
thought there was much had been done at
our late Conference. Business had crowded
so that she could not hardly get through
with it, and a little item now of business
that she had intended to bring before the
Conference was forgotten. She then stated
that so many of the sisters were working in
the Temple and she needed help, in visiting
the different branches and in other things
had talked to the sisters and to President
Zina D. H. Young, and had decided to call
to her aid. Sister Julia C. Howe and
Lydia D. Alder and said “We will put
them before our next Conference. They
have already traveled some, and al-
ways been ready and willing.”
	The motion to sustain these sisters as
aids to President Horne, was then put by
Counselor E. Stevenson. The vote was
unanimous. President Horne read a note
from the Salt Lake Temple Lithographing
Co. making a proposition to the Relief
Society to sell the picture of the Temple on
commission. President Horne thought the
offer a very fair one, and as we had three
months in which to canvas, thought we
might get some means for the poor in this
way. Ten Relief Society Presidents, who
were present agreed to try and do the best
they could in their respective Wards.
President Horne then called on Sister Julia
C. Howe to state how she felt concerning
the call to aid her.
	Sister Howe said, “I believe it is
customary for the brethren to express their
feelings in such cases, and thought it was
right so to do, I always felt that I did not
wish to be a drone in the hive of Deseret.
	My experience has taught me that it is-
not the mighty or educated alone who can
do the most good, but those who are will-
ing to be laborers in the vineyard. I feel to
sustain all those who are called to instruct
and go from place to place. I bear my
testimony to the good done in these meet-
ings, and much will be required of those
who have these opportunities of instruction.
I feel that this duty to which I am called
will be a pleasure, and desire to do all I
can. Sister Howe also spoke on Charity,
explained its meaning, and gave other
good instructions.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, being next called
said, “I feel my weakness as I stand before
you sisters, yet my desire is to do all the good
I can, and help to build up God’s Church
and Kingdom on the earth. I believe I
live my religion better than ever I did, al-


[Column 2]
so appreciate the Book of Mormon more
than ever. Read it my sisters, its beautiful
testimony of the Savior to come, and
after he came on earth, and so many other
beautiful things will help you bear your
darkest hour. I have been promised that
I should meet my Saviour in our glorious
Temple that he would take me by the hand
and tell me why I have had to walk the
thorny pathway why I had such great sor-
rows, and shed so many bitter tears. Also that
He will own me and bless me. This is the
glorious day that I am living for’ let us all
strive sisters and keep these great blessings
in view. My life is on the altar, and after
my family are raised I have been promised
that I should do a great work, I feel to
respond to the call President Horne has
made upon me, and will do all I can to
assist her, and God’s work in the earth;
bore her testimony to the same.
	Sister Gardner of Pine Valley said,
“I was born and raised in this Church, and
desire to do good while I live upon the
earth. Spoke of a promise that had been
given her,when a babe in her father’s arms
namely that she would live to see the com-
ing of the Redeemer, gave an account of
the different organizations in Pine Valley,
bore a faithful testimony to the work in
which we are engaged and desired to be
faithful to the end.
	Sister Hudson of Spring City also bore
her testimony, Sister M. Y. Dougall spoke
on Charity, said it was the love we bore
the human family, urged the sisters to
strive for the spirit of the Lord, and be
faithful in all our callings and especially be
constant in our prayers, desired that we might
all meet in the celestial Kingdom.
	Sister Mary Silver and a sister in the
congregation were thankful that they
were members of the Church and desired
to do good.
	President Horne then asked the sisters if
they had not received good and been blest
in these meetings. “Here our spirits
are fed, and feel a refreshing from the Lord.
Joseph Smith was a great and a chosen
prophet. I am glad that I knew him, and
heard his voice. I rejoice that I live in
this dispensation, when so much has been
revealed and so much more is to be revealed,
I have been reading over my Patriarchial
blessings, for I have been so tried and beset
this year. I find that each one tells me,
that Satan has desired to sift me, and hedge
up my way, but I am promised that I shall
conquer that in so much as I had em-
braced the Gospel with an honest heart, if
sto[-]d true to my convictions, I should be
brought safe through; I have had so many
trials this year but I have been promised to
over come.
	Jesus said to those who overcome, he
would give them to sit down in his Father’s
kingdom, I feel that the last year has been
such an eventful one in our history. God
is working in His own way and time, I
think soon we shall see a great crisis.
	President Horne spoke of the good done at
the World’s Fair, of the Congress of women,
the visit of the choir, and many other
things, and closed by wishing us all a
Happy New Year, and adding her blessing
to all the sisters.
	Sisters Kiddle, Palmer, Price and Jane
James each spoke of the good received at
these meetings.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks
Sang “Satan’s Empire long has flourished
Benediction by Counselor E. Stevenson.
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE U. W. P. Club met at Dr. E. R.
Shipp’s office Dec. 30th, 1893. President
E. R. Shipp in the chair. Prayer was of-
fered by Mrs. Phebe C. Young, and
minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. The roll was called, members
answering to their names by giving the
name of a Poet and his masterpiece, and a
quotation from the same. President E. B.
Wells named the Poet Tennyson, and gave
quotations from “In Memoriam,” and
“The Brook.” President E. R. Shipp gave
a quotation from Longfellow’s “Hiawatha”
and Mrs. R. M. Fox from Burns “Prayer.”
Mrs. Phebe C. Young gave the name of
the Poet Willis, and a quotation from
“Absalom.” Mrs. C. C. R. Wells from
O. F. Whitney’s “Poet’s Prayer.” Mrs.
Lucy Clark gave a verse from Eliza R.
Snow’s “O my Father.” Mrs. Ella W.
Hyde’s selection was from J. G. Holland’s
“Tribute to Woman,” from Katrina. Mrs.
M. E. Shipp gave a quotation from
“Hiawatha,” and Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox from
George Elliot’s “Daniel Deronda.” After
which, Mrs. Phebe C. Young gave an
interesting account of the first Thanksgiv-
ing held in New England. Governor
Winston issued the proclamation on ac-
count of the destitution of the people at
that time, and the relief that came, on the
arrival of the May Flower. An instrument-
al selection was beautifully rendered by
Miss Olea Shipp. Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox and
Mrs. C. C. R. Wells made some remarks,
continuing the subject of Thanksgiving,
and spoke upon the present situation. Mrs.
R. M. Fox recited the poem “A Woman’s
Question” from Elizabeth Browning. Mrs.
Anderson from Provo sang very sweetly,
“Life’s Lesson.” Mesdames Lucy Clark
and M. E. Shipp gave interesting accounts
of their trip to the World’s Fair. “The
Famine,” from Longfellow’s “Hiawatha,”
was read in a very pleasing manner by
Miss Ellis Shipp. A letter was read from
Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh, expressing re-
gards to the club, and good wishes for the
coming year.
	In consequence of the absence of several
of the members, on account of the
political meeting being held on that evening
it was decided that the program for the
next meeting would be the same that was
arranged for the last meeting, as it had not
been carried out, with the addition of an
account, by President E. B. Wells, of her
visit to Whittier, and a recitation by Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor. Meeting adjourned for
one month. Benediction by Mrs. Lizzie
Wilcox. Refreshments were served, and
the usual pleasant chat followed, during
which time Miss Olea Shipp favored the
club with music.
ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Rec. Secy.


PARTY AT SANDY.
	Thursday evening at eight, Dec. 14th.
A very pleasant party met at the Ward-
house, in honor to our President of the
Relief Society Mrs. W. Olsen, before her
leaving for a short time, to visit relatives
and friends at Grantsville. Those as-
sembled were members of the Society,
with Bishop Jensen and Counselors and
other friends. A purse was presented to
her with a sum over $20.00 given by the
society members. She felt very happy for


the honor bestowed upon her. The even-
ing was well spent in speeches and dancing.
	Refreshments consisting of many
delicacies were served to the guests, by the
young ladies present, and a general good
feeling animated all.
		HARRIET WILSON, First Coun.
		HILDA LARSON, Secretary.


A few verses were composed and read on
the occasion by Hilda Larson, which in
substance presented the good wishes and
tender affection of the sisters towards their
beloved President and also in appreciation
of the good work conscientiously performed
by her since she had presided over the
Society, and desiring that she might still
stand at the head of that organization and
the Society prosper and each one, officers
and members might affectionately labor to-
gether in love unitedly for the best and
highest good of all in deeds of charity and
benevolence.—Ed.


[Column 1]
THE RECONSTRUCTION OF THE
GOVERNMENT.

	ON the day of General Lee’s surrender,
referred to in the last paper, President
Lincoln, who had been in the vicinity of
Richmond, returned to Washington and on
the 11th of April, 1865, he issued a
proclamation demanding for U. S. vessels
in foreign ports those privileges and
immunities which had been denied them
during the war, on the plea of giving equal
belligerent rights to the Republic and her
internal enemies. And on the day follow-
ing an order was issued from the War
Department stopping all drafting of recruits
for the National army and the purchasing
of munitions and war supplies, thus
making a move towards the speedy renewal
of interrupted commerce, and a restoration
of peace. The people of the nation,
rejoicing that the war was ended, began
making preparations for a grand National
Thanksgiving, when suddenly the alarm-
ing news was telegraphed over the country
that the President had been assassinated in
a theatre in Washington, by an actor
named John Wilkes Booth, on the 14th of
April, 1865; the murderer, after shooting
the President, jumped on the stage and
shouted “The South is avenged,” escaped
through a back door and fled into Virginia.
He was overtaken below Fredericksburg
and refusing to surrender, was shot by
Sergeant  Boston Corbett. President
Lincoln died on the morning of the 15th.”
His body was taken to his home in Spring-
field, Ill., and buried with all due honors.
Six hours after his death, Andrew Johnson,
the Vice-President, took the oath of office as
President of the United States, which was
administered by Chief Justice Chase. It
was believed by many that the assassina-
tion of the President was only part of a
deep laid scheme to murder the members of
the Cabinet, General Grant and other
prominent Republicans, as on the same
evening a murderous assault was made up-
on Secretary Seward by an ex-Confederate
soldier. It was a night of horrors at the
capital, and President Johnson and Mr.
Hunter, the Assistant Secretary of State,
issued a proclamation declaring that a
conspiracy had been formed by Jefferson
Davis and many other rebels and traitors
against the goverment for the assassination
of the President and Secretary of State, and
offering a reward of $25,000 a piece for their

[Column 2]
arrest. But though Davis and others were
afterwards captured no punishment wa
ever inflicted upon them. Let it be record-
ed to the honor of the American nation or
the victorious party in the Civil War that
though they came off conquerors, they
manifested no disposition to put their foot
on the neck of the vanquished and keep it
there, but from the first surrender of
General Lee, and all through the work of
reconstruction of the government, they
manifested a desire to be charitable and to
establish peaceable and friendly relations
between the two parties. Altho’ it was
necessary for several years, until the work
of reconstruction was finished, to keep the
South under military law. The severest
punishment inflicted upon the South was
the giving of the elective franchise to the
colored population, making them equal
with their former masters.
	It has been said that the Civil War of
America was more extended in area and
more destructive of life and property, than
any other recorded in history. It is
estimated that one million men were
sacrificed, that the burden of the nation in
loss and debt was $6,000,000,000, and that
it gave freedom to about 4,000,000 slaves.
After the terrible convulsions produced by
the war, the powers of the government
took steps to bring about a reorganization,
political, social and industrial.
	It was a critical period of the nation’s
history, and required a master mind to
stand at the head. It was not long before the
people became convinced that those neces-
sary elements of character to bring about
the results desired were not possessed by
President Johnson; indeed his administra-
tion forms a lamentable page in our nation’s
history. Almost immediately after taking
the reins of government he took issue with
Congress, usurped its authority, and showed
conclusively that though he had been
elected Vice-President by the Republican
party, his sympathies were with the South,
and he worked and ruled in the interests of
the Confederates. Early in the year 1865,
Congress adopted the XIII amendment to
the Constitution, which was as follows:
“Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime, whereof
the party shall have been duly convicted,
shall exist within the United States, or any
place subject to their jurisdiction,”
The President opposed this, his plan being
to restore to the Confederate States their
former position in the Union, without any
provision for securing to the freedmen the
right to the exercise of citizenship, and he
labored secretly and underhandedly for
that object. It was well for the nation that
there were many loyal, honest and de-
termined men in the Congress who would
stand firm to their convictions of justice
and right, notwithstanding the President’s
opposition. Measures had been going on
for perfecting peaceful relations among the
whole people of the Republic, but it
made very unsatisfactory progress, as the
President would veto nearly every bill
passed by Congress, and they would then
reconsider it and pass it over his veto, by a
two-thirds majority. Matters even went so
far that there was a convention held at
Philadelphia on the 14th of August, 1866, 
of the insurrectionists, their object being to
form a new party, with President Johnson
as their leader; but there was such a discor-
dant element there that the scheme utterly
failed. Soon after that another convention
was held composed of loyal men from the


South and representative men from the
north. These men supported the measure
adopted by Congress, and succeeded in un-
doing much of the mischief done by the
President and former convention. In the
spring of 1868 the President’s conduct be-
came so disgraceful that he was finally im-
peached of high crimes and misdemeanors,
and he was ordered to answer the impeach-
ment. On the 30th of March 1868, the
trial was begun, and owing to many wise
men of the Senate counseling moderation,
the President was acquitted by one vote.
	The forgoing items have been gleaned from
histories written by northern men, and pos-
sibly they have exaggerated Prest. Johnson’s
actions, he being born a southerner, had
naturally greater sympathy with the
southern party than Congress, which was
composed of northern men, could have.
	In 1867, the peninsula of Alaska was
purchased from Russia for $7,200,000.
The value of General Grant’s military
services in behalf of the Republic and his
patriotism in assisting to defeat the designs
of President Johnson at the Capital had
won the confidence of the loyal people, and
in June 1868, the Republican National Con-
vention at Chicago, nominated him for
President of the United States, with
Schuyler Colfax as Vice Presideut; and they
were elected by an overwhelming majority
in November.
		[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN  IMPORTANT  MEETING.

	AN assembly of women under the aus-
pices of the Woman Suffrage association is
to take place at the Fourteenth ward hall on
Saturday, February 3, 1894, at 3 o’clock
p. m.
	There will be brief speeches from some
of the most eminent ladies and gentlemen
of the Territory, intermingled with songs,
recitation, etc. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Hon. J. E. Booth, Mrs. Emily S. Richards
and others will take part. All are invited to
attend.
		MARY WELLS,
		Chairman Pub. Com.


WOMAN’S RIGHTS.

	AS wives and mother’s have they any? Oh
yes. Innumerable rights. Thousands of
them have rights in the kitchen, at the
wash-tub, at the sewing machine, and num-
berless other rights. Is it right it should
be so? Certainly. But should her rights
end there? No. Does she need no change
from the monotonous round of her daily
tasks? There may be some few (though it
is doubtful) who feel satisfied with this
never ending round, while many long and
crave for something more, higher, intellec-
ual. They do not feel that time is lost by
an hour or two of reading, or attending a
lecture, but rather that they had gained
something. Women throughout the world
have cause to rejoice for a new era has
dawned, for her an epoch been added.
What advancement woman has made in the
past twenty years, and in the future twenty,
what may she not accomplish? If the
younger generation follow in the footsteps
of the many noble leading women of today,
the earth will be revolutionized. Women
will not be the dependent beings they are
at the present time, for they will be fitted
to fill all honorable positions that their sex


will allow them to occupy. Consequently
society will be improved. There will be
fewer fallen women, less saloons, and man,
that all important mortal, will have begun
to realize that women can maintain their
own rights, morally, socially; and politic-
ally.
	E. H. LYON.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Salt Lake Lithographing Company
have presented to the WOMANS EXPONENT
a handsome picture of the Temple and
grounds neatly and appropriately framed,
which we consider a very pretty compli-
ment and a valuable gift. It has been
greatly admired by our visitors both stran-
gers and residents of the Territory. The
company have our sincere thanks for the
acceptable addition to the picture exhibit of
this office.

	THE historical silk map of the United
States which was made by Kate D. Barron
Buck of this City and which received merit-
ed praise, and took a medal, when ex-
hibited in the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair, has been photographed and
we have received a complimentary copy, at
this office; the map will be on exhibition at
the Midwinter Fair. The map is made of
silk from the dresses of the wives of the
respective Governors of the several States
and Territories. The District of Columbia
is a piece presented by the late Mrs. Harri-
son of the White House. It is a very in-
genious piece of needle work and quite
perfect in the outline and boundary of the
country, and each of its several States and
Territories as well as rivers etc.

	WE have on hand Relief Society Reports
from Davis, Box Elder, Bear Lake and Sanpete
and some other similar reports of meetings,
and will use them if possible; but our next
issue will contain special matter suitable to
send for distribution at the Midwinter Fair
in San Francisco. The ladies of the
World’s Fair Committee will be at the ex-
pense of one thousand extra copies. There
will be an article on the silk industry in
Utah by Margaret A. Caine, and one on
the music of Utah by Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, also upon the Drama, a fine poem by
Lu Dalton, and other special articles, there-
fore we ask our patrons to have patience
and wait for the general association items
and reports etc. We hope to make a good
representation at the Midwinter Fair with
the books and papers of Utah women, and
especially of the silk enterprise. Mrs.
Caine who had charge of the silk exhibit
in Chicago will have entire charge of the
woman’s department in the Utah Exhibit
in San Francisco, and the women of the
Territory may have perfect confidence in her
ability and management of the matter.
She has been appointed for the position on
account of her familiarity with the silk
industry, and the executive ability she has
shown in her work, through the entire
work for the Fair, and and she received
encomiums of praise and manifestations of
esteem from the ladies in the Woman’s
Building at Jackson Park, where the silk
exhibit was located, and she was warmly
commended by the President of the Board
of Lady Managers Mrs. Bertha Honore
Palmer. Mrs. Caine will probably leave
for San Francisco by the 7th of February.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	HE hath riches sufficient who hath
enough to be charitable.—Sir T. Brown.
	MY thoughts are my own possessions;
my acts may be limited by my country’s
laws —G. Foster.
	THE Scottish Labor Party, held a confer-
ence in London, Jan. 2, at which a resolu-
tion approving woman suffrage was adopted.
	IN Crittenden, Ky., a Republican county,
Miss Mina Wheeler has been elected School
Superintendent, defeating Geo. Perry,
Republican, by a majority of two votes.
	THE Committee on Dress of the National
Council of Women has lately been
strengthened by the addition of Miss Laura
Lee, of Massachusetts; Mrs. Bertha Mor-
ris Smith, of New York; and Mrs. Annie
L. Sloane, of California.
	ALEXANDER CAMPBELL said “We test
the religion, the morality, the prosperity,
the happiness, of every nation and people
by the question—how stands woman
amongst them?”
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET has been hold-
ing meetings in North Wales, where the
British Women’s Temperance Association
was practically unknown before. She has
had immense audiences.
	MISS ANTHONY, who addressed a Buffalo
audience 41 years ago on woman suffrage,
was a welcome speaker on the occasion of a 
grand suffrage rally Jan. 10th in Concert
Hall.
	THE Towoomba Chronicle of recent date
says that a deputation from the Woman’s
Suffrage Society of South Australia, visited
the Premier at Adelaide and he promised
that the government would do all in their
power to place on the Statute book a law
giving the franchise to women in such form
as the women desire it.
	GOV. WAITE, of Colorado, has promptly
appointed six women as notaries public.
They are Ada J. Coan, Ida Dannenfield
and Etta Cunningham, of Pueblo; Lillian
E. McNircher and Ellen C. White, of
Denver, and Minta C. White, of Del
Norte.
	THE Midwinter Fair Executive Gom-
mittee has made abundant provision for the
weary, and seats will be easily obtained.
Over a thousand benches will be placed
about the grounds, and nearly a thousand
chairs will be furnished for use in the
different buildings.
	A VIGOROUS effort was made in Waltham,
Mass., to elect a woman on the school
board. Mrs. Hudson secured the signa-
tures of fifty legal voters to nomination
papers for Miss Sarah Osborn, and Miss
Osborn received over 700 votes, although
she was not elected. The women will try
again next year, and hope to succeed.
	ENGLISH correspondence states that Mr.
Gladstone in consequence of the victory of
the woman suffrage supporters in relation
to the Parish Councils bill, is now compelled
to introduce a measure giving to married
women the vote now exercised by widows
and spinsters in all municipal elections,
parish, district and county Councils, boards
of guardians and all the machinery of local
government.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CORRESPONDENT of the Methodist
Advocate says: “I am in full sympathy
with our church government in every
particular, except that it does not prohibit
our ministers using tobacco. Am I too
harsh? If so, it is because I have seen so
much of the evil thing at this large as-
sembly of ministers. I do believe the
wheels of our Zion are clogged with old
tobacco worms, smoke and embers. I wish
I had not mentioned this, but I cannot write
without speaking os it. I am so troubled
and ashamed of it among our preachers.
I feel that they are actually against us
mothers who are trying to teach our boys
to not use it.”
	MISS MARCIA P. BROWN, formerly prin-
cipal of the Maplewood School, in Malden,
Mass., came home last September, from a
five years’ absence in Brazil. She was ap-
pointed by the Brazilian Government to
examine the school exhibition at the
World’s Fair and to inquire thoroughly in-
to the workings of the school systems in
the United States, Germany, France and
Portugal. The purpose of the Brazilian
government is to institute a model system
of schools in Rio San Paula. Miss Brown
is a member of the State Board of educa-
tion of San Paula, the only lady that has
ever served on the committee. She is the
principal of the teachers in the training
school at San Paula, appointed by the
Government when Brazil became a republic
in 1889, and while she was interested in
missionary work. After two years she
gave the missionary work up, and accepted
the position at the training schools, which
she still fills.


A SAD DEATH.

Dear Sister E. B. Wells:

	OUR newly organized Stake of Wayne Co. is
now caused to mourn, for one of its bright
active officers, Florence M. Williams, daughter of
Mary Coleman and Sylvester Williams and
grandaughter of our esteemed Stake President,
of Relief Society, Jane S. Coleman; she departed
this life Nov. 17 1893, of typhoid fever, aged 15
years one month and seven days. The circum-
stances connected with her death make it sad
indeed. Her father has been dead something
over a year, and at the time of her death, her
mother and four of her brothers and sisters
were very low with the same fever, besides bury-
ing her brother George a little over two weeks
before she was taken sick. She prayed earnestly
that her life might be spared, and desired the
brethren, when a special fast was called for the
family, to pray specially for her that she might
live, to comfort her mother, and help raise her
brothers and sisters. She had great faith in the
Priesthood, the Elders remaining by her side for
several days administering, and for her comfort,
but she was called to finish her mission in the
spirit world she had so nobly begun on earth.
	She was always willing and ready to do every-
thing required of her, and so bright and cheerful
about it, that it was a pleasure to see her, indeed
she was a choice spirit sent to elevate and refine
all those with whom she associated. From time
to time she was promoted to higher callings she
never forsook the primary, but always attended,
assisted in singing, making programmes etc.
bringing rays of sunshine with her presence.
For some years she was secretary of the Sunday
School, also assisted in keeping the Ward record
was counselor to the Y. L. M. I. A., and last May
was promoted to Stake Secretary to the 
Presidency of Relief Society and though young
was competent in every respect; the spirituality
of her nature being highly developed. With the
presidency of the Relief Society visited every
settlement in the Stake, doing her part in the
organizing of new branches, as well as those
already organized. I thought while on that trip,
as her pencil would fly over the paper, surely
President Coleman was inspired to choose her
for she would be a power in Zion some day, and
so she will, with the knowledge she gained while


on earth, and the perform of her duties in the
spirit world, where no weak flesh will bar her
progress, her powers of righteousness will be
felt by all those who have the happy privilege of
associating with her, “Sweet is the death of the
righteous.”

	Weep not for her who has gone before,
	For she loved you all so dear,
	Her life was short, but her record great
	For one so young in years.

	Florence has left us but is not dead
	For the righteous, death shall not taste
	Surely that life was a righteous one,
	Who sought all to save ere ’twas to late.

	I would that all who’s summons came,
	Were as well prepared to go, 
	Whose mission was so near complete
	Whose name was spotless like the snow
***
	Safe beyond the powers of Satan
	Free from suffering sin and woe; 
	Yet prepared to dwell with Angels
	Will assist in saving those below.

	JANE S. COLEMAN, President.
	MARY E. HANKS,
	SARAH FORSYTHE

[To the right of "MARY E. HANKS" and "SARAH FORSYTH": {Counselors.]

Teasdale Utah, Dec. 8th, 1893.


IN MEMORIAM

	Died October 31, in Ogden, Utah, of dropsy
Sister Maria L. B. Goodale, widow of the late
Elder Isaac N. Goodale, aged 65 years four
months and eight days. Deceased was born in
Littleton, Grafton, Co., New Hampshire on the
23, of June 1828. In 1836 she with her parents
removed to Far West, Mo., and in 1837 she
was baptized into the church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints, thus sharing in all the drivings
and persecutions to which the church was sub-
jected. She arrived in Salt Lake City September
19, 1847. On January 17, 1849 she was united in
marriage with Isaac N. Goodale, and in 1883 she
with her husband removed to Weber Co. and
settled in Ogden City.
	She was the mother of thirteen children, four of
whom, with her husband, have preceded her to
the spirit world.
	She was a faithful wife and loving mother and
a friend to the poor and needy, many of whom
have great cause to cherish her memory for the
service she has rendered them.
	She joined the Fourth Ward Relief Society at its
organization which took place January 18, 1879
and was at that time called to be a teacher of the
same, which office she faithfully filled until June
27, 1888 when she was chosen second counselor
in the society, which position she also honorably
filled till death removed her from our midst and
she was called by our Heavenly Father to more
extended usefulness in a higher sphere.

	Farewell dear sister! thou art gone
	From earth with all its strife;
	Thy labors ended. Rest in Peace;
	Thou hast won Eternal Life.

	Resolved, that while we feel the deepest sorrow
in the loss of our member, yet we know that our
loss is her gain, and we therefore bow submissively
to the will, of him who doeth all things well,
and say “Thy will O Lord, not ours be done.”
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory, emulate
her virtues and strive to carry out in our lives
her motherly counsels, which were so wise in
temporal as well as spiritual things.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family, especially to the
daughters, who so lovingly tended their mother
during her months of sickness, and who still need
that counsel which a mother alone can give; that
one copy of these resolutions be presented to
them, and a copy be entered on the record of our
Society and a copy be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication.
	MARIANNA STRATFORD, President,
	NELLIE BEECROFT, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.

	ANE ELIZABETH JENSEN PETERSON was born
in Haien Veile Denmark, September 28, 1819.
	She was baptized Oct. 7, 1860. In ’62 emigrated
to Utah and has ever been a faithful Latter-day
Saint She died December 5, 1893.
	Sister Peterson was put in as a teacher in the
Relief Society at Ephriam shortly after its
organization and held that position until her
death. She began the silk work industry in 1875,


and was very zealous and took great interest in
it, although she labored under great disadvant-
ages, she produced some of the finest cocoons in
Utah. For about 41 years she was unable to lie
down to rest and was obliged to use crutches for
15 years, when in 1888 she went to the Manti
Temple and received blessings therein and from
that time discarded her crutches and could lie
down and enjoy her rest. She was a woman of
great faith, no sacrifice was thought too much
for the kingdom.
	S. A. PETERSON.


AGNES SMITH ARMSTRONG was born in Car-
lisle, England in the year 1818. Joined the Church
in 1836, was married in 1843 to William Arm-
strong. In 1848 she with her husband and two
children emigrated to America, locating in St.
Louis, Mo., at this place she buried her husband
and four children. In 1855 she came to Utah
locating in Salt Lake City until 1858, she came
to Ephraim, Sanpete Co, where she resided until
the time of her death, which occured Dec. 9th
1893. She leaves three children and eleven
grandchildren.
	Mother worked hard to support herself and
children teaching school for over twenty years.
When the Relief Society was organized in 1869,
she was chosen secretary, which place she
occupied until the time of her death; for the
Society she worked with an energy and faithful-
ness which is a credit to her memory. Mother
had many friends, but those who knew her best
loved her most.	Sincerely.
	HELEN E. ARMSTRONG.


“Do our sons in the law schools rise from
their studies of the invidious statutes and
opinions of jurists in regard to women with
a higher respect for their mothers? By no
means. Every line of the old common law
of England on which the American system
of jurisprudence is based, touching the in-
terests of women, is, in a measure, respon-
sible for the wrongs she suffers today.”
	THE Roman Catholic college of St.
Francis Xavier has just opened its doors to
women.


DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday, January 29th and continuing for
30 days.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
ons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
NO. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 

[Written in right margin]
84

VOL. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, AND 15, 1894.	No. 12.


CONTENTS:

	Silk Culture in Utah—Margaret A. Caine. Con-
vention Notes. Souvenirs of Lilac-Time—Aunt
Em. When Women Vote. Notes and
News. History of Music in Utah—Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson. History of the Drama in Utah—Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson. Growth of Woman Suffrage
—A. S. B. Mass. Suffrage Meeting 1894—H.
B. Blackwell. Relief Society Secretaries—
Margaret A. Caine.

	EDITORIAL.—Editorial Notes.

	POETRY.—The Presence of God—Lu Dalton.
A Fragment—E. B. W.


THE PRESENCE OF GOD.

 I STOOD in the bleak, solemn midnight
	On the shore of the fathomless sea, 
And knew that some deep wave was bringing
	The baptism of Death to me.
The stars overhead coldly glittered
	Like swordpoints which pierced to my soul;
The frowning, unfriendly sky glowered,
	And breakers with menaces rolled,

Chill winds swept the billow-tops moaning 
	Low dirges deep burdened with woe;
Mysterious whispers and groaning
	Oppressed me with horror, and oh! 
The vast, smileless universe turning
	Away from my shuddering soul,
Sick, sick with a terrible yearning 
	To be not, to go not, alone.

So wide was the infinite Ever,
	So endless Immensity spread,
So hollow and empty the Never,
	So awful the home of the Dead,
Though open the wonderful gateway
	’Tween Here and the uuknown There, 
Though beckoned by Nature’s deep secrets,
	My soul reeled in fear and despair.

“So lonely!” I cried, “oh, so lonely!
	How can I go forth all alone
To leave this warm life which has known me,
	With no kindred hand in my own?”
The wind swept my puny breath landward 
	And angrily roared in my ear, 
Then every sound shuddered and fainted,
	While, frightened, I panted to hear.

Dread Nature breathed low to my spirit
	And drew her dark curtains aside;
Awe—stricken, amazed and confounded,
	I scanned all Creation so wide, 
Oh, had I been borne to the regions
	Extending away and away,
Beyond and beyond the bright legions
	Of systems and suns on their way.

I saw circling planets fly faster
	Than lightning’s swift wheels, ’till at last
They flew, like night moths to a candle,
	Their suns’ fires to feed, far and fast
Fair worlds newly born waxed and blossomed,
	Dead moons faded, shrunken and rent,
And comets sped rushing through systems
	As swift, faithful messengers sent.

I saw those bright sparks from the Ever 
	Those glimmers which men call the Soul,
So limited, blinded and baffled,

[column 2]
	In the struggle that clay to control,
So groping like seeds to the sunlight,
	So beaten, so bruised and so tost,
Yet embryo Gods straining upward—
	No effort, no agony lost.

I saw grasses gratefully growing,
	Exultingly filling their span;
And trains of ants coming and going,
	So glad to be part of God’s plan.
A chorus of joy filled the spaces
	Between the vast systems of worlds
For Life with its gifts and its graces
	And Death which new vistas unfurls.

I lifted my eyelids; but stricken
	And shriveled as lightning had sped,
I fell like a stone. I had looked in
	The eyes of my God, deep and dread.
Eternity lay there enfolded,
	And mystery fathomless rolled;
But in infinite tenderness spoke He,
	Reviving and strength’ning my soul.

Oh, fearest thou death because lonely?
	E’en so, son of man, was thy birth;
The gates Life and Death admit only
	One soul to or fro from the earth.
You looked in mine eyes and fell shrieking,
	When loneliness ’self you saw there—
Perfection, which all life is seeking,
	Is lonely because yet so rare,

When man feels this presence pervade him,
	From night’s hollow orb, or the roar
Of waves o’er the turbulent ocean,
	My spirit is shadowing o’er,
But upward and evermore upward
	All life grows through pleasure or pain, 
Throngh failure or triumph still mounting
	The cycles of infinite gain.

All good lies enshrined in my bosom,
	Approach thou and freely partake;
Love, Wisdom and Life Everlasting,
	With infinite joy in their wake. 
Come, come! O my children, I call you;
	Mount, mount! By the ways I have trod;
Let Strife, Pain and Death not appal you
	For I am your lonely God.

I awoke, and behold I’d been dreaming;
	I pondered deep truths in my soul;
Night, solitude, death have a seeming
	Of loneliness awful and cold,
Which is God’s holy presence enclouding,
	His voice which in silence we hear,
And death but withdraws the vail shrouding
	A higher and holier sphere.

Though, loth to tread paths unfamiliar,
	Thou shrinkest in cowardly dread,
Of the unknown just seen in the distance,
	Take courage, my soul, lift the head,
For onward and evermore onward
	Progresses a conquering way
To God and His glory; then forward
	Press, fearless,through Night and through Day.

No more let sweet Solitude chill thee,
	Nor moaning winds shake thee with fear, 
Nor Death with cold dread ever fill thee,
	Though draweth he momently near.
Oh, come he today or tomorrow.
	With gladness my feet shall be shod!
And, waiting, I’ll still struggle toward
	The lonely perfection of God.
							LU DALTON.


SILK CULTURE IN UTAH.

		A GOLD MINE IN EMBRYO.

	ONE of the very important resources of
the Territory which attracted marked at-
tention at the Columbian Exposition was
the Utah Silk Exhibit at the Woman’s
Building; and we fully realize that the op-
portunity given us to exhibit our silk to the
world is due to Mrs. Potter Palmer, Presi-
dent of the Board of Lady Managers, whose
intelligent sympathy and keen appreciation
of the needs of industrial women rendered
her the constant champion of this worthy
enterprise.
	Today the annual importation of un-
prepared silk alone into the United States
amounts to over $35,000,000; and the
quality of silk which they procure is such
that our manufacturers cannot discover the
art of putting a luster on it which will last,
or give us a fabric which will in any way
compete with the foreign manufactured silk.
Apparently there is very grave misunder-
standing of silk in our country. The
beauty and luster of the oriental silk is
supposed to be due to some unknown art in
manufacturing and dyeing, and that all
silk is silk of very nearly the same quality.
This is a mistake. There are as many
grades of silk as you may expect to find of
fruit in an orchard. By thoroughly under-
standing the nature of the worms, provid-
ing them with proper food, this may be con-
trolled by the producer. Yet it is as im-
practicable to attempt to raise only the best
grade of silk as of any other agricultural
product.
	The great Fair just over has given us an
opportunity to learn something of what
has been done in this industry. We find
that silk has been raised to a considerable
extent in Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Kansas,
California, Georgia and Florida; in fact in
almost every state in the Union, and in
most cases by women. No doubt in many
parts of our country where the mulberry
will grow a much better quality of silk can
be raised than is now being imported; but
as the climate has much to do with the
quality and luster of the silk we feel confi-
dent that in America, Utah will be the
home of the silk worm, for our silk con-
tains the same luster, elasticity and dura-
bility as that which can be produced in any
country in the world.
	This industry in Utah began in the year
1855 or 1856. In the past it has been
carried on mostly in the homes of the
people, yet we find much has been done in
a public way. Brigham Young when
Governor of Utah procured a supply of
mulberry seed from France and in a few
years fifty acres of mulberry trees were
planted out in orchards or groves in Salt
Lake and Utah counties. From that time
they have been grown in all parts of the
Territory,—in nearly every town and
village—and they have flourished luxuriant-


[Column 1]
ly; it is estimated that there are at least
two hundred and fifty acres of mulberry
trees in Utah at present.
	The services of some experienced seri-
culturists from France and Italy have been
secured to give instructions to the people in 
raising the worms. Uuder the direction of
Mrs. Dunyon there were raised in six
weeks 700 pounds of cocoons, which at that
time were worth $2.00 per pound in 
France.
	In 1876 a Territorial organization was
effected, called the Deseret Silk Association,
(Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, President.) for
the purpose of promoting the industry by
means of united efforts. Auxiliary as-
sociations were formed in several counties
in which women were active directors and
practical workers. Cocoons were raised in
large quantities, but for lack of means
manufacturies were not permanently es-
tablished. During one year this association
paid to operators $1,500. and the quantity
of silk prepared was 400 pounds. There
have been raised in Utah over twenty eight
thousand pounds of cocoons.
	Utah silk was exhibited at the Centennial
Celebration in Philadelphia, and examined
by experts who attested to its excellence,
and awarded a diploma. Utah cocoons
have been placed on the market in San
Francisco and Philadelphia and pronounced
a very superior quality. During the
failure of silk worms in France a large
quantity of eggs were sent there, which
were considered by them to be very good, 
and for which we received a very high
price. This for a time found a market for
large quantities of cocoons also.
	In the manufacturies of the East little
has been done in reeling silk, and as there
is no duty on the unprepared silk (while all
manufactured silk is imported under a
heavy duty) they seem to prefer importing
silk in bales, our people not having had
sufficient experience to make them perfect
reelers, and our silk in that condition could
not pass the examination to which it was
subjected, therefore could not be disposed
of. At one time the manufacturing of silk
thread was quite extensively and success-
fully carried on by Judge Alexander Pyper
in Salt Lake City, and for some time Z. C.
M. I. Shoe Factory was supplied with thread,
which it is said was very much better than
any they have ever been able to import. It
was also much desired by saddle and har-
ness makers because of its superior strength.
This enterprising industry was brought to
a sudden end by the death of its promoter.
Thus when we were brought in close com-
munion with the East by the railroads, and
having a country so very rich in its resour-
ces and it being no longer necessary for the
mother to make the cloth with which she
clothed her family, the culture of silk was
becoming a thing of the past. But we are
now being made aware of the fact that with
our rapidly increasing population every
resource of the country must be fully de-
veloped, and we hope in the near future to
establish manufacturies and put up with a
little inconvenience in the silks we wear
until we learn to do the work perfectly.
	When the Board of Lady Managers sent
an invitation to the women of Utah, desir-
ing them to contribute something to the
decoration of the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair, it was decided that nothing
would be more representative of the thrift
and industry of the Territory and so entire-
ly woman’s work as a pair of home raised

[Column 2]
silk portiers, the design to be the Sego Lily
(the floral emblem of Utah) designed and
embroidered by our own ladies. The
portiers as a proof of our wise selection
were received with profound surprise, it
not having been known that such a quality
of silk could be raised in America.
	Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury, National
Commissioner from Utah, was asked if
Utah could make an exhibit of silk, which
might lead to the encouragement of seri-
culture in the United States, if an ap-
propriation could be obtained from Con-
gress. The money being procured the
offer was accepted, although the Fair was
then open. As no silk had been raised for
four years this was no easy task at home,
yet we succeeded in collecting a number of
silk dresses, silk shawls, scarfs, fringes,
hosiery, knitting and sewing silk and twists,
a quantity of reeled silk and cocoons,
these, with the portiers, made our cases
both artistic and interesting. We also en-
gaged a young lady born and raised in
Utah to reel, and a woman to weave and
procured a primitive loom, reel and twist-
ing wheel, with all attachments, which
had been used here in the early days.
	This exhibit attracted a great deal of at-
tention and in the last catalogue issued it
was prominently mentioned as one of the
most interesting exhibits in the Woman’s
Building, and of especial interest to in-
dustrial women. Among those who
visited it were many foreigners who were
experienced in seri culture, who were very
much interested. One Frenchman who is
engaged in selling French silks in America
said of one piece of silk which he was
looking at “That if we could raise silk of
that quality we had an unknown source of
wealth which would be more to us than
any amount of gold if properly
manipulated.’’ Many kindergarten work-
ers took notes of every detail, and think it
will be a wonderful thing to introduce into
their work. Women interested in industrial
homes were just as anxious to know all
they could and felt confident, that if taken
up in a simple way, would furnish interest-
ing employment for their girls, which
might in time bring a very profitable re-
muneration. We sincerely trust the
exhibit will do a great deal of good in the
direction for which it was intended, and
that we will fully appreciate the benefits
which it has brought to us at home.
	Our silk was examined by a committee of
Japanese under the Department of Manufac-
ture, and awarded a medal and a diploma,
and under the department of agriculture by
American experts, who also awarded it a
medal and a diploma. Besides this a vast
amount of valuable information was ob-
tained by the exhibitors, which the Fair
with its visitors afforded, which because of
the secretive way the arts of raising and
preparing silk have been held were before
unknown to us. Besides the exhibit made
at the Woman’s Building the ladies of
Davis county contributed a set of furniture
(seven pieces) to the ladies reception room
in the Utah Building, upholstered in home
raised silk, it was a sage green brocaded
with a spray of wild sage, the color har-
monizing with the other furnishings in the
room. The upper part of the windows
were festooned very artistically with cocoons
and a frieze of peacock feathers, which to-
gether presented to the weary sight-seer
such a restful and cool appearance that it
was greatly admired, and many having

[Column 3]
heard of it from their friends came to see it
for themselves. We feel that if the wo-
men of Utah can receive some assistance
and will take hold of this industry, which
is so particularly adapted to women and
permanently establish it, it will give labor
of a profitable nature to many of our wo-
men and be a great benefit to the nation, by
keeping at home a vast amount of money.
	The raising of the worm is a labor which is
extremely interesting, and to the womanly
heart brings out a loving care and interest
which makes it more than mere labor.
The reeling demands such an acute and
gentle touch as can only be found in the
hands of women. The weaving furnishes
a broad field for artistic work in coloring
and designing, as well as light labor, and 
will bring to any industrious woman a 
profitable remuneration, and should it not
be a great source of pride to any young wo-
man who could raise prepare and weave
the silk in her own gowns.
	As has been stated there are thousands
of mulberry trees already growing, the
climate is well adapted to the silk worm;
the freedom from disease which is so fatal
in damp climates, and with hundreds of
women anxious to engage in the industry,
things look propitious for the development
of an industry to be established which will
be a source of considerable wealth and
revenue to the Territory.
	MARGARET A. CAINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CONVENTION NOTES.

	THE Riggs Housewill be the Conven-
tion Headquarters, where the Correspond-
ing Secretarywill be glad to receive any 
persons arriving in Washington on
Wednesday, February 14, and desiring to
call for special information.
	State Presidents and Members of the
Executive Committee Meeting, Thursday,
February 15, at 9 a. m., in Metzerott’s
Hall. (Small Hall second floor.)
	Complimentary tickets for the evening
sessions have been reserved for officers and
delegates, and will be furnished to each
State President for her delegation, im-
mediately at the close of the Thursday
morning session of the Convention.
	Among the distinguished local speakers
who will take part in the sessions of the
approaching Convention in Washington,
are the District Commissioner Ross, who
will welcome the Convention at the open-
ing session, and the well known Hebrew
Philanthropist, Hon. Simon Wolf, who will
speak on Saturday evening.
	The President’s Evening a new and very
attractive, feature of the coming Washing-
ton Convention, will be Monday, Feb. 18.
Each State president will be limited to
seven minutes and “Time” will be called.
So that everyone who attends the Conven-
tion on this evening will be sure of having
no opportunity to sleep.


REV. MARY TRAFFERN WHITNEY, of
West Somerville, Mass., was invited to pre-
side over the meeting of the Unitarian
clergymen of Boston and vicinity recently
and did so with grace and dignity.

	LADIES in New Zealand have the fran-
chise. They also take their hats off in the
theatre. If this is a case of cause and
effect, the cause of woman’s suffrage is
likely to have a boom.—Lowell Times.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A FRAGMENT.

I ONLY take my hand in thine, and all my pulses
	thrill to thee:
An indefinable, transporting joy, which lifts my
	soul in ecstacy;
Some charmed spell which life invigorates,
A potent power that wakens tenderness:
And truest comfort doth to me impart
An intuition of my woman’s heart,
Which seems of some lost love a counterpart
And adds its joy to human happiness.

The pent up fountains of my inner life gush
	tenderly to thee;
Thou call’st from out the deep recesses of my
	soul sweet sympathy;
I'm launched as ’twere into a maze of doubt—
I seem in retrospection’s cloudy land 
And misty phantoms shift and change to view,
And all the sombre past wears violet hue,
And shadowy forms appear which erst I knew
While I sit silently and hold thy hand.

Methinks I wander dreamily ’mid bow’rs of roses
	without thorns,
And e’en the air is conscious, with the beauty
	which the scene adorns,
And rippling brooks make music in my ears,
And lightest zephyrs whisper 'mid the trees,
As though the fairy elves made holiday,
And witching charms of nature’s melody
Envelop ev’ry sense in mystery,
And subtlest perfumes float upon the breeze.

Thus wrapt with silence as a mantle round my
	soul, thoughts come and go.
And answ’ring echoes from the distant past
	seem rippling soft and low.
And all the while I feel the magic touch
That brings such harmony of sight and sound
And charity and love my bosom swell.
With that intensity no tongue can tell,
And thy bright presence vivifies the spell;
And I am treading on enchanted ground.

Thou’rt gone! The vision’s fled! And moon and
	stars are dull, and sober night
Reigns all around in darken’d robes, and mocks
	as ’twere my lost delight;
And then some pitying angel softly speaks
Mortal ’twas but a glimpse of love and Heaven,
Back now to earth and thorny paths again, 
Stern duty holds thee with a tightened rein.
Plod on, and strive some victory to obtain,
And love eternal will to thee be given.
							E. B. W.


SOUVENIRS OF LILAC-TIME.

	FANCIFUL as it may seem to practical
people, who affect to ignore sentiment in
its relation to the wonderful, nevertheless I
have the courage to declare myself a de-
voted admirer, not only of the beautiful
and fantastic, but of the weird in nature.
It is a part of my composition, and per-
haps I am not altogether answerable if it is
not strictly “proper.” Lilacs are one of
my especial weaknesses, for they are as-
sociated with the earliest recollections of my
child-life and school-girl history. I never
see a lilac but it calls up tender memories
connected with the past, that thrill me
through and through like electricity. The
sweet-scented lilacs with their handsome
foliage, great “dark, green, heart-shaped
leaves. Artistic shubbery that forms many
a shady pathway round the homes of the
people; within whose shadow many a love-
tale has been told and troth plighted; the
very name is musically poetical. Love
letters have been hidden away from curious
eyes mid the luxuriant branches, to wait

[Column 2]
the coming of the ardent sweet-heart to
read his true-love’s words by starlight.
And, if I may tell it, the lilacbush oft holds
many a precious secret silently. How
pleasant to recall the sweet remembrances
that linger round the lilacs that bloomed in
the dear old garden and door-yard of our
early, happy home. A thousand other
beauties come with lilac time and all these
have their place in the affections and
mingle freely with external objects. All
have their associations and call up particu-
lar incidents, persons, or friendships each
one having its own peculiar music, which
finds its echo reverberating thro’ the brain
and the sight of one of these strikes the
chord or touches the note which wakens
responding symphony in the soul, and a
long train of half remembered indistinct
thoughts struggle for recognition in words.

	Spring time and beauty of wood, of field,
of grove and glen, songs of birds, hum of
bees, dance of butter-flies, and e’en the
melancholy croaking of the melancholy
frogs, the jocund and sparkling brooks, the
cerulean sky; these are synonyms of lilac-
time. Thewood violets we call wild, little,
pale delicate emblems of innocence, abound
at this season. How often have I gathered
them in my woodland rambles, and how
grateful was their exquisite fragrance!
How tenderly they appealed to the finer
elements of my nature as I wreathed them
with the soft, fresh, green vines, and my
own love of the fantastic and weird grew
more and more apparent as I listened with
keenest zest to the sounds of forest music.
Only “those who know,” can appreciate 
the feeling that comes to the soul awake to
all the fancies, as well as realities of a
deep wooded dell. The pearly drops of
morning dew on leaf and flower and blade
of grass, the charming atmosphere at sun-
rise, the rich delightful sunsets, the evening
twilight, the starlit nights, the mellow,
healing moonlight—all these are associated
with lilac-time. The early lilies, bright
and beautiful, always reminding us of the
Savior’s words “they toil not, neither do
they spin”—beautiful words which lead us
to “Consider.” In the lilacs the blue-birds
sing and sway on the light boughs and
swallows dart hither and thither, and O
how delightful the music mingles with the
happy thoughts of youth and maiden.
	Then too the apple-orchards bloom, and
daintily the pink and white perfumed leaves
bestrew the ground. The birds are build-
ing their nests and singing pretty songs to
woo their mates meantime, and thus it is
that lilac-time and the pale apple-bloom,
symbolize the love-making. To linger in
the orchards and drink in the sweet fra-
grance in the open air, while the happy
birds keep merry time to the music of fond
hearts, is to partake most freely at nature’s
banquet. It is good for us to commune
thus with nature’s heart, to cultivate in our
souls an intensity of affection for the artistic
works of a divine being, and become en-
deared to Him more and more through our
high appreciation, not only of his love for
us, but all that he has caused to be for our
joy and delectation. Communion with the
mysterious in what is termed the vegetable
kingdom, exalts one’s nature by very con-
tact, and, indeed, when one speaks of heav-
en, or paradise it is always as the place of
immortal flowers, and is associated in the
mind as artistically perfect in all its
characteristics. 			AUNT EM.


WHEN WOMEN VOTE.

	I DO not expect to see woman suffrage
come upon the stage arm in arm with the
millenium. If the movement effects any
reforms it will be the reclaiming of national
buildings and thoroughfares from their
masculine uncleanliness. I anticipate a
national house-cleaning such as this country
has never beheld; and the cleaners, a vast
army, fully armed with mops, brooms and
buckets, wiil be made up, not of men, but
of women. Why not? In private homes
the housekeeper is a woman, why should
not the housekeeper in our national homes
be also a woman?
	Under woman suffrage women will solve
the gigantic problem of street-cleaning by
cleaning the streets themselves. Again,
why not? In many foreign cities, in the
late hours of the night I have seen columns
and columns of women, brooms in hand,
grooming and polishing the streets so thor-
oughly that women pedestrians the next
day allowed their skirts to drag as they
would in their own drawing-rooms.
	Then, too, women would look more to
the sanitary condition of the abodes of the
poor; and best of all, we should see, at last,
woman receiving as much pay for the same
work as man.
	But, as I have said, I do not expect the
millenium. Suffrage alone, by itself, has
made men no better; why should it make
women better?—Dr. Jennie M. Lozier in
Demorest's Monthly.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN suffrage has begun to make
progress even in France. On Jan. 20, the
French Senate, by a vote of 132 to 84, ex-
tended to women engaged in business the
right to vote for judges of the tribunals of
commerce.
	MISS PIER a fascinating lawyer of Mil-
waukee, and a graduate of the University
of Wisconsin Law School, was, on motion
of Col. Vilas, admitted to the Supreme
Court of the United States, Wednesday of
this week.
	“GIRLS are teachers in all our public
schools, their salaries and position are
largely decided by the political favor of
those who have votes. Those who have a
voice in the appointment of school superin-
tendents, commissioners of education and
trustees and the salaries of teachers, would
be more likely to receive favors than those
who have no political influence whatever.”
	“GIRLS have the same interest in good
government that their brothers have and
they have equally responsible duties to ful-
fil in the State, the church and the home,
hence their influence, and their opinions
should have equal weight in the framing of
laws, and the choice of law makers. It is
the right and duty of every girl to vote
when she attains the legal age of twenty -
one.”
	A SCHOOL suffrage bill has been introduced
in the Ohio House of Representatives by
Mr. Wood to extend the right of snffrage to
women, and to make them eligible for
school officers. Another bill introduced
provides that married women shall be
eligible to perform the duties of executrix
or administratrix whether married before or
after their appointment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY	FEBRUARY 1, AND 15, 1894.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A VERY important measure to women
that the Legislature has in hand is
to make women eligible to appointment on
Boards of Education and other Boards where
women are specially concerned or are in-
mates of Asylums, Homes etc.
	A MEMORIAL is before the House asking
that the Woman’s Industrial Home in this
City be given to the Women of the Ter-
ritory for a Woman’s Hospital, which is
certainly more in accord with the intention
of the appropriation made by Congress to
establish the Home,than any purpose which
Congress has been asked to consider here-
tofore.
	SISTERS Zina D. H. Young and Jane S.
Richards of the Relief Society Presidency
each celebrated her birthday anniversary on
Jan. 31st. Mrs. Young in Salt Lake City,
Mrs. Richards in Ogden. We have notices
for publication, but had to lay them over as
this issue is special matter relating to Utah
prepared to distribute at the Midwinter Fair
in San Francisco.
	THERE are several bills now pending in
the Legislature in which women should be
specially interested. One is a “School for
the Blind” which should by all means be
passed for if there is any class that are en-
titled to material help it is those who are
deprived of the blessing of light, and all
that can tend to make their life happier
should certainly be done.
	THERE is a bill before the House of
Representatives asking for a bounty on
cocoons, for the purpose of encouraging the
silk industry in Utah. It was thought by
women specially interested in the Silk
Exhibit in the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair which was such a gratifying
success,that to offer some inducement to the
people who raise cocoons, would be the
best method of fostering this important in-
dustry because it would go direct to the
producer. Too much cannot be done to
build up a home production that will cer-
tainly be, if effort is properly directed in
the enterprise, a remunerative business and
light work in which women and children
can engage in their own homes.
	THE Assembly of Women which con-
vened under the auspices of the Utah W.
S. A. on Saturday, February third was
quite a success in the way of numbers, and
the speeches were logical and eloquent and
it will no doubt be the means of awakening

[Column 2]
thought upon a subject, which has been
considered of little or no consequence to
many women who have always been pro-
tected and who may be counted as a
privileged class. The Hall was ap-
propriately decorated for the occasion, the
life-size pictures of two of the most distin-
guished champions of the cause hung on
either side of the speaker’s stand, and the
stars and stripes were displayed above the
platform. The President of the W. S. A.
called the meeting to order and the Secre-
tary read the call after which the President
stated the object of the meeting and the
“Battle Hymn of the Republic,” by Julia
Ward Howe, was sung by Miss Maude
Pratt and Miss Pearl Russell the audience
joining. Dr. Elvira S. Barney offered
prayer and the song “New America” was
enthusiastically rendered. Mr. John
Irvine favored the ladies’ by making a re-
port in short hand of the speeches in full.
The first speaker was Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young President of the National Woman’s
Relief Society, she was followed by Hon.
John E. Booth member of the Legislative
Assembly from Provo. Miss Babcock
recited that telling poem of Mrs. Browning’s
“A Woman’s Question” par excellence.
Dr. Hughes Cannon made a stirring address
closing it with a poem, which was quite
thrillingly rendered. Mrs. Bessie Dean
Allison who came from Ogden expressly to
be present, sang in her own sweet way,
“The Journey is Long,” accompanied on
the organ by Alvin Beesley. Dr. Has-
brouk followed in a five minutes speech
making some strong points in favor of suf-
frage, and George D. Pyper sung in his ex-
quisite style “The Araby’s Daughter,”
Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, President Davis Co.
W. S. A. next addressed the meeting, and
S. W. Richards Esq. made the closing and
very able address. The audience sang
“Help the Workingmen,” and the meeting
was adjourned. Full minutes of the
speeches will be given in ‘the next issue of
the paper.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF MUSIC IN UTAH.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.

	WESTWARD the star of music takes its
way.  The sovereignty of the realm of
music in America had long been divided
among the older cities of the republic, when
in 1893, Utah, the young giant of the
West, entered the arena to contest for the
World’s Fair prizes, and sent to Chicago a
picked  choir of 250 voices to compete with
the artistic and famed choral organizations
of the Old and New World for the crowning
honors of the World’s Fair Eisteddfod.
Much praise was expressed for the nerve
and pluck of this ambitious but hitherto
undistinguished competitor, which was
changed to astonishment and wonder when
the Utah choir stepped triumphantly to the
second place, and almost snatched from the
brows of the Cymric bards the laurels of
their forefathers. The following history of
music in Utah will show the gradual de-
velopment of the divine art, that led to the
attainment of the present high standard of
musical taste and culture in this community,
and rendered possible the magnificent
achievements of the Utah Choir.
	In the growth of civilization and the un-
folding of social development, music and
her twin sister poetry take precedence of all
the arts, and present an unmistakable index

[Column 2]
to national character. The pioneer settlers
who crossed the Rocky Mountains to make
homes in the valley of the Great Salt Lake
were certain in the early stage of their
peculiar civilization to manifest the genius
of music, and the hosts of Israel beguiled
many an hour of their weary march across
the continent by singing the songs of Zion.
	The first musical organization formed in
Utah was a brass band, composed of fifteen
musicians, under the leadership of Captain
William Pitt, which commenced its labors
in 1850 and for several years furnished the
music on every anniversary and local cele-
bration, and assisted the first dramatic as-
sociation in its representations. In 1857
Dominico Ballo, an Italian, highly endowed
with the musical genius of his race came to
Salt Lake City, and electrified the people
with his performances on the clarionet, on
which instrument he was unrivalled, both
in tone, style and execution. Soon after
his arrival he organized “Ballo's Band” of
twenty instruments, viz, seven B flat
clarionets, one E flat, played by himself,
two piccolos, two first cornets, two second
cornets, one opheicleide, three brass horns,
one tenor, trombone and drums. This
combination created great excitement on its
first appearance, and continued to gain
power and renown by its skilful rendition
of some of the most difficult compositions
of the day. Ballo was a fine composer,
though but few of his works survive, and
his name will always be held in reverence
as the most cultured of the musical pioneers
of Utah.
	In 1853 David O. Calder, the pioneer
class teacher of vocal music came to Salt
Lake City, and settled over Jordan where
he taught the first singing school in the
Territory. In 1861 he organized two
classes of two hundred members each for
instruction in the Curwen tonic sol-fa me-
thod, which was the first introduction of
the system in America. He compiled, ar-
ranged and printed the class books used.
In 1862 Mr. Calder organized the Deseret
Musical Association, composed of two hun-
dred picked singers from the different classes
under his tuiton. This society gave several
concerts in the Theater and Tabernacle with
marked success, and during its existence
stimulated musical culture among the peo-
ple of Utah.
	In 1862, Professor Charles J. Thomas,
who had for years been associated with
some of the principal theater orchestras in
London, came to Salt Lake City, and at
once took charge of the orchestra at the
new Salt Lake Theater, then just opened,
and under his leadership it maintained for
several years a high standard of excellence.
As a conductor of the Tabernacle choir,
Professor Thomas did some excellent work,
and he long held a ruling musical position.
	Professor John Tullidge also deserves
mention at this time as a fine tenor singer
and composer. His name will be remem-
bered as long as his anthem “How beauti-
ful upon the mountains" delights the ears
of a Salt Lake audience. 
	The man who did most for the early
musical progress of Salt Lake City, and
the establishment of the legitimate profess-
ion is undoubtedly Professor George Care-
less. Born in London, and trained with
some of the greatest instrumentalists of the
day, under the batons of such masters as
Sir Michael Costa, Sir Jules Benedict, and
other famous conductors, Mr. Careless
brought to Salt Lake City in 1865 such
musical genius, brilliant execution and


[Column 1]
talent for leadership as produced a complete
revolution in musical circles and created
quite a furore of enthusiasm among the
music loving people of the community.
During the earlier years that he held the 
leadership of the Theater orchestra he pro-
duced a number of musical plays, including
Macbeth, The Brigand, Aladdin and
Cinderella, for the two latter he composed
the entire music, consisting of solos, duets
choruses and dramatic interludes. During
this engagement he conducted the first opera
ever given in Utah, the Grand Duchess, by
the Howson troupe,
	In 1875, the great musical event in the
city, was the performance of the oratorio of
the Messiah by the Philharmonic Society,
under the training and conductor-ship of
Professor Careless, with over two hundred
singers, and a full orchestra. The perfor-
mance was a great musical triumph, and 
was pronounced by the critics of the day a
presentation far superior both in its vocal
and orchestral excellence, to the perfor-
mance of the same oratorio in San Francis-
co with Madame Anna Bishop and or the
vocal celebrities in the principal parts. In
the instrumentation, the first violins and
the cornet obligato of Mr. Mark Croxall,
were particularly fine; while among the
vocalists, the palm of excellence belonged
without any question to Mrs. Careless, the
wife of Professor Careless, whose rendition
of “I know that my Redeemer liveth” was
simply perfection. Her pure, sweet, bell-
like tones, and her exquisite delivery, in-
tense with feeling, rose almost in this
selection to the exalted pitch of epic song.
The fact that this oratorio could be execut-
ed in such perfection by a local association,
and call out a high class audience fully
capable of appreciating such music, proves
that Salt Lake City even then was one of
the great musical centers of the world, a
pre-eminence that her subsequent history
proudly maintains.
	Professor Careless also conducted the cele-
brated Parepa Rosa Concerts in 1868, the
Anna Bishop concert in the Tabernacle
and the grand Wilhelmj concerts in the
Theater in 1880, and received from the
great virtuoso the highest praise and many 
marks of personal esteem.
	In 1879, Professor Careless gave Sulli-
van’s opera of “Pinafore” and later “The 
Mikado,” both brilliant successes, and
rendered exclusively by home talent. In
1885 he succeeded in organizing the largest
local orchestra ever brought together in this
city, consisting of forty-five members.
During his partnership in the musical busi-
ness with Mr. D. O. Calder, the firm im-
ported a large number of musical instru-
ments of all kinds, and published the “Salt
Lake Musical Times,” the first musical
publication west of Chicago. For fourteen
years Professor Careless was the trainer
and conductor of the Tabernacle choir, and
by his faithful and unwearied labors, laid
the foundation of that artistic excellence
which rendered its recent brilliant success
possible. To Mrs. Lavinia Careless, be-
longs by right of her rare genius the
highest niche of fame among our musical
stars. With a voice of phenomenal pur ity
and resonance, united with the most perfect
control and culture, she so educated Salt
Lake City audiences to quality and subli-
mity in music, that only a Patti could sing
here without being adversely compared
with her.
	In giving the musical history of Salt

[Column 2]
Lake City, prominent mention must be
made of the grand organ in the Tabernacle.
When it was commenced in 1866, all the
materials necessary for building it had to be
obtained from the East, and hauled across
the plains, and over the mountains in wag-
ons. It shows how deeply the love of
music was rooted in the hearts of the early
settlers in Utah, when in the face of such
almost insuperable obstacles, they planned
and successfully carried to completion the
erection of such a magnificent instrument,
at that time the second largest in the world.
The architect and designer of ths grand
organ was Mr. Joseph Ridges, who worked
on it for many years, but to Mr. Johnson
belongs the credit of bringing it to its pres-
ent perfect completion. It has four man-
uals, and pedal; fifty seven stops, and two
thousand six hundred and forty eight pipes,
supplied with wind by three large bellows,
operated by two hydraulic motors. In its
completed form, situated in one of the most
perfect acoustic buildings in the world, it is
justly an object of pride to our city and the
wonder and admiration of strangers. When
Professor Careless resigned the conductor-
ship of the Philharmonic Society, Professor
Radcliff came to Salt Lake City and took
the vacant position, and a year later gave
“The Creation” in the theater with marked
success. Professor Radcliff is a great
organist, and his recitals given on the
Tabernacle organ proves his complete
mastership of that noble instrument. In
1878, in order to meet the growing demand
for musical education, the Utah Conserva-
tory of music was opened in Salt Lake City
with Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson as director.
This institution devoted to the study of
music in all its branches, included system-
atic courses for the voice, and all instru-
ments in common use, with instruction in
Musical Theory, Notation, Tone Reading
and Elocution, and was for several years
the principal school of music in the Terri-
tory, many of its pupils are among our best
amateur musicians and vocalists today.
Among our local musicians also may be
mentioned Professor Joseph J. Daynes,
pupil of G. W. Morgan of New York, who
has presided at the Tabernacle organ since
1867, and Professor Orson Pratt, an able
teacher of the piano, harmony and counter-
point.
	Among our noted violin soloists Mr.
Willard Weihe stands in the front rank. A
protege of Ole Bull, for whom he played at
the early age of ten years, he has by force
of his genius and perseverance worked him-
self up to the highest position, and under
the tuition of the celebrated Vieuxtemps,
developed a marvelous technique that has
rarely been equaled except by a virtuoso.
His exquisite rendition of the works of the
great masters, is at once an inspiration, and
an artist’s dream.
	In 1881 Professor H. S. Krouse came to
Salt Lake City, and at once established him-
self as a first class musician and teacher,
and during his residence here has steadily
risen in the appreciation of all lovers of
classical music, until he now stands at the
head of his profession with a reputation
second to none as a teacher of piano and
the Higher Techniques. As a conductor
of opera and concert, he is a grand success
and his representation of Fatinitza was a
brilliant and artistic performance. In this
opera, Miss Jennie Hawley, (now Mrs. H.
C. Woodrow) a pupil of Professor Krouse,
took the title role, in which her exquisite

[Column 3]
contralto voice was heard to great advan-
tage. In setting before his pupils a high
standard of musical taste and culture, and
enconraging the study of the works of the
great masters, Professor Krouse has done
more for the advancement of classical and
High Art Music than any one else in this
community, and many of his pupils have
become creditable teachers, among whom
special mention must be made of Mrs.
Joseph McIntyre, at present a prominent
and successful teacher in Oneida N. Y. The 
annual recitals given by Professor Krouse’s
pupils are classical entertainments of a
high order. The programme for the com-
ing recital includes concertos by Henselt,
Chopin and Mendelssohn with orchestral
accompaniment on second piano, also com-
positions by Liszt, Liebling, Beethoven,
Rubenstein, Gottschalk and Wieniawski,
rendered by a number of his advanced
pupils who give promise of great musical
attainments in the near future.
	A long list of performers on piano, or-
gan, violin and other instruments might be
given, which together with a number of -
vocalists of unusual excellence justify the
claim that we are in Salt Lake City especial-
ly a music loving and appreciative people,
and that no Territory, and but few States
in our land can equal Utah in the progress
made in the divine art. Especially in this
the truth with regard to choral music.
Salt Lake leads with the largest church
choir in the world—the Tabernacle Choir
with 600 enrolled members—the Choral
Society three hundred in number, thirty
choirs belonging to the various churches in
the city, averaging at least twenty voices
each, making a grand total of fifteen hun-
dred choristers in this city alone. Add to
these the two hundred and fifty choirs in
the various towns and settlements together
with all the Sunday school choristers in the
Territory and Utah may well claim to be
the land of music, song and sunshine.
	To Professor Evan Stephens, a practical
musician and composer of considerable
native genius as well as professional train-
ing, is due the success of the general move-
ment in class teaching in the Sunday
schools of the Territory. Possessed of
rare personal magnetism, a born musical
leader with perfect choral control, he sways
the hundreds of children on the stage with
a few simple movements of his baton,
maintaining a perfect tempo, with the most
exquisite variation of forte and piano. The
concert of National songs given in the
Tabernacle on February 22nd 1893 by
twelve hundred children under fifteen years
of age, was repeated seven times to large
and enthusiastic audiences, and demonstra-
ted the possibility of a high standard of
musical training for children, thus educat-
ing a generation of musicians who will in
future years maintain Utah’s musical supre-
macy in the Rocky Mountains. The great-
est achievement of Professor Stephen’s
career has been the training and successful
competition of 250 members of the Taber-
nacle choir at the World’s Fair Eisteddfod.
The three competitive choruses were “Wor-
thy is the Lamb,” (Messiah) “Blessed are
the men,” (Elijah) and “Now the impet-
uous torrents rise,” (David & Saul) and
these had been practiced for many months
by the trained choirs who entered the con-
test for the World’s Fair prizes. The Utah
choir who had less than three months for
preparation, sang the numbers without
copies, and carried off the second prize of
$1000. The journey of the choir to and


from Chicago was a perfect ovation. Per-
formances were given in six cities en route,
and the greatest enthusiasm was manifested
by all the people who attended their con-
certs, while the press was unstinted in
praise of their efforts. "Utah's triumph in
Chicago" is only the stimulus to greater
efforts and the pledge of more brilliant suc-
cesses in the future. Proud as we may
justly be of our past musical achievements
and present standing, our future possibilities
are far more glorious, and under the leader-
ship of such artists as Krouse, Careless,
Stephens, Radcliff and Weihe, Utah is des-
tined to become world famed for her un-
equaled musical excellence and progress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE DRAMA IN
UTAH.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.

	MUSIC and the Drama are two of the
most powerful agencies of civiliza-
tion. Brigham Young, the leader of
modern Israel in its exodus to these moun-
tains, with his profound knowledge of hu-
man nature, typed with his New England
sagacity, evinced consummate wisdom in
supplying his people with the means of
social and physical revivification. The
weariness of travel, and the labors of mak-
ing new homes, were enlivened by joyous
music, familiar songs, with the merry
dance and social ball. Arrived in the valley
of the Great Salt Lake the dance to the
Mormon, became almost like an institution,
and the ball a social sacrament. Out of
the Nauvoo brass band which left Nauvoo
with Brigham Young indirectly grew our
first theatrical company. An amalgama-
tion was effected between the members of
the band and certain ladies and gentlemen
possessing dramatic instincts and predilec-
tions, several of whom had also been con-
nected with theatrical, before they came in-
to the isolation of these mountains. The
project of organizing a company with a
combination of the musical and dramatic
elements, received the hearty sanction of
Brigham Young, and he at once became
the patron of the Salt Lake stage. The
first dramatic company organized consisted
of H. B. Clawson, James Ferguson, Phi
Margetts, John Kay, H. K. Whitney, Rob1
Campbell, R. T. Burton, William Clayton
and others; the ladies were Miss Orum,
Miss Judd (afterwards Mrs. Clawson) and
Miss Mary Badlam. Of these, only the
first three had received any professional
training. It bore the name of the
“Musical and Dramatic Company.” The
orchestra was composed of members of the
Nauvoo Band.
	There was a company now, but no
theater, nor even a hall of capacity sufficient
to give a public performance, while the
community were socially striving for public
amusements and recreation to enliven the
isolation of “a thousand miles from every-
where,” as their locality was then descri-
bed. The majority of the citizens in 1851
and 1852 were fresh from a land of theaters.
England, of thirty-five years ago was still
the England of Shakespear, and not of
Boucicault. There were those in Salt Lake
City who had seen Macready, some who
had seen John and Charles Kemble, their
sister, Sarah Siddons,and Edmund Kean on
the stage in their native land. The major-
ity of the British people in the valley at
that period were from London, Birming-

[Column 2]
ham, Manchester, Leeds, Yorkshire and
Edinburgh, where the common people for
generations have been accustomed to go to
the theater and the philharmonic concerts,
to see the best of acting and hear the
divinest singing for a few pence. Such a
community could not possibly have got
along without their theater, nor been con-
tent with their isolation, without something
to awaken pleasurable reminiscences of
their native land Their sagacious head
sensed all this and he at once gave to the
newly formed “Musical and Dramatic Com-
pany,” the “Old Bowery” where the con-
gregation of saints met for Sabbath wor-
ship, and it was there—in the only temple
or tabernacle Zion had in those days—that
home theatricals took their rise. If the
Church stooped in this, she but gave her
helping hand to civilization, without losing
aught of her own caste, for those actors
and musicians were her own ordained elders
and high priests. The first play ever
produced it Utah was one called “The
Triumph of Innocence” in which Mr. H.
P. Richards took a leading part, but this
was previous to the existence of any organ-
ized dramatic association. Historical interest
is always associated with the first programme
of every notable institution, therefore we
mention here the first cast of the first dra-
matic company of Utah. The play pro-
duced on the occasion was Robert Macaire.
The cast was as follows:
Robert Macaire...............John Kay.
Jaques Strop,............H. B. Clawson.
Pierre,................Phillip Margetts.
Marie,......................Miss Orum.
Clementina,..............Miss M. Judd.
Several other plays were produced during
the season and it is said they were creditab-
ly performed by the company. More than
a thousand persons witnessed each of these
performances, showing that the theatrical
audiences in the “Old Bowery” in the win-
ter of 1851-2 were larger than the average
audiences in 1885 with a Madame Ristori
playing her magnificent role of historical
plays in the “Big Theater.”
	The company played in the “Old
Bowery” for two years during which time
a number of high class plays were pro-
duced in one of which, “The Stranger” the
brilliant James Ferguson took the title
role.
	In 1851 the company was re-organized
under Bishop Raleigh as president, and
named the “Deseret Dramatic Association.”
In 1852 the historic “Social Hall” was
built and opened by the association, with
the performance of Buhver’s classical play
of the “Lady of Lyons.” A splendid or-
chestra under the direction of Professor
Ballo contributed to the eclat of the oc-
casion. The association now numbered
among its members, John T. Caine, David
McKenzie, D. O. Calder, W. C. Dunbar,
Henry Maiben and others; and with this
added strength were enabled to cast first
class plays, but after a few years the Utah
war broke up for a time both the theatrical
performances and the Dramatic Association
itself.
	On the return of Phil. Margetts from
England, he organized a company under
the name of the “Mechanic’s Dramatic
Association,” and with Harry Bowring,
Henry McEwan, Mrs. Marian Bowring and
others revived the social life of the people,
and began a series of performances in a
room fitted up in H. E. Bowring’s house,
with stage and scenery painted by W. C.

[Column 3]
Morris. This was the first place in Utah
that bore the distinctive appellation of
Theater, and marks the birth of the dra-
matic era proper, and led to the building
of the Salt Lake Theater, and the re-organ-
ization of the Deseret Dramatic Association.
	It was just at the outbreak of the civil war
in America that the theatrical history pro-
per of our city commenced.
	The Utah war was a memory of the past,
Camp Floyd was evacuated, all in Zion
was peace, for though the nation was en-
gaged in war neither Utah nor California
had the honor of taking part in it. In 1861,
our citizens saw a colossal building in pro-
cess of erection and it was known that
Brigham Young designed to give the Mor-
mons a great theater, one of the best in
America, and one that in its appointments
and accessories should bear favorable com-
parison with the theaters of the East
	The Salt Lake Theater was opened to the
public on March 6th 1862, and stands a
monument of our Rocky Mountain civili-
zation, emulating in many respects its
prototype, the Old Globe Theater of Lon-
don which under Shakespeare’s manage-
ment, voiced the dramatic genius of a new
epoch. 
	The ceremony of the dedication of the
new theater, was the remarkable event of
the opening, and nothing in the history of
the English and American stage is so
unique in its object and sentiment. Re-
served seats were placed before the curtain
for the First Presidency and officials of the
Church, and at the appointed hour Brigham
Young as president of the Dramatic As-
sociation called the house to order. The
choir sang the hymn “Lo, on the mountain
tops appearing,” and President Daniel H.
Wells offered the dedication prayer in which
he imploud the blessing of the most High
upon the building and all its appointments,
and upon the actors and actresses and all
who perform in it, and dedicating the whole
to virtue, sobriety, and excellence, for the
glory of God and the prosperity and good
of this people. After the prayer the or-
chestra and choir performed the “Star
Spangled Banner” and the President gave
an impressive address on the true mission of
the drama. Other addresses followed inter-
spersed with songs and music.
	Not in the whole history of the stage,
ancient or modern, was ever a theater thus
endowed as a sacred dramatic temple for the
people. Probably Brigham Young at that
time had never heard the text of the play
of Hamlet, yet he described the object of
the drama as it was designed by him for the
Salt Lake Theater very much like the spirit
and exposition of Hamlet to the players;
“The purpose of playing, whose end, both
at the first, and now, was, and is, to hold
as ’twere the mirror up to nature; to show
virtue her own feature, scorn her own im-
age, and the very age and body of the
time, his form and pressure,” and it may
be regarded as one of the strange things of
dramatic history that Brigham Young, a
man of no art culture but what was self
evolved, the high priest of a despised
church, should have lifted the theater to the
conception of the great high priests of
dramatic art, and given it its proper place
alongside the church, as one of the great
teachers of humanity, as powerful in its in-
fluence on the intellectual, as the church is
on the spiritual development of society.
	The opening pieces played in the Salt
Lake Theater on March 8, 1862 were the
“Pride of the Market” and “State Secrets,”


[Column 1]
and the first season under the management
of Clawson and Caine was a gratifying success.
	Before the opening of the second season, 
the veteran actor Mr. T. A. Lyne was sent
for by his former pupil, Manager Clawson,
and engaged as tutor to the company. Dur-
ing this season the following fine plays were
given. "The Honeymoon" with John T.
Caine as Duke Aranza, Phil Margetts as
the Mock Duke; "Virginus" with Bernard
Snow in the title role; "Damon and
Pythias" with Lyne as Damon, and "Pizarro"
with John T. Caine, Lyne, J. F. Simmons
Mrs. Marian Bowring in the cast. Later
on, Lyne played Virginius and again Da-
mon, in which he has been acknowledged
to have had no equal in America, excepting
Forrest himself, then as Shylock in the
"Merchant of Venice" gave a fine exposi-
tion of "the jew that Shakespeare drew"
in which Edmund Kean, won the scepter of
the English stage. In the third season
1863-4 the Irwins reigned and gave a great
variety of plays, being well supported by
the home company. In the "Colleen
Bawn" Dave McKenzie scored a triumph
as Danny Mann; and his impersonation has
never been excelled on the Salt Lake stage.
	In 1864 Mr. George Pauncefort, an ac-
complished English actor, with Mrs.
Florence Bell, came to Salt Lake City, and
alternated his light classics against T. A.
Lyne's grander, statelier parts of the old 
school, giving to the public a pleasing 
variety of the old legitimate and new legi-
timate class of plays. This refined and
finished artist gave as his opening play
"The Romance of a Poor Young Man" in 
which he wrought out one of the most ac-
complished and natural works of dramatic
art. Lyne followed the next night with
the "Merchant of Venice" and the two 
artists held the boards alternately during
the season of 1864-5. Among the plays
given during this engagement were "Mac-
beth," "Hamlet," "Don Cesar de Bazan,"
"Belphegor," "Damon and Pythias," and
under the stimulus afforded by such finish-
ed performances, the stock company at-
tained to much greater excellence and were
capable of executing star plays of the 
second class. The queen of the Salt Lake
stage was undoubtedly Julia Dean Hayne,
who made her debut in Salt Lake City in
1865 in the play of "Camille" a represen-
tation that stirred the heart of the Theater
going public of the city to profound hom-
age to her genius and art. So cordially did
she reciprocate this kind feeling, that she
remained here nearly two years, swaying
the scepter over the local company and
educating them by her brilliant example.
Her repertoire included "Medea" "Lucretia
Borgia" "Lady Macbeth" "School for 
Scandal" "Parthenia" in "Ingomar" "Lady
of Lyons" "Evadne" and other plays of a 
similar class, every one of which in her
hands were works of the highest dramatic
art.
	During this decade the stars of the stock
company were Miss Alexander, Miss Adams,
Miss Lockhart, Nellie Colebrook, David
McKenzie, James Hardie, John Lindsay
and Phil Margetts. With the retirement o[-]
David McKenzie from the stage in 1869, the
old Deseret Dramatic Company may be
said to have ended its career. From 1870
to 1880 the theatrical business in Salt Lake
City declined both in interest and prestige.
The new combination did not come up to 
the old company in talent or enthusiasm,
and their performances interspersed with

[Column 2]
the engagements of a few notable profes-
sionals passing across the continent, served
just to keep alive the dramatic spirit, which
now awaited its re-incarnation in the Home
Dramatic Club of recent fame.
	This club the outcome of the Wasatch
and Azalea Literary societies numbered
among its members, the sons and daughters
of many of the old time histrionic cele-
brities, a generation of amateurs, who drew
their first draughts of dramatic inspiration
from witnessing the performances of twenty
five years ago. Under the tuition of one
of the former-day stars, Mr. David
McKenzie, the club developed a marked
degree of dramatic ability, and when they 
made their first bow to a Salt Lake audience,
in "The Romance of a Poor Young Man"
their success revived the recollection of the
former triumphs of our local artists. The
cast was as follows:

Manuel .............. Laron Cummings.
Dr. Desmarets ............ O. F. Whitney.
Mons De Berannes ........ H. M. Wells.
Gasper Laroque .......... J. D. Spencer.
M. Nouret ................ C. S. Burton.
Alain ...................... H. Horsley.
Marguerite Laroque .. Miss Lottie Claridge.
Mlle Helonin ...... Mrs. Della Cummings.
Mad. Aubrey .......... Miss Lida Wells.
Mad Laroque ........ Mrs. S. H. Clawson.
Christine ............ Little Ivy Clawson.

	The performance was a complete success,
and was presented again and again to still
larger audiences than the one that greeted 
their opening night, thus proving that the 
decadence of home drama was not due to
lack of appreciation on the part of a people
who had loved the Salt Lake stage from
the night when the footlights first blazed
there.
	The personel of the new club did much
to pre-dispose the public in its favor, and
though as years passed on, changes were
made in the organization, the names of the
members remained much the same, younger
branches of the family taking the places of
those who retired for various reasons to
private life. Instead of the heavy dramas
and tragedies which afforded the triumphs
of early days, they aimed at modern me-
thods. For the fire and passion of the
romantic and classical plays they substituted
the finesse and polish of emotional dramas
and eccentric comedies of the present
school, and from the time this club first
produced the "Romance" until the present,
it has continued to be the only dramatic
organization of importance to which the
city could lay claim. During the twelve
years of its existence, the club has presen-
ted a pleasing variety of plays with un-
wavering success. Their repertoire includes
"The Two Orphans" "Rosedale" "Pique"
"Extremes" "The Life of an Actress"
"Saratoga" "Diplomacy" "Storm Beaten"
"The Silver king" " The Banker's Daugh-
ter" "The Green Lanes of England"
"O. K. G." "Lights o'London" "Con-
fusion" and "Hazel Kirke." In "Con-
fusion," which is certainly the most finish-
ed piece of dramatic work ever done by the 
club, Lottie Claridge the leading lady, made
her greatest hit as Lucretia Trickeby, and
John D. Spencer as Christopher Blizzard
gave one of his most delightful characteri-
zations. Among the other members of the 
club (who by the way are all Utah born)
who have distinguished themselves might
be also mentioned Mr. H. M. Wells, the 
leading man, whose rendition of the parts
of Grimaldi in the "Life of an Actress,"

[Column 3]
Bob Sackett in Saratoga, and Christian
Christianson in Storm Beaten are artistic
triumphs; Mr. B. S. Young, who fills a line
of old men, character and comedy delinea-
tions, in a style peculiarly his own; and
Mr. H. G. Whitney who as manager of the
club, has contributed in no small degree to
its financial and dramatic success. Miss
Edith Clawson, might almost be said to
have been cradled on the stage; she was the
reigning "infant" for years, and her por-
trayal of Prince Arthur when Junius Bru-
tus Booth played King John, was one of 
Salt Lake's early theatrical sensations.
When the veteran Couldock was brought
from New York to play an engagement of
six performances with the club in Hazel
Kirke, Edith Clawson took the title role,
and in it soon merited recognition of her
talents as an emotional actress. Her sister,
Birdie Cummings is deservedly popular in 
soubrette roles, in which she has achieved 
decided success, while Ivy Clawson, an-
other member of the same talented family,
is a pleasing actress in ingenue and boy's
parts.
	The club has frequently played, with pro-
fessionals, and has always striven conscien-
tiously to present a high class of theatrical
attractions, and to produce its plays up to
the very best standard. In this endeavor
they have been ably seconded by Mr. C. S.
Burton, the present manager of the Salt
Lake Theater who shows no disposition to
allow the high purposes which animated its
distinguished founder to be swerved from,
and under his management, the theater
maintains its prestige as one of the most
popular dramatic temples of the Western
slope.
	In 1882 the Walker opera house, an ele-
gant and artistically arranged bijou theater
was opened, and until its destruction by 
fire a few years ago, was the scene of many
local and travelling dramatic and operatic
successes.
	Salt Lake City is universally conceded to
be "the best show town in the West" pos-
sessing the best amateur dramatic and
musical organizations in the country, at the
same time, the dramatic taste, critical dis-
cernment, and artistic culture of the com-
munity foreshadow a glorious art future un-
folding for Utah, when one of the brightest
niches in the world's temple of fame will 
be accorded to the genius of the land of the
Honey Bee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GROWTH OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	AT this time, when woman suffrage is
under consideration by the Massachussets
Legislature, a summary of the votes on
suffrage taken during the past year in other
State Legislatures may be of interest. 
	The Colorado House voted 39 to 21, and 
the Senate two to one, in favor of granting
women full suffrage, and it was ratified by
popular vote by 6,347 majority. In Ari-
zona, a full suffrage bill passed the House
17 to 6, and was lost by two votes in the
Senate. In Maine, a municipal suffrage
bill passed the Senate 16 to 13, and was de-
feated in the House by nine votes.
	The Kansas House voted 94 to 17, and
the Senate 32 to 5, in favor of a full suf-
frage amendment, which is now pending.
In Nebraska full suffrage was defeated in
the House, 46 to 42, and municipal suffrage
passed the House, 45 to 36, and was indefi-
nitely postponed in the Senate, 17 to 15.
	A full suffrage amendment passed the
Minnesota Senate, 31 to 19. It came up in


the House so late that it could only be
passed by suspending the rules. The
House voted, 54 to 44, to suspend the rules
in its favor, but failed to do so for want of
the necessary two-thirds.
	In North Dakota a full suffrage amend-
ment passed the Senate, 20 to 9, and the
House, 33 to 22, but was afterwards recon-
sidered in the House and lost.
	In Illinois a bill to repeal school suffrage
failed, no one voting for it except the
mover; and a bill to extend township suf-
frage to women passed the Senate, 27 to 11,
but failed in the House.
	In Michigan a bill granting municipal
suffrage to women, with an educational
qualification, passed the House, 57 to 25,
and the Senate, 18 to 11, and was signed
by the Governor, but was set aside by the
Supreme Court as unconstitutional.
	In California a school suffrage bill passed
the House, 42 to 27, and the Senate, 31 to
6, but was vetoed by the Governor. In
Vermont, where, in the constitutional con-
vention of 1870, a proposition for woman
suffrage received only one vote, a municipal
suffrage bill passed the last House, 149 to
83, and came so near passing the Senate
that a change of five votes would have
carried it. In New Mexico full Suffrage
passed the House by a large majority, but
did not reach a vote in the Senate.
	In Arkansas school suffrage passed the
Senate, but was laid on the table in the
House. In Connecticut a school suffrage
bill passed both branches of the Legislature,
was signed by the Governor, and is now
the law.
	In New York the last Legislature extend-
ed to women the right to vote for county
school commissioners, in addition to the
right to vote for ordinary school officers,
which the women have had since 1880.
But the Supreme Court has just set aside
the new law granting county school com-
missioners suffrage as unconstitutional.
	In Wyoming, the House of Representa-
tives, by a unanimous vote, after twenty-
five years’ experience, declared that woman
suffrage had worked well, and advised all
other States to adopt it.
	In Nova Scotia full suffrage was defeated
by 3 votes. In New Zealand full suffrage
passed both branches of the Legislature,
was signed by the Governor and is now the
law. In the British House of Commons,
suffrage was extended to all women, both
married and single, by the parish councils
bill, against the opposition of the govern-
ment, by a vote of 147 to 126. The House
of Commons has since voted to make
women eligible also to serve on the London
vestries.
	In our own country, while the only ac-
tual victories of the suffragists during the
past year have been in Colorado and Con-
necticut, the close votes in many other
States show the growth of public senti- 
ment upon the question.
	Years ago, when woman suffrage was
much more unpopular than now, Bishop
Gilbert Haven was asked by a friend
whether it were true that he had been speak-
ing at a suffrage meeting. “Yes,” an-
swered the bishop, “I don’t want to fall in
at the rear of this reform. I propose to
march with the profession!” A. S. B. Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS CONSTANCE FENIMORE WOOLSON,
the novelist, died Jan. 21 at Venice. She
was a grand-niece of James Fenimore
Cooper.


[Column 1]
MASS. SUFFRAGE HEARING, 1894.

EXTRACT.

	We ask that women may vote in order
that they may represent themselves, that
they may represent their class. They have
interests to protect as women. Let me in-
stance a case which occured within a week.
The police broke up a disorderly house, ar-
rested a large number of women, and an
equally large number of men, and what fol-
lowed? Every woman was sent to Sher-
born prison; every man was released with-
out penalty. Is that justice? We believe
in one standard of morality for men and
women. There are questions of marriage,
of divorce, of the right of a mother to her
children, of the protection of young girls,
of the rights and interests of widows and
orphans. Why, gentlemen, after forty
years of agitation, there is not a married
woman in Massachusetts who lives with
her husband, that has any legal control or
custody of her children. The husband
may take his young daughter and place
her behind a bar to sell liquor in the city of
Boston, and the wife can have no remedy
unless she leaves her husband, effects a
legal separation, breaks up the family, and
then goes to the Judge of probate and asks
for her child. Is that justice? Can you
imagine that this law in regard to the
custody of children would not be rectified
by this very Legislature, if women had
suffrage? The interests of women are not
represented and are not consulted as they
should be. Not because men desire to do
injustice to women, but because we have
our own affairs to look after. In conclusion
I appeal to you for a moment as members
of political parties. We are all party men;
we ought to be, if we believe in the
principles of our party. Now both parties
today are on trial in Massachusetts, much
more than woman suffrage is on trial.
The political result of municipal suffrage,
when it comes, will largely depend upon
the political complexions of the vote by
which the Legislature confers it. If an
equal proportion of Democrats and Re-
publicans extend suffrage to women, as
they ought to do, for it ought to be the
unanimous vote of both parties, then this
question would have no particular party
significance. Both parties would be up-
lifted. The spirit of both would be
changed by the introduction of the
intelligent womanhood of these parties.
	But let this great act of justice be done
by the Republicans or let it be done by the
Democrats, the other party opposing, and
the party that does the act of justice will
deserve to receive and will receive an im-
mense accession of strength through its
action. Some of you are Republicans,
some of you are Democrats, but which
ever you be, you owe it to your party (be-
cause you believe that the success of your
party is the success of good government)
to see that you get enough men of your
party to vote for it to prevent its having
any political significance against you. It is
suicidal for either party to oppose woman suf-
rage for fear it may injure them. An act of
justice never will. The shortsightedness of
opponents seems to me amazing. Politicans
go round soliciting votes, even buying
votes in some cases, and using every in-
fluence. And here are 500,000 votes in
Massachusetts today, which are going to be
brought into the government. It is for

[Column 2]
you to decide whether your party shall
have its full proportion of them, or not.
But whether you are a Republican or a
Democrat, you are an honest man, and you
want to do justice. And when you give us
this act, give it in a straightforward way, as
an act of Legislature.
H. B. Blackwell.


RELIEF SOCIETY SECRETARIES.

	THE secretaries of the several branches
of the Relief Societies of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion are urgently requested to
send in their reports before the 20th of the
present month. Address—WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT office.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec.


MRS. ANNA AUSTIN was recently elected
Mayor of Pleasanton, Kan.
	THE full enfranchisement of women in
New Zealand has stimulated the friends of
woman suffrage throughout Australia. A
very demonstrative meeting was recently
held at Sidney. It appears that the chair-
manship of Sir Henry Parkes did not pre-
vent the rowdy element from interrupting
some of the men speakers to whom they
were politically opposed. The women ora-
tors, Mrs. Wolstenholme, Mrs. Lawson and
Mrs. Summerfield appear to have had no
trouble and their splendid speeches were
complimented by Sir Henry, who said that
he had never in parliamentary debate
heard three speeches on one side to equal
theirs.


DUNFORD'S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday, January 29th and continuing for
30 days. 
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30, and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R.K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
ons covered while you wait.  Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
		Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 22.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1894.	NO. 13.


CONTENTS:
	Personal Impressions of Art at the Columbian
Exposition—Edahoo. Special Honors. U. W.
P. C.—Gladys Woodmansee. Letter from Card-
ston—Nellie Hinman. A Genuine Surprise—
Communicated. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting
—L. D. Alder. A Woman’s Assembly. Wo-
man’s Suffrage Column—Utah W. S. A., S. L. W.
S. A., and Beaver W. S. A. The Reconstruction
of the Government. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL.—Editorial Notes. Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young.
	POETRY.—My Valentine—Alofa. Midnight
Reverie—L. M. Hewlings. Affectionately In-
scribed to my Dear Friend S. T. in N. Y.—Nellie.


MY VALENTINE.

AH, hurry away my valentine
Nor stop 'till you reach the love of mine 
Whose image floats before my eyes
And seems an angel from the skies. 
Yes, go to her and my love proclaim
My love that will ever be the same,
Through the storms that rage and the suns that
	shine
She will be forever the love of mine
Her hair once golden is silvered now, 
And furrows are traced o’er her noble brow;
While on her cheeks that were once so round
The rosy tint is no longer found.
Her form is perhaps a little bent, 
Though ’twas once admired where’er she went;
Her hands are a trifle hardened too,
She says by labor, I fear 'tis true;
And by some who knew her it has been said
She has lost the lightness of her tread; 
Yet naught of her worth has been lost to me,
She is still my love and will ever be.
Her eyes retain the same love-light
As when first I knew them so grandly bright;
Her voice, her touch have the same sweet powers
To soothe and calm life’s troubled hours;
The smile she wears, be it e’er so faint,
Is such as no earthly hand can paint;
And her loving heart is as warm and true
As the mind of mortal ever knew.
Be there aught of worth she can do for me,
She will never question how hard it be;
Nor will ever think her toil unpaid,
Nor count the sacrifices made,
If only my love in return I give—
If only a worthy life I live.
She has gone to the very gates of Death
Through her love for me, and with gasping breath
Has returned to look upon me and smile,
As though pain had been pleasure all the while.
Ah, why should not my love endure?
Why confidence be insecure,
Reposed in one so true and good,
In the noblest sphere of womanhood?
To my mother dear is my valentine,
For my mother dear is this love of mine.
	ALOFA.
Samoa, Jan. 23rd, 1894.


"A BOARD of five ladies has been ap-
pointed by the directors of the Cotton
States International Exposition at Atlanta,
Ga., and the ladies have begun the pre-
liminary work for the Woman's Building
and exhibit."


[Column 1]
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS OF ART
AT THE COLUMBIAN
EXPOSITION.

	TRUE art is creation and that which sug-
gests the Creator's work in its perfection has
a nearness to Heaven in its enjoyment.
	It was said by Michael Angelo that "the
true mission of art was to raise the soul
from earth to Heaven." Surely these 
words were exemplified at the World's 
Columbian Exposition of 1893. Never was
fairer picture presented to wondering gaze,
than that of the White City in its complete-
ness.
	I remember as a young girl, having a
very vivid dream; pictured in the Western
sky, above the blossoming orchard of my
childhood's home, was what I concieved to
be the New Jerusalem. The buildings
seemed to be constructed of marble, of that
soft tone of white, called ivory; and each
tower and cornice and pinnacle, were edged
with gold, as though a setting sun, which
seemed to flood the air as with a golden
mist, had touched them with its Midas
finger. The city sat upon the shores of a 
shimmering blue sea, and the streets were
mostly water-ways of "Pure gold, like un-
to clear glass." I recall to mind how on
awakening in the morning I ran eagerly to
the door and shading my eyes with my
hands, gazed out above the blossoms of
peach and apple trees, to the bright blue
sky, seeking in vain for a trace of the
night's beauteous vision. Never could I
forget the glory of those classic columns and
slender, graceful pinnacles, and often have
I wished for the art which could transfer to
canvass a faint idea of its most wondrous
loveliness. One day last Summer from the
upper deck of the steamer "Whaleback"
that beauteous vision burst again upon my
enraptured gaze. There were the white
walls of my templed city; there the shim-
mering sea turned all to blue and gold by
the lingering rays of the "God of Day,"
who lovingly touched each tower and top,
that art had left ungilded: There the broad
streets and water-ways the glorious groups
of statuary—the classic pillars and flowery
tracery of gothic windows—the feathery
palms, the gushing fountains, the fragrance
of rarest blossoms, the city in its beauty and
completeness; and the blue waters girdling
and intersecting it: my dream at last a
glorious reality! And I a favored one, to
wander mid its beauties and wonders. In-
voluntarily I loosened the lace about my 
throat, for my emotions gave me a feeling
of rapture almost to suffocation, flooding
my soul with joy unspeakable. Many
times I saw the White City from other
vantage ground, but never again with those
sensations: From all other points of view,
while it was beautiful, it did not give me
the same exquisite picture, which was a 
memory realized.
	I am leading up to my subject slowly,
even as I traversed with lingering feet the
way, to where already I saw the beautiful
"Martiny" statue of "Fame," crowning 
the central dome of that magnificent

[Column 2]
Palace of Art. The figure is airy, beauti-
ful; and seems almost to take wing: The
drapery, wind-blown closely to the figure,
accentuating its exquisite contours. A 
noble flight of steps flanked by sculptured
lions leads you to the portal, overshadowed
by graceful porticos, supported on
Corinthian columns. As  I entered the
main hall or rotunda, a scene of bewilder-
ing beauty, of graceful and noble art, in
bronze and marble, met my gaze; and
starting tears obscured for a moment the
scene. I seemed unable to regain myself;
I was in an enchanted world: The people
who thronged the hall were as nothing. I 
stood as if alone amid moving mass.
Through door-ways I caught glimpses of
wondrous tints and dreams of color from
almost breathing canvases.
	But almost the first work that caught by
eyes and there they lingered oft and lov-
ingly, was the bronze group of "Dickens
and Little Nell." It was a noble poem in
bronze, easily read by those who are
familiar with the works of the wondrous
writer, who created the characters of
"Nell" and "Florence Dombey," "Little
Joe" and the host of others. Standing at
Dickens knee, Nell looks lovingly up to
the master as though saying again, "God
bless him, God bless us both."
	I think I first admire the beauty and
per[---]t proportions of an object th[-]n the
power exemplified in the mental and
physical training required to bring it to so
perfect a state of excellence; yet I do not
pretend to know its excellence, only the 
artist whose many trials have wrought its
perfectness, can know that. I can only
judge of that excellence by the faithfulness
of its resemblance and the story written in
its lines and contours.
	How can one look upon the marvelous
beauty of the famous "Dore" vase, with-
out a feeling of awe, for the physical and
mental power employed to bring such per-
fection of form and beauty into shape,
where-with to delight your sense of the
beautiful. The bewildering myriad of
flowers and forms, all bearing to the one
object, the decoration and embellishment of
the original classic shape, and the beautiful
thought underlying the whole. Six months
were required to model it in clay, how many
to design it I know not; but surely it is a 
"thing of beauty," and let us hope it will
"be a joy forever." The "Dore" vase is
not, however, in the Art Palace but in the
French Department of the Liberal Arts
Building, where I also found Susse Freres,
"Defence Of The Flag," an intensely ef-
fective group in bronze; soldiers surround-
ing the colors; fourteen figures and one
cannon, and fallen horse, grouped naturally
and artistically with fine effect of power, 
and the heroic purpose, to die rather than
relinquish their flag.
	Thomas Ball's bronze statuette of "Paul
Revere" is one of the gems in the rotunda
of the Art Palace. The artist has caught
the very motion of the horse, and the horse 
seems to have caught the inspiration of the
man upon his back, who glows and radiates


[Column 1]
liberty, from the foot in stirrup to the hand
on rein, and glint of the fearless eye.
	“The Signal of Peace,” a bronze
equestrienne statue, was full of dignity and
such repose and grace, as comes from no
drawing room training. A Sioux warrior
on his pony; the Indian nude save for moc-
casins and the war feathers crowning his
head and falling in a straight line down his
back, the right hand grasping his spear is
held up as the signal of peace, the left holds
the horse hair rope fastened to the lower
jaw of the pony. The piece as a whole
struck me with its dignity and naturalness,
as being a truthful portraiture of a race fast
dying out. The modelling was perfect;
the expression and pose of both rider and
pony excellent.
	It will, hereafter be one of the adorn-
ments of the beautiful “Lincoln Park,” at
Chicago having been presented to the park
commissioners by Judge Lambert Tree—
who acquired the ownership of it during
the “Fair.”
	The bronze collosal statue of “Wahing-
ton,” another of Thomas Ball’s pieces;
Bartlett’s “Ghost Dance,” a plaster study
of nude Indians, strong and fine; a marble
“Lady Godiva,” by Caroline Brooks, was
an exquisite thing. Daniel French’s,
“The Angel of Death and the Sculptor”
tells a great truth, and one could not pass it
easily. “Pereat,” a group of two figures
in marble, very beautiful in pose and exe-
cution, especially in effect of drapery; but
I could not read the story the marble had to
tell. A bronze “Ishmael” as he strings his
bow, which is exceedingly well posed and
very effective: “Michael Angelo,” as the
boy of thirteen, with leather apron over
elaborate fifteenth century costume, mallet
in hand, chiseling a head in marble, the
stamp of genius, even at that age, plainly
seen upon his face. “The Angel of the
Resurrection,” “A Monk Reading,”
“Pompeian Water Girl,” graceful and
artistic; “Love knows no Caste,” a
beautiful drawing-room group and a pretty
tale of love, in marble; “Romeo and
Juliet,” that ever interesting tale of lovers.
This represents the awakening Juliet to
find her lover dead at her side. Dressler’s
“Girl Trying on her Sandal,” this subject
I found in both marble and oil. The
former I liked best, the position was so
natural and the chiselling of hand and foot
and sandal and string, exquisite.
Houdon’s “Voltaire,” representing him as
an old man seated in an armchair, such a
wide awake old man he was too, so sharp
and crafty looking, but dignified withal, a
very striking piece. “Diana” with bow,
beautifully posed. “A Fish Rarely To Be
Met With” was a striking group, represent-
ing a fisherman, and mermaid caught in
his net, curiosity and fear on her face,
astonishmeut on his. “Domestic Industry”
in oak wood, a woman with distaff
beautifully carved, so fine and soft in grain
and color, it looked like carved ivory.
	The “Sage of Concord” tells us “to
listen to the critics when our hearts are
touched by genius. “It was not painted
for them but for you, and such as had eyes
capable of being touched by simplicity and
lofty emotions.” To be sure the critics
ha[-]e their uses, but, knowing too much
they suffer the usual penalty of omniscience
“ennui.”
	 My first impressions were the harmonious
whole, of form and color, and it was actual
work to “get down” to study (pardon the
phrase) of separate schools or pictures.

[Column 2] 
	Of the nearly three thousand paintings
exhibited by the United States alone. where
shall I begin with my impressions. I am
frightened at the magnitude of the subject
How will it be possible to condense it. I
may have the effect that “Grant had on
Hopkins” and make you, who were not at
the Fair, glad you were’nt, and not anxious
to go to the next; for one must grow en-
thusiastic or cynical over what they saw,
and I prefer to be classed with the former,
even though I weary you. To begin, we
Americans ought to be justly proud that we
lead the World in water color painting, aud
we have such exquisite specimens as Abbey’s
“Measure for Measure,” Cortello’s “Gates
of Justice, Cairo,” “In the Harbor,” sun-
light effect, “Fields in Early Spring,”
“Roman Maiden” and the “Sea Witch,” a
collection of over two hundred, in fact, to
take your choice from. When we think of
the masterly stroke that must make a per-
fect picture in water color, we must feel
proud of this collection. In oil, one can
paint over and mark out; in water color,
if one false stroke is made, it must stay.
	It is said and truly I think, that
American art is refined, healthy and genuine,
though we find some canvases that I
question as such; notably “The Flagellants”
by Marr, which one could not easily pass,
yet it created in me a feeling of horror and
repulsion; that fanaticism could ever have
reached the point, where self inflicted tor-
ture could be construed into religion, much
less Christianity; or that the human heart
could conceive the cruelty, of making a
young, lovely and devoted daughter, drink
human blood, to save a dear father’s life,
as pictured by Julian Story in “Mlle. De
Sombruiell” I question whether it is
worth so many feet of canvas and waste of
colors to depict such horrors for the public
gaze. No matter how true the episode, how
faultless the drawing and grouping, nor
rich the coloring: the beauty or truth of
these are lost in the horror and disgust for
the idea portrayed, and I turn with relief
and gaze with delight on such gems as
Blashfield’s “Christmas Bells.”
	There is a power and breeziness about
his work that is most inspiring and refresh-
ing; and he has fairly caught the true
principle of art, which is not to copy or
minutely imitate nature, but to render the
impression and suggest its characteristics.
“Christmas Bells” is such a pure, artistical-
ly refined, picture; it impresses you with its
joyousness. You don’t want to dissect it,
nor think how it is painted; only to gaze
and enjoy its completeness. The work is so
well done you feel quite as though it could
have been no work to paint it; but that the
thought or inspiration was breathed upon
the canvas and it grew as the flowers grow.
There is no “Impressionism” here. The
colors are so beautifully blended in the
drapery and wings of the angels, as to
suggest the faintest rainbow hues, with the
glow of early dawn upon them. Light!
dainty, delicious light! The figures sway-
ing with the bells seem almost to swing out-
side the frame; and the song they sing to
me—is:
		“Ring out the old, ring in the new,
		Ring out the false, ring in the true.”
	The picture is perfect in detail, nothing
about it is slighted; from the startled
doves to the green bronze bells all is in
unison with the scheme of color. It is said
of Blashfield that he may one day take the
place left vacant by Dore, so great is his

[Column 3]
promise. Another of his, “The Angel
With the Flaming Sword” is a wonderful
picture. The artist must have approached
his subject with a truly devout spirit. The
figure seems to stand as though it were
adamant, with a calm majesty, the fixed
purpose, written in every line. A faithful
servant executing the just sentence of the
Master, yet with sorrow that it was neces-
sary; and the mixture of sorrow and
justice on his face, produces a picture of rare
religious feeling. The effect of light
radiating from the flaming sword is wonder-
fully good. The wings have the inter-
mingled peacock hues, which, with the blue
and orange drapery, relieve what would
otherwise be a sombre effect.
	A pretty landscape by Marr called
"Summer Afternoon" is a fine example of
sunlight flickering through the leaves of
trees.
	“The Celestial Choir,” another of those
angelic pictures I delight in, by J. H. Witt.
Five angels flying toward you in a sky of
semi-transparent blue, the foremost one
with widespread arms and wings which
catch the light, seem to be singing that
hymn “Glory to God in the Highest,” the
other angels following with lutes and
golden trumpets. The color tone, that 
white light that gives the effect of airy
lightness. The innocent joy on the faces
seems to pervade the picture. I could but 
wonder how the artist caught the perfect
poise of the flying figures, they were so
exquisitely graceful.
	One more and I must hasten on to other
departments. Moran’s “Grand Canyon of
the Yellowstone.” This artist gives us
the grand scenery of our own country in so
graphic and beautiful a light, as to carry us
to the spot. You feel that it is nature; and
in his portrayal of height and depth, he
gives you almost the sense of awe you feel
in the presence of nature itself.
	In the Austrian department, I found an
exquisite little statuette “Old Vienna
Waltz.” The poise of the couple, just on
the very point of turning in the dreamy
waltz; the costumes those of 1830, wrought
with such care and skill, not even the pat-
tern of lace ruffle on the lady’s gown
omitted. In height it was not more than
nine inches.
	Otto Jarl’s “Creeping Tiger” was
wonderfully realistic. There were many
noble pictures in the Austrian department
that impressed me, but I only mention one
or two. “The Roman Ruins in
Schoenbrunn,” lent by his Majesty the
Emperor, is magnificent in conception,
perspective and detail; Rudolph Bacher’s
“Mater Dolorosa,” also lent by the
Emperor; This was the picture that touched
my heart most deeply. The Holy Mother
is seated with the crown of thorns lying in
her lap, her finger and thumb pressing the
sharp points, that wounded her baby’s
brow; for always that is the mother’s 
thought, when her loved one is taken; it
may be a man or woman grown; but to the
bereft mother it is always “My baby, my
baby, that I have carried under my heart.”
There are no tears in the eyes of this
“mourning mother,”and she gazes straight
out and far away, with such a look of dumb
agony, so real, so terrible in its intensity,
that my own heart was sore for her sorrow.
I do not recall the coloring, but remember
St. John the Beloved stands on her left,
his hand reached out touching her arm, 
with a look on his face as tho’ he fain
would comfort her, yet knows he cannot;


one of the Mary’s is on her right, her hand
on the Virgin’s shoulder, and she leans
yearningly over her; but it was on the
mourning mother’s face that all my interest
centered. I had no thought as to whether
the coloring or grouping were good, or if
the drawing were faultless, but I knew that
the hand which had given to the world that
divinelv sorrowful countenance, was the
hand of a master, and he was acquainted
with grief.
EDAHOO.
[To be Continued.]


98 			WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 					99


For the Exponent.
	MIDNIGHT REVERIE.

MIDNIGHT has fallen over the plain,
	And again I roam in fancy free,
Heedless of dangers lurking round,
	Of ghastly sights, or of startling sounds,
While invisible, I hear and see.

There are wounded on the battle field,
	And pallid forms that may nevermore
Arouse to the calls of war or peace;
	For stern death hath given swift release,
And all earthly strife with them is o’er,

And over life’s battle-fields I see,
	Weary one's wandering on its way,
Oft tempest-tossed amid unseen foes,
	And still seeking vainly for repose,
While allured to combat’s fiercest fray.

I soar over graves of buried hopes,
	Where ever gloomiest shadows fall,
Where wail of grief, as of ocean’s swell,
	Sends mournful requiem’s thrilling knell,
That’s ever doomed to surround them all.

Aye, gaunt wretchedness, and haggard want,
	Pale forms of misery and of woe,
Laborer’s now unemployed, that roam
	’Till in desperations pathways thrown,
Hither and thither, they drifting go!

In mount and glen, and in depths below,
	Occult and hidden are treasures vast;
Awaiting word from “powers that be,”
	To bring forth-develop, from earth and sea,
Wondrous treasures that all time will last.

Boundless the riches earth holds in store; 
	Yet I see her children crying for bread;
Industry’s halls closed down to the poor,
	Whirl of its wheels heard not as of yore,
Beggary and want now reign instead.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.


AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO MY
DEAR FRIEND S. T. IN N. Y.

'TWAS only a newspaper handed to me, 
From our long-time Eastern home,
Yet I felt such a vague forboding,
That I dreaded its pages to turn,
But my eyes shed tears, my heart found vent,
As I read these words that to me were sent.

Died, in the sixteenth year of her age,
Mary H., the daughter beloved,
Her sweet disposition had won many friends
’Mong the circle in which she had moved,
Who with grief-stricken parents and sisters meet,
To place o’er the dead, floral offerings sweet.

That was all, but my heart knew more than this,
Knew, how a mother bending low
O’er the suffering couch of her dying child,
Must have shed the tears of bitterest woe,
As she saw day by day in the quick’ning breath
That her child was nearing the gates of death.

And methinks I hear the prayer that she prayed, 
As in anguish her soul bowed low,
O! Father if Thou canst, remove this cup,


O! how shall I drink of this woe?
But the answer came from an all-wise God,
“I love thee, I love thee, pass under the rod.”

So Mary our darling passed sweetly away, 
To the beautiful home beyond;
Her spirit so pure could no longer stay,
In its earthly prison-house bound,
So freed by death it sped gladly away,
To soar aloft in eternal day.

O, heaven-born spirit, thy work here is done—
Thy sweet mission on earth is o’er;
Our love could not hold thee, thy spirit pined
For its freedom, on yonder shore;
Thy journey was short, but Father in love
Safely garnered our opening flower above.

O! Mother thy treasure in Heaven is placed,
That thither thy soul may be led;
O! sweet blessed plan the Lord has revealed,
By which we can claim our own dead,
As jewels to brighten the crown that is given,
To those who are meet for the Kingdom of
Heaven.
	NELLIE.


SPECIAL HONORS.

	MRS. FRACKLETON, President of the
National League of Mineral Painters, who
organized the Salt Lake City China Club
some ten years ago is receiving great honors
at the Exposition. She may well be con-
gratulated at the disposition made of her
pieces.
	The “Viking Brotherhood Cup” which
she modelled from native clays goes to Nor- 
way, the property of Captain Anderson of
the Viking Ship. This is a most unique,
and interesting piece and is like those used
by the old Vikings a thousand years ago
It is tall and delicate in form with a mouth
suggesting the beak of a vessel and the
foot pinched at the back into the form of a
rudder. The handle is a coiled snake,
emblem of eternity. About the top is a
band incised in the old Norse ruins with the
names of gods and heroes. Lower runs
the legend,

	“Slaves cannot drink from me,
		If once their lips receive my wine,
	That moment they are free!
		They drink gods bounty,
		And their shackles fall!”

	On the obverse side are the dates of the
old Norse discoveries—893and—1893!
	It was the old custom before commencing
any great undertaking to have a banquet
and pass the cup from lip to lip, like a
sacramental cup then in consecration to
break it.
	The cup was used by Captain Anderson
and his crew at the great Norse banquet
and will return with him a treasured
souvenir of his warm welcome to Norway.
	The great wine bowl which Mrs.
Frackleton made for the Caravel is already
on its way to Spain and will be placed in
the National Military Museum at Madrid in
company with the old Columbian relics.
It is an immense bowl with great bunches
of grapes and garlands of vine and is sup-
ported upon a standard with three feet.
On it is inscribed the names of the three
vessels of the little fleet. The Nina, Pinta
and Santa Maria also the dates 1492 and
1893.
	One piece remains in America and has
been purchased by the Pennsylvania
Museum of fine arts for their magnificent
collection, these pieces are all of the New
Frackleton Salt Glaze which has created


such a furore and has been heartily endorsed
by the “Associated Artists” of New York
City.
	The beautiful Punch bowl known as the
“Tiffany bowl” has been purchased by a
Russian noble for $500.00 and goes to St.
Petersburg, Russia.
	It is delightful to experience a feeling of
reciprocity and we hail the dawn of that
era in art when American women decorate
for the nobility of Europe—after the many
years that Europeans have decorated their
wares for America.


U. W. P. C.			
	
	THE U. W. P. C. met as usual on the
last evening of the month at the residence
of Dr. E. R. Shipp. In the absence of the
President and the Vice President Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder was chosen chairman pro
tem. Prayer by Caroline C. R. Wells,
minutes of previous meeting read, and roll
call responded to, with sentiments from
Meredith, Longfellow, Shakespeare, Arnold
and others.
	The names of Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Harriet Y. Badger and Della Y. Harrison
were presented and they were admitted to
membership. The evening program con-
sisted of the following:
	An original New Year’s Poem, entitled
“A Myth of Father Time,” by Mrs.
Dickinson. “Maud Muller” recited by
Nellie C. Taylor. Mrs. E. B. Wells gave
an interesting and graphic description of
her visit to the Poet Whittier’s old home at
Araesbury, also his more modern residence
at Oak Knoll. Told of his kindly reception
of her and the interesting conversation of 
nearly a half day, his views or opinions with
regard to the marriage question—etc. Mrs.
Wells then read the poem “Revel [---]
on which the poet was engaged at the time
of her visit, and which he read to her from
the proof-sheet. 
	Mrs. Margaret A. Caine being called
upon, spoke a few words regarding what
had been said by Mrs. Palmer at the
World’s Fair, the good work which had
been accomplished by Woman’s Press
Clubs in reforming press matter generally.
	Mrs. Harrison requested an explanation
of the object of the club, and was answered
with the desired information by Mrs. E. B.
Wells who stated that we expect to join the
International Federation of Clubs. She
spoke of the advantage of belonging to the
Press Club, over those of belonging to
Literary Clubs, and related some amusing
incidents which occurred during the con-
vention of the Press Women at Washing-
ton in 1891.
	Mrs. Bennion, one of the Vice Presidents
at large, gave an interesting account of
how as a “Stow away,” she had enjoyed a
grand reception of the Press Club at the
World’s Fair, given to all the clubs of the
United States. The great treat it had been
even though but an on looker.
	Miss Gladys Woodmansee favored the
club with a vocal selection, “The Captive
Knight,” and benediction, was pronounced.
	The program for the February meeting
as follows: “The Benefit to be derived
from Woman’s Clubs” Mrs. L. S. Dickinson
The Sixth Sense Mrs. Phebe C. Young.
Music, Mrs. D. Y. Harrison. An article by
Ella W. Hyde. To write up her evening 
with the Press Club. Mrs. A. E. Bennion.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	March 1, 1894.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE bills before the Legislature relating to
women on Boards of Education, Reform
Institutions and Insane asylums passed the
House of Representatives, but was killed in
the Council. No reasons given to the pub-
lic though we have been informed, there
was considerable discussion as to its
constitutionality on account of the word
male in the statutes.
	THE Silk Bill asking for a bounty on
cocoons to encourage sericulture in the Ter-
ritory has passed both houses, this is 
specifically a woman’s measure, and is for
the benefit and fostering of an industry
which is admirably adapted to the capacity
of women and children, a labor which may
be remunerative to the producer in her
own home; and successfully manipulated
in the reeling and manufacturing might be
remunerative to the Territory.
	THE debate on Woman Suffrage in the
Salt Lake Theatre on the evening of Feb.
18th, between Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson and
Dr. Ellen C. Gage drew a crowded house.
Dr. Ferguson who took the affirmative of
the question acquitted herself most
creditably, her discourse being logical and
clear, her language excellent and her man-
ner dignified. Dr. Gage who had the
negative, took up the domestic and senti-
mental side of the question arguing in favor
of protection for women, and brought for-
ward all the pretty and telling pictures of
woman’s femininity, and yet withal we are
told she only made the position of her op-
ponent stronger instead of weakening it.
	THROUGH a suggestion in a letter from
the Beaver W. S. A. we have decided how
to get hold of the ideas of the women of
the W. S. A. throughout the Territory in
regard to a badge for the Utah W. S. A.
It is a subject we had given some thought
previous to receiving this letter, and now we
would ask officially all the Counties to send
in designs, one from each, and then at the
Convention in April when delegates from
different parts are present, a decision upon the
matter may be satisfactorily reached. Our
correspondent says. “It should not be too
dear, lest some poor women could not ob-
tain one, but should be in material, finish
and design of Utah production.” We
would suggest in addition to her suggestion
that silver and silk are both home products.
Let us hear from the woman suffragists on
this subject.

[Column 2]
	ON Tuesday Feb. 27th, a party of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth L. Hyde met
by invitation at the residence of Sister
Susannah Barrows in this City, the oc-
casion being to celebrate the 83rd anniversary
of Sister Hyde’s birthday; her birthday was
the 26th, but as some of her dear friends
were in the Temple on that day, she
postponed the party, that she might have
their company. President Joseph E.
Taylor and wife, Dr. Elvira S. Barney
Sister Jane Harrington (of American Fork)
Sisters Lydia Ann Wells, Lizzie Spencer,
Sarah Young, Bro. and Sister Hennefer and
several others were present and offered con-
gratulations and good wishes. Several
speeches were made all expressing a friendly
feeling for the aged sister, who though
more than fourscore is still in excellent con-
dition of body and mind. Sister Hyde has
had rather an eventful life which we hope
some day to publish a short sketch of; she
crossed the plains in the handcart company
and like Sister Woodmansee, the poetess, is
rather proud of it, as well she may be.
	THERE was a unique social gathering of
friends and relatives of President Wilford
Woodruff and his wife Sister Emma Wood-
ruff in the Salt Lake Temple on Monday,
February 26th, in honor of the 87th an-
niversary of the birth of the veteran
President, who today, March 1st, has
reached the 87th, year of his age, and on
the same day Sister Woodruff her 56th,
year. The occasion was a very happy one
for many reasons and the exercises consist-
ing of short speeches, music, poems and
the like were exceedingly interesting,
reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph Smith
were a conspicuous feature. The entire af-
fair including the bountiful feast was a per-
fect success, and the sincere and fervent
congratulations tendered the beloved
President and his amiable wife in the recep-
tion at the close of the exercises, were
cordially and gracefully acknowledged in
the spirit love and blessing felt and ap-
preciated by all who were present. No
man in Israel we believe has been and is
more truly loved and esteemed by the
Latter-day Saints since the days of the
Prophet Joseph than the veteran Apostle,
seer and revelator, President Wilford
Woodruff. Further particulars of the party
will be given hereafter.


[Column 1]
MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
WEDNESDAY January 31st was the an-
niversary of the birthday of Sister Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief Society,
a mother in Israel and one of the most dis-
tinguished women of the age. Sister
Young whose maiden name was Hunting-
ton was born in Watertown, Jefferson Co.,
State of New York Jan. 31st, 1821, and is
therefore seventy three years old. She has
been connected with the Church since she 
was a very young girl and has participated
in the most notable events. Her life has
been full of thrilling incidents from the 
time when she went with her father and 
mother to Missouri. 
	On the day mentioned above a work was
performed for about two hundred of her 
dead relatives in the Logan and Salt Lake
Temples, which was more gratifying to 
Sister Young than any rich or costly present
that could have been given her for her use
or adornment.
	At 3 p. m. her daughters Mrs. Maria Y. 

[Column 2]
Dougall and Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie gave
her a party at the residence of Mrs.
Dougall on West Temple, where about 
seventy-five of her dear friends gathered by
invitation in honor of this celebrated wo-
man’s birthday. The large and elegant
parlors were bright and attractively decor-
ated for the occasion, and several bouquets
and vases of flowers were sent in by near
relatives and intimate friends which added
much to the pleasure of the guests. Other
suitable presents were given among them 
one or two books. There were some fine
musical selections but the time was mostly 
given to social enjoyment conversation and friendly greeting. 
	Refreshments were handsomely served 
and of the most delicious quality, and the 
guests did full justice to the feast which
had been so lovingly prepared. Among 
the distinguished people who were present
were President Lorenzo Snow, and wife
Sisters Emma Woodruff, Sarah Jane Can-
non and Sarah M. Kimball and B. W. 
Smith, Patriarch Joseph Horne and wife,
Hon. W. W. Riter and wife, Hon. James
Sharp and wife, Hon. Hugh Dougall and
wife, Sisters Emily D. P. Young, Priscilla
M. Staines and many other brethren and
sisters.
	The party was very enjoyable and was
another testimonial of the high esteem in 
which Sister Young is held by the people 
among whom her lot has been cast these
many years. The following letter is from
Canada and shows how the sisters there
celebrated the memorable anniversary day.

CARDSTON, January 31st, 1894.
	The Y. L.M.I.A. met as usual at the resi-
dence of President Zina Y. Card's, in honor of 
our much loved and highly esteemed sister
Zina D. H. Young. Opened by singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” prayer by Sister
Katie Knowlton. Continued by singing
"'Til the Resurrection Day.” President
Zina Y. Card then stated that this was her
mother’s birthday, and wished the sisters
to celebrate it by rejoicing in a testimony 
meeting; she knew the spirit her mother
had in the Temple would be in our midst.
Sister Hannah Anderson, said she was
pleased to meet with the Y. L. and she 
loved to speak of Aunt Zina Young. For 
she was a good noble woman, and had done
more good in the kingdom of God, than 
any of us can do.
	Annie Archibald and Minnie Smith each
bore a faithful testimony to the truthfulness
of this great work. Each felt that they 
had been highly edified since they had com-
menced to attend the Y. L. M. I. A. Min-
nie May and Lucinda Woolf felt pleased
to embrace the opportunity of bearing their
testimony. Felt we were blessed in having
Aunt Zina Young coming to visit us once
in a while; and would be glad if she 
could come again and be with us all the
time and mingle her sweet voice with the
rest of us; asked God to bless her and all
the sisters. Sister Katie Knowlton said
she was thankful to be able to attend her
Young Ladies meeting and bear her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the gospel. 
Asked God to bless Sister Young that she
might live long upon the earth to continue
her good works. 
	Counselor Elnora Wight spoke of the bless-
ing that Aunt Zina had given her long ago, 
said it had been a great comfort to her, and 
that she always felt a tender feeling for her, 
thought her face was always full of sweet-


ness. Asked God to prolong her days that
she might be able to come and see us again
here in Canada.
	Elizabeth Rollin, Effie Stoddard, Martha
Brown, Nellie Lieshman, Rhoda Hinman,
Lola Stoddard, Dora Hinman, Mary Ann
Parrott and Martha Baker each said they
were thankful of having the privilege of
bearing their testimony. Asked God to
bless our noble sister. Each wished her
“Many Happy Returns.’’ Knew she was a
noble good woman, and deserved much
praise.
	President Zina Card then gave a brief,
sketch of her mother’s life; said she knew
the spirit of the Lord would be with her,
and she knew that she would know we
were speaking of her goodness. Asked the
Lord to prolong her days. Said it was a
great comfort to her to know and to hear
the sisters bear their testimony in regard to
her coming to visit us again; she wanted to
spend all the time she could with her dear
mother. Closing prayer by President Zina
Card.
	P. S.—Dear Aunt Zina: I could not be
present at the time of this meeting on ac-
count of sickness. But I feel to add my
blessing with the rest of my dear sisters.
May God the giver of all we enjoy bless you
and prolong your days.
	May peace be your happy lot, dear sister.
That you may never want, but always have
plenty. Ma sends love; so also does Sarah.
All are enjoying pretty good health.
	Yours Lovingly,
		Nellie Hinman, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GENUINE SURPRISE.

	One of the most pleasant evenings of the
season was spent at the residence of Apostle
Franklin D. Richards January 21st, 1894,
it being the 71st Anniversary of the birth
of the Apostle’s beloved wife and our
esteemed friend, President Jane S. Richards.
At 7:30 p. m. their spacious rooms were
crowded with smiling faces, each one being
anxious to extend congratulations and heart-
felt wishes for many happy returns of the
day. Among the happy throng laden with
choice sentiments of pleasant greetings were
noticed President L. W. Shurtliff and wife,
Counselor N. C. Flygare, Bishop Robert
McQuarrie and wife, Bishop Stratford,
Bishop Wallace, Hon. D. H. Peery and
wife, Judge Farr and wife, Lawyer Rolapp
and wife Prof. Moench and wife, Elder E.
H. Nye and wife, Sisters Cannon, Herrick,
Woodmansee, Littlefield, Critchlow, James,
Canfield, and a host of others too numerous
to mention, besides a number of relatives,
including her only sister Mrs. Sarah S.
Richards, and niece Mrs. Lovisa Roundy.
	The amiable lady was taken by storm;
shaken and embraced without consent. No
mercy was shown, every one seeming to
think they had a perfect right to a birthday
kiss and a shake of the dear hand, as they
whispered a sentiment suitable for the oc-
casion.
	This time at least Sister Richards was
truly surprised and disconcerted, though
she soon regained her composure and pro-
ceeded in her usual courteous manner to
welcome the invaders, and make every one
feel at ease, a characteristic of hers to
which she is admirably adapted.
	Bishop McQuarrie then took charge of
the proceedings, and the company sang,
“Now let us rejoice,” etc. Prayer was

[column 2]
offered by Elder L. F. Moench.  Sister
Stevens and others sang, ‘‘I know that my
Redeemer lives. ”
	Bishop McQuarrie said he truly ap-
preciated Sister Richards in the Ward over
which he presided: had never known any
one who possessed so much energy and
determination, with so much genius in
searching out the poor and distressed, and
so much skill and ability in supplying their
wants as Sister Richards had exhibited in
her labor of love in the ward; and now, he
was happy to state, her refining influence
was felt throughout the city, county, Ter-
ritory and beyond its borders.  His good
wishes and prayers were many, and beauti-
fully expressed.
	President L. W. Shurtliff said he had al-
ways admired Sister Richard's tact in bat-
tling with difficulties, nobly surmounting
them, and overcoming evil with good, had
not language to express his deep regard for
her, endorsed all that had been said, and
prayed for her to live and do good as long
as she desired to do so.
	Hon. D. H. Perry said Sister Richards
had shown more love and charity in her
labors than any one he had ever known.
Those who knew her best loved her most;
the zeal with which she had labored was 
worthy of praise  Her exemplary family
were filling, honorably, responsible possi-
tions which was due to her. instruction
and are a credit to her.
	Sisters Emily Shurtliff and R. E. Monch
also expressed their high regard and due
appreciation for Sister Richards, gave her
great credit for her untiring efforts in
charitable purposes, and prayed that she
might have health and strength to continue
to her heart’s satisfaction.
	Brother and Sister Richards each ex-
pressed their gratitude to their friends for
their kindly wishes extended, and their
presence a token of regard which was truly
appreciated,—after which Bishop McQuarrie
announced a change in the program, which
proved to be a delicious repast prepared by
the sons and daughters of the Apostle and
his noble lady. It was a pleasing feature
of the occasion to witness the tender regard
shown by the sons and daughters for their
parents. Hon. F. S. Richards and wife,
Josephine Richards West and Mrs. L. M.
Richards each deserve praise for the excel-
lent refreshments which they served with
becoming grace and courtesy which betoken-
ed the culture of a model home.
	After refreshments were served Apostle
Richards spoke very interestingly of their
early experience in Ogden. Through long
acquaintance and association with the good
people of Weber County the ties of friend-
ship had grown stronger, and he said,
“Knowing you more we will serve you
better.” He also stated that the same
high regard expressed for Sister Richards
in a public capacity he had always enter-
tained for her in the social relation at home.
During fifty one years of married life they
had passed through many trials and priva-
tions which Sister Richards had borne with
patience and fortitude. She had ever been
very unselfish, seeking the comfort and
happiness of others rather than her own.
They had not celebrated their silver and
golden weddings, but thanked God for their
union, and loved each other better as the
veil grew thinner between them and the
Eternal worlds.
	Sister Richards made a few appropriate
remarks, and the closing prayer was offered
by Bishop Stratford.

[column 3]
	After pleasant adieux the crowd dispersed
well satisfied with the evening’s enjoy-
ment. 

	A TRIBUTE TO JANE S. RICHARDS
			BY R. E. MOENCH.

We’ve called here this evening dear Sister and
		Friend,
	A few words of love to express,
Our congratulations to you to extend,
	And to wish you continued success.

You’ve truly been blessed by our Father and God
	in the work so nobly you’ve done, 
Through trials so patient, in counsel so wise,
	To the dear age of Seventy-one.

We are journeying on toward the end of life’s
		race,
	And doing the best that we know
Why not the approval and smiles of our friends
	To cheer us along as we go?

Too often the tokens of love are lain by
	Like the miser who hoards up his gold,
’Till the sensitive spirit has left its abode,
	And the loving heart’s lifeless and cold.

The vaults are then opened and treasures brought
		forth,
	Such honors; what tongne could relate?
The noble deeds done, and bright laurels won
	Are heralded then, but too late—

Too late, when life’s hurdens are once cast aside,
	When the wearisome journey is o’er,
The love and affection for which the heart sighed
	Are needed to cheer them no more.

Let us rally round our dear friends while they live
	With love smooth the furrows of care;
Let charity’s mantle mistakes cover o’er,
	And help them their burdens to bear.

Each heart has its sorrow, each bosom its woe,
	Each Pilgrim must bear his own cross,
Our own cares seem lighter when others we aid,
	in giving, we suffer no loss.

You’ve followed this rule at home and abroad,
	And shown what a woman can do 
In wisely extending the gifts of His love, 
	Which God has bestowed upon you.
							COMMUNICATED.

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Meeting, held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, Jan. 13th
1884. Prest. M. I. Horne presiding. Song
“Come let us anew.” Prayer by Sister E.
Brown. Continued by singing, “All Hail 
the new born year.’’ Minutes of the last
neeting read and approved. Prest. M. I.
Horne said I am happy to meet with you in
this another year, I am so glad to see so
many sisters here today, and I trust that
you will all bear testimony.
	The minutes of the 5th Ward Primary
Annual Meeting were read by the Secre-
tary, a little girl. 
	Sisters Aird and Leaker, each bore a
strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and felt to acknowledge the hand of God
in all things. Sisters sang, “We thank
thee O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Julia Pack, spoke of trials and
tribulations she had passed through, said
she had seen the sick healed by the laying
on of hands, had seen many raised from
seeming death, and had been raised herself.
	Sister Bidgood, spoke of learning the
things of God, through tribulations. Told
of many trials borne in the past. Desired
to live to do good, invoked God’s blessing
on all the sisters.
	Coun. E. Webb said, let us talk comfort-
ing words to each other, and be valiant
soldiers in the cause of our God. Let us
have faith and bear cheerfully what we are
called upon to endure. Let us thank the
Lord for our experiences, for they are les-


[Column 1]
sons unto us. Let me exhort you to be
faithful. Think of the privilege you have
to work in the temple, to liberate those who
are waiting for redemption. Said many
other good things.
	A sister in the congregation, bore her
testimony, told of a child of hers that had
been dead five minutes, and was then re-
stored to life by the ordinances of the Gos-
pel, made other remarks.
	Sisters Larsen and Jean Peterson, each
spoke, felt to glorify God, and desired to
help build up the kingdom.
	Sister M. Wilcox, felt to bear her testi-
mony, and spoke at some length on Temple
work.
	Coun. E. Stevenson, bore testimony to
the efficacy of fasting and prayer, said we
draw nearer to Him in this way, and He
turns none away empty who come to Him
in this way. Gave other good instructions.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert said, I feel
thankful and full of gratitude to God for
the many blessings he has bestowed on me.
I feel to devote my life and my all to His
cause. I pray for the Holy Spirit in us all
that we may be saved with the just.
	Sister Palmer bore her testimony, also
Sister Diana Reid, and Sister Smailey,
Sister Paul told of blessings promised her, 
and the labor she had performed as a re-
sult of their fulfillment.
	Prest. M. I. Horne, I am glad of the testi-
monies that have been borne. Our
priviliges are great for we can meet to-
gether, that our souls may be fed. I am
so thankful that the Church property has
been restored, I feel that God is working
in His own way, and His own time. The
key was turned to favor Zion, when the
Temple was dedicated. He requires us to
be humble and faithful, and prepare for
His second coming. I feel with my sisters
that we shall have a prosperous and Happy
New Year.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Sang “The time is far spent.” Bene-
diction by Sister J. C. Howe.
	L. D. Alder, Sec.

A WOMAN’S ASSEMBLY
      
	ON February 3rd at 3 p. m. there was a
large and influential gathering of ladies and
a few gentlemen in the 14th Ward Hall in
this City: the stand and platform were ap-
propriately decorated and several dis-
tinguished representative women beside the
speakers occupied the seats on the platform.
	The Secretary having read the call for the
meeting,—President Emmeline B. Wells
said she simply wished to state that the
meeting had been called to create an interest
and awaken a sentiment upon the subject
of Woman Suffrage. There was no par-
ticular business to be transacted, but some
speeches would be made upon the question.
She then called upon the audience to sing
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s “Battle Hymn of
the Republic.” This finished, Dr. Barney
offered prayer, and the song “New
America” was then sung.
	The President then introduced Mrs Zina
D. H. Young to address the audience.
She said: “Ladies and gentlemen—
gentlemen and ladies—we have met to-
gether today upon a grand occasion, at
least to my heart. The words of our first
song referred to ‘Our Country.’ That
will be my text if I take one—‘Our
Country.’ Ladies: If it needed heroes for
our countrymen, where were the heroines?

[Column 2]
We raised the heroes, we imbued their
souls with the love of freedom and caused
them to sustain a George Washington and
his friends. I have often heard my grand-
father tell of the scenes of the revolutionary
war my father of that of 1812, when the
song of the glad tidings of the freedom of
our country was sung. There is a grander
beyond, grander than words can express.
And when we see our country almost
wrecked sometimes by policy and party
that almost drowns principle, we are led to
ask where are the heroines of the last days?
Or in this extended time of our country,
when with glory women may maintain and
retain honorable principles and bestow
them upon their offspring. In view of
this and kindred questions we have met to-
gether today to cultivate and try to
stimulate these glorious principles, and to
let the nation know that we appreciate our
country’s inheritance, and that the mothers
have something to do in the matter. Let us
not lose sight of it. These are the
principles of my heart and always have
been; and let it be remembered that,
though many of us have passed along in
time to see the sear and yellow leaf, “they
that plant pears plant for their heirs,”
this is what we are doing, ladies. The
major portion of us have passed the
meridian; but the glory of our hearts is to
sustain principles that are correct, we are
battling for them today. Let us not desert
our posts. As Joseph Smith used to ob-
serve, “stand to the rack, hay or no hay.”
I was glad to meet with our sisters in the
Grand Congress of the world. There we
were sisters, we are the same here today.
I could almost say like one of old, “Let thy
servant depart in peace, for I see thy glory.”
These are the feelings of our souls. May
we yet attain to our rights; may it be our
happy lot to obtain our rights is my desire
and prayer."
	The President next introduced Hon.
John E. Booth as one of the most dis-
tinguished gentlemen of the territory, with
a request that he should address the meet-
ing.
	Mr. Booth said: “Mrs. President, women
and men: I scarcely understand why I have
been permitted to be here, and I do not un-
derstand exactly why I should receive such
a flattering introduction. But I presume it
is right when things are offered to us freely
that we take them. I will say this, how-
ever, that I think my introduction here is
probably based more upon my zeal on this
subject than on my ability; because if my
ability were equal to my zeal I feel that
more would be accomplished in this line.
I do not remember when I first commenced
thinking about this matter, but it appears
to me that since thinking about it at
all I have never seen but one side.
It may be that I am prejudiced; I think
about that sometimes; but I will say this,
that I regard women very much as I hear
the report of wines—the older they are the
better they are. I believe I am right in
that, with no disrespect at all to the young
ladies, for all they have to do is to wait and
they will get there. It is within the reach
of all of them. But I realize this: that
the higher the civilization, the true civiliza-
tion mankind attains to, the more respect is
paid to woman. More rights are given her.
No, not rights. They have the rights.
I believe that the true meaning of the
Declaration of Independence, wherein it says
that all men are created equal and endowed
with inalienable rights, life, liberty and the

[Column 3]
pursuit of happiness—that that embraced,
in its practicable application, women. It
should be meant. I regard it that they
have these rights, and will have them,
though they have not had the privilege of
enjoying them. But as we get along in
civilization, coming events cast their
shadows before. We are getting nearer
this desired end, and I am very thankful to
say that Utah has taken a front rank in
this. But with regard to some rights I
am almost inclined to believe that the wo-
men of Utah have passed over the line of
right and been granted some privileges
that have not been granted to others.
Still I have no fault to find with that; be-
cause it would only be right if they got
many more privileges over what they have
been deprived of in generations back. But
in regard to property rights, we find that
the property rights of women in this Ter-
ritory are beyond what they are in other
places. Under the old law woman had
very little property rights. Her personal
property when she was married went to
her husband. While she might keep the
title in her name, all rents went to her
husband, and she lost her legal identity
when she became married. I find that
has passed out of date. In 1870, twenty-
four years this month, as I now remem-
ber, the women of this territory were given
their franchise, and under the same law—
not practically the same law, but soon after
that time, they were given the right to
hold property in their name, independent
in every respect from the control of their
husband. That law provided that in
the case of property acquired by descent, or
gift, or inheritance. That law, however,
did not provide for their purchasing
property, but I think two years later that
law was amended so that they acquire
property, and all the property a woman held
before they were married and after, whether
acquired by purchase, gift of descent,
should be hers absolutely, and without the
control of the husband. The same law
provided that the right of dower in this
territory should be abolished, placing men
and women on an equal footing in regard
to property. That law was enforced for
seventeen years and enjoyed by women to
the very great benefit of all the people of
this territory. Women did not receive the
benefit of it alone, but it was a benefit to
the territory, and I say the women handled
that question with very great credit. Per-
haps they did not understand as much
about it as some men do, although they
have the pleasure of knowing that they
did understand the subject as well as some
men did. And that brings me to this
point: is there any objections to granting
women the right of franchise? It is said
they possess certain disqualifications by
reason of their being women and that there-
fore there are certain rights they should not
enjoy, and that men, by reason of their
being men, should enjoy. I have, how-
ever, discovered that every objection that 
has been raised on that ground applies to
men as well as to women.”
	To be Continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. SOPHIA BRAEUNLICH, business
manager of the Engineering and Mining
Journal of New York, was by a recent 
action of the British Imperial Institute
made one of the twenty life fellows of that
honorable organization. She is the only
woman member in the United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

			TER. W. S. A.

	AN important meeting in the interest of
suffrage was held Feb. 3rd, 1894, in the
14th, Ward Assembly Hall. The territorial
president Mrs. E. B. Wells called the meet-
ing to order and presided. Miss Maude
Pratt and Miss Pearl Russell sang "Battle
Hymn of the Republic,” the audience
joining in the chorus. Prayer was offered
by Mrs. E. S. Barney. The congregation
sang ‘‘New America.”
	Brief and interesting were the speeches 
by Dr. Hasbrouck, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Samuel Richards, and Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark. Able addresses were delivered by
Messrs John E. Booth and Dr. M. Hughes
Cannon in which the speakers showed con-
clusively that equal suffrage should be en-
joyed by both sexes.
	A Recitation by Miss Babcock, songs by
Mrs. Bessie Dean Allison and George D.
Pyper were the artistic features of the oc-
casion. Meeting adjourned subject to the
call of the president.
			NELLIE LITTLE, Rec. Sec.

			S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	The Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened
at the residence of Mrs. Elizabeth A. C.
McCune, Jan. 16th 1894, President Eliza-
beth McFarlane in the chair.
	Opened by singing, ‘‘Come let us anew”
prayer by Mary E. Bassett. Minutes of
the last meeting read, corrected and ap-
proved. Names of new members taken.
The program for the meeting was carried
out by several of the ladies giving the
necessary qualifications to enable foreigners
to become voters in the United States,
which disclosed the fact that in about six-
teen of the states, aliens could vote with-
out having declared their intention of be-
coming citizens, by conforming to the laws
of either of those states which do not re-
quire that voters should be naturalized.
	Several speeches were made by ladies
who did not enjoy taxation, without
representation, and the Universal Sentiment
seemed to be that if they ever did get the
franchise again (which we have full faith
that we will do) they would not be so
particular about voting for parties, as they
would for men: The ladies then listened
with much attention, to the matchless pro-
duction, “Oh! my Father” by that great
exponent of woman’s rights Eliza R. Snow,
beautifully rendered by Bro. Thomas
Ashworth with piano accompaniment.
For an encore Bro. Ashworth gave two
other songs after which a vote of thanks
were given him, and the meeting stood ad-
journed until the third Tuesday in Feb., at
the same time and place, which concluded
one of the most delightful meetings the
association has ever had. Mrs. McCune
has kindly thrown open her beautiful
parlors, with ample room for all, in which
we hope the ladies will feel a renewed
interest in meeting together and contribut-
ing to make the association a grand success.
		C. C. R. WELLS, Sec. pro tem.

		BEAVER CO. W. S. A.

Editor Exponent:
	THE Beaver County Woman’s Suffrage 
Association held their annual for the 
election of officers Friday, Feb. 16, 1894.

[Column 2]
	The house was beautifully decorated our 
suffrage flag with its two golden stars oc-
cupying a conspicuous place on the walls.
	Although a severe snowstorm was raging,
the Relief Society Hall was well filled,
about one hundred ladies and gentlemen
being present.
	The delegates from the lower settlements
responded to the call, those from Minersville
bravely riding eighteen miles through the
storm to be present. An excellent
programme was carried out, consisting of
speeches, readings from the History of Wo-
man’s suffrage, an essay, songs, toasts and
sentiments. The string band kindly lent
their services and the sweet strains of music
greatly added to our enjoyment. Refresh-
ments were served, and all felt we had en-
joyed a treat besides giving fresh impetus to
the cause in this county. A number of our
leading men were present all of whom ex-
pressed themselves in favor of woman's
suffrage. The following resolutions were
adopted unanimously. Resolved, “That
all citizens should enjoy the right of suffrage
regardless of sex.
	Resolved:—That we extend our hearty
congratulations to the women of Colorado
and Wyoming on having entered, at last in-
to their rightful heritage.
	Resolved:—That we tender to the women
of New York and Kansas our heartfelt
sympathy in the crisis pending in those
states.
	Resolved:—That the action of the
Supreme Court of Michigan in depriving
the women of that state of municipal suf-
frage is a step backward, and is contrary to
the spirit of the Constitution and the age in
which we live and as such receives our un-
qualified disapproval.
	The Officers elected for the ensuing year
are:—Prest. M. A. White; first Vice. Prest.
Mary Fernley; second Vice Prest., Hettie
Gentry; third Vice Prest., Harriet S.
Farnsworth; fourth Vice Prest. Alice
Herbert. Rec. Sec. and treasurer Clara F.
Murdock; Cor. Sec. Caddie F. Murdock.
Executive Board, Louisa Jones, Chairman.
S. C. Maeser, W. G. Bickley, Jane Bickley,
M. E. Murdock. For Minersville, Mrs.
Ada Rollins Vice Prest. Adamsville, Mrs.
Margaret Pierce Vice President. Green-
ville, Mrs. Mary Davis, Vice Prest.
	THE EXPONENT is a welcome visitor.
It is doing a good work in the Suffrage
cause.				LOUISSA JONES.


THE RECONSTRUCTION OF THE
			GOVERNMENT.

			[Concluded.]
	During the unfortunate controversy be-
tween the President and Congress, the
work of reorganization had been going
steadily on. Seven of the disorganized
states, North and South Carolina, Georgia,
Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas
had ratified the amendment, complied with
the requirement of Congress and taken
their places as revived States of the Union.
But the reorganization was not perfected un-
til 1872, when on the 23rd of May the
three remaining states took their places,
filling every seat in Congress for the first
time since the disruption in 1861.
	Before the adjournment of Congress in
1868, the Senate ratified an important treaty
with China, establishing mutual and equal
privileges of trade, travel, education and
religion between the United States and

[COLUMN 2]
China, a concession never before made by
the Chinese to any nation.
	President Johnson’s administration ended
on the 4th of March, 1869, and Ulysses S.
Grant was inaugurated the eighteenth
president of the United States. Shortly
after that event, Mr. Julian of Indiana,
proposed an important amendment to the
national Constitution, in the following form:
“The right of citizens of the United States
shall be based on citizenship, and shall be
regulated by Congress; and all citizens of
the United States, whether native or
naturalized, shall enjoy this right equally,
without any distinction or discrimination
whatever founded on sex.”
	A very important event occurred during
the year 1869, namely, the uniting of the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans by railroad
connection, the ceremony of laying the last
tie and driving the last spike occuring on
the 10th of May, 1869, near the head of the
Great Salt Lake.
	In 1871, seven thousand six hundred and
seventy miles of railroad was laid and put in
successful operation in the United States.
In this year also the great Chicago fire oc-
cured, “In the extent of district burned
this fire stands first, property destroyed
second, and in the suffering occasioned
third, in the conflagrations of the world."
	In 1872, a court was held by the Board of
Arbitration appointed by the United States
and Great Britain and composed of leading .
men from both Europe and America, to
consider the claim of the United States
against Great Britain for damages from
British vessels on the coast during the civil
war. It was decided that Great Britain
should pay to the United States
$15,500,000.00. At that time the national
debt had been considerably lessened, the
products of the United States had greatly
increased, and American manufactures were
competing with England in the markets of
the world. The population had gradually
moved westward until Ohio became the
centre.
	In 1872, Grant was re-elected President,
with Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts,
as Vice-President.
	In 1876, the Territory of Colorado was
admitted as a State. As early as 1866
Prof. John L. Campbell of Wabash Col-
lege, proposed an appropriate centennial
celebration, which subject was also discussed
by other leading men, but nothing definite
was accomplished toward that object until
the spring of 1871, when the House of
Representatives passed a bill providing that
an exhibition of American and foreign arts,
products and manufactures should be held
under the auspices of the government in
the city of Philadelphia in 1876. Time
will not admit of our entering into the de-
tails of the financial difficulties incurred,
but one item must be mentioned, and that
is that Congress positively refused twice to
appropriate one cent for the Centennial
Exposition, but states, cities, schools, and
individuals entered into the spirit of the
exhibition, and after the President had ex-
tended a cordial invitation to foreign
nations to participate in an international
exhibition, and some of them contributed
thousands of dollars therefor, Congress also
became enthused with the subject, and voted
the appropriation of $505,000 for the
erection of a building in honor of the
United States, etc., and finally a further ap-
propriation of $1,500,000 was made to
make up the amount required for the success
of the Exposition, which was estimated to


be about $9,000,000. Fairmount Park, one
of the largest and most magnificent in the 
world, was offered to the commission for the
exhibition by the city of Philadelphia, and
on the 10th of May, 1876, the Centennial
Exposition was formally opened.
	The Indian question has occupied much
of the time, attention and means of the
nation since its first settlement by the white
people, brought about in the majority of
cases by their avarice and injustice. In 1864
there was a war with the Cheyennes; in 1873
the Modoc War occurred; in 1876 the
memorable war with the Sioux Indians
took place, when General Custer and nearly
all of his command were slain by Sitting
Bull and his followers, and in 1877 a war
occurred between Nez Perces Indians and
the United States. Of course the latter
army being so much more powerful were
conquerors, and the savages were driven
from their legal property and made more
savage in feelings than before. Trouble be-
gan to arise between employers and employ-
ees a strike of railroad employees commenced
in June, 1877, on the Baltimore and Ohio
railroad and soon spread to most of the roads
in the northern States, interrupting traffic
for several years.
	In 1876 the Presidential election took
place, and both the Republicans and
Democrats claimed the victory, some of the
voting having been done in an irregular and
unsatisfactory manner.  Of course the
decision rested with Congress, and after
long and earnest debating it was agreed to
refer the matter to a joint high commission
composed of five members from the Senate,
five from the House and five from the Su-
preme Court, and not 'till the second of
March, 1877, was the election finally decided
in favor of the Republican candidate,
Rutherford B. Hayes, President, and William
A. Wheeler, Vice President. One of the 
most important events in President Hayes'
administration was the Civil Service Reform
law, one essential feature being that no
government officer should be allowed to take
part in any political campaign.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED Jan. 9th, 1894 at Levan, Juab Co., Esther
Gardner, wife of George Gardner, in her 60th
year, after a lingering illness of counsumption for
many years.
	She leaves a husband, three children, (boy and
two girls,) and hosts of friends to mourn her de-
parture.
	Sister Gardner has worked very faithfully in
different departments of this Church. She took
an active part in the Relief Society, when it was
first organized, and acted as a teacher in the
Sabbath School for over twenty years.
	When the Primary Association was first
organized, she was set apart as president, and
from that time until she died, she has remained in
that position, laboring very diligently for the
benefit of the children, and attending to her
duties with steady application, as long as her
health would permit.
	She had succeeded, by her kind and winning
way, to gain the love and respect of all the
children and died as she had always lived, honest
and faithful to the gospel. The remains were
taken to the meeting House, and the funeral
took place Jan. 12th, and was conducted by
Bishop N. P. Rasmussen; John Ollerton, James
Wilson, J. W. Shepherd and Tunbridge made
very appropriate remarks. The choir was also
in attendance, and a song was sung by the
Primary children. The remains were followed to
the cemetery by her family, relatives and many
friends.
	Dearest Esther sweetly sleeping,
		In the tomb she's laid to rest,
	But her spirit watch is keeping,
		For she dwells among the blest,

[column 2]
	Though her body now is resting,
		Free from weary pain and care,
	She rejoices in bright mansions;
		With the just and righteous there.

	Then cheer up and cease your weeping,
		She has reached that "happy shore,"
	Where no grief and sickness enter
		And there's rest forevermore.

			DINAH OLLERTON,	Counselors.
			ANNIE RASMUSSEN,
Levan Primary Association,
			MOLLIE MANGLESON, Secretary.

	AGAIN, Death with its relentless hand has
visited our society and taken from our midst our
lamented sister, Maria D. Chambers, who for
several years prior to her death, held the position
of first counselor to President Marianna Strat-
ford, in the fourth Ward Relief Society, Ogden.
She died Jan. 2nd, 1894, aged fifty nine years, two
months and fifteen days. It is only two short
months since we laid to rest our second counselor
so that we the more keenly feel this, our second
bereavement.
	Deceased was a native of Manchester, England,
but soon after her marriage, she with her hus- 
band, left their native land, to gather with the
saints of God. They crossed the plains by ox
team and endured all the hardships incident to
such journeyings, arriving in Salt Lake City, Oct.
1853.
	In 1869 they settled in Ogden and have ever
since made this city their home. She joined the
Fourth Ward Relief Society at its organization,
which took place Jan. 17th, 1879, and was at that
time called to be a teacher, a position which she
faithfully filled until May 8th, 1883, when she was
called to the office of second counselor; here
again she labored with diligence until June 27th,
1888, at which time she was chosen first counselor
which position she also honorably and faithfully
filled until our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom called her hence, to a more exalted
place.
	She was a noble woman and greatly endeared
to all who were acquainted with her, but it was
in her own home that her life shone out with all
the glory of true motherhood, and her death has
left an aching void that can never be filled.
	Our society has lost a wise counselor, a firm
advocate and a true friend, yet we know that our
loss is her eternal gain, and we therefore bow in
humble submission to the will of our Heavenly
Father, praying that the comforting influence of
His holy spirit may rest down upon the bereaved
family, and that they may ere long be able to see
the "silver lining" to the cloud that now hangs so 
heavily over them.

			A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
[To the memory of our dear Sister and Counselor
Maria D. Chambers.]

Tenderly fold the weary hands,
	Carefully robe the sainted clay,
Lovingly smooth the silken hair,
	Gently, peacefully lay her away.

Her work is finished—death is passed,
	Her mission on earth is o'er,
Henceforth for her brow is the victor's crown,
	In a home where death is no more.

How nobly, how bravely she labored,
	How well her work is done;
Her life, its duties, seemed all complete
	Ere the setting of life's sun.

How tender she was at the couch of pain,
	How willing her sisters to bless;
The poor felt her liberal hand in theirs;
	Her works were of righteousness.

Her counsels were fraught with wisdom,
	Her teachings were full of love,
Her example will bear fruition
	That will follow her above.

In her death we are all bereaved
	And our tears of sorrow shed,
As we bring our floral offering,
	To place o'er the sainted dead.

Today there is sorrow and mourning,
	For the loss of a mother's love;
But list to the greetings yonder?
	Husband, Wife, reunited above.

Be patient ye sons and daughters,
	Tread the path your parents have trod,
And your circle again shall be complete,
	In the mansions of our God.
			MARIANNA STRATFORD, President.
			NELLIE BEECROFT, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th,
Ward Assembly Rooms in this City on
Friday March 23, meetings commencing as
usual at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Each Society
in the Stake should be represented by ts
President or some other officers that all may
be benefitted. Bishops and brethren in-
terested are cordially invited to be present.
		M. ISABELLA HORNE, President.


REPORTS WANTED IMMEDIATELY.

	THE Relief Society Stake Secretaries in
all the several organized Stakes of Zion,
and in branches of the Society in this and
other countries where there is no Stake
organized should send in a yearly report for
1893 as soon as possible to be compiled for
the coming April Conference, that each
Society may have equal recognition. All
reports to be forwarded to this office, by
order of the President, ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, April
16.
Office: 34 East 5th South,
			Telephone 383. 
DUNFORD'S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Maminoth Store at actual 
FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday January 29th and continuing for
30 days.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
ons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
	No. 41 S, WEST TEMPLE STREET
	Opp, Grant Bros. Stables,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL.  22.  SALT  LAKE CITY,  UTAH,  MARCH 15, 1894. No. I4.

[The following is written at the top of the page]
Manti 
Manti
Rebecca Nauham


CONTENTS:
	Personal Impressions of Art at the Columbian
Exposition—Edahoo. Woman—E. S. A Plea
for More Kindness Among Women—Alta
Witbeck. Relief Society Conforence. Ladies’
Semi-monthly Meeting—Lydia D. Alder. A
Woman’s Assembly. Woman Suffrage Column—
S. L. Co. W. S. A., Bountiful W. S. A., and Wo-
man Suffrage. R. S. & P. A. Reports. The
First Woman Lawyer. In Memoriam.
Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL.—President Woodruff’s Party.
Editorial Notes. 
	POETRY.—Overworked—Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
The Purest Gift—Zina E. Crocheron. God Give
Us Men—Oliver Wendell Holmes.


OVERWORKED.
Up with the birds in the early morning--
	The dewdrop glows like a precious gem;
Beautiful tints in the sky are dawning,
	But she’s never a moment to look at them.
The men are wanting their breakfast early;
	She must not linger, she must not wait;
The words that are sharp, and looks that are
	surly,
Are what the men give when the meals are late.

O glorious colors the clouds are turning!
	If she would but look over hills and trees;
But here are the dishes, and there is the churn-
	ing— 
	Those things always must yield to these;
The world is filled with the wine of beauty,
	If she would but pause and drink it in;
But pleasure, she says, must wait for duty—
	Neglected work is committed sin.

The day grows hot and her hands grow weary;
	Oh, for an hour to cool her head!
Out with the birds and the wind so cheery—
	But she must get dinner, and make the bread.
The busy men in the hayfield working,
	If they saw her sitting with idle hand,
Would think her lazy, and call her shirking,
	And she never could make them understand.

They do not know that the heart within her,
	Hungers for beanty and things sublime;
They only know that they want their dinner,
	Plenty of it, and “just on time.”
And after the sweeping and churning and baking,
	And dinner dishes are all put by,
She sits and sews, though her head is aching,
	’Till time for supper and “chores” draws nigh.

Her boys at school must look like others,
	She says, as she patches their frocks and hose,
For the world is quick to censure mothers,
	For the least neglect of their children’s clothes.
Her husband comes from the field of labor,
	He gives no praise to his weary wife;
She’s done no more than has her neighbor—
	’Tis the lot of all in a country life.

But after the strife and weary tussle,
	When life is done, and she lies at rest,
The nation’s brain and heart and muscle—
	Her sons and daughters—shall call her blest;
And I think the sweetest joy of heaven,
	The rarest bliss of eternal life, 
And the fairest crown of all will be given
	Unto the wayworn farmer’s wife.
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS OF ART
	AT THE COLUMBIAN
	EXPOSITION.
	Concluded.
	Among the pictures in the French de-
partment I found Jean Beraud’s “Descent
From the Cross” a curiosity to me until I
learned it belonged to the “Impressionists”
school, Beraud being one of the masters of
that glaring novelty of Art, “Im-
pressionism.” The pictured Christ is truly
the study of a dead body; glassy eyes and
sunken jaws, horrible in its realism: There
are tiled roofs on the houses of the compara-
tively modern city in the background, and
the men and women about the cross repre-
senting the family and friends of the Savior,
are dressed like common people of the
French class of to day. It reminded me
more of a group of resurrectionists, with
some curious women looking on, than a
picture of the sorrowful group we are wont
to think of as tenderly taking from the
cross the body of our Lord. It is just pos-
sible that the faces of the apostles and wo-
men in this picture are portraits—as in the
picture of “Christ at the Pharisee’s Table,”
by the same artist, exhibited in 1891, and
which it is said all Paris flocked to see,
where the Christ is surrounded by well
known personages of our day, in modern
dress, and that herein lies the true merits of
the “Descent From The Cross.” But it
strikes me that Impressionism is going be-
yond its original motto “Down with con-
vention and idea of first fugitive impres-
sion of things.” My first fugitive im-
pression of the “Descent From the Cross,”
was that it was neither historical, graceful
in grouping, or tender in sentiment, and far
from inspiring a religious feeling. But
here, as a foil to Beraud’s, we see Rosa
Bonheur’s “King of the Forest” and the
“Overthrow,” for they are full of life, and
wild life too. She is always true to life, in
drawing, and catches the lights of nature
most effectively. 
	Bonnat’s portrait of M. Renan I thought
wonderfully clever; yet some of the critics
tell me it was very “flat” and “cut out,”
despite the rotundity of the subject. But
here, as elsewhere, I looked with my own
eyes.
	Paul Matthey’s "First Proof" gave the
effect of reflected light, on the man’s face,
as he studies the proof in his hand, in a
wonderfully fine way.
	“Our Lady of the Angels” by
Bouguereau, one of those lovely Madonnas
with the face of holy calm, which remind-
ed me of Murrillo’s “Immaculate Concep-
tion,” is holding the most beautiful babe in
her arms, who reaches out his little arms to
you. The back ground of blue sky and
rosy clouds, is filled with child angels and
they hover all about her. The dark blue
drapery and pale red of the gown being the
only decided color, the whole effect was
charming to me; simple in its grouping,
and very fresh and lovely. Bouguereau
must delight in painting babies and beauti-
ful women, for his “Wasp’s Nest,” some-

[Column 2]
times called “Invading Cupid’s Realm” is
an exquisite study of both. The fair sweet
maiden just old enough to begin to think of
love, is a blonde brunette, with the
loveliest eyes of violet blue, and a scant
drapery thrown about her, to match them
in color. She has stepped into a veritable
nest of cupids, such lovely, rollicking, rosy,
mischievous cherubs, who swarm about her
in every conceivable position of grace and
beauty. One intrepid little fellow has
crept toward her and has his hand on her
perfect foot; another whispers in her sea-
shell ear, and one more venturesome still,
is about to kiss her red, ripe lips. It is a
perfect study of innocent babyhood and
girlhood, and as fresh and pretty as it is
perfect in drawing and coloring.
	“The Virgin’s Home” by Dubufe, a
pretty modern looking Virgin, sweet and
dainty, coming down the steps toward you.
She is dressed in white and carries a really
natural baby, whose face and head has no
preternaturally wise look, but who gazes at
you wonderingly, just as most babies do at
a crowd. The home is one of those white
square top houses, with the glare of the
white light of the Orient on it, pretty arbor
and olive trees in the back ground.
	Eugene Feyen’s “The Cancale Regatta,”
a scene in Venice, numberless figures very
tiny, yet each figure is distinct, and the face
is painted expressively. The colors, too,
are vivid and the effect of soft balmy air,
cloudless blue sky and brilliant colors of
flags, boats and costumes, makes it, for me,
a very attractive little picture.
	Tissot’s “The Prodigal Son,” a series of
four pictures, were gems of rich warm
tones, exquisitely painted.
	“An Old Inn in Castile” by Vuillefroy,
was one of those quaint bits of old Spanish
architecture pleasant to look upon. Soft
creamy brown tints that rest the eye,
which often tires looking at the wealth of
color.
	Zuber’s “Under The Beeches” was a
beautiful landscape. The effect of sun-
light, air and distance, remarkably true,
and the perspective a triumph of art. The
largest canvases and some of the small
ones in the German departments were
largely devoted to William the Second, and
one, the immense “Apotheosis,” of Wil-
liam the First.
	The American public I fancy have very
little use for such subjects and they were to
me simply lay figures. Lenbach, the par-
excellence portrait painter of Germany,
shows Bismarck, who modestly takes a
back seat, but is a wonderful picture.
His “Pope Leo,” whose kindly pleasing
face causes us to forgive the glare of his
crimson gown is also fine; and the portrait
of “Monsen” by Prof. Knaus, is magnif-
icent, stands out from the canvas like life.
	“In the Cellar” by Edmund Harburger,
who is called “the witty German painter;”
his subject a fat German lounging between
two beer barrels, is not a very poetic one,
nor inspiring, yet the picture is so fine in
tone and color, that we forgive the coarse-
ness in the harmonious whole.
	Kroenberger’s two paintings “An


[Column 1]
Amusing Chronicle” and “A Good Hand”
were little gems,and brought a smile no mat-
ter how tired one  might  be,  “The Good
Hand” especially.   The  old  man holds  a
first rate  hand at  cards and cannot  keep
back the grin of satisfaction.   The  perfect
detail from  the face of the man to the finger
tips is wonderfully well worked out.  “The
Amusing Chronicle" has  caused  the com-
fortable looking  old  priest,  to  forget  the
dainty mouthful he was carrying to his lips,
and while he holds the pamphlet in one hand
he throws back his head  and  laughs right
merrily,   the other hand still  poised half
way  to his mouth.   They are tiny canvases
but so perfect in detail,  that you  see  as  it
were the whole scene of the story,  though
in both, but a part of each is suggested.
	“The Roll Call” by  Lady Butler, said to
be the  most celebrated painting by  a wo-
man,  unless  we  except,  Rose Bonheur’s
“Horse Fair,” we find in  the English  de-
partment,  of course.
   I had hoped to enjoy greatly Sir Frederick
Leighton’s paintings,  and I must say I was
disappointed  in  them.   No  doubt  it  was
lack of culture or knowledge,   I  am free to
admit it,  but  I  failed  to  be  impressed by
either the power,  or drawing,  or  coloring,
in  his “Hercules Wrestling With Death For
The Body  of Alcestes.” His “Perseus”
and “Andromeda” was more  to my taste,
though the former was called “the" paint-
ing in the English department.   His bronze
piece, "The Sluggard" was very fine.   His
“Garden of Hesperides” is  beautiful  in
gorgeous  effect of color,  and of course the
three girls guarding the  golden  apple, are
perfectly drawn,  but  their  drapery is  stiff
and ungraceful.
	‘‘Two Little Home Rulers,” sons of the
Earl   of Aberdeen,   dressed  in  the  Irish
costume   and  seated  in a  wheel  barrow,
which stands in the midst of a potato field:
very bright mischievous little fellows they
look,  and a charming study for portraits.
   Sir  John  Millais “Bubbles,” attracted
me.   Of course we are all familiar  with  it
(more is the  pity)  from  its having  been
reproduced as an advertisement of “Pears
Soap,” but the  sweetness of the  beautiful
blonde child’s expression,  and the perfectly
delightful coloring so  pure  and  fresh, are
charming.    The  bubbles,   too,   look  as
though a breath  would bnrst them. It  is
altogether a lovely picture.
   I was greatly impressed with the beauty
and  naturalness of the modern paintings of
the  Virgin,  especially  charming are  our
“Lady of  The Angels,” “The Virgin’s
Home” "The Virgin’s Thread,” Thayer’s
“The Virgin Enthroned,” and  Gabriel
Max’s	“Madonna	and Child,”	and
“The Annunciation”  by  Pearce.
    Certainly  my  appreciation  of  art and
beanty have been greatly widened by what
I saw   at  the   Great  Fair,  and I did not,
could not,  look at the display in  a captious
spirit.   I was  too  happy to have the priv-
ilege of wandering among the treasures, to
do aught but enjoy,  and skip  those parts I
did not fancy.   Nor was I like  some poor
dyspeptic always looking  down  for  the
debris of lunch  or litter of  a  crowd, but
ever, I hope, on the alert to see the bright
and beautiful about me.
   The French  exhibition  seemed to me to
be strongly  and  largely  voluptuous  and
sensuous.   The English, simple and pure,
or as one writer expresses it, “Wethank the
English  for  having  painted  the  nursery,
where the French  paint  the harem.    The

[Column 2]
American,   wholesome  and  healthy  as a
whole.
   Of course my special interest centered on
the Private and Art Loan collection,  which
was a  rare chance to  see at  home what  I
had small  chance of seeing abroad.   In the
Art Loan Collection I  was  greatly  disap-
pointed not to find some of the Old Masters,
but nevertheless there  were  many  master-
pieces of  the later schools.
	T.Rousseau’s “Near Barbizon” was an
exquisite landscape.
    Corrot,  Millet,  Troyon,  Messonier, and
many  more  were  there,   The  pathos  of
Millet’s style was beautifully expressed in.
“The Man With The Hoe” and “Bringing
Home The Calf.” The  poetry  of  Corrot
in “The Dance of the Nymphs,” “Even-
ing,” “The Path  To  The Village,” 
“Orpheus,” and several others gave  us his
soft,  rich  tones  and  beautiful  misty per-
pectives. Troyon’s poetical  pictures,  of
which “Going Home” was  a  beautiful
example, were there to the number of  four,
all rich in tone and ideally lovely.
	Cazin’s “Elsinore,” the home of Hamlet,
was an exquisite little piece, of  castle walls
and moat with back ground of dark cypress
trees,giving the effect of loneliness. “Mid-
night-Moonlight, Abbeyville,  was another
of  his I greatly admired.
   John Constable’s “Shepherd And Flock,”
a charming  pastoral scene with splendid
perspective.   The church is seen far in the
distance.  And, oh, so many more I feasted
my  eyes upon.
   And now for a few words on the Russian
department, the one  where I   found  what,
to me, were the most interesting pictures of
all,  with the exception perhaps  of some in
the Art Loan  Collection,  but certainly  of
the modern schools, the pictures I liked the
best.   This department I  visited  first  and
here I lingered at  the close of my last day
at  the Fair.   So  often we  see  pictures of
Moses as a pretty little babe in  his basket of
rushes,  but  in Ashnazy’s “Parents of
Moses" we  see his  home;  a most pathetic
picture to me;  to  be sure  the omnipresent
little Moses is here  too, in his  little basket,
where the loving hands of  his heart broken
Mother have placed him, as a last resort  to
save his precious life.   All the Mother love
is in her face and the agony of trusting his
preciousness to the frail basket;  but the de-
termination to try  it rather  than suffer the
more terrible  one  hanging  over his  little
head, of death.   The  Father  sits  looking
on with clenched hands  and lines of agony
in his face.   The interior of the  room and
the figures are Egyptian,  but  the  yearning
agony in  the Mother’s face,  is simply
human.
    Constantin Makovsky’s “Brides Attire”
was wonderfully rich in color and detail.
The eager expression of the groom, desirous
of entering the door, but  kept  back by the
mother’s hand was a  quiet  bit  of  humor.
The picture  was  full of  happiness.   The
same artist’s “Romeo and Juliet,” a charm-
ingly ideal couple, and delicate and refined
in color.
	Aviagovosky’s “Santa Maria   On   Its
Way to America,” when Columbus, during
a heavy storm,  was surrounded  by his re-
volting crew;  the  incessant  motion of the
waves, the conflict of the winds and waters,
the battle of  the clouds,  the meeting of the
sky and ocean on the sunlight horizon, and
the breaking of the storm,   where the light
strikes across  the  ship  in  a  rainbow   of
promise, are wonderfully impressive.
    There were  a large number of  pictures

[Column 3]

here worth hours of study and  contempla-
tion.
	Seimeradsky’s “Christ At The Home Of
Lazarus” was a beautiful picture,  restful
and  lovely  to look upon.   The  sunlight
filtering through the arbor at the side of the
house and on  the figure of Martha as  with
impatience written on  her  face, she  walks
down  the steps  toward  Jesus  and  Mary,
who  sit  conversing, the dove  cooing and
feeding  near.   The  white  light  of  the
Orient,  the coolness of  the arbor, the  sug-
gestion of a gentle breeze,  which seems to
move  the  leaves  as you  gaze,  with  just
color enough in the drapery  of  the figures
to  light  up   the dead   white,  was  very
beautiful.   There was always a  crowd of
admirers before this truly  religious picture.
    In the Woman’s building, the art display
was  most  creditable.   Among  the mural
decorations, the grand  hall  was a frieze at
each end painted by American women, Mrs.
McMonnies and Miss  Casset.   The former
shows a sure  hand and true conception  of
decorative art; a fresh and pure imagination,
and accords well with the idea of  the build-
ing intellectually and artistically considered.
Miss Casset’s, with  its crude greens  and
blues,  is  not  so  pleasing to my  eye,  nor
does it harmonize in  thought  with the rest
of  the decorations, tho’ the    border is
beautifully painted, the children charming.
The sarcasm implied in the panel where the
figure  of “Fame” is pursued by  women
and  geese, is anything but  flattering  to a
Woman’s Building;  but I suppose we must
take into consideration, the fact, that Miss
Casset is an apostle of “Impressionism”
and this an exponent, of the art.
    The library with its ceiling  and graceful
decoration, is a work  of art  in the highest
type.   The color of the room  is its crown-
ing charm,  being  a  subtle play  of  water
tints of greens, green  browns,  blue greens
and brown blues,  intermingling as they do
in nature and with  the same quiet  restful-
ness  of  effect.    The  harmonious coloring
the  graceful  grouping  and  thought  dis-
played in the beautiful ceiling of the library,
show us the possibilities of a most success-
ful future in Mrs. Wheeler’s chosen profes-
sion.
   Marie Bashkirtseff's painting of “Jean and
Jeaques” attracted  much  attention.   The
little brothers are very natural and cunning,
and  it  is a well painted  and  pleasing
picture.   Here  too  we  have  samples  of
Queen Victoria’s artistic talent, as   well as
that of some  of her  children.   I  was not
impressed  with  her  work.    The  pencil
sketch    of   her  little  terrier,  was only a
few lines suggesting a dog, and might have
been done by any school child.   The head
of  an  East  Indian   in  water  color,  the
Queen’s Indian  Secretary, was  very good.
Six Sketches, water color, views from  her
window at Balmoral and  one or  two more,
small water color and pencil sketches,  of no
merit whatever so far as I could see,  except
as  the work   of   a   Queen.       Princess
Christian’s work,   however,   had   some
merit.    In  fact  a picture  in oil  of an old
castle with  sunset  sky  effect  was  very
clever.    The  paintings of Princess Louise
and  Beatrice were  worth  looking at;  but
their mamma  had  no more  talent  than a
school girl’s first  attempts.      I  have  no
possibility of her coming to such knowledge
I feel free  to give  my  honest impressions.
    Of  the ‘‘Impressionists,’’with their crude
blues, greens and lavenders, dashed  on the


canvas in specks, their motto of “down
with conventions,’ and their theories of
perspective and indifference to detail, it is
said “they have come to stay.” Let us
hope in the future we may discover some of
the “truths” in this school and “honest
purpose’’ that is to influence the work of
all “coming artists.” If I attempt to de-
fine which school of painting I admire
most, taking school of painting in its
broadest sense, I would say I enjoyed the
Russian most. Their intenseness, their
rich yet tempered and gorgeous harmony
of color, their individuality in point of con-
ception, idea and power, gratify my taste
and feeling fully. They are neither
Realists nor Impressionists. Their religious
paintings have the impress of devoutness
and simple taste; their studies of nature are
in its grandest, its loveliest and most
natural phases. They do not effect the
nude, which I was thankful for, having
been surfeited on that in the French depart-
ment. While some of our American
artists,. Harrison for one, spoil beautiful
landscape effects, by painting naked women
in the foreground as for example “In
Arcadie.” It must be a master hand in-
deed, who can paint the nude that is not
coarse; and while I have yet many, very
many, pictures in my mind, I must not for-
get there are others whose impressions are
worthier than mine for your perusal, and
so give place to them.
The joy, the delight of those halcyon
days, of that festival beside the waters of
Lake Michigan, will live in my memory,
forever. It was a realization of my child-
hood’s dream of fairy-land. It is past, yet
who can estimate its marvelous effects on the
minds of those who were privileged to see
its beauties of architecture, its wealth of
art, its magnificent monuments and mar-
vels of science. That I was granted the
privilege of wandering through its broad
streets and sailing on its beautiful lagoons,
of enjoying the treasures housed in its
classic halls, causes my heart to swell with
gratitude. Many and fragrant are the
memories of the moments passed amid the
beauties and wonders of those treasure
houses.
“And when the stream,
Which overflowed the soul, was passed away,
A consciousness remained that it had left,
Deposited upon the silent shore 
Of memory, images and precious thoughts,
That shall not die, and cannot be destroyed.”
EDAHOO.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN.

	IN Olive Schreiner’s Book of Dreams, we
find the following: I stood looking over a
vast plane: a personage stood by my side;
in the distance I saw Man standing erect,
looking wistfully into the future; at his
feet lay what appeared a beast of burden,
indescribable,except that it was covered with
the accumulated dust of ages.
	I turned to my guide for instruction:
He said what you term a beast of burden
is Woman. “Why does she not rise?”
“She cannot.”
	Then I observed that she was bound with
chains, and that the chains extended to the
feet of the man: of this he seemed un-
conscions.
	Then by some unseen power her fetters
were broken, and in her large expressive
eyes I read the wish to be free—still she
remained motionless, weighted down by her

[Column 2]
many burdens. I said “Why does not
Man help her?” He answered, “He can-
not, she must help herself.” Then with a
mighty effort, quivering in every nerve, she
raised her head but soon sank again
exhausted.
	Such has been the history of Woman in
the past. She has been either bound by
the chains of slavery, or if endowed with
that fatal gift—beauty, she was used as a
toy, plaything, to be cast aside at the
pleasure of Man: the fetters may have been
of gold, but they were none the less
effectual.
	But a change has come: in this Nine-
teenth Century have the shackles, that so
long bound Woman in helplessness been
broken. Now it rests with her whether she
will rise to her full stature, and stand side
by side with Man, thus proving herself the
help-meet the Supreme Being designed she
should be. Nor can humanity make any
further progress until women are able to fill
this position.
	In the year 1848 the first Woman’s Con-
vention was held at Seneca Falls N. Y.
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, presiding.
Woman’s Rights, or rather her wrongs
were discussed. From that day to the
present, the emancipation of woman has
met with a vast amount of opposition the
opposition, though less strong to day, still
continues. Yet in the last 45 years a great
work has been accomplished. Wonderful
changes have taken place. Educational
institutions have opened their doors.
In many avenues of employment work can
now be found. The right to hold property
is unquestioned. Colorado and Wyoming
have granted full suffrage, to Woman.
Some other States have partially conferred
this right. All this has been accomplished
through the indefatigable efforts of Mrs.
Stanton and her heroic co-laborers. But
much remains undone, and there is need of
many earnest workers.
in the World’s Parliament of Religions,
recently held in Chicago, representatives
from every civilized nation, attended the
Woman’s Congress, thus giving evidence
of the complete organizations and the deep
interest felt in this most important move-
ment.
	Of those attending, perhaps none acquit-
ted themselves with greater credit than did
the Women of Utah. There, by principles
advanced, their audience was held spell-
bound, and so much interested did they be-
come that many sought further information
through private interviews.
	It is well known that in some respects,
the rights of Woman have been more gen-
erously conceded in our fair Territory than
in any other part of the Union, probably
of the world, and for that reason as well as
others that might be given, we should be
alive to every call that may improve our
political status and qualify us to be repre-
sentative women of America. E. S.
Provo.


A PLEA FOR MORE KINDNESS,
AMONG WOMEN.

BY ALTA WITBECK.

	To every woman whose eyes these words
may reach, I would say: Be kind to
your own sex. Would that my voice
could reach the farthest ends of the earth
when I write ‘‘Women why so unkind to
each other?"


We see it every day in every position and
avenue of life—on the street, in the stores,
on the cars and even in the Churches I am
often actually heart sick at Woman’s Cruelty,
and indifference to each other, cruel both in
words—looks and deeds.
	A tired, delicate, or aged lady will get
in a car comfortably filled with women and
not one attempt to move closer to make
more room, and the elevated eyebrows, the
shrugging shoulders—and oft times mut-
tered words,often sink deep in honest hearts
there to corrode and embitter life perhaps
and again in Social life who is woman’s
worst enemy whose cutting, malignant and
inconsiderate words often mars the whole
life of a young woman.
	I tell you my Sister Woman is not the op-
posite sex whose words slash us, it is our
own petty feelings ard glib tongues which
can account for in no way without it is a
bit of the “Original Sin” left in us.
	But we reccolect the words of one who
said
"There is no thing we cannot Overcome
Say not thy, evil instinct is inherited,
Or that some trait unborn makes thy life forlorn,
Back of thy parents and grandparents lies
The great Eternal Will!
That, too, is thine inheritance:—
Strong—beautiful—divine
Some Lever of Success for one who tries"
	And shall we not try to be more loving,
more charitable? We are made of one clay,
children of one Father, with common hopes
and aspirations.
	Shall we not strive then to be known as
women whose words and deeds are those of
kindness to each other—thereby getting
for ourselves a reputation which says to the
world "Here is a gracious womanly wo-
man—pure in heart—loving in nature, and
noble in character."


“THE Bombay Guardian, Dec. 23, re-
ports the safe arrival of Dr. Kate Bushnell
and Mrs. Elizabeth Andrew from England,
enroute to Burmah and China. They at-
tended and addressed the Bombay District
Conference of the American Methodist
Mission, then in session at Bombay. They
were conducted by Mr. W. J. Gladwin and
were invited to the platform by Bishop
Thoburn, who formally introduced them to
the Conference.”


THE PUREST GIFT

IN my heart are places many,
	Which I give to bless mankind
One for sympathy, and pity, 
	Patience too a home doth find,
A home for thanks and gratitude
	“For mercies shown to me,” 
Forgiveness may it claim its part,
	Wherever I may be.
A place for joy and sorrow each
	For fortitude and strength,
That I may try to faithful be,
	And find that home at length.
A little home for faith is there
	And generosity,
And little faults, that I well know,
	Which never ought to be.
Deep in the center of the heart,
	With all these gifts around, 
There is the dearest gift of all
	That in the heart is found;
For there’s the grandest power of all
	Which mortals class above
All gifts on earth or heaven’s land,
	That little word called love.
	ZINA E. CROCHERON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build
-ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1894.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S PARTY.

	THE magnificent Salt Lake Temple was. indeed a fitting and appropriate place to as-
semble in, to celebrate the anniversary of
tbe birthday of the beloved veteran Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter Day Saints. It was surely an inspira-
tional thought which suggested that his
friends should gather in honor of this great 
and venerable man within those sacred
walls. His connection with the history of 
this Territory as a pioneer, his standing
with President Young on that very spot in 
1847, and hearing that great leader make
the remark that it was the very place where 
the Temple should be erected, and watch-
ing as he has the progress of the work
thereon from the first breaking of the 
ground until the whole splendid edifice was
completed, and his life having been many
times miraculously preserved and hs de-
sires granted that he might live until it was
finished, his succession to the Presidency,
making him the central figure on that won-
derful occasion, are all facts fraught with
such importance, that to celebrate his an-
niversary therein seems the most proper
and natural thing to render honor where
honor is due. 
	About one o’clock when the people were
gathered in one of the large halls, President
Woodruff rose graciously, and welcomed
his friends with such a spirit of love and
sincerity, that all realized the blessing in 
the few words so fervently spoken. 
	The exercises opened with music by the 
Temple choir, and President George Q. 
Cannon offered an eloquent prayer the
choir sang again and brief congratulatory 
addresses were made by Presidents Lorenzo
Snow and Joseph F. Smith. A song writ-
ten for the occasion by Elder H. W. 
Naisbett was sung to the tune of “Auld
Lang Syne,” by W. C. Dunbar the 
audience joining in the chorus. Apostle
Franklin D. Richards gave a short address
in which he expressed the most tender 
affection for the President, and alluded to
his life and labors in the most glowing
terms. 
	Sister E. B. Wells then read the poem
given below written by Sister E. H. Wood-
mansee. 
	EXPRESSION OF ESTEEM.

’Tis fit that loving friends should bring,
	Sweet floral offerings fresh and gay;
'Tis fit that Zion’s bards should sing, 
	A jubilant and festive lay
	On Wilford Woodruft’s natal day.

[Column 2]
Or rich, or poor, whate’er their sphere
	Honor to whom is honor due;
Honor to God’s anointed seer!
	Honor to Zion’s chieftain true!
	May gracious heaven his strength renew.
“An Israelite devoid of guile,”
	To honesty itself akin
Noble his record, clear and clean
	Through many long decades of trial,
Through many a soul-appalling scene. 
Born in a most important time,
Number’d amongst a chosen few—
Sent down to fill a role sublime—
A glorious, marv’lous work to do;
	Pertaining to an era new. 
A dispensation long desired,
	And waited for by seers of old;
A dispensation that required
	The noblest spirits brave and bold,
To storm Tradition’s powerful hold. 
Joseph, the youthful Prophet had
	Sore need of heroes in the field;
Who in the Gospel armor clad,
inspired with faith and light revealed,
	Fought for the Truth and would not yield. 
Faith, steadfast faith, was unsubdued—
Unconquered and unterrified,
When howling mobs, the Saints pursued;
	And dealt distress on ev’ry side
	And drove them to these valleys wide. 
These shelter’d valleys fair and broad,
	That ne’er shall be the foeman’s spoil,
Here in this refuge, long untrod—
Our Hero first upturned the sod—
And planted seed in virgin soil. 
The wilderness is nowhere seen.
	The desert is redeemed from drought,
Her summer robes of emerald green
	Are rich and beautiful throughout;
	The Source of blessings, who can doubt?
Oppressions’s hand so oft upraised
	To vex or put the Saints to flight,
is turn’d aside, the Lord be praised.
Who from the gloom evolveth light
	And ordereth everything aright. 
"Amid the mountain tops” behold!
	The Temple towers salute the sky;
The angel lifts his trump of gold,
	And sends afar the warning cry,
“Repent, the judgment hour is nigh.’
’Tis written, "judgment shall begin, 
	At God’s own sacred house,” and hence
A part of Bab’lon’s strife and din.
Trouble and woe and dire suspense,
E’en Zion’s children needs must sense.
The prophecies we see fulfilled,
	The long predicted woes appear
The stoutest hearts, the strongest willed,
	And mightiest nations quake for fear;
Zion’s redemption draweth near. 
All Zion’s friends should now rejoice.
	So softened are her waning foes,
Hosanna sing with heart and voice,
	For favors that the Lord bestows:'
Upon the people of His choice.
Peace, shall descend like heavenly dew,
	And on our host and hostess rest;
Forever shall their joys accrue,
Yea, for the good they’ve done, and do,
	Truly they are and shall be blest.
Oh, may we all, as in the past,
	However tried by needful cares,
Cling to the truth and hold it fast,
	Lest peradventure, unawares,
We’ll lose “the priceless pearl” at last. 

[Column 3]
Narrow “the way” and strait indeed, 
	Yet wherefore should we be cast down?
"God is our help in times of need,”
And fittingly ’tis thus decreed—
Endurance wins the promised crown. 
	President George Q. Cannon was the 
next speaker. He referred to the depth of 
the love that existed between President
Woodruff and all who had ever been called
to associate with him, to his guilelessness, 
his honesty, his consideration for others’
feelings and views, and to the great bless-
ings that had come to Israel through his
ministrations and preservation. 
	President Woodruff himself followed. 
He observed that his brethren had said a
great deal about his virtues but not one
word as to his imperfections—which he
knew he had, like all other mortals. From
one part of their testimony, however, he 
felt that he might not deviate in the slight-
est degree, and that was their allusion to
the power of God that had preserved and 
sustained him. To Him he felt to give the
glory; and as to whether his remaining
time on earth should be brief or extended,
he had no desires save that all of it should 
be employed in God’s service. His remarks
were full of promise and inspiration, and 
they were listened to with the profoundest
interest. 
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith called at-
tention to the historical incident, and testi-
fied of it, that so far as she knew President
Woodruff and herself were the only living
persons,who had received their endowments
under the personal ‘authority and adminis-
tration of the Prophet Joseph Smith in
Nauvoo. 
	Intermission was announced and more
music given while Bishop J. R. Winder,
who, was in charge, lead the way to the 
dining hall. The arrangements for this
part of the program were excellent, and the
refreshments were delicious and tastefully 
served to the guests, by a dozen or more 
young men and women, who seemed to en-
joy the service. 
	After the intermission the party re-
assembled and listened to more music and 
short speeches by Elder H. J. Grant, Geo.
Goddard, M. W. Merrill, Ezra T. Clark and
A H. Cannon. Br. Clark alluded to the
meeting in Nauvoo after the death of the 
Prophet Joseph when the mantle of Joseph
fell upon Brigham Young, Sister Zina D. 
H. Young testified to the same historic 
fact and said if she had closed her eyes she 
would have felt positive it was Joseph’s
voice.
	Elder David McKenzie then read a poem
written by H. W. Naisbitt entitled “The
Veteran of our Home,” (Affectionately ad-
dressed to President Woodruff on his 87th 
birthday March 1st, 1894.) The remarks
of Br. Clark and Sister Zina in reference to 
the occasion when it became conclusively 
evident to the majority of the assembly 
present that the mantle of Joseph had fallen
upon Brigham suggested to the Presidency
that all present who heard the sermon
should rise to their feet. Those who re-
sponded were eighteen in number those 
who knew Joseph in Kirtland there were
seven. Those who knew the Prophet
Joseph during his lifetime thirty nine. 
	President George Q. Cannon announced 
that as all present would like to shake hands
with President Woodruff and his wife in 
whose honor the party was given, they 
would conclude with an informal reception
to give all the opportunity of congratulating


and shaking hands with the President and
Sister Emma Woodruff. The Doxology
was sung and the guests in turn offered
their personal greetings which was a suita-
ble closing to a very happy and pleasant
day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE silk bill asking for the bounty on
cocoons to encourage sericulture which 
passed both Houses of the recent Legisla-
ture was vetoed by the Governor, for
reasons he considered sufficiently important
to justify, among which were the financial
condition of the Territory which precluded
further taxation and the Democrat principle
of equality for all, special privileges for
none, also the many industries asking for
bounties etc.
	THE Library bill which passed was also
vetoed and although a Committee of ladies
called upon the Governor requesting him to
reconsider the veto, he defended his position
and positively declined to do anything.
	SOME other bills containing objectional
measures to women interested in public 
matters to which suffrage women had ob-
jected were either killed or so far modified as
to need no further protest.
	The memorial presented by the Hon.
John E. Booth of Provo asking that the
franchise be restored to the women of Utah
was approved by the Legislature in both
Houses and signed by the Governor. The
Memorial signed by prominent women of
the Territory asking that the Woman's 
Industrial Home in this City be given for a
Woman’s Hospital, was appended to a
memorial from the Legislature to the Con-
gress of the United States and that also re-
ceived the Governor’s signature.
	WE regret exceedingly that the union of
colleges was not effected and that the 
University received so small an apprpria-
tion, but hope something may yet be done
to save that institution which has been so
useful and beneficial in times past, and for
which such great exertions have been made;
surely the people will be loyal to themselves
in this matter and not allow it to go back-
ward in this age of progress. Whatever
may be said of the old residents of Utah, it
cannot be truthfully said they have not
made great exertions to promote the higher
education of the young people. The
University has always maintained a
standard of which the people might well be 
proud notwithstanding the circumstances of 
colonizing in a new country.
	THE National Press Association of 
Washington D. C. are about to make a tour
to the Midwinter Fair and have invited the 
writer to extend the invitation
to some of her friends; they will stop over
here return a short time on their return
from the Coast, when the intention is to give
them a hearty welcome and some sort of 
suitable demonstration.
	A business session of the Utah W. S.
A. will be held at eleven A. M. on Wedsns-
day April the 4th, in the office of the Wo-
man's Exponent, Room 228 Constitution
Building, Main St.,Territorial Officers, Hon-
orary Vice Presidents and all officers and 
delegates from the Auxiliary Associations
are urgently requested to attend. There
will be a meeting of the Utah W. S. A. 
held on Wednesday afternoon, April 4th,
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, com-
mencing at 3 p. m., when it is confidently 
hoped there will be a good attendance of
officers and members from the outside
counties, some prominent people have been 
invited to speak, and the meeting will
doubtless be an interesting one.
	THE National Woman's Relief Society
will hold a Business Meeting on Thursday
April 5, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall at
eleven A. M. for the transaction of such
business as may come before the Board of 
Directors.
	Zina D. H. Young, President.
	E. B. Wells, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief 
Society will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, in this city, on Thursday,
April 5th, commencing at 9 a. m., 2
p. m.—two sessions. It is very
desirable that the president of each Stake
organization, or one of the board should at-
tend this conference, as there will be mat-
ters of importance considered. 
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
	President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI- MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies' Semi-monthly
Meeting, held in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Rooms, Jan 27, 1894.
	President M. I. Horne presiding, "When
the voice of friendship's heard." Prayer
by Sister Frances Smith. Continued by
singing, "O, God we raise to thee."
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved. President M. I. Horne said, "I
hope we shall have a time of refreshing, on
this lovely day. I am so glad that the
winter has not been a very severe one.
The Lord surely tempers the elements for
the good of His people.
	Spoke of the troublous times, which was
one sign given in prophecy which was to
precede his second coming.
	Said the present depression was one of
the signs for men’s hearts do fail them, for
they know not what is coming.
	Spoke of a Psalm of David, which
speaks of the people coming to a wilderness
of the many blessings here received, and
then after that they should again be brought
here, yet the Lord will bring us out of all
our distresses, and we will see His mighty
deliverance. The Prophet Joseph also ut-
tered the same warnings. Sisters sang a
hymn.
	President Z. D. H. Young, said "I esteem
this a great privilege, to meet with you.
The question comes to my mind, as sung in
the hymn, "How will Zion be free?" By
serving our God these few sisters here are
going to be free. Faithfulness to the Gos-
pel will make men and women free. Spoke
of the Temple, said every stone is a free
will offering of the saints. Think of it
sisters a temple where God and Heavenly
beings can come. Think of our young
ladies, hear them speak and testify, hear
their essays, full of the Gospel, full of in-
telligence. My heart is full of thankfulness
for these things. Sisters if all appreciated
the good received in these meetings, there
would not be a vacant seat in the room. I
ask God to bless every one who will bear

[Column 2]
their testimony.
	Sister Hazon desired more confidence to
speak of the goodness of God.
	Sister E. Barrus desired to put her trust
in God and do her duty.
	Sister Phelps felt that the Lord would
pour out blessings for the great work now
being done in the Temple. Prayed that the
Lord would give us hearts of firmness,
that we may not be turned from the truth.
	Sister Tate felt thankful for a standing in
the church, knew that this was the work of
God, and desired to be faithful.
	Sister Irvine said we come here for a
blessing yet, we often go away without it
because we do not bear testimony. I feel
thankful to my Heavenly Father for every-
thing I have had to pass through and
humbly ask to be kept faithful.
	Sister Aird said I have seen the power of
the Lord made manifest, have seen those al-
most dead raised by the power of God.
	Sister Minners felt blessed in bearing her
testimony, knew this was the work of God,
and desired to be faithful to the end.
	Two sisters in the congregation bore
faithful testimonies and said many good
things.
	Sister Larson offered a fervent prayer for
the poor, the sick and the afflicted.
	Sister Jane James and a number of
sisters bore testimony. Every one speak-
ing desired the blessing promised by
President Z. D. H. Young it was truly a
time of rejoicing.
	Sisters Phebe C. Young and Mary
Bassett added their testimony, also Sister
Workman.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy of Payson spoke
well and at some length, bearing testimony.
	Sisters Forsyth and J. C. Howe bore
excellent testimonies.
	Sister Frances Smith and L. D. Alder
followed.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke en-
couragingly to the sisters, said she had been
edified by the many faithful and wonderful
testimonies borne. Sisters let us learn to
say "Thy will be done, God bless you for-
ever."
	President M. I. Horne said, sisters let us
profit by the lessons learned here today.
We are all in the hands of the Lord, and
we know "Whom He loveth He chasteneth"
May the blessings of God go with you to
your homes. Meeting was adjourned for
two weeks. Sang "Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing." Benediction by Counselor
E. Stevenson.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


MME. ELISE HWASSER, who died re-
cently, was for forty years the greatest
Swedish actress. Mme Hwasser delineated
the heroines in Ibsen’s dramas, and also
played the leading Shakesperian roles.
She retired to private life in 1888.
	MISS MARTHA E. PARKER is secretary of
the New England Tariff Reform League.
Miss Parker became a clerk in the office of
the league four years ago, when the Hon.
Charles S. Hamlin, now an assistant
secretary of the treasury, was secretary.
Temporarily she undertook the duties of
the office when Mr. Hamlin resigned, and
the league, recognizing her efficiency and
familiarity with the work, have since made
her permanent acting secretary. She has
charge of the League headquarters Bos-
ton, where a number of clerks are kept
busy, and a large correspondence is carried
on.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A WOMAN’S ASSEMBLY.

	[Continued.]
	THE speaker commented at length upon
this point, and illustrated how fallacious it
was to bring up objections from an individu-
al standard. He then continued.
	“There is another reason why I think
that women ought to enjoy these rights.
A perfect human being should be equally
developed physically, mentally and morally,
or we might put it still finer than that,
spiritually. It takes all these to make a
complete development of character. If we
cultivate any one of these at the expense of
the others, while we may become eminent
in a single line, still we are not well
balanced. Now, I take it that a com-
munity should be made up in the same way,
and as we change in circumstances we,
necessarily, must change in other ways,
to my thinking, and we are changing in
circumstance. Centuries ago war was the
thing. A man that could fight was sup-
posed to be at the head of everything, and
we have not entirely got over that. But
the chances are wars will not be prosecuted
so vigorously or so frequently as they have
been in the past. The moral force is com-
ing to the front. If a man is educated
physically entirely, he loses both his ability
and his respect for the things he has not
developed, as it requires, in order to make
a perfect human being, that all these at-
tributes should be developed, should be
drawn out and encouraged. I think it ap-
plies in the same way to political govern-
ment; and whenever we sacrifice any one of
these traits for the further development of
the other, then we are making a grave mis-
take. Now, the trouble is how to remedy
that; we have been, in this country, de-
veloping the physical and intellectual,
more or less, at the expense of the moral
and the spiritual, and therefore we have
some very eminent men with regard to
both of these, not only of national but 
world wide reputation. We take illustra-
tions of it. We have seen recently the re-
sults of physical depelopment and there
are some people who take very great de-
light in witnessing such exhibitions. That
illustration was an exhibition of what I
call brute force. I do not care so much for
an exhibition of that kind as an individual.
I regard it much in this way. There are two
animals—I use the brute term of animal to
include both—one is a man, and the other
is a mule. Man may be intelligent, but in
this case I would give more for the mule
than I would the man, merely because the
mule gives better service; I can get more
out of him. We have been in our prepara-
tions in this country, not only in Utah—I
am speaking of the United States—very
lavish, at least sometimes, in the ex-
penditure of public money. This territory
has been lavish in the expenditure of
money for education. I do not believe
there is such another case in history, such
as we can show. Three-fifths, of the entire
revenue of the territory is devoted to school
purposes, and out of the two-fifths of the
territorial revenue we support the Reform
School, the Agricultural College, and the
University of Utah. Again the expense of
collecting the three-fifths of this territorial
revenue, that is, in assessing the property
and collecting the tax, comes out of the
two-fifths. So it presents to us something 
that I believe is unparalleled in, history—
that is to say our generosity in favor of

[Column 2]
education. I believe it is exacting from us
more than it should do by reason of our
circumstances. But we have been very
lavish in our expenditure of public money,
and showing we are very much in
earnest in regard to this mattter of educa-
tion. Now, we have had some develop-
ment of the physical nature, and that has
been going on since 1847; it has been kept
up ever since. We have worked physically
and we have generally earned our living by
physical exercise. Of course there have
been some exceptions; but I am speaking
generally. Now we turned to this intel-
lectual matter, yet we are lacking some-
what in the spiritual or the moral traits. I
do not mean to say we are behind in morals
or manners, but I am speaking of what we
lack in regard to a perfect government.
Now, how shall we remedy this? I believe
the question before us this afternoon is a
complete remedy for the matter. The
moral and spiritual part of man are de-
veloped by cultivation, and yet the moral
and spiritual traits are implanted in women
very early. It is also a fact that is very
patent to me, that women have more of
these traits than men. Women are natural-
ly better than men when it comes to mat-
ters of kindness. I have discovered that
from my association with them ever since I
was a boy. In some respects they are better
than men.
	Take girls from the time they start at school,
say from fourteen to sixteen years of age,
and they lead boys in almost every study.
There are some studies they do dot lead in,
such as mathematics, philosophy, Astronomy
and kindred subjects. Speaking of these
subjects generally, without singling out
individuals, I believe that men lead in these
studies. But in things that pertain to kind-
ness, women keep the lead all their lives.
Now, if a matter of right and wrong is
presented to a man and woman, and you
ask them for an opinion right away, the
woman does not stop to argue or think
about the subject, she will give an answer
immediately as to whether the matter is
right or wrong. The man, if he answers
immediately the chances are that he will
be wrong. But let the man take the
question into his study, and there ponder
over it, perhaps get his library down to
consult about it, and give his opinion, say
in a week; he will then be about as right as
the woman was. But it does not take her
such a long time to form her ideas; she
grasps the question of right and wrong
very much sooner. That is what we want
in this government; we want that element
put into our political constitution, into the
civil polity of the nation. Sometimes we
are called upon to act immediately.
Our political government embraces all parties,
boards of education, boards of every kind
of institutions, legislatures, &c. and I say
that if we had some women in such in-
stitutions, matters that occasionally come
up would be much sooner straightened out.
(Applause.) I am not going to name such
women; but so far as the Legislature is con-
cerned I would willingly trade off some
men in that body for some women.
(Applause.) It might not suit the men, but
it would suit my ideas. Now, I do not
know how long it will be until we reach
all these things. We are getting better;
we are getting a better understanding of
these things. As to the objectious fre-
quently raised against granting women the
franchise I do not think, as I have already

[Column 3]
said, they are well taken. Many people
say, “I do not want my wife to be con-
tinually running away from home.” Again,
some people say, if the women voted they
would vote as the husband says. But I
hold this as a true proposition, that a wo-
man does not lose any of her rights by
reason of marrying. I believe the wo-
man is an absolute entity of herself, and no
man, husband or otherwise, has the right to
interfere with her against her consent. I
have seen the time, of course, in this ter-
ritory when women had the franchise. The
objection was then raised that they voted
just as their husbands told them. If they
did, there was great credit due to the hus-
band—quite a feather in his cap. That is
one of the strongest evidences I know of
that he is right. But I do not think the
men interfered with them in their voting.
I do not know of it. I never asked my
wife which way she was going to vote, or
indicated to her which way she should vote.
I think she is a better woman than any other
woman (the present company excepted.) I
think, however, if I had undertaken to in-
struct her as to how she should vote she
would have used the expression that I re-
member seeing when I was a boy in
England. The expression was engraved in
brass, and contained only four or five
words. I think she would have referred
me to that expression; it pertained to the
Mormon creed—“Mind your own business,"
and if she did not say that she ought to.
She had the right to do it. Therefore, I say
that the women would exercise the franchise
just as well as the men. I do advise
these meetings. I advise that you study
the political situation; that you particularly
commence to learn how to conduct matters.
I persume the first thing women will get
into at all will be matters pertaining to
schools. These matters are conducted
much more simply than are the heavier
matters of a city council, county courts,
and legislative assemblies. But I would
advise that occasionally you have somebody
drop into such meetings, attend the county
courts, city councils, &c. Of course some-
times when you do attend, you will be sor-
ry you went; because things are not al-
ways conducted with great big dignity the
same as they are at home. In these de-
liberative bodies, sometimes the members
get warm and say things that had better
been left unsaid. But attend these meet-
ings when you can. I believe you will be
welcome, and you will learn, from actual
practice, much better than you can from
reading books. You may study from books,
but practical experience is the best. It is a
good thing to go to these places and watch
the proceedings, and when you see things
done that you do not approve of, learn how
to avoid them in the future, and when you
see things that you approve of, learn to use
them in days to come. It is necessary to
acquire such information, not that our ways
are always right. A story is told of a cer-
tain jury. They came out of the jury
room, twelve of them, and they did not
agree. Somebody inquired of one of the
jurymen how it was they could not agree.
Well, he replied, there were eleven fools on
the jury, and I would not go with them.
	Well, there is no need of getting so very
wise. There is no need of assuming that
we are right and that everybody else is
wrong. Acquire knowledge and then ap-
ply it. Knowledge is a very fine
thing, but it is not worth anything unless


you can apply it. Learn to apply that
knowledge. Of course you understand a
great deal of that kind of knowledge which
applies inside of your own doors. I will
consent to that without argument. I yield
the point so far as you have been used, to
domineering—is that too strong?—Well, we
will say having dominion, that will modify 
the matter a little, but I wont come down
much more than that. I suppose you in-
herit it.
	I find my time is up. I desire to thank
you very much for your invitation, and for
the patient manner in which you have
listened to me. I desire to join with you in
this movement; and the time will come—I
expect to live to see it—when this question
of sex will be eliminated from our civil
politics and never again be revived. I hope
to see that day. I have worked for it, I
am still continuing to work for it, and I
never yet voted against a measure that
tended to promote this question. I thank 
you for your attention. I must now catch
my train. (Applause.)
	The next exercise was by Miss Babcock
who recited with fine effect a poem en-
titled “A Woman’s Question.”
[To be Continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. A. held Feb. 20th,
at the residence of Mrs. McCune 270 W.
South Temple, 1st, Vice President Eardley
in the chair. Sang "Raise the Flag."
Prayer by M. W. Wilcox. Sang "Awake
oh ye daughters." Roll call, minutes read
and accepted. Paper read by Mary A.
Freeze entitled "A Jubilee Poem," second
Vice President E. M. Price gave a very
eloquent lecture on Statesmanship, showing
Queen Elizabeth of England to have been
possessed of rare ability in the line, though
only a woman. Mrs. E. J. Lyon sang
"Hard Times." Reading, Josiah Allen's
Allegory on Woman's Rights, by M. E.
Bassett. Territorial President E. B. Wells
made a brief speech especially commended
the lecture given by Mrs. Price, and men-
tioned topics suitable for the meetings
recommended speaking without papers as
good practice.
	Ter. Vice President Mrs. Richards was
gratified to hear Mrs. Price's lecture; also to
notice that she gave it without notes, spoke
of a club to which she belonged where the
use of manuscript was prohibited. Refered
to the debate of Sunday evening on wo-
man suffrage. Thought Dr. Ferguson a
very able advocate heard many say that
they were well pleased with her arguments.
Felt when she (Mrs. Richards) received the
invitation, to speak before the Democrat
Club that it was interested in the subject, had
been told by Legislators, that if Utah were
a State, women should have the suffrage.
Ter. Prest. E. B. Wells thought our great-
est opposition would come from women
themselves. Thought we should have to
work hard to convert them.
	Dr. Ferguson said she would rather talk
to those who oppose, would like to over-
come their prejudices, we ought to try to
get them to our meetings, something might
be said that would help to allay their op-
position.
	Dr. Mattie H. Cannon, said she was in-
terested in our cause, came to hear about

[Column 2]
the bills now before the house looked for-
ward to the time when she could vote.
Had paid ten dollars to become an Ameri-
can citizen and voted twice, thought these
rather dear votes.
	Ter. President E. B. Wells explained in
reference to the bills in the legislature one
was dead and the other changed satis-
factorily.
	The chairman then called for speeches,
C. C. R. Wells made a motion that Dr.
Ferguson receive a vote of thanks for the 
part she took in the debate. The chairman
thought all suffragists heartily thanked her.
A few other suggestions were made and the
meeting adjourned 'till the 3rd Tuesday in
March.
	M. E. IRVINE, Sec.

	BOUNTIFUL W. S. A.

	FEBRUARY 12th, at 2 o'clock was the 
annual meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of South Bountiful. After
some able speeches from various ones, the
financial report was read and on motion
was accepted.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clark President of Davis
Co. took the chair, while the organization
was completed with Mrs. Mary A. Page,
President, and Betsy J. Howard Secretary.


R. S. & P. A. REPORTS.

	THE Relief Society of South Bountiful held
an extra meeting Feb. 12. Very instructive
remarks were made by President Susan
Grant and Counselor of the Davis Stake. 
Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Carrie E
Dye from Salt Lake City addressed the 
audience (which was large) explaining in
an interesting way many duties that rest
on us as wives and mothers. Counselor
Hyrum Grant of the Stake Presidency, 
spoke of the good the Society is doing and 
the magnitude of the work the sisters are 
engaged in. Bishop Richard E. Egan en-
couraged the society of South Bountiful to 
keep on, and not tire in well doing. He 
had greatly appreciated their labors in the
past. 
	Meeting adjourned, all feeling to rejoice 
greatly in the good things they had heard. 
			SARAH A. HOWARD, Prest.
			MARY A. PAGE, Sec. 
	
	UTAH PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	THE Primary Association of Utah Stake
met in conference at Provo, on Thursday
February 22nd, 1894. An officers meet-
ing was held at ten o'clock, at which ver-
bal reports of the different Association were
given by the Ward Presidents. 
	Conference convened at 2 o'clock. The 
program was good and reflected great credit
upon the ladies who teach the children, as 
well as the diligence and capacity of the 
children themselves; the main feature of
the program was the following poem, com-
posed by Mrs. Sarah Goodman, and dictated 
to the memory of our beloved President, 
Sister Annie K. Smoot.
There’s a love that we owe to Annie K. S[---],.
For instructions and teachings to us here below, 
She has left us and gone to the realms upon high, 
She will follow her works with God in the sky. 
Oft times we enjoyed the sweet spirit of God
Then we met her in counsel in labors of love, 
She was noble in action and kind when she'd 
	speak,
She enjoyed God's spirit with the humble and 
	meek. 
Annie K. was a teacher of light
To the Primary children with memory bright, 
She loved and blest them and taught them the 
	truth
For a guide to their memory, while traveling in 
	youth. 
Oh Father in Heaven help us to endure
The loss of a sister, whom we almost adore, 
She was earnest in duty and now she is called
To the region of bliss with the Saints of the Lord
May God bless her counsel who stood by her side
In transaction of duty with God for their guide, 
And the many sweet hours of intelligent work
They humbly gave to the children on earth. 
Farewell dear departed thou hast taken thy flight
To dwell with the righteous in the Mansion of 
	light, 
We ask thy kind visits to enlighten our minds
That we may prove faithful to the end of our time.


The recent death of Mrs. Annie K. 
Smoot vacated all the county officers. Mrs.
Cornelia H. Clayton was elected president,
with Mrs. Eliza Taylor first counselor
(which place she occupied formerly) and
Mrs. A. B. Selk as second counselor, Miss
Ida L. Cheever as secretary, and Mrs. Mat-
tie Nelson as treasurer, these ladies were
set apart by Bros. John and Partridge of the
Stake Presidency.
	A vote of thanks was tendered the re-
tiring ladies, and President John spoke very
kindly of their good work in the Primary
Associations.
	Sister Sarah E. Cluff, who formerly acted
as second counselor, felt that the many
trials through which she had passed in the
last year, rendered it necessary for a time.
Felt to sustain the new officers with all her
heart. Mrs. Cluff’s labors have been highly
appreciated, and the blessings of the As-
sociation attend her in her retirement.
	Many kind and encouraging things were
said and conference adjourned for six
months.
	IDA CHEEVERS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

[Written for the Davis Co. Convention.]

	The Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, like all other associations, has its ob-
ject in view which is the enfranchisement
of all women. Women are the mothers,
wives, sisters and daughters of men, and
speaking of them universally their minds
are equally as strong and perceptible. We
are all the children of Adam and Eve, and
in the second chapter of Genesis we are
told that God said it is not good that man
should be alone and so created woman for a
helpmeet for him, now do you think he
would have created an inferior being for a
helpmeet or companion for man, who had
been created in the image of God, and
where is the man that today would marry a
wife he thought inferior to himself. This
would be degrading to the human race, for
were this the case man would be superior
to his own offspring. The idea that it is
not necessary for girls to be educated is
gradually dying.
	The mother who tutors and brings up
her children to love freedom, to walk in the
paths of morality, should be an educated
woman here comes in equality in education
and we believe in equality before the law.
The nation has at present its fathers but no
mothers. Wherever women have had the
ballot they have used it in the interests of
home and against the saloons, the gambling
houses,and the haunts of infamy. All who
assist in bearing the burdens of the govern-
ment, should share in its privileges and in
the progress of civilization, we expect to
see this come along justice is equality and
equality is justice. It is a principle of our
government that taxation must not be with-
out representation. If women holding
property are to be taxed it follows that wo-
men should be represented by their votes.
Those who are ruled by law should have
the power to say what shall be the
law and who the law-makers. Women are
as much interested in legislation as men and
are entitled to representation.
	One principal cause of the failure of so


many magnificent schemes, social, political
and religious is claimed to be because the
rights and powers of one half the human
race (namely that of the women) have been
ignored.
	Everything to work properly must be
equally balanced. One scarcely need glance
into politics to be assured of the corruption
thereof. Then ask Wyoming about woman
Suffrage. Wherever woman is permitted
to go her influence is felt for refinement, and
today Wyoming stands as an example for
all the States and Territories.
	SARAH A. HOWARD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE FIRST WOMAN LAWYER.

	MRS. MYRA BRADWELL, editor of the
Chicago Legal News, died Feb. 14. She
was born in Manchester, Vt., Feb. 11, 1831.
Her parents were Eben and Abigail Colby.
She went West with her parents fifty-two
years ago. In 1852, she was married to
James B. Bradwell, a rising young lawyer,
and under his instructions began the study
of law.
	She was the first woman who applied for
admission to the Bar in the United States
Her application was refused, but she car-
ried her case to the Supreme Court of the
United States. The court decided that her
marriage was a bar to her admission and
denied her petition.
	Twenty years afterward this decision
was reconsidered and reversed, and Mrs.
Bradwell was admitted to the Bar. In the
meantime she had established the Legal
News.
	Mrs. Bradwell was a woman of much
ability and character, and always a warm
advocate of equal rights for her sex.—Ex.


GOD GIVE US MEN.

God give us men! A time like this demands
Great hearts, strong minds, true faith and willing
	hands.
Men whom the lust of offices does not kill:
	Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy;
Men who possess opinions and a will;
	Men who have honor, men who will not lie.
For while the rabble, with their thumb worn
	creeds,
Their large professions and their little deeds,
Wrangle in selfish strife—lo! Freedom weeps,
Wrong rules the land and waiting justice sleeps.
	OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.


IN MEMORIAM.

	IT is with deep regret we record the death of a
beloved sister, Esther Catherine Park Lusk,
daughter of John and Matilda Park; she was born
June 12th, 1838, Gibson Co, Tennessee, died
October 29th, 1893. Losing her father in
Tennessee she moved with her mother to Illinois
and from there to Council Bluffs. In the summer
of 1867 she came to Utah with her mother; she
was baptized in her childhood.
March 5th, 1854 was married to John Winters
Lusk, making their home for a short time in
Pleasant Grove, Utah Co., moved from there to
Wellsville, Cache Co. where they resided five years.


In 1866 she removed  with her husband and
family, to Malad City, Malad Valley, where she
resided at the time of her demise, she was the
mother of eight children, seven of whom are liv-
ing, and grandmother to thirty-seven, twenty-nine
of whom are still living.
	When the Relief Society was first organized in
Malad City, in 1873 she was chosen for second
Counselor to the President, when a change was
made in the President five years after she was
again chosen second Counselor which office she
held at the time of her demise making her term
of office twenty years, she was also a subscriber
to the Exponent. She was a wise Counselor,
faithful in her office, her heart ever open to com-
fort, bless and encourage the poor and sorrow-
stricken. Her death has made a great vacancy
in our midst, we miss her in our meetings for
added to her many virtues punctuality was fore-
most.
	She has left a character of sterling integrity,
having been a faithful wife, loving mother, and a
bright example to all around her she passed away 
surrounded by her husband and family, she
was so well known and respected, that it seemed
the whole valley mourned with the bereaved
family, by the procession that followed her re-
mains to their last resting place.
Faithful in life and true unto death,
	She has left this dark valley of care
To join with the righteous who sing the new song
	Of the saved and the sanctified there.
	ANN SAWYER, President. 
	ELIZABETH JENKINS, Sec.
Malad City, Dec. 26, 1893.


OBITUARIES.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Since God in His infinite wisdom and mercy,
has seen fit to remove to another sphere of action
our respected and beloved president, Anna K.
Smoot, we her co-laborers desire to express our
appreciation of her virtues and the great loss we
have sustained. She was a dutiful daughter, an
earnest seeker after truth, a noble and devoted
wife, a wise mother and filled her position as
President of the Primary Association in an ex-
emplary manner. In every step of life we firmly
believe she has pleased her Heavenly Father by 
her steadfastness of purpose and integrity.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sincere sympathy to the bereaved husband and
family, and her large circle of friends.
	Resolved: that we esteem her labors for the past
ten years as President of the Primary Association
of Utah Stake worthy of emulation, and respect.
	Resolved: that her memory shall ever be held in
loving remembrance by her fellow laborers, and
the children whom she has taught in those
principles that will lead them back to God.
	Resolved: that a copy of these resolutions be
embodied in our Primary R cords, and published
in the local paper, the Deseret News and the
Woman’s Exponent.
	ELIZA TAYLOR, First Counselor.
	SARAH E. CLUFF, Second Coun.
	MABEL PRATT, Secretary.
	IDA CHEEVER, Asst. Sec.
	OTTILLE MAESER,Treasurer.
Provo Jan. 28, 1894.

	AFTER an illness of three weeks, Sister Martha
Seed Thornley, wife of John Thornly, died at her
residence in Layton, Davis County, Utah, on the
11th, of Dec. 1893 from the effects of pneumonia,
superinduced by la grippe.
	Sister Thornley was born in Preston, Lancashire
England, Sep. 22nd, 1819; where she was baptized
a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter Day Saints, by Jos. Fielding in the year 1837,
being among the first to receive the Gospel in
England. She helped to administer physical
comforts to the late President Heber C. Kimball,
Dr. Willard Richards and many other Elders dur-
ing their missionary labors in Lancashire.
	With her husband she emigrated to Utah in
1855, arriving in time to share with the saints the
hard winter of 55-6. Very soon after they re-
moved from Salt Lake to Kaysville, Utah, and
located on Kay's Creek, which at that time could
boast of but three settlers.
	Sister Thornley has ever been a liberal and
faithful member of the Rebel Society and in the
early days was an active teacher and up to her
dying moments, she was a zealous Latter-day
Saint.
	The deceased was the mother of seven children,
four of whom she lived to see consigned, to the


grave; one infant son and three daughters in the
prime of life. These daughters left an infant son
each, and upon the motherless children she
bestowed great labor, love and care, until she
too was called home.
	Shortly before her death she and her husband
with the members of their family, quietly cele-
brated their Golden Wedding; an event for which
they had all waited with fond anticipation.
And that death should have entered the family
circle so soon after is sad indeed, and her loss
falls most heavily upon her companion of fifty
years.

	Sleep on in peace and take thy rest,
	Thy work on earth is o’er,
	Thy weary feet have found sweet rest
	Upon some fairer shore.

	Sleep on in peace, beloved one,
	The morn will soon be here
	When we shall meet eternally
	And not for life’s brief sphere.
	ELIZABETH G. WATT.


Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND
ACCOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
Will begin her next Class April 9th. Reviews
given to former students free of charge. For
particulars enquire personally or by letter at No.
18 Main St., Salt Lake City.

DR. MAGGIE SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, April
16
Office: 34 East 5th South,
Telephone 383.

DUNFORD'S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday January 29th and continuing for .
30 days.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping do[--] to order. But
ns covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

 VOL. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1894.	NO. 15.


CONTENTS:

	Woman Suffrage Column—Shall Utah Become
A State Without Woman Suffrage—L. L. Dalton.
A Woman’s Assembly. To The Pioneers—Mary
Ellen Kimball. Woman’s National Press Ex-
cursion. Why Women Want The Municipal Bal-
lot—F. M. A. U. W. P. C.—Gladys Woodman-
see. R. S. Reports. Ladies’ Semi-monthly
Meeting—Lydia D. Alder. Miscellaneous.
Notes And News. In Memoriam. Obituaries.
Funeral Reforms.

	EDITORIAL.—The Present Conditions.
Editorial Notes.

	POETRY.—Down By The River—S. E.
Carmichael. When The Summer Comes Again
—L. M. Hewlings. Ten Years Old—Aunt Alta.


DOWN BY THE RIVER.

Down by the River:
The dark flowing river,
	That flows to Eternity’s Sea:
Kneel to the Giver
To God, the Good Giver 
	And pray for my vessel and me.
Cold is it? Dark it is
Hushed as my heart it is.
	Dark flowing river sublime!
Many ships sail on it
Many fleets fail on it;
	Strange, crooked river-of time!
Down by the Riverside
Wreck-covered Riverside!
	Pray for my vessel and me
Pray for us: Pray for us
Solemnly say for us: 
	“God guide ye safe to the sea—”
Swift is the Rivertide
Rough is the Riverside
	Pray for my vessel and me—
S. E. CARMICHAEL.


WHEN THE SUMMER COMES AGAIN.

There will be a glad rejoicing
When the Summer comes again,
When the rivers break their fetters,
And the rills throw off their chains!
When winter has ceased its raging,
Scatt'ring hoar frost, ice and snow,
All its forces northward streaming,
At the Spring's command to go!
Then we'll take some lovely rambles,
When the Summer comes again;
Over soft green grassy meadows,
Cherished rocks, in grove and glen.
Ah, wont all nature then rejoice,
When the Summer comes again!

All living things as in one voice,
Will unite in glad acclaim!
Thro' the wood and o'er the hill side,
Then in freedom we will roam,
Wander by the mountain's brookside,
By the gray old moss grown stones,
These flocks of merry song-birds,
Will make glad the live-long day,
Nature's free charming concerts,
With out dress parade, or pay.
Then vestments of bright adorning,
Will be worn through earth's domain,
And in justice beauty blooming,
When the Summer comes again!


But there'll be something missing;
When the summer comes again,
Some golden links most precious,
Have been torn from out life's chain;
Tho' summer comes with beauty,
Wealth, and plenty in her train,
Her power can ne'er restore,
These lost links from out life's chain,
She will bring buds and flowers,
But we'll listen all in vain,
For tones from voices golden,
When the Summer comes again.
"Arnold Dell."	L. M. HEWLINGS.
Tenafly N. J.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

SHALL UTAH BECOME A STATE WITHOUT.
WOMAN SUFFRAGE?

	To vote or not to vote! That is the
the Question. Shall we drift with the
sluggish tide of Custom, and in our Or-
ganic Act rivet the fetters of perpetual
minority upon the mothers of so hardy a
race of men as Utah can boast?
	Shall we mar our onward progress as a
Commonwealth and clog the footsteps of
half our citizens by locking in the faces of
our daughters the doors of honest public
responsibility, and then, as from time im-
memorial, endeavor to shoulder upon them
the blame for the misdeeds of our sons?
Shall we swear at the nuptial altar to love
and cherish, to endow with all our worldly
goods the woman who forsakes father and
mother for her love's sake, and then pro-
ceed to take by force of law her time, her
strength, her conscience, her money, in
fact, her whole being, body and soul, into
our individual service, leaving her not
even her identity to call her own?
	Shall we boast of our free condition if
our mothers are in bondage?
	Shall our sons be untainted with servi-
tude and degradation if their mothers be
not free, any better than they could be all
white if we gave them African mothers?
Could our children be as great economists,
as far-sighted statesmen, as wise jurists,
from such sources as if sprung from
Cornelia or Portia?
	Who dares to say women are not
capable of self-government, should never
dare place a child of his own in the care
of a woman, because it is a self-evident
truth that he or she who cannot control
self is not fit to have the control of another;
particularly an unformed, undeveloped
soul.
	Shall women themselves, under the veil
of their traditional modesty, stand silently
by in a crisis like the present, and let this
great wrong be done to them and their
children, to their country and civilization?
	Mark this, sister women! To do so
would make us accessories before the fact
to nothing less than a great crime. You who
walked side by side with your pioneer
husbands out of civilization into desola-
tion, you who bore more than an even
share of hardship and danger in subdueing
this stubborn, unfriendly clime, you who

[Column 2]
toiled, hoped, prayed but wept not, can
never be persuaded, that you and your
daughters are not equally concerned in all
that pertains to this hard-won home, equal
heirs to the grand estate.
	All men know it is not in us to boast;
but we do not deny that our record of the
past gives us room to boast of every
requisite to honest, useful citizenship; and
we look with confidence to our husbands
and fathers, to see that our claims be not
ignored, and our rights not abridged, when
the crown of Statehood shall rest upon the
brow of our beloved Utah.
	L. L. DALTON.


A WOMAN’S ASSEMBLY.

[Concluded.]
ADDRESS BY M. HUGHES CANNON M. D.

	Madame Chairman, Gentlemen and
Ladies.
	An old powerful and influential oppo-
nent to Woman's Suffrage relates the fol-
lowing little story with the attempt to
discourage women favorable to the cause of
suffrage—
	"Once on a time in Ormudz there was
a Peri with tiny feet and glittering wings,
who was passionately fond of diamonds,
her crown, drapery and shoes were solid
with the purest gems. She herself ap-
peared at a little distance, like a wee dot of
a flying diamond. Yet there was one
precious jewel which she discovered one
day by the river, and which she coveted
more than all she had before collected. It
was very heavy and bright as the sun; too
heavy for her atomic head and far too bril-
liant to be becoming to her. The name of
the rare jewel was Somethingmore. Her
friends urged her to avoid the display, and
warned her against her vain desire to be-
come conspicuous. But she was not con-
tent. She thought that she only needed
this precious Somethingmore in her crown
to make her supremely happy. So she
commanded the gem to be set in her crown,
and started in a blaze of light to visit her
humbler neighbors. But alas! the new
jewel was so bright, that its fiery rays
melted her diamond robes, blistered her
feet and scorched her wings—soon her
crown itself was dissolved by the heat, and
she herself fell dead from suffocation.
When her sisters found her, Something-
more had scorched the grass about her;
and to this day the people of Ormudz
show the barren, ashy hillside, burned and
crisped so long ago by the fatal Something-
more."
	The moral to be drawn from the little
story of the noted gentleman is that wo-
men now have all the legal rights they re-
quire—deprived only of the ballot, which
is the fatal Somethingmore and might result as
disastrously to the women possessing it, as
did the diamond to the Peri.
	This story might do to tell the women of
the east or west who have never had the


[Column 1]
franchise, but not for the women of Utah,
who exercised this privilege for seventeen
years, without the scorching of a single
wing.
	“To make men and women happier or
purer, or more intellectual is the aim of
every laudable enterprise, political or
social, and without such a purpose, or with-
out the adaptation of means to the
that end, every accomplishment of
undertaking should fail.
	There must be a combination of motive and
work, a blending of intellect and emotion,
a strong desire with a firm hand, a right-
eous purpose with competent skill, to ac-
complish any permanent good or to carry to
success any needed reform.”
	That reform and purification in the exer-
cise of the franchise, is needed at the
present day is undoubted. Women with
the right to vote would be a strong phalanx
in assisting to bring about this needed re-
form. Home and kindred are too dear for
them to place in office men whose honor
integrity, and efficiency to control are
doubted. “There are yet many realms of
silence to be made vocal, many scientific
truths to be discovered, many arts to be
perfected, which require the hands and
minds of women—she must begin as other
noble women and nearly all great men have
begun, and give herself soul and body to
the acquisition of wisdom and skill, and
her very opposition and difficulties will be
gain. There is natural ability enough and
the persevering will only is needed.” Wo-
man must throw off her bondage to fashion
her submission to folly, says a well known
writer. She must defeat the enticements of
pleasure, the flatteries and censures of
others; all prejudices all notions of
propriety bend to genius and culture. A
well disciplined mind, and a generous heart
will look the Lion opinion in the Eye, and
move on, he will quail before her and will
assail her no more. Let a woman endowed
with natural genius, and assisted by years
of persistent culture appear in public, in
classical hygienic and elegant apparel, how
soon will she influence the fashions of those
who recognize her value; her dress, her
books, her manner, her, language, all
would have disciples and earnest followers.”
	The forgoing remarks are addressed to
women who could crystalize into realism,
“Queen of the household” who have suf-
ficient revenue at their command to reign
as veritable Queens over that basic and
most important realm of all government,
the home, who would have time and health
to become the best of all object lesson in-
structors of the plastic minds of that realm
—the children—as well as time for their
knowledge and influence to extend into the
halls where laws are framed for the con-
struction and management of Orphan
Asylums, Children’s Homes and Hospitals—
prison matron work and scores of other
avenues which today sadly need the ad-
mixed psychology of woman.
	Show me a nation where the machinery
of every household is conducted by an intel-
ligent woman, who is its superintendent—
Queen if you please—and not its drudge,—
assisted by the advice and counsel of the
masculine element, and I will show you a
nation that has well nigh reached the
Zenith of its glory; for where the basic
element or foundation of a government is
healthful and sound, there is good pros-
pect of the superstructure nearing perfec-
tion.

[Column 2]
	One of the principal reasons why women
should vote—is that all men and women
are created free and equal. No privileged
class either of sex wealth or descent should
be allowed to arise or exist. All persons
should have the legal right to be the equal
of every other.
	“The difference in the natures of men
and women, is not a difference in value, but
the kind of merit. He has qualities which
she has not; she possesses traits and genius,
he does not, they differ from each other, and
yet in their worth to the world, and to God,
they are equal with each other.” The
genius of each should blend in the basic
element of government the home, as well
as in the plans and machinery of its super-
structure.
	"In these modern times the standards of
value have been readjusted, and whereas
once physical strength and reckless courage
were held in the highest and almost ex-
clusive esteem of mankind—now the gems
of wisdom, culture, purity, beauty, love
and skill have a value which may out-
weigh and purchase that brute force once
so priceless. Once to be born a female was
to become a plaything or a slave; today in
the best most cultivated, and most power-
ful circles woman is the peer of the noblest
man.”
	If women are granted the privilege to
vote, it is not going by any means to sweep
away all existing wrong in the world, but
it will be one more step toward equality
before the law. “There will still be some
drunken, brutal husbands, there will still be
parsimonious and contemptable heads of
families, there will be poverty, aching heads
and hearts; there will be fraud and wrong,
but the skirts of the law will be clean on
this one point and not compelled to bear
the blame.”
	To secure just laws and then execution
will require the exercise of much common
sense and at this point woman’s foresight
and quick judgment would be an aid in the
construction of good government.
	“If women orators desire to speak to the
masses, they must show they are ready to
sacrifice themselves to the cause, sufficiently
to sink every personal ambition or desire
for fame, and study the cause and those in-
fluences, which will assist in its advance-
ment.” And may the day be hastened
when women will know all their rights,
and knowing dare maintain.
	In the enrollment of members in the suf-
frage cause Utah stands second in the
United States. New York State taking the
lead, and while we rank among the first in
numbers, we bring up the rear in the mat-
ter of enthusiasm and it is for the purpose
of arousing more interest and energy in the
cause that this and similar meetings have
been inaugurated;—so in order to secure the
necessary enthusiasm we will

	“Ring the bells, and fire the guns
	And fling our starry banners out,
	Call freedom! ’Till our little ones
	Give back the ringing shout."

	Mrs. Bessie Dean Allison, who came down
from Ogden specially to be present, then
sung, in her usual finished style, “The
Journey is Long,” which was highiy ap-
preciated, and called forth generous ap-
plause.
	The President apologized for the absence
of Mrs. Emily S. Richards on account of
illness.
	Dr. Hasbrouck next briefly addressed the
meeting. He realized the prejudice that

[Column 3]
existed upon the question of woman suf-
frage, and expressed the opinion that the
only way to overcome this prejudice was to
talk upon the subject intelligently whenever
occasion offered. He was heartily in favor
of the object of the meeting, and hoped
when Utah was admitted into the Union
the women would be allowed to exercise
the right of voting.
	Mr. George D. Pyper next sang a
beautiful solo, “Songs of Araby” his
high notes were particularly delightful; and
altogether the music was an excellent
feature.
	MRS. LUCY A. CLARK, president of the
Woman’s Suffrage Association of Davis
County, was the next speaker, and, after a
few introductory remarks, said that, in so
far as woman’s suffrage was concerned,
their sole weapon upon which to convert
the world of mankind was the Declaration
of Independence. To substantiate her as-
sertion she referred to several paragraphs in
that instrument to show that women should
have all the rights and privileges of an
American citizen. She objected to the
word “male” in regard to the qualifications
of voters, as contained in the 14th Article
of the Constitution—and asserted that
that word (“male”) should be stricken out
of the Constitution. She then referred to,
and paid a high compliment upon, the sev-
eral eminent lady leaders in the woman
suffrage cause, among whom were Elizabeth
Cady Stanton &c. Aunt Zina D. Young—
wno stood up in the Congress of the
Representative Woman in Chicago and de-
clared herself a woman suffragist, and, in
her travels east, west, north and south in
Utah, has earned the title of one of the
“mothers in Israel”—and maintained that,
in such an array of talent, no one should
be ashamed even to be a private in the
ranks of the woman Suffragists. The
speaker then called attention to a resolu-
tion passed by the Legislature of Wyoming
in which it was stated that, by the influence
of women holding the franchise, and
exercising voting and official power, for a
quarter of a ceutury, the poor houses had
been depleted, peaceful and orderly
elections had been maintained, and good
government was in the ascendancy through-
out the whole state. The leaders in the
Colorado campaign were also mentioned,
in reference to the woman suffrage
question; and the speaker concluded by
urging all to do their utmost, by trying the
key in the right direction, for the cause in
which they were interested.
	Samuel Richards Esq. was the concluding
speaker. He felt it an honor to be invited
to appear before them on that occasion, and
judging from the large assembly present,
and the intelligence that had been displayed,
he thought the cause of woman suffrage in
Utah was upward and onward. He had
always been in favor of women having the
privilege of the franchise, and of taking
part in the government of local affairs.
Their influence for good was admitted on
every hand, and it was a mystery to him
why people should be afraid of that in-
fluence. He had not appeared publicly to
any extent in regard to this question; but
if ever the opportunity should occur where
his vote would aid the cause, that vote
could be depended upon.
	The President then made a few conclud-
ing remarks, and the meeting adjourned.

	(Reported in shorthand by John Irvine.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TEN YEARS OLD.

	[Lines addressed to my little niece and name
sake Alta Wilbeck Brown who resides at Manti-
Utah.]
		Ten years old my little girl:
		For a moment stop this whirl,
		Till in eye of blue,
		I can prove it true,
		Like April day yourself,
		A sad, then laughing elf;
		Tear-drops come down
		Then joy all around.
		How soon the bud is blown,
		Its folded beauty shown,
		May the blossom grow
		Till ripe fruit it show!
		Then years from to day
		If we on earth shall stay
		When maiden brow I kiss
		My little girl I’ll miss.
		Should you live, and Auntie sleep,
		A place for me in memory keep 
		And know that noble woman-hood,
		I sought for you as chiefest good,
		God in Heaven bless this child,
		When the way is lone and wild.
		Or where still waters glide
		Always near her abide.
AUNT ALTA.
West Coxsackie N. Y. Jan. 31st, 1894.


[Column 1]			
	TO THE PIONEERS.

	I DO feel to congratulate you all and all
the Pioneers who are permitted to meet on
this occasion at the Bee Hive house: and 
regret that I cannot be one of the number.
	I feel that I am also a Pioneer, having
arrived in this valley Sep. 12th 1847.
This is the date our Captain George B.
Wallace gave of the time of our arrival
here. Is not this a pretty quick time for
ox-teams to follow the mule teams which
started from Winter Quarters the 1st, of
April 1847; our company a month later the
1st of May. We arrived at the valley in
one month and nineteen days later than the
first company did.
	(Would like to tell you much more if I
only felt able to write it.)
 I must say, however, that it is indeed
wonderful to reflect upon the past forty six
years of our lives, how often our afflictions
have been sanctified to our good: and many
if not all have been a blessing in disguise
even as that of the Battalion being called to
go to Mexico.
	But we have had joys as well as sorrows.
Was it not indeed a joyful sight to see our
President and company meet us at Pacific
Springs the last of August, when we were
journeying hither. They were on their re-
turn to gather up the rest of the families at
Winter Quarters. They stopped with us that
day, and one more day then each company
went on their opposite way rejoicing.
	Again we rejoiced to see Great Salt Lake
Valley, my heart it seemed jumped in my
mouth and tears in my eyes, saying ‘‘here
is our resting place, thank our Father.”
We saw it in the distance from the top of a
high mountain two days before we reached
the fort. Joy again, when we got into
the Fort built of logs, doors inside and only
a port hole on the outside to watch the
Indians from. Then a joyful meeting with
Sister Ellen S. Kimball and Sister Clara
Young and her mother Sister Harriet
Young, who came with the first company.
	Only think, we also found quite a
few of the Battalion who had just re-

[Column 2]
turned from Mexico. And did not we have
joyful meetings and interesting times that
winter; and this is not all, the weather so
much finer and much warmer than any
Winter I ever saw in the State of New
York.
	It is with feelings of gratitude that I re-
flect upon the past but I cannot tell it all.
This party has awakened feelings more
than I can express; hoping this may be
acceptable from your aged friend,
	MARY ELLEN KIMBALL. 
March 27th, 1894.

TO ELLEN SAUNDERS KIMBALL.

[COMPOSED JAN. 1st, 1848, IN THIS VALLEY.]

	Oh Ellen! my sister raise thy drooping head,
And welcome the New Year, the old one has fled:
With its joys and its sorrows alike it has flown,
And left us to think they were once our own.
It has fled and gone, yet we treasure the past
As sacred to memory: and long may it last,
Each blessing a prize as sent from above,
With hearts full, of gratitude joy, peace and love.
Yet in sadness thou thinkest of friends left behind
Whose hearts have been faithful, and acts very
	kind,
In visions we’ve seen them in griefs dark array,
Be thou only faithful and continue to pray.
Yes continue thou faithful, and be of good cheer,
For blessings await thee, and are very near:
When thy heart shall rejoice, and voice cry aloud
Glory, and honor, and praise to the Lord.
But Ellen since sorrow is mingled with joy,
Let us cheer one another, and our time we’ll em-
	ploy,
In seeking for wisdom, for its paths are peace
Its crown is immortal and joys never cease.
	M.E.K.


WOMAN’S NATIONAL PRESS
			EXCURSION.

	THE excursion to California under the
auspices of the Woman’s National Press
Association, leaves Washington Sat-
urday, April 14th 2 p. m. It arrives in
Cincinnati Sunday morning and St. Louis
Sunday evening. The round trip rates
from Washington are $83. From points
farther East the same with local fare added.
From St. Louis the round trip rates are $47.
and at points all along the route parties can
secure a proportionately reduced rate by
writing to Mrs. Joanna W. Turner, 906
Mass. Ave., Washington D. C. and being
enrolled as a member of the excursion
	The sleepers are chartered at a price
which makes them one third less than usual
and reclining chair cars are free from St.
Louis. To engage a whole berth in the
sleeper, parties must send name and ten
dollars as collateral. Arrangements are
made for reduction on meals also in Dining
Car and Buffet, and lunch baskets are ad-
mitted, but must have soft handles to slip
under seats. Can refill them where stops
are made.
	Receptions will be given at Los Angelos,
San Francisco, Salt Lake, and no doubt at
Denver and Chicago. Tickets may be ex-
tended to July 1st, but the party in a
body will have such a grand return sight-
seeing trip that few will want to linger
longer than the 8 or 10 days at San
Francisco.
	Eastern people will confer with agents
nearest their starting points who represent


the Penn. R. R. who run in connection
with the Chesapeake and Ohio. Write to
Mr. McConnell, Agent, at 378 Broadway,
N. Y. Wherever you apply show the
itinerary of Chesapeake and Ohio, which
can be had of their agents or of Mrs.
Turner, and ask the lowest rates to join the
train at Washington—the grandest
Continental trip over our country.


WHY WOMEN WANT THE
MUNICIPAL BALLOT.

1.	BECAUSE, as mothers, they are con-
cerned in the maintenance of law and or-
der, in the suppression of disorderly places,
immoral shows and obscene posters and
publications.
2.	As home-keepers, they are interested
in gas and water rates, in the quality of gas
and water supply, in sewer construction
and connections, in the removal and dis-
posal of garbage, and in the cleaning of
streets, gutters and offensive places.
3.	As citizens and philanthropists, they
are interested in city charities and cor-
rections, in hospital service, in relief work
and care of the poor, in the management of.
penal and reformatory institutions, in the
appointment of police matrons, the care of
dependent or incorrigible children, in the
disposal of tramps and offenders, and in the
preservation of historic places.
4.	As tax-payers and property-holders,
they are interested in the degree of protec-
tion afforded by the fire and police, depart-
ments, in the construction and improve-
ments of streets, sidewalks and parks, and
in all expenditures affecting the rate of
taxation.
	The municipal gives a voice in these and
other municipal affairs in which the wo-
men who live in cities are deeply concerned.
Ex. F.M.A.


MRS. VIRGINIA C. MEREDITH of Cam-
bridge City, Ind., proprieter of one of the
finest Shorthorn herds in the country, is
writing for the Breeder's Gazette a series
of able papers on women as farmers. She
belives there is no spot equal to a farm for
at once furnishing a competence and
enabling a woman to establish a beautiful
home and bring up her children nobly.

	MRS. BALLINGTON BOOTH resides at
Montclair, N. J. She is the mother of a
sturdy little son of six years and a baby
girl sixteen months old. Although she is
so much engaged in lecturing and other
Salvation Army work, her home is well
kept, and her children are healthy and sun-
ny tempered, Mrs. Booth manages to
make her trips short, with frequent returns
home, where all her time, aside from her
office work, is devoted to her children.
“We have such good times together!” she
says.

	A RECENT letter from New Zealand says:
"I have traveled in many countries, but in
no other land have I seen the courtesy and
unobstrusive chivalry habitually exhibited
to women whether young or old, by New
Zealand young men of every condition and
rank. The status of a New Zealand wo-
man is considerably higher than that of her
sister in Australia or England, and she is
not likely to forget that she gained the
political franchise, not by inadvertence or
by party scheming, but as a deliberative act
of justice no less than chivalry on the part
of her countrymen,”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.                    
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		-	- 			Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		 PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY 				 APRIL 1,1894.


[Column 1]
THE PRESENT CONDITIONS.

	THE many difficult problems which arise
out of the condition of the country in con-
sequence of the financial depression are
hard to solve, various temporary remedies
for existing evils are suggested but none
are sufficiently practical or far reaching
enough to cover the ground. The present
outlook is by no means bright considering
things naturally, but to those who put faith
in God there is a consolation, knowing that
He careth for all. Man however is ex-
pected to exert to the utmost the ability
with which He is endowed by his Creator,
not only for himself individually but for
his fellow countrymen. The Savior’s in-
junction “Love thy neighbor” would help
things very much, but on the contrary the
application is made only to one’s own, in-
stead of one’s neighbor. The great good
of humanity is very little considered by the
masses. The rights of each individual in
relation to each other and to the great world
of mankind is not sought out. To get at
the root of the matter and seek out the
cause of the differences between capital and
labor, or between the government and the
governed were a Herculean task, and even
then were the case analyzed what sort of
Doctor could prescribe. And as we can-
not revolutionize the world at large, it
might be well to commence at home.
	If the people of this Territory had heeded
the counsel of its first Governor Brigham
Young, they would be self-sustaining to-
day to a great extent. There would have
been more manufacturing, and more paid
laborers, and there would also have been
more land under cultivation,and consequent-
ly more bread for the hungry.
	By this time the people might have ad-
vanced far enough to have established the
United Order which far surpasses all the
schemes and inventions of the modern
novelist. Bellamy’s ‘‘Looking Backward”
is as a cob house compared to the strong
substantial structure on a firm foundation,
which the united order presents, to the
student of ways and means, by which to
better'the condition of the human family.
	The Single Tax people think that a great
reform in the financial and material ele-
ments of the world can be brought about
through the practice of the methods ad-
vocated by them, indeed they are very
sanguine upon the subject, and it is pos-
sible perhaps for some improvement to be
made, were they able to educate the masses,
or the majority of citizens in the ideas they
are promulgating.

[Column 2]
	When in Chicago during the World’s
Fair the writer attended a meeting and re-
ception given by some of the advocates of
the Single Tax, and heard the matter dis-
cussed on its merits. It is not likely
people will accept this new doctrine very
readily, but in New Zealand where it has
had partial application it had such good ef-
fect that the vote was overwhelming in
favor of its continuance, and it is given in
proof of its benefit “That New Zealand is
the only country within the limits of our
so-called civilization which felt no financial
depression and was unvisited by panic dur-
ing the past year.”
	In brief the few important points are
these. First—“Land in political economy
means all natural opportunities, farms, villa
sites, city lots, fisheries, mines, lumber re-
gions, water power etc.
	Second “Man cannot live without land;
without land he has neither clothes, food,
shelter, nor the thousand and one things
necessary to life, since none of these things
exist except by the application of labor to
land.”
	Third. “Thus the right to life involves
the right to land.”
	Fourth. “Therefore every man has an
equal right to land with every other man.”
	The grand question involved in all this
is, how to secure the land to which one is.
entitled without infringing upon the sacred
rights of others. This will no doubt
hinder the conversion of many as it will
be years before any amicable adjustment
could be reached.
	In the meantime our advice would be to
cultivate the land that lies waste under such
laws and regulations as now exist instead
of idling away one’s time in dispute over
capital and labor, or in tramping over the
country in defiance of decency and good
order.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	MRS. NELLIE GRACE late Secretary of
the Relief Society upon the Sandwich 
Islands called at this office on her way
home from her mission with her husband,
her little girl accompanied them. Brother
and Sister Grace have returned well, and
testify that they enjoyed this foreign mis
sion very much indeed. Sister Grace told
us many interesting things concerning the
native women in the several branches of
the Society over there. The sisters on
those far away Islands are anxious to learn
and to be in conformity with our organiza-
tion in the land of Zion. Brother and
Sister Grace have returned to their home in 
Nephi, after nearly three years sojourn in a 
foreign land where Mrs. Grace has been en-
gaged in teaching and her husband in
preaching the Everlasting Gospel to a
benighted people.
	BY invitation of Mrs. Jennie Hyde of the
22nd Ward in this City several of the
sisters met at the residence of Bishop Solo-
mon on Thursday at 5 p. m. March 22nd,
in honor of the fortieth anniversary of the
birthday of the Bishop’s wife. The affair
was perfectly arranged and Mrs. Solomon
had no idea of it until some of the invited
guests arrived. Everything passed off very
pleasantly and the refreshments were both
delicious and abundant and in great variety.
After a social hour or two enlivened by
instrumental music and songs, a program
was carried out under the management of

[Column 2]
Mrs. Hyde consisting of music by the
young ladies and songs by Mrs. Julia Druce
Pugsley, an original poem by Miss Carrie
Smith addressed to Mrs. Solomon, recitation 
“Only A Girl” by Miss Abby Solomon and
speeches by several of the guests including
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith,
E. B. Wells, M. L. & Elizabeth Nebeker,
Bishop Solomon, his wife and others,
Sister Mary Ann Hyde spoke beautifully
in the gift of tongues, Sister Zina D. H. 
Young gave the interpretation, there were
quite a number of young sisters present
who had never before heard the gift of
tongues; the evening was a delightful one
in every respect. The EXPONENT joins
with the many friends of Mrs. Solomon in
wishing her many hapyy returns of the
day, with the blessings of health happiness
and prosperity.

	REV. B. B. NAGARKER, of Bombay,
India, is here on a visit to our City, and
expects to remain several days and it is
understood (or stated) that he intends to
make a study of the principles and doctrines
of the Latterday Saints. Mr. Nagarker
is a priest of the Brahmo-Somaj and was a 
Delegate to the Parliament of Religions in
Chicago. The First Presidency of the
Church gave a reception in honor of Mr. 
Nagarker at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas Jennings where he had the op-
portunity of meeting not only the First
Presidency of the Church but several of
the Apostles, and a few of the most dis-
tinguished women of the Church, Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, Mrs. George Teasdale, Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow and several other brethren and
sisters. Mrs. Jennings house was artistical-
ly decorated with flowers and trailing vines,
and the dining room was tastefully ar-
ranged. The refreshments were certainly
delicious and graciously dispeused by 
charming young girls. In fact the re-
ception was a success, the instrumental
music of Miss Celia Sharp and the vocal 
by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley added, as
good music always does to the enjoyment of
the guests. Mrs. Pugsley besides singing
a difficult opera, in which she reached the
higher notes, the simple, sweet, old ballad
“The Last Rose of Summer,” in her very
melodious voice and graceful manner.

	THE Woman’s Mass Meeting held in the
theatre March 29th, 1894 was a perfect
success numerically, and we hope and trust
it will be in the furtherance of the practice
and promotion of the object and sentiment
of home industries and manufactures.
Mrs. W. S. McCornick presided. Seated
on the platform beside the speakers were
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Maria Y. 
Dougall, Mrs. M. B. Salisbury, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. George A. Lowe and others.
Dr. Ellen B. Furguson was the first
speaker, making a very able effort in the
interest of home products and the work
to be done in promoting the various enter-
prises. Mrs. Kinney’s was a written paper
and dealt with the ethical. Mrs. Froesieth.
was forcible and very much in earnest, Mrs.
Elmer B. Jones was a very able address
and has been highly spoken of. The last
speaker Mrs. Emily S. Richards was born
in Utah and consequently was familiar
with the efforts made in the early days,
and was well prepared to speak understand-
ingly  upon a subject which she had been
taught in her childhood. The ladies ac-
quitted themselves creditably and it is ar-


dently hoped the meeting will prove bene-
ficial and the result of the great endeavors
being made will strengthen the movement.
	The following resolution was voted upon
	RESOLVED—That the women of Utah are
heartily in sympathy with the home industry
movement and with the efforts of the manufactur-
ers bureau, and that they will support the move-
ment in thought and deed.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U.W. P. C.

	THE U. W. P. C. met by special re-
quest on the evening of the 16th of March,
at the office of Dr. E. R. Shipp. After
prayer by Mrs. H. A. Badger, the minutes
were read by the Secretary and the roll call
responded to with selections from the poets.
	The names of Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson,
Miss Maude Pratt, Miss Pearl Russell, Miss
Olea Shipp and Mrs. Fannie Stewart, of
Pleasant Grove, were proposed for member-
ship and voted in as members by the club.
All members voted in favor of having our
next meeting on the usual date, the last
evening of the month.
	The Secretary read an article from Mrs.
Stewart entitled “The Mission of Today.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the coming
meeting of the Federation of Clubs, to be
held in May, at which a representative of 
the U. W. P. C. will be expected to speak
extemporaneously. Mrs. Wells read from
the writings of Hannah T. King a poem
entiled “Life.” A pleasant discussion
followed in which all the members took part.
	While refreshments were being served,
Miss Gladys Woodmansee rendered some
music.
	The programme for the next meeting to
be as for the last meeting with the addition
of an article on “Love,” by Mrs. M. E.
Shipp, a poem by Mrs. N. C. Taylor, and
quotations from the Psalms by the members.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]	
	R.S. REPORTS.

	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened
in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
March 23rd, 1894. President M. I. Horne
presiding. On the stand with President
Horne was her Counselor E. S. Taylor,
and Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W.
Smith and E. B. Wells of the Territorial
Board. Meeting opened with singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” etc. Prayer was
offered by Sister S. B. Gibson. Singing
“Glorious things are sung of Zion” etc.
Roll called and responded to as follows:
twenty-six branches were represented by
Presidents, eleven by Counselors, one by a
teacher, one by a Secretary making in all
thirty-nine branches, leaving nine without
representation. Sisters Julia C. Howe and
Lydia D. Alder were then voted in and
unanimously sustained as aids to the Stake
Presidency of the Relief Society and Ella
W. Hyde as Asst. Sec.
	President Horne said she would like
the sisters to hand in their returns for the
Temple pictures as it was time for the
business to be settled up, said she wished
to explain the object of the organization of
the Relief Society. It was not to help any
that could help themselves, or encourage 
pauperism. Only the needy and afflicted
should be assisted. Thought charity was

[Column 2]
frequently given to those who did not need
it, found in her own experience many un-
worthy poor, Presidents should instruct the
teachers in regard to these things; referred
to the liberality of the people in donating
during the winter and made other remarks;
in regard to conducting the affairs of the
Relief Society we should be practical as
well as spiritual and should not lose sight
of the object of the first organization of
the semi-monthly meetings which was re-
trenchment. Spoke further on this subject,
and of the necessity of obeying counsel,
and the performance of every duty.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor pointed out the
necessity of officers and members of the
Relief Society being united and working
hand in hand with the Bishops. Spoke of
the evils of fault finding, those who did so
were the ones who never did anything to as-
sist the cause. Said some of the needy
were too proud to ask for help, teachers
should have the spirit of discernment to
seek them out and minister to their wants.
Urged all to be generous in giving to the
poor and it should be returned to them
seven fold. Gave other excellent
instructions.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said we had learned
many useful lessons in these meetings.
Urged the importance of having uniformity
in our work. Spoke at some length in re-
gard to the funds in the treasury getting
low. The fifty cents due from each society
had not been handed in. Wished to remind
the sisters of this fact that they might act
accordingly.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the undivided interest and unity in the
hearts of the sisters, and of the necessity
of being practical. We should inform our
selves in regard to the best time to set out
mulberry trees, and dwelt on the impor-
tance of advancing the silk industry and
awakening an interest in the same, spoke
of the good it would do in employing
children, and helping the poor.
	President Horne made some closing re-
marks continuing the subject of wheat.
The sisters should have bins made and
store it up, the time was not far distant
when it would be needed. Conference ad-
jorned ’till 2 p. m. Singing “Lord dismiss
us, with Thy blessing,” etc. Benediction
Elizabeth Pixton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne was her Counselor E.
S. Taylor, President Zina D. H. Young
and her counselors Bathsheba W. Smith
and President Angus M. Cannon. Meet-
ing opened by singing, “O say what is
truth,” etc. Prayer by President Angus
M. Cannon. Singing “Our God we raise
to Thee,” etc.
	President Horne in her opening remarks
exhorted the sisters to cease dealing with
outsiders, and sustain and build each other
up. It was unavoidable that our children
should go to school to those not of us, but
mothers should instil into their minds the
principles of the gospel that they may not
be led astray by the influences that surround
them. Spoke of Christian Science and
other evils that exist. Also exhorted those
present to patronize our home institutions.
The Woman’s Store should receive more
patronage in order to make it a success.
Spoke of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
other home journals, and of the importance
of sustaining these industries.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt to endorse all
that had been said we should live in
humility and seek to know the mind and

[Column 3]
will of the Lord. Spoke upon the subject
of home manufacture, and of the impor-
tance of teaching our children to be in-
dustrious, and watching over their interests.
	Sister Elizabeth Pixton thought the in-
structions that had been given were timely.
Continued the subject of home manufacture.
Said we should be thankful for the bless-
ings we enjoy and not complain of hard
times, made other interesting remarks.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt blessed in
istening to what had been said. Urged
the necessity of avoiding extravagance,
and educating our children in habits of
economy and industry. Also spoke upon
the subject of home manufacture.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder expressed her
pleasure in listening to the instruction that
had been given and spoke upon the topics
that had been touched upon by the previous
speakers, said we should not let new
comers get the start of us in the move that
was being made. Spoke further on the-
subject of home industry.
	President Angus M. Cannon addressed
the meeting for a short time. Said he
endorsed all that he had heard. The in-
structions that had been imparted had a
tendency to do good. Spoke at some
length on the duties of wives and mothers,
and encouraged the sisters to go forward in
their good work.
	President Zina D. H. Young made a few
remarks dwelling principally on the im-
portance of fostering industries and em-
ploying our time. Referred again to the
planting of mulberry trees and the making
of our own silk. Encouraged the idea of
knitting and of gathering mustard, and
many other things in which we could use
our lives and energies to the building up of
Zion.
	President M. I. Horne hoped we would
treasure up the good instructions we had
received and be benefited by them, made
other closing remarks. Conference was ad-
journed for thee months. Singing “The
time is far spent,” etc. Benediction by M.
W. Wilcox.
			ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Sec.
		
	SANPETE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the
Spring City Meeting House, Dec. 16th,
L893. President M. A. P. Hyde presiding.
Conference opened by singing, “Prayer is
the soul’s sincere desire,” prayer by Brother
John Frantzen. Singing “For the strength
of the hills we bless thee.” Minutes of
the last conference read. President M. A.
P. Hyde prayed that we would have
a time of rejoicing during conference and
that the Spirit of the Lord would be poured
out upon all present. The branches of the
Relief Society of Fayette, Gunnison,
Sterling, Moroni, Chester, Mt. Pleasant,
Wales, Spring City and Ephraim were
represented, the sisters testifying of the
good that is being done among the poor.
Counselor Sarah Peterson was pleased
with the humble spirit manifested. Spoke
at some length on the storing of grain and
the culture of silk.
	President Canute Peterson advised the
sisters to gather wheat for it will be needed.
said “We have only a few years left until
the prophecies that have been uttered will
be fulfilled. I do not think thirty years
will pass away until all that has been
spoken of will come to pass and that the
earth will be purified from all evil, and that


Christ will reign here and be our King.
May God our Eternal Father bless us in
our associations, for we cannot do without
them. Whenever you pray and you want
it to have power, effect and virtue, ask it in
the name of Jesus Christ.”
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing, “Guide us, O thou great Jehovah”
benediction by Bro. John T. Allred.
			MARY A. F. HANSEN Stake Sec.
Spring City Jan. 15th, 1894.

			MARICOPA STAKE.
Editor Exponent:
	WE held our Relief Society Stake Con-
ference Thursday afternoon, March 15th,
with a full house, all the Wards were
represented; had some good instructions
from both brethren and sisters; good re-
ports from each Ward but I believe that our
Lamanite Sisters had the best report in the
stake. We miss our stake president
Brother C. I. Robson so much, it was so
seldom when he was able that he was not
at his meetings and gave us such good
counsel, but our loss is his gain and he had
been quite a sufferer for many years. Our
Stake Conference commenced Sunday
morning March 18, and closed Monday
afternoon had full houses both days, more
than the house would hold conveniently.
We had good reports from each Ward and
good instructions from the brethren that
spoke. We rather expected some of the
Apostles with us at Conference, but they
failed to get here, hope some of them may
be with us soon.
	Our meeting house is now entirely too
small even for the Sunday School and dur-
ing the winter at our Stake Conference we
are much crowded, we have a Bowery to
use during the warm weather but still we
need a Stake house very much.
	Our Stake Academy has closed and
Brother Broadbent our teacher has a night
school two nights in the week. Some of
our people are getting the Mexico fever
bad,some have gone down there and others
will go in the near future.
	This is a good country, it gets quite
warm during the Summer but it is generally
more healthy then, than during the
Winter. Times are rather dull here now
and money scarce but we suppose from
what we can hear times are as good here
as any where else. We have quite a
number here who are not of our faith but
get along right well. The weather here
for a few days past has been quite cold for
the time of year and for this country.
			Very Respectfully,
						M. E. CROSBY.


118					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARIETTA HOLLEY maintains her pop-
ularity. Her last book, “Samantha at the
World’s Fair,” sold 40,000 copies the first
three weeks after its publication. 
	ANOTHER victory was won in the Massa-
chusetts House of Representatives last
Thursday. The municipal woman suffrage
bill was passed to be engrossed by the
decisive vote of 90 yeas to 79 nays and 28
pairs, making in all 118 to 107. An ad-
ditional section was added to the bill,
providing for a vote of the men at the
November election on the question: “Shall
municipal suffrage be granted to women?”
But the women will have the law, and the
expression will have no legal validity.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the fourteenth Ward, Feb. 10th,
1894, President M. I. Horne presiding.
The congregation sang the hymn: “Oh!
happy souls who pray.” Prayer by Sister
Julia Pack, continued by singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Also
minutes of second and fifteenth Ward
Primary Association.
	President Horne said “I am pleased to be
with you today. My heart rejoices in
listening to the minutes of the Primary As-
sociations. I had not the privilege of at-
tending such meetings when young; but
was always a faithful Sunday School at-
tendant. All these meetings are calculated
as blessings for us. The Relief Society
was organized for the blessing and benefit-
ing of the poor. We come to meeting to
gain spiritual blessing. There are many
temptations to lead our youth away. If
they were faithful to their meetings and
other duties, they would have more power
to resist temptation. We are promised if
we will seek first the Kingdom of God; all
things else will be added unto us. We
should be careful at all times not to speak
evil of, or judge our fellow beings. There
is one above who will judge all. Let us
seek him in prayer continually. The
calamities we read of daily are necessary. 
We must fortify ourselves against all evil.
All are trials, still we can see how well
the Lord has blessed his people, in living up
to the spirit of God; think of the wonderful
work the Prophet Joseph accomplished, and
the many trials he endured. I love to
testify of him. There are not many now
living who have met him face to face.
Much more might be said but I want to hear
from my sisters.
	Counselor E. Webb “I know the spirit
of the Lord is with us, how greatly we are
blessed, in being privileged to come here
in peace, and testify of the goodness of
God to us, his children. If we could realize
that it is not for our much speaking, but
for the humility and meekness of our
hearts, I do think we would pray to our
heavenly Father to keep us humble at all
times. We should prepare ourselves for
our work in the Temple, the attendance is
increasing, which proves there is a wak-
ing up in this great work for our dead.”
Made other good remarks.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul—“I am very much
interested in the Primary Association, my
children have nearly all acted as secretaries
in the Primary Association. I know they
have been greatly benefited by their as-
sociation with the Primaries, I know the
Lord hears and answers our prayers. I
have been healed many times. Have re-
ceived many blessings. The Gift of
Tongues was bestowed upon me, many
years ago in Wales. Sisters I feel that
angels are present with us today.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young—“My thoughts
have dwelt on the subjects touched upon by
my sisters this afternoon. These meetings
were established by President Brigham
Young, for the benefit of the daughters of
Zion and for the blessing of the poor.
This Hall was dedicated and set apart for
these and other meetings. President John
Taylor stood here, he was a martyr to the 
cause of truth. He laid his body down
with bullets in it. If we would read in the
Doctrine and CovenantsSec. fifth and sixth,

[Column 2]
it would be a benefit to us. Let us cling
to the spiritual gifts. Let go some of the
temporal. The more humble we live the
more of the Spirit of God we will enjoy;”
gave other good counsel.
	Sister Sarah Phelps exhorted all present,
to be faithful to their duties and not lose the
spirit of the Lord. Closed by speaking in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Paul.
	Many sisters in the congregation bore
testimonies of the goodness of God to them
when tempted and tried, and of having
been healed by his power. All spoke of
the good Spirit present, desired to con-
tinue faithful, and aid in the building up of
the Kingdom of God. 
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson, made some
excellent remarks, advised those present to
put their trust in the Lord. “Stand upon
your feet and testify of his goodness, my
heart is full of love and peace. I love to
meet with the Saints of God. I think it a
good thing to meet often in sociables. We
dont want to be extravagant in our refresh-
ments. We should be plain and simple in
all our ways.” 
	In her closing remarks President Horne
said “I dont wish to dampen the good
Spirit of the meeting; but there is an item
of business I wish to mention. At the last
meeting of the Board of Directors of the
Woman’s Coop, it was decided to give re-
ports only once a year. We are doing very
well considering the dull times. I know
the Lord has blessed our efforts. We have
not had the support we should have had.
Some seem to think it too small an affair,
will give their patronage to other stores.
They think our stock is too small. We
could carry a much larger stock if we had
the support we should have. I hope my
sisters will consider these things. Be awake
to their duties and sustain all Home In-
dustries. Sister Phelps made a request
that a special prayer be offered for our
missionaries abroad.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang
the Doxology. Beneediction Sister Lydia
D.Alder.
	VILATE YOUNG, Sec. 

	SYNOPSIS of minutes of theSemi-month-
ly Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Saturday Feb 24th, 1894. Counselor
E. J. Stevenson presiding, opened by sing-
ing, “Come come ye saints.” Prayer by
Sister E. Paul. Continued by singing
“Do what is right.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Minutes of
the sixth ward also the fifteenth ward
Primary Associations read by their
respective Secretaries. Secretary asked to
be excused; and President Horne called on
Sister Alder to take the minutes.
	President Horne spoke of the many
blessings we have received, said she had
not been quite as well as usual, but hoped
that the sisters would arise and bear testi-
mony. 
	Sister Snow spoke of being sleepless at
night, but that her mind would constantly
take up her life from the present time and
carry her backward to her youth. Said she
had done this so much, that she come to
think that her Heavenly Father, was show-
ing her, her long life and bringing things to
her remembrance. Why she did not know
Whether because she was soon to go and
commence a new life, or not. She felt 
thankful for the restrospection and desired to
to be faithful during life.


President Horne introduced Sister
Townsend, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Cache Stake who said “I love to mingle
with my sisters. I feel to rejoice in the
work of this church. I desire to so order
my life as to gain the approval of my
Heavenly Father. I had good times in
these meetings years ago, while I lived in
Salt Lake City. I have noticed with
pleasure the many young people who attend
Professor Talmage’s Theology class. I
hope that we will be able to save them with
a glorious salvation.” Gave other good in-
struction.
	President Horne spoke of a visit of her-
self and President Z. D. H. Young, to the
Relief Society at Lehi, where, they had a
delightful meeting. Some of the brethren
met with them. Spoke of a brother who
testified that just before he was called on a
mission, he had felt to go to the Relief
Society meetings and after he had gone in-
to the world, how thankful he was that he
was able to tell them of these meetings of
the sisters. Teachers meeting was held in
the evening, and never before, had the veil
seemed so thin between this world and the
next as now, others testified to this also,
she closed by saying, “May God give us
strength to do our work, and come back in-
to His presence.” A sister in the congrega-
tion bore testimony of the power of prayer.
Sister Riddle bore a faithful testimony.
	Sister Morris spoke some on Book of
Mormon history. A Sister in the con-
gregation testified to having been healed
many times by the power of God.
Sisters Bidgood, Hazon and Sister E. Brown
bore faithful testimonies. Sisters sang a
hymn. Sister Morris of the 8th, Ward,
“I pray that my faith will be strengthened,
and that in the end it will be well with all
of us.” Sisters Forsythe, Mary Silver, a
sister in the congregation and Sister Work-
man, each bore a faithful testimony of the
goodness and power of God. Sister Tate
of Tooele also bore testimony and Presi-
dent Horne made closing remarks. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks. Sang “We
thank thee O, God for a prophet.” Bene-
diction Sister Maria Wilcox.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
Women teach us repose, civility, and
dignity.—Voltaire.
	I CAN drive a coach and six through
every act of parliament.—Daniel O’Con-
nell. 
	IT is one of the gravest mistakes in the
world to be looking for great opportunities.
	CARRY the radiance of your soul in your
face; let the world have the benefit of it— 
Fox.
	BEWARE of the vicious man who pro-
poses to reform his life on the installment
plan.
	MERE compromising, covering up is not
peacemaking. The bold assertion of the
right is peacemaking.
	Whatever our place, allotted to us by
Providence, that for us is the post of honor
and duty, God estimates us not by the
position we are in, but by the way in which 
we fill it.— Edwards.
	I HAVE lived to know that the great se-
cret of human happiness is this: Never suf-
fer your energies to stagnate. The old


adage of “too many irons in the fire” con-
veys an untruth. You cannot have too
many—poker, tongs, and all—keep them
all going.—Adam Clarke.
	FILIAL obedience is the first and greatest
requisite of a state; by this we become
good subjects to our emperors, capable of
behaving with subordination to our
superiors, and grateful dependents on
heaven; by this we become fonder of mar-
riage, in order to be capable of exacting
obedience from others in our turn; by this
we become good magistrates; for early
submission is the truest lesson to those who
would learn to rule. By this the whole
state may be said to resemble one family,
of which the emperor is the protector,
father, and friend—Goldsmith.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. URSULA N. GESTERFIELD, of New
York is the author of the much discussed
novel, “The Woman who Dares.”
	DR. SARAH C. HALL, of Fort Scott Kan.,
has been elected President of the County
Medical Association. She has also received
the appointment of Medical Examiner for
the Degree of Honor.
	IT was eminently appropriate that the
youngest and least experienced member of
the Massachusetts House of Representatives
should make the most elaborate speech
against equal rights for women. Young
Mr. Dallinger, of Cambridge, is just out of
college, and will probably live to grow
wiser.
	MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD has written
a biography of her mother, Mary T. Hill
Willard. She has been assisted in the
work by her kinswoman. Mrs. Minerva
Grace Norton, and Lady Henry Somerset
has written an introduction. The book
will be entitled, “A Great Mother.” It
will be issued by the Woman’s Temperance
Publishing Association of Chicago.
	MRS. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY lately re-
signed her position as corresponding sec-
retary of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, and nominated Mrs.
Ellen Battelle Dietrick as her successor.
This nomination was confirmed by a major-
ty of the Business Committee and Mrs.
Avery was made auditor in Mrs. Dietrick’s
place.
	A LETTER has just been received from
Mrs. Elizabeth Andrew and Dr. Kate
Bushnell, on their way to Maulmain, Bur-
ma. The ladies remained in India but a
few days, during which they spoke before
the Methodist Conference by invitation of
Bishop Thoburn, and had an interview
with Pundita Ramabai, whose school for
high-caste Hindu widows at Poona is now
housed in excellent buildings and doing
well. Mrs. Thoburn is president of a
thriving W. C. T. U. in Calcutta, a meet-
ing of which was called during the visit of
the White Ribbon missionary, Mrs. Hauser,
of Lucknow, president of the India W. C.
T. U. She has succeeded in establishing
twenty local auxiliaries, and spreading
through the press and private cor-
respondence much information about the
society.


IN MEMORIAM.

	SISTER SARAH B. CARTER FOSS died at East
Bountiful, Davis county, at 8:45 a. m., March 4th,
1894, of old age. She was the daughter of Ezra
F. Carter, and was born at Limerick, Maine, Sep-
tember 30, 1800, and was therefore 93 years, 5
months and 4 days old at the time of her demise.
With her husband, Calvin Foss, and Sister Phebe
Carter Woodruff, she was baptized by Elder
John F. Boynton, in September, 1834, and in
February, 1835, Brother Foss died, leaving Sister
Foss the responsibility of the care of seven
children, five of whom were baptized by Elder
Woodruff and came to Utah in his company in
1850. They settled in the Fourteenth ward of
this city, where Sister Foss resided for 36 years.
She was 34 years of age when she was left a
widow. By her industry, frugality and economy
she reared her seven children, who grew to
manhood and womanhood. They all honored
and revered her for her amiable example and
devotion, and in return she shared the confidence
and love of not only her own children but of her
grandchildren and great grandchildren. She had
38 grand-children and 72 great-grand-children.
	Sister Foss’ home in Maine, was the home of
the Elders when on missions in that vicinity; and
many of those who were on their way emigrating
to Zion, remained over at her hospitable home to
rest and make further preparations for the long
journey in covered wagons over land.
	Sister Foss was one of the first Teachers in the
Relief Society at its organization in the 14th,
Ward, August, 24th, 1869. On July 31st, she was
chosen First Counselor to Sister Phebe Woodruff,
who was appointed President of the Teachers of
the above Society at its reorganization, after the
move South and continued Counselor until
February 1885 when she resigned on account of
illhealth.
	The funeral of this veteran saint was held in
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms March 8th,
the services were conducted by Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor and the speakers were President Wilford
Woodruff, President Jos. F. Smith, Apostle F. D.
Richards President Geo. Q. Cannon also Sister
Zina D. H. Young who in her remarks referred
to its being the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Phebe Woodruff. Each of the speakers
bore testimony to the diligence, endurance and
faithfulness of the deceased her many admirable
qualities as a woman and a saint. The funeral
was largely attended by the friends and neighbors
of Sister Foss, who had enderred herself by her
amiability and uprightness of character to all with
whom she was associated.
COM.

	THE way was long and tedious
	And the wind blew loud and fast
	Huge mountains rose before thee
	Dark waters went surging past
	But thou did’st wade through the waters,
	Clinging to the Iron Rod
	And thou did’st climb the mountains
	With thine eyes fixed on thy God.

	Now, the way is smooth and fairer
	The silvery streams glide by
	And step by step advancing
	Thou shalt reach the throne on high
	The dark waters and the mountains
	Have all vanished into air
	And thou dost know the reason
	Why great sorrows thou should’st bear.

	The mysteries of the Father
	Are much plainer uuto thee
	His wisdom and His justice,
	Methinks thou now can’st see
	Thy rest is sweet and glorious
	Thy companions fair and bright
	Oh! listen to the greeting
	Praise God! she’s won the fight.
RUTH M. FOX.


OBITUARIES.

FANNY M. ALLEN HUNTINGTON.

	FANNY M. ALLEN HUNTINGTON was born Oct.
26th, 1810 at Jefferson County,State of New York
and was the daughter of General Clark Allen and
Martha Thompson, She was a direct descendent
of General Ethan Allen, she joined the church


[Column 1]
in the early days with her husband the late
Dimick B. Huntington, they having endured all
the persecutions of the Saints driven from their
home again and again to seek new ones. She
accompanied her husband in the famous Mormon
Battalion there enduring all the hardships of a
soldier’s life and arriving in the valley of the Great
Salt Lake four days behind the Pioneers, here
having all to endure that human beings could
endure. She was four months without tasting
bread before her youngest daughter was born
living on roots and anything that would sustain
life. She helped pioneer the new settlements
south, being in Provo during the Indian trouble
there, not knowing what moment herself and
family would have to be sacrificed to the wily
and cruel savages; also at Manti in the early days,
from there returned to Salt Lake City in 1851 here
she joined the missionary field with her husband
among the Indians, where it required all the
patience and faith that only a Latterday Saint can
acquire but never doubting the mercies and
goodness of God, and His promises to the faith-
ful; was at the first organization of the Relief
Society by Joseph Smith the Prophet when Emma
Smith was elected president. Sister Huntington
was the mother of eight children all of whom
had preceded her to the other shore except
a son and daughter who remain. She went
with her daughter Sister Julia Mellen out to
Pleasant Green in 1890, where she remained up
the time of her death, which occured Dec. 14 1894,
she passed peacefully away, surrounded by kind
friends, and all that loving hands could do for
her to make her last moments happy.
Sister Zina D. H. Young her sister in law, was
with Sister Huntington much of the time during
her last illness, and heard her fervent and earnest
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel and also
witnessed her patience in suffering the pains of
mortality. To her, death must indeed have been ,
a happy release, and those beautiful words of
Elizabeth Barrett Browning seem singularly ap-
propriate.
	“He giveth His beloved sleep,
		Sleep soft beloved! we sometimes say,
		Who have no time to charm away
	Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep;
		But never doleful dream again.
		Shall break the happy slumbers; when
	He giveth His beloved sleep.

Editor Exponent:
IT is my painful duty to inform you of the
death of our beloved President Harriet Amelia
Lee, after a long and lingering illness she died
January 21st, 1894. Sister Lee was born Nov.
25th 1831, in Rutland Co. State of Vermont. and
was the daughter of Clarissa and Daniel Carter,
her parents becoming members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, at an early date
moved to Kirtland, Ohio, and later to Missouri,
and from there to Nauvoo, Ill. She experienced
all the hardships encountered by the Saints, also
resided for a time on little Mosquito Creek, which 
is near Winter Quarters: at this place, she be-
came acquainted with William H. Lee and was
married on the 11th of March 1849. She was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She came to Utah in 1850, living at Cottonwood
until 1855, when the family moved to Bountiful
where they resided until 1873, then moved to
Woodruff, Rich Co. Her vast experience and
willingness to do good together with her natural
abi ity made her a fit leader in the social sphere
in which she moved. She was president of the
Relief Society, counselor to the president of the
Primary and a Sunday school teacher at Wood
ruff up to the time of her death. Her death
was caused by heart failure, the funeral services
were held in the meeting house at Woodruff,
where the largest audience assembled that has
ever met in that house. The remains were
interred in the Bountiful cemetery.
	She leaves a husband, six children, twenty
eight grand-children and one great grand-
child to mourn her loss. 
								COM.

IN MEMORIAM.

MARY MOOR SCHULTHESS was born in Zurich,
Swiizerland, April 8th, 1839, was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in 1865, emigrated to Utah in 1879, and died Feb.
24th, 1894. While in her native land, Sister
Schulthess an[-] another sister, who were the only
members of the church in the immediate neighbor-
hood, traveled twelve miles to meeting on foot,
and many times fasting.
She was alone for thirteen years but she always

[Column 2]
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the
gospel, and through her zeal and integrity, all of
her family, were added to the church, and some
others also.
	After coming to Utah, she labored faithfully as
a teacher in the First Ward Relief Society which
position she honorably filled until death removed
her from our midst, and she was called by our
Heavenly Father to more extensive usefulness in
a higher sphere.
	Just previous to her death, she bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the gospel, and exhorted
each member of her family, to be diligent in the
performance of their duty, and desired that they
do not grieve for her, as she was willing and
anxious to labor on the other side of the vail.
	“Oh! call it not death, it is life begun
	For the waters are passed, the home is won;
	The ransomed spirit hath reached the shore,
	Where they weep and suffer and sin no more
	She is safe in her Father’s Home above,
	In the place prepared by her Savior’s love.”
	Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has re-
leased our dearly beloved sister, from the cares
and sufferings of this world, and extended her
field of labor, therefore be it
	Resolved, that while we sympathize with the
bereaved family, and feel that we have lost an ef-
ficient worker, yet we realize that our loss will be
her gain and we feel to humbly bow to the will of
Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved that we emulate her noble examples
of charity and patience, and
	Resolved that we give a copy of these resolu-
tions to the bereaved family, that a copy be sent
to the EXPONENT office for publication, an[-] that
they be copied in the record of our Society.
	MARGARET F. STEEL, President.
	AMY A. THOMAS Secretary,
	ANNIE L. KAMMERLE, Asst. Sec.
First Ward, Salt Lake City March 6th, 1894.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FUNERAL REFORMS.
	A DISPATCH from London says,—One of
the largest conferences in the interest of
funeral reform ever held opened at West-
minister. It is under the auspices of
the Burial, Funeral, and Mourning Reform
Association, and its object is to advocate the
exercises of economy and simplicity in all
funeral appurtenances, and the disuse of
crape scarfs, feathers, velvet trappings and
similar emblems of mourning. It is also
sought to create a sentiment in favor of the
early interment of bodies, and the use of.
coffins of such material as will rapidly de-
cay after burial, on the ground that this is
in accordance with the laws of nature and
avoids sanitary evils, while the practice of
burying in almost imperishable coffins is
fraught with great danger. The conference
will consider the feasibility of securing the
aid of Parliament in the direction of secur-
ing the passage of a legislative enactment
regulating funerals.


PARENTS and guardians of children of
school age and persons who own taxable
property—not necessarily tax payers, as two
hundred and fifty dollars worth of property
is exempt—are voters for members of School
Boards in Michigan.
	The requirements are the same for wo-
men as for men. In the country, in vil-
lages, in Flint and some others, incorpor-
ated city registration is not required. As
all jewelry (gold, silver, brass, etc.) and all
musical instrutnents, (jewsharps, mouth
organs, etc.) and money at interest (one
cent or more) are assessed as personal
property every person of legal age and
residence may vote. Women may be
elected members of country, village and
city School Boards and they may be elected
Township School Inspectors and County
Superintendent of Schools. Four hundred
and thirty-seven women voted April 2nd in
Flint, Michigan.


MRS. LIZZIE H. SHIPP, professor and
practical teacher of obstetrics, will open a
school of obstetrics and nursing in Sal
Lake City the first Monday in May. A
half yearly course will be taught for the
unprecedented low terms of ten dollars.
All persons desiring to avail themselves of
this opportunity will please consult me by
letter or in person at No. 34 S. 7th, East
Street, Salt Lake City.
DUNFORD’S
	Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
	FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday January 29th and continuing for
				30 days.
	DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
		57 SOUTH MAIN ST.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
		The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, April
16, 1894.
Office: 34 East 5th South, 
	Telephone 383.
Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, Iates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No.41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
	Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
	Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Will begin her next Class April 9th. Reviews
given to former students free of charge. For
particulars enquire personally or by letter at No.
18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 22. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15 AND MAY 1, 1894. No. 16.


CONTENTS:
	AN Etching—Anna D. Thrall. Woman’s
Suffrage Column. Notes and News. Some
Pictures at the Art Palace in the White City—
Alfred Lambourne. Birthday Party—C. Y. Pack.
Parowan Stake—Jane Parry Mackleprang.
Question—Mary A. W. Pratt. Silk Question—
M A. Till. National Council of Women of the
United States—Rachel Foster Avery. In Rural
England—A Story. Woman’s Patriotism—Flo.
R. S. Reports. In Memoriam—Com. Obituary
—Sarah S. Reese.
	EDITORIAL:—Relief Society Conference.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The Origin of Life—E. R. Snow.
Jesse W. Fox—R. M. F. Nabbie—E. R. Shipp.


THE ORIGIN OF LIFE. 

	(Written for A. M. Blanchard, by Zion's
favorite poetess after her return from Palestine.)

MAN’S tide of existence is fearfully changed—
From God and from nature, how widely es-
	tranged!
Vice dandled by fashion, mocks Nature’s de-
	signs,
And existence is lessened as virtue declines.
We wake into being—how hopeless at birth!
How short, at the longest, our stay on the earth!
Too short to develop (we merely begin)
The germ of the Deity planted within.
As a father transmits from the father to son,
So God, our Creator, our Father, has done;
No attribute God in His glorified form 
Possesses, but man, too, inherits the germ.
Though frail and imperfect unlearned and unwise,
He’s endowed with capacities needful to rise
From an embryo state, onward, upward—at
	length—
To a fulness of knowledge, of wisdom and
	strength.
He’s his own acting agent with freedom to
	choose—
With power to accept, and with power to refuse,
With a future before him, the sequel of life,
To which this is a preface, with consequence
	rife.
He should learn how to strengthen this life’s
	feeble chain,
And bring back the longevity rightful to gain
Develop ability, greatness and worth,
By improving himself, and improving the earth.
He should squander no talent, no health and no
	time,
All, all are important—age, manhood and prime;
As we sow we shall reap—what we earn we’ll
	receive—
We'll be judged by our work—not by what we
	believe.
We’re now laying foundations for what we shall
	be,
For life’s current extends to Eternity’s sea;
And whatever debases, ennobles, refines,
By our acts, we imprint in indelible lines.
We’re the offspring of God. We should never
	degrade
The form which at first in His image was made;
If we honor our beings and callings while here,
We’ll secure an admission to life’s higher sphere.
In the likeness of Deity gracefully formed—
With His own noble attributes richly adorned;
For a grand immortality man is designed—
Perfected in body and perfect in mind.
	ELIZA R SNOW.


[Column 1]
AN ETCHING.

	IT was a bright, clear morning in the
Wasatch range. The lofty, Alpine valley
near the head of the canyon, high up among
the peaks, lay gleaming in the morning sun.
White stemmed quaking aspens stood out
in sharp relief against a background of 
dark pines. Their pale green leaves, shot
through with golden sunbeams, trembled
lightly in the gentle breeze which came like
God's breath from the cool gulches and the
windy heights. Above and beyond the
fringe of trees stretched an unbroken for-
est, and still beyond, yet in the near distance,
rose rocky cliffs and snowy summits, out-

[picture of Lake Annette]

lined in grey and white against the deep
blue sky. The deeper blue of the little
glacial lake, a natural reservoir of icy crystal
water, fed by everlasting snows, rock-
bound on every side, and imprisoned from
below by a confused barrier of broken gran-
ite, dimpled in the morning breeze, and
smiled in a faint and fitful way wherever
the sunbeams glinted here and there over
its fretted surface.
	The sparse yet vital, wild life, peculiar
to high elevations within the timber limit,
made itself heard and seen on every hand.
In every forest opening a swiftly flitting
wing; from every thicket an occasional
clear bird-note; across the little waste of
broken rock the stealthy snake-like move-
ment of the weasel, and from its remote re-
cesses the peculiar, plaintive chirp of the
little rock-rabbit. 

[Column 2]
	Out of the forest comes the far-piercing
cry of a brood of young hawks quarreling in
their nest at the top of some towering red-
spruce; two slowly circling specks on the
sky just above yonder rocky peak show to
the practised eye where, in a blasted pinion
tree, a pair of eagles guard their eyrie; and
upon every sunny Alp, in every dark glen,
by every steep mountain trail, along the
banks of every snow-fed streamlet, and
over the little open valley, smiling in the
sunlight, gleams of color and faint, rare
odors revealed the presence of countless
flowers of a thousand kinds. Above all, a
tonic air, like wine, vital and exhilarating,
giving health, strength, hardihood and joy.
	Along the side of the moun-
tain, and across the Divide,
winds a steep and rocky path.
Up this trail a young man
and a maiden were slowly
toiling, stopping now and then
to recover breath and gaze out
upon the wonderful world
below. To the fisherman,
angling for rainbow trout in
his little boat on the lake,
the trail is but a slender
thread drawn diagonally up-
ward across the face of the
overhanging mountain and
the figures of the young man
and maiden appear like two
small beads moving along this
thread, so close together as
to seem scarcely separable.
But the fisherman has seen
them before, wandering along
a wood-road, hand in hand-
he, straight, strong and stur-
dy as the mountain pine; she,
slender, sweet and graceful as
the wild columbine nodding
to her on its tall stem as she 
stooped to pluck it.
	Was it the golden light of
the early morning on that of
early love that shone in the
faces of these two?
	For them the world was
new and life was new, and
both were full of brightness
and beauty, of poetry and
promise. They paused just
where a fall of rock had car-
ried away the young trees from the outer
edge of the trail, thus affording an unbrok-
en outlook. Far below them lay the silver
lake, fringed with its dark and sheltering
pines, and on its surface quietly rocked the
boat in which the fisherman still stood cast-
ing for the coy and fickle trout. Beyond
the lake stretched a broad Alpine meadow,
carpeted with young wild grass, and dotted
at its farthermost edge with now and then a
rustic cottage, half hidden in a clump of
aspens or of pines. Cattle were grazing
here and there and a ribbon of blue, lined
with light green, marked the course of the
willow-fringed mountain stream. Beyond
the meadow, at a point where the hidden
trail left the forest and came out upon a
wooded road, a long line of pack mules and
horses came slowly into view, and the faint
tinkle of their bells rose up from the dis


tance blended with the shouts of happy
children.
	It was as if the two lovers stood above
and apart from this little world, and looked
down upon it, even as they looked out upon
life, through a clear and crystal glass.
	Broad, beautiful, bright, and bathed in
the atmosphere of youthful hope and antici-
pation, so stretched this lovely scene, and
so lay life before them.
	Above on the mountain trail stood the
girl who had once, her lover by her side,
looked out upon a little world of bright-
ness, warmth and beauty.
	Now, the sun was hidden, the sky grey
and gloomy, the Alpine meadows sodden
with recent rains, the peaks shrouded in
vast veils of vapor which lifted in places
only to grow heavier and darker elsewhere.
The white stemmed aspens now seemed
like ghosts, gleaming wierdly
through the driving mist, while
the old, dead trees, blasted by
lightning or blackened by for-
est fires, stood like unburied
skeletons, and stretched forth
uncanny arms toward the
cloud wraiths; flying above
them. Flashes of lightning
still threw an occasional lurid
light over the dark pictures,
while peals of thunder rolled
down the gulches and shook
the crags and peaks to their
very foundations. At the
feet of the girl lay the scat-
tered columbines, beaten from
their stems by the violence of
the storm.
	White-faced and desolate
she gazed gloomily at the dark
lake beneath her, or at the
cloud fringes clinging to the
mountain summits, or from
time to time glanced fearfully
among the sombre pines of
the surrounding forest, whose
murmuring filled her with a
nameless dread, as if it were
the requiem of her past hopes.
At length she turned timidly
to retrace her steps, but even
as she descended the lovely
trail, the cloud bank began to
lift, and the familiar outlines
of the mountains came into
view. Behind the peaks and
along the Divide, appeared a
narrow ribbon of yellow sky,
which widened to a glowing
sea of glass, upon which floated cloud islands
of a soft and pearly grey. It was as if the
sky were filled with the wings of doves.
The chill wind died to a refreshing breeze,
which like the breath of God came again
from the cool gulches and the windy heights,
laden with balsam from the pines, and
bringing with it health and hope, mean-
while the driving mist had spread out in
long, vaporous sheets or broken into filmy
streamers which again widened, divided,
grew every moment thinner until before the
maiden had crossed the meadow and
reached the rustic cottage, her home dur-
ing the short, mountain summer, the last,
lingering cloudlet had dissolved in the
clear and crystal atmosphere, and the little
Alpine valley was again a world of bright-
ness and of beauty .ANNA D. THRALL.

[Picture of WASATCH BY MOONLIGHT appears in the right]


WOMANS EXPONENT


THE National Woman's Press Associa-
tion will soon be here.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

UTAH W.S.A.
	THE Semi Annual Convention of the
Territorial W. S. A. was held April 4th,
1894 in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, the
president Mrs. E. B. Wells in the chair.
Singing by the Suffrage Choir, prayer by
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young.
	Mrs. E. J. McFarlane, Mrs. Lucy A. 
Clark, Mrs. Hilliard, Mrs. M. A. Grover
and Mrs. Louissa Jones delegates from Salt
Lake, Davis, Weber, Juab and Beaver
Counties represented their respective as-
sociations.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards and Mrs. C. E.
Dye gave short addresses in favor of suf-
frage, Dr. Ellen B. Eerguson in an able
address showed the advantages to be
gained by making suffrage universal. 

	Mrs. E. B. Wells made brief remarks
pertaining to suffrage of an explanatory
nature and the meeting adjourned. 
	An executive session was held on the 
morning of the same day in the EXPONENT
Office. Mrs. Phebe V. Beatie in the chair. 
Business pertaining to the various organiza-
tions was discussed and transacted. 
	NELLIE LITTLE, Sec. 

WEBER CO. W. S. A. 
Editor Exponent:
	THE Woman's Suffrage Association of 
Weber County met in Ogden City on 
Tuesday, February 27th, 1894, for the pur-
pose of effecting a reorganization. Mrs.
Emily Richards of Salt Lake City was 
present and acted as chairman until the 
election of officers. The following officers
were elected - Mrs. Janie Nelsen, President; 
Mrs. Hilliard, First Vice President; Miss
Rose Canfield Second Vice President; 

[Column 2]
Mrs. Hendershort, Third Vice President;
Miss Aggie Herrick, Corresponding Sec-
retary; Miss Imogen Wilson Recording
Secretary; Miss Hattie Brown, Treasurer.
Members of Executive Board—Aggie
Herrick Chairman, Minnie Farr, Janie
West, Lizzie Anderson, Maggie Chambers,
Mercy Burton, Annie D. Taylor: Sarah 
West and Aggie Herrick as Auditors.
	After the organization was completed
Mrs. Emily Richards spoke very interest-
ingly on matters pertaining to Woman's 
Suffrage. Meeting adjourned for one 
month.
	AGGIE HERRICK, Cor. Sec.
Ogden Utah, April 10th, 1894.

S. L. CO. 
	MINUTES of W. S. A. held March 19th,
at Mrs. McCune's parlors. President
McFarlane in the chair. Exercises con-
ducted by second Vice President E. M.
Price. Sang "Do what is right." Prayer
by Louisa Badger, sang "Columbia's
Daughters." Roll called, minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	Speech by President McFarlane, "our
text is Suffrage," suggested that we make
friends of the men, "it will be through 
them that we get our rights. Ter. First
Vice President Emily S. Richards, gave an
eloquent lecture, on Woman Suffrage,
showing that it is only right and just that
we have equal rights with man, she also
read a very excellent article entitled, "Why
our daughters should be educated." Mrs.
McCune then favored the meeting with a
very pleasing recitation. Ter. President
E. B. Wells then addressed us. Thought
the Legislature, had done well in some
respects. They had tried to favor the sik
industry but the Governor refused to sign 
the bounty bill. The Governor had signed
the memorial to Congress asking that we
have the franchise restored, also a memorial
asking that the Woman's Industrial Home
be given the women of Utah for a Wo-
man's Hospital. Thought some were very
willing to help the ladies, many ladies have
not the moral courage to face opposition,
would like to see the meetings held in the
wards, had a message sent to her that there
would be a plank placed in the statehood
platform for woman suffrage. Dr. Ferguson
read a clipping explaining women's voting
in New Zealand, when women have the
suffrage they will not trade their votes.
Song by Miss Fay McCune, excellently
rendered, encored and she sang again.
Meeting adjourned 'till April.
	M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS ANNE WHITNEY, the sculptor, has
completed a bust of Keats in marble,
which is to be placed in the parish church
of Hampstead London, as a memorial from
the American and English lovers of the
poet.
	MISS JULIA KEMP WEST, of Richmond,
Staten Island, N. Y.,  has just entered upon
her duties as school commissioner. She
has made Miss Nellie M. Ford her private
secretary.
	MISS JOSEPHINE RAND, of Boston, has
composed a “Song of Labor” and set the
words to the music of “Marching Through
Georgia.” It will be sung in Boston
for the first time at the reunion of the
Working Girl’s Clubs, in May.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JESSE W. FOX.

	TO THE MEMORY OF OUR BELOVED FATHER,

Peacefully, calmly, we laid him to rest
	In his low, narrow bed in robes of the blest,
Sadly and lonely, we leaned o’er his bier,
	All tenderly, lovingly dropping a tear.
Noble and dutiful all through his life,
	So tender and gentle, a stranger to strife
Brave in affection, yet humble and mild,
	Affectionate, faithful and pure as a child.
Kindly and friendly to all whom he knew
	An honor to God, to his kindred most true,
A man among men, a friend of the poor,
	Hosanna to God! His salvation is sure.
Methinks I see the bright beam in his eye,
	And his beautiful smile as loved ones drew nigh
To help him across to the silv’ry shore,
	To joy in his presence, to leave him no more.
Great is his glory, most brilliant his crown
	He sought not for riches, for fame or renown
Unselfish he lived and lamented he died
	Peace was his motto and the gospel his pride.
No need of an herald his good deeds to tell,
	in the hearts of his friends his mem’ry shall
		dwell,
His name shall be blessed through ages to come
	The heavens shall smile on so goodly a son.
	R. M. F.


NABBIE.

I KNEW thee, fair spirit in life’s early bloom,
	Ere thoughts of life’s sorrows or death’s
		silent tomb
Had entered thine innocent heart.
	When father and mother and kindred so true
Sought fondest devotion to lavish on you
	And purest affection impart.

And I knew thee again as queen of thy home,
	That altar celestial of histories tome
Where hopes find truest fruition;
	Thy being enshrined in the heart of thy hus-
		band,
And calling thee blessed the voices of children
	Making of earth an elysian.

I saw  thee again—O, wondrous transition
	Passing from earth to immortal condition—
In raiment of ermine and roses.
	Thy beautiful form so cold and so silent,
The casket was here but the jewel was absent,
	In Heaven thy spirit rejoices.
								E. R. Shipp.


[Column 1]
SOME PICTURES AT THE ART
	PALACE IN THE WHITE
			CITY.

	NORWAY, land of the ancient Viking, of
Olaf the cliff-scaler, and Olaf the Saint,
may not be important in art, yet she sends
us wholesome pictures, such as might be
expected from a country peopled by men
and women in whom the sentiments of
home-love and religion are strong.
Mountainous and with a coast washed by
the Northern seas, we have a preponderance
of wild, landscape and marine. The her-
ring-fishery; the fos; the village crowded
between the feet of glaciered crags and the
deep fjord; Lofoten, bleak Islands of the
Arctic—place of the Maelstrom—the Nor-
wegian artist paints with simple pride.
“Raftsund,” by Normann, is a specific
example evolved by honesty from crude
art standards.
	Of large canvases England sends not one.
“The Roll Call,” “The Last Muster,”
“Hercules wrestling with Death for the

[Column 2]
Body of Alcestes," are pictures whose size
is at variance with the importance of their
subjects. Surely of the art of yesterday
if we must place it there so soon, “The
Roll Call,” by Lady Butler, is a picture
that will be cherished for many a to-mor-
row. The bravery of a brave nation’s
soldiers is shown without a touch of vanity.
. In the school of elegance, Sir Frederick
Leighton leads. “The Garden of the
Hesperides,”
	“Daughters three,
	That sing about the golden tree,”
seems to end the possibilities in euphony of
line and color. “Requiescat,” by Briton
Riviere, carries us into the region of
Tennysonian heroics. George H. Mason
evokes delicious poetry from the youth of
the nineteenth century. His lovers return-
ing from the fields, in “The Harvest
Moon,” his “Girls dancing on the Sea-
shore," breathe a love as ingenuous, an in-
nocent as sweet, as any of the Golden
Age.
	England has never lacked for watchers of
the sea and sky. Henry Moore is the latest
devotee. With him impressionism and
knowledge go hand in hand. “Morning
Bright, ” is a study in azure. The blue sky
arches over the blue sea, the waves glide
rhythmically and all is joyous. Air, grace,
out-door-feeling—these are the artists’
aims. Linnell, on the contrary, takes us
back to studio traditions. “Storm in
Autumn,” is grand and dramatic, the tones
are rich but conventional, the sky a memory
triumph.
	Sir J. Everett Millais—Geo. Frederick
Watts, these two masters give us four mir-
acles of art: “The Ornithologist,” “Sweet
Emma Moreland” and “Love and Death,”
“Love and Life.” Millais paints as no one
has painted before. He seeks popularity
and we give him applause. He touches
with genius the narrow prettiness of English
home life and makes it classic. The cher-
ub, who with wide-open eyes,looksat the dead
bird in the old enthusiast’s hands—who but
Millais would have painted her so well?
Since the prim little maid we saw in “The
Minuet,” he has done nothing better. True
to his theory of woman’s place in art, as a
thing to be loved, he has painted “Sweet
Emma Moreland”—ripe-lipped, violet-
eyed, dainty-limbed; a sweet adjustment
between the spirit and the flesh.
	In Watt’s grand allegories we see Love,
his wings outstretched, standing amid
roses—powerless to bar the steps of the
veiled shadow. Life—her face radiant with
surprise and joy—led by Love up the steep,
stony path to the mountain’s summit.
	Of pictures from other nations we have,
from Holland, Josef Israel’s masterful
“Alone in the World;” from Germany,
Garbiel Max’ psychological study, “Kather-
ina Emerich” from Italy, Augusto
Corelli’s, “Thanksgiving”an evening on the
Campagna of Rome. France, it seems, has
not thought fit to put forth her strength.
She sends large canvases, to be sure, but
few important works. In the United
States Loan Exhibit are fine examples of
three of her most individualized artists—
“Near Barbijon,” by that disciple of the
forest, Theodore Rosseau "After the Bath,’’
“The Man with the Hoe,” “Gleaners,”
by Jean Francois Millet and “Dance of the
Nymphs,” “Orpheus” “Environs of
Villa’d’ Avray,” by Jean Baptiste Corot.
				ALFRED LAMBOURNE.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	A VERY enjoyable affair took place here,
at Kamas, on the twelfth inst., in honor of
one of the pioneer sisters, Sister Ruth M.
Pack, Counselor to the President of the
Relief Society of the Stake, the occasion
being the lady’s seventy-second birthday.
About 7 p. m. a large number of relatives
and friends assembled at Pack & Rambert’s
hall, bearing with them the many good
things necessary for a grand feast.
	Two long tables were quickly laid and
spread with substantials and dainties in
abundance and as the aged lady was
escorted into the midst of her friends,
Kamas Brass Band burst into a lively air,
and the many friends of “Aunt Ruth”
crowded about her with good words and
congratulations. After the supper, to
which a hundred and seventy-five sat down,
speeches were made, in which a glowing
tribute was paid to the sterling qualities
and faithfuluess of the honored lady; to
which she replied in a few earnest words of
thanks. Several nice presents were also
presented to her, after which dancing was
participated in by young and old ’till a late
hour.
	Altogether the affair was a success and
the Relief Society ladies who had the affair
in charge, did themselves proud. The
company separated,hoping that Sister Pack
would see many, many happy returns.
						C. Y. PACK.


PAROWAN STAKE.

Editor Exponent:—
	A LONG time has elapsed since we have
taken the privilege of writing. Having just
held a Relief Society Stake Conference in
this place we thought a few items might be
interesting. Our Conferences are held suc-
cessively in the five different wards com-
prising the Parowan Stake. The meetings
were addressed by quite a number of our
sisters. Many referring to their past and
what they endured for the sake of their re-
ligion; exhorted parents to be diligent in
their duties to their families and encourage
their sons and daughters to attend to the
different organizations instituted for their
benefit. Reference was also made to the
growing interest taken in music by our
young people and the hope of seeing it
encouraged as much as possible. Our
Primaries ought to be well encouraged: they
being the foundation for other organizations
as the little ones grow older.
	The Conference of our little ones held
here showed the great interest taken in
them, by their different presidents. Great
credit is due these sisters as well as the
children. The presidency of the different
branch societies of this Stake are alive to
their duties, the reports being quite en-
couraging. A great deal of good is done
in assisting and comforting those in need.
One thing we might all improve in is at-
tending to our meetings a little better in
our own wards, showing by our presence as
well as deeds we are anxious to sustain
and encourage our leaders. Our presiding
brethren by their presence as well  as good
words strive to encourage the sisters in
their labors, always appreciating their help
and acknowledging the same.
	Ever hoping for the success of your in-
teresting little paper. 
	JANE PARRY MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15 AND MAY 1, 1894.


[Column1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this City, on Thursday April 5th,
1894—Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding
her Counselors Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Mrs. B. W. Smith and Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, were present also the Treasurer
Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. B. Wells
Secretary.
	There were many representative women
in the upper stand from the several stakes
of Zion, and the congregation was quite
large for the morning session. Exercises
commenced with singing “Lord we come
before thee now,” and prayer was offered
by Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith, singing
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salvation.”
The Secretary read the minutes of the
October Conference (forenoon) which were
accepted. Opening remarks were made by
the President in which she greeted the
sisters affectionately. President M. A.
Hyde of Sanpete Stake was the first speaker.
Her remarks were spirited and to the point,
she referred particularly to the excellent
condition of the Society over which she
presided. Corrected an error made in the
grain report from the Stake, said it should
have read ten thousand bushels of wheat
instead of one thousand.
	President Adeline H. Barker, Cache
Stake, urged the sisters to rally round their
President and uphold, sustain and love her
thus helping her to carry the great
responsibility which rested upon her as the
President of a great organization. Spoke
tenderly of the wonderful work done in the
Logan Temple and the blessings we who
live in this day and age enjoy.
	President of Wanship, Summit Co. made
a few remarks also bearing testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, and stating they
had no poor in their Ward.
	President Jane S. Richards of Weber
Stake spoke in an interesting manner of
the power of healing and told of some
wonderful instances; thought it should be
our duty to comfort the sorrowing and help
lift the burden from the weak and encour-
age the doubting. Referred to the first or-
ganization of the Society by the Prophet
Joseph, spoke feelingly upon love, charity,
union and many subjects that were calcu-
lated to promote the growth and the
prosperity of the Society.
	Mrs. Louissa Jones, Secretary Relief
Society Beaver Stake, made a clear concise
and definite report concerning what had
been accomplished recently in that locality.

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Anderson Counselor Relief Society
of Bannock Stake, made an able report and
said the attendance was large, the Confer-
ences even in Midwinter having specially
large congregations.
	President Susan Grant, Davis Stake made
a brief report and spoke impressively of the
death of President William R. Smith of
their Stake, his able help and wise counsel
to the Society also of the recent death and
funeral services of Jesse W. Fox; thought
the white drapery used by our people on
these occasions took away some of the
gloom that prevailed when all was black;
President Lydia Rich of Morgan Stake,
made some good points in regard to saving
grain, and also upon charity, and said none
there were really destitute, she expressed
great joy and satisfaction in this labor of love
and exhorted all to diligence.
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, spoke
of the great number of branches to be
visited in that County and in brief what
had been accomplished; related a dream
she had which had proven to her that
Brigham Young was the lion of the Lord.
	President Mary Jane Atwood believed in
being prompt in all that we were expected
to do, and desired to have wisdom above
all things to perform her labors among the
sisters, wanted to promote union throughout
the stake, spoke considerably upon the
proper discharge of duties pertaining to or-
ganization work.
	Counselor Sarah Forsythe of Wayne
Stake, referred to the great energy and
perserverance, diligence, kindness and faith
of their President, and the confidence she
had inspired in all those associated with
her, and of the good work that was increas-
ing among them, notwithstanding the many
inconveniences under which they labored,
and being such a great distance from head-
quarters.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke elo-
quently of the sacrifices the Saints had
made in leaving their homes, and the graves
of their forefathers to come to Zion, of the
trials and privations many had endured,
alluded affectionately to the hand-cart com-
panies, and the crisis which now seemed
impending.
	President M Isabella Horne, of Salt
Lake Stake referred to the prophetic sayings
of Joseph Smith and others now being ful-
filled, and of the prosperity which had at-
tended this people in these valleys of the
mountains; the enjoyment we had in the
angelic work of looking after and supplying
the wants of the needy and in comforting
those who were cast down and needed
sympathy, brought up many examples of
faith, and referred to instances which occur-
red in the days of the Savior; thought per-
secution made us strong, but seducing in-
fluences were dangerous. Sang Doxology,
benediction by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have been reminded of the
typographical errors in the poem, “When
the summer comes again,” on the first page
of the EXPONENT of April first, in the first
verse twelfth line “rocks” should read
“nooks,” and in the second verse “these”
in seventh line should read “there”—and
worst of all the line “And in pristine beauty
blooming, the word “justice” was used
for “pristine.”
	The “Industrials,” as they are misnamed,
have been passing through Utah and mak-

[Column 2]
ing something of a sensation, Gov. West
and others getting somewhat worried over
the affair, however at last the party that
come in from Southern California departed
in peace, and a contingent of about two
hundren men made their appearance later,
who are still waiting for something to be
done. Meanwhile Coxey and his men sue-
ceeded in reaching Washington, what the 
next few months will develop in this in-
dustrial question it is impossible to tell un-
less one had the gift of prophecy.
	THE April Conference was a very pro-
progressive one indeed in many respects.
The inspirational sermons by Apostles and
especially the teaching of President Wood-
ruff in reference to the work for the dead,
proves that this people are not to be kept in
darkness concerning the course to be per-
sued, but that the Lord will reveal Him-
self according to the people’s needs, and
that divine revelation direct from our
Heavenly Father, is and will be given from
time to time through His servants who are
called to preside and lead his people, and
to carry on his work upon the earth.
	THE silk industry must not be permitted
to languish for want of encouragement,
some silk-worm eggs have been distributed
already, and we expect to have more soon,
reelers are being looked up to take hold
when the cocoons are ready, which will be
later in the season; and in view of render-
ing advice and all the assistance possible to
those anxious to take hold of this branch
of home, industry a Central Board has
been formed and articles of association pre-
pared and signed, the name to be Utah Wo-
man’s Silk Association, and meetings are to
be held fortnightly at this office. We
shall be able to give fuller particulars in
our next issue.

	QUESTION.

	IN looking down the columns of a daily
newspaper I noticed nineteen different re-
ligious sects. I ask which one of them
all have the true gospel of our Savior
Jesus Christ? I feel that this is a most im-
portant question to understand—it involves
the salvation of all mankind. Ephesians 4th
chapter, 4th verse it reads, “There is one
body and one spirit, even as ye are called
in one hope of your calling, ” 5th verse, one
Lord, one faith, one baptism.” Read St. Mark
1st chapter 5th verse, “And there went out
unto him all the land of Judea and they of
Jerusalem and were all baptized of him in
the river of Jordan, confessing their sins.”
St. Mark from 18 to 20th, verses “And Jesus
came and spake unto them, saying, “All
power is given unto me in heaven and in
earth. Go ye therefore and teach all
nations, baptizing them in the name of the
Father, and of the Son and of the Holy
Ghost. Teaching them to observe all
things whatsoever I have commanded you;
and, lo! I am with you always, even unto
the end of the world. Amen.”
	What language could be more plain or
positive in portraying the true , plan of sal-
vation? Here we can read the Saviour’s own
words given to his disciples after his resur-
rection and just before his ascension up in-
to heaven. The same gospel is repeated in
St. Marks last chapter from verses 15 to 20
“And he said unto them, go ye into all
the world, and preach the gospel to every
creature. He that believeth and is baptized
shall be saved; but he that believeth not


shall be damned. And these signs shall
follow them that believe” etc. We know by
reading the Savior’s own words as they are
written in the Bible, and not the doctrines of
men, which is true. And he gave some
Apostles and some prophets, and some
evangelists and some pastors and teachers,
for the perfecting of the saints and for the
work of the ministry, for the edifying of
the body of Christ “till we all come in the
unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto
the measure of the stature of the fulness of
Christ.” Thes. 5th chapter verses 19 and
20. “Quench not the spirit. Despise
not prophesyings.”
	How can those who profess to be
ministers preach the true gospel when they
deny there should be prophets or the gifts
of the spirit? It took prophets and
apostles for the work of the ministry. They
have another plan different from the Bible
plan that the Savior taught, and how are
we to know that their gospel is true. We
read in St Mark’s last chapter verse 2, “And
they went forth and preached everywhere
the Lord working with them and confirm-
ing the word with signs following,” Amen.
	The Savior has not returned
to earth to change His gospel, He
would not change it, it is the everlasting
gospel. Rev. 14th chapter 6th verse, “And
I saw another angel flying through the
midst of heaven, having the everlasting
gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth, and to every nation, and kindred
and tongue and people,” 7th verse, “Saying
with a loud voice, Fear God, and give
glory to him; for the hour of his judg-
ment is come, and worship him that made
heaven and earth, and the sea and the
fountain of water.” How this language
of St. John’s accounts for all these different
diversified gospels being advertised. The
true and everlasting gospel ceased to be on
the earth, and the angel that John saw had
to restore it again in its primitive order,
with apostles, prophets, helps and govern-
ments, with its gifts and blessings, the
same faith which we must contend for, that
was once delivered to the saints, and John
says, 18th chapter 4th, verse “And I heard
another voice from heaven saying, come
out of her, my people, that ye be not par-
takers of her sins, and that ye receive not
of her plagues;” 52nd verse, “For her sins
have reached unto heaven and God hath
remembered her iniquites.” Second
Epistle of John 9th verse, “Whosoever
transgresseth, and abideth not in the doc-
trine of Christ, hath not God. He that
abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath
both the Father and the Son.”
	MARY A. M. PRATT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SILK QUESTION.

	BY advices from the Department at
Washington D. C. I am informed in
answer to my inquiries that the silk sec-
tion of that Department is abolished, owing
to lack of appropriations hence no eggs
will be distributed this season consequently
there is not any prospective market for co-
coons there. The Secretary states that the
experience of the past quarter of a century
particularly that during the six years prior
to 1891, shows that in the United States
Silk Culture cannot be made profitable un-
der existing conditions.
	Therefore it seems what is done must be
by private enterprise which experience


Utah has always had to deal with, although
statistics prove that as far back as 1622 the
cultivation of silk was strongly urged and
land owners were compelled to plant mul-
berry trees or a fine was imposed. Seri-
culture was largely entered into and was
pronounced the most profitable industry of
the Country and the quality and excellence
equal to any produced in Italy. In 1770
2-300 pounds of reeled silk was taken to
Philadelphia to be worked up and the same
year a Mrs. Susanna Wright at Columbia
Lancaster Co. made a piece of goods 60
yards in length from her own Cocoons
which was worn by the Queen of Great
Britain as a Court dress. Ladies took up
the industry as a fashionable employment
and prior to the revolution wore silk dresses
of their own fabrication.
	Up to 1812-13 sewing silk was sold an-
nually to the amount of $600 by one
family alone.
	Therefore it would appear a pity, nay
even a sin that sericulture be allowed to
languish when by the showing of this lit-
tle paragraph such good results were
established and that sufficient interest
should be taken to promote so beneficial
and laudable an industry, which permanent-
ly established would create a vast revenue.
	I hope all who take a pleasure in seri-
culture in Utah will endeavor to their ut-
most to promote the industry if only for
home consumption realizing with what
success the Utah Silk Exhibit met at the
World’s Fair and the merited attention it
receives at the Midwinter Fair.
	I fear my article is already too long for
our progressive little EXPONENT but re-
member the amount of means President
Brigham Young expended to forward seri-
culture and how ardently he advocated and
recommended it and his saying the elements
in Utah are full of silk.
	M. A. TILL, Prest. Utah Co. Silk Asst’n.
Provo City, April 24th, 1894.


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
OF THE UNITED STATES.

CALL FOR MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

	EARLY in the history of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, it was
found necessary, in order to carry on its
work with proper deliberation, that An-
nual Meetings of its Executive Committee
should be held. Such Annual Meetings of
the Executive Committee have been held as
follows: the first in Indianapolis in May,
1891; the second in Chicago in May, 1892;
and the third in Chicago in May, 1893.
	By the constitutional plan of triennial
meetings, the second triennial sessions of
the Council  would have been held in
Washington in 1894. When, however, in
1891, it was determined that the National
Council of Women should take the
initiative in convening in this country a
meeting of the International Council in
1893, it was voted that the regular sessions
of the National Council should be post-
poned for one year, hence the next meet-
ing of the National Council of Women of
the United States will be held in Washing-
ton in February of 1895. The next meet-
ing, therefore, of the Executive Committee
will be of unusual importance. Before it
will be laid full reports by the President,
Corresponding Secretary and Treasurer, as
well as by the Recording Secretary of the

[Column 2]
work in their respective departments of the
National Council since 1891.
	This will cover the work of the Council
in relation to the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, and to its exhibi-
tion in the Woman’s Building during the
Columbian Exposition of 1893.
	Owing to the work of the Council in
relation to the International Council during
the last two years, its work proper in our
own country, while not neglected, has been
sensibly diminished. Unusual activity will
therefore be necessary, not only on the part
of the General Officers, but on the part of
all the organizations belonging to the
Council, to make the sessions of 1891, fulfil
the plans proposed in the address of its
first President, Frances E. Willard, and in
the statements subsequently  issued by the
present officers of the Council.
	Owing to the initiative taken by the
National Council, local councils are rapidly
springing up throughout the country, each
in its own community applying to local
needs the principles of individual organic
liberty and mutual helpfulness among or-
ganized bodies, now so generally recognized
as the dominant principles in what has
come to be popularly known as the “Coun-
cil Idea.”
	One important question to be settled by
the Executive Committee at its approach-
ing meeting is the relation of local coun-
cils to the National Council, and the
representation to which local councils shall
be entitled at the sessions of the National
Council in its meeting in 1895.
	The general outlines of the program of
that meeting will also be determined by
the Executive Committee, at this time
therefore, the approaching meeting will be
a meeting not only of the Executive Com-
mittee, but also of the committee of Ar-
angements.
	The Executive Committee is constituted
of the General Officers and the Presidents of
all organizations belonging to the Council,
while the Committee of Arrangements in-
cludes the Executive Committee and one
delegate from each of the organizations be-
longing to the Council. Members of the
Committee of Arrangements, who are not
members of the Executive Committee,
will in the coming meeting be entitled to
speak upon all questions that should come
before the Executive Committee for its con-
sideration, but will be entitled to vote only
on such questions as are usually entrusted
to the Committee of Arrangements.
	All Patrons of the National Council are
cordially invited to be present at the
meeting of the Executive Committee and
the Committee of Arrangements, when
they will enjoy the privilege of participat-
ing in discussion of all questions that arise,
of proposing questions and even motions.
Patrons, however, have no vote. Al-
though reasons for this have been fre-
quently stated, it cannot perhaps be too
often reiterated that the central thought
of the Council Idea is the equal representa-
tion in its deliberation and its policy of all
the ideas and objects represented by the or-
ganizations belonging to the Council
therefore it is that the membership of an
organization does not affect the number of
votes that it has in the Council, where each
organization belonging to it has one vote on
all questions that come before the Executive
Committee, and two votes on all questions
that come before the Committee of Ar-
rangements, and where no one else, ex-
cepting the General Officers of the Council,


has any vote. The vote allowed to the
General Officers is, of course, allowed on
the understanding that the General officers
of the Council as such, represent no
organization belonging to the Council, but
stand only for the fair application of the
Council Idea to all work undertaken by it as
a whole.
	It is hoped that every organization be-
longing to the Council will, at the ap-
proaching meeting in May, be represented
by both its President and one delegate, and
that all patrons of the Council will be
present at the meeting.
	At the present juncture nothing is more
necessary to the interests of the organized
work of women in the United States than
that an accurate knowledge of the history,
the objects and the methods of the Council,
and a just conception of the Council Idea
shall be spread and propagated throughout
the country.
	The proposed meeting of the Executive
Committee and Committee of Arrangements
will be held on the 7th and 8th of May in
the city of Philadelphia. The local prepara-
tions are in the hands of Rachel Foster
Avery, Somerton, Philadelphia, Corres-
ponding Secretary of the National Council
of Women, to whom all those preparing to
attend this meeting are requested to write.
	MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
	President of the National Council of Wo-
men of the U. S., and General Vice-
President of the International Council.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
	Corresponding Secretary of the National
Council of Women of the United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXVII.

	Young Barrington had stood by Maitland,
coming the moment the message of her
death was brought to him. It was on the
Sabbath day just as he was leaving the
meeting house, after having preached an
impressive sermon, rendered more solemn
because of his intense sympathy for the
family now passing through such a severe 
ordeal of grief and suffering. He had been
thinking of Anna, to whom he was greatly
attached, and who had made him a con-
fident in the most innocent way, for al-
though Anna Hilliard was not brought up
religiously her nature was of that refined
and pure type, that is termed spiritual.
Barrington’s influence was good every-
where, and especially so for Maitland; the
Doctor was very fond of him and both
families were in the habit of attending at
the little primitive meeting house where
every Sabbath day he preached to the few
devoted followers who assembled there, and
many times during the week at prayer
meetings; he was one of the most conscien-
tious and truly devoted followers of the
Reformed Church.
	IT scarcely seemed possible to the Wal-
ton household that the fair, sweet, young
mistress, whom all loved so tenderly and
reverenced with such devotion could be
thus suddenly taken from them; and the
grief of the servants equaled almost, that
of Lord Walton himself who refused all
proffered consolation, and only asked to be 
left alone. Dr. Bland was his adviser and
confident—he insisted upon being admitted
at all hours and would take no denial.
	Mr. Barrington would gladly have re-
mained with him, but he could not be

[Column 2]
persuaded to fraternize with any of his
friends, though many offers were extended.
Dr. Bland managed all the necessary busi-
ness matters that required immediate at-
tention and Mr. Barrington rendered him
all the aid in his power. Mrs. Bland had
the heaviest burden to bear, for she had not
only her deep sorrow for the loss of her
nearest, almost her only relative but the
responsibility of Lady Walton’s entire
domestic establishment. The two children
were as much her care now as her own,
and yet she could not do just as she
liked, for Edward’s nurse was wilful, and
any interference with her management
roused her temper even from Lady Walton
herself. Maitland was useless in this crisis,
and Mrs. Bland felt as if an avalanche had
suddenly fallen upon her.
	The increase of care and anxiety for Dr.
Bland also worried his wife, she knew how
much more he was doing than he was
physically able to undertake, and she
realized how much more manly it would be
in Maitland, to take some of the actual
responsibility of the distressing situation
upon himself, instead of shirking it, and
leaving others to do double duty.
	Speaking to Mr. Barrington she said “I
have no patience with such weak-minded
men as these young Lords and Baronets,
they know nothing of life as it really is,
Maitland is far better able to see after his
own affairs than Dr. Bland, (you know how
ill my husband has been the past winter)
yet he shuts himself up like a child, and
forgets the living who should be his con-
stant care—I long to tell him, but he
would not take it from a woman, nor from
anyone I presume, his father was almost as
weak, and what can we expect of sons
reared to take no active part in a world full
of work as well as pains and realities.”
	“But his mother, Mrs. Bland cannot she
be appealed to for aid in this extremity?”
said Mr. Barrington—‘‘His mother is in
great trouble at present—in fact Maitland
was sent for only a short time ago to come
and help her out of some embarrassment,
though of what use he would have been I
do not know—I am sorry for Lady Walton
—not in herself equal to any great trial.”
	“What then do you think will be the
course pursued by Lord Walton, is there no
one who can come forward and show him
the path of duty in reference to his
children’s welfare;’ said Mr. Barrington
with the most serious air. "I fear not at
present," replied Mrs. Bland we shall have
to make the best of it under the circum-
stances, and my husband will do all, and
more than he ought—but the friends we
know here are most considerate and helpful.
It is the little ones for whom my heart
aches, if Anna could only have said what
she would like I should have insisted upon
her wishes being carried out to the very
letter, but we none of us know.” Here
Mrs. Bland broke down completely, and
her young friend who was like a brother,
retired leaving her to recover composure,
knowing so well that it would be better so,
than to offer words of sympathy which
were all in his power to give. He too felt
keenly the loss of Lady Anna, and his
friendship was sincere for the sorrowing
ones; Dr. Bland had asked him to speak
at the funeral, and he scarcely knew wheth-
er his spiritual courage would be sufficient
for the ordeal;—but he would not flinch.
	All that love and the most hallowed
tenderness could do, was done with
reverential feeling for the mistress of the

[Column 3]
Walton House—and when in the plain,
little meeting-house, where she had at-
tended service usually on the Sabbath-day,
the sermon had been preached that melted
to tears every listener, the remains of the
beloved one were laid away among the tall
pines near by, where only a few simple
slabs marked the resting places of those
who had died in the little colony since its
settlement. Her maid made loud lamenta-
tion, and Mrs. Bland whose heartfelt grief
was greatest of all, kept it within, nor
showed any outward sign to the multitude.
As soon as possible, and really before any
positive method of management of the
family matters had been settled, Maitland
announced to Mrs. Bland his intention of
going to England, and shutting up the
house.
	“And pray what disposal will you make
of the children during your absence.”
said Mrs. Bland in her most plaintive tone
of voice, for it seemed incredible that he
could think of so soon separating himself
from these motherless little ones. She
could scarcely believe him in earnest yet
his manner of speech so indicated. “I had
supposed that your kinship to Anna, and
your interest in the children would be so
strong, that you would not wish to be
separated from them; your house is large
enough to take them both in with their
nurses and your heart I am sure would say,
yes! I shall soon return with my mother,
if she can be persuaded to leave Walton
Hall, and then we shall relieve you of the
daily anxiety, though I am sure you will
always be like a second mother to Anna’s
children, and I shall never give them
another.”
	Mrs. Bland knew not what reply to
make but self-possessed as usual, she was
determined to speak her mind. It seemed
an opportune time, she took in the situa-
tion as a whole; she knew how willing he
was others should bear his responsibilities,
and his mother was of the same type. She
had loved Anna as a sister and desired to
watch over her children, but she felt that the
father ought at least to accept the position
of a parent, she had hoped it would have
aroused his manhood to have such a charge
upon his hands and heart—but she saw
now with sorrow and with pity, that even
Anna’s death had not had the effect she had
hoped and looked for. Mrs. Bland almost
choked with emotion as she said “Maitland
I must speak to you as I think a sister
should, you must be aware that there is a
solemn duty resting upon you in the care
of these helpless children, a duty which
cannot be fulfilled by any one but yourself,
and I entreat you now, as you value your
future happiness, and theirs, not to leave
them here and go away. I will do my
part but you must also do yours, as a
father should.”
	“But my mother needs me cousin Jane,
she is in great trouble as you know, and it
is my duty to stand by her and defend
her.”
	“Cousin Maitland far be it from me to
wish you to neglect your mother, but she is
a woman in years; and has seen much of
the world, she will not be at a loss for
advisers, she has those near her capable of
giving good counsel, and she can wait;—
she will not expect you to leave these lit-
tle children to come to her, they should be
your first thought. I cannot consent to
your going, my better judgment tells me it
would be wrong, Anna would not have for-
saken these children had you been taken


away, she would have been father and
mother both as nearly as possible, let me
plead for her—you surely will reconsider
this idea of going away.”
	“Cousin Jane excuse me if I say I must
go, there will be a ship sailing in a few
days now—I will try and come back soon
bringing my mother with me—I cannot
bear to stay here now that Anna has gone, 
I never liked the country as you know, it
was to please her that I came.” Mrs.
Bland felt it was hopeless to say more but
decided to ask the Doctor to add his en-
treaties to hers, and so they parted for the
night, her mind full of the grave phase of
the difficulty she had to face, while he only
thinking of himself, longed to be off and
away, and forget unpleasantness in new
faces and scenes. Before retiring that
night Jane talked long and seriously with
her husband, who promised to do his best
to awaken the fatherly instincts of Mait-
land and make him see the wrong he would
do by leaving his children to others, and
his affairs with a steward who was very
incompetent to manage for him when his
master was there to oversee. In a few days
Dr. Bland found an opportunity to speak to
Maitland, and he listened attentively for he
held the good Doctor in the highest estima-
tion, but he made no promises, and as time
went by it was very apparent he intended
going; the servants were gossipping among
each other as is quite natural, and the
houeskeeper came to Mrs. Bland with the
news as she imagined it to be, that his
Lordship (her young master) was about to
leave for England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S PATRIOTISM.

	EVERY nation has its heroes, its patriots,
and statesmen, and proclaims their virtues
far and wide, till they seem to walk before
us as examples, as guides and instructors,
sometimes for good, sometimes for evil. 
	Though history generally makes most
familiar to us, men who have dedicated their
lives to their country, the opposite sex,
women have been no less active. Prejudice 
and ignornace have for centuries buried in
oblivion their virtues, and brought to
daylight only their frailties, never striving
to enlarge and elevate their idea and
motives.
	But that time has passed. We live in an
age of progress, when the very atmosphere
cries ‘‘Onward and upward,” and woman
is beginning to take her right position in
the world.
	It is apparent that she is God’s appointed
agent of morality. She teaches, she in-
spires those sentiments and feelings which
are called the virtues of humanity, and
whether these virtues shall progress,
whether the permanent improvement of our
race shall be upward, depends on how man
treats her. Was it not a woman that was
first to proclaim a risen Saviour? Was she
not the one chosen by our Lord himself, to
go forth bearing the glad tidings to the sor-
rowing disciples, that their Redeemer lived?
Do we. not plainly see that Christ recognized
woman as the equal of man, and who, after
this, shall say, ‘‘Stand back, woman?”
What is man without woman? He is selfish,
prejudiced, and easily cast down, while he
calls himself “lord of all creation.” Not
so with woman. She is the prop that keeps
him standing. He, from his pedestal of
honor and renown, smiles benignly upon
his worshipers. He may be consulted in

[Column 2]
the affairs of state, and he exults in his own
greatness. That is one side of his nature,
wait, just wait, till he gets within the four
walls of his home. He finds the woman;
she plans and plots for him the glorious
works of the future, she patiently assists
him with his lectures, his writings, his
everything, while the poor tired statesman
smokes a quiet cigar, or visits the land of
Nod.
	The life of Disraeli, England’s late illus-
trious statesman proves this when weary
and worn out with  the complex questions
of state, he was ready to throw up honor
and renown, and only cheered by a wife
who eagerly aided him by words of com-
fort, clearing away the dark clouds of doubt
and mystery. Is it not time that woman
claimed her own? Why should others
shine by her efforts? Even if her path be
not so high as this, every woman may be a
patriot, and do her country a world of good.
Every woman whose object it is to raise her
children to be good,useful men and women,
who are willing to defend their flag from
insult and injury, has placed a boon in the
hands of her country. How true it is that
‘‘the hand that rocks the cradle, is the hand
that rules the world!” Her trials and suf-
fering may soon be forgotten, but her deeds
will last forever.
	Though not in the power of all to com-
mand upon the battle-field as Joan of Arc,
Boadicea Bona Lombardi or the Maid of
Saragossa did, yet her work is none the less
great.
	Harriet Beecher Stowe illustrates a case
where the pen has proved a potent factor in
the female hand. How that book, “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” inspired noble, deep think-
ing men and women to put down the curse,
that bid fair to destroy this boasted land of
Liberty. 
	The story was not the outburst of
a chimerical brain, but the truth as gleaned
from actual facts. The volume was not
planned at once. No, like the far off light
which the traveler sees, but which comes
no nearer to him save by his own exertions,
step by step, every time the foot goes for-
ward coming nearer the journey’s end so
with her, humanity struck the flint, and the
tiny spark inspired her. Onward she
pressed, the goal was reached and a blow
struck in poor, suffering Africa’s behalf.
	This writer was a patriot true and bold,
shunning not the boulders that darkened
her path, fearing not the hate of her South-
ern brethren, ready to give her life for
humanity.
	She had not the fiery eloquence of Clay or
Webster, but she made use of the talent
placed in her hands, and her task was as
faithfully performed as those of Lincoln,
Grant or Farragut.
	The world is beginning to learn that,
after all, the progress and prosperity of a
nation depends as much upon the woman
as the man, and to gain the desired ends,
their rights must be equal, that they may
walk together, one supporting the other,
till Purity, Justice and Truth, shall clasp
hands, never more to be rent assunder.
	FLO.
San Francisco.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	Quarterly conference of the Relief Society of
Box Elder Stake, convened in the Tabernacle

[Column 2]
at Brigham City, on the 13th of March, at
ten o’clock, a. m. President Olivia Wider-
borg presiding. Singing, ‘‘Do what is right
let the consequence follow.” Prayer by
connselor Mary Wright. Singing, ‘‘Hail,
to the brightness of Zion’s glad morning.”
Roll called, minutes read and accepted. Re-
ports were made by Sister Harper, president
Calls, Fort; Sister Watkins, president
Fourth Ward, Brigham City; Sister Cordon,
Willard; Sister Michelsen, president of
the Scandinavian Association; Sister
Gregorsen, counselor Third Ward, Brigham
City; Sister Thorne, president Three Mile
Creek; Sister Bigler, counselor in Second
Ward, Brigham City; Sister Jensen of
Mantua. Each made encouraging remarks.
	President Widerborg, explained that
Sister Mary E. Snow has resigned her
position as president in the second ward, and
her counselors had done remarkable well
in her absence. The Lord will bless Sister
Boden, who will be her successor. Sister
Charlotte Boden responded with a wish to
be faithful and perform every duty.
	Sister Bowring: I heard Brother Kim-
ball once say we should be as clay in the
potter’s hand, if we depend on the Lord we
shall be so. We can do a great deal of
good to each other, we should continually
plead with the Lord to give us strength to
live faithful.
	Emelia D. Madsen: It is a sacred calling
to be a president or an officer in the Relief
Society. The teachers in visiting should try
to find the needy. They need to possess the
Spirit of the Lord, the spirit of discernment
and great big hearts that they may find even
those who shrink from receiving help in
their need. This money famine has affected
many, who would rather give than take.
Our deceased president, ‘‘Aunt Harriet,”
used to say, ‘‘we should save souls,” per-
haps some may even become strengthened,
in their faith by the consideration and
sympathy of their sisters.
	Counselor Mary Wright: Most of us
have had experience in the healing of the
sick, we should have confidence in our
brethren and sisters. Let us not find fault
with each other, it is weakening to our-
selves, let us do all the good we can. If it
was not for the Relief Society we would
not be what we are. Singing, ‘‘An Angel
from high,” Benediction by Brother Call.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, ‘‘Hark!
the song of Jubilee.” Prayer by Bishop
Valentine. Singing, ‘‘Sweet is Thy work
my God, my King.” Reports from the
different branches read by Sister Annie
Wixom. President Olivia Widerborg: ‘‘I
am happy I am one with you my sisters,
Latter-day Saints, whose hearts are full of
an earnest desire to serve the Lord. You
have heard the reports, the Lord has blest
us, peace, love, and unity has bound us to-
gether, I feel to thank the Lord. Let us live
so that love and unity may grow among
us, we all have faults, but none of us have
a moment to spare to find fault with others.
I would say to Presidents and Secretaries,
keep your reports straight; by the help of
my sisters we have tried to get our Stake
record in such a shape that when we go
behind the veil we can show on black and
white what we have done with your means.
	Sister Sadie Hansen, Beaver Dam, Sister
Booth, President First Ward, Brigham City,
made some interesting suggestions; referred
to President Woodruff’s birthday reception,
how he called their attention to his faults,
believed there was not a man living with so
few faults as Brother Woodruff.


President Rudger Clawson: I have per-
fect confidence in your president, that she
will use your means to the very best. You
have ample opportunity to advance in good-
ness, with principles of the gospel, help
the sick and the downcast. A great many
of our sisters have faith and the gift of
nursing. Referred to the promise in the
Doctrine and Covenants. It is not the
doctors who save life, but the Lord, He
controls the principles of life. Brother
Clawson spoke in an impressive manner of
the danger in using chloroform too freely,
great care should be taken in deciding when
to use it.
	Counselor C. Kelly: A tree is known by
its fruits, I am proud of it. I have been
pleased to listen to the fatherly counsel by
our president. I am a strong believer in the
laying on of hands and administration of
the servants of God. It is good to keep those
principles before our children, this lays
greatly in the hands of the mothers. There
are many delinquent fathers as well as there
are mothers. God bless you sisters and fill
you with peace.
	Treasurer’s account read by Sister Fanny
Graehl. President Olivia Widerborg: “I
want to say in honor to my God, I went
this morning and asked the Lord to bless 
me that I might hear what would be said,
and praised be the Lord, I have heard every
word that has been said.” Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Benediction by Bishop Harper.
EMELIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.
	WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wayne Stake was held in the Loa School
House, Feb. 25, 1894. President Jane S.
Coleman presiding. Singing, ‘‘God is
Love,” prayer by Elder F. W. Young.
Singing, ‘‘Weary not.” Minutes of last
conference read and approved President
Coleman made opening remarks, prayed that
a goodly portion of the Spirit of God would
be with us during our Conference. The
branches of the Relief Society in Fremont,
Loa, Willmoth, Thurber, Teasdale, were
represented in good condition, all reported
they had commenced to read and study the
Lectures on Faith as requested in their meet-
ings.
	Sister Lucinda Brown spoke on the good
teachings given during our Stake Confer-
ence; spoke of home industries and that we
should sustain them, that the officers and
members of the Relief Society should
work in unison and each perform their part
for the general good; gave some instructions
with regard to burying our dead, there
should be order in all such things, desired
the blessing of God to be with us.
	President J. S. Coleman said she was
pleased to hear the good reports from the
Relief Society as represented. Caneville
and other branches did not have a repre-
sentative present on account of sickness.
Spoke of the great improvement continual-
ly going on in the institutions of our 
Church for the advancement of all. Felt it
was inspiration that rested on our beloved
President Z. D. H. Young to have the
Lectures on Faith read and discussed in our
meetings; thereby faith will increase in our
midst. Mothers will more fully understand
the principles of the gospel, and be able
to teach their children, may faith and good
works be planted and impressed in the
young and tender mind that our posterity
may be mighty. Counselor Sarah S.
Forsythe spoke of guarding our children
from evil habits and keeping them em-
ployed, especially have something to amuse
and instruct them at home evenings.
	Elder J. T. Lozenby spoke of the great
ness of England through home manufacture.
If we stay at home and produce what we
need and to spare, the dollar will come to
us. Elder F. W. Young said he had been
pleased wth the instructions given, related
incidents of the influence women possessed
for good; if they will unite with their hus-
bands in buying home manufactured goods
we could give employment to many of our
own people.
	‘‘O my Father” was rendered in a very
creditable manner by James Stringam.
Singing an anthem. Benediction by J. A.
Taylor.
	Sarah S. Forsythe, Act. Sec.


128 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	BIOGRAPHICAL sketch of Rachel Cook Drol-
linger. She was born in Mason Co. Kentucky, June
14th, 1798. She was married to Samuel Drol-
linger Dec. 21st, 1819. They both joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in July, 1831, Samuel being baptized on the 7th,
and Rachel on the 8th of the month by Elder
Solomon Hancock.
	They moved to Jackson County, Missouri, with
the Saints and with them were driven out; and
from hardship and exposure endured during that
time he died Aug. 16, 1834, in Clay Co., Missouri,
leaving Rachel a widow with six children.
Three weeks from that time her eldest son (then
in his 15th year) died from the same cause.
	Then with her five children four sons and one
daughter, she was with the saints in their suf-
fering and persecution.  Moved with them to
Nauvoo, and was an active member of the Re-
lief Society that was organized by the Prophet
Joseph, and I will here say that the Prophet was
assisted by this worthy family in a material way,
financially, several times. From Nauvoo with
her family she traveled with the Saints, and
came to Utah in the year 1852, locating in Payson
where she resided until her death
	She was the first President of the Relief
Society organized in Payson which organization
was perfected in February, 1856.
	Sister Drollinger was always the friend of the
unfortunate, gentle and kind to those who needed
her sympathy. Yet she had, as it were, an iron-
will, and could not look upon affectation, pride or
deception with the least allowance.
	Plain and outspoken in her manner and so
honest in her convictions in this regard that she
urgently requested to be laid away in a neat,
plain, white coffin; her request was respected and
complied with.
	Rachel Cook Drollinger departed this life on
Jan. 22nd 1894, having lived to the ripe old age of
ninety-five years seven months and eight days.
Having lived a faithfnl Latter-day Saint sixty-two
years, six months and fourteen days, and a widow
fifty-nine years, five months and six days.
	Thus ended the life of one who was never idle,
and who never lost an opportunity to do good.
	She died as she had lived with a firm reliance
of a glorious resurrection.
									COM.


OBITUARY.
	DIED at Wales, Jan. 8th, 1894, Sarah J. Davis,
beloved wife of Benjamin Davis; she was born at
Wales, Sanpete Co., Utah, Dec. 18, 1869. Our
Society has lost a faithful member. Sister Davis
held several prominent positions in this Ward.
She was, at the time of her death, Assistant
Secretary in the Relief Society. When a child
she was always faithful in her Sabbath School,
and a true and earnest Counselor for years in the
Primary Association.
	Sister Sarah attended to her duties on earth
well, and has now gone to receive a just reward,
where we hope to see her on the morn of the
first resurrection. She left a husband and two
small children to mourn her untimely death.
			ANN E. MIDGLEY, President.
			SARAH S. REESE, Sec.


G. F. CULMER& BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils and Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

	MRS. LIZZIE H. SHIPP, professor and
practical teacher of obstetrics, will open a
school of obstetrics and nursing in Salt
Lake City the first Monday in May. A
half yearly course will be taught for the
unprecedented low terms of ten dollars.
All persons desiring to avail themselves of
this opportunity will please consult me by
letter or in person at No. 34 S. 7th, East
Street, Salt Lake City.

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual 
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimme
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. B
tons covered while ycu wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1894.	No. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Woman’s Sphere—S. W. Richards. Ladies’
Semi-monthly Meetings—Lydia D. Alder.
Nature—E. H. Lyon. Our Agency, When
Does, It Begin?—Zion’s Convert. Miscellaneous.
Relief Society Conference—E. B. Wells. U. W.
P.C.—Gladys Woodmansee. R. S. Reports—
Ellen L. Goldsbrough. W. S. A.—M. E. Irvine.
Notes and News. Utah Silk Association
Obituary.

	EDITORIAL:—Visit of Pen Women. Utah
Federation of Clubs. A Few Thoughts.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Springtime—Hyacinth. Birthday
Greetings—Lydia D. Alder. The Old Temple
Wall—C. C. R. W.


SPRINGTIME.

BRIGHT Spring, if I should ask you,
To hasten in your flight,
To bring no fair sweet blossoms
To gladden mortal sight,
No cool and sparkling dewdrips,
That kiss the brow of night;
To steal the gentle breezes,
That fans the morning light.
To stay the rushing waters,
In their ever onward flight.
The hilltops ne'er adorning,
With aught but pearly white;
To hear no feathered songsters,
Arrayed in plumage bright,
Trill forth the sweetest music,
From out their leafy height.
Witholding welcome showers,
From lovely Nature's sight,
Nor clothe her vales with verdure,
Whose beauties all invite.

Fair Spring, if this I ask you,
Would I an answer find?

Ah, Springtime, gentle Springtime,
Have not a doubt for me;
I would not have you other,
E'en though a change could be.
I love your fragrant flowers,
And graceful waving trees,
Your verdant vales and valleys,
And smoothly covered leas;
The rugged clifts and ledges,
That round me I can see,
Grim sentinels of safety,
They ever seem to be.
The winding rills and rivers,
That flow to meet the sea,
With rippling sounds of laughter,
And roaring shouts of glee.
All these are dearest pleasures,
Whose freshness ne'er can flee,
From the depths of true affection,
Safe locked with memory's key.

No, no, happy Springtime, linger,
Forevermore with me.
HYACINTH.
May 1, 1893.


THE soul that does good to others grows
in goodness. He that is a medium of
blessing to others is himself blessed thereby.
Hence, selfishness is a folly, as well as sin;
for while it prevents our doing good to
others, in the same degree it prevents our
doing good to ourselves.—Jean Paul.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S SPHERE.

	AMONG the unsolved problems of the
day, remains that of the limits of woman’s
sphere.
	Ages past have endeavored to determine
the bounds that should be prescribed for
her, as being suited to her capacity, of
both mental and physical development.
It has been a cherished idea with man that
there were limits beyond which she must
not venture, beyond which her aspirations
must not attempt to soar. But she has so
persistently not only advocated, but de-
manded of her lord, the man, possession of
rights so consistent with her relations to
him, that his own moral sensibility has in-
duced him to make concession from time to
time, until now some dare to say there is
no limit to her sphere within the circle of
man’s ultimate destiny;—that her intel-
ligence, her moral obligations, her suscepti-
bilites and sensibilities;—her place and
power, and her appreciation, all render her
competent to be a complete companion of
man, through all the conditions and
vicissitudes of time; a sharer of all his
honor and glory beyond the limits of this
probationary experience.
	It seems to be justly claimed that her
importance has not been appreciated by man
as was designed in the beginning it should
be, when it was immutably decreed that a
man should leave both his father and
mother, and cleave to woman as an indis-
pensable companion to his future welfare,
that when woman is to take precedence of
both father and mother in the eternal
economy, she may not be lightly esteemed,
must not be looked upon with indifference,
not be set aside in any condition as some-
thing that can be dispensed with. Jesus
himself, recognized this law of the Creator,
and gave it complete endorsment as bind-
ing upon man, when he quoted it in de-
fence of his views, that from the beginning
there was no such thing as a separation
contemplated, after the relation of man and
wife had been consummated.
	Certainly it is by and through her that all
men are, ever were and ever shall be; and
must she not share in the accountability
which man shall render of his life? Where
then is the time or place in which she is
not entitled to share with him in all the
responsibilities and honors that man is
capable of bearing, or legitimately acquir-
ing?
	To govern is made her duty from the day
of man’s birth. She is both fitted and
competent for the honorable performance of
that duty. To learn his needs, and provide
for and administer to them she is equally
proficient; and in respect for, and in the
performance of duty she is ever the peer of
man. For integrity and honor she may
be fearlessly trusted, as the prevailing rule
of her life.
	It has not been so much by the encourage-
ment that man has given, as by her own
persistent efforts, that woman has risen
in the higher civilization of Christian nations.
It is certainly a great advance of the time
when she was subjected to a seclusion

[Column 2]
amounting almost to imprisonment, or to a
servitude equal to slavery; when she was
not considered as the ornament  and refiner
of society, the companion and friend of
man; but among the higher castes of society
was often required to sacrifice herself upon 
his tomb.
	The influence of Christianity has changed
to a great extent these conditions of her 
life; have released her from the actions
and degrading restrictions in which she had
almost become the soulless thing which 
she had been represented to be, and restored
to her many of her natural rights which
tend to establish a just and true equality of
the sexes; and a woman now is often
acknowledged the absolute sovereign of
a great kingdom as in hereditary monarchies
like those of modern times. In our day
she has not only acquired excellence but
prominence in many of the professions, as
well as in science and art, which places her
in the front, and makes good her claim to
the right of equality with many of the
sterner sex.
	It has now become a universal sentiment,
that nothing marks more decidedly the
character of man, and of nations, than the
manner in which they treat woman. In
fact, woman’s influence in society for good, 
cannot be overestimated. She is no longer
considered to be a mere plaything for
treacherous man. She is of that im-
portance that no man can be properly
educated, or fitted for life, who has not
experienced the influence and spiritual
divinity as embodied in woman and mother.
	An inspired writer has said of woman
that her price is far above rubies, and that
by getting one for a wife, man finds favor
with God. Who can estimate the value of
God’s favor? Or who can declare the worth
of a virtuous woman? She is in fact the
link that connects the temporal with the
spiritual, earth to the heavens, and man to
God. Well did the poet write:
		‘‘Heaven when it had created man,
		Unfinished found creation’s plan
		Nor would the links together meet 
		’Till woman made the chain complete.”
	The Father chose her by and through
whom all his spiritual children should come
to earth, and so ordered that she should be
the first to know the advent of the spirit to
its home, “a house not made with hands,”
and not until she has endowed it with the
virtues of her soul does she present it a
priceless offering to her Lord. Thus wo-
man is recognized by the eternal decree of
the Father to be the first to cherish
humanity; as also, she was the first to be-
hold immortality in a risen Son and Savior.
	The fact that no man is without the wo-
man in the Creator’s economy, makes it
difficult to find a place between  the advent
of humanity, and the immortality of the
risen dead, where woman’s sphere may not
be found, in which she may not tread with
that triumphant womanly pride that shall
fit her not only for the associations of men,
but of angels and of God.
	In view of the fact that there can be no
man, priest, king or God, without woman,


we may cease to talk about woman's
sphere as though it had a limit, other than
the world in which she moves.
	The author of the following lines, may
have exceeded even our own appreciation
of women:
	“There’s not a place in earth or heaven,
	There’s not a task to mankind given,
	There’s not a blessing or a word,
	There’s not a whisper, yes or no,
	There’s not a life, a death, a birth,
	That has a feather’s weight of worth,
	Without a woman it it.”
		S. W. RICHARDS.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the semi-monthly meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
March 10th, 1894, Counselor Elizabeth
Webb presiding. Meeting opened by
singing, “Arise, O Glorious Zion.” Prayer
by Sister Frances Smith. Continued by
singing, “O, Say What is Truth.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.
	Counselor Webb: Let us think of the
blessings we enjoy here in Zion. Here we
have our glorious Temple which has been
dedicated to the living God. Spoke of
“Christian Science,” the many they were
drawing to them. We know that their
foundation is a sandy one, also that we are
built upon the rock, let our lives and good
works bear testimony of this truth. Satan
will pass off twenty truths perhaps to one
lie, yet that one will destroy all the truth
he has told. Think of the words of the
Savior, he said, love one another. Let us
build up the kingdom of God.
	Sister Mary Silver spoke of the General
Relief Society who had given employment
to poor women, making comforters and
rugs, thought they had done much good;
some of the comforters were for sale, stated
their quality and price, and called on the
sisters to purchase some if they could. Ad-
ded that she was thankful that she was a
Latter-day Saint. Thought we should be
careful of our words and our influence, for
we will be held responsible for the same.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said, sickness was
often sanctified to us, knew how it had been
when we have been healed by the laying on
of hands God expects us to arise and
testify to it. He likes us to tell of his
goodness. God bless you all my sisters.
Made other good remarks.
	Sister Morris told the sisters to bear their
trials and not let their children know of
them, keep them as much as possible to
themselves. Sister Paul bore an excellent
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, spoke
of those in our midst who had been healed by
other means than the laying on of hands.
She had seen some healed, and some die,
although the same means were used.
Sisters be not deceived, let us cling to the
truth. I know we are built on the rock, and
I have seen the signs follow as promised.
Sisters Forsythe and Reid each bore
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel and
earnestly desired to be faithfnl. Spoke of
the Relief Society doing good to the poor.
Sister Aird bore testimony, and said “The
Kingdom of God or nothing for me.”
	Sister S. E. Brown and M. Brown each
spoke well, and encouraged the sisters. A
sister in the congregation bore an excellent
testimony. Sister Irvine thought all should
worship God as they desired, but warned
the sisters to look well to themselves, and
serve the true and living God. Thought

[Column 2]
the most of those who turned away from
the Church had never possessed much
faith, the seed had fallen in stony places,
and when other influences were brought to
bear, it withered up because it had not
much root.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of the power of
the adversary, how often he deceived those
who were not on the watch tower. Let us
study our own religion, and live near to
God. Let us shun the paths where many
have backslidden and pray for God’s help
to be true and faithful. Counselor Webb
made a few closing remarks. Sister Alder
read a note from President M. I. Horne
stating she was not able to meet with us
today and announcing the Quarterly Con-
ference.

	MINUTES of the semi-monthly meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
April 21st, 1894.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Jesus the
Giver.” Prayer by Sister Julia Pack.
Continued by singing, “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.”
	President M. I. Horne presiding
Minutes of the First Ward Primary were
read by the secretary.
	President Horne said there were some
sisters present who have been healed by
the laying on of hands in faith, and she
wished to hear from them, encouraged the
sisters to bear testimony, for the Savior had
promised to testify before his Father of
those who bore testimony of him.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of her labors
in the Temple, and bore testimony of many
wonderful healings through prayer and
faith of the brethren and sisters in the
Temple. “This is a world of trial and
trouble to prepare us for a better existence.
The Prophet Joseph said it would take a
thousand years to perform the work for the
dead, so let us press on, doing good and no
hurt. I pray that we may be prepared to
meet those who have gone on.”
	Sister Mary Ann Hyde, President of the
Sanpete Stake of the Relief Society said,
“I make it a point never to refuse anything
I am called upon to do. I have a diffidence
in speaking. We do not live as near the
Lord as we should, so that we may enjoy
the gifts. I have been in the church about
fifty years; and I was taught the principle
of plural marriage by the Prophet Joseph
himself, so I know it is true, and I have
lived in that order nearly as many years as
I have been in the Church. I honor it, and
feel that great blessings are in store for
those honorable ones who have lived in it,”
spoke also of her hip being injured years
ago. After coming to the hospital, the
many doctors pronounced her case hopeless,
that she could never walk again. Said she
went on crutches for a long time, but
through prayer and laying on of hands,
and the power of the priesthood, she could
walk as well now as ever she could.
	Counselor E. Stevenson stated that she
had been at Grantsville, so that she had not
attended the last meeting, “the brethren and
sisters there were so anxious to attend the
meetings, coming sometimes twelve miles
in a wagon, yet, look at the empty benches
here today. It is true the nearer the church
the farther from God?”
	Sister Delamare spoke on the fulfillment
of prophecy, as seen in gathering hosts at
Washington, and bore excellent testimony.
Sisters Baubrick, Morris and Frances Smith
each bore instructive testimonies, and
Louie Stevenson and Sister Bregher.

[Column 3]
	President M. I. Horne said “I have 
enjoyed the testimonies of the sisters. If
we have had lessons to learn, let us culti-
vate our gifts and learn them. God desires
us to do this and then we will know for
ourselves. We should have revelation for
our own guidance. The Lord will heal if
we seek for faith. It is a day to seek unto
God. Look at the promised signs, showing
great events at no distant day. But the
Lord will be sought after and then
He will bless us, and save us from the great
calamities that have commenced in the
world. You come here for spiritual food
sisters, and I pray that we may all be faith-
ful and true. Sister Lizzie Shipp announced
a lecture to ladies for the following week,
and a class to commence the first Monday
in May on obstetrics.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang,
“Satan’s empire long has flourished.”
Benediction.
				LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


NATURE.

	WHAT is nature? It was the decree of 
God that went forth when worlds were
made. It is shown in all His works.
How grand, how beautiful! The heavens,
the earth and the sea declare His name.
The sun, that glorious orb of day, the
source of light, heat and life. The moon,
the queen of night, and the countless
numbers of stars that light up the firma-
ment. The air we breathe. The seasons
as they roll around, bringing seed time and
harvest. Old ocean that years change not,
lakes, rivers and forests. The mountains
whose lofty peaks tower toward the sky.
Nature, what a field for thought and
adoration! Her book is open to all. The
animal, mineral and vegetable kingdoms,
with man at the head. Man, the Creator’s
greatest work. Placed here on earth for a
purpose. Will the time ever come when
mankind will realize as they ought, why
they are here, and what they are here for?
How much sorrow and suffering might be
avoided if they but thought of these things
in early youth. The laws of God would
be regarded in all things, spiritual and
temporal, and they themselves receive the
blessings. The mineral kingdom—what a
source of wealth to man? Its supplies are
inexhaustible. The vegetable kingdom,
without which man could not subsist.
What beauty! What perfection and order.
There are seldom any freaks in nature and
in her wise economy nothing is lost, al-
though on one hand constant wear. Yet on
the other continual building up. Should not
men’s hearts flow with gratitude to the
giver of all good whose wisdom passeth all
understanding. Could such a world have
been made by chance? No, man alone has
said, “There is no God.” The wonders of
nature are to be seen all around, above,
beneath. The unbeliever is to be pitied.
His mind, that God-like gift of intellect,
must be dark indeed, cheerless and hope-
less. Religion, the love of God is man’s
only solace.
	“Creator yes! Thy wisdom and thy word
	Created me! Thou source of life and good!
	Thou spirit of my spirit, and my Lord:
	Thy light! Thy love, in their bright plentitude
	Filled me with an immortal soul, to spring
	Over the abyss of death; and bade it wear
	The garments of eternal day, and wing 
	Its heavenly flight beyond this little sphere,
	Even to its source, to thee, its Author there."
								E. H. LYON


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.   131


BIRTHDAY GREETINGS.

(TO MY ESTEEMED FRIEND, ANNA B. J.)
YOUR birthday, dear friend! I wish you joy,
And though your life’s cup is mixed with alloy,
Think of the gladness your dear presence lends
To parents, to husband,dear ones and friends.

Dost remember the palace where primeval you 
	strayed,
The gardens of grandeur where soft breezes
	played? 
Or Father or Mother in whose courts you were
	reared, 
With love past revealing—and nothing was 
	feared? 
Where visions of beauty were old to the sight—
Where the glory of God so wondrous—so bright,
Encircled His children as in arms of love,
And rapture supreme reigned below and above.

Did the green sward of earth entice thee to
	come,
To leave joys supreme in that distant home?
Or was it the mother love drawing you here
Away from the life in yon glorious sphere?

Dear friend a mission was given to thee,
’Twas said, “Make a home and you shall be free”
But choose to do well, we will help you in love,
Will whisper of Heaven wherever you rove.”

Then when the steep pathway your tired feet
	tread,
And pitiless storms beat fierce o’er your head,
O, think of the love that is waiting for you,
When Heaven is gained and you have been true.

Then cheered be thy heart! And joyfully
	borrow,
The sunshine of hope, for lo, on the morrow
The clouds will all pass, and Heber will come,
With songs and rejoicing to you and his home.
						 LYDIA D. ALDER. 
January 26, 1894.


[Column 1]
THE OLD TEMPLE WALL.
[Salt Lake Temple, Nov. 7th, 1894.]
THOU old Temple wall 
	Which circles around,
What is dear to all Saints,
	That blest spot of ground;
On which stands our Temple
	So lofty and grand—
How thought crowds upon thought
	As gazing I stand.

As my thoughts backwards turn
	And seek memory’s page,
I see there inscribed
	How the wicked once raged
When they sought the possession
	Of our sacred halls,
Which thou hast guarded for years,
	Dear old Temple Wall!

How thrilling the knowledge!
	The remembrance, how sweet!
When calling on “Father,”
	We knelt at his feet,
And cried, Father, forgive them!
	Forgive them, we pray!
But spare our loved Temple
	From those who would slay
Thine anointed and chosen,
	Thy Prophets and Seers,
The prayers of thy people
	Oh God! Wilt thou hear!

How blessed! To know
	That our knowledge extends
To a God who doth hear,
	And raise up to us friends
And lo! Like the clouds 
From a clear summer sky,
	Roll back all our troubles,

[Column 2]
And we know He is nigh.
	Then, “Dear Wall” many times
Have I walked in thy shade,
	When the joy in my heart 
It’s own music hath made.
	Went in at thy gates,
And sat down in thy halls,
	And listened enraptured
To truth, as it falls
	From the lips of God’s servants,
How soothing and calm
	Is the peace that it brings
To the heart, what a balm!
	When troubles hang o’er us, 
Like a funeral pall,
	Oh!  How can we part with thee,
Dear old Temple Wall?

Above thy foundation
	The moss doth appear,
In patches, in crevice,
	Now there and now here.
Already the house in the corner is razed.
	Naught, soon will be left
On which we have gazed,
	In years that have gone,
With loved ones who sleep,
	Ah!  Tread gently, I dare not touch
That sacred spot lest I weep!

Soon thy mission is ended,
	And the time draweth nigh
When an enclosure more elegant,
	More chaste, (to the eye,)
Will surround our loved Temple.
	(Perhaps more pleasing to all)
But not dearer, to us, than
	Our, Old Temple Wall!
The rich and the poor, alike
	Enter thy gates,
Of the blessings within
	They alike may partake.
At the altars may kneel,
	When on “Father” we call,
Through thee, the Temple we enter,
	Dear old Temple Wall!

Must we part with thee?  Thou steadfast,
	Thou old and tried friend! 
Could’st thou not have stood
	And endured to the end?
Ah yes! But improvement
	Demands thy downfall;
But thou’lt live in our memories,
	Dear old Temple Wall!

						C. C. R.W.


OUR AGENCY, WHEN DOES, IT BEGIN.

	IT is true that an all wise Heavenly
Father has given us our agency? If so
when did we receive it? We came here
with faculties all dormant, not knowing
where we are or what to do, only to cry for
food that we may gain strength and intel-
ligence adequate to this occasion. We are
helpless, yes, helpless in every sense of the
word. Yet we find this food gives strength,
and we, after a time, discover that we have
faculties we can call into action; can grasp
and hold with the hands, and shortly use
our feet to walk.
	How delighted the child is when he can
accomplish this, and with what pleasure he
wlll do anything his parents or guardian 
will tell him to do.
	Yes he appreciates the faculties given
him, and the love of the parents for him
creates a love in the child, also and it is his
delight to do everything in his power to
please those who love him so tenderly.
Is not this typical of ourselves and what


we are or should be in the sight of God
our Father. 
	Yet the opposite spirit, Lucifer, tells us
you need not pray, Our Father knows what
you need before you ask Him. This is an
easy lesson, but is it a profitable one?
	Our Elder Brother’s lesson is quite the
opposite to this. He says, “seek and ye
shall find, knock and it shall be opened un-
to you.” In this way our faculties are
developed and drawn into action. Our
Father sees that since we are made in His
image, we must develop those faculties to
become God-like and partake of His nature.
While Lucifer would teach us that he has a
shorter and a better way to gain the same
result. Here we need wisdom to know
which lesson to learn first.
	Since we are told to become God-like we
must learn both spirits; that we may give
each one its true value and its proper place. 
	Now you must cling to the parent or
guardian who loves you, and has already
gained the experience you seek, and
remember that our Heavenly Father’s
voice is the first to listen to, to be safe from
evil, for after you have decided which to
follow you will find you have a prompter
in either case, either on the upward or
downward grade, after those faculties are
developed; but before this time his Satanic
majesty has no power, over little children.
This is the decree of God our Father.
	How wise, how merciful and good He is
to his erring children, knowing as he does
that the path through this world is a rough
one, yet it will teach us to seek wisdom
from the fountain of light and intelligence,
to arrive safely into port, to our eternal
home.
	When we read the history of our
Lord and Savior we see how many trials
He met with, yet He gained strength every
time, because of the help he received from
his Father who delights to bless all those
who put their trust in Him. In this way
they make a wise use of their agency, and
will find that every trial will be a benefit
to those whe can acknowledge the hand of
God in all things.
				ZION'S CONVERT.
Dec. 1st, 1892.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	YEARS mellow some men and petrify
others.
	THE earth is our workshop. We may
not curse it; we are bound to sanctify it.
—G. Mazzini.
	HONESTY is the best policy, because it
is the only policy which insures against
loss of character.
	NEVER bear more than one trouble at a
time. Some people bear three kinds—all
they have ever had, all they have now,
and all they expect to have.—Edward
Everett Hale.
	THE effective life and the respective life
are one.  No sweep of arm that does some
work for God, but harvests also some more
of the truth of God, and sweeps it into the
treasury of life.—Phillips Brooks.
	REMEMBER that if the opportunities for
great deeds should never come, the op-
portunity for good deeds is renewed for you
day by day. The thing for us to long for
is the goodness, not the glory.—Frederic
W. Farrahr.


132	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,				MAY 15, 1894


[Column 1]
VISIT OF PEN WOMEN.

	WE were delighted to meet and welcome
to our City on Sunday morning, May 13th,
some of the members of the National Wo-
man’s Press Association and their guests,
whose long expected visit here we had
looked forward to with such pleasant antici-
pation; and though their stay was only
very brief, yet it was a satisfaction to see
and converse even for a few hours with these
bright, brave women, who had accomplished
so much in the world of letters, becoming
so widely known from their work as some
of these women writers have, during the
last few years.
	A few of the officers and members of
the Utah Woman’s Press Club met them at
the depot and drove with them to the
Hotel Templeton, in the big Utah and Mrs.
McCune’s handsome carriage, and after-
wards drove over some parts of the City.
After lunch they went through the Bee
Hive, once the residence of President
Brigham Young, thence to the Tabernacle
and from there to Saltair Beach. Mr.
Nephi W. Clayton, the generous and amiable
manager, running a special train out as a
compliment to the press women.
	The visitors were homeward bound, hav-
ing visited Southern California, the Mid-
winter Fair and places of interest, includ-
ing the Yosemite, the Geysers and big trees,
and also attended the Woman’s Congress in
San Francisco, some of the ladies having
read papers and also spoken at the Congress.
Most of the party were from Washington,
D.C., others from Boston, Baltimore and
Chicago, and one very bright little woman
from South Carolina. They traveled in a
special car all the way, the Demarara, hav-
ing started on their trip westward April 14;
from here they went on to Denver and
Manitou, expecting to reach Washington
on the 17th inst.
	Mrs. Mary E. Lockwood, chief of the
party, is the President of the U. W. P. A.
and was one of the Vice Presidents of the
Board of Lady Managers of the Columbian
Exposition, has published some books and
is editor of the “American Monthly
Magazine,” she has a home at the National
Capital; Mrs. H. W. Balston, correspondent
of the Woman’s Tribune, and a poet of some
celebrity, known best by her poem of 
Columbus, written expressly for the World’s
Fair; Mrs. A. Maynard Richardson of
Boston, best known in art work from her
Limages pottery and in the literary world
for her art criticisms, and she did valuable
work at the World’s Fair as one of the jury

[Column 2]
on art. She treats on other subjects also
and is a very clever writer, and brilliant
women; she has a studio in Boston and is
well up in art technique; she hopes to
come west next year to make some
sketches.
	Mrs. Emily Charles Thornton (Emily
Hawthorne) has written poetry for papers
and magazines all her life, has published
some of them in book form, elaborately il-
lustrated; she is a correspondent of Advanced
Thought. Mrs. Julia A. Anderson is cor-
respondent of the Philadelphia Daily News,
has been during the World’s Fair a secret
service writer, but she is now devoting
much of her time and best efforts in writ-
ing a book which will soon be published.
	Mrs. Joanna Turner, an ex-army nurse,
had seen some actual service, and is a cor-
respondent for the Wisconsin State Register.
Mrs. Elvira Bliss Sheldon, correspondent
of Washington Daily Times, and Canton
Clipper, Ill. Mrs. J. L. McCreary, cor-
respondent of Humbolt (Iowa) “Kosmas.”
Judge Clark of Washington, D. C., was
among the gentlemen of the party, also Mr.
Geo W. Grey, whose daughter was also
one of the party; and Mr. Henry Sampson
and wife;—one or two other gentlemen of
the party had hurried homeward without
stopping over.
	Mrs. B. W. Moses, of Washington, in-
terested us very much on account of hav-
ing heard of her through Bishop Whitney,
who was at one time a guest at her house in
Washington in company with her nephew,
Jim McKnight, well known here in his boy-
hood. nephew of Feramorz Little and
grand-nephew of President Brigham
Young. Mrs. Moses is a brilliant talker
has seen much of the world, has traveled
extensively in foreign lands and has some-
thing interesting to tell. She intends com-
ing to Salt Lake again in the near future.
There were other women of note not
regularly engaged in press work, but doing
some special  correspondence for Eastern
papers while away.
We hope and trust the party will have
some pleasant memories of Utah and their
visit here, and certainly those of us who
met and conversed with them, will always
be more interested in their welfare and suc-
cess because of the bond of union and love
formed by the one day’s pleasant associa-
tion and interchange of kindly thought.


UTAH FEDERATION OF CLUBS.

	THE Utah Federation of Woman’s Clubs
held its first Annual Convention in this
city, Thursday May 10th, delegates from
the Ladies’ Literary, Utah Woman’s Press
club, Reapers’ Club, Cleofan and
Woman’s Club, of this city, the Nine-
teenth Century Club of Provo, the Spring-
ville Woman’s Ciub, the La Coterie, the
Magazine and the French Circle Club of
Ogden being present.
	The morning meeting was an executive
session of the general officers and of the
several clubs; the chief business consisted
in the election of officers for the ensuing
year. A nominating committee was ap-
pointed by the President and the vote was
by ballot, which resulted in the election of
Mrs. C. E. Allen, President; Mrs. Patten (of
Ogden,) Vice President; Mrs. Emma
McVicker, Secretary, Miss Georgia Webber,
Treasurer.
	At the afternoon session there was a
large attendance of members from the


several clubs, in the Federation, and the
variety of colors in ribbon denoting the
respective clubs with the artistic floral
decorations, added to the bright intellectual
faces of the women present, made a charm-
ing and delightful picture. Most of the
ladies spoke without notes or memoranda.
Mrs. Jennie Leonard of Springville gave
quite a practical address on the subject, “Is
the limitation of club numbers desirable?”
The next subject was “Home Talent and
Outside Talent.” Mrs. Nellie Little gave a
very able address upon “Parliamentary Law”
and Miss Josephine Kellogg the President
of the Nineteenth Century of Provo made an
exceedingly interesting speech and regular
law argument on “Helps and Hindrances
of Club Life.”
	The representatives of the Ogden Clubs
invited the Federation to meet there next
year and the offer was accepted.
	In the evening there was a session at the
First Congregational Church, the ladies of
the Cleofan had beautifully ornamented the
platform where the officers and speakers
were seated. Mrs. Carlow of Ogden, the
retiring president, made a most efficient
officer; and her charming appearance, and
gracious presence are fitting and appropriate
to the position. An organ solo by Mrs.
Hamilton opened the evening session and
the first speech was made by Mrs. Farlow
on the “History of Woman’s Clubs” and
her manner, voice, style and the impression
upon her audience was telling in the ex-
treme, and she handled her subject in a
masterly manner. Miss Geneva Jennings
sang two airs, has a clear soprano voice,
has been studying recently in Chicago.
The Treble Clef Society composed of
ladies sang the “Water Lily” and
Lullaby” song sweetly, Professor Krouse
accompanist. Mrs Patton gave artificial
society some severe cuts, her subject was
“The Social Phase of Club Life.”
	Mrs. C. E. Allen’s address came last and
she was heartily applauded, her subject
was “Educational Influence of Woman’s
Clubs” she dwelt impressively upon self-
culture, and also the good fellowship pro-
duced by the opportunities for mutual
help afforded by Woman’s Clubs.


A FEW THOUGHTS.

HOW FAR SHOULD HOME TALENT BE CUL-
    TIVATED AND TO WHAT EXTENT SHOULD
	OUTSIDE TALENT BE INTRODUCED
IN WOMAN’S CLUBS.

	[Federation Notes not used.]
	THIS subject was assigned to the writer
to speak upon at the Convention of the
Utah Federation of Clubs held May 10th.
	Some of our ideas may suggest thoughts
and methods to others, as it is an entirely
new subject and one upon which we have
never heard an opinion expressed; it cer-
tainly does and must necessarily depend
largely upon the personnel of the club
itself. To begin with I should say local
clubs are principally and first of all for the
development of home talent— its higher
cultivation or to bring out the most and
best of one’s possibilities for mutual help-
fulness and interchange of ideas of all in-
terested in the work mentally and in a
literary way; also sympathetically, for un-
less one’s sympathies are enlisted and one’s
whole intellectual nature fully awakened to
improvement and advanced thought, there
never can be any great achievement pos-
sible along the superior lines of what is


[Column 1]
all, and out of forty members or perhaps
termed the heights and depths of 
knowledge.
	How often have we heard women re-
gretting that their school days were over,
feeling that something tangible had gone
out of their lives, that they are losing, that
they are not advancing, in fact even those
who are happily married always speak with
a marked affectionate earnestness of the
school or class association, this lack is great-
ly obviated in club life—these clube are
sometimes spoken of as “married wo-
en’s colleges”—they aim to fill a place left
vacant, as woman grows away from the
friends of her girlhood, often called, to a
new home and surroundings, away from
all that was familiar, perchance to great
responsibilities for which she may be
totally unfitted either by birth education or
training; what outlet has she for the active
forces within, that would respond to some
call for expression, some ventilation of views
or opinions that might be a positive relief
to an overburdened heart, an antidote for
loneliness, and even uplift those around
her as well as her individual self. Often
the tired mother would be glad to converse
intelligently and sympathetically on equal
terms with some sister woman, but calls are
formal, dinners and teas are stupid affairs
usually, but the club comes in where all
meet on an equal footing, not to gossip, or
to talk scandal, but for mutual benefit and
that greater good to the larger number.
	If twenty-five or thirty women, or more
or less, unite to meet regularly for mutual
improvement, even then it may happen,
that a subject is sprung that is new to them
or to the world generally, for new ideas are
generated, or new phases of thought, as
well as new discoveries made. In such cases
certainly secure for the club the most able
exponent of the subject, to lecture or speak
upon it, that the whole club may get the
best that can be brought to bear upon the 
question.
	In all clubs there are some exceptionally
bright people who enthuse the majority,
carry them forward (so to speak), yet people
brought into close communication soon get
to know each other’s capacity and to compre-
hend what each one is equal to—and one
has to be diligent as well as brilliant not to
grow commonplace in the eyes of those
who meet them regularly. The saying “a
prophet is not without honor save in his
own country and in his own house, ”is a very
true one, think of it as you will; we all
know with what enthusiasm we go to hear
some new orator, or lecturer, even though
he may not be intellectually above those
with whom we are daily associated, yet it is
different, and stimulates our energies and
faculties. A change is wholesome, the great
world of nature teems with variety; and
there is nothing more disadvantageous to
the growth of the soul than to get into a 
rut, either in individual life, or in club
life, “variety is the spice of life,” and the
club needs new wine every now and then
to infuse and effusive, giving vigor, fresh-
ness and animation; people grow weary of
sameness, and pull contrariwise sometimes,
not because they are disagreeable but they
need uplifting. A club may and often
does tire of general work planned for them
even though they have consented to it,
those who take part may not be as brilliant
in dealing with questions as had been
anticipated, and in such cases it would seem
wise and expedient to have some outside
talent brought in; no one person knows it

[Column 2]
more, there may not be one who could tell
of actual experiences in Africa, or travels
up the Nile, or who had visited the Holy
Land, or been in East India, or a thousand
and one other things equally entertaining
and instructive. We are all of us likely to
tire of familiar themes and a new element
introduced occasionally increases the vigor
and power of development, brightens the
dull edge of wit, and sharpens the intellect.
In fact whenever a club talent introduced just
as you would send for a doctor in case of
sickness, sometimes two or three doctors
are needed; tone up the club with some-
thing strong, just as you would a patient,
apply a remedy that will be effectual, if
help can be procured.
No particular method can be laid down;
it seems to me these things must be left to
the discretion of the management, or a
committee wisely chosen, but certainly a 
club should take advantage of experts
along any line of thought, or of work in
which it is desirable to get the best and
most reliable information.
	All knowledge does not come from books,
there is the Great Teacher who inspires us all
in a greater or less degree, and none of us
know what may yet be developed in this
progressive age of the world, and whether
this new truth may be given to a sister wo-
man, or brother man, we may find our-
selves wiser, and better by living in a con-
dition to receive it. In summing up the
matter I would say outside talent may per-
haps depend too upon the financial condi-
tion of the club, that sometimes controls
larger interests in the community than club
life. To some people thoughts came pour-
ing in like great rivers, to others in little
streamlets clearer and purer perhaps, the
club may be the outlet and get the benefit
of the overflow of the great river, which
may refresh the parched soil, and the lit-
tle streamlet may, winding about here and
there, gladden many hearts with purer in-
spirations and be more desirable than the
great river.
	One great advantage of woman’s clubs is
the awakening of thought that bears fruit
in ideas, often very original ones, and per-
haps crude, but if one would not hesitate to
present these to the club, they might be
polished up and have a most brilliant set-
ting; only be sure and preserve the kernel,
or the essence of that which first came to
the individual, the seedling, dont lose the
positive thought through some sophistry of
expression. The world is moving onward
and the good time is surely coming when
we may grasp the ideal as well as the real,
instead of letting it soar away from us in
the dim distance, when we who have al-
ways longed to scale the heights inaccessi-
ble, may be uplifted above the clouds and
reaching down, help others to climb to a
place of safety above the storm and tempest,
but while we journey onward and upward,
let us clasp hands as sisters in sweet assur-
ance of helping each other to cross the
desert of ignorance and the dark river
of tradition, where the little boats of error
and superstition glide in and out alluring
the unwory. We will watch for the
beacon light of truth that shines from afar
over the Elysian fields of knowledge and
understanding. And while we pursue
our pioneer march, let us not forget the in-
numerable company that follow in our
wake, and leave for them shining waymarks,
hopeful harbingers of success in attaining
the goal of our—ambitions,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A UTAH WOMAN INVENTOR.

	MRS. JULIA FREKE SAMSON, of this City,
has invented an unique music holder
which she had patented Feb. 21st, 1893,
and which has been highly recommended
by musical people here and elsewhere, in
fact it will be a great convenience as the
following letters which are correct copies of
the original abundantly testify.
THE KNUTSFORD,
				Salt Lake City,
						Sep. 27, 1892.
	The music holder designed by Mrs. J.
Samson, examined by me this morning,
combines several advantages which will
commend it to musicians and students.
	Music can be sorted, held in position,
carefully protected from injuries and con-
veniently packed and carried about, by
means of this very comprehensive and
practical arrangement.
	The undersigned expects to save wear
and tear of music and considerable incon-
venience in the future by its use, 
	(signed) WILLIAM H. SHERWOOD,
Director Piano Department, 
				Chicago Conservatory.
	This Testimonial is certified to officially
by a Notary Public.
	Here also is another copy of a letter also
certified to in the same way.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Sep, 28, 1892.
Mrs. Samson:
	MY DEAR MADAME:—Your music
holder, the “Tallyho” is the very thing
our choir singers need to carry their books
in, and to protect from rains etc.
	Thousands of dollars are wasted yearly
by singers having to roll their books in
their hands in their way to and from re-
hearsal. This can now all be alleviated,
your ingenious device making it possible to
carry them straight—also to place them al-
together where nothing need be lost or
forgotten when wanted.
	What is so useful to choristers, must be
equally useful to all others who have, similar
books to carry and keep together. It must
succeed when known and understood for it
is so much needed.
			Yours,
				EVAN STEPHENS.
	Conductor of Tabernacle Choir and
Choral Society Salt Lake City.
	The “Tallyho” can be manufactured
here, and will, it is hoped, soon be put up-
on the market; the difficulty has been lack
of means, and yet it does seem very hard
when home products and articles are so
much talked of, that there cannot be means
furnished to manufacture what would
be so useful and economical in our own
community. The “Tallyho” was on ex-
hibition at the World’s Fair and elicited
considerable attention, but it wants
patronage as well as money. Those so
ardently interested in home work should
take pains to look into this matter. Wo-
men inventors are rare, and Utah should
make the most of those who have shown
ability in this line.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Tuesday evening, April 17th, a few
of the friends of Mrs. Emily H. Wood-
mansee met at her residence to show their
esteem and love for one, a sister and a poet,


who has always bravely defended the cause
of Zion under all adverse circumstances,
and in the days of prosperity has sung its
praises, and in joyful strains portrayed its
beauties and excellencies. Her poems are
all, of them rich with the inspiration of
Gospel truths.
	There were about thirty people present
and most of the sisters answered to the roll
call with an extract or verse, sometimes
more than one from Sister Woodmansee’s
own writings, which abound in sentiment
suitable to repeat on such occasions. There
were no formal addresses but some af-
fectionate expressions of good will and
such fellowship as promotes harmony and
an increase of love among friends whose
daily lives are full to overflowing of 
practical everyday matters in this work-a-
day world. Mrs. Woodmansee was
given a handsome copy of George Elliot’s
Poems. Mrs. E. B. Wells, in behalf of
the ladies,made the presentation; two of the
late lamented Sister Elizabeth Howards
daughters were present, all the way from
Big Cotton Wood. Mrs. Kate Howard
Brockbank, whose husband Elder Isaac
Brockbank, accompanied her and Mrs.
Mary Howard Brinton, Bishop Elias Mor-
ris and wife of the 15th Ward, and Bishop
George H. Taylor and wife of the 14th
Ward, Sisters M. Isabella Horne,
Lula Green Richards, Margaret
Y. Taylor, Mr. and Mrs Edward Steven-
son, Mrs. C. S. Thomas, Dr. E. R.
Shipp, Helen Mar Whitney, Mrs. Vilate
Romney and others, most of the sisters
spoke a few encouraging words, and Miss
Myrtle Woodmansee favored the company
with some piano music, giving choice selec-
tidns and delicious picnic added to the
social enjoyment, as refreshments ever do,
when the conversation is highly intellectual
and even spiritual.
	THE ladies of the World’s Fair Associa- 
tion of Davis County presented to the Salt
Take Temple the handsome set of furniture
made for their exhibit, and upholstered in
homemade silk (sage green,) the wood
carved in sego lilies, the floral emblem of
Utah. This furniture attracted much at-
tention in the parlor of the Utah Building,
it was a meritorious piece of workmanship
and now it is in a place appropriate to its 
artistic value. The design was by Utah
women and they may well be proud of
their brilliant success. A colored portrait of
Mrs. Amelia Spencer Rogers, surrounded
by some of the boys and girls of the Pri-
mary Association, handsomely framed, was
also given with the furniture. Mrs. Rogers
was the originator of the idea of our
Primary Associations, and the writer was
present when she first gave expression to
the thought to our former president and
leader, Sister Eliza R. Snow, who grasped
the situation, and with the assistance of
others as helps, organized the associations
that are now doing such good work
throughout the valleys of the mountains
we term Zion. The committee who pre-
sented the valuable exhibits to President
Lorenzo Snow in the Salt Lake Temple
were Sisters Lucy A. Clark, Jane Holt,
Athalia M. Steed and Anna Williams.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


THE Arena (Boston) closes its ninth
volume with the May number. The Arena
has made steady progress since its founda-
tion, and now firmly holds its place as one
of the three leading American reviews.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	[Concluded.]
	AFTERNOON SESSION:--Opened with
singing "O say what is truth" prayer by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, singing "For the
strength of the hills we bless thee" &c.
Minutes of previous October Conference
read (afternoon) Counselor L. M. Hart
Bear Lake Stake gave an excellent report
in a concise manner of the work in which
the sisters of that locality were engaged.
Mrs. Angeline Hinckley reported Millard
Stake as doing well and especially in regard
to the needy. Mrs. M. A. Grover in a 
very able manner spoke for Juab Stake, one
partiular feature of her remakrs being that
the young mothers come to meeting with
their babies. Mrs. M. A. Stoddard was
authorized to represent Cassia Stake in the
interest of which she did remarkably well.
	President Zina D. H. Young then spoke
upon the subject of silk culture and the
necessity of making preparations in time to
accomplish good results, explained in detail
some experiences in this direction, also
spoke particularly of the care of the sick
and of the ordinances of the Church, the
blessings which were to follow the be-
liever the cultivation of faith and the
virtue of prayer and of promoting greater
union.
	Counselor B. W. Smith made some ex-
cellent remarks about the Temple and the
sweet spirit prevailing in that sacred place,
thought all the Saints must be truthful,
upright and honest; increase in love and
good works, love each other and promote
the cause of righteousness and help for-
ward the interests of this kingdom; ex-
horted mothers to teach their children to be
industrious, and knew if they would, such
children would be more likely to grow up
honorable men and women, urged the
silk culture and the circulation of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, and many other home
industries and home subjects.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne gave out a notice con-
cerning the Woman's Store and the Circular
that had been prepared, solicited the
patronage of the women of the County,
thought the store should be better sus-
tained. Counselor Reese from Box Elder,
said some branches in the Stake were very
remote and could not be visited often but
once a year the President and others gener-
ally succeeded in reaching them; spoke
very highly of their President and  her
noble work.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards spoke very
interestingly upon a variety of subjects
urged the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT,
and to economize and do those things that
were necessary, felt that visiting the sick
and assisting and comforting them was in-
deed a labor of love; thought we should en-
courage silk raising, many of the trees
planted years ago are dead, but the people
should put out new ones, spoke of the
cyclones and many calamities that were
coming and felt if we wished to avoid these
things we must live near the Lord; those
who were aged should be diligent in season
and out of season and the young had no
time to lose.
	President F. A. Hammond of San Juan
Co. said he represented one of the largest
counties in area, but they only had eighty-
five votes, believed in woman suffrage, felt
that the Relief Society was a great power
and aid to the people, they had no Bishop's
trials, no family troubles, and no need of
difficulties, there were no whisky shops,
no gambling dens; the EXPONENT was ap-
preciated among them, he felt it was im-
portant for the sisters to have it and always
read it himself with great interest, the
speaker did’nt know much about seri-culture,
but he remembered the flax and tow, knew
how it could be utilized, the Lord has told
us, to adorn ourselves with our
own hands.
	President Z. D. H. Young made some
telling remarks about the EXPONENT urg-
ing the sisters to sustain it by their sub-
scription, asking those who did take it to
raise the right hand that she might see how
many there were; spoke of the request she
had made through the EXPONENT that all
the branches of the Relief Society should
study the lectures upon faith and seek to
get the spirit of them and that in so doing
they should be blest, said "have we left the
homes of our fathers and the graves of our
ancestors to come here and forsake the truth
and descend to lesser things? verily no, we
must keep the commandments of God in
that alone there is safety for us."
	The secretary, by request, read the
circular issued by the officers of the Wo-
man's Co-operative Store, which was com-
plete in itself and called for support from
the women of Zion, made some remarks up-
on subjects connected with the work of the 
society.
Mrs. Emily S. Richards spoke of the silk
of the Utah Exhibit in Chicago, described
the silk curtains, and the embroidery in
sego lilies, also the Provo and Logan cur-
tains and the linen exhibit from Springville,
and many other articles, described hur-
riedly her work at the World's Fair, and of
the great interest manifested in our women
and especially at a meeting in the organiza-
tion room where she had spoken of our
different associations, the Relief Society, the
Young Ladies' and the Primary, referred to
some influential women who had expressed
their astonishment, and Miss Anthony's
reply, in which she stated that she had
known of the organized work we had
been doing for years.  Mrs. Richards ex-
pressed her great satisfaction with our
position before the world and our connec-
tion with the National Council of Women,
explained how it first came about and
what an advantage it had been and would
be in the future.
	President J. N. Smith of San Luis
Colorado, spoke of the blessings and
privileges of the Gospel enjoyed by the
Saints in that locality, though all were poor,
and referred to it as the magnanimous state,
where women enjoyed and could exercise
the right of the ballot. President Ricks, of
Bannock Idaho, referred to the days of the
Prophet Joseph and gave some interesting
incidents of that period. President Haight
of Cassia, Idaho, related some facts that had
come to his notice in that Stake when the
Relief Society had accomplished very
material good, alluded to one instance
where the Society had helped to lift the
mortage from the property of a widow
which was a great temporal blessing, urged
the sisters to help in sustaining home
manufactories. President Horne gave
some notice of the circulars for the Wo-
man's Store and the congregation joined in
singing the Doxology. Benediction was
pronounced by President Thomas Ricks,
and Conference adjourned for six months.
	E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.
	THE Club met at Dr. Shipp's Office on
the evening of April 28th; an extra large
number of ladies’ in attendance. The roll
call was responded to with choice quota-
tions from the poets. Ella W. Hyde read
a paper which she had prepared, on the
“Life and work of John Howard Payne,”
author of the old but ever touching “Home,
Sweet Home." An original poem,
entitled, “Fickle April,” was read by Ruth
M. Fox, who was also the author. Olea
Shipp favored the club with music.
Dr. E. B. Ferguson read a very able and
scholarly paper on the subject of
Psychology, dealing especially with the
Intellect: showing its several divisions and
subdivisions, the actions and province of
this department of self as distinguished
from the other powers of the mind. 
	The second part of this subject, assigned
to Miss G. Woodmansee, was carried over
for one month by request. Mrs. A. E.
Bennion followed with a lecture on the
“Will.”' Explained the importance of the
position which it occupies in the mental
economy. By way of illustration, the
lady refered to the benefit the world has
reaped from the persistence or will of
Columbus, and other discoverers and inven-
tors. As examples of those possessing
wonderful will power she named, Patrick
Henry, Joseph Smith, Brigham Young
and among our intimate friends, E. B.
Wells, Dr. E. R. Shipp and others. How
would they have succeeded without this
power? Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, who was
pleased to be with the club again, after a
long absence, gave a recitation, entitled,
“The Old Church Organ,” as told by a
yankee; rendering it in her well remember-
ed and pleasing manner.  Pearl Russell
gave a pretty vocal selection and E. B.
Wells read a poem, entitled, “Leona.” 
	Miscellaneous business was attended to
and the critic wishing to be excused from
that task until next month, it was dispensed
with. Benediction by Mrs. Z. D. H.
Young. Refreshments and discussion fol-
lowed until the time for adjournment.
	Programe for May 31st:—Lecture on
Psychology, “The Feeling,” Gladys
Woodmansee; Music, Lizzie Shipp; Poem,
original, Dr. E. R. Shipp; Paper on
Theosophy, Dr. R. B. Pratt; members to 
respond to roll with sentiments from Pope. 
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
  
		JUAB STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society of the Juab Stake
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Dec. 15th,
1883. President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sang, “Come, dearest Lord, descend and
dwell,” prayer by Counselor Charles
Sperry. Continued by singing, “Come
thou desire of all thy Saints," minutes of
the last Conference read and approved.
President Pitchforth, in her opening ad-
dress, prayed that the Spirit of God might
rest upon her, as also those assembled that
every word might be dictated thereby.
Spoke at some length on the advancement
of the young, was very much interested in
the young ladies and gentlemen of Nephi;
asked the blessings of God on all present,
that at the close of our conference we can
say it is good to have met together. Sang,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salva-
tion."

[Column 2]
	Sister Wilkey represented First Ward of
Nephi, Sister Lerwell, Mona; Sister
Christenson Levan branches, all being in
excellent condition. Meetings were well
attended and a unity of' feeling existing in
their midst.
	Singing “Fear not, I am with thee.”
By the suggestion of President Pitchforth.
	Sister S. A. Cazier offered an inspired
prayer in behalf of Sister Udall. Sister
Udall having left the meeting to appear be-
fore the commissioners.
	Counselor Hannah Jones referred to the
prayer offered by Sister Cazier, she was
truly inspired; referred to Sister Wells’
speech in the suffrage meeting, had learned
more than she had ever known of that
association. Was in favor of the associa-
tion, and the rights of women.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the shadow
that had fallen on our meeting through the
arrest of Sister Udall. Sister Zina Young
had sent her love to the sisters, would very
much like to have been with them, desired
the sisters to cultivate the spirit of faith,
read the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine
and Covenants, advised that practice to be
introduced in all the branches of the Relief
Society. Not any of us were safe without
faith, we always need it. Spoke of the
good that had been wrought for Zion, the
benefits of the Salt Lake Temple and how
much good had been done there, referred to
the storing of grain, also the respect shown
to the Salt Lake Choir in attending the
World’s Fair, had been very much in-
terested in the reports of the sisters. Urged
them to cultivate more and greater faith
in our midst. Sang, Doxology. Prayer
by Brother Hartley,adjourned until 2 p. m.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—President Pitch-
forth persiding. Singing, “I know that
my Redeemer lives.” Prayer by President
Paxman. Sister Udall represented Second
Ward of Nephi in good condition, felt
grateful for the prayers offered up in her
behalf, had felt the influence of the prayer,
testified that it had been answered,
desired to prove true and faithful. Sister
Bryan felt blessed in a knowledge of the
Gospel, prayed God to bless all, with every
blessing that would be for our good.
	Sister Wells spoke at some length on
the silk industry, advised the sisters to
plant mulberry trees, and raise cocoons;
gave a discription of some of the exhibits,
at the World’s Fair, referred briefly to the
different meetings of women at Chicago.
	Reading by Sister Chappell, “He
willed it so.”
	President Pitchforth had been very
much interested in listening to the remarks
of Sister Wells, felt that the God we wor-
ship will protect us in the faith we believe
in. Was thankful for the gospel and all
the blessings we receive.
	Recitation by Sister S. A. Cazier,
“Wherefore and Why,” composed by
Sister Emily H. Woodmansee.
	President Paxman was pleased to have
Sister Wells with us to explain so intelle-
gently what transpired at the World’s Fair,
referred to the silk industry; felt that the
time would come when we would dress in
the silk raised here. Spoke of
the manifestations of God in many ways to
his poor and how full of gratitude we
should be, prayed God to be with us and
seal upon our hearts what had been said.
	Singing, “We thank thee O God for
a prophet,” benediction by Bro. Charles
Sperry.

[Column 3]
	RELIEF Society Conference, March 16,
1894, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sang, “Praise ye the Lord.” Prayer by
Brother Sperry. “My God the spring of
all my joys.” Elder John L. Nuttall was
the first speaker. Had become very much
interested in the Relief Society in all its
stakes and branches. Explained the new
organization of the Relief Society, said it
is a church organization, the same church,
the same laws and the same sisters; spoke
of the energy of President Young in these
societies dwelt at some length on the duties
of the officers and members of the Society,
also on the necessity of storing grain.
Choir sang, “Redeemer of Israel."
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.
	President Pitchforth then read the
Eureka yearly report, also a letter from the
president of the Levan branch, represent-
ing the Levan Ward in good condition,
spoke of the energy of the sisters and their
faithful labors, felt it a privilege to bear
testimony to the truth of this work, hoped
that the Lord would accept our repentance
for what we have failed to do in the past
and be merciful to us in the future.
	Sister Wilkey represented First Ward and
Sister Udall Second Ward of Nephi as being
in excellent condition; a unity of feelings
existing with officers and members.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation."
Counselor Bigler was very much interested
in listening to the reports, also the speakers;
felt that we were truly blessed of the Lord
at all times. Counselor Jones said her
soul rejoiced in the blessings of God to this
people, felt that all the branches in the Juab
Stake were filled with the same spirit, spoke
of the growth of the soctiey, and the in-
telligence of the young.
	Sister Bryan knew that the work was
true, wished to live worthy of all the
blessings in store for the faitliful. The
Lord knew how to chastise his people, 
He always did it in a proper manner; asked
the blessings of God upon all present.
	President Pitchforth presented the officers
of the Juab Stake, which were sustained by
unaminous vote. Elder James Paxman
said his heart had been made glad to hear
the excellent reports of the sisters, the
work of the Relief Society was a great
labor, the sisters hearts were as large as
mountains, had nothing but blessings in his
heart for them; spoke of the good results of
a loving kind influence at home, the
responsibility rests upon mothers, your
mission is at home, let home be first, other
duties after. Spoke of the testimonies of
the sisters and the good they had done.
	President Paxman, said if we could
retain what had been said we should be
truly benefited by coming, referred to the
Relief Society, said that the bishops had
testified to him of the help and comfort the 
sisters were to them. Spoke on the storing
of grain, encouraged the storing of corn and
beans as Brother Nuttall had previously
referred to it, thought that the articles of
faith instructed by Sister Young to be read
in each society would be of great benifit to
us, spoke in praise of the officers of the
society, the Lord was with them at all
times to sustain them and build them up.
Concluded by saying “may the Lord pour
out his blessings upon all.” After singing
and prayer conference adjourned for three
months.
	ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH, Sec


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W.S.A.

	MINUTES of W.S.A. held April 17th,
1894, third Vice President Julia Druce in
the chair. Singing "Search for Freedom"
prayer by Mrs. E.M. Price, singing “Help
the Working women.” Roll called by the
Secretary. Minutes of the previous meet-
ing read and approved. Dr. M. Hughes
Cannon being the first on the program
responded, gave a very interesting address
on the rights and and ability of woman, dwell-
ing on the force of character of the
Spartan women and the courage of the
Roman women; recited "The Gladiator."
Spoke on women being accused of too
much slavery to fashion to have anything
to do with politics brought to bear the time
when men shaved off their hair and wore
wigs. Mrs. E.M. Price spoke very
eloquently on Queen Elizabeth's Statesman-
ship. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde spoke on Suf-
frage proper; thought there was not the
shadow of a doubt but what we would one
day get the franchise, exhorted us to study
the suffrage subject. Mrs. May Talmage
was invited to say a few words, stated she
had been absent so long did'nt feel prepared
said it was the same with suffrage as other
things we must study and keep ourselves
bright. Mrs. Fox made some interesting
remarks; recited a poem “My Fortieth
Birthday” composed by herself which
she did in a very sympathetic manner.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball Honorary
President gave a short address and alluded
to the honor conferred upon Mary the
mother of the Savior in a very interest-
ing way and referred to traditions concern-
ing Mary and the angel Gabriel.
	Mrs. M.A. Freeze thought if immoral
men like Colonel Breckenridge could help
make laws, when the women got the
franchise they would elect better men.
President E.J. McFarlane suggested we
had a spirited poem recited or read every
meeting, her remarks were followed by a
few words of counsel from Vice President
Ardella Eardly, the ladies adjourned to the
parlor and were entertained with music and
singing by Miss Fay McCune. Meeting
was then adjourned for one month.
	M.E. IRVINE, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	MRS. LOUISE CHANDLER MOULTON WILL
sail for Europe about May 26.
	MR. and MRS. RUDYARD KIPLING and
the baby Kipling have sailed for England,
where they will spend the summer.
	JOHN BRISBEN WALKER, publisher of
the Cosmopolitan, has decided to move his
plant and publication office from New York
to Irvington-on-the-Hudson, where he now
resides. 
	MRS. OLIVE THORNE MILLER has put
into a book called "A Bird-Lover in the
West” her observations and experiences of
birds in Ohio, Colorado, and Utah.
	WHILE a student at Oxford, Mr. Glad-
stone was one of the competitors for the
Ireland scholarship but failed. "Desultory
beyond belief,” is what the principal
examiner wrote on Gladstone’s paper, and
he went so far as to charge the future states-
man with “throwing dust into the
examiner’s eyes, like a man who, when
asked, who wrote ‘God Save the-King?’
answered ‘Thomson wrote ‘Rule Britanna.”


UTAH SILK ASSOCIATION
BYLAWS.

Article I.—Name.
	THIS Association shall be known as the
Utah Woman’s Silk Association.
Article 2.—Object. 
	The object of this association shall be to
encourage silk culture in Utah by dis-
seminating information, distributing silk
worm eggs and acting as a central bureau
for the sale of cocoons and the manufacture 
of silk.
Article 3.—Officers and Executive Board
	The officers shall consist of a Board of
Directors of seven members, to be elected
annually by the Association; and the
Directors within a week after their election
shall from their number, elect a President,
Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Article 4.—Membership.
	Any woman residing in Utah may become
a member of this Association, by signing
the by-laws and paying an initiation fee of
twenty-five cents. The membership fee
and all other moneys raised by the Associa-
tion may be used for the expense of the
Association at the direction of the Executive
Board.
Article 5.—Meetings.
	The Board of Directors shall meet fort-
nightly on Tuesday at 11 a. m. A quorum
shall consist of four members. The As-
sociation shall meet twice a year at such
time and place as the Board of Directors
shall designate. One third of the member-
ship of the Association shall constitute a 
quorum.
Article 6.—Amendments.
	These by-laws may be amended at any
regular meeting of the Board of Directors
by a two thirds majority vote of the mem-
bers present, notice having been given at a
previous meeting.
Margaret B. Salisbury, President; E. B.
Wells, Vice-President; C. M. Allen, Secre-
tary Margaret A. Caine, Treasurer. 
	Board of Directors:—Margaret B. Salis
bury, Isabella Bennett, Zina D. H. Young,
Amelia F. Young, Emmeline B. Wells,
Corinne M. Allen, Margaret A. Caine.


OBITUARY.

	IT is with feelings of sadness we have been
called to part with one of our sisters. Sister
Amanda Person who suddenly and unexpectedly
departed this life on the morning of the 24, of Jan.
at her home near Sandy, the cause of her death
being premature child-birth, after a brief sick-
ness of only a few short hours.
	She was born in Ostamar, Sweden, her age
twenty seven years and two months and was the
wife of Henry M. Person. She was the mother of
five children, four of whom, including the in-
fant buried with her, are dead. One only, a little
boy five years old, being left.
	Sister Amanda Person joined the church in 1878
and emigrated with her parents in 1880, her
residence being at Sandy, where she gained love.
and confidence of all who were associated with her
She was a true wife and mother and a faithful
Latter-day Saint. She was a member of the
Relief Society. The funeral services were held
in Sandy Meeting House the 27th Jan. The
large concourse of sympathizing friends evidenc-
ed the respect and esteem, in which the family
were held.
Dear Sister Amanda, thou art gone 
	To dwell in realms above,
To await the resurrection, morn
When you’ll meet with those you love.
	WILHILMINA OLSEN, Prest.
	HILDA LARSON, Sec.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:
Leave Salt Lake:		Arrive Salt Lake:
*7:45 a. m.			12:40 p. m.
10:20 “				*4:00 “
2:00 p. m.			4:40 “
3:00 “				6:10 “
†6:30 "				†10:10 “
*Daily except Sunday. †Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50¢
S. H. H. Clark,			D. E. BURLEY
Oliver W. Mink,			GEN. AGT PASS. DPET.
E. Ellery Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.

[Refers to the above names]
Receivers.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of 
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils and Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
	and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimme
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. B
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty

No. 41 S. 	WEST TEMPLE STRTE
			Opp. Grand Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 22 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,  JUNE 1, 1894.  No.18.


CONTENTS:

	No Black For Me—Lillie T. Freeze. A Few
Suggestions—I. P. P. Address—Mrs. Margaret
Gaddy. Woman Suffrage Column. Decoration
Day. 'Ladies Semi-monthly Meetings—Lydia D
Alder. R S. Reports. Miscellaneous. Obitu-
ary. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—The First Of June. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—Where Is My Baby—Alofa. United
—Ellis R. Shipp. “Tis More Blessed To Give
Than Receive”—A. M. Blanchard. Woman Suf-
frage—J. S. Robinson.


[Column 1]
WHERE IS MY BABY. 

WHERE, where is the darling baby boy
	That I left but a fortnight gone by;
Where, where is the boy with the pretty round
	cheek
	And the bright, merry laughing, blue eye? 
There were tears in the eyes of his mother, I 
	know
	When we paused on the bank of the brook
To which she and the baby had wandered with
	me,
	And I saw on her face the sad look— 
As I took Harold up from his carriage and said,
	‘‘Kiss papa, he’s going away—
God bless you and mamma, kiss papa again—
	Now good-by for I must go to day.”
I had noticed I say, the sad look in her eye 
	But I knew duty called me to go,
And I tried to believe it not strange in the least 
	That the parting would trouble her so.
So I took up my satchel and hurried away, 
	With their kisses still warm on my face;
And my bosom still throbbing with joy and with
	pain,
	Both effects of the parting embrace.
Oft I paused to look back as I wandered on,
	And I saw her standing still
By the baby’s carriage, yet unmoved,
	On the bank of that rippling rill,
And she lifted our baby high that he 
	Might see me once again—
Ah! had she a premonition then
	Of this coming hour of pain?
Well, I did not keep them long in sight
For the path was a winding one
	But I kept that picture in my mind
	From morn till the set of sun;
And my heart was full of an honest pride
	In my wife and baby boy,
For them was my whole ambition stirred -
	My life, my hope and joy.
I was not long gone - two weeks or so,
	When a messenger came to say
That my baby was somewhat ailing
	And I'd better come home that day.
Not very ill, he told me,
	But his mother was worried some,
And they fancied she'd feel much better
	In spirit if I were home.
The darkness had long been gathered
	Ere our cottage was in sight—
And my heart just sank within me
	When I saw there was a light
Shining brightly in the window,
	I just dropped my aching head, 
And almost aloud I murmured:
"Ah, my little boy is dead!” 

[Column 2]
And t'was so. His mother met me
	At the door and cried aloud,
“Tom, oh, Tom!” Then sank near fainting;
	And I raised the snowy shroud
From the pale face of our baby,
	Ah, there was no ray of light,
The spirit from that limp cold form
	Had long since taken flight.’’
So I ask, where is the baby
	That I left not long ago?
Hark! a whispering spirit answers
	All my aching heart would know:
"He is safe in angels, keeping—
	You shall meet him yet again,
Just as winning—just as pretty—
	In a world that’s free from pain,
You shall clasp your precious darling
	To your leaping, joyful heart;
And in realms of endless glory
	You shall dwell, no more to part.”
	ALOFA
April 2, 1894


[Column 1]	
	NO BLACK FOR ME.
No black for me, dear love, when I am dead;
	Shroud not that precious face in funeral fold,
But wear a soft white veil upon your head,
	As fits a saintly woman growing old.
No black for me, why, when eternal day
	Has burst in glory on my dazzled sight,
And God’s own angels ear my soul away,
	Should my twin spir[-] bow in woe and night?
Let me be carried from my cheerful home, 
	Like sunshine out of sunshine, flowers from
	flowers; 
Let maids in white and little children come
	And cheer with tender song the lonely hours.
For you will miss me, though some path from
	heaven
May lead straight from my glory to your
	heart; 
And I may come like Jacob’s angels giving
	Some thrill, some joyous message to impart.
So keep the light about you; death is light,
	And life, and power to pure and chastened
	love,
And death is only dark to doubt, and sight
	That has no visions from the world above.
	ALICE ROBBINS.
	The above beautiful poem was written
many years ago, while the custom of wear-
ing deep mourning held absolute sway
among all civilized people, but the writer,
like a true prophetess, caught glimpses of
light from afar. Some spirits are destined 
to be forerunners of the truth in all ages.
And though they may be laughed at or
scorned for expressing sentiments ahead of
the time in which they live, the truth will
be recognized and established in the on ward
march of progress.—“Though learned but
slowly and by few.” Thought on the in-
consistency of this custom of “mourning”
was first awakened in my mind when, but
a child, I heard Mrs. S. M. Kimball, now
Honorary President of the Woman’s Suf-
frage Association of Utah, say in one of 
the sisters’ meetings held in the 14th ward
Assembly Hall, then heavily draped in black
on the occasion of Bishop Hoagland’s
funeral, the somber hangings still remained

[Column 2]
in place, and Sister Kimball remarked that
they had a gloomy and chilling effect upon
the spirits of those present, and she said in
earnest appeal; “When my worn and weary
spirit has entered its rest there will be no
occasion to mourn for me, and please let
the drapery at my funeral be WHITE,” My
judgment approved her choice, and I have
watched with satisfaction the growth of
this sentiment among the Latter-day Saints
whose faith teaches them to mourn with a
“glorious hope.”
	The women of our faith have been called
“the remodelers of society,” and it is true
that we aim to adopt all improvements con-
sistent with the spirit of true progress, and
we are striving to discourage all customs
that have not the support of sound reason. 
We claim to have received, through direct
revelation, superior intelligence regarding
death, and draping ourselves in the folds of
the mourning apparel is not in harmony with
the glorious light and hope beyond the
grave given to us by the religion of Jesus
Christ. Then why should we cling to a
false custom of our forefathers so suggestive
of the dark ages in which it originated?
	In a recent number of the EXPONENT I
read with interest the following paragraph:
“A dispatch from London says:—One of
the  largest conferences in the interest of
funeral reform ever held opened in West-
minister. It is under the auspices of the
Burial, Funeral and Mourning Reform As-
sociation, and its object is to advocate the
exercise of economy and simplicity in all
funeral appurtenances, and the disuse of
crape scarfs, feathers, velvet trappings and
similar emblems of mourning.” Perhaps
the beautiful example of Henry Ward
Beecher has had some influence in forming
or reforming public opinion on this subject. 
It was his request that a wreath of flowers
instead of crape be hung on the door of his
residence after his death, that the blinds re-
main up and the rooms be lighted, and at
his funeral his family should appear in their
usual Sunday attire. Instead of the cus-
tomary dismal drapery of his casket, it was
laid in a bed of white flowers. To be con-
sistant with our belief we, as a people,
should gather the bright and beautiful about
us, and when sorrow enters our hearts and
homes it is our duly to court all cheering
and comforting influences. One young
mother, when asked why she did not wear
mourning at the death of her child, ans-
wered, “Because I feel sorrowful and
gloomy enough without it."
	That grief is most sincere which shuns
observation. There is a natural delicacy in
the human heart, especially of sensitive and
refined natures, which shrinks from exhi-
bitions of great joy or sorrow, and such
would gladly dispense with all the
paraphernalia of mourning, but have not
the courage to defy a long established
fashion. Is not our sorrow as sacred as our
love? Then why display it to the public
gaze? The idea of fashion limiting the
length of time that we should appear to
mourn for our loved ones! or designating
the intensity thereof by “deep mourning,”
“half mourning” etc, as our fashionable


[Column 1]
woman in describing her grief for “her late
lamented husband” said “my grief was
so intense that the hem of my veil was half
a yard deep and touched the bottom of my
dress!” Delicacy would suggest retaining
the only part of the mourning apparel of
any utility, the veil, which however need not
necessarily be black, and its service is of no
avail if worn fluttering down the back, as
the present style demands. As for mourn-
ing ornaments, who ever saw black flowers?
Fashion and style may outrage nature, while
true art imitates it; and to wear black
flowers is in my opinion an insult to the
lovely hued flowery kingdom, none of which
were ever known to turn black even on the
most solemn occasion—the death of their
own kindred. While I deem it a duty to
seek consolation and happiness from all 
sources, and place ourselves under pleasant 
and cheerful influences, I have mentally ex-
claimed, “Consistency thou art a jewel!”
while watching stylish mourning suits with
crape trimming gracefully waving through
the gay dance, while the smiling faces of
the wearers betoken more joy than sorrow.
	On pleasure excursions and at places of
public amusement the mourning dress ap-
pears out of season. When one's feelings
are under sufficient control to allow the
habitual mingling in gay society, good taste
and sincerity would suggest the wearing
of a more suitable costume. There are
many good reasons for discarding this
fashion. How often does it mislead in re-
gard to the feelings which it is supposed to
portray? For instance, one widow whose
matrimonial experiences has been one scene
of conflict, unmarked by respect or affection,
and perhaps while sueing for a divorce,
death kindly releases her instead of the
law, while her neighbor loses a congenial
affectionate partner and is overwhelmed
with genuine grief. Both wear mourning.
Which is the mourner? The heart broken
mother lays her dearest treasure in the
grave, and the woman, who has waited
impatiently for the death of some distant
relative whose money she will inherit, both
don mourning. Which one mourns?
	Then the expense and inconvenience of
the custom is enough to relegate it to the
past, especially by the masses. The sup-
port of the family is taken away, sickness
has already incurred debt which the family
must still increase by getting the mourning
outfit, or be considered lacking in respect
for the dead. Extra and unnecessary ex-
penses are thus laid upon the widow when
she is least able to sustain the expense
which must become an injustice to children
among the poor, for the purchase of the
mourning outfit would, in some instances,
be sufficient to pay a year’s schooling for a
family. Can a wife or daughter show re-
spect for a husband or father by bowing to
the dictates of this fashion, while the name
of the deceased is whispered hopelessly
among his creditors?
	Above all things, let us not crush the
natural, carefree cheerfulness of the chiidren
between the folds of this dismal garb, after
any sorrow, help them to recover a happy
frame of mind as quickly as possible.
Children’s grief often arises from witnessing
that of others. Sad realities will come soon
enough to check their fountain of happiness.
Let it flow while it can without restraint.
It may require some effort for parents to
entirely abandon the custom of wearing
mourning, when they have been taught
from childhood to regard it as a necessity in

[Column 2]
bereavement, but we have come out of
Babylon to rear our children in the light of
revelation, let us keep their minds free from
traditions and prejudices born of ignorance
and superstition. Let reason, good taste,
and a delicate sense of the appropriate on all
occasions be our guide, and let each person’s
individuality assert itself where matters of
the heart are concerned.
	I know many noble, brave women who
have mourned their beloved dead with the
most acute sense of loss and bereavement,
yet wore no outward symbol of the grief
within, and can sensible people honor them
less for possessing delicacy and refinement
that cannot be overcome by that whimsical
monarch, Dame Fashion? We are one with
those who are courageous enough to brave
public opinion and maintain a respectful
disregard for the long established custom of
wearing mourning, and will not help to
perpetuate the growing tendency to un-
necessary expense and display at the
funerals of our loved ones.
	“Bury me quietly when I die.”
	LILLIE T. FREEZE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
A FEW SUGGESTIONS.
Editor Exponent:
	SOME time ago there was an article in the
EXPONENT about “Crowded Out” women
or mothers without homes of their own.
	Reading and knowing something about
aged mothers, and mothers who are
crowded out of homes, as it were, but are
not so well situated in this world as to have
homes of their own, as the writer has; now
she is in the evening of life and a blessing
for which she feels very thankful to her
Father in heaven, and esteems it as a very
great and inestimable blessing. I wish
there were more women and mothers that
could say the same, I know there might be
a great many more, if they had husbanded
their spare means, those that were blest
with any, for a future day; but a gre a
many have carried out the Irishman’s
policy, he said, “if he never laid anything
up for a rainy day it would never come,”
and a great many have to bear the conse-
quence of so doing; its very hard for them
after raising large families to man and wo-
manhood. I heard of one grandma los-
ing her husband, her natural protector, he
had been very good to her and to their
children while living; after his death she
was soon obliged' to admit she was too old
to live alone, well she began to think she
could be useful in some of her children’s
families, to pay for her board, but
she was soon made to see that none of her
children to whom she had given the best
part of her life, welcomed her into their
families, and if they did take her in, it
was on certain conditions. One would say
"I have trouble enough already with my own
family without caring for her, let some of
the others take her,’’another one would say
“I have had more than my share already.”
The daughter-in-law said “if she married the
son she did not marry the mother, and
could not be bothered with her, their tastes
were so different." Her daughter said she was
both willing and able to take care of her
mother but her husband was not—he
thought she was a little disagreeable. The
writer begins to think by this time that
grandma has had trouble enough with one
and another of her children to make her a
little disagreeable.

[Column 2]
	I am afraid such doings would have
made me, so I am not quite so angelic yet. I
think the tie between a mother and her
children ought to be more of a divine nature
than this appears.
	How do such heartless or rather thought-
less sons or daughters know but that their
children will treat them so when they grow
old, with such an example set before them
it would hardly be reasonable to expect any-
thing else; let such parents try and cultivate
a little more sense or reason where its
needed, and try to insure for themselves an
easier time in the future by showing their
children how grandparents ought to be
treated, for much more may be learned by
example than precept.
	Then there are children that think their
mothers are very plain and homely looking,
then they must begin to manoeuver a little
to keep her in the back ground all they
can, they forget to think that she was in
her young days handsome before those
wrinkles and furrows came into her face,
through the sacrifices she had to make by
toiling early and late to make them com-
fortable and to get a little education for
them. Yes indeed some of them will say,
“mighty little education we got to what
some others did," they forget to reckon the
difference there is in the circumstances of
different families, and some mothers are
snubbed by their children for not doing
better than they did by them; let them try
and do better if they can to their children,
under the same circumstances, that their
mothers labored under in raising them.
	We are aware there are some mothers
that do not do as well by their children as
they might have done, but they are the ex-
ception not the rule; we feel to sympathize
with mothers that have such children and
that are ‘‘crowded out,” as it were, or with-
out  homes of their own and, no means of
their own to support themselves with; it is
much better nowadays than it once was for
the aged and infirm, none need to suffer for
the necessaries of life to sustain themselves,
with particularly those that belong to the
household of faith. I am growing old
myself, but I do not think it any disgrace
to do so, but I do think there is much hon-
or to those that can look back on a well
spent life, but a great many aged ones feel, 
While passing through the storm.
	The piercing bitter blast;
But oh, how sweet will be the calm,
	When all their cares are  pased.
	Let us one and all put away evil and
cultivate the gifts and graces of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ, and cherish the pure love
of God in our hearts, and always remem-
ber that we are very far from that perfection
we hope to attain to, and remembering
that real happiness consists in trying to
make others so, and in so doing, don’t for-
get the aged and “crowded out” mothers,
as it were.
	A mother, but not a crowded out or
homeless one, I P. P.


MRS. CHARLES HENROTIN,  of Chicago,
has received from the Sultan of Turkey
the decoration of the Order of Chefakat.
This is the second highest decoration in the
Ottoman Empire, and it was conferred upon
Mrs. Henrotin because of her services to
Turkey as vice-president of the Woman's
Branch of the World's Congress Auxiliary.
This is Mrs. Henrotin's second recognition
by a foreign sovereign, and it is intimated
that she will soon receive a third decoration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


UNITED.
[To Mr. and Mrs. Earnest White, from their
sincere friend.]
Sparkling and clear, at the head of the mountain,
Rise two little streams, each from its own foun-
tain;
Yet gradually nearer, as onward they go,
Now in one common course together they flow.
Environed by banks that will not break o’er,
’Till at last they have found the ocean’s far shore,
Each lost in the other, now they are one;
United together, till life’s-work is done.
Two beautiful lives on the roadway of time,
Beginning so early round each other to twine,
Growing dearer and fonder, year after year,
Sharing each pleasure as well as each tear;
At the altar of faith, united and sealed,
“Unto life eternal”—by powers revealed! 
Their hopes, their misson, their lives are now
one:
United even after this life is done.
In love, with a blessing, we fervently pray,
That their aims ne’er diverge, nor their love go
astray;
Reinforced by each other’s ne’er ceasing aid
Ever faithful and true in sunshine and shade!
May these lives, as those streams, ever flowing
together,
Remain undivided, in clouds and fair weather,
Together move onward to rapture divine,
Eternally joined in the ocean of time.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Oct. 1893, Salt Lake City.


“TIS MORE BLESSED TO GIVE THAN
RECEIVE.”

POVERTY and want are abroad in the land,
	The widow and orphan are here,
There’s a chance to do good for the liberal,
		hand,
	And to dry up the sad mourner's tear.
The Savior said, when here on the earth, 
	And his words I most firmly believe,
I esteem them of value, I deem them of worth
	“Tis more blessed to give than receive.”
If fortune has lavished upon thee her wealth,
	Thou art bless’d in thy “basket and store,”
With plenty to eat, enjoyment of health,
	Forget not to succor the poor.
Thy neighbor may be, in his poverty,
	More wretched than thou would’st believe.
Remember if he asks a favor of thee,
	’Tis more blessed to give than receive.
O, I have not enough, some will say,
	To keep up appearance and style,
If I give this away, I may need it some day,
	So I think I shall keep it awhile.
This is not the spirit of Jesus I trow,
	They who think thus themselves do deceive,
For the Savior he taught in his mission below,
	’Tis more blessed to give than receive.
Remember these precepts, and by them do live,
	Let charity dwell in thy breast,
Be thou ever ready and willing to give
	To the needy, the sick and distressed,
If the beggar should ask for bread at thy door, 
	Be sure that his wants you relieve,
He lends to the Lord who gives to the poor,
	’Tis more blessed to give than receive.
						A. M. BLANCHARD.


A GOOD book is one that tells, in good
English, its story: sees no necessity for
using foreign words, and does not quote
from the Arabic or the Sanscrit, as if the
author had written it with the “Ency-
clopedia Britannica” beside him.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS

MRS. MARGARET GADDY.
	Mrs. President and Ladies:—I am
pleased to meet with you today, although I
did not come with the calculation of mak-
ing a speech; but I always respond to any
call made upon me to speak in behalf of
woman, and their great deeds; for their
footsteps can be traced from prehistoric
times to the present, although she has
worked under great disadvantages. It can
be shown that among all primitive people, 
she was the originator of most of the
industrial arts, and when they became
lucrative, man appropriated them, and wo-
man was pushed aside. While man, the pro-
tector, was engaged in fighting and hunt-
ing, woman constructed the rude
semblance of a home; she dressed the game
and cooked it; she ground the grain between
two stones and made the bread; she dressed
the skins of animals and fashioned them
into awkward garments. Impelled by the
necessity for its use, she invented the
needle. She twisted the fibers of plants in-
to thread. She invented the shuttle and
used it in weaving fabrics, in which she
often mingled feathers, wool and down,
which contributed both to the beauty and
warmth of it. She was the first potter and 
moulder of clay into jars and other utensils
for domestic use, and dried them in the sun.
She originated basket making. She was
the first to give encouragement to Columbus
after he had solicited aid for years from
man. She shamed man into doing his duty,
by offering to  pawn her jewels, then she
was pushed aside. Man said, “No, keep
your jewels, this is our business; and we
will attend to it.” She stepped aside, but
watched with great anxiety the progress 
made by man: and when a new country
was found, and men were going to make a
colony, or lay the foundation of a nation,
women were ready to come with them,
knowing that man could never build a
nation without her help. They worked to-
gether a long time, and grew independent.
They paid taxes to mother country, but
were not allowed to say what should be
done with the money that they sent to
their mother country. The men got mad
and the women got mad too. They de-
clared that taxation without representation
was tyranny, and that they would stand
it no longer “No!” said woman, “I
would fight for your independence, and we
will help you.’’ She did help him in every
way she could, and they gained their
independence, and the mother country was
compelled to acknowledge them an in-
dependent nation.
	Then a few men went to themselves to
make a constitution to govern this indepen-
dent nation, but they never asked woman
to go with them. No, woman was pushed
to one side again, and she has been so used
to being pushed back that I believe today
that women are the worst enemies we have
to suffrage.
	John J. Ingalls said when all the women
asked for the ballot they would get it, but
they did’nt wait for all the negroes in the
South to ask for the ballot, but they gave it
to them whether they wanted it or not. I
believe if the women would all be
Democrats the Democratic party would
work for their principles, or, if they would
all be Republicans, the Republican party
would work for their franchise; but let us
be citizens, honest, upright citizens, work-

[Column 2]
ing for the good of the nation and the
whole human family.
	As to the subject before us in regard to
having a plank put in the State Constitu-
tion, I am in favor of it when the proper
time comes. And here I will use the
language of an eminent statesman of old:
“Sink or swim, survive or perish, live or
die, I am for woman suffrage.”


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

W. S. A. 
	MINUTES of W. S. A held at the resi-
dence of Mrs. A. W. McCune, May 15th.
President E. J. MacFarlane in the chair.
Sang “Our Country.” Prayer by M. E.
Bassett. Roll called. Paper on “Mary
Queen of Scotts,” (original,) read by Louise
Badger. Dr. Ferguson urged having par-
lor meetings, more would attend; referred
to an anti-suffrage society formed in New
York, they called themselves “The Butter-
flies,” and we all know butterflies soon
fade and die. Ella W. Hyde offered the
Fourteenth Ward Relief Society Hall as
our future meeting place. After some dis-
cussion it was voted upon and accepted.
Then followed some remarks in regard to
parlor meetings—a number of parlors were
offered, and it was decided to hold one at
Mrs. Lucy B. Young’s on the 29th of the
present month. As this was the last day
of our meeting at Mrs. McCune’s (as the
lady is leaving the city,) sentiments expres-
sive of our gratitude for the use of her
home were then in order. Each one present
responded in an exceedingly pleasing man-
ner. The response of our hostess was in a
peculiarly happy strain, making us feel she 
had been the one to be benefitted.
	Dainty refreshments were then served by
our estimable friend, and the time spent in
a very pleasant manner in conversation
and music.
				M. E. Irvine, Sec.


DECORATION DAY.

	THE New York World of Sunday, April
29th, had very good likenesses of the men
who voted for the woman’s amendment in
the constitutional convention of New York
in 1868. It suggested to me, that some fit-
ting tribute should be paid on “Decoration
Day” to those who for many years have
championed our cause in Congress and the
various State Legislatures. The advocates
of woman’s suffrage should see that the
graves of those who have passed away
are decorated each year with immortelle
wreaths and flowers.
	Soldiers in a great moral warfare, who
must face ridicule and the sneers of the
multitude for generations, must have more
courage and endurance, than those who
face the cannon’s mouth on the field of
battle, for a few hours. Women in all the
States should take some pains to get the
names and photographs of their champions
and have them handsomely framed in groups
and hung in public buildings as  well as in
their own homes, for the admiration of com-
ing generations. If the members of the
present constitutional conventions in New
York and Kansas had the assurance that
they would be thus honored and remember-
ed by their country women, the word
male would no doubt be expunged from
both constitutions. — Elizabeth Cady Stanton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,					JUNE 1, 1894


THE FIRST OF JUNE.

BRIGHAM YOUNG'S ANNIVERSARY

	THIS the first day of June is quite a red-
letter day among our people, on account of
its being the anniversary of the birthday of
Brigham Young, who presided over the
Church so many years and was also truly a
Moses unto this people, a pioneer and leader
into these mountain vales, where he found-
ed towns and cities, and established order
and maintained peace. It is useless to at-
tempt to recount his good deeds, his enter-
prise, his great leadership, his power and
ability in organization, extending into every
department of progression.
	Let his memory be kept ever fresh and
green by our children and children’s child-
ren.
	His family have issued invitations to all
the relatives of the illustrious departed
President to gather in the parlors of the
historic Lion House and perpetuate his
memory and the family traditions by as-
sociating themselves together, and becom-
ing better acquainted with each other, and
the history of their ancestry. It is a beau-
tiful tribute to the departed hero and vener-
ated Saint.
	The children of this people should be
taught to observe his birthday anniversary,
and those who have charge of the young
as instructors might arrange fitting amuse-
ments and testimonials to be observed, and
keep the day in remembrance.
	The Primary Associations have some of
them made it a holiday instead of May day,
because of the weather being more
propitious for out-door enjoyment, and also
as an ovation (so to speak) to one to whom
we are all of us more or less indebted for
the great pioneer work, that made this
country habitable for us and a desirable
place to dwell in. The illumination of the
Salt Lake Temple in honor of the day was a
part of the program, and music, speeches,
song and recitations were rendered by the
family. In our next issue of the paper
some further notice will be made of the
proceedings.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE annual meeting of the Relief Society
of South Cottonwood was held in the
meeting house, May 17th, Mrs. Mary Raw-
lins presiding. The hall was pretty well
filled and the annual reports made a very
good showing: Bishop Rawlins was present

[Column 2]
and gave the sisters great credit for the
relief given to those in needy circumstances
and their general labors, spiritual and tem-
poral.
	TUESDAY, April 24th, we attended the an-
nual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the
7th Ward of this city, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
presiding. The hall was tastefully ar-
ranged and the decorations were superb,
flowering plants and early fruit blossoms.
Miss Rose Wallace gave a most interesting
sketch of Emma Smith, wife of Joseph the
Prophet, the first President of the Relief
Society. Other speakers were, Sisters M. I.
Horne, E. S. Taylor, M. Y. Dougall and
E. B. Wells. Refreshments were delicious
and gracefully served by the young girls.
Certainly the Young Ladies Association in
the seventh Ward is making great
spiritual progress.
	THE Woman’s National Press Associa-
tion, in acknowledging courtesies received
during their trip to the Golden Gate, Mid-
winter Fair, Woman’s Congress etc., pub-
lished in the Washington Times, Washing-
ton D. C., mention in connection with rail-
roads to whom the Association was in-
debted for kindness and liberality, the gene-
rosity of the "Saltair Railroad company at
Salt Lake City for a trip to the noble
pavilion at the Lake,” thanking them with
others for the favor. “Likewise they re-
turn sincere thanks to the Utah Woman’s
Press Club of Salt Lake for its generous
greeting, for a drive throughout the city
and for other courtesies." This notice is
officially signed by Mary S. Lockwood
President and M. E. Torrence, Secretary,
and is published in other leading papers of
the capitol and other places throughout the
country.
	THURSDAY, May 3rd, was the anniversary
of the birthday of two of our dear sisters,
Susan H. Wells and Bathsheba W. Smith,
and as they are intimate friends, a tea party
was given in honor of the day at the resi-
dence of Sisters L. A. and S. H. Wells
which was a very pleasant affair. The
guests were few but all dear old friends,
whose greetings were sincere and heartfelt.
Miss Kate Wells and her sisters Miss May
Wells and Mrs. Annette Culmer did the
honors in a very graceful way, and the
delicacies served at the tea were most de-
licious, and highly appreciated. These old
fashioned home-like visits are far more
enjoyable than the crowded tea parties
where everybody meets everybody and
that’s all. The friends whom one has
known to be ever true in adversity as well
as prosperity, should hold sweet converse
now and then from the busy world apart,
for the saying of George Eliot is indeed true.
	"The deepest hunger of a faithful heart
	Is faithfulness."

	TUESDAY, May 29th, a very enjoyable
dinner party was given by Brother and
Sister Laron Pratt at their residence. The
principal guests present were, President
Woodruff, wife and daughter; President
George Q. Cannon and wife; President
Joseph F. Smith and wife; President Angus
M. Cannon and wife; Dr. J. M. Benedict,
wife, son and daughter; John Q. Cannon
Editor Deseret News, and wife; Sisters Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, E. B.
Wells, Mrs Thomas Holgate, Mrs John
Cowley, Dr. E. S. Barney and Miss Ada
Patterson. Besides the pleasant social con-
versation and excellent and well served
dinner, there was an appropriate
after-dinner speech by President

[Column 3]
George Q. Cannon, and later, singing
and instrumental music by Miss Maude
Pratt and her sister Hermie, and some
pleasing exercises of the instruction given
to the Deaf and Dumb in that department
of the University and the Sunday School.
Mrs. Annie M. Cannon, gave two very
pleasing recitations in her usual genial style
and manner, but the sweet spirit that was
manifest throughout the entire gathering
was restful and inspiring, and the party as
a whole was a perfect success.
	MONDAY, April 30th, was the quarterly
Conference of the Utah Stake Relief
Society held at Lehi, the President Mrs.
Z. D. H. Young and Mrs. E. B. Wells at-
tended. Arriving at Lehi we found Sister
Mary John with her Counselors and Secre-
tary, Sisters M. Daniels, D. Billings and C.
Daniels, had already arrived. We had a
most enjoyable time. The sisters at Lehi are
indeed spiritually minded. After meeting we
called on Sister Evans, widow of the former
Bishop, went on to Provo the same evening.
Next day Convention of the W. S. A. was
held there, President E. Bullock presiding.
Speeches and exercises were very fine,
great progress is being made in the county.
A choir of young girls came up from Spanish
Fork to sing for the Suffrage Convention.
A fine dinner was served in the hall, to
which all were invited, and it was a very
enjoyable affair. The same evening Sisters
Young and Wells met with the Relief
Society in American Fork and had a very
interesting time, Mrs. M. S. Hindley who
has presided there about twenty five years
was present, though on account of her hav-
ing a severe cold and cough Mrs. Ellen
Clarke conducted the exercises of the
meeting.
	WEDNESDAY, May 2nd a sociable enter-
tainment was given in the 14th Ward Hall
by the Guide Class, under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A., of Salt Lake Stake,
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. The hall
was beautifully fitted up and the decor-
ations of plants and flowers were simply
magnificent, apple blossoms everywhere in
great profusion, but more beautiful still
were the intelligent faces of the young wo-
men assembled there. The roll call was
responded to with brief sayings from
President Wilford Woodruff's sermons
certainly a delicate compliment to our vener-
able leader. After music and prayer
Mrs. Emma Goddard successfully
illustrated the work of the class; Miss Rose
Wallace gave a brief sketch of Joseph
Smith the Prophet, his life and mission.
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp spoke interestingly
upon the circulation of the blood as part of
the physiological lessons the class had
taken. Mrs. Alice K. Smith read an
original poem specially spiritual and up-
lifting in tone and sentiment. Addresses
were then given by Presidents Wilford
Woodruff, Joseph F. Smith and Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, General President of the Y. L. M.
I. A. Delicious refreshments were served
to the invited guests by the young ladies of
the class. One specially pleasing feature
of the occasion was the presentation by the
class to each of those who had been their
instructors of an exquisite bouquet of lovely
flowers. Mrs. Minnie J Snow, Mrs. May
B. Talmage, and Mrs. Emma Goddard.
Among the invited guests present were,
President Lorenzo Snow, Apostles F. M.
Lyman and H. J. Grant, Elder B. H.
Roberts, several Bishops and dis-
tinguished ladies and gentlemen who are


interested in all progressive movements.
The Guide class have done very effective
work in the attainment of higher and
deeper spiritual training.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	THE semi-monthly meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, May 6,
1894. Counselor E. Stevenson conducted
the meeting. Meeting opened by singing,
“O, my Father.” Prayer by Counselor E.
Webb. Continued by singing, ‘‘Welcome,
best of all good meetings.” Minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Minutes of
Primary Association of Fifteenth Ward read.
	President M. Isabella Horne said she was
pleased with the minutes read by the little
girl. Thought mothers should be careful
and prompt in sending the children to the
Primary. We should be careful of pride,
and dress the children plainly. A proprietor
of a store said he sold more gingham to
clothe the children of the rich, by far, than
to clothe the children of the poorer classes.
Children should be taught to respect their
parents. Young mothers be wise and
humble. We are all God’s children, and
should be wise and humble, striving to
raise our children to fear God. Told of the
sad fate of a Prophet, because he did not
restrain his children. President Woodruff
has said that when the Temple was dedica-
ted the angels had been told to reap down
the earth, and the spirit of destruction was
everywhere except in Zion. Spoke of the
many virtues and good deeds of Sister
McMaster, President of the Relief Society
of the Eleventh Ward, who had passed
away since our last meeting; also Sister
Player, one of the Counselors to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Nineteenth
Ward; they were noble women, valiant for
the truth, and had passed to the great be-
yond, to mingle with loved ones, and enjoy
the reward of the righteous.
	A sister in the congregation testified that
this was the Church of God. Sister Julia
Pack bore a strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, spoke of the Prophet Joseph,
how his face shone with glory when he told
of the truths of the Gospel, and also spoke
of seeing the murdered Prophet and Patri-
arch side by side in death.
	Sisters Rawlings, Forsythe, Morris,
Phelps, Clark, Brown and Nunn, each
spoke upon healing and concerning faith,
promises fulfilled, and the testimony of the
Gospel and its gifts and powers.
	Sisters M. W. Wilcox, Mary Ann Hardy
and Williams, each bore strong testimonies
and were pleased with the sentiment of the
meeting. Sister J. C. Howe said the sub-
jects treated upon had been timely. “I am
thankful that my kind parents taught me
to revere the Sabbath day. God has an-
swered my prayers in a remarkable manner."
	Sister Jane James bore a faithful testi-
mony, then spoke in tongues.—Interpreta-
tion given by Sister Phelps.
	Counselor Stevenson—Is this not the
school of the prophets to us? Spoke at
some length on the duties of mothers, mak-
ing many good remarks. President Horne
made a few closing remarks. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Singing, “This
God is the God we adore.” Benediction.
Sister L. D. Alder.

	Ladies’ semi-monthly meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, May 19,
1894. Sister M. Isabella Horne presiding.

[Column 2]
Meeting opened by singing, “When the
voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer by
Sister Margaret C. Brown. Continued by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne hoped the sisters would
bear testimony that we might have a time
of refreshing from the Lord. God knows
when we bear testimony. “Angels bear re-
cords to the worlds on high. By our re-
cords we shall be judged. Let us keep His
commandments, that He may not say to us,
“Depart, you have not done the things I
commanded you.” Of all women we are
the most blessed, if we have the good spirit
in our heart.”
	Minutes of Primary of the Fifteenth
Ward were read by the secretary, which
were very instructive.
	By request President Horne granted per-
mission for the patrichal blessing, given by
the Patriarch Hyrum Smith to Sister Jane
James, to be read in the meeting. The
blessing was read by Sister Alder.
	Sister Elmina Taylor said, it is comfort-
ing to know that who doeth well shall be
blessed. We have the gifts of the Gospel
among us. We frequently have the gift of
tongues, also the gift of healing (I have
been healed many times myself,) and all the
other gifts are in the church as promised.
Should we not live better lives? Should
we not be careful of our association, and be
calm here in Zion while the dreadful calam-
ities pass over the earth? God said that in
the last days He would pour out judgments
on the wicked. May we so live that to us
He will say, “Well and faithfully done.”
	Sisters Corbet, Diana Reed, Peterson,
Hayon, Holland, Larsen and Forsythe
bore excellent testimonies. Sisters sang,
“Arise, my soul arise.”
	Sister Rawlings, Kiddle, Frances Smith
and Workman each bore testimony concern-
ing the healing power, fulfillment of prophecy
and of promises made by the servants
of God.
	Counselor E. Webb spoke at some length
on Temple work, urged the sisters to at-
tend to this important duty, also of the
dreadful calamities befalling the children
of men, disasters by sea and by land, at
home and abroad; felt that we were living
in the time spoken of by the prophets,
knew the gift of healing was in the Church
at the present time as well as in the past,
and that she was a living monument of
God’s mercy. Urged the sisters to redeem
their dead.
	Other sisters in the congregation bore
testimony, and desired to be true and faith-
ful.
	Sisters Morris and Ford bore testimony
that Joseph was a prophet of God, was
thankful for this knowledge.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder also bore testimony.
	President Horne felt to thank God for
the many excellent testimonies borne to-
day, and felt to bless the sisters. The gift
of tongues was poured out. The inter-
pretation was given by Sister Phelps, and
was a rich blessing to the sisters. Sister
Morris testified of the good spirit in the
house. President Horne spoke of laboring
in the Temple, and of a vision that a sister
had just been given there. She saw her
daughter (who had but lately passed away)
with the heavenly choir, and when the
Temple choir sang the Hosannah, the
heavenly choir all sang Hosannah, and her
daughter was among them. Made other
closing remarks. Meeting was adjourned
for two weeks. President Horne spoke of

[Column 3]
the secretary’s absence, that she was often
prevented by circumstances, it was sugges-
ted that the sisters pray that Sister Young
might be enabled to attend. Sisters sang,
“There’s a feast of fat things.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Julia Pack.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Ast. Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.

		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of the Relief
Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion, con-
vened in the Stake House, March 4, 1894.
Sister Sarah Pope presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Bishop Freestone. Singing.
Minutes of previous conference read and
approved. A statistical and financial re-
port was read. The local and general
authorities were sustained by the conference.
President S. R. Bennion delivered a very
interesting discourse to the people: he said
the sisters were engaged in one of the
greatest works there is in the Church.
Spoke of the grain they are laying up ac-
cording to President Brigham Young’s in-
structions, and also spoke on the education
of the young, said he felt to bless the
sisters in their labors, and asked the Lord
to bless us all.
	Counselor A. Bartlett said the Relief
Society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph for a wise purpose, and also spoke
at some length on the subject of virtue.
Counselor Mary Hall bore her testimony.
Advised the sisters to read and study good
books that they might store up knowledge
and have something to talk about, besides
talking about their neighbors, and asked
the Lord to bless us in our work.
	Conference then adjourned until 7. p.m.
Singing, “Hard times come again no
more.” Benediction by President Sarah
Pope.
	Evening session:—Opened with singing, 
prayer by counselor A H. Bartlett. Sing-
ing. Sisters Abby Oaks, Mary O’Niel,
Sarah Coltron, Julia E. Dillman and Phebe
Hislop all spoke very interestingly on
different subjects, especially on the way we
should rear our children and the example
we should set before them.
	Sister Robison spoke a few words to the
young sisters. Said they must be very
kind to the aged, remember they were the
ones that cared for us when we were
small, be kind to them and take their coun-
sel and the counsel of parents, for remem-
ber we will all be old some day ourselves.
	“President Pope felt like saying a few
words to the sisters in the Relief Society.
It is our duty to look after the poor and
needy, take care of everything we have
that we can use, if it is something we can-
not use ourselves we can find some one else
that can. It is but a few years from the
cradle to the grave, and let us do all the
good we can. It is hard times there is 
plenty in the country but no money to get
anything with—it was much worse in the 
early days of Utah, for there was neither
money or clothing.”
	Brother Robert Pope spoke a short time
on the early days of Utah and crossing the
plains, and said he wished the brethren
would speak to the people as plain as the
sisters did. Hoped the sisters would be
blessed in their labors. Conference ad-
journed for six months. Singing. Bene-
diction by Counselor Mary Hall.
	SARAH POPE, Prest.
	ADDIE LONGFELLOW, Sec.


[Column 1]
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Bear Lake Stake convened at Paris, Idaho,
December 2, 1893. There were present on
the stand, President Wm. Budge and Coun-
selors James Hart and Wm. P. Rich, and
the presiding ladies of the Stake—Sister
Julia Lindsay presiding.
	The President stated that she, with her
counselors, had visited all the branches of
the Stake and felt well satisfied with the
progress they were making. The Relief
Society of the following named Wards were
then reported as in good running order:
	Paris, First Ward, Margaret James;
Second Ward, Sarah Ashley; Ovid, Martha
Carlson; Liberty, Margaret Morgan; Len-
ark, Jane Toomer; Bennington, Margaret
Vanorman; Dingle, Ruth Sparks; Bloom-
ington, Josephine Nelson; St. Charles, Jane
Gallaway; Thomas Fork, Mary Dalton.
	Sister C. Collins made many good and
timely remarks. Counselor L. M. Hart
spoke at some length on the duties of par-
ents to their children, after which meeting
adjourned by singing, “Guide us, O thou
Great Jehovah.” Benediction by Brother
J. H. Hart.
	Afternoon session:—Commenced with
singing “Come, Come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Counselor W. L. Rich. Singing, "Re-
deemer of Israel.”
	Sister Mary Bagley spoke of the improve-
ment made in the society, and also on the
force of example; thought no one had a
greater mission to perform than the mothers
in Israel. As members of the Relief
Society, the labors of the sisters were in-
creasing, spoke impressively on the storing
of grain.
	President Lindsay endorsed the remarks
of the former speaker, and gave many good
instructions. President Wm. Budge felt
confident and gratified that the sisters would
desseminate truth, that they were one of
the aids of government, and he felt sure
that their labors would be rewarded to their
complete satisfaction. He gave excellent
instructions in regard to storing grain.
	President Lindsay then said that we
would be called upon for one report a year.
She also stated that it had been counseled
that they should hold the meeting in each
Society every two weeks. Conference was
then adjourned by singing, “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by J. H.
Hart. ROSE HILLIER, Sec.

	SUMMIT STAKE.
	The Semi-annual Conference of the Sum-
mit Stake Relief Society, was held at Hoyts-
ville, on Thursday, May 2nd, 1894. Presi-
dent May J. Atwood presiding. At 10
o’clock a.m. the conference was opened by
singing, “The happy day is rolling on.”
Bishop Sargent, of Hoytsville, offered the
opening prayer. Singing, “Lo, the Gentile
chain is broken."
	President Atwood complimented the
sisters for the care and taste displayed in
preparing the meeting-house for this oc-
casion. Minutes of conference held at
Hennefer in September, 1893, were read
and approved.
	The Stake organization consists of fifteen
branches; statistical and financial reports
from thirteen were read as follows:
	Reports were made by Presidents as
follows: Hannah Boyer, Wanship; Parth-
-enia Ann Holt, Hoytsville; Sister Lusty,
South Coalville, Walker, Peoa; Sister

[Column 2]
Vernon, Rockport. The reports indi-
cated that the branches were in
fair condition and a general good feeling
prevailing among them.
	President Atwood spoke of the blessings
derived from meeting together, it was a
duty and a privilege; we should show good
examples before our families, teaching them
to do right; we should visit with each
other and talk of matters pertaining to the
Gospel and comfort and sustain each other.
	Sister Woolstenholme, of Kamas, said
though she was 74 years of age she felt de-
sirous of attending conference, and was
thankful for the privilege, spoke of the
blessings to be derived from observing the
Word of Wisdom; was thankful that her
heart’s desire was to still continue in the
good work.
	Sister Boyden spoke briefly upon matters
pertaining to our religion and bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Crook of Wanship, referred to her
experiences in the Primary Associations,
and urged upon parents and all concerned
to see that the children attended the Pri-
mary meetings. Spoke of the evil conse-
quences and abuses of card-playing. Sing-
ing, “Come, O thou King of Kings.”
Benediction by Elder Amos Sargent.
	Afternoon Session:—Singing, “Softly
beams the sacred dawning.” Prayer by
Elder Leroy Holt. Singing, “O’er the
gloomy hill of darkness.”
	President Jane Lemon, of Morrell, and
Counselor Hannah Eldredge, of North
Coalville, reported their respective branches
favorably.
	Sister L. Roundy of the Primary As-
sociation was much interested in the move-
ment being made to advance home indus-
tries; thought it a movement that we should
all encourage by patronage and support; we
should make and foster home employment
as far as lay in our power, which could be
done in many and various ways.
	Counselor Ruth Pack spoke of our
mission to do good, to be kind to each
other, comfort the sick, aid the poor and
needy, and to labor for the advancement of
God’s Kingdom. We should cultivate the
Holy Spirit which would sustain us in time
of trial and difficulty, and enable us to
overcome evil, and it would assist us in
discharging our duties as officers and mem-
bers in the society.
	Sister Mary Wolstenholme briefly ad-
dressed the conference. President M. J.
Atwood spoke at length upon our duties as
members and officers, and of the necessity
of placing good examples before our child-
ren, we should learn what is right for us to
do, and knowing it should do it fearlessly.
We should observe the counsel given to
store up our grain, she was impressed that
this was a duty that should require our im-
mediate attention. We should discounten-
ance the practice of card-playing and round
dancing, and use our influence with the
young people to refrain from participating
therein. The speaker referred to the sub-,
ject of  “home manufacture,” it was our
duty to encourage it, our present condition 
required it, and our future prosperity large-
ly depended upon it.
	Bishop Sargent of Hoytsville and Bishop
Atwood of Kamas, each spoke of the teach-
ings that had been given and advised the
people to carry them out in their lives and
all would be well. Bishop Atwood invoked
the blessings of the Almighty upon those
who had prepared so nice, comfortable and
pleasant a place to meet in.

[Column 3]
	Adjourned to meet at Kamas on the first
Thursday in September. Singing. Bene-
diction by Elder A. Peterson. 
	J. C. Boyden, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

(Written especially for the Woman’s Exponent.
Copyrighted 1894, by the Author. All rights
reserved.]
THE dark night’s hour was twelve, perhaps later:
I had just return’d home from the theatre,
Where I heard the fiery debater—
A lady who enjoys national fame—
On that old and beaten subject declaim,
Call’d by such as Woman Suffrage name.
And now that I lay restless in my bed,
Reviewing and weighing what she had said—
The arguments she had hurl’d forth, glowing red,
Why woman should not disfranchised be
But should have restored back her liberty,
Be from those shackles of bondage set free.
I set to doubting and saying—no,
Woman should not be allowed the polls to go,
To stem or aid the election's flow; 
Let her remain to home, home is her world;
Her structure is too delicate to be hurl’d
Devious with every political storm unfurl’d.
Yet, I next thought, she is endowed with sense,
Ample to know the better side of the fence.
And sense is the only weight of importance
Which should weigh in the question's balance 
	boat;
Really, to decree that she must not vote,
Cuts her innate liberty’s very throat.
Thus would flit before the eye of my mind
One argument, of favorable kind:
Then another, in adversity entwined,
Till my thoughts so entangled in the subject grew
Till my reason was put to so much ado,
I could not sift error from what is true.
At length my thoughts distorted swell'd, as they,
	swept,
In all the frightful shapes fantasy kept,
Before my mind, and away slowly crept.
Anon no train of reason could I keep;
Now the grossest foolishness did my mind reap
Benumb’d and rounded out in the gulfs of sleep
Day had now come, forenoon was in its grave:
The man I loved, so noble and brave,
Of robust physique florid cheeks, and clean
	shave,
Awaited without, with his carriage fine,
For me to accompany him to dine,
Or fill an invitation to take wine;
In less than a quarter, by the clock,
I had myself clad in silken frock
And was speeding along the street paved with
	rock.
Beside the man of my mind’s own choice, 
So near his pure heart I might well rejoice,
in a carriage fine of his own invoice.
But, as a corner we turn’d sharp and spry,
The hideous steam roller met the steed’s eye,
Quick he became frighten’d, began to shy.
Just then the frightful thing a sharp puff blew out
Instantly the horse leap’d, to reverse his route, 
With the same turned suddenly about: 
My heart leap’d up into my mouth with fright,
For dear life I to my escort clung tight—
Clung to his sinewy arm with all my might;
Another puff the engine gave—the steed,
With a wild leap of most vicious greed,
Plunged farther, bent from the noise to be freed.


[Column 1]
Follow’d a tremendous chaotic crash—
The carriage was o’erturned—with awful clash,
Away with shatter’d carriage the horse did dash
To my escort I clung in wildest dismay,
A telephone post I now saw did lay
Right afront of us, right in the steed's way—
Yes, and the buggy swift into it smashed:
I felt my poor body against it lash’d— 
But knew no more—perhaps all cut and gashed.
Somehow and strange I carried far away was,
Where infamiliarity keeps its laws,
Where I knew neither space, time, nor cause.
And it seemed to me I lightly went 
Along a narrow path which never bent,
Which led us onward thro’ the firmament;
Nor was I alarmed at this trip so strange,
E’er farther from where my knowledge did range
But all within me was calm as the change.
Now seem’d to confront me a huge gateway,
Built of polished stone and architecture gay,
Enshrouded in effulgence of brightest day.
And something to my mind seemed to state—
Here is where mortals, seeking Heaven. wait
For the Judge Supreme to decree their fate.
Without impulse, reason, or notice, 
All by unconscious volition passive,
Three raps, to come in at the gate, I did give;
Thereupon the mighty gate opened up wide—
A form, in pure white clad, stood inside
And gazed on me in silence, deified,
As if to question me from whence I came,
What was my business there and what my name,
I stammer’d out, with speech somewhat lame.
For I, myself, knew not what I would there:
“Oh, pardon my disturbance, thou so fair!
But, what name dost thou give this place of the
sir?
He answer’d, without a moment to wait,
-' In tones whose sweetness could intoxicate: 
“This is the Celestial City Gate.”
What, I thought to myself, then am I dead?
Have I from my earthly body fled?
Then, I, in wild anxiety, said:
“Can I return no more to my beloved land?’’
All who enter this gate,” quick came the com-
   mand,
“Nevermore ruturn to the mortal strand.”
“Oh, let me not enter then,” my quick tongue
   ran,
“I am in love with a mortal man!”
And my poor heart sigh’d, as anguish can.
Oh, how did I pass to this place of shade
Without knowing from my true love I strayed
Without a last kiss upon his lips laid.
Without his face so true at my dying bed!
“Kind sir, I am betrothed,” I then said, 
“I love: Oh, I must return to be wed!”
The personage, heedless, unto me spoke,
As if not seeing thro’ my speech’s cloak
The grief which was about my heart to choke.
As if he had heard not one word I utter’d
From my grief burden’d heart which flutter'd
I in palpitating anguish as it mutter’d:
But, as if aware and knowing full well
The exact locality where I did dwell
In the Womau Suffrage Question dell;
Spoke unto me in these words aliquot:
“Your mind in restless broil is toss’d about,
To know whether or not woman should vote.”
Surprised I was that the stranger knew my mind
I wonder’d in wonderment of vacant kind,
Stared on him with all the eyes I could find;
Soon, recovering back myself, I ask’d,

[Column 2]
“Since thou hast that important question Un
	masked,
Tell me, should woman with the ballot be task’d?”
He spoke, "From the decree of Heaven I this
	quote:
In the affairs of men, on earth remote,
It is woman’s right, yea,duty to vote.”
“And man,” he added, “does her shamful wrong
To steal this right and keep it from her long,
Because he is politically strong;
“Go, tell all humankind, on earth below,
Heaven is displeased with this evil they sow,
Which threatens the whole sphere to overgrow.”
And he was ceased. Silent, awhile I thought,
Pleased with the favorable decision, wrought
In favor of woman’s, using the ballot.
And delighted indeed, to hear he’d said
I should go, bear the news, with reversed tread,
To where the man dwelt whom I should wed.
But, catching a whisper from Reason’s tongue,
I said, “kind being, thou dost ken I am young,
And when I return humankind among,
"Unless I have reasons for this epigraph,
Earth’s wise men will call it naught more than
	chaff, 
And at its bearer deridingly laugh;
I pray thee (allow me so to intrude,)
Some reasons with this thy message include—
Reasons plain, clothed not in similitude.”
Awhile he deeply thought, and then he spoke:
“When ask’d the whyfore, by earth’s learned folk
Tell them—the Allwise says woman should vote
“But, if reasons further are desired,
Say the only requisite required,
A lone one but in rarity attir--
“To enable one to cast votes -ith sense
In the proper basket of the b--ance,
Is good, sound, mental intelligence.
“Now, the most ignorant man who treads life’s
shore,
Because he is born man and nothing more,
Is allow’d to cast his vote against or for.
Then why should not woman of sense born,
Yea, many capable Congress to adorn,
Be allow’d to vote on election morn?”
“Thy reason is very fine,” I then said,
“And it seems to me of such good logic bred
That it should convince the most stubborn head.”
“But,” I continued, “what will I say
When worldly wise men into my ears bray— . 
Politics are not for women to weigh.
“Woman’s duty is with her children, at home,
To see that they in the fields of learning roam,
From books and men all usefulness to comb?”
Observing me much fatigued, he then said:
“I see you are tired, both limb and head,
Set yourself down on the verdure there spread.”
So I did as bade, his heart good as great—
Sat myself down on the lawn by the gate,
And when I was seated his voice did state:
“Tell them that it is true woman’s place
Is the marble halls her homelo grace,
Teach her children to shun everything base,
Mould them into upright men and women pure:
In short, make them as near perfection’s picture
As is possible for effort to procure.
Then ask, but how can she this duty fill—
The highest to which motherhood can thrill,
To think of it causes my blood to chill.
Educate her sons in such wisdom wise
That they may be enabled to arise
To the statesmen and leaders nations prize,

[Column 3]
Without herself understanding, at the best,
Governmental affairs either East or West,
How the nation either lives or builds its nest. 
Then say—no, she cannot. She must understand
Every plank on which governments stand,
To well teach her sons to govern the land.
And say when all this nation lore she must learn;
With all this set and ready her tongue to turn,
Think you she knows not whose best fit to
	govern?
Think you such intelligence so encompass’d,
To be with aliens, savages and beasts class’d,
It should not be allow’d a vote to cast?
And odd—after she has thus trained her son,
Ever since his infancy begun,
For statesmanship or leadership to run:
“Then, would you deny her, at the end,
Him into his long-hoped-for place to send,
The privilege her vote to him to lend?”
“Truly, kind sir,” I said, “thou dost discourse
	well— . ,
Arguments mighty enough an oak to fell,
And the most sturdy in the forest dell.”
Yet, realizing what a golden chance
Was now before me, what matchless intelligence,
I desired the being’s mental lance
Down the skull of every question to cut
Which were to men’s eyes on earth ever shut;
And ope them up; so I this query put,
After being assured I did not intrude;
In asking further question, I was not rude:
Perchance, when I am in earthly habitude,
Some arrogant person should unto me say,
Suppose we grant it thee that woman.may
Cast her ballot on fair election day,
She would the very selfsame ticket vote
As the judgement of her husband did denote  
So would do every woman in wedlock’s boat.
Thus no side would have over the others a 
	gain,
Neither candidate would have the longer train, 
Than tho’ woman should disfranchised remain.
Moreover, and allow woman to vote,
Domestic discord, yea, wrath does promote,
By putting debate in the household afloat;
One will say this is right: the other, no,
And the sequel will be discord’s painful woe—
Fiery anger exchanging blow for blow.
If she’ll not hand in hand with her husband go,
We’ll from her possession the ballot throw
And, thus far, compel her to do so.”
No sooner had I ceased than he began,
From the knowledge I have of earthly man,
With unerring truth, I think I say can,
That to allow woman her vote to cast,
Will not of necessity the household blast
With matrimonial discord’s cruel frost.
Wherever it does brew some little discord, 
There contention ever holds a ready sword,
And red-eyed quarrel lurks behind every word.
Let us assume discord it does produce:
Is woman more than man the evil deuce?
Should the wife more than the husband beg excuse?
Now I beheld come o’er the speaker’s face
Pleasant expression, bearing distinct trace,
Sparkling in his eyes, up his cheeks running
	race,
As if this question of wedlock’s discord
Had nigh cast arguments overboard,
But now he had victory o’er them scored.
He went on, “As to the mischievous stone
Which might be as argument at you thrown, 
You a few moments since to my ears made
	known—


That, should woman to cast vote allow’d be,
Vote the ticket her husband did would she,
And thus would be better’d neither nominee.

Hurl back into their faces this mighty blow—
We who would have woman to the polls go
Wish her the same vote, as her husband does
throw;

Thus far, neither candidate would better’d be;
But within our fair nation’s boundary,
According to the census, referee,

Many million more women than men dwell,
Who have no husbands whom they can tell
To vote the wishes which within them swell.

Now, should all these go to the ballot box,
To vote the decision their good sense unlocks,
Politics would be clad in different frocks."

Furthermore, the fiery debater did say,
‘‘All these masses of womankind yearly pay
That with which our nation its debts does defray.

Yes, their taxes the men’s salaries pay
Who would the nation’s laws, of reason’s clay,
Who enforce them, who interpret what mean
they,

But are not allow’d a ballot to cast—
Not allow’d to say they want he who last
Marches—the good man in virtue encompass’d.

What would any private employer think,
Who pays the hands who weld link to link
Of the commodity which brings his chink,

If he could not say that man I will hire;
This man, when his term of office does expire,
I will bid from my services retire?

Why, he would declare it such an outrage
On human liberty that no savage
Would tolerate it, lived he in any age."

As the personage this last sentence said,
I felt something shaking and shaking my head;
Soon I heard my name call’d—Winnefred!
Winnefred!

Louder and louder the calling then seem’d;
I oped up my eyes from sleep—bright morn
gleam’d,
In surprise I look’d around—I had dream’d.
J. S. ROBINSON.
April, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	KIPLING’S Vermont neighbors character-
ize the auther as “odd.” He is never seen
without his pipe, never carries spending
money with him, wears shabby clothes,
says “begad” a great deal, drives shaggy
horses, and likes to play with his baby.
	OUR standard of right and wrong is usually
very lenient to ourselves, but very strict
with reference to others. We shall be
judged hereafter in some degree by that
standard according to which we judge
others here.—Rev. R. Gridlestone.
	IT is easy to live in the world after the
world’s opinion; it is easy to live in solit-
tude after our own. But the great man is
he who in the midst of the crowd keeps
with perfect sweetness the independence of
his character—Ralph Waldo Emerson.
	A hermit in America once told me, when
I asked him whether he fonnd that way of
life had lessened his temptations: “Dost
thou not know, friend, that a tree which
grows by itself is more exposed to winds
and storms than another that stands
surrounded with other trees in the woods?”
—George Whitefield.


A LETTER just received from Lily Lord-
Tift, Secretary of the Association for the
Advancement of Women, states that the
Congress this year will be held in Atlanta
with a supplementary Congress at Tuskegee.
The members will stop at Knoxville, Tenn.
and perhaps hold some meetings there.
They will take a day at Maryville to go
over its college where two hundred pupils
are being educated without regard to sex or
color, according to an endowment made
about one hundred years ago. At this
school the visitors will see whites, blacks,
Persians, Syrians, Indians, Japanese, Chin-
ese and East Indians. Mr. Shaw of Pitts-
burgh, left this college one hundred thous-
and dollars, and Mr. Fayreweather one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars. It is
only an hour’s ride from Knoxville by train,
and it will be one of the great attractions of
the Southern trip of the A. A. W.


OBITUARIES.

	IN memory of our dear friend and president,
Margaret F. D. McMaster, of the Eleventh Ward
Relief Society, Salt Lake City, who departed
this life 21st of April, 1894. The funeral services
were held in the Eleventh Ward Assembly Hall,
the twenty-fourth of April, 1894. A crowded as-
sembly of relatives and friends gathered to pay
their last respects to our honored president, who
always gave good counsel and had a heart full of
sympathy to the poor and needy. She filled
this office for ten years faithfully.
	She leaves five sons and four daughters to
mourn her loss, which will be her gain; she has
fifty grand and great-grand children. She has
been associated with the Eleventh Ward Relief
Society ever since it has been organized, and
held offices as teacher and treasurer, previous to
her, being chosen president.
	She was born in Grenock, Renfrewshire,
Scotland, 15th of May, 1822, she arrived in Salt
Lake on the first [---] Oct. 1854. Sister McMaster
has ever been firm and faithful in the Gospel.
SARAH MCMASTER,
JENNETT MORRIS,
[written to the right of "SARAH MCMASTER," and "JENNETT MORRIS,": }Counselors]
ELIZABETH HOPER, Sec,
MARIA BIDGOOD BARNES, Treas.

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, March 8, 1894, in Uintah, Weber Co.,
Utah, after a lingering illness, of consumption,
Maria Eveline Keyes, aged 48 years 5 months
and 29 days. Deceased was born in Kane Co.,
Illinois, September 10th, 1846; her father’s name
was Joseph Terry, her mother’s maiden name
was Hannah Bemis. On April 27,1862, in Oregon,
she was united in marriage to Alma Keyes, and
came to Utah with her husband in 1866, and set-
tled in Ogden. She was the mother of thirteen
children, five of whom preceded her to the
spirit world; five sons and three daughters are
still living. The family settled in Uintah, April,
1884; Sister Keyes joined the Relief Society the
same year and was chosen treasurer in 1888,
which office she faithfully filled until she was
called away by our Heavenly Father to a higher
sphere; she was a faithful wife and a loving
mother, and made many friends, always kind and
ready to do good to anybody whether in the
Church or not. She remained true to the
end of her mortal life. Her father and mother
were members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints when she was born. Peace be
to her ashes.
	Resolved, that while we feel the deepest sorrow
in the loss of our departed sister, yet we know
that our loss is her gain, and we, therefore,—bow
submissively to the will of Him who doeth all
things well and say, "Thy will, O Lord, be done.”
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory and
emulate her virtues, and strive to carry out in our
lives her motherly counsel, which was ever so
wise, in temporal as well as spiritual things.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
to the bereaved family, especially her husband,
sons and daughters, who so lovingly tended her
during her months of sickness, and who need that
counsel which a wife and mother alone can give.
	Resolved, that one copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, a copy be entered upon
the record of the Relief Society, one copy be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
RACHEL GALE, President.
SUSAN STEWART, Sec.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

[Column 1]
Leave Salt Lake:
*7:45 a. m.
10:20  "
2:00 p. m.
3:00   "
†6:30  "

[Column 2]
Arrive Salt Lake:
12:40 p. m.
*4:00  "
4:40   "
6:10   "
†10:10  "

*Daily except Sunday.  †Daily except Monday.
Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.

S H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Elle y Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.
}Receivers. [written to the right of the five names above]
D E. BURLEY
GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
Show Cases, Mirrors,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils AND Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 223 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1894. No. 19.


CONTENTS:

	Some Facts About Sericulture. In Rural
England—A Story. Interesting Tour In Sevier—
Christena Cellars. Reception To Mrs. Willard.
Notes And News. To The Sisters—Zina D. H.
Young. Current Literature—E. B. W. R. S.
Reports. U. W. P. C.—Gladys Woodmansee.
W. S. A.—M. E. Irvine. Mrs. Sorenson’s Class.
An Enjoyable Affair—M. E. K. In Memoriam
—Com.

	EDITORIAL:—Birthday Anniversary. Woman’s
Opportunity.

	POETRY:—The Mother To Her Son—Mary A.
Freeze. Utah R. M. F. Had I The Power—
Edahoo. On The Street—L. M. Hewlings,
Life’s Guiding Star—Zina C. Walker.


THE MOTHER TO HER SON.

YOU say, “Could you write such letters
	As your mother writes to you,
’Twould repay for all exertion"
	And I know you mean it, true.
But list, my son, to my story 
	While my joy to you I tell, 
Because of that precious sentence.
	“Dear mother, I’m happy and well."
Not the music of the angels
	Being wafted from above, 
Could fill me with such rapture
	Nor inspire such grateful love—
To our kind and heavenly Parent,
	For His mercy and tender care,
To my own lov’d missionary 
	In response to his mother’s prayer.
Like engraving in pictures of silver
	With letters of shining gold,
Were those words from the South Sea Islands,
	Oh! their worth could never be told—
As they came to the one who bore thee,
	Who periled her life for thine,
’Twas like incense from some bright altar,
	Some sacred, holy, shrine.
Had there been no other sentence
	In that missive you sent to me,
’Twould still have been more priceless
	Than pearls from over the sea.
And I pray that our loving Father
	May still send His mighty power,
To protect on the land or the billow,
	Guiding safely through each trying hour.
MARY A. FREEZE.


UTAH.

O UTAH, lovely Utah! Thou art my theme,
Tis of thee I would sing, of thee that I dream;
With thy beautiful vales and glittering rills,
That ripple with laughter as they dance from the
	hills.
I gaze on thy mountains, so mighty and grand,
And view with delight the vast stretches of land;
That slope to the beautiful Lake in the west,
Where the sun in his glory sinks low on its breast.
Each nerve of my being with wonderment thrills,
My heart to my Maker with gratitude fills;
That thou once a desert, so lonely and drear,
Has now mong’st thy sisters no rival or peer.
Are thine not the hills of which prophets have,
	sung, 
Are thine not the vales to which many shall come
To drink of thy fountains so healing and sweet,
To bask in thy freedom and to rest at thy feet?


Thy mountains are fragrant with minerals rare,
Thy orchards and meadows are fruitful and fair,
Thy sons and thy daughters, none nobler are
	found,
Though ye seek the land over this wide world
	around.
Then should I not love thee blest Utah my home,
I would not exchange thee for palace or dome,
With sceptre of peace which thou hold’st in thine
	hand
Thou sit’st like a queen in the mid'st of the land.
The wonder of nations, whose eyes shall behold
Thy glory extending to splendors untold;
No more shall their lips curl with scorn at thy
	name,
But thy brow shall be wreathed with the laurels
	of fame.
R. M. F.


[Column 1]
SOME FACTS ABOUT SERICULTURE.

	A NUMBER of women in Utah are taking
up silk culture with great enthusiasm.
Among them is Mrs. Hannah C. Bentley
of St. George. The following extracts
from letters of Mrs. Bentley’s to the Utah
Woman’s Silk Association are interesting
and give valuable hints for those who wish
to engage in silk culture.
	“I have 212 pounds of green cocoons.
I have smothered 100 pounds. I have 26 
ounces of eggs now and will have twice as 
many more. All wanting eggs for another
year would do well to get them now and
properly keep them until the leaves are
ready another year. The weather is so 
very changeable that to bring the worms 
along properly you must keep the room 
warm night and day until after the second
molting. They should be fed every two
hours until after the first molting, then
every three hours until the second molt-
ing, then every four hours until they spin.
They are not to be fed nor disturbed during
molting. In changing their beds I find a
frame covered with wire screens the very
best thing. Place it over the bed,sprinkle
and feed over this, and you will find the
little fellows all crawling up upon the feed.
I have three different sized frames—the first
the original netting—the second every
other wire drawn each way—the third two
wires each way. The worms must not be
too crowded neither handled. I am plan-
ning to make twenty-five yards of cloth
this year, if my health will permit.”
	“I have already suggested that those
who intended raising silk for another year,
secure their eggs now and care for them,
keep them upon the paper upon which they
are laid,—roll them up carefully—take a
perfectly clean lard bucket—perforate the
bottom and lid that they may have air—put
the eggs in—close the bucket and tie the
lid on that no accident may happen to the
eggs—lay them up in a cold dry cellar.
When the leaves in the spring are as large
as a dime bring up the eggs, spread the
papers upon a deep box lid, and keep in a
warm room of even temperature. Always
keep each days hatching by itself on ac-
count of their molting as they must not
be fed during that time. When the worms

[Column 2]
first hatch I put a leaf upon them, letting
the stem remain. When the leaf is full, I
take the leaf by the stem and place upon
the bed prepared for them until after the
first molting. I leave a space between
each wide enough so that I can lap the leaf
on both sides and they will immediately
transfer themselves to the fresh leaf.”
	Mrs. Bentley has plenty of fresh silk
worm eggs which can be had for four
dollars an ounce. A quarter of an ounce 
is all one person can care for. It is not too
late to raise the silk worms this year, the
mulberry leaves are still very tender. Eggs
can be gotten in Salt Lake City by applying
to Mrs. C. E. Allen, 234 seventh East street
who has a limited supply for sale for the
Silk Association.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXVIII.

	LORD WALTON sailed on the British ship
Francesco (as he had evidently been deter-
mined to do,) bound for his native land,
leaving his two little children in charge of
Dr. and Mrs. Bland, and taking with him
only one of his household, a man servant
whom he had brought from Walton Hall.
He was affected to tears in parting with his
babies, but too utterly selfish to yield to the
entreaties of his true friends, the Blands,
when they tried to dissuade him from
going, even on the eve of his departure.
	So another burden fell heavily upon Jane
Bland. She watched the ship sail away,
but would not go down to the shore to see
him off. Dr. Bland however did so and
bade him the last good bye. Little Edward
Walton had never seen much of his father
and therefore did not miss him as most
children would, and baby was of course far
too young to know anything, but the nurses
and servants berated him sorely behind his
back, though to his face they were flattering
and servile, begging too that he would take
them all back again to live in a civilized
country, where there were no “Injuns ”
and wild beasts, of which they lived in con-
stant fear; and indeed though they knew
how much their young mistress loved Mrs.
Bland, their prejudices against Hilliard
castle and Sir Edward were so strong, that
it had been hard work to keep quiet about
the old traditions, and now they were to be
brought in closer contact with the only
surviving relative of Sir Edward, of whom
they had ever heard, and the maids gossipped
of Sir Edward’s niece as if she were really
an uncanny creature, whereas she was the
most matter of fact and sensible person,
these simple housemaids had ever met with.
They had great reason to thank her after-
wards for the many lessons of prudence,
economy and thrift they received from this
gentle and patient woman.
	As one after another in the years follow-
ing, these young women married and com-
menced housekeeping on a small scale; for
not one of them returned to their native
land—Mrs. Bland dispensed with a liberal
hand, and generous heart, not only material


gifts to these lone girls, but words of wis-
dom,comfort and encouragement; she never
knew the feeling of hostility, they had
fostered because of her relationship to Sir
Edward, and her residence at the old
tumble-down castle. Strange what strong
prejudices existed between old families, and
how it invariably impressed the servants.
In this case as the young women married
and assumed responsible positions as ma-
trons in a new colony, they grew to admire
and look up to Mrs. Bland who proved a
staunch friend in times of adversity, and
one on whom firm reliance could be placed.
	Dr. Bland survived only a few months
after Maitland left for England, his illness
was so gradual that his friends were
scarcely aware it was serious, though his
wife was apprehensive of danger from im-
pressions and premonitions of an indefinable
character which, she felt, and knew were
convincing to her own mind. She dis-
guised from her husband the real state of
her feelings, and preserved a cheerful coun-
tenance when with him, but often when by
herself, the tears would flow at the thought
of being left alone with such grave res-
ponsibilities, in a new country among
strangers. Maitland had not been heard
from direct but once when the Doctor’s
death occurred, and then his message was
very unsatisfactory.
	“Take good care of the children, dear
cousin, they have no mother but you now—
and when my mother’s affairs are settled, I
will come or send for them. Let me know
as often as possible how they are and be
sure that Andrews is faithful to Edward.”
Toward the close of his letter he asked if
the baby was like Anna. Such a heartless
letter coming when Mrs. Bland was over-
whelmed with care,anxiety and sorrow was
almost unbearable, even for one so for-
giving and charitable. Clair had not been
heard from for some time and she did not
like to mention him because of Robert
Harrison whose name never passed her lips,
and of whom she never allowed herself to
think; Anna in her lifetime frequently allu-
ded to “dear Uncle Rob” as she always
called him, but Mrs. Bland either maintain-
ed perfect silence or answered in mono-
syllables; for a woman of Jane Bland’s
type would not allow herself even to cher-
ish a thought of another man, to come like
a dark shadow between her and the hus-
band whom she had promised to love and
obey, for that was one of the solemn in-
junctions of the marriage service of the
Church of England. Besides she enter-
tained the utmost reverence for the sacred
obligations she had assumed, and to be lack-
ing fidelity even in thought would have
seemed to her low and base.
	The death of Dr. Bland was a blow to
the community, for he was a man to be
missed not oniy among men, who esteemed
his great virtues and nobility as well as his
worldly wisdom and sagacity, but the poor
and afflicted to whom he had been generous
and benevolent, mourned for him most
sincerely, and they had good cause for they
had lost a kind friend and a true benefactor.
	His funeral was largely attended, the
services being very simple, but eloquent
with deep feeling, for Mr. Barrington who
delivered the short discourse knew how up-
right and conscientious his life had been,
and in fact all who had the honor of his
acquaintance felt the influence of his re-
fined personality. He never considered
neither hardships nor toil in his profession,
and after his death there was a sense of
loneliness and loss in every home where he
had visited. He was buried among the pines
near to Lady Anna whom he had watched
over from her childhood. His wife felt his
loss deeply but the many responsibilities she
was obliged to carry and the pressing duties
which must be attended to immediately,
helped her to endure with greater courage
the sad loss that had befallen her. Her
little boy missed his father with a grief al-
most uncontrollable. He had been so much
with him, always in fact when he was at
home, and often rode in his gig over the
hills and through the long stretches of pine
woods while his father was making his
calls upon his patients
	Businessmen who interested themselves
and proffered advice to the young widow,
who seemed so much alone in the world,
and the executors of the will, were all
amazed at the wonderful ability and even
knowledge of business affairs, that Mrs.
Bland displayed in dealing with the sub-
jects that demanded her personal super-
vision. She was or seemed to be equal to
all occasions and under all circumstances.
Mr. Barrington rendered her valuable
assistance in relieving her of the unpleasant
duty of writing to the Doctor’s relatives in
the north of England. This she really felt
she could not do. It was very remarkable
that she kept her balance so well, looking
after every minute detail in the settlement
of the estate and property, and yet manag-
ing her household and nursery with pre-
cision and keeping every department in
running order. Her hands were never idle,
and her quick and ready intuition of what
was needed, and what was best and most
appropriate seemed never at fault.
	A severe winter set in soon after the
decease of the Doctor and she was more
closely confined within doors, which in-
clined her more to melancholy than when
she was out and looking after the necessary
preparations for the long,cold New England
winter. It was also true that being more
with the children she was constantly re-
minded of the double loss, both for herself
and them, of the two who had left her so
sorely bereft. Almost the only companion
with whom she held converse upon any
serious subject was Mr. Barrington, and in
the long evenings he would read to her
while she sat and sewed on the little gar-
ments for the orphaned children. The
young minister was conversant with many
topics in which Mrs. Bland was deeply in-
terested and it was a great pleasure to them
both to give free expression to thoughts
and ideas, not always quite so well under-
stood by the people among whom they
were living.
	One letter had come from Maitland after
the Doctor’s death, but it was a sterotyped
affair, his mother joined him in expressions
of love and sympathy; he could not yet
leave England for several reasons which he
did not take the pains to give, and he must
stay by his mother for the present.
	From the Doctor’s relatives tender letters
of love and sympathy begging Mrs. Bland
to come home to them, and to give up the
care of her cousin’s children to those whose
duty it was to care for them. This she
could not and would not do, though it was
very pleasant to know these good kind-
hearted friends appreciated her situation,
and would have made her more than wel-
come to dwell among them. But she felt
so strongly within herself the independence
of action, and the need of relying upon her
own judgment in reference to the duties
resting wholly and solely with her in regard
to the children, that she could not have
yielded a point in reference to the course 
she ought to pursue.
	Mr. Barrington knowing the contents of
the letters ventured one evening to say to
Mrs. Bland, “You will pardon me I trust,
but would it not be well for you to person-
ally consider the proposition of your hus-
band’s family, and make up your mind to
leave here in the spring for a visit and a
change of scene, even if you desire to make
America your permanent home?”
	Mrs. Bland seemed astonished that any
one should have dared to make such a
suggestion, and hesitated a moment before
replying, turning upon him the full blaze
of her large gray eyes. “I thought Mr.
Barrington you understood me better than
to ask such a question, or even indulge a
thought of my ever putting into the power
of any one to control me or my affairs. I
have passed through ordeals of such a
nature, that I am quite prepared to stand
alone if needful and to bring up my child,
according to my own ideas, that he may be
as well fortified to grapple with fortune or
misfortune as his father and I want to
educate him in my own way.” “But my
dear friend” whispered Mr. Barrington
“Would not your opportunities and advan-
tages be much greater in England than
here to give your son a liberal education
such as you propose, and you yourself
would have the companionship of refined
and cultivated women, whereas here you
have never made the acquaintance, though
you have been urged, of women in your
own rank, only of the poor and lowly.”
“Of whom I have learned invaluable
lessons of patience, resignation, humility
and self-denial, courage under supreme
difficulties and embarrassments, this you
will grant me is worth learning in your
creed of divine philosophy.”
	“Certainly Madame but yet I see a
boundless avenue open to you in the higher
walks of life, and with such a fine brain as
yours, and the courage of a man, a hero
indeed, you should make your influence felt
in the rank and file of women of superior
graces and intelligence.” “And so you
think America is not good enough or great
enough for poor me—let me tell you
America will need strong-hearted women
and brave men in the near future, and
England has her army and navy and her
treasuries are full and running over.”


WOMANS EXPONENT


THE Chicago Woman’s Club has added a
woman suffrage section to its other depart-
ments.
	REV. DR. GUMBART, of Roxbury, Mass.,
preached a strong sermon in favor of
woman suffrage last Sunday.
	THE Prohibition State Conventions of
California and Illinois, and the Populist
State Conventions of California, Illinois and
Indiana endorse woman suffrage.
	AT Tuskegee, Ala., Normal and Indus-
trial Institute, every girl who graduates
this year has cut and made the dress which
she wears on Commencement day.
	“WHY Women Should Vote” is the title
of an admirable pamphlet by Rev. Dr.
Rainsford, of New York. It may be
ordered from Rev. J. R. Atkinson, 207 E.
16th Street, New York City. Price, ten
cents.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


HAD I THE POWER. 

	Dear love of mine,
Had I the power
To grant thee all thy heart desires,
	It would be thine:
Were’t jewels rare, or golden treasure,
Or fame’s bright crown, or love’s full measure,
Aye, all to which thy soul aspires,
’Twould be my joy, on thee to shower,
	Dear love of mine,
Had I the pow’r!
	Dear heart of mine
I have no pow’r.
To give thee joy, or fame, or dower,
	Else’twould be thine
But, O! could the bluebirds bonny wing
Waft thee the song, I fain would sing,
It would stir your soul with subtlest thought
As a living poem in sunshine wrought,
Whisper the love in my heart this hour
	That will be thine
Beyond the clouds
	And after time
Have I the pow’r.
‘Edahoo.’


ON THE STREET.
I walked on the city’s busiest street,
While thinking perchance some one to meet,
Among youths’ and maidens, women and men,
That might a hand to my own extend, 
Or find some one, at least, who might say,
“Glad to meet you! How are you today?”
So I pushed thro’ ’mid the great whirling throng,
With quick eager glance, strode swiftly along
Most-intensely scanning each form and face,
That thereby one familiar I might trace,
And exchange greetings in the old way,
“How are you? Glad to see you today!”
There were vigorous strength, and feeble old age,
All conditions, and races, engaged
In making their way along on the street,
Some minds on chances of gain, or defeat,
Some homesick may be, longing to say,
“Glad to meet you, old friends today!
Forward and backward, thro’ the grand highway,
Streamed a vast concourse all the long day,
Some moving joyously, smiling, and glad,
Many more wearily, tired and sad,
Men, women and children, passed as in play
None to me said, “How are you today?”
Pity the lonely wherever they are,
In any place, no matter where!
Pining and hungry for solace of home,
Greeting of voices in kind friendly tone,
How they’d rejoice, if some one would say,
“Glad to meet you! How are you today,"
L. M. HEWLINGS.


LIFE’S GUIDING STAR.
IN  each life there’s a bright guiding star,
	That teaches the soul of mankind,
To be honest and stand at the bar
	Of Justice and Prudence to bind
Our good deeds in life close together,
	To shut out all evil and sin
To be cheerful through dark, stormy weather
	And seek the reward he may win.

Should he list to its dictates forever
	Give heed to its "still and small voice,”
The wrong from the right we could sever
	The heart and the soul would rejoice.
Tis true that in life, disappointment,
	Oft sinks and depresses the mind
Of man, but in life there’s an ointment,
	As healing as balmy and kind.
'Tis Jesus deep pity and blessing,
	That gives a reward for all pain;
The star, as it guides, we’re confessing


Our sins and ’twill teach us so plain,
How to cast from us all that is evil,
	And teach us to do but the right
That instead of a sigh, sing a song
	And instead of the darkness, a light!
ZINA C. WALKER.


INTERESTING TOUR IN SEVIER.

Editor Exponent:
	On Saturday May 5, Sisters Mary Freeze
and Minnie J. Snow arrived here in Rich-
field for the purpose of attending the meet-
ings of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Sevier
Stake of Zion. The force of instruction
given by the ladies above named was treat-
ing upon the subjects of virtue, and chastity.
The counsels given were indeed choice,
timely and beneficial and a good time in
general was enjoyed.
	On Monday May 7, a special meeting was
held in Elsinore by the sisters of the Relief
Society, Sister Minnie J. Snow having re-
turned to Salt Take City. Present on the
stand, President Mary Freeze, President E.
Bean, Counselor Thirza Thurber and Sec-
retary Christena Cellars, sisters of the
Elsinore ward, Bishop Jensen and others.
Remarks were made by President E. Bean,
who gave good instruction. President Mary
Freeze addressed the congregation, dwelt
on the subjects of faith and hope, referred
to the Christians of former days and of the
great work that rested upon us as a people
to redeem our dead, said that the glory of
God had burst forth upon Zion. We have
great cause to rejoice and thank the Lord
for the privilege we have to be on the
earth at this favored period, gave much
good instruction to the sisters and words of
encouragement and asked that many of the
blessings of God be with us all the day
long. Admonished us to listen to the
whisperings of the Holy Spirit and be care-
ful to obey. Prayed God to bless us in all
of our callings. Counselor Thirza Thurber
had enjoyed the meetings very much, en-
dorsed the remarks of the sisters. Bore her
testimony to the truth of this work. Dwelt
on the subject of caring for our young, we
should guard them from the evils that sur-
round them. Bishop Jensen was pleased
with the meetings, endorsed the remarks of
the speakers. Remarks by Brother Broad-
band. He appreciated the good instruction
given by the sisters.
	The ladies held meetings at Joseph City
at 2 p. m. and 10 a. m. A meeting also
in Monroe, May 8. The remarks of Presi-
dent E. Bean at Joseph City are worthy of
mention. Sister Bean bore her testimony
to the truth of this work, spoke of the
mercy of our Heavenly Father. Said we
would be able to resist all evil if we were
faithful, hoped the young sisters would be
careful and not grieve the Holy Spirit and
all would be well. Dwelt on the blessiugs
and advantages that might be derived from
the practice of plural marriage. We should
live a pure and holy life. Instructed the
sisters to be careful of themselves and be
thankful for all our privileges, advised
mothers to guard their daughters from evil,
and daughters to honor their parents,
prayed the Lord to help and bless us Re-
marks were made by Sisters Thurber,
Freeze and Cellars. From Monroe the
sisters traveled to Annabella holding a meet-
ing at 3 p. m., also a meeting was held at
Inverury at 5 p. in., making three meet-
ing s in one day. The party then returned
to Richfield and at 10 a, m. May 9, held
meetings in Glenwood. From Glenwood to
Vermilion holding meeting at 10a. m. May
10 and thence to Aurora, meeting, conven-
ing at 3 p. m. the same day. Remained in
Aurora over night, and next morning,
May 11, held meeting in Redmond. Meet-
ing convened at Salina at 3 p. m. Return-
ed to Richfield Saturday May 12. Sister
Freeze returning home to Salt Lake City.
The remarks at Glenwood by President
Freeze were particularly interesting. She
dwelt on the trials of the sisters in plural
marriage and how by trusting in the Lord
we might be able to overcome ourselves.
Instructed us to be humble and do away
with our pride. Through our trials we
might be drawn nearer to our Father.
President Freeze expressed her pleasure and
surprise at seeing so many beautiful,as well
as intelligent young ladies in this Stake of
Zion. A general good time was enjoyed,
the sisters meeting with kindness and hos-
patility in all of their travels.
CHRISTENA CELLARS, Sec.


RECEPTION TO MISS WILLARD.
MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD will be in
Boston on June 23, and a reception and
breakfast will be given her by the W. C.
T. U., on that day, at the Vendome at 12
o’clock. Gen. Neal Dow, Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore, Rev. Joseph Cook, Mrs. S. S.
Fessenden, Henry B. Blackwell and others
have been invited to make addresses. It
will be a great affair, with orchestral and
vocal music and fine after-dinner speaking.
In order to bring it within the reach of all
Miss Willard’s many friends, the tickets
have been placed at $1. For sale at the
Woman’s Journal Office, and at the W. C. 
T. U. Headquarters, 171 Tremont Street.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. A. R. TEMPLE is president of the 
First National Bank, of Lexington,
Nebraska, and Miss Temple is vice-presi-
dent.
	MISS MARIE OUTHWAITE, of De Pere,
Wis., has passed an examination as an ex-
pert drummer before the musical jury ap-
pointed by Theodore Thomas. She is only
eight years old.
	THE trustees of the estates of Lady
Henry Somerset are petitioning the courts
for an injunction to restrain her from clos-
ing all the saloons on her property, which
she is seeking to do.
	DR. SARAH HACKETT STEVENSON re-
ceived the degree of Doctor of Science, last
week, from the University of Pennsylvania.
It was conferred at the same time upon
Prof. John Fiske, William T. Harris and
Gov. Pattison.
	THE Countess of Aberdeen made about
$100,000 from the Irish village at the
World’s Fair. It will be used to promote
domestic industry among Irish peasants.
	AT the convention of the State Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs of Massachusetts, 
in annual session at Marlboro, recently,
the reports showed 718 women’s organiza-
tions in the Commonwealth, with a total,
membership of 50,000. If these 50,000
intelligent, high-minded women had votes,
think what a power they would be! They
could purify the politics of the State,


148 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY	JUNE 15,1894.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	ACCORDING to promise given in last
issue, something more is here presented of
the Young Family Gathering on the First
of June.
	Sister Elizabeth Ellsworth, eldest child
of President Young, was present, from
Idaho. Her Sister Vilate Decker, was born
on her father’s birthday, and on this oc-
casion, sat at the head of the table with
President George Q. Cannon, celebrating
her sixty-fourth birthday.
	After a delicious dinner, which was ar-
ranged, and partaken of in groups, formed
by different branches of the family conven-
ing around tables prepared for the occasion,
a program was given, which consisted of
recitations, singing, music, etc. The origi-
nal articles offered were, an excellent poem
of welcome and greeting, written and read
by Miss Arretta Young, and an appropriate
poem by Lula, recited by her little son,
Heber Greene Richards. A song by
Edward Young, of Provo, youngest son of
the late President Joseph Young, was
rendered in a style which proved the young
man’s rich, baritone voice to be in keeping
with the musical ability of the family of
which he is a member. Other songs and
recitations were given from members of the
Family Association; also an impromptu ad-
dress by Seymour B. Young jun. At 10
p. m. the exercises closed, and benediction
was pronounced by Elder Evan F. Greene.
	After many kind words of parting,
with hopes of meeting again, perhaps in
one year more, the party dispersed and the
old Lion House was again left in the quiet
state which of late years it usually assumes.


WOMAN’S OPPORTUNITY.
	THE disasters on land and sea of the
last few months are very distressing to hear,
and to read, and terrible indeed to those
who are in peril. We who are compar-
atively speaking in places of safety, should
certainly be very grateful for the blessings
vouchsafed to us by our Heavenly Father,
and it should inspire us to greater faithful-
ness and diligence in serving Him, and
keeping his commandments. Not only
does it seem that the natural elements of the
world are in great commotion, causing des-
truction of many lives and millions of
property—but that mankind are seriously
affected by agencies that are not understood,
and are going hither and thither without


any fixed purpose in view, and yielding in
many instances to dangerous influences.
	In these days of confusion, calamities and
strife, it is well for women as well as men
to be wise and conservative, to maintain
that equanimity under all circumstances
that will help to keep society level, and not
run to extremes in any one direction, but
trust in God and observe the signs of the
times, that woman as a reserve force may
be ready for any great emergency where
help may be needed. And whether we all
realize it or not in the great conflicts which
are sure to transpire shortly, (because we
already have the key-note of warning)
woman will be called to act as well as to
use a silent influence, and the better pre-
pared politically, morally, mentally and
spiritually she may be, the greater helpful-
ness she can render in the coming struggles
where mankind will assuredly stand in need
of her wise counsel and aid, her economy,
her tenderness, fortitude and endurance,
and where she will have abundant oppor-
tunity to prove her ability as a help meet
to man not only in the home, but in the
public arena of life itself, taken in its
largest and most comprehensive sense.
	The broad field which the nineteenth cen-
tury has opened to woman, in which to
educate herself in the schools, colleges, and
universities, as well as the opportunities for
culture which are given through the various
clubs and organizations that are today a
noticable factor in villages, towns and cities,
will better fit and qualify her for the tre-
mendous changes that are imminent in the
horizon of today. The world is not stand-
ing still, and the advancement of the
greater civilization of which one hears so
much, and the progress made in the solution
of intricate and difficult problems in science
that so electrify the world of mankind, are
all positive proofs of the great events that
are to be wrought out in fulfillment of the
designs of the Almighty, that have been
foretold in the Scriptures by the greatest
and wisest inspired men and poets, who
have lived indifferent ages of the world’s
history, and who looked forward to the day
when these wonderful things would come
to pass, that seem now so rapidly approach-
ing a great and momentous climax.


[Column 1]		
		TO THE SISTERS.
	BELOVED SISTERS: My thoughts are oft
with my sisters and a desire to commune
with them and I would fain comfort and
encourage them amid the cares of life. My
heart is filled with love and anxiety for all
who are striving to walk in the straight and
narrow way and trying to keep the com-
mandments of Our Father in heaven; for
myself, I hope to do better in the future,
but my heart is ever full of blessings for
my sisters.
	Our dear little Exponent is our friend,
and it is a welcome visitor to all our organ-
zations, and through this medium of com-
munication I hope more often to correspond
with the sisters, than I have done hereto-
fore.
	And to my Aids do I now wish to extend
my grateful thanks for I often hear of their
diligence in giving the instructions in the
reading of the Lectures upon Faith, and
the local Presidents uniting in the pleasant
and required efforts to make this plan uni-
form throughout our Relief Society. “If
you love me feed iny sheep.” In all the

[Column 2]
branches and stakes in Utah and wherever
the saints dwell are sixty thousand children
enrolled in the Sabbath Schools and Prima-
ries that need healthy and intelligent mothers
to guide and direct these God given
treasures; and that the world may be bene-
fited and made better by their coming upon
the earth, is our fervent prayer; and to ac-
complish this, there are both spiritual and
temporal labors required, intermingled with
economy for our self support and home in-
dustry in every form, these things are re-
quisite.
	There are some intelligent and farseeing
ladies in Salt Lake City that discern the
utility and necessity of this movement in
home industry, in order to meet the con-
ditions of the present times, aud prevent
suffering. 
	Inasmuch as our long standing organiza-
tions have been blessed to do so much good
in relieving the needy in the past, and there
are now new duties requiring special atten-
tion reminding us of what we have already
passed through, and praying that we nor
any other people may ever lack bread or
the necessities of life; I feel it will require
us as a people to have courage and firmness
to meet distressing times, and circumstances
that may come; utilizing all that we can,
and that we have, and not going into debt.
We can teach our children frugality and re-
strain them from wasting even a piece of
bread; all blessings are God-given and as
Joseph Smith used to say, “I teach the
people correct principles and they govern
themselves;” so let us teach our children
by precept as well as by example correct
principles (as we cannot always be with
them) and do our duty the best we can,
observing all the requirements devolving
upon us.
	I feel truly and deeply for those in new
places struggling with the inevitable of a
new country, and I wish to say, do not be
discouraged, the Lord rules and also hears
prayer, and he will answer those who ask
his aid and assistance in humility and
sincerity.
	There is one lucrative enterprise that this
people can and should encourage, and that
is the silk industry, especially those living
in the South in Washington County. I
trust that the words of President Young
yet live in our hearts. I hope every mul-
berry tree and sprout of the mulberry will
be preserved with all due care; had we
listened and obeyed his counsel, the yearly
six weeks work would have been ere this
not less than half a million income to this
people.
	I desire and expect soon to go to Canada
to see the saints and my daughter who lives
there, and I earnestly desire to be remem-
bered by those at home and to return to the
Temple and my labors there, and to travel
and visit the Relief Society in the several
stakes of Zion and come back to my
home again in safety.
	These are a few of my thoughts and de-
sires, for my heart is in the Latter-day
work, and my prayer is that Zion may
prosper, and all her interests, and that the
Relief Society may continue to grow and
increase and make sure and steady progress
both spiritually and temporally in all that
will tend to benefit Zion and ameliorate the
condition of humanity.
	Your Sister in the Everlasting Covenant,
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG, 
				President Relief Society.
June 29, 1794.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CURRENT LITERATURE.

[A paper read in the Reapers Club,
June 11.]
	IT goes without saying that this is an
age of current literature, and also—“that
of the making of books there is no end.”
Reviews and criticisms are so profuse and
characteristically written, that one gets a
very good idea of the book itself as judged
by another’s standard, without reading it.
It is therefore comparatively easy to know
what to read, and to become familiar with
what passes as current coin in the literary
world.
   
	Undoubtedly the current literature of the
period excels in true merit that of other
days, though some books there be that can
never in our estimation be surpassed, the
Bible, Book of Mormon the Iliad, the
Odyssey, Shakespeare and Milton etc—yet
as a whole with a few exceptions, we have
more books and better, better still they reach
the masses of the people, and the people
read.
	Magazines abound in almost all known
countries, and newspapers are as thick as
cowslips in the meadows (so to speak) for
only recently a lady of my acquaintance oc-
cupied a whole afternoon in a club, telling
of only the newspapers and journals, edited,
wholly, or in part by women in the United
States.
	Speaking of American Magazines, the
Cosmopolitan has perhaps the largest circula-
tion, at the present time, of any solid
magazine, and is decidedly progressive; and
the Ladies' Home Journal larger still,
though it is of a lighter character—dealing
more with society in general.
	The Popular Science Monthly, The Cen-
tury and Harper's, maintain a strong hold
on this side the water, and deal with such
literary scientific and moral subjects as are
needful to keep the world moving. The
North American Review and the Forum;
sum up the political and general questions
of this and other countries giving every
month the opinions of the greatest leaders
and statesmen of our time, on almost every
subject of interest.
	Scribner's, Lippincotts, The Eclectic,
McClure's, Littells Living Age, The Atlan-
tic Monthly and New England Magazine,
hold their own, the last two more especially
with Eastern people who are somewhat
conservative; and we have three very
popular newer magazines that are widely
circulated; perhaps because they contain
brief notices of all current matters, and
news of the day. There are the Review
of Reviews, Current Literature, and The
Arena; the last named deals with the great
national questions, and problems that are
agitating the world, and particularly
sociological matters, progressive move-
ments and radical reforms. We have only
mentioned the most important works of
this kind, nor scarcely those, scores and
dozens yet remain unmentioned helping to
teach educational, scientific, commercial,
manufacturing and agricultural methods
and pursuits, and to mold the religious and
social views of the world of mankind.
	Perhaps the most pernicious of all the
journalistic reviews of the day are those of
the agnostic writers who believe nothing
except what can be clearly demonstrated
mathematically or scientifically.
	Many of the magazines and newspapers

[Column 2]
publish in serial forms the books, after-
wards put upon the market; by this means,
authors sometimes double and treble their
payments for work, and they also come
more within the reach of the people to do
them good.
	I will now speak of a few new books
which have recently created something of a
furore in our own country and across the
ocean, more especially in London, and the
Athens of America.
	“Ships that Pass in the Night,” named
from a beautiful quotation in Longfellow’s
tale of Elizabeth—
‘‘Ships that pass in the night, and speak each
	other in passing,
Only a signal shown and a distant voice in the
	darkness;
So on the ocean of life we pass and speak one
	another,
Only a look and a voice, then darkness again
	and a silence.”
	The skeleton of the story was written at
an Alpine resort for invalids Petershoff
which furnished the characters, but was
finished in a London drawing room.
Beatrice Harraden, the author, is herself an
invalid, and has paralysis of the ulnar
nerve of the right arm, and carries it in a
sling. She lost the use of her right hand
by over strain in writing and playing the
violoncello. She has written much for
Blackwood’s and other magazines before
this first book which has made her name
famous, "miles and miles of stuff" she says
herself.
	She is described as a bundle of nerves,
small and frail as a lily, very dark with
eyes like a Creole, wears glasses, has short
hair and is unconventional in manner, and
not yet thirty years of age, talks rapidly,
enthusiastically, with the charming accent
of a well-bred English woman—Miss Har-
radan was born in London, began her
education in Dresden, but afterwards at-
tended the London University and passed
in classics and mathematics with the title
of Bachelor of Arts, she knows nearly all
the literary people in London.
	Her books have been described by an
English Clergyman as the “Doctrine of
Despair.” Miss Harradan is at the present
time in America (possible she may come
here,) she is now enroute to California
hoping to find health in the sunshine.
Her latest book “In Varying Moods” is a
collection of stories first published in
Blackwood's and other standard English
Magazines. Her style is morbid in my
opinion, and not altogether wholesome,
though the moral sentiment is good, the
general tendency is not hopeful. I am not
surprised that it has been severely
criticised by the clergy, and she says she
receives no end of letters from people who
say “they pray for her and beseech her to
turn back to the straight and narrow
path.”
	“The Heavenly Twins” by Sarah Grand
is one of the most talked of and widely
read books of the present time, and has
been written with a purpose, showing the
mistakes made in marriage to men of im-
moral character or tendency in that direc-
tion, a note of warning to young women;
in fact the author is ambitious to arouse
mothers to the correct view which she holds,
that there should be one standard of
morality, and virtue for men and women
alike, and that all women should arouse
from the apathy which makes them sur-
render to the existing conditions of
modern society, but she wishes them to do

[Column 3]
so by the most feminine methods; she gives
in her books clear, logic, brilliant sarcasm,
arguments that clinch the facts, and show
plainly the impropriety of women taking
care of debauched husbands, from a delicate
sense of duty; the terrible consequences of
bringing into the world the offspring of
such marriages, the nauseous pleas that
excuse the man and condemn the woman
guilty of the same offense, the foolish van-
ty of society mothers, who urge their
daughters, innocent and pure, to marry for
wealth and position, or rank and title; she
vigorously portrays in tragic pen pictures,
the extreme agony and suffering; the
hideous crimes society perpetrates even in
married life, to avoid scandal and preserve
the usual conventionalities that custom and
fashionable life require. She holds up a
perfect moral, ideal standard to guide
humanity, shows that man must and can
bring to the marriage altar as unspotted
a record as he demands from the bride.
It is the doctrine of our own church as we
all know, though the world will not re-
ceive it from a “Mormon.” She has cer-
tainly displayed deep and keen intuition,
and a true realization of the corrupt condi-
tion that underlies what is termed modern,
fashionable society. Her keen appreciation
of humor is also noticable in some of the
scenes she depicts, but the dominant
characteristic is her intense sympathy with
the pains of the world.
	Ideala a book written previous to the
“Heavenly Twins,” presents a most
exalted type of perfect and well-rounded
womanhood, light-hearted, pure-souled
and extremely sensitive, married to a man
of low, moral nature, from whom the law
gives her no means of escape except in
disgrace. These two books are truly
Studies From Life, as the author herself
has styled them.
	Sarah Grand is of English parentage
though through her father she has a trace
of French blood, on her mother’s side she
is of North Country Stock, and Quaker
descent on both, her maternal grandfather
however was turned out of the Society
of Friends because he would hunt; the
writer was born in Ireland where her
father was quartered in command of a
naval station, her two brothers “true to
to the family tradition went into the Royal
Navy:” she says of herself that she was
brought up on Punch and the Saturday
Review, both published in London. She
left school at sixteen, and was married im-
mediately after to an officer in the army
whom she accompanied to the East,
through Malta, Egypt and Ceylon, to China
and Japan. She has produced many short
stories previous to her books, in fact while
writing them, which are said to be perfect
little works of art. “Kane” the disrepre-
table, lovable, old soldier-servant, “Janey”
the Lancashire cripple girl, “Boomillan”
the ineffectual, “Ah Man” the Chinaman,
“The Yellow Leaf” and “Eugenia;”
another effort in ordinary fiction was en- 
titled “Singularly Deluded,” in all these
her characters are never weak, the senti-
mental young man or yearning female, but
portray the real heroism of human endur-
ance. Such books are better calculated to
inspire those who read them to higher ex-
cellence, and certainly every intelligent
young woman might read with profit before
marriage, Ideala and the Heavenly Twins
for her own enlightenment. Like many
other women Sarah Grand feels she has a
special message to deliver.


[Column 1]
	Jean Ingelow, whose books are great
favorites with both the English and
American people, is undoubtedly one of
the finest, purest and most sympathetic
poets of our day. Her life too has been
like a rhthymical poem set to sweet music.
Her girlhood was passed in an atmosphere
of goodness, with books and cultivated
people for daily companionship. We
realize from what we know of her, that
she is a beautiful type of womanhood; she
has never married, though without doubt
she has enshrined in her heart some
memories of the past that beautify her soul,
and gladden her lonely life. Whoever has
read her books must necessarily feel how
vividly she describes nature, especially the
sea, and with what reverence, purity and
tenderness her work is interwrought.
“The High Tide on the Coast of Lincoln-
shire,” and “The Songs of Seven” are
among her best poems, though there are
other favorites, some lovers of poetry may
prefer “Divided,” “The Four Bridges”
and “The Two Margarets” are perhaps 
equally good and as truly poetical. Her
prose works are all meritorious, the best so
considered entitled “Off the Skilligs” is a
novel, with a soul in it, it imparts an in-
fluence superior to momentary enjoyment,
presents cheerful views of life and modestly
exalts nobility of character; it is a delight-
ful book. “Mopsa the Fairy” is a charm-
ing fairy story, and she has written several
other children’s books; one called “A
Sister’s Bye Hours,” containing seven
stories. Miss Ingelow is intensely
benevolent and for many years has given at
her home in London, three times a week,
what she calls her "copyright dinner," to
which she invites twelve needy persons,
generally those who have just been dis-
missed from the Hospitals. Jean Ingelow
was born in Boston, England, of English
Scotch ancestry; her London house is in
Kensington, crowned with ivy in the midst
of a garden, half-hidden by trees; she
spends her summers in the South of France
in a cottage over looking the Meditteranean.
	“Traffic in Girls” and the “Florence Crit-
tenden Missions" is one of the most power-
fully written books of the day. It is by
Charlton Edholm (her full name is Mary
Gow Charlton Edholm) the book deals with
the social purity question and reveals the
pitfalls before our girls; it shows the cruel
injustice of man-made laws in such a way
that every woman who thinks deeply
should be a determined woman suffragist—
if for no other reason than to right the in-
famous wrongs that exist in all our large
cities viz. the age of consent, and other
equally demoralizing influence of the
double standard of morals. It gives a
chapter from the Pall Mall Gazette a
revelation to show the frightful condition
of moral leprosy which exists today. Mrs.
Edholm has written much material for
newspapers descriptive articles for Chicago
Tribune, St. Louis Post Dispatch, and
New York World, The Republican and
Inter Ocean and is one of the suffrage and
press women with whom I am somewhat
acquainted. Her labors and her literary
works are so varied, and so great and many,
that it is not possible to mention them by
name in this paper. I must pass on to one
or two more leading lights in the books of
the day; but in this connection I ought cer-
tainly to mention Helen H. Gardener’s two
books. “Is This Your Son My Lord?”
said to be the most powerfully written novel
by an American. A terrible expose of

[Column 2]
conventional immorality and hypocrisy
the other “Pray You Sir Whose Daughter?”
A brillant novel of today dealing with
social purity, and the age of consent.
	Margaret Deland whose maiden name
was Campbell, is one of my special favorites.
Harper's Magazine and The Century
gladly publish her poems, “The Old
Garden and Other Verses,” is one of the
best books in our libraries of today, the
volume has gone through six editions.
Her most popular work was “John Ward
Preacher” a novel which passed through
six editions in five months, a later novel
“Sidney” and a descriptive work “Florida
Days” are also well received; she writes
short stories for magazines principally the
Atlantic Monthly and Longman's Maga-
zine published in Boston, all her writings
are popular and the public look forward to
them with delightful anticipation. Mrs.
Deland was born in Pittsburg Feb. 23, in
1857—was married in 1880 to Louis F.
Deland and moved to Boston, Mass. which
has since been her home, her husband is
also inclined to literature and is of great
assistance to her, in her work.
	Margaret Elizabeth Sangster, another
notable writer and poet, is a regular con-
tributor to many leading periodicals and
has done much editorial work on news-
papers, she edited Harper's Young People
at one time, and in 1890, became editor of
Harper's Bazaar which position she still
occupies. Her books are extensively read,
principal among them are “Poems of the
Household” “Home Fairies and Heart
Flowers,” and a series of Sunday School
Books. During all her busy years she
has written poems of a high order. All
her works have a decidedly high moral
tone and are helping to make the world
better. Mrs. Sangster was born in New
Rochelle, New York, in 1838, her maiden
name was Munson married in 1858—
George Sangster. Mrs. Sangster author
and editor is a conspicuous personage in
the literary and social circles in New York.
Her home is in Brooklyn. Her household
consists of several relatives among them
her grand-children of her dead son and
step-daughter.
	The poems and books of Louise Chand-
ler Moulton are widely circulated and read
with intense interest in England as well as
America. Her first book “This That and
the Other” appeared in 1854, it sold won-
derfully, “Juno Clifford” appeared in
1855, she has brought out many books,
both in England and her own country, too
many to mention here even by title "Some
Women’s Hearts,” “Miss Eyre from Bos-
ton,” “Ourselves and Our Neighbors,”
“Random Rambles,” will give you some
idea; besides books she writes narratives
and sketches, and from 1870 to 1876 she
was the Boston literary correspondent of
the New York Tribune and for nearly five
years wrote a weekly letter on bookish
topics for the Boston Sunday Herald. But
it is to her two volumes of poems I par-
ticularly wish to call your attention.
“Swallow Flights” and “In the Garden of
Dreams” one thousand copies of the last
named were sold in twelve days. Her
literary reputation rests, it is said, and it
ought to upon her poetry. Mrs. Moulton
is in herself the dedicated and conscientious
poet “whose wares are marketable, and
even popular, some critics place her son-
nets at the head of their kind in America.”
Certainly to me, her poetry is golden, rich,
and full of impassioned melody, emotions,

[Column 3]
reveries, with a note of melancholy sweet-
ness. Since the death of Phillip Bourke
Marston in 1887, she has edited two
volumes of his verses “Garden Secrets”
and “A Last Harvest,” and is now en-
gaged on editing his poetical works as a
whole. Louise Chandler was born in
Pomfret, Connecticut, April 5, 1835, she
married William U. Moulton, a well-known
Boston journalist. She has spent sixteen
consecutive summers in Europe, and is as
much at home in London, as in America;
she is one to whom all circumstances are
kind, and whom success has never spoiled,
and is a most enviable figure among
American women of letters. She is pos-
sessed of a gracious nature and has always
been much sought after. Many young
writers have had from her encouragement
and sympathy, and some rank almost as
her own household for she has but one 
daughter who is in her own home far
away,
	The newest and most popular book since
Marcella (of which Mrs. Thomas told you) ,
is “Margaret Salisbury," by Mary Hol-
land Lee. The public are enthusiastic
over this new book, there are many pas-
sages in it like a fine etching, the critics
say it is even better than “The Heavenly
Twins,” though by an American author
the situations are aome of them not parallel
but similar, and although Madame Grand
did her work well the scenes in Margaret
Salisbury are made much clearer, sharper 
and more vivid. There is a beauty in the
story that appeals to healthy men and wo-
men, the author feels and knows that this
life is not all, yet loves the common things
of earth, and has a sympathy for the lowly
and the everyday, that marks the lofty soul.
In this book too the sea is a consolation, a
sympathetic power, the nightingale pours
forth a love plaint, one hears the leaves
stir, and the hum of bees, and the faint
odor of wind-blown roses, and above it all
the blue sky. I am sorry I have not more
time to tell you of the many new books
that seem to make such an impress on the
times in which we live—and sorry too, not
to touch upon our home authors and poets;
but I trust those who follow me will not
forget Eliza R. Snow, Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney, Hannah T. King, Emily H. Wood-
mansee, Henry W. Naisbett and others in 
due course of time.
E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

LONDON RELIEF SOCIELY.
	President, Sister E. Bradford; First
Counselor, S. F. Jennings; Second Counse- 
lor, Mrs. Francis; Secretary, Mrs. Francis;
Number of members, 8; Visits made by
sisters, 33; Last year’s members left for
Zion, 2; Cottage meetings, 3; Collections
for poor and Elders room £12. 18s 8½d; Paid
to poor and for elders room, £12. 14s 11½d;
Balance in hand, 3s 9d.

SNOWFLAKE, ARIZONA.
	THE Relief Society conference of this
stake was held at Snowflake May 26th 1894.
There was a tolerably good attendance of
the sisters. President Emma S. Smith and
her counselors were present. There was a
short program, consisting of lectures on
the subjects, “Faith,” “Repentance” and
Baptism.” Verbal reports were given by
the presidents of most of the branches.


[Column 1]
All are trying to live their religion and aid
all they can in the great work.  A good
spirit is manifested by the sisters whenever
the teachers visit them.
	President Jesse N. Smith made some re-
marks on home industry, and urged the
sisters to use care in the preparation of
food.  Also spoke of their using good taste
in the adornment of their persons, but
suggested that whenever practicable it
should be the workmanship of their own
hands.
	There was a meeting of the sisters held
in the evening of May 27.  Remarks were
made by a number of the visiting sisters.
The subjects of home manufacture and the
purchase of a carding machine were touch-
ed upon by all the speakers.  The sisters
voted to assist all they could in purchasing
a carding machine.
	President Emma S. Smith made closing
remarks. Hoped we would be more self-
sustaining in the future. 
			DELLA FISH,
					Stake Secretary.

SPRINGVILLE MEETING.
	ON June 14th the  W. S. A. presided 
over by Sarah A. Boyer, held a meeting at
Springville at which Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Zina D. H. Young, L. John Nuttall, 
Brother Kelsey and others addressed the
audience on the question of woman and
her responsibilities.
	An interesting feature of the programme
was a recitation by Miss Nellie Boyer, "Our
Jamie,” which brought tears to many.
	At 2 p. m. the Relief Society presided over
by Mrs. E. Packard was addressed by the
above named ladies and Brother Nuttall,
after which a number took the 4:04 train to
Castila, returning at 3 next morning.
	The elegant supper, the baths, etc., were
highly appreciated by the company.
			NETTIE CRANDALL, Sec.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake,
met in conference on Friday March 9th
1894, in the meeting house at Thatcher.
President Wilmirth East presided.  Meet-
ings were held at 10. a. m. and 2. p. m.
Present on the stand of the presiding
priesthood were Presidents Layton and
Johnson, Patriarch P. C. Merrill and
Bishop Claridge of Thatcher.  President
East made a few opening remarks in which
she expressed her thankfulness for the
health of the people generally, and the
beautiful weather which had permitted so
many to meet together; testified of the evil
which is abroad in the land and exhorted
the sisters to diligence in the performance
of their duties.  Suggested the reading of
the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Cov-
enants in the Society meetings, explained the
duties of Relief Society teachers and
emphasized the importance of visiting the
sick and destitute, whether Jew or Gentile,
urged the societies to keep on hand material
for the burying of the dead.
	Verbal reports were given from the follow-
ing branches of the Society, Thatcher,
Pima, Layton, Central, Graham, Mathews,
Bryce and Curtis, which showed them in
good condition with an increased attendance
during the last quarter with one or two
exceptions.
	President C. Layton said the sisters this
morning have taught us life and salvation.
All should be cared for especially those born
heirs to the kingdom.  The young of both

[Column 2]
sexes should be very choice in their selec-
tion of companions for life.
	The names of the officers of the Central
Board and Stake were presented by the
secretary and unanimously sustained by
the congregation.  Counselor Mary L.
Ransom, spoke on the observance of the
laws of life and health, economy and in-
dustry, the influence of the mother over her
offspring etc. The meeting then closed un-
til 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session:  The speakers were
Sisters Cluff, Warren, Ransom and Patria-
arch P. C. Merrill, who spoke in behalf of
his wife, Syrena first counselor to President
East, who was detained at home in conse-
quence of ill health, also Sister Nancy
Rollins and President East.  The subjects
spoken on in the morning were referred to
and enlarged upon, particularly that of the
responsibility of the mother in the rearing
and training of her children.  Conference
adjourned for three months.  Benediction
by G. W. Williams.
				SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.

			 WASATCH STAKE.
Editor Exponent:
	THE semi-annual Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Wasatch Stake, convened in
the meeting house at Midway, May 31st
1894, at ten o’clock a. m. and 2 p. m. 
President Emma Brown and Counselors be-
ing present, also President Hatch and L.
H. Giles of the Stake Presidency, Bishop
Watkins of Midway, Bishop N. C. Mur-
dock of Charleston and several other Elders.
The singing exercises during the Conference
were very creditably rendered under the
leadership of Elder John Huber of Mid-
way.  Conference was opened at 10 o’clock
by singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning etc.”  Prayer by Bishop N. C.
Murdock. Singing, “My God the spring
of all my joys etc.”  The roll was called
twenty officers being present.  The minutes
of the morning session of the last con-
ference were read and accepted.  President
Brown made a few opening remarks, after
which all the branches except two were re-
presented as being in a very favorable con-
dition, those reporting also bore strong
testimonies to the truth of the Latter-day
work and the benefit of the Relief Society.
Counselor Sarah Alexander spoke a short
time, and after singing conference was ad-
journed till 2 p. m.  Benediction by Elder
Conrad Abbegglen.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened at
2 p. m. by singing, “Earth with her ten
thousand flowers.”  Prayer by Elder Wm.
Daybell sen.  Singing by choir and con-
gregation, “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”  The minutes of the afternoon
session of former conference were read and
accepted.  The statistical and financial re-
port for the six months ending February
28th, was also read and accepted.  President
Brown spoke encouragingly of the reports
as rendered, also gave some very good and
timely counsel to the sisters.  Stake Presi-
dent of the Primary Association, Sister Ann
Murdock, related some of her experiences,
spoke of being present at the first meeting
of the Relief Society held in Salt Lake City,
and said one sister there spoke in tongues
and the interpretation given was that this
society should extend throughout the
mountains, said this was literally fulfilled to
day, also gave good counsel to the mothers
and bore a strong testimony to the truth of
Mormonism. Counselor Mary Daybell made

[Column 3]
some encouraging remarks. Bishop N. C.
Murdock, Counselor T. H. Giles, Bishop
Watkins and President Hatch each made
very interesting and encouraging remarks.
President Hatch presented the Stake Offlcers
of the Society and they were all unanimous-
ly sustained. Sister Brown thanked all
who had in any way helped to make this
conference such a success as it had been and
adjourned the conference for six months.
Singing,  “Know this that every soul is
free.”  Benediction by Bishop Watkins.
		HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.
	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held at the
office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, May 31st, 1894,
President E. R. Shipp in the chair.
Prayer by E. B. Wells. Roll call responded
to with quotations from Pope. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Miss
Gladys Woodmansee gave a lecture upon
the subject of psychology, M. E. Shipp
gave a vocal selection. A poem written by
E. R. Shipp was read by Mrs. C. Louise
Boydon, Dr. R. B. Pratt read a paper on
theosophy. A recitation was given by
Ellis Shipp. President Shipp referred to
the visit of the U. W. P. Association and
some items of interest she had gleaned
from them. Dr. E. B. Ferguson, club
critic gave criticism upon the various
numbers of the evening program, said
she was sorry that the lecture on Feeling
had not been given before the Will where
it belonged, as Will is the king faculty of
the mind and had it been given as the
climax, we could better realize its true
position in the mind.
	After benediction, refreshments were
served and the usual informal chat was in-
dulged in until time for adjournment.
	Program for June 30th: Woman’s Press
Clubs, L. S. Dickinson; Pen Women, E. B.
Wells; Thirty minutes discussion on
Theosophy, by the members; Music, C. L.
Boyden; Original poem, Mary A. Freeze;
Quotations from the writings of Emerson.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


W. S. A.
	MINUTES of the W. S. A. held June 19,
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall.
First Vice President Adella W. Eardley in
the chair, Sang, “Come Away.” Prayer
by E. M. Price. Sang “America.” Roll
called, minutes of April and May read and
approved. Mary Lois Morris read E.
R. Snow’s poem, on “Nationality.”
Speech from Zerviah T. Eardley, had
her name enrolled in the organization,
was a firm believer in Woman’s Rights, we
inform our minds upon all subjects. Wo-
man’s influence is felt, was connected with
Young Ladies and the Relief Society, but
thought home duties should come first,
with management we can spare time for
many things, women should have the right
to vote, and when doing the same work as
man should have the same pay; then read a
poem entitled “What woman makes man.”
Third Vice President Julia Druce made
some excellent remarks. Second Vice
President E. M. Price read from the Wo-
man's Journal, a piece on Elections. Dr.
Ferguson referred to an article read, and
explained many points in regard to what
can be done through legal quibbles; referred
to the actions of some Governors who had
been elected for the Populist Party, also to


the large amount of Italian dagos who are
being brought to this country who are tak-
ing the work from honest workmen. Utah
is likely to become a state and should go in
on the platform of Equal Suffrage.
Ruth M. Fox read an excellent piece show-
ing the equality of sex from the Bible.
	President MacFarlane showed from the 
Bible many instances where destruction had
come from not respecting women. We
like strong, true reliable men, let us as-
sociate with no other. Adjourned until
July. Benediction M. E. Irvine. 
				M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. SORENSON’S CLASS.
	THE Woman’s Reform class met in con-
ference at the meeting house at 10 a. m.,
Friday, in Provo. Sister Hannah Sorenson
presiding.
	Sister Keeler made the opening address.
She was pleased to see the interest taken in
this great work. This class started with
only twenty members, now there are about
that many associations. She felt to give
them all a hearty welcome, and prayed God
to aid those who were called upon to take
part.
	Reports were given by the presidents of
the five permanent organizations—Lehi,
Sister Standring; Pleasant Grove, Sister
Eliza Brown; Springville, Sister Hafen;
Provo, Sister Mecham; American Fork,
Sister Clark. The work of Spanish Fork
and Payson were reported by Sister Soren-
sen, there being in attendance sixty-one and
forty four respectively. Out side of the
regular work, Sister Sorensen has intro-
duced a class for young girls, between the
ages of ten and fourteen, instructions being
given on Hygiene, Morals and Manners,
etc., suitable to their ages and ability.
	A hymn was sung by the congregation
after which a very creditable paper on
“Social Purity’’ was read by Sister Stand-
ring of Lehi. Following this was an essay
by Eliza Brown on “Woman and Reform.’’
Sister Rose Hayes from Pleasant Grove
spoke a short time on “pre-natal influence.”
Dr. Noyes expressed himself as being in
sympathy with this work. Congregation
sang the Doxology. After adjournment the
visitors repaired to the Tabernacle where an
informal lunch was partaken of.
	A large audience was present in the after-
noon.
	After the opening exercises the following
officers were sustained:
	President, Delia I. Booth, Provo; first
counselor, Ida Allen, Provo; second coun-
selor, Mary Ann Webb, Lehi; secretary,
Ivy Sims, Provo; assistant secretary, Zina
Chipman, American Fork; treasurer, Eliza-
beth Hill, Springville.
	Sister Olive Anderson from Springville,
gave a very pleasing and instructive lecture
on “Hygienic Cooking.” Sister Hafen
gave a lecture on “Harmony in Line and
Color,,’ illustrated with a number of
pictures. Sister Ida Allen read an essay on
the unnecessary suffering to which women
are subjected by wrong methods of living.
“The True Healing Art” was ably treated
by Sister Anna Hindley of American Fork.
Sister Katie Cragan, from Smithfield, spoke
a few words. Dr. Allen expressed himself
as being highly pleased with the work of
Reform, and desired to assist in every way.
Brother Henry Tanner spoke well of the
work, and said that no good thing was ever
commenced without opposition. He took


the Savior’s life for an example. Brother
Wossencroft fully endorsed the proceedings
of the class. Sister Susa Gates, Brother
Oscar Young and others spoke a short time.
	The congregation sang “There’s a land
that is fairer than day.”
	Benediction, Brother Boyer. The con-
ference adjourned for one year.


AN ENJOYABLE AFFAIR.

	IT has been a long time perhaps, since
you have heard any thing from this little
town and it may not be out of place to say
that Mrs. Louisa Sanders, Mrs. Mary E.
Marble, Mrs. Eunice Bleak Sanders and
Mrs. Helena Kempe Naegle, were appointed
a committee to get up a surprise, which
took place here on the 19th of May, to
celebrate the birthday of the wife of our
worthy Bishop C. I. Kempe. Sister Olena
Kempe who is counselor in the Kelief
Society and President of the Primary.
Sister Kempe being absent the sisters
thought to surprise her when she returned
at dusk; all was still, she opened the door
of her beautiful parlor and was greeted
with a loud burst of music and song. She
stood transfixed with astonishment.
	Bishop Kempe called the house to order
and offered up a fervent prayer. The young
ladies’ sang, “Oh my father thou that
dwellest.”
	Bishop Kempe stepped forward and said
the young people all liked novels and he
would tell them one, he then related the
early history of his wife, her conversion
to our faith, and her trials, and troubles in
leaving her parents, and her wealthy home in
Norway her native country. A few lines
were then read composed by Mrs. M. P.
Killian telling of Sister Kempe’s many
virtues, describing her worth and goodness,
her kindness to the poor and needy, and to
the sick and suffering.
	A song was then sung by Misses Minnie
and Hattie Bilby. Lines were read com-
posed by Miss Maggie Green. Mrs. Kempe
made a few remarks and welcomed the
company to her home. Mrs. E. I. Pulsipher
sang, “Daughter don’t let mother do it.’’
A recitation by Miss Anna Green. A song
by Mrs. May Pulsipher, Organist. Mrs. E.
Sanders read a piece entitled "Over worked."
Miss O. S. Kempe and George Cheney
sung, “Oh, what shall the harvest be.”
Instrumental music by G. H. Killian and
G. F. Sanders. Reading by Mrs. Loretta
Kempe. Song by Miss Sarah and Louisa
Cheney. Recitation by Miss Julia Curtis,
called “Love and Laughter.”
	A sumptuous supper was laid out in the
dining room which all partook of freely.
After supper there was music, songs and
dancing, the evening closed with prayer by
Brother David Sanders, and all retired to
their homes feeling they had been well
paid. M. P. K.
Erastus Arizona, May 1894.


IN MEMORIAM.

	CHLOE WOOLF, the beloved daughter of Isaac
and Ellen Woolf departed this life, June 6th, 1894,
with heart disease and dropsy, aged sixteen years,
and four days.
	Dearest Chloe thou hast left us
	And our hearts are sorely grieved,
	But there is great consolation,
	From suffering now thou art relieved,
	And we know our Father loveth,
	One so pure, so kind and true,
	And we feel if we are faithful,
	We may sometime, come to you.
COM.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.

Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

[Column 1]
Leave Salt Lake:
*7:45 a.m.
10:20 “
2:00 p.m.
3:00 “
†6:30 “

[Column 2]
Arrive Salt Lake:
12:40 p.m.
*4:00 "
4:40 "
6:10 "
†10:10 "
*Daily except Sunday. †Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.

[Column 1]
S H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Ellery Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.

[Column 2]
Receivers.

[Column 3]
D. E. BURLEY
	GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils AND Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
	and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DUNFORD'S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON’T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But’
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bros. Stables

