
Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 2. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, June 1, 1873.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
			      —
	Texas, also, has been shaken up with an
earthquake.
	The best band for a woman’s  “head’.’—
A reliable hus-band.
	It is held that General Grant is working
fora third term in the White House.  And
if successful, then?
	Pere Hyacinthe has become a father
according to the flesh, Madame Loyson, his
wife having presented him with a son.
And now he preaches against celibacy.
	It is proposed to establish a training
school for nurses in the Connecticut State
hospital, at New Haven and a proposition
so sensible and so novel should succeed.
	It is a penal offense to sell newspapers in
Hamilton, Ohio, on Sunday; but slanderous
gossip is allowed to circulate freely without
punishment. Hamilton is religious—in its
way. 
	The belief that, had Cain been tried be-
fore a modern jury for killing Abel he
would have been acquitted on the ground
of  "emotional insanity,” is fading before
the late executions for murder in different
parts of the United States.
	The Hot Creek band of Modoc Indians
have surrendered, with more “squaws and
papooses” than usually foil to the share of
the same number of male Indians. And
the knowing ones think that Captain Jack
hasonly relieved himselfof non-combatants
to carry on the “war” with increased vigor.
	Dubuque, Iowa, has a couple of girls in
jail for stealing shade trees. The crime is a
peculiar one, and the question arises how
for their love of the beautiful was responsi-
ble for the act? And what a curious
combination of peculiarities might not be
discovered in persons presenting such
diverse characteristics?
	Female emancipation makes wonderful
strides in the republic of Switzerland. At
the last term of Zurich University 110 lady
students were entered and this term 119
are already reported entered with the lists
not closed. The assignment of professional
chairs to women is only considered a matter
of time. And the end is, not yet.  
	The question of George Francis Train’s
sanity or insanity still occupies the attention
of New York judges,and the “next Presi-
dent of America” is confined to a “bastile”
and made to suffer the same penality as if
he was proved guilty of some crime.  It is
surmised that it Train was less wealthy his
sanity would not long trouble the courts.
	“Taxation without representation”
was one great cry in the colonies before the
War of Independence overthrew the British
power. Now the Territories and the
women are taxed without representation.
And the tax-paying women of Rochester,
New York, are organizing and agitating to
discover, if possible, why they should be
subjected to an injustice which the revolu-
tionary fathers preferred to risk life for rather
'than submit to. All success, then, to the
women of Rochester and their example
should be emulated by every tax-paying
woman in the country; and by all the citi-
zens of the Territories, men and women.
[new column]
 “Woman’s Right to work," is a subject
treated upon in a woman’s paper of late
date. Most women have ample opportuni-
ties of gaining practical proof of their
unmitigated right to work, and the neces-
sity of their making full use of that preroga-
tive. The great trouble is with the majority,
they work too much, and think, reason,
contrive and rest too little.
  James Harrison and his daughter, resid-
ing near Walla Walla, Washington Territory,
recently defended themselves against five
Indians, until assistance arrived and cap-
tured three of the Indians. And the world
is united to eulogize them, while the
name of the daughter, who had the courage
and nerve to knock down one of the Indians
with an axe, isn’t even given to the public.
By one man wilfully using powder in the
part of a coal pit where he worked, in Nova
Scotia, about two weeks ago, an explosion of
the gasses in the mine occurred, setting fire
to it and resulting in a horrible death to
fifty-nine men, leaving thirty widows and
ninety-two fatherless children. And such
terrible disasters the result of wilful obsti-
nacy and recklessness, are called “acci-
dents!” 
The ambitious Khedive Of Egypt is
visiting his master, the Sultan of Turkey,
whom he hopes yet to disregard and defy
while the Sultan, who fears and is jealous
of his powerful satrap, receives him with
open arms. All the world is supposed to
know the feelings that exist between them
and all the world may admire in them the
hypocrisy which crowned heads deem a
part of their political education.
The trial of Susan B. Anthony and
fourteen other women, who cast their votes
last Presidential election, and of the inspec-
tor of election who received the votes, is
set for June, to be tried before the Circuit
Court, at Canandaigua, New York. And
the United States, which has raised the late
slaves to the dignity of political sovereignty,
proposes to punish, as criminals, a few of
the most intelligent women in the country
for exercising the right of political citizen-
ship.
A Young woman in one of the govern-
ment departments in Washington was
detected “in conduct unbecoming an offi-
cer,” and was dismissed. In other words
she had been seduced, and her sin was found
out. But her seducer was, apparently, not
guilty of “conduct unbecoming an officer,”
as he was not dismissed. He remains in
his position, receives the public money,
enters society, can be guilty frequently of
immorality, may boast of it, nay may drag
other victims down to shame, and yet
nothing of all this is “conduct unbecoming
an officer”—in him. And why is this so?
And wherefore should he, because he is a
man, be free to enact, unharmed, his wick-
edness and immorality? Why should he be
supported with government money in his
crimes, and have an impunity to sin
more than the woman who has fallen
victim to his arts, in the immediate employ-
ment of the “best government under the
sun?” Here is work for the reformers in high
places, if they are honest and serious; here
is a chance to show that it is not sex, nor
[new column]
ondition, but purity and worth that shouId
eceive pay, for this matter is no secret, and
it has called forth numerous strictures in
Washington society. But still the “young
man” remains a public servant; and the
“young woman” becomes a castaway!
  Among the signs of the times we note a
fearful tornado that swept over Washington
County, Iowa, on the 23rd ult., perhaps the
most terrible ever reported on the continent.
The roaring of the tornado is reported to
have been appalling six miles from its track,
and was heard fully ten miles away.
The following is taken from the descrip-
tion of it, as reported at the time by tele-
graph: “The tornado was about a half a mile
in width and tore into fragments every-
thing that came in its course. Houses,
barns, fences, trees, cattle and human beings
were caught up and whirled through the
air like mere toys and then dashed to the
ground with such violence as to produce
instant death. Houses and barns were torn
in fragments and scattered for miles around.
The fields are dotted with large timbers
driven into the ground at an angle of ninety
degrees, and cattle were actually driven
head foremost into the ground. One can
scarce conceive of the devastation or realize
the force of the tornado. Already we have
heard of thirteen farm houses and many
barns that were literally torn to pieces and
many others that were badly damaged. A
school house, six miles north of here was
torn to pieces and a fourteen-year old
daughter of Henry Rathnel was carried
about a quarter of a mile from the school
house and dashed to the ground and crushed
to a jelly. Miss Smith, the teacher, and
six or eight scholars were hurt, some badly.
Mrs. Henry Watters was killed. Miss
Gardner and a son of Alexander Gibson Ho
at the point of death from their injuries.
A gentleman who was near the tornado
when it passed, reports that it was balloon-
shaped with the small end to the ground and
moved at the rate of about twenty miles an
hour. It commenced its fearful work near
Keoka, where it demolished several resi-
dences. We next hear of it about six miles
northeast, where it destroyed two or three
houses, and as it passed on northeast it
scattered to the four winds the fine resi-
dences and barns of Alex. Gibson, J. A.
Babcock, and J. C. Culingbone. It also
leveled to the ground the dwellings of D.
Caucorf and H. Walters. Mr. Carringer and
Mr. Kerr and many persons lives were
saved by hastily getting into their cellars:
Sad havoc was made with all kinds of stock.
An eye witness says he could she large
pieces of timber hurled from the cloud as
though shot from a cannon. Hail felt that
measured nine inches In diameter. Some
were brought to this city and four hours
after they were picked up,- they were still
as large as hen’s eggs. A telegram from
Keoka last evening says five persons were
killed about three miles from that place
and one child was torn to pieces.” This is
the warning of storm and tempest, which
has been promised to succeed the solemn
testimony of God’s judgments at hand in
these latter days; but the people pay little
more heed to the terrible character, of. the
one, than they did to the gentle and heavenly
natfire of the other.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ACROSTIC.
				——
When women unite and each other invite,
"Oh come and subscribe for our paper."
May a blessing attend upon all who defend,
And help us to prai e our Creator;
Now, we are but a few yet we great things can do,
Sisters come join heart and hand,
Every one take delight and contribute her might, the
'XPONENT to send through the land
People all the world round think us trodden down,
Oppress'd and degraded, but know,
No existence as yet out of our Deseret
E'er the blessings of peace could bestow;
Nothing here can compare with our husbands, to
	share
The great gifts eternal, began here below.
							MRS. E. L. Hyde,
13TH WARD, Salt Lake City.


﻿MY CHOICE.
			      ——
		BY JENNIE HARRISON.
			       ——
Yes; I know there are stains on my carpet—
    The traces of small muddy boots;
And I see your fair tapestry glowing
    All spotless with blossoms and fruits!

And I know that my wal's are disfigured
    With prints of small fingers and hands;
And I see that your own household whiteness
    All fresh in its purity stands.

Yes, I know my "black walnut” is battered,
    And dented by many small heels;
While your own polished stairway, all perfect,
    Its smooth shining surface reveals !

And I know that my parlor is littered
    With many odd treasures and toys;
While your own is in daintiest order, 
    Unharmed by the presence of boys!

And I know that my room is invaded
    Quite boldly all hours of the day;
While you sit in your own unmolested
    And dream the soft quiet away !

Yes, I know I have jacke's that wear out,
    And buttons that never will stay;
While you can embroider at leasure.
    And learn pretty arts of "crochet.”

And I know there are lessons in spelling,
    Which I must be patient to hear;
While you may sit down to your novel,
    Or turn the last magazine near.

Yes, I know there are four little bedsteads 
   Where I must stand watchful each night;
While you may go out in your carriage,
    And flash in your dresses so bright !

Now, I think I’m a neat little woman—
    I like my house orderly, too;
And I’m fond of all dainty belongings—
    Yet I would not change places with you !

No! keep your fair home, with its order,
    Its freedom from trouble and noise;
And keep your own fanciful leisure;
    But give me my four splendid boys !


R.S. REPORTS.
			—
		Richfield, May 11th, 1873.
Dear Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
 I deem it a privilege and a duty to write
a few lines for your interesting paper.  I
have an earnest desire to assist in rolling
forth the work in which we are engaged in
these the last days. We have a Relief
Society organized here in Richfield, which
is doing much good in helping the poor,
both at home and abroad. In our last
monthly meeting, May 1st, we agreed to
omit the word “Female” from the name of
our Society. The sisters, in general, feel
well in their religion; and are well paid for
taking your paper; much information is
gained there, from.
  May we ever increase in the Truth.
	Respectfully yours in the Gospel,
		Eliza A. Ogilvie, President.
			 —
 From Providence, Cache County, April
29th, 1873: The Relief Society of this
place, held its annual meeting in the school-
[new column]
room, on Monday, 28th inst. Owing to a
snow storm prevailing that day the meeting
was slimly attended. The Secretary read
the income and expenditure for the past
year; which showed a balance of $103:23 in
favor of the Society. The sisters present
bore faithful testimonies to the good which
had been effected through their weak instru-
mentality also expressed united desires to
support and strengthen, by their labor and
means and further extend the usefulness
of the thriving institution. A few of the
brethren followed with congratulatory and
encouraging remarks, which brought the
meeting to a close, every one enjoying a
fulness of the Spirit of God. We thank-
fully receive the Exponent which is much
appreciated.
	Mrs. Margaret Mathews, Prest.
			    —
 The Relief Society of Ogden met in the
new city hall, May 1st, 1873, to engage in a
meeting and “Pic nic.”.
 President Mrs. J. S. Richards called .the
meeting to order:  Singing:  Prayer by
Secretary Mrs. A. M. Frodsham: Singing:
Minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
President Mrs. J. S. Richards remarked
that she had invited the young ladies from
the schools to come to meeting: President
Young had given a great deal of good in-
struction to the sisters during Conference;
he wished them to save all their paper
rags, thus assisting to commence measures
for making their own paper and books. She
liked the Exponent very much and hoped
the sisters would all try to take it. Sister
Belknapp, President of the Relief Society,
at Hoopersville, and sister Higbee from
Salt Lake City, made appropriate remarks.
  Elder F. D. Richards felt truly thankful
to see so many of the sisters together; hoped
the society would continue to increase until
every good sister was united with it. Be-
sides blessing the poor, one great object
of the society was that the daughters of
Zion might learn their duties as mothers
and towards each other; treasuring up every
thing that was good, and overcoming all
that was evil. Life's labors were life’s
pleasures.  Brother Phineas Richards gave
excellent instructions in regard to bringing
up children and how they should be dressed.
Advised the sisters to search the Sciptures
and learn to understand truth from error for
themselves. Sister Wordsworth next ad-
dressed the meeting, and was followed by
sister Petry, who said that the next Sunday
she would be eighty-three years old, and
she thanked God that she had embraced the
Gospel.   Sister Elizabeth Browning and
sister Hadlock made remarks. President
Mrs. J. S. Richards felt blessed in listening
to the testimonies of father Phineas Rich-
ards, eighty-five, and mother Petry, eighty-
three years old; it was edifying and
gratifying to listen to such aged people.
Remarks were made by sister Sarah Nelson
and Secretary A. M. Frodsham. Sister J.
S.Richards then appointed a meeting for
the young ladies on the following Thursday
at 4 o’clock p. m. After which, refresh-
ments were partaken of; and of about 140 per-
sons who were present, there was none who
did not appear to enjoy the good spirit and
feel satisfied with the way in which the
afternoon was spent.
  Meeting adjourned and was dismissed
with singing, and prayer by sister Belknapp.
  According to appointment a meeting of
the young ladies of Ogden was held on the
8th of May, at which much valuable counsel
and instruction was given by President Mrs.
J. S. Richards and others. Eighty young
ladies were present and all, by a unani-
[new column]
mous vote, expressed themselves pleased
with the meeting. . Another was appointed
for the following Wednesday at half past 4
p. m.
			A. M. Frodsham, Secretary.
				 —
 At the 58th meeting of the Senior and
Junior Co-operative Retrenchment Associa-
tions of this city, held May 24th, 1873, in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, simple
medicines, how to gain health and how to
preserve it were the principal topics treated
upon. Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young made
appropriate remarks; Counselor Mrs. S. M.
Kimball gave an intelligent and highly
edifying address on the above mentioned
subjects and Mrs. Watmough related some
facts proven by experience, etc.  The same
subjects were to be continued at the next
meeting.


LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE.
				   ——
		    ST. GEORGE, UTAH, May 13, 1873.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
    Perhaps you thought “Flora” had faded
out, like a withered rose, or gone to seed
like a dandelion. No such thing; not a bit
of it. But the household pets, both animate
and inanimate, or the children and flower
nursing, after the thousand duties of the
morning are over, leave the maternal head
of the family little time for "pen and ink
sketches." Now you wonder what a woman
can find to busy herself about so much in
this pleasant, sunny clime, where the “shade
of the vine and fig tree" is supposed to yield
a tranquil and safe repose; but my dear
woman, though the fact is here, the idea is
a myth. The vine and fig tree already
furnish a delicious and fragrant shade, to
woo us on to its enjoyment—but—ah that
treacherous word—how often it steps in to
mar our brightest hopes and expectations of
happiness and delight! Just as we step
forward to enter upon the sweet enjoyment,
we remember that the verdant vine and fig
tree, as well as the little ones, must be fed,
and that we have omitted to give them
their moisture in season—yes, and all the
other pets in the parlor garden await their
period of nursing ere their fragrant bloom
droops. So with a hearty pleasure we turn
aside from the coveted ease, and live with
our flowers for an hour; studying and sup-
plying their wants, bringing a pleasure and
giving a rest that makes the hour seem but
a moment. By this time we become so
much interested that we fill the remaining
leisure by a stroll around the flower garden,
where the rose, the lily and the peonia
in wondrous beauty and gorgeous array
hold queenly court amid the thousand lesser
flowers, which, in hues and forms innumer-
able, adorn our little Eden, and are widely
scattered along the terraced walks; where
the musical waterfalls sparkle like diamonds
in the sunlight.
    We often wonder that our sisters do not
more adorn their houses and their gardens
with flowers to gladden the hearts of the
household, yielding a power that enchains
each to the home-hearth, and with an unseen
influence, bringing love and refinement,
kindness, peace and joy to the home circle.
Sisters, let the bloom of flowers surround
you, and you will think less of repose under
the vine and fig tree. Ever thine
							FLORA.


ENGLISH PAPERS say that the Latter-day
Saints in Manchester Conference refused
to believe that President Brigham Young
had resigned, and held that the statement
to that effect was a newspaper slander.
And the Manchester Saints were correct.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

        A GOOD wife, a true woman is a real
heroine and an accomplished actress. She
puts her own grievances out of sight to
drive away with pleasant smiles the clouds
that gather around her husband's gloomy
brow; she pours oil on the troubled waters
of her own soul, that she may sooth his
sorrow; she dashes the teardrop from her
eye that she may remove the cup of bitter-
ness from his lips, while he suspects not
there are sorrows weighing down her
aching heart. She cultivates cheerfulness,
and endeavors to banish despondency, for
she is a true philosopher, and knows that a
gloomy spirit but aggravates the ills of life.
    Perhaps if husbands were more considerate
and good wives better appreciated, happy
homes would be more numerous. But many
a good wife goes down to death and they
raise not a stone, carve not a line to tell of
her many virtues, but as she fades from
earth her self-sacrificing, noble nature fades
also from the memory of the living. She
does not seek her reward in the world's
praises, neither is it to be found there, but
if her duties are rightly and well performed,
her reward will surely come.
    A HOME OF TASTE.—Every good picture
is the best of sermons and lectures. The
sense informs the soul. Whatever you have
have beauty. Let beauty be on the paper on
your walls. It is as easy to choose a paper
suggestive of the lovely in color and form,
as the uncouth. Why should not every
household object be sanctified with this
grateful charm? Each chair, each table,
each tea or chamber-service, and every
object for kitchen or parlor, for the home of
the poor man, artizan or mechanic, I would
have them all worthy of a home of taste.—
"Sydney Smith."
    THE scientific branch of cookery com-
prises the devising of dishes and sauces. The
artistic branch constitutes the art of garnish-
ing, and this plays a most important part in
the outcome of the kitchen, as by means of
it, dishes please the eye before they please
the palate. First impressions go a great
way, and when one sense is captivated by
an agreeable and inviting appearance, the
dish must be bad indeed which fails to stand
the more searching ordeal of taste. Besides,
people who suffer from jaded appetites have
a better chance of eating their dinner when
the dishes which are put before them are
pleasant to the sight.
    ALL green vegetables of the cabbage kind
should be chosen with large, close, firm
hearts; when fresh the leaves are crisp and
brittle; when stale they are lank and droop-
ing.
    PUDDING cloths, however coarse, ought
never to be washed with soap; they should
be dried as quickly as possible, and kept
free from dust, and in a drawer or cupboard
free from smell.
    A GOOD lip-salve, useful for chaps, etc.,
is made of equal parts of almond or olive
oil, and the best white wax: melt the latter
in a clean gallipot, set at the side of the fire,
then add the oil.
    GERMAN FRITTERS.—Cut some slices of
bread half an inch thick, remove the crust,
and soak in milk: beat two eggs, pour them
over the bread, and fry it in butter; strew
powdered sugar over the fritters.
    ITALIAN RICE PUDDING.—A teacup of
rice, the yolks of four eggs, the whites of
three beaten separately, two ounces of
pounded sugar, two ounces of raisins, a
quarter pound of suet chopped very fine,
flavoring of ratafia or vanilla. Put these in-
[new column]
gredients into a mould, boil, and serve
with brandy sauce.
    PARSNIP SOUP.—One pound of sliced
parsnips, two ounces of butter, salt and
cayenne to taste, one quart of stock. Put
the parsnips into the stewpan with the but-
ter, which has previously melted, and
simmer them till quite tender. Then add
nearly a pint of stock, and boil together for
half an hour. Pass all through a fine
strainer, and put to it the remainder of the
stock. Season, boil, and serve immediately.
    A SURE CURE FOR COLD.—New-laid egg,
well-beaten, dessertspoonful of fine oatmeal,
dessertspoonful of moist sugar, a little
powdered ginger, little salt, half an
ounce of fresh butter. All mixed well to-
gether. Pour on  half a pint, or rather more,
of boiling water, gently stirring quickly all
the time to prevent curdling. To be taken
at bedtime until the cold is removed.
    STEWED RED CABBAGE.—One red cab-
bage, a small slice of ham, half an ounce of
fresh butter, one pint of stock or broth, one
gill of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, one
tablespoonful of pounded sugar. Cut the
cabbage into very thin slices, put it into a
stewpan, the ham cut in dice, the butter,
half a pint of stock, and the vinegar: cover
the pan closely, and let it stew. When it is
very tender, add the remainder of the stock,
a seasoning of salt and pepper, and the
pounded sugar: mix all well together, stir
over the fire until all the liquor is dried
away, and serve. Fried sausages are
usually sent to table with this dish; they
should be laid around and on the cabbage,
as a garnish.


LETTER TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			——
    My Dear Sisters: Holy is the work to
which you are called, and blessed is she who
performs it nobly. Blessed be she who adds
even one drop of benevolence and good-will
to the crystal fountain. And blessed be she
whose heart fails not in the cause, and who
withholds not the little she can do, because
she cannot do great things. Think not, be-
cause your time and means are limited, you
can  do nothing to forward the work. If it
be really impossible (which can hardly be
the case,) for you to give either money or
handiwork,  you can, if you will, give a
steadfast faith, a warm enthusiasm, a
cheerful, kindly word, a generous appreci-
ation of and pride in what others accom-
plish and thus help to encourage and
stimulate those who can and will support
the cause.
    If you have no poor in your neighborhood,
(and pray God you have not,) there are hun-
dreds of other objects worthy to receive the
benefit of your labors. First of all is the
comforting of each other. For this purpose,
meet often together and speak to each other;
exchange your ideas; give yours and receive
others, thus blessing and being blessed. If you
should not absolutely learn anything new,
you may have your mind refreshed concern-
ing something old which you would not
like to forget; or some word you hear may
set in motion a train of new and profitable
reflections.
    Be not afraid of the sound of your own
voices; if your diffidence drive ideas from
your mind the first time you rise, promise
yourself you will have your nerves and
thoughts under better control another time,
and do not put that other time off too long.
If you think others are older and wiser than
you, so be it; but the one truth you may be
able to express is just as true as any one of
the ten another may set forth, and should
not be concealed because it is but one.
Love and uphold each other; strengthen
[new column]
each other's faith and remembrance; and
both by precept and example help to elevate
the moral standard of your community.
    Woman's mission is especially to the
young; and therein, (Oh, could she only
realize it!) she rules the world. The hopes
and aspirations of the women of this genera-
tion, become the constitutional disposition
of the next; so any measure, moral, religious,
political, social or domestic which is uni-
versally desired by mothers, their children
in after years will surely accomplish in spite
of opposition. Then let "us," at least, fix
our desires on those things which are holy
and elevating in their influence. Let us
not harbor any harmful or ignoble thoughts.
Bear with each other's failings and weak-
nesses; build up each other's reputation
and strengthen each other's hands. Let
not a whisper of jealousy enter your hearts
or pass your lips. If some one advances
more good suggestions than you can, envy
not her talents but diligently improve your
own. If one occupying a superior position
frowns down your suggestions, murmur
not; if she adopt them for her own, leaving
you unknown in the matter, let it rest be-
tween her and her conscience; and feel
cause for grateful pleasure in the fact that
the plan was a good one, no matter where
originated. If you do not receive  your
dues of appreciation personally for the good
you do, remember any good accomplished
by woman in general reflects credit on each
individual woman; and in this important
fact find abundant reward.
    Happily few are so poor that, if they love
the cause, they cannot contribute a little to
the funds; and it is by the union of many
littles that great things are achieved. Sup-
pose each member of a society should give
monthly a small stated sum into the
treasury; say fifty cents, twenty-five cents,
or even ten cents, it would be a very light
burden individually, if given with a grate-
ful heart, and it would accumulate surpris-ingly. Very soon, a few choice volumes
could be laid on the shelves for the use of
the sisterhood, and much valuable instruc-
tion be gained by appointing one to read
aloud while others sew. A sewing or
knitting machine would add much to your
resources; and I think you are the proper
persons to keep burial clothes on hand to be
had at an hour's warning.
    Who knows but you might be able to give
a handsome present to the Temple or emi-
grating funds, or other public benefactions
which are dear to your hearts? And how
nice it would be to build and furnish for
yourselves large commodious rooms in which
to hold your working meetings, your prayer
meetings and your business meetings; or to
assemble your daughters for instruction in
the ways you love to have them walk in.
No one can venture to foretell half the good
a regular though small income might enable
you to accomplish.
    It is worthy of consideration, sisters, and
I beg you will not hastily decide that you
cannot afford it, for you do afford many a
thing less desirable. Say you will afford it
for the sake of God and womanhood; and
then leave off the ruffles from Mary's dress
and the braid from Johnny's jacket, and thus
you not only save a little money but a little
time, a little strength, a little patience also;
and trust me, you will soon feel well paid.
    In conclusion, bear in mind that any
organization requires time to grow mature
by experience; so be not discouraged if you
make some mistakes. Through prayer and
diligence keep the Spirit of God, and all your
undertakings will be prospered. That such
may be our happy lot is the prayer of your
humble sister,				L. L. D.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
   Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
   Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1, 1873.


SPLINTERS.
			       —
  Whitelaw Reid denies his intention to
marry Anna Dickinson......The editress of
“Hearth and Home,” Mrs. Mary Dodge, is
going abroad for her health......Kate Stan-
ton is lecturing on the “Loves of Great
Men.”......The minister of the interior of
France and the minister of public instruc-
tion have tendered their resignations be-
cause they cannot serve in the same cabinet.
......A young man in New York lately killed
three bears with a nail hatchet......Japan
shows a growing interest in the use of the
English language, sixty copies of Webster’s
Unabridged dictionary were lately shipped
for Yokahoma......Professor Agassiz com-
pleted his sixty-sixth year on the 28th of
May. he has been in America 27 years.
......It is haying time now in Berryessa
valley......St. Albans, Vermont, has had a
$150,000 fire......A terrible fire in Drum-
mond colliery, near Picton, Nova Scotia,
was lately occasioned by an explosion of gas.
......The total vote of Spain at the last
election was for a constituent Cortes
and numbered 1,250,000......On the same
day recently one murderer was hung at Mt.
Carroll, Illinois, and another in New York.
......Three thousand Bibles are claimed to
be daily distributed by the American Bible
Society......There are 8,403 places in New
York City where liquor is sold......The Pit
River Indians are trying to bring about a
war with the white settlers there, though
their regular chief is for peace......Boss
Tweed, it is reported, pleads “not guilty”
on fifteen indictments for fraud......Vien-
nese Commissioner, General Van Buren,
who has been accused of fraudulency writes
to President Grant exculpating himself and
reprobating Minister Jay......The sister of
the last named minister was lately married.
......The New York “Herald” pays Kate
Field $2,000 yearly for writing......The seal
of condemnation has been set on dueling in
Richmond, Va., by a coroner’s jury......
Great failures are announced in Vienna and
a money panic prevails there to a large
extent......A much admired statue of the
Ex-Queen of Naples has been finished by
Miss Hosmer......Atchison, Kansas, is re-
ported to be weeping over the strength of
its new onions......Cincinnati sold and drank
35,000 barrels of beer during the month of
April......Mrs. Arthur Arnold, wife of the
editor of the London “Echo,” is translating
Senor Castelar’s work on Rome into English.
Emigrants in large numbers are moving
from Iowa to Kansas......Italy has seven-
teen universities attended by 4,204 students.
......One million dollars for school purposes
has been appropriated by the Illinois Legis-
lature......Yale College as a petrified Indian,
discovered and dug up last Summer on the
bluffs of the North Platt......one hundred
thousand valuable specimens in mineralogy,
botany and natural history, have been col-
lected by Professor Agassiz, and party......
Tea is proposed as a substitute for brandy
in the Russian army they will, doubtless,
learn in time that pure water, undefiled
by either is the most wholesome beverage.
......Mules are exempted by the Georgia
Society for the prevention of cruelty to
animals....One of the earliest and best
woman preachers, Olympia Brown, was
lately married at Providence. R. I.......
From all parts of the country come good
reports of the appearance of the wheat crops
this season......A man in Minnesota was
found dead with his head in a kettle of
water the other morning......A writer from
San Diego says positively the people there
live on climate; it would be a nice thing to
have such a climate broadly extended......
[new column]
“Good Gracious” is the latest novel name
for a heroine......Sumner County, Kansas,
will plant one thousand acres of cotton this
year......Philadelphia ladies are petitioning
for female inspectors of woman prisoners......
The 6th ult. was the 24th anniversary of
the first combined effort made to establish
woman’s rights equal with those of man, in
this country......The expense of the Euro-
pean tour of the Shah of Persia is estimated
at L5,000,000......The daughter of Ben Hol-
laday, Countess Pourtales, while on her way
from San Francisco, died in a Pullman car
on the 16th ult......Dental surgery has been
successfully adopted as a profession by
women in New York......Three wives of the
Shah of Persia travel with him......The 16th
of May this year, was celebrated by the
colored people of New York as the anniver-
sary of the passage of the Civil Rights bill.
A Pennsylvania hen has hatched a chicken
with four legs and four wings, but only one
head......Elizabeth Cady Stanton wants
women to let their children go without bibs,
their husband’s shirts without buttons and
their homes without care, until the men
“give in and let the women vote.”......The
Pennsylvania Legislature prohibits the sale
of oysters during the Summer months......
An educational periodical says there is a
greater and better amount of rational teach-
ing done by the female teachers in Boston
primary schools than by the professors of
Harvard College


VOLUME TWO.
					  ——
    The EXPONENT to-day enters its second year.
While its success has exceeded the expecetations
entertained when its publication was com-
menced, it has not been such as to yet justify
certain improvements which we hope at an
early day to introduce. The question of en-
largement, or of issuing weekly instead of
bi-weekly, has been considered, but it requires
even a larger subscription list than we yet
have to warrant such a step. We have not
sought to make the EXPONENT an advertising
medium, although advertisements are the great
source of income for most journals; the desire
being to devote the space to matter of greater
importance to our readers. And while the
business was indeed new to us a year ago, we
have received kind and freely tendered assist-
ance, which has been much appreciated, and
have gained experience during the year, that
will aid us in future editorial labors. It is not
to be supposed that in the limited space at
our command there could be given all the
variety of topics and reading matter which a
larger journal contains; but our efforts have
been directed towards imparting as much and
varied information as possible, on topics of
interest to women generally. The many
cheering letters continually received from all
parts of the Territory, and from other parts of
the world, have been encouraging, and have
given assurance that those efforts have not
been altogether unsuccessful.
    In commencing the second year of the EXPO-


NENT we earnestly desire a continuation of the
aid so cheerfully tendered in the past; contri-
butions on such topics of interest as our lady
correspondents may feel led to write upon;
reports, as before, of the works and progress of
the many Relief Societies of the Territory,
which, to our mind, has been one of the most
interesting features of the last volume; and such
other assistance as a desire to foster and extend
the influence of the journal for good may
suggest. And we shall endeavor in diligence,
in faithfulness, and with humble reliance on
the Spirit of the Almighty, to so conduct it,
and fill its pages, that it may be and continue
to be truly the exponent of the women of Utah
and become a necessity in every household
where right and truth are the governing prin-
ciples.


﻿HINTS ON HOME LIFE.
	
	It is never wise to make any sudden change
in modes of living. If one extreme has been
followed, in correcting the mistakes modera-
tion should be studied, and great care be taken
to avoid the very frequent error straightway
adopting the opposite extreme, which, in many
cases, may prove to be as bad, or worse than
the former. For instance, if a person has fol-
lowed the practice of bathing in warm or tepid
water, and no oftener than once a week, it
would not be wisdom to begin at once taking
daily baths in cold water, although it is now
generally conceded that the latter form of
bathing is a most healthy one.
	Homes where love and cheerfulness abound,
are the homes of industry and frugality. There
may be a seeming ecstacy in luxury accom-
panied with leisure and indolence; but the true
joys of home-life exist in the care and pains
taken by all the members of a family, and the
labors performed by each, in the creation of
sunshine and happiness.
	It should not be considered burdensome and
trying to perform any domestic duty, or make
any sacrifice which reason demands, to promote
the welfare and satisfaction of any or all por-
tions of the household. Children are very apt
to dislike work, and to complain of the tasks
required of them, even though they are light
and trifling. This is not because employment
of head and hands does not accord with the
laws of nature. Infants prove by their ever
busy, restless movements in their wakeful
moments, that action is an essential of ani-
mated being; and needs only to be properly
governed and trained that it may move in the
channel of usefulness. Parents often give their
children incorrect ideas concerning the use of
this all important power without intending to
do so. While verbally seeking to instill into
the youthful mind the divine principle
that "there is no excellence without labor,"
they so far forget themselves as to utter com-
plaints in the presence of their children, of
their own hard fare; and by whining over the
arduous labors they have to perform, the exer-
tions they are obliged to make, and the weari-
some life assigned them, they lead the little
people to think that work is merely a drag
which should be kept off if possible.
	If a mother gives vent to cheerless and disturbed
feelings about her duties, the work which she
feels unable to do, instead of doing what she
can with pleasure and fortitude, making fore-
thought and prudence do their great part in
assisting, being never idle, yet uncomplaining
over what she cannot accomplish, her little
daughters will grow to believe that the portion
of work allotted to them is too much, and that
they are justified in finding fault. Thus the
whole household gets into confusion, and lack


of system renders domestic duties tedious and
troublesome. But the opposite course being
taken by the mother—the superintendent and
manager of the whole—will ensure general
satisfaction and pleasure in all the rounds of
domestic life. Let parents show that they de-
light, as they should do, in the necessary duties
which they perform and the same spirit will be
diffused through the whole family circle and
life’s labors will be accomplished in blissful
harmony, while peace and prosperity and joy
will be gathered as the golden grain and deli-
cious fruits.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE "WOMAN QUESTION."

	Perhaps no agitation looking, to the accom-
plishment of a great result ever progressed so
rapidly in the time, or at the same stage had
brighter prospects of success, than that which
seeks to secure for women the right to enjoy
and exercise the elective franchise, and the
right to earn her living by any means of in-
dustry open to man for which she has capacity.
In some of the States of this Republic—notably
Massachusetts—where high-sounding promises
had been made, the agitation has appeared to
be retrograding instead of advancing; yet while
this has been the case in one or two places, the
progress in other parts of the world has been
rapid and marked.  From Turkey comes in-
formation that a great innovation has been made
on venerable custom, and that even ladies of
higest rank are proposing to discard the great
vails which have been used for long centuries
to cover woman’s features, so that no man’s
gaze might rest upon them unless that of the
husband. This would be as much of a step in
advance there as for the women of the United
States to be placed in possession of the elective
franchise.  In England, where there is the ex-
ample of a woman for chief ruler of that mighty
power, the advance towards woman suffrage
has equalled, if not surpassed, the warmest
expectations of those engaged in the agitation.
A measure introduced in the House of Com-
mons, by Mr. Jacob Bright, to extend the
suffrage to women, was lately defeated, yet it
is only a few years ago since the proposition of
such a measure in the British Parliament
would have been sneered down, and been met
with nothing stronger than ridicule and con-
tempt. The fact that it can now be introduced
and calmly discussed shows an unexpected
change of sentiment that indicates success at a
not very remote day. And throughout Eng-
land, at vestry meetings and pa ochial elections,
the right of tax-paying women to speak and
vote is recognized. Switzerland is breaking
down the barriers which prohibited women
from obtaining education at her leading sem-
inaries.  While, under the protecting care of
the Crown Princess of Germany, Queen Vic-
toria’s daughter, woman’s advancement in
many ways is being widely encouraged and
forwarded. In the United States the agitation
has been seriously injured by the extreme
views urged by certain advocates of woman’s
rights views that, if widely entertained and
practised, would uproot society, bring social
chaos, and introduce another cycle of “dark
ages.” Every argument which aims at divid-
ing the interests of the sexes, is a blow to
human progress, weak or powerful as the case
may be.  And while woman should have and
enjoy every right which her Creator has de-
signed for her. She never can form nor have a
world of her own, where “horrid man” will
not be found. The “Woman Question” is the
question of both man and woman and “wo-
man’s rights” should as deeply interest men as
women. Woman is the mother of the world,
[new column]
and her interests can no more be separated from
those of man, than could the world exist with
only one sex. It is to be hoped that this fact
will have full weight in the future agitation of
the “Woman Question” and if it has, and the
extreme and revolutionary theories of a few
are discarded, it will be but a few years until
the desired political right, and every other
legitimate one associated with it, will be en-
joyed by women throughout the United States;
which should be in advance of Britain and
not behind it in such a matter of human pro-
gress.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				 —
 Two more of those interesting letters from
Miss Eliza R. Snow will be found in the
present number of the EXPONENT.
    THE PALESTINE Party entirely missed the
late Winter of ’72-3, their continuous route
bringing them to each point which they visited
just as merry Spring approached.  Mr. Little
says he has no recollection of having seen a
particle of ice since the close of the previous
Winter.
   FOURTEEN DAYS of almost constant rain is
something so remarkable in the history of
Utah, since its settlement, that it is question-
able if any previous year has witnessed it.
Yet that is something like what we have had
during the month of May, in the present year;
and it has been a climatic phenomenon worth
remembering.
   THE LATEST news received from those of the
Palestine party now in Europe was in a short
telegram which appeared in the daily papers
last week, stating that President George A.
Smith had been present at a conference of the
Saints held in London, on the Sunday pre-
vious, May 25th.  Elder F. Little and Miss
Claire Little, of the party, returned home since
the last number of the EXPONENT was issued
arriving on the 21st ult. in good health, and
accompanied from Europe by Mrs. Little who
had crossed the Atlantic to meet them.
    TO-DAY, the seventy-third birthday of Presi-
dent Brigham Young, finds that honored
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, still active and energetic in
the cause of Truth, for which he has labored so
exclusively for more than forty years.  For
one of his age, his health is very excellent; he is
still able to speak in his natural, clear and
impressive voice to the entire satisfaction of
large congregations; and he still, continually
and most deservedly, enjoys the sincere faith
and confidence of the people to whom he has
long since fully proven himself a trust-worthy
friend, servant and counselor.
   REPORTS FROM Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Secre-
tary of the Relief Society of Ogden, shows that
the young ladies of that city have been organ-
ized into an association, and hold meetings
Semi-monthly, for the purpose of assisting the
Relief Society in its charitable labors, and also
to gain wisdom from instructions pertaining to
the Gospel of Christ and all useful branches of
practical education.  Seventy members have
already been admitted to this Society of young
ladies. We wish them all success, and grate-
fully acknowledge a special and very cordial
invitation from them to attend their next
meeting, to be held in the new city hall,
Ogden, on Thursday, 5th inst., at 4 o’clock in
the afternoon.


A NOVEL by the Princess Mathilde Bona-
parte, entitled "La Dame a la Rubine," will
shortly be published. This novel, it is said,
was laid before M. Prosper Merimee, some
time before his decease, and was corrected
by him.


WHAT NOT.
			       ——
    THE figure 9 is said to be like a pea-
cock, because it is  0 without its tail.
    A TALL and beautiful lady is described as
"lengthened sweetness long drawn out."
    WHEN a girl falls in love with an unlucky
Irishman, her heart always goes pity-Pat.
    THE gentleman who lately took the fresh
air in the Central Park is requested to re-
store it.
    THE highest office within the gift of the
people is the weather signal station on
Pike's Peak.
    "I'm going to draw this beau into a
knot," as the lady said when standing at
the Hymeneal altar.
    A TOURIST who was asked in what part
of Switzerland he felt the heat most, replied
"When I was going to Berne."
    NEXT to a new bonnet, a black moustache
has been known to do the most violence to
harmony among young ladies.
    IT is said that the finest High School
building in the United States is at Omaha,
Nebraska. Cost, $250,000.
    A SUCCESSFUL female barber in Phila-
delphia shows what woman may do to
"razor" self to independence.
    ONE Missouri editor says of another that
"his ears would do for awnings for a ten-
story wholesale hog-packing establishment."
    A YALE College student said he had
"rather be boss pancake baker in Vassar
College, than to have Professor Tyndall's
head on his shoulders."
    THE saloon-keepers of Big Rapids re-
solved to close their saloons and kill their
town if the council cidn't reduce their
license from $500 to $300. The council
didn't.
    COMPOSITORS often put in queer things
"to fill out a column." Here is the latest:
"Does not a young mother's heart leap 4th
with joy when she beholds her darling
babe's 1st 2th.
    "You had better ask for manners than
money," said a finely dressed gentleman to
a beggar who asked for alms. "I asked
you for what I thought you had the most
of," was the reply.
    A 'FRISCO man runs a partnership busi-
ness alone, being both pound-master and
sausage dealer. He killed 221 dogs in
April, and  people wonder why they got
their best links so late in the spring.
    WHITELAW Reid, editor of the New
York Tribune, gets a salary of $10,000 per
year. Jennings has $10,000 on the Times;
Croly has $5,000 on the World; Hudson had
$20,000 on the Herald, and was retired on
a pension of $10,000.
    AN unimaginative individual on visiting
the Falls of Niagara was greatly perplexed
at the astonishment expressed by his com-
panions, and one of them exclaiming to him,
"Is it not a most wonderful fall?" replied,
"Wonderful! no; I see nothing wonderful
in it. Why, what's to hinder the water
from falling?"
    A SCHOOL-boy being requested to write a
composition upon the subject of "Pins,"
produced the following: "Pins are very
useful. They have saved the lives of a
great many women and children—in fact,
whole families." "How so?" asked the
puzzled teacher; and the boy replied, "Why,
by not swallowing them." This matches
the story of the other boy who defined salt
as "the stuff that makes potatoes taste bad
when you don't put on any."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE WORLD.
	
		BY WILLIAM ROSS WALLACE.

	Blessing on the hand of Woman!
	    Angels guard its strength and grace!
	In the palace, cottage, hovel,
	    O, no matter where the place!
	Would that never storms assailed it;
	    Rainbows ever gently curled;
	For the hand that rocks the cradle
	    Is the hand that rocks the world.

	Infancy's the tender fountain;
	    Power may with Beauty flow;
	Mothers float to guide the streamlets;
	    From them souls unresting grow,
	Grow on for the good or evil,
	    Sunshine streamed or darkness hurled;
	For the hand that rocks the cradle
 	    Is the hand that rocks the world.

	Woman, how divine your mission
	    Here upon your natal sod!
	Keep, O keep the young heart open
	  Always to the breath of God!
	All true trophies of the ages
	    Are from Mother Love impearl'd;
	For the hand that rocks the cradle
	    Is the hand that rocks the world.

	Blessings on the hand of Woman!
	    Fathers, sons, and daughters cry,
	And the sacred song is mingled
	    With the worship of the sky.
	Mingled where no tempest darkens,
	    Rainbows ever more are hurled;
	For the hand that rocks the cradle
	    Is the hand that rocks the world.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

				Constantinople, Turkey, 
						April 8th, 1878. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	The city of Damascus has a venerable
appearance—it is very shabbily built, and
whatever taste may be internally displayed,
its private buildings exhibit none on their
exterior. We visited what had the reputa-
tion of being the best apartments in the
place—just fitted up for the reception of the
German Prince, whose arrival was hourly
expected. The reception room was a cush-
ioned siesta, open in front and facing a
square, or open court in which was a large
fountain. From this we were conducted
into a large, square room, which, strange to
[-]ay, was well lighted with glass; the front
part was floored with varigated marble, on
which stood a white marble fountain basin,
four feet in diameter, into which the water
was gently flowing—the back part of the
room was raised some six inches above the
front, carpeted, and amply supplied with
lounges, sofas, etc., all in a veritable Eastern
style, and exceedingly neat. This same
young Prince of Weimar, and suite, have
been several times on board steamers with
us—we saw them in Jaffa and Jerusalem,
where, as well as in Damascus, they were
received with a display of public honors.
	On the morning of March 19th, we left the
old city of Scriptural celebrity—the scene
of many former striking incidents; particu-
larly that of the miraculous conversion of
Paul, and having walked on the "Street
called Straight;" (which judging from the
gate leading into it, was much broader
formerly than now,)—with its one hundred
and fifty thousand inhabitants, without
shedding any tears of regret. Now, instead
instead of narrow trails, we travel on the
broad, smooth “Diligence road,” through a
narrow gorge between high rocky ridges,
overlooking narrow strips of fertility along
the beautiful Abano river, which skirts the
almost perpendicular bluffs for several miles,
and at night, camp at a village of hovel-
like dwellings, called Dimas. The next
morning, while waiting the adjustment of
tents, baggage, etc. on the pack mules, we
were much interested in seeing the numer-
ous goat-herds with their large flocks of 
[next column]
goats, starting out towards the mountains
which surrounded us on all sides; and, par-
ticularly to our amusement, numbers of
these goats issued from the doors of the
houses, to which there was but one opening.
As the goats came through the doorway,
they were intermingled with men, women
and children. Our encampment was on a
ridge of the Anti Lebanon range.
	The next day we traveled over an exten-
sive valley lying between the two ranges,
which as we approached the great range was
highly cultivated, and crowned with luxuri-
ant fields of grain; with houses representing
civilization if not refinement. Leaving this
delightful landscape scenery we ascended
a steep ridge, where we camped for the
night, in sight of lofty peaks of the cele-
brated "Mountain of Lebanon," covered
with snow; and felt the atmosphere cooled
by its frosty breath. The next morning,
as we ascended the highest elevation, we
found the cold intense—banks of snow, from
time to time, lying on the road side, much
to the annoyance of our animals—they
seemed to be making its acquaintance for
the first time.
	At several points on this Lebanon range,
the view is beautiful beyond description—
not only beautiful—it is grand and magnifi-
cent, combining a portion of sublimity, that,
while you are struck with admiration, a
feeling of awe instinctively entwines around
your imagination. I was so captivated with
the wild, bold, majestic scenery of nature,
exhibited in an interminable variety of
forms, before, behind, all around me, that
many times I stopped my horse, that I
might feast my eyes on the surrounding
beauties of nature—the almost uncultivated
“Glory of Lebanon.” Some of the mountain
slopes presented an appearance of having
been terraced long ago, and in many places
the vine is seen in rows, apparently strug-
gling against the wash of storm and the
waste of years.
	The place where, for the last time we
dismounted for lunch, I shall not readily
forget. It was on a high elevation over-
looking a cluster of ridges, which rise in
proud loftiness, over deep ravines, that,
viewed from our standpoint, produced a
sense of giddiness, from their immense
depth. Although the sides of their emi-
nences are very steep, they are terraced,
and from base to summit, highly cultivated,
and covered with many varieties of vegeta-
tion; and exhibit in a striking illustration,
the effect of the skilful power of Art, in
softening, and in transforming the rough
and wild condition of Nature. To complete
this strange, picturesque scene, the broad,
smooth road, paved with white limestone,
commences a descent directly from our lunch-
ing place, and, instead of crossing the
ravines, and running in a straight line, it
winds and zigzags around, low down at the
foot of these eminences—its whitness form-
ing a marked contrast to the green verdure
of vegetation—the luxurient foliage of
shrubbery and shade trees, and the gay
colors of the flowers, already in full bloom.
	After leaving this point, which is about
ten miles from Beyrout, the road runs in
a straight direction, and, for a long distance,
is lined on both sides with fields of mulberry.
These trees have an old appearance—
the trunks being very large, and the
branches young and small from constant
pruning. The manufacture of silk is quite
a business in Beyrout, this place having
superseded Damascus, when formerly it was
carried on extensively.
	Before our arrival in Beyrout, our Drago-
man, having special business in the city,
left us in charge of a Turk who could not
[next column]
speak English, and understood it but little;
and as we preceded our pack mules with
tents, etc., he took us to a house where we
were received with tokens of kindness—
everything was done that hospitality need
suggest—we were seated in the best room
on cushioned seats—were served to tiny
cups of coffee—glasses of lemonade, etc.—
shown into their weaving establishment
with many specimens of silk manufacture—
all this time without understanding what
prompted these expressions of friendship,
for we could not comprehend a word of each
other’s language. After some time Antonio,
our Dragoman came and relieved our
curiosity, by informing us that the people of
the house were relatives of the man who
introduced us to them. Presently our tents
were pitched and we left the hospitable roof,
and invited the lady of the house with two
or three others to accompany us, which they
did. The distance was short, but others
seeing these, joined in, and then others
joined them, and by the time our tents were
reached, we had a large procession. At
this time there was a public demonstration
in favor of the young German Prince, just
entering the city, but we concluded that
ourselves drew the most attention. The
next forenoon we were visited by multitudes;
some of the ladies urging Miss Little and
myself, we accompanied them to their
homes which we found, though simple in
style, very neat.
	In the afternoon—the 22nd of March, we
mounted horses for the last time—bade adieu
to tent life, and rode to the hotel, and on
the 25th went on board the steamer Mars,
of the Austrian Lloyd line, en route for
Constantinople.
							Eliza R. Snow.

			Munich, Bavaria, April 24, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	Constantinople, with its many waters
and varigated land scenery—combining
beauty and commercial advantages, sur-
passes all other locations I have ever
seen. From an outside view, as we
beheld it from the steamer's upper deck,
before, and at sunrise, one cloudless morn-
ing, when the atmosphere was clear of
smoke, this great Capital of Turkey is mag-
nificently beautiful. But, like most Eastern
cities, in consequence of narrow, crooked,
filthy streets, it will not bear an intimate
acquaintance. It contains many fine edi-
fices, of which its many minaretted mosques,
are considered its greatest ornament; and
to a Saint of God, who understands that He
accepts no church, mosque or temple, unless
built by His special direction, these are of
little or no interest, only, as a matter of
curiosity. The tall, graceful, dark-green
cyprus trees, of which there are great num-
bers, especially in the burial grounds of
Constantinople, add much to the picturesque
scenery, and are higly valued as being pro-
ductive of health, by absorbing malarious
effluvia from the atmosphere.
	I was interested, and much amused with
the novelty of the bazars—so very unlik
anything I had seen. In the first place,
you enter a narrow street or defile, with
rows of small shops with open fronts, ranged
along on each side, with articles for sale on
shelves at the back and sides, and strung up
in front—a vendor standing in the center,
ready to wait on you. After going a short
distance, other alleys or lanes lead off in
various directions—then others branch out
from them, and so on, till without a pilot,
you may be entirely lost in a forest of bazars,
and your sight bewildered with their daz-
zling displays.


﻿The exterior of the Grand Sultan’s Palace
is a rare specimen of taste, chaste beauty
and elegance.
	On the 5th of April, again on the upper
deck of the steamer Mars, I took a farewell
view of the Turkish Capital, while its hills
and dells, minarets, domes, towers and masts
faded in the distance, as well as that im-
mense structure on the coast of Asia Minor,
celebrated as the place where Florence
Nightingale bestowed her womanly and
heroic aid in behalf of the sick, wounded and
dying.
	Near the shore of the beautiful Island of
Syra, we changed steamers, and on the
morning of the 7th, landed at the Piraeus—
took carriage—rode five miles, which brought
us to the city of Athens. I am not an
enthusiastic admirer of ruins, and time-
worn relics of what is dead and obsolete,
especially when they have no possible bear-
ing on present progress, yet, in spite of my
positive predilections, my attention was
strongly riveted to some of the stupendous
remains of the ancient splendor and mag-
nificence of a city that figured so much in
the classics, and political history of Greece.
	But, as I am not a professional archoeolo-
gist, I shall leave the description to others.
While visiting the Acropolis, on the lofty
height of the plateau, a natural enormous
rock foundation of the original Athens, we
had a charming view of the present.
	Anciently, the Areophagus or “Mar’s
Hill,” was a judgment seat, where the most
important civil and ecclesiastic cases were
tried and sentences pronounced. On this
hill the Apostle Paul stood and addressed
the people. I almost fancied him occupy-
ing that strikingly peculiar position—in
close proximity to, and almost surrounded
by temples of the greatest possible brilliancy,
dedicated to, and containing vast numbers
of those venerated deities, the very gods
which he repudiated in the audience of
their worshipers; boldly telling his idola-
trous hearers that “God dwelleth not in
temples made with hands”—“we ought not
to think that the Godhead is like unto gold,
or silver, or stone, graven by art and man’s
device,” etc.
	We were invited to tea at the residence of
the American Minister, Mr. Francis and
lady, where also we met Mr. Goodenough,
American Consul General to Constantinople,
and spent a couple of hours very sociably and
agreeably. We saw George First, King of
Greece, on the sidewalk, in plain citizen
costume—were told that he is doing all in
his power to better the condition of the
people. His wife, Olga, is niece of the
Czar, Alexander II, of Russia, thus uniting
Danish and Russian element.
	We left Athens on the 12th—arrived by
train at Trieste, Austria, the 17th; at Verona,
Italy, the 19th, and on the 21st at Munich,
Bavaria.
	Of all sight-seeing and entertainments,
nothing has pleased us more, and interested
us so much as the packages of letters and
papers which we met at Constantinople and
Trieste, from Utah, informing us of “home,
sweet home.”
							Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿Who shall succeed Salmon P. Chase,
as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States? Bulwer makes his “Riche-
lieu” say “The mate for beauty should be
a man and not a money chest;" so the choice
for Chief Justice of the United States, should
be a jurist, not a politician; and a jurist of
the highest capability and honor, calm, con-
servative, of sound judgment, swayed ever
bya consciousness of the vast responsibilities
placed upon him.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
			Harrisville, Weber Co., Utah,
							May 11th, 1873.
Dear Editor:—
	I write feeling a lively interest in your
valuable paper, and knowing it is the privi-
lege and duty of all lovers of Zion’s cause,
to throw in their mites, to assist in bringing
to light the sacred truth, and making honor-
able mention of the kind dealings of God.
I perceive the set time to favor Zion has
come; when woman, the weaker vessel, can
do much to advance the cause of truth on
the earth, although wicked men are seeking
to take from her her natural rights, and
Satan stirreth up their hearts to do her
injustice. We, in Utah, have, and still
shall have the right to say who shall be our
leaders, lawgivers, and representatives; and,
if I may be allowed the remark, husbands
to lead us back into the presence of our
Father and our God. And now while we
have thousands of ways to make ourselves
useful in our families, and in all the great
and small duties of life; relieving the poor
by large or small donations; visiting the
sick; administering words of comfort and
consolation—we have also the great and in-
estimable privilege of worshiping God
according to the dictates of our own con-
science, believing in polygamy as the
patriarchal order of marriage, through which,
(when rightly entered into, and lived in,)
we enjoy the great blessings of the ancient
patriarchs and prophets with their families.
Oh! happy daughters of Zion. Oh! happy
Saints of God! do we realize the great and
glorious privileges we enjoy? Never was
woman blest with greater freedom. Still
we are called the “down-trodden women of
Utah!” We ignore the idea, and truthfully
attest that we have more privileges than
any other women on the face of the earth.
	Our Relief Society here is under the
guidance of worthy and competent sisters
whose whole aim seems to be to advance and
promote the cause of God on the earth.
								E. S.

	Now that there is such ample room open-
ed for our present, as well as future, profit
and usefulness, if we do not accept the
chances given us we can no more complain
for that complete advantage that the world
has so long withheld from woman. What
should be woman’s aim? Some ladies use
the plea, that the requirement of those call-
ings (which have been heretofore man’s ex-
clusive privilege) will strip them of their
delicacy, refinement, and of their feminine
attractiveness. Genuine worth need not
fear discovery. If a lady has a knack at
numbers, and would make an excellent book
keeper, where is the harm? If her abilities
fit her for a position behind the counter, let
her skill be tried; or if blessed with sufficient
natural talent to become an artist, her
endowments must not be hid under a bushel.
Girls, you who are so pale, and wan, and
pretty (!) do not scoff at this; your own
welfare and that of your posterity depends
in some measure upon woman’s cultivation
and aggrandizement. Listless purposes and
languid exertions will never exalt one.
Work with a will and a noble determination
to do the world some good. The excuse is
offered that being fitted for and filling those
mentioned places, husbands and children are
neglected by wives and mothers. The
question immediately presents itself, Does
not woman neglect her family for dress,
visiting, and amusements? But we do by
no means intend to insinuate that there are
duties belonging to motherssuperior to the
care of their children. How many are not
blessed with children? How many poor
girls without homes? How often do we
hear the phrase, a “strong minded woman,”
sneeringly uttered? Shall we devote our
admiration to weak minded women? Is
the feeble proselyte to society to be prefer-
red to the girl who is bent on nobly fashion-
ing the character God gave her, and gaining
a profession that will fill her purse as well
as her mind? Woman’s true nature is not
thoroughly alert until aroused by the wish
to do something that is independent. Do
not mistake my meaning. There is a vast
difference between a silly, conceited and
arrogant independence, and the honorable
desire to be helpful and useful. May the
ladies of our Territory improve the rich
advantages laid before them! Persever-
ance will complete success, and it has been
truthfully said, “what has already been done
may be done again.” In many ages of the
world women, with voice and hand, have
acquired distinction and honor for the noble
and brave efforts they have made. Have
not the daughters of Zion every thing to
encourage them! With an inspired leader
to assist, admonish and counsel, what
triumph of heart and brain may they not
achieve!
								Kent.


﻿We Chronicled, last issue of the Expo-
nent, the death of more than forty persons
by the falling of a bridge over the Rock
River, at Dixon, Illinois, during the celebra-
tion of the ordinance of baptism in the water
below. Now we have to record another of
these oft recurring “accidents,” which oc-
curred on the 22nd ult., during the laying
of the corner stone of a new Roman Catholic
church, in Pennsylvania. A temporary
flooring, on which a multitude had assem-
bled, gave way and precipitated them to the
ground beneath. A great many were in-
jured, but none killed so far as reported.

	The Brave Illinois Girl Who Saved
a Ralway Train from Destruction.—
As a little girl, Lizzie Bourland by name,
who resides at Woodlawn, Ill., on the line
of the St. Louis and Southern Railroad,
was passing down the track yesterday after-
noon on her way to the next station
(Roache’s,) she discovered a lot of brush
upon the track, which she concluded to
remove. Upon lifting a portion of the brush
she discovered a tie across the track. she
endeavored to remove the tie, but being
a child of only thirteen years of age, her
strength was inadequate. Just then, to her
horror she heard the train coming. With
presence of mind far exceeding her years,
she grasped her parasol and signaled the
train to stop, keeping it in violent motion
until she heard the engineer whistling down-
brakes. As the train was only about
one hundred yards distant when the signal
was given, of course the engine struck the
tie, notwithstanding the air-brakes were
put on to the fullest extent, but the speed
was so lessened by the time the obstacle
was struck that no damage was done. The
conductor of the train stopped and took up
the little girl and carried her to her desti-
nation, after thanking her for the timely
warning which, doubtless, saved a number
of lives. The train was a passenger train
bound West, and due in St. Louis at 4:32,
which point it reached in safety, through the
thoughtfulness and presence of mind of
the little girl.—“St. Louis Globe, May 8th.”


﻿Miss Edmonia Lewis, (colored,) our
famous American sculptress in Rome, has
two orders of $50,000  from British
noblemen.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS.

	Civility costs nothing and buys every-
thing.
	Do not meddle with business you know
nothing of. 
	Where manufactures flourish, land and
its products are most valuable.
	Every man complains of his memory,
but no man complains of his judgement.
	Keep good company and let not your
associates have cause to shun or be ashamed
of you.
	Nothing condemns more powerfully the
violence of the wicked than the moderation
of the good.
	It is with our judgements as with our
watches, none go just alike, yet each be-
lieves his own
	The first ingredient in conversation is
truth, the next good sense, the third good
humor, and the fourth wit.
	Carefully, avoid vices which most
resemble virtue; they are a thousand times
the most ensnaring of all vices
	Candor in some people may be compared
to barley-sugar drops in which the acid
preponderates over the sweetness.
	Serenity of mind is nothing worth,
unless it has been earned; a man should be
at once susceptible of passions, and able to
subdue them.
	Nature is very careful to provide against
scarcity. In the moral world it is the
same. Goodness and beauty lie thick
around us, in spite of sin, and sorrow, and
wrong of all kinds.
	Man is like a snowball. Leave him lying
in idleness against the sunny face of pros-
perity, and all the good that is in him melts
like fresh butter in the dog days; but kick
him around, and he gathers strength at
every revolution.
	The foundation of domestic happiness is
faith in the virtue of woman; the founda-
tion of political happiness is confidence in
the integrity of man; the foundation of all
happiness, temporal and eternal, is reliance
on the goodness of God.
	The angels are beautiful because they
are good," and there is no true, enduring
beauty that comes not from goodness shin-
ing through the soul's face and form, as
home-lights gleam out through the night’s
brooding shadows, to tell of all that home
means to the weary and hungry of heart.
	Though sometimes small evils, like in-
visible insects, inflict pain, and a single
hair may stop a vast machine, yet the chief
secret of comfort lies in not suffering trifles
to vex one, and in prudently cultivating an
undergrowth of small pleasures, since
very few great ones, alas! are let on long
leases.
	Too great a desire to please will often
give a person the appearance of being both
deceitful and insipid; while perfect indiffer-
ence to the opinion of others will make one
seem boorish and hateful; but an even,
straightforward, independent course, with
a generous appreciation of the good feelings
of mankind, never fails to win respect, con-
fidence and friendship.


﻿The number of persons run over in the
streets of Paris averages 1135 annually.
	The greatest cataract in the world is the
Falls of Niagara, where the water from the
great upper lakes forms a river three quar-
ters of a mile in width, and then, being
suddenly contracted, plunges over the rocks
in two columns, to the depth of one hundred
and seventy feet each!


TRUE LOVE.

	Never be ashamed of ever having loved any
one. If perchance you have hated, then blush
for it, but not for love. It does not matter
at all whether the person on whom your
affections fixed themselves reciprocated the
sentiment. Where there is no shame in
loving, in itself, the fact of having given
love without reward can bring none with it.
You have only bestowed a gift more price-
less than any jewel can be, upon one who
did not thank you.
	Since there is sorrow to one’s self in it,
it is best to struggle with the heart, and
keep it until it is asked for; but if it goes
forth, despite all effort, there is no need to
feel like a guilty thing, and Iong to hide
from your very self. Providence gave you
that great love, and I believe that somehow
it will mingle with the life it hovers over,
and shed a perfume and lend a sweetness to
it, though it has never been spoken.
	Many a woman's life has shrivelled away
under the weight of "disappointed love,"
merely becaue her shame in it was so  great.
The false sentiment that teaches her to
scorn a natural feeling has worn her beauty
away, and robbed her of all hope in the
presence of the future. I think it would be
better if even a woman dared to say, "I
loved him but he did not love me,” with
the same sweet sadness which, when years
have glided by, she can utter the words, “I
loved him, and he died.”


﻿Miss Van Lew, the postmistress at Rich-
mond, has again run the gauntlet of criticism,
and been confirmed by the Senate. There
was a strong effort on the part of the politi-
cians, who coveted so good a place for them-
selves, to prevent her appointment and
afterward to defeat her in the Senate, but
the President insisted on appointing her on
two grounds, that she gave important
information to our army during the siege of
Richmond, and that she made a good officer.
	Clara Louise Kellogg did a generous
thing at the Continental Hotel in Philadel-
phia, the other night. Having a spare hour,
she invited the hired help about the house,
who could be spared from their duties, to
assemble in the ladies’ dining-room, and
she then played and sang for them a choice
selection of her best pieces, interspersing a
number of Irish ballads and negro minstrel
melodies. The servants enjoyed it, all over,
and Miss Kellogg is sure of good attendance
in her future visits at the Continental.
	Asiatic men verily believe that chaos
would come if women were allowed to go
abroad with uncovered faces; but the ex-
periment has long been tried in Europe and
America without producing any alarming
results. It was thought in old times that
public speaking would be fatal to the useful-
ness and modesty of women, but the
Quakers long ago settled that question.
Their women have always been as free to
preach as their men, and  are pre-eminent
for their personal modesty and household
thrift.


HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.

	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
 nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City,"
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.


FURNISH YOUR HOMES:

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
    At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
    Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

Z. C. M. I. 
		Retail Dry Goods Department.
	To meet the demand of an increasing  business we
have added an essential addition to our
	      R E T A I L  R O O M,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
    This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

			NEW CLUB RATES

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10  copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4	-	 -         -	      -			  	  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 2.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, June 15, 1873.	No. 2


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	English Newspapers are agitating the
necessity of raising their prices—results
doubtful.
	Asiatic cholera rages in Russian
Poland and West Prussia. One of the
plauges.
	Fourth of July fire-works are prohibited
in Boston. Such amusement is no novelty
in that city, and they don’t like the exhibi-
tion nor its results.
	The sea is gradually swallowing up Long
Branch; about 15 feet of the bluff went last
winter. A few seasons more will be likely
to find the inhabitants wading out.
	Reports of large fires with great destruc-
tion of property, hail storms, tornadoes, etc.,
still continue to stand forth, prominent
features in the signs of the times.
	The Woman Suffrage Association of New
England has given a festival and tea party,
which, according to reports, was a grand
success and greatly enjoyed by the partici-
pants.
	Thirty more persons were lately hurried
into eternity, being drowned by the steam-
ship Drummond Castle, of London, going
ashore on Chusan Island, off the east coast
of China, and becoming a total wreck.
	A man in Bullionville, Nevada, is sen-
tenced to 80 days imprisonment for knock-
ing down and brutally beating his aged
mother. Why didn't the court say eight
years, or call the wretch “insane" and
dismiss him?
	A lady asked the question the other day,
why it was that so much was said about
women's always talking; and a good natured
gentleman honestly confessed that it was
because men had the "say," and made it
what they pleased.
	The Daily papers have been detailing ac-
counts of an assassination committed by a nine-
teen year old youth upon his father, in New
York. Domestic troubles, it appears, were
the disagreeable causes of such fatal results,
the family,—Walworth—aristocratic and re-
spectable.
	The question, what to do with Captain
Jack, of the Modocs, seems to be a difficult
one to settle. Though it is certain that
desperation drove him into committing foul
and treacherous murders, there are two
sides to the story, and his accusers may
well pause.
	Subscriptions are being raised in New
York to assist Susan B. Anthony in defend-
ing nerself against the indictmet for voting
at the last general election.  If the women
of the United States had money enough,
they could, doubtless, buy the right to vote,
as readily as other bribes are now offered
and accepted, between the corrupted govern-
ment and a reckless people.
	A touching story is given in the New
York “World” of a late date, concerning
the death of a Mrs. Roderick, caused by a
shot from a pistol in the hand of her son.
She attempted to separate him and another
young man who had repeatedly insulted and
sought a quarrel with him and the fatal
shot was the consequence. Young Roderick,
though exempt from all blame apparently,
is reported almost crazy over the sad affair.
	A Russian community, the Memonites,
are sending a small body to reco[-]moiter in
Monitoba and determine if that country is
suitable for their co-religionists to colonize.
They seek freedom and peace, in the enjoy-
ment of their religion, as thousands have
done before them.
	How any one can discern truth from
error in relation to news items to-day, is
almost invisible to people in general. The
Hong Kong and Shanghai cable is broken
—then it is not broken but the report was a
false one.  Victoria Woodhull is dead—
then she lives, but doesn't know it. An emi-
grant train and regular express train collided
at Como—then it was not a collision or any
thing of the kind. And so it is the world
progresses.
	George Francis Train was acquitted of
the charge of publishing obscene literature
on the ground of insanity; and was then
declared sane, for the second time, by a jury
of his countrymen! Great is the law, as
modern courts interpret and administer it.
He was wanted as a witness in the suit of
the United States government against the
Credit Mobilier, but he was off for Europe
before the summons reached him.   He can
now tell Europeans what he knows about
American Bastiles. 
	By the Liverpool, “Millennial Star,”
President Albert Carrington of the Euro-
pean Missions Editor, we see that the
season's emigration from Europe for Utah
was to commence on June 4th, it being
arranged that the first company should start
on that day. There are many in Utah hav-
ing means to spare who have friends in
Europe desiring emigrating and needing
assistance.  As ye have been blessed, be
liberal and bless those who are now situated
as you once were. There are many here
who were assisted to emigrate by the fund
for that purpose, and who are yet indebted
for the aid then and thus rendered. Pay
that indebtedness and realize the blessing
of meeting a just obligation and of render-
ing worthy assistance at the same time.
Mothers, wives and sisters, keep this before
your sons, husbands and brothers.
	The record of great fires throughout
the United States keeps swelling.  On the
30th ult. over a million dollars worth of
property, in houses and goods, was burned
in Boston, and numerous other large fires
have occurred since; while leading cities are
discussing the efficiency of their depart-
ments. But with all the advance in science
and arts, mankind have not yet found out
the way to overcome “the signs of the
times,” nor secure the immunity from evils
which they naturally seek. Physicians and
panaceas multiply, and so do undertakers
and hospitals, the race becoming more sub-
ject to ills and the penalties of dissipated
lives;  science and skill still accomplish
wonders of engineering triumphs, but dis-
asters destroying precious lives are of such
constant occurrence that one horror is
scarcely by before another is heard of; and
while fire departments have apparently
almost reached perfection in the larger
cities, never, so far as history records, did
the consuming fire devour so frequently so
much of the products of human labor and
skill!
	The present state of portions of the
world, and the reckless, demoniacal spirit by
which men are actuated in some instances
is fearfully depicted in the following brief
paragraph: “In Italy a second Troppmann
has been arrested. A man named Antonio
Evangelista, one evening went to the
house of a friend, a contadino, Antonio
Lucacalche, and asked the loan of five lire.
Lacacalche, said he would give it to him in
Gulaccio, where he was going on the follow-
ing day, and it was arranged that Evange-
lista should accompany him, and accordingly,
at an early hour,  they left the house.
When upon the country  road, Evangelista
turned suddenly upon Lucacalche, and, with
a hatchet, laid open the head of the unsus-
pecting man, and then finished him with a
dagger blow in the throat. Coolly turning
back to the house, he called the wife to
come out, saying that her husband wanted
her. No sooner had she come into the road
than a like fate met her, a hatchet blow
killing her instantly. The son, hearing her
death-cry, ran to her aid, but he fell under
the axe-of the inhuman assassin. An only
daughter, seeing from the window the
fearful sight, successfully barred the door,
and the ruffian, after repeated attempts,
turned away and disappeared.  He was
arrested the following day at Cassino.
	The following may be both important,
interesting and profitable to some young
couples about to emigrate from a state of
single blessedness to that of united felicity.
It is a contemporary who thinks “that a
man about to marry can commit no greater
error than to interfere in any way with
regard to his intended wife’s trousseau. By
so doing he is guilty of an act of extreme
presumption, and he also incurs a pecuniary
responsibility often of a serious, nature. In
a dispute about a bride’s trousseau, Sheriff
Lees, at Airdrie, Scotland, has just issued
an interlocutor, which fully enters into the
law as to the husband’s liability in this
respect. In the case in question the hus-
band was sued by the tradesman who
supplied the outfit, and, as it was clearly
proved that they were supplied on the
defendant's order, the sheriff held him liable
in the amount of the account, £27s. 8s.,
with £3 Is. 11d. costs. The defences stated
were: First—That it was the duty of the
bride's father to provide her wedding outfit;
and, second, that the account should be
reduced or disallowed, as it was extrava-
gant for the position of the defendant’s wife.
The learned sheriff, in a long note, enters
into the law off this point, and finds that
while in ordinary cases the husband would
not be liable, yet when as in this case the
goods were got on his express order, he must
be held to be the responsible party, and can-
not be allowed to complain of extrava-
gance. This seems only fair: for if husbands
have ordered their wife’s trousseaus they
cannot complain if they are subsequently
called upon to pay; but often both husband
and wife a few months after marriage
bitterly regret that a large sum which might
have been usefully expended in paying the
grocer's, butcher's and baker's bills, or in
furnishing their house, has found its way in-
to the milliner's pocket in the purchase of a
vast number of useless articles."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


|For the EXPONENT.
		THANKSGIVING.
			   ——
    O God, how blessed is my lot
    In this remote, secluded spot
     Where pride and envy enter not
       To lead my soul astray;
    No wild excitements rend my soul,
    No passions fierce defy control,
    No [-]itter sorrows o'er me roll
       To cloud by sunny day.

    Not wealth nor poverty abides—
    The one to foster silly pride,
    The other tempt my heart to chide
       Thy wond'rous kindliness,
    Not want nor luxury enthralls—
    The one with misery's piercing calls,
    The other rearing fatal walls
       'Tween me and usefulness.

    Sweet baby eyes look into mine—
    Dear, sunny, loving eyes that shine
    With radiance more than half divine.
       Upon my happy heart;
    And baby laughter, pure and sweet,
    Mingled with sounds of pattering feet,
    A more entrancing measure beat
       Than music's proudest art.

    To teach thy little ones the way
    True wisdom's precepts to obey,
    And walk in honor's stainless way,
       Is holy work to do;
    To feed the hungry in Thy name
    And clothe the naked, wins a claim—
    'Gainst mine own hour of fear and shame—
       To thy compassion too.

    My hands spurn not their daily talk;
    To do it well, I humbly ask—
    I would not that my soul should bask
        In enervating ease;
    For sloth is vile, but action grand;
    A willing heart, a ready hand,
    A mind thy will to understand,
       Dear Lord, I ask for these.

    I thank thee that 'tis granted me,
    No idler in this world to be—
    Thou deignest my desire to see—
       My humble toil to bless.
    May I, dear Lord, be never found
    A useless cumberer of the ground—
    With good works let my life abound
       For this is happiness.
						LU DALTON.
BEAVER, Feb. 9th, 1873.


R. S. REPORTS.
			   —
  Miss Sarah E.  McKnight writes from
Minersville, Beaver County, as follows:—I
see reports from other Societies, in the Expo-
nent, and feel that I have been neglectful
in not sending you a report of our Society
earlier.   However, we are improving as we
hope to continue doing, through the blessings
of the Lord, in whom we trust.  As a
Society and as individuals, we endeavor to
be always on hand to assist the poor, or to
aid in any good undertaking.  The Society
was organized April 5th, 1869, and reorgan-
ized February 6th, 1871, with 68 members.
We have donated towards the building of
the Temple in St. George, and have helped
our Bishop in other public matters.   There
is a surplus remaining in the Treasury at
present.   On the 16th of March, 1873, at a
meeting of the Society, a unanimous vote
was taken to omit the word “Female” from
its name. The Exponent is read with
much interest and we feel that its mission
will result in great good, and pray Heaven
to bless its editor, and all who seek to pro--
mote the cause of Truth. Mrs. Lydia Black-
burn is the President of our Society.
				——
  Smithfield R. S. Report:—Ourannual meet-
ing was held May 12th, at the School-house:
Singing and prayer being offered, President
E. T. Morehead made appropriate remarks
concerning our duties in assisting to gather
the Saints from foreign lands; also the im-
portance of being united in our labors; the
necessity of educating the youth that they
might be qualified to occupy honorable
[new column]
positions in society; the sisters keeping in
mind the admonitions of President Young
in his discourse to the Relief Societies, about
the saving of the paper rags, etc.; spoke
highly in favor of the Woman’s Exponent
and urged the sisters to subscribe and write
for the paper.' Counselor A. Barber spoke
at some length upon the principle of Celes-
tial marriage; she realized that her Heavenly
Father had blessed her in yielding obedience
to that principle; showed forth the duty of
those present to each others as members of
one great family, and exhorted them to be
faithful, for the Lord had been their shield
in the past, and would be in the future if
they would do their part; she hoped
they would be liberal in their contributions
to the P. E. Fund. Counselor M. Ainscough
followed with a short address on the same
subject, said that polygamy was a trial to
the feelings of a great many but in, as, much
as they lived near to the Lord they would
be strengthened, and through obedience to
that revelation would receive an exaltation
in the Kingdom of God.   Spoke in favor of
the Exponent, saying that it was the duty
of the sisters to sustain the paper by sub-
scribing for it.
  The financial report was read showing
that the Society was in a prosperous condi-
tion. The income, for the year ending May
12th, 1873, derived from donations, work
done by the Society, interest on shares in
 the Co-operative store, etc., amounted to
$232:08.  There had been given to the poor,
to the P. E. Fund, schooling and other use-
ful objects $150:35.   President Morehead
made some closing remarks upon the pros-
perity of the Society, encouraging the sisters
 to attend meetings; she was satisfied with
what had been accomplished in the past
year, and hoped they would ever be co-
workers with the brethren in discharging
every duty  incumbent upon them.   Dis-
missed with prayer by E. T. Morehead. 
	Mrs. E.T. Morehead, President.
	Mrs. Adaline Barber, }
	Mrs. Mary Ainscough} Counselors.
	Mrs. J. S. Coleman,, Secretary.
	Mrs. Margaret Story, Treasurer.
			      —
  Midway, May 28th 1873. The Relief
Society of this place was organized April
18th, 1870, but circumstances occurred, by
which it became necessary, on the 19th of
August 1872, for President Alexander to
reorganize the Society, with Mrs. Es-
ther Dabling as President, Mrs. Sarah Alex-
ander first; and Mrs. Mary M. Huber second
Counselors. Mrs. Elilabeth Alexander Sec-
retary and Mrs. Elizabeth Wintch, Treasurer.
And we are very happy to state that from
that time to the present, what few members
we have in our Society are united and feel
determined to do all the good they can.
We have not many destitute in this place,
but to what few there are we have been able
to render some assistance. As other Socie-
ties have done, we also have taken a vote to
omit the word “Female,” which was
unanimous.   We have not much means on
hand at present, but hope the day is not far
distant when we shall be able to assist the
poor of our faith, who are now in distant
lands, to come and dwell with us in our
mountain home.  The Exponent comes a
very welcome guest to us, who wish it pros-
perity.
  Mrs. Elizabeth Alexander, Secretary.
			   ——
     We receive from Payson, Utah County,
the following, written June 1st, 1873:
	On Wednesday, May 28th, we held our
annual meeting. Our Relief Society was
organized in 1868, under the direction of
Bishop Fairbanks; Mrs. Jane Simons Presi.
[new column]
dent, Mrs. Agnes Douglass first and Mrs.
Mary Moore second Counselors, Mrs. Mary
Ann Hardy, Secretary and Mrs. Sarah
Fairbanks Treasurer; each one still retains
her office. We had a good meeting on
Wednesday; $249 had been received during
the past year, and $223:30 had been dis-
bursed. The following named brethren
were present; Harvey Moore, David Fair-
banks, Thomas Daniels, John Loveless, and
Charles Burr; they gave good counsel and
instructions  The sisters felt well, full of
the spirit of their calling; to be one with
their President and her Counselors.  After
meeting, the Assembly was invited to
remain and partake of a “Pic-nic” which
had been prepared by the Teachers and was
by no means an ungenerous affair. The
remnants we distributed among the sick and
old ladies. The Exponent is ever welcome
among us and I think  is appreciated by all.
Sister Simons often reads it to the sisters in
our meetings, as all have not the means of 
obtaining it.  It is especially interesting to 
learn from it the progress of the Jerusalem 
Party, written by our beloved sister, Eliza
R. Snow.
			M. A. HARDY, Secretary.
			      ——
   From Logan, May 21st, 1873:   A brief 
report of the annual meeting of the Relief
Society, held in Logan Hall, on the 19 inst.,
Mrs. M.  A.  Maughan, President of  the
Society Presiding. Minutes of the last
meeting were read and accepted; also the
financial reports for the year; showing that
the means collected had been faithfully dis-
bursed to the poor and needy.  Though
there was not a large attendance, those
present enjoyed a good meeting, and re-
ceived many wise instructions from our
President and others, who expressed their
desires to do good.    We consider your
paper constantly increases in value, and
deem it a great blessing.—Yours in the
Gospel of Peace,
				 MARY MCALISTER.
			     ——
 Minutes of the 59th meeting of  the C.R. 
A., held June 7th, 1873, at the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms. Meeting opened by
singing "May we who know the joyful
sound,” etc.   Prayer by Counselor Mrs.
P. Woodruff.  Singing, "Behold the Moun-
tain of the Lord,” etc.  Minutes of the pre-
vious meeting were read and accepted; also,
minutes of meetings in the 8th and 11th
Wards were read.
	Remarks made by President Mrs.
M. I. Horne. The minutes which had been
read, were to her very edifying. The sub-
jects of medicine and nursing the sick were
to be continued that day. Kind nursing
was more reliable than medicine. There
were many present who could give good
instructions. The speaker believed there
was an herb for every disease; many were
afflicted with colds.  For a cold to drink
sage tea and bathe the feet upon going to bed 
was a good thing.  For liver complaint, tea 
made from the dandelion root was excellent.
For children afflicted with dysentery,  to 
give a dose of caster oil would often do good.
For a fever, to bathe in saleratas and water
or salt and water was very good.   In sick-
ness faith should always be united with 
medicines given. The subject was inex-
haustible.
  Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young said the
remarks that had been made by sister Horne
were excellent. They should give medicine
in time, and not let children waste away
before exertions were made to relieve them.
The ordinances of the Church should never
be forgotten. To see the progress the sisters


were making was sufficient to make them
think they were living in the millenium.
	Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff said there
were so many excellent subjects before her
she did not know which was best.   In sick-
ness she believes in the ordinances of the
Gospel as much as any thing.   Mothers
should watch their children; they would
then have little cause to employ doctors.
They should look closely to the nature of
the disease, and then having learned to un-
derstand it, give that which will prove
effectual in curing. The subject which was
before the meeting, was one which concerned
every person.   It was a great blessing which
their Heavenly Father bestowed upon them
in allowing them to meet together to receive
instruction. They should treasure up all
that was instructive; not by the multitude
of words spoken but by the spirit in which
they were spoken, was the testimony given.
 Counselor Mrs. E. Howard said, she could
truly say that all which had been advanced
that afternoon was excellent.  She did not
approve of sending for doctors, unless there
was something very serious. If the Word
of Wisdom was, kept, very little sickness
would be known.
  Mrs. Harper considered the remarks of
sister Horne and the prescriptions which
she had given were good; had had much
sickness to contend with and knew the pre-
scriptions which had been given to be
genuine.  They should guard their child-
ren, and say nothing that would turn them
from the plan of salvation.  She prayed the
Lord to bless all efforts to do good.
  Mrs. W. East could concur with all that had
been spoken. If they had a book of recipes
for sickness, from the sisters, she would not
exchange it for any medical work.  Since
she had become a Latter-day Saint, she had
always gone to the good Doctor, which was
God.   They should keep in mind the coun-
sel of President Young, which was to use
mild herbs and the ordinances of God.  She
would recommend for a burn, the application
of a cloth three or four thicknesses wet with
cold water, with great care not to let the
air get to the burned flesh. For erysipelas,
apply to the parts affected a cloth three or
four thicknesses wet with starch mixed with
cold water; mix saleratus and cider vinegar
and drink.
  Counselor Mrs S. M. Kimball continued
her lecture on health.   Mrs. Hampton and
Mrs. Whitney made excellent remarks.
Counselor Z. D. Young recommended for
measles that were obstinate, to drink the
tea of wheat.
  Mrs Pixton recommended for severe vom-
iting dry corn pa[--]ed on the cob, pour boil-
ing water on it, and drink the tea. For a
cold, drink warm drinks and have hot bricks
dipped in cold water wrapped in flannels
and put around the body.   For inflamations
apply corn meal mush poultices, with a
little mustard in it. For children in fist,
give rue tea.
  The same subject to be continued next
meeting.   Meeting adjourned for two
weeks.   Singing, Lord dismiss us, etc.
Benediction by Mrs. Watmough.
				M. M. Groo Secretary.


﻿WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


Philip Straus recently lost $75,000 by
stock operations in New York, and settled
with his creditors by blowing his brains out.

	Mrs.. John Muzzey of Portland, who
lately contributed five hundred dollars to
the funds of the Marine Society of New
Buryport, has again given two hundred
dollars to the Howard Benevolent Society,
and two hundred to the Society for the
Relief of Aged Women.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

	A mother has no right to bring up a
daughter without teaching her how to keep
house, and if she has an intelligent regard
to her daughter’s happiness, will not do it.
By knowing how to keep house, we do not
mean mearely how books should be arranged
on the center-table, and how to tell servants
what is wanted to be done. We mean how
to get a breakfast, a dinner, a supper; how
to make a bed; how to sweep a room; how
to do a thousand and one different things
which are requisite to keep home in order,
and to make it pleasant. A person who
does not know how to do a thing well, does
not know how to have it done well.  No
number of servants make up for the want of
knowledge in a mistress.  A family em-
ployed a girl to do general house-work. She
came just at night, and the first thing
assigned her to do was to wash the supper
dishes.  She washed them in cold water,
and without soap!  A gentleman sent home
a roasting piece of beef, and a quantity of
cut porter-house steaks. When he sat down
to dinner he learned that the new cook had
roasted the steaks!  Yet many a boarding-
school miss, at the time of her marriage,
might make either of these mistakes. Not
 ne woman in a thousand knows how to
make bread as it can be made.  And sour
tempers, scoldings, dyspepsia, with, its in-
describable horrors, and even death itself,
not unfrequently result from bad cooking.
Mothers, what ever else you can teach your
daughters, do not neglect to instruct them
in all the mysteries of house-keeping. So
shall you put them in the way of good hus-
bands and happy homes.—Exchange.
	Renewing Maroon Colors on Wool.—
Wash the good in very weak lye; then
rinse thoroughly in clean water; thus you
have a beautiful, even color, although your
goods may have been much faded and
stained. Though the color thus obtained
may not be the exact shade as when new, it
is, however, a very pretty one. The above
will not answer for other than all woolen
goods of a maroon color.
	Cochineal Coloring.—Cochineal, alum,
cream tartar, carb.  potassa,  each three
drams; water, eight ounces; sugar, six
ounces. Rub the cochineal, alum and cream
tartar with eight ounces of boiling water,
and, when cold, gradually add carb. potassa,
and strain; pour water on the strainer suffi-
cient to measure  eight fluid ounces, then
add the sugar.
	Stye on the Eyelid.—Put a teaspoon-
ful of black tea in a small bag pour on it
just enough boiling waiter to moisten it;
then put it on the eye pretty warm.  Keep
it on all night, and in the morning the stye
will be gone; if not, a second application is
sure to remove it.
	Rice Cheese-cakes.—Simmer two quarts
of cream with some mace and cinnamon,
then take it off the fire, and put in it half a
pound of ground rice, mix them well, and
again boil the cream, taking care to stir it
continually. Remove the vessel from the
fire, and beat up two dozen eggs in it.
Again make it boil, continuing to stir it,
until it becomes thick like curd, sweeten it
and add half a pound of blanched almonds
beaten up with sugar into powder.
	To make Water-Proof Cloth out of
thick ducking, the following French recipe
is given: Take two pounds four ounces of
alum, and disolve in ten gallons of water.
In like manner disolve the same quantity of
sugar of lead in a similar quantity of water,
and mix the two together.  They form a
precipitate of lead.  The clear liquor is now
[new column]
withdrawn, and the cloth immersed one 
hour in the solution, when it is taken out
and dried in the shade, washed in clean 
water and dried again. 
	Nice Cake without Eggs.—Two cups
of white sugar, two cups sour cream, two 
cups sifted flour, slightly heaping, one and
a-half teaspoons of soda, which should be
pulverized and beat up with the sugar and 
cream before the flour is added; flavor with
lemon; bake in rather quick oven. In
making cake, one needs to use her own 
judgment in regard to the quantity of flour
needed, as more is required if Spring wheat 
flour is used than for Winter wheat. One
can easily determine the amount of flour 
needed by trying a small portion in the
oven. 
	A Neat Tidy.—Take four pieces of lath
of equal length, and fasten them securely at 
the corners in a square frame, as large as 
you wish the tidy to be.  Drive tacks into 
this at the corners, and in all sides, one and
one-fourth inches apart.  Then fasten one
end of a ball of white wool on one of the
tacks next the corner, carry to the one on
the opposide site and back, then back again,
leaving three threads in a place; carry to
next tack, and proceed as before, till your
frame is filled. Then turn it and cross the
“warp” thus made at right angles in the
same way; then turn your frame again and
wind the wool “cornerwise”—excuse the
word—dividing the check squares into 
triangles—turn the frame again so as to 
cross the last at right angles. Fasten and 
cut off your white wool, and with a yarn
needle, and red wool, fasten all corners
where all courses cross, leaving several ends 
at all the outside crossings. Cut the wool
from the tacks. Trim the edges even, leav-
ing the ends as little tassels, and you have
a perfect gem of a tidy.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	Many of the skilled workmen of Paris are
still emigrating.
	In a saloon fight at Oconto, Wis., a man
was stabbed twenty-four times.
	Luzerne county, Pa., has a twenty-mil-
lionaire in the person of Ario Pardee.
	The Waukegan “Gazette" reports a colt
one year old which measures 14 hands.
	The United Presbyterians of Great
Britain have raised $40,000 for missions in 
Japan.
	On the 6th of May, at Hawley, Mass., a
road had to be dug through snow four feet
deep.
	A Louisville man has invented a gun
which he claims will shoot 300 time.in a
minute.
	Two more colored cadets have been ap-
pointed to West Point and Annapolis,
respectively.
	Chief Justice Chase willed $10,000 to
Dartmouth College, and $10,000 to Wilber-
force University, Ohio.
	Several French papers are discussing-
the question of drowning capital prisoners
instead of hanging them.
	There are said to be over 20,000 white
men in Kentucky, all native-born Ameri-
cans, who can neither read nor write.
	Eighty-three of the cigar makers of
Keokuk have presented the revenue col-
lector with a gold-headed cane.
	A Florida woman has made $500, this
year, by preserving the fruit of some twenty
guava bushes. Why don’t more of the
invalids who populate Florida pay expenses
this way.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

	LOUISE L. GREENE Editor,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City,
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, June 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	Chicago lately had three suicides in one
week......Until a successor is appointed,
associate Justice Clifford acts in place of
Chief Justice Chase......Six murders were
committed in San Francisco during the last
month......Lizzie Adrian of Auburn, was
thrown from a buggy at the pic-nic on
Decoration Day, and badly if not fatally
injured; if death were the result, her’s
would be another grave to decorate......New
York is going to have a new and splendid
theatre, to be opened on the 1st of October.
......The 2nd and 3rd of this month were
observed as a bank holiday in London, and
as holidays in the Liverpool cotton market.
......It is proposed by the French Government
to abandon the commercial treaty with
England......The Japanese are said to eat
every kind of ocean or river creature they
can get......Some parts of New England are
sadly troubled with Gipsies.......Cuba is
threatened with the small-pox becoming
epidemic.....Among the latest inventions
is a cannon to be exploded by nitro-glycer-
ine......Nashville has a life insurance com-
pany for colored people only......The grass-
hopper plague is now in Texas......Winter
wheat in some portions of Illinois is said to
promise unequaled crops......The historic
portion of Boston is left without a church
edifice.......Ben Butler is reported trying for
next governor, of Massachusetts......A natur-
alization treaty has been concluded between
the United States and Denmark......Senator
Sumner has divorced his wife......Since the
opening of the Exposition, hotel rates in
Vienna have nearly doubled.......One man,
William B. Aster, is said to be the owner of
3,000 houses in New York......Snow fell in
the north part of England on the 19th ult.
.......The great Chicago Jubilee was a failure.
........Governor Dix of New York will not
prohibit the sale of wine and beer lest it
increase the use of stronger drinks.......The
Carlists in-Spain shoot their prisoners........
Steel railing is to be used on portions of
Detroit and Milwaukee railroad......At Nor-
folk, Va., a colored boy carried off a cadet-
ship in a competitive examination.......The
Carlists are said to have negotiated a loan
with British capitalists, of 400,000,000 reals.
......The Rev. Mr. Hay, of Des Moines,
Iowa, has a wife who is a physician and a
daughter studying law........Georgia had
twenty murderers under sentence of death in
May.......Companies of Hartford lose $,990-
275 by the Boston fire......A New York man
has spent $70,000 for pictures in Rome,
this season......Esquimaux Joe says the
late Captain Hall came to his death by
poison.......Four thousand Chinese immi-
grants landed in San Francisco in May.......A
California church organ is worked by water
power........Between two and three hundred
teamsters struck for higher wages in St.
Louis the other day......A Congregational
Church Sunday School, in San Francisco,
lately celebrated its fourteenth anniversary.
Should not such birthdays be more generally
noticed....Over fifty mrriage certificates were
issued in Chicago in one day recently........
Chinese lepers are causing a stir in Sacra-
mento......Lady lecturers are on the increase
in New York; 17 are advertized for the com-
ing winter.......Olive Logan quits the lecture-
field in this country, and with her husband,
Wirt Sikes, retires to Europe for a few years.
......Grace Greenwood spends the summer in
her cottage at Colorado Springs, near Den-
ver... Whitclaw Reid is said to acknowledge
funds through him of $10,000, to the Greeley
statue fund......A Philadelphia man recently
killed his father-in-law by hitting him with
abrick which he clains to have thrown in
[new column]
self defence........A colored man in Baltimore
was the other day convicted of the murder
of his paramour.......The Rev. David Swing,
of Chicago, has been lecturing for the bene-
fit of the Home for Newsboys and Bootblacks.
......It is believed that Indian insurrection
is quieted, now that Captain Jack is in chains.
......Decrease of the negro population is
great in the South......California Pioneers
have an association and hold meetings......
A young rogue—not a “relative”—“doesn’t
like government ‘Grants’, ” and "hopes we
shan’t be pestered with any more of the
present kind.”  What should be done with
him?


NURSING THE SICK. 

	As there is nothing more productive of hap-
piness than good health, nothing more uncer-
tain than its possession, there can be no study
pursued to better advantage than that which
teaches how best to preserve and increase its
properties. There is no calling of greater im
portance or more becoming to a woman, old or
young, than that of being a good nurse, since
accidents will happen and sickness must occur
while mortality lasts. The following hints on
the subject of nursing the sick, we clip from the
writings of an intelligent author in miscellany.
	*	*	Those young ladies who have warm
affections, and ready sympathies, will seek
this duty, rather than avoid it; and though
long-continued efforts are not to be expected
from persons who act from impulse, many kind
attentions are thus paid; and a litlle knowledge
as to the best manner of performing the service,
so readily and generously undertaken, will add
much to its value. But it is only such as act
in this, as in other things, from the highest
principle, who can ever be the ready, cheerful,
indefatigable, persevering,and agreeable nurses,
that young ladies should aim to be, and may
become by self-regulation, together with a lit-
tle instructions as to the details of a sick
chamber.
	The essential qualities of a good nurse must
grow of that entire devotion of the heart to do
what is right in the smallest as in the greatest
affairs of life, which is the only foundation of
virtue and happiness.  No motives short of the
highest are proof against the trials and temp-
tations of a sick chamber; the duties of a nurse
require perfectly good faith and constant self-
sacrifice;  truth and justice are even more
essential in the intercourse of the nurse and
patient, than between man and man, in the
more public transactions of life; and without
this strict principle, this single purpose to do
right in all things, no instructions, however
minute, can make good nurses.
	Supposing, therefore, that this indispensable
foundation exists, a young woman may easily
acquire that knowlege of nursing which shall
render her services to the sick of the highest
value. Those who have had much personal ex-
perience of illness, often learn from it how to
minister to others, how to avoid the awkward
actions from which they have themselves suf-
fered, and how to apply the remedies which have
alleviated their own pains; but those who have
never been very ill themselves, and have had
no experience in nursing, cannot know the
various ways in which the sulferings of patients
may be lessened or increased by the mode of
attending upon them.  One who has never en-
[new column]
dured a nervous headache cannot imagine the 
aggravation of it produced by a heavy step in 
the room, the banging or creacking of a door, 
admitting light through a crack in the shutters, 
asking unnecessary questions,  jarring the bed
on which the patient lies, and a thousand such
inadvertencies as seem the veriest trifles to those
who are in robust health, but are serious evils
to the sick

	Now as every young woman ought to know 
how to perform the gentle offices of a good 
nurse, and few can be supposed to have had 
much experince of sickness, it is well to gain 
the necessary information from every source 
that presents itself.

	A light step, quick but gentle movements, 
and a dexterous use of the hands, are pre-requi- 
sites in a good nurse; they seem to be natural 
endowments, and to belong, in a great degree,
to original temperament and conformation. 
But, in this as in other things, something may 
be done by cultivation, where nature has not 
done the most by observing the alert move- 
ments and nimble fingers of expert persons, 
young ladies may improve their own, and avoid 
at least that degree of clumsiness which has 
been described by saying of a person, “He uses-
his hands as if all his fingers were thumbs, and
his thumbs legs of mutton.”

	Ceaseless attention, fond and thoughtful care,
preserve many more lives than all the medical
treatment of skilled physicians. Yet it is highly 
necessary that every nurse, and every mother,
should understand how to act and what reme-
dies, in extreme cases, should be resorted to. 
 	
	At the meetings of the Co-operative Re- 
trenchment Associations, held in the 14th 
Ward Assembly Rooms, in this city, each
alternate Saturday, these subjects are now 
receiving attention and every young mother
will do well to avail herself of these opportuni-
ties of hearing the instructions there given by
experienced and intelligent ladies.


HOW TO BE RICH.
	
	A portion of advice given by President Brig-
ham Young to the people, a few Sundays ago,
was in substance, never want anything you
can not get, and never get a thing for which 
you are unable to pay.
	Having educated the mind to fully compre-
hend and appreciate this great principle, and
basing the method of living thereupon, a person
becomes immediately independent; and with
ordinary abilities and ambition for accumulat-
ing,  cannot fail of being rich in time.
	And this beautiful lesson of self discipline is
not so difficult to learn as some ambiguous
minds may imagine. It is only to look about,
with eyes that are willing to see sunshine as
well as shadows in life’s journey, to find some-
thing for which to be grateful; some blessing
to bring to remembrance that God still lives 
and still cares for the works of His hands. And 
constant gratitude never ceases to bring a con-
tinuous flow of joy and satisfaction. Where
this priceless boon of contentment is a compan-
ion, poverty cannot long exist.  The very
cheerfulness is an escape from want, and finds
a door to open, through which the creative
power may be furnished with employment and
seek and gain means for removing necessities.
There is no safety in riches, other than those
which fertilize and adorn the inner soul,
placing it above those vanities and that sordid
selfishness which, if allowed to rule, would vex
and fret the wealthiest as well as the poorest of
our Father’s creature. These then, are the true
riches to seek after, and having found them it 
is easy to obtain all others—indeed they will
naturally flow into the hands of the frugal,
the industrious, the patient and humble.
	“Who lives to nature, rarely can be poor,
	Who lives to fancy, never can be rich."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Steel engraved portraits of President
B. Young are ready and handsomely framed for
those who have sent in clubs calling for them.
Will they please say how they wish the por-
traits forwarded? 
	Very warm pleasant sunshine h asdiffused
its genial influence through all nature, in and
around this city, during the past days of the
present month; and the grateful earth ac-
knowledges the favor, by putting on her lovely
summer robes, and wearing smiles as bright as
though the cold wet weather of the last month
had been forgotten.
	A communication from a young lady in
Manchester, England, will be found in the
present issue of the Exponent. We are pleased
to hear from our friends in different parts of
the world, and gratefully appreciate kind words
of encouragement from those who wish us well
in our humble efforts to do good and extend
the Truth.
	The other day, the "Salt Lake Herald;"
for all the world like a sensible and prudent
lady, put on a neat new dress and went straight
ahead with its every-day work, as though noth-
ing unusual had happened, and there was no
necessity for asking the notice and admiration
of friends to increase its good nature and happy
self-satisfaction.
	Measures are being taken by Sabbath
School superintendents and teachers, to have,
at an early date, a grand Sabbath School Con-
cert, in this city, in which several thousand
children, it is expected, will join. A joyous
time is anticipated, and well may be; for what
music, either in nature or from studied science
can be more sweetly rendered than that of child-
ren's voices nicely diciplined ?
	On the evening of the 3rd inst., a very
creditable concert was given in the 15th Ward
in this city; and a like entertainment was held
in the 14th Ward Asssembly Rooms on the
evening of the 9th. These musical recreations
are given in the different Wards from time to
time for the benefit of the Sabbath Schools,
purchase of church organs and other like
purposes, and should be liberally patronized.
	The death of the faithful, much respected
and well beloved Elder in Israel, Joseph W.
Young, which occurred at Harrisburg, Wash-
ington County, Southern Utah, on the evening
of the 7th inst., is the occasion of much and
keen regret among his many friends, who, we
believe to be as numerous as his acquaintances.
None, perhaps have felt the shock more deeply
than his aged mohter; who, although her home
has been for some years, with her children in the
South, was, at the time of the sad occurrence,
visiting among her friends in Cache Valley.
	Before another number of the Exponent
is issued, Miss Eliza R. Snow will have reached
her home in this city, where a warm welcome
awaits her. Her letters which appear in this
number, will, therefore, be the last presented
to her numerous friends throughout the Terri-
tory, during her absence. Yet, our journal
being small, she has, in writing for it, been
obliged to compress, and study brevity, merely
tripping over the ground; we may, consequently,
safely anticipate still further accounts from her
generous pen, which will be of a most interest-
ing and instructive character to the women of
the Latter-day Saints, after her return home.
	A lady of this city, speaks of having acci-
dently overheard a group of sensible gentle-
men, commenting upon the taste displayed and
waste indulged in by a portion of the "coming
women." They counted over their wages, and
then the cost of supporting a wife, and concluded
they could not marry. Besides, it was disgust-
ing to them to see so little sense manifested by
beings who should be intelligent. It was sug-
gested to us to warn such young ladies, through
the Exponent, that they would never have
chances to marry well until they reformed; but
we do not think that any whose fancies are
carried away with fashion, ever read the Expo-
nent therefore, the hint would be given in
vain, unless it might be an encouraging feature
to some of the persevering members of our
Retrenchment Associations.
	The traffic of liquor and the painful results
thereof, having reached a degree so disgraceful
as not to be patiently and silently borne by
good and temperance loving citizens,has been pe-
titioned againanst d a prohibition asked of these
gross and accumulating evils, so far as possible,
in this city; and that a majority of the ladies,
at least, have affixed their names to the peti-
tion, or will do so, is certain, if the eagerness
with which quite a number have been wit-
nessed signing, is any criterion. On Sunday,
the 8th inst., President Brigham Young put the
matter to a vote of the people assembled in the
Tabernacle, and it was clearly evinced that the
general feeling was, as it should be in an intel-
ligent community, not in favor of unrestricted
liquor traffic. Most likely many who have
grown into a habit of taking stimulents, until
it is as necessary for them, almost as food,
would feel to condemn the restriction on
this greatest source of all evil. But in after
time, it might be impossible for them to say
how vast the individual good wrought each one
of them by having "the knife with which he
was cutting his own throat" taken out of his
hand.


WOMANS VOICE.
 
							May 30th,1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	The late cyclones or tornadoes in Iowa
and Illinois, with a series of storms preced-
ing them, also, the precarious temperature
of the season, and likewise the attempt at
special legislation against us, remind one of
former drivings of the Saints and that by
said special legislation another drive was
anticipated and desired. But justice, though
long delayed, must surely follow; and “the
end is not yet.” 
	I have the reading of your very valuable
paper, and as a small token of my apprecia-
tion, please accept the inclosed. 
			Your friend,
							M. A. P. H.


﻿A new suit has been commenced against
the Union Pacific Railroad Company and Cre-
dit Mobilier, by Lucy D. Fisk, executrix of
James Fisk Jr. Some one makes and some
one else loses; money is shifted about from
one pocket to another, and who is the wiser
or better for it all?


The Chinese immigration to the Pacific
Coast is becoming so large that, with their
cheap prices for labor, other laborers will,
apparently, have but little show for enrich-
ing themselves in that region.  There will
likely follow heavy "strikes" for higher
wages—necessarily perhaps, but with results
doubtfu.


﻿To show how much the working of raw
material affects usefulness, some one has
arranged the following: A bar of iron,
worth $5, worked into horse shoes is worth
$10:50, made into needles, $355, made into
penknife blades, $384, and into the hair
springs of watches, it is worth $200,000.


﻿WHAT NOT.

	Smiles may not always win the case,
but they do sometimes, while frowns never 
do.
	A Western editor says that fresh water
has tasted strong of sinners since the uni-
versal deluge, and this is why he flavors it. 
	Miss Walters affirms that good husbands
are like dough because women need (knead) 
them.
	Speaking of the danger of catching small-
pox by handling greenbacks, a country
editor congratulates himself that he’s safe
enough.
	Josh Billings says: I luv my phalings.
It is these that make me feel that I have
that touch ov nature in me that makes me
brother tew every man living.
	If you would be well with a great mind,
leave him with a favorable impression of
you; if with a little mind, leave him with a
favorable impression of himself.—Coleridge. 
	It is not "the thing" now to wear the bridal
vail over the face at all. It is twisted about
the head in a manner strongly suggestive
of a burlesque actress about to have her
photograph taken.
	A canary bird hung in its cage over
night at the top of a curtained bed, has
been found dead in the morning from the
poisoned atmosphere created by the human
lungs of the sleepers below it.
	That was a delicate compliment given
by a ragged newsboy to the pretty girl who
bought a paper of him. “Poor little fellow,”.
said she, “ain’t you very cold?” “I was,
ma’am, before you passed,” he replied.
	A Yankee grocer, being solicited to con-
tribute to the building of a new church,
promptly subscribed his name to the paper
in the following manner: “John Jones (the
only place in town where you can get eleven
pounds of good sugar for one dollar), twenty-
five cents.”
	“What time is it, my-dear?” asked a
wife of her husband, whom she suspected
of being drunk, but who was doing his best
to look sober. “Well, my darling, I can't
tell; 'cause you see, there are two hands on
my watch, and each  points to a different
figure, and I don't know which to believe.”
	George Selwyn once affirmed in com-
pany that no woman ever wrote a letter
without a postscript. “My next letter shall
refute you!” said lady G. Selwyn soon
after received a letter from her ladyship,
wherein after her signiture, stood: P. S.
“Who is right now, you or I?”
	It is no more a sign of a smart boy to be
a great reader, than it is of a strong man to
be a great eater. One may read too much
as well as eat too much, and the brain as
well as the stomach be loaded with undi-
gested food that is only an injury to it. It
is not what you eat, but what you digest
that makes you strong.
	A lazy dyspeptic was bewailing his own
misfortunes, and speaking with a friend on
the latter’s hearty appearance. “What do
you do to make yourself look so strong and
healthy?” inquired the dyspeptic, “Live
on fruit alone,” answered the friend. "What
kind of fruit” “The fruit of industry; and
I am never troubled with indigestion.
	True bravery is sedate and inoffensive;
if it refuses to submit to insults, it offers
none; It begins no disputes; enters no need-
less quarrels; it is above the little trouble-
some ambition to be distinguished every
moment; it bears in silence and replies with
modesty, fearing no enemy and making
none; and is as much ashamed of insolence
as cowardice.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DON'T LET MOTHER DO IT.

	Daughter, don't let mother do it !
	    Do not let her slave and toil;
	While you sit, a useless idler
	    Fearing your soft hands to soil,
	Don't you see the heavy burdens
	    Daily she is wont to bear,
	Bring the lines upon her forehead,
	    Sprinkle silver in her hair?

	Daughter don’t let mother do it !
	    Do not let her bake or broil
	Through the long, bright summer hours,
	    Share with her the heavy toil;
	See, her eye has lost its brightness,
	    Faded from her cheek the glow,
	And the step that once was buoyant
	    Now is feeble, weak and slow.

	Daughter, don't let mother do it !
	    She has cared for you so long;
	Is it right the weak and feeble
	    Should be toiling for the strong?
	Waken from your listless langor,
	    Seek her side to cheer and bless,
	And your grief will be less bitter
	    When the sods above her press

	Daughter, don't let mother do it !
	    You will never, never know
	What was home without a mother
	    Till that mother lieth low—
	Low beneath the budding daisies,
	   Free from earthly care or pain—
	To the home so sad without her,
	    Never to re urn again.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

				Vienna, Austria, May 4, 1873. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Dear Lula:—My last was written after
our arrival in Munich, which, after Berlin,
Vienna and Hamburg, is first of importance
in the German Empire, and contains about
one hundred and seventy-five thousand in-
habitants. It is a handsome, live city—has
many beautiful buildings, and some wide,
clean, well-paved streets and side walks.
This is the place of nativity of Mrs. Paul A.
Schettler, whom we had the pleasure of
meeting here, she having preceded us about
two weeks, on a visit to her relatives. We
are much indebted to the kindness of her
brother, Mr. Gierisch, who tendered assist-
ance in gaining admittance to places of
interest. He conducted us through the
King’s Palace, and being in His Majesty’s
service and confidence, showed us into apart-
ments not accorded to the inspection of
general visitors, many of whom were in
some portions of the Palace with us. We
visited several rooms which represent the
sixteenth century, remaining in their origi-
nal style of that period; others of later, and
down to present date; Some of which are
only used on special royal occasions. We
passed through a large hall which was being
fitted up on the occasion of the Prince of
Bavaria wedding the Princess of Austria,
who, with some of the Austrian Court, were
to arrive in two or three days, when a grand
reception is to be given in this hall.
	When in Venice we visited a Glass Manu-
factory, where glass was spun into very fine
threads, and worked into any desirable form,
as readily as silk; and in this Bavarian
Palace we saw magnificent brocade window-
curtains, of beautiful colors, made entirely
of glass. Some apartments were ornamented
Carrington thought it a pity that so much of
the precious metal should be useless, which
with gold in great profusion. Professor
might be better employed in behalf of
suffering humanity. The four walls of one
room were hung with portraits of ladies,
called the “Beauties of Munich”—Mrs.
Schettler and I thought, Salt Lake City could
furnish as many, equally beautiful.
	The next day Mr. Gierisch obtained cards
of admission, and conducted us to one of the
many Universities in the city, which we
found to be a Normal school for the educa-
tion of teachers, which graduates about thirty
annually. The ground floor of the building
is appropriated to the Kinder-garten, a dis-
cription of which I forwarded to the
Juvenile Instructor. We visited three of
the Normal departments: in one, a lady was
superintending, while amateur young ladies
were taking practical lessons in teaching the
classes, under her supervision. The other
departments were under the immediate
tuition of gentlemen teachers. In one of
these, I remarked to one of the professors,
who accompanied us, that the young ladies’ 
appearance indicated energy of character, a
requisite attribute for teachers, to which he
assnted, adding that they were also good
natuered, which elicited a hearty respon-
sive smile of gratification from the young
ladies, and produced a pleasant general
sensation.
	In the last department, the number was
small: in this, the students were completing
their education, which we were informed,
is very thorough.
	We were shown into the Professor’s
studio, and also into the Superintendent's
Laboratory, where were chemical apparatus
and botanic specimens, some of which were
enlarged illustrations, for the benefit of
students; a manakin: also separate specimens
of human bodily organs, much enlarged,
etc. We were informed that no young lady
can obtain a diploma as teacher, until she
is a proficient in all of these branches: con-
necting the physical with the mental, is
certainly a healthful consideration in the
educational process. A cultivated mind in
a sound body, can be much more effective
in doing good, than in an unsound one;
which makes it requisite that school teach-
ers, as well as parents, should understand
the physiology, and the anatomical structure
of the human body, in order to promote its
healthful condition and adaptation, while
cultivating the mind.
	In France, boys and young men only, are
trained in gymnastics; but here, they are
practiced by both sexes. They have ap-
pointed times for these exercises—we did
not witness them.
	The afternoon of the 28th was a gala time
in Munich. At half past three, the Bava-
rian groom and Austrian bride would arrive
at the depot; and with their suit, ride in
carriages to the Palace. Of course all
Munich must see them, and that portion,
minus contiguous porticos, windows, etc.,
were on the streets and sidewalks, ourselves
with the rest, to the number, as was judged,
of from forty to fifty thousand. We were
fortunately in a position to receive, or rather
share their gracious smiles and bows; but
after all had passed, we began to think of
returning to the hotel! It was of no use to
make an effort, and we stood as still as the
presure of the crowd would admit, for some
time, bracing ourselves as much as possible,
to prevent being carried on the waves of the
streaming multitude. All were smiling
with pleasure, but this gave me the more
striking idea of the horrors attendant on a
riotous uprising, where people are subject to
be trodden to death without the possibility
of escape! Such was the eagerness of the
people to get a glimpse of the pageantry
of royalty, on this auspicious occasion, that
mounted officers were constantly on duty,
pressing them back sufficiently for the pro-
cession to pass. This young Prince is cousin
to the present king of Bavaria, who is mar-
ried.
	The evening before leaving Munich, we
were joined by Hon. Erastus Snow and his
son Erastus, who has been on a Mission in
England; Missionary Agent of New York, W.
C. Staines; Elder J. G. Bleake from the Liver.
pool office, and Elder Birch from St. George
Having from some unknown cause, fai led o  
getting our mail, the arrival of these breth-
ren, and the information they brought, was
like “light shining in a dark place.” W e
all left Munich on the morning of the 29th,
when twelve and a half hours by rail
brought us three hundred miles to Vienna. 
This is truly a beautiful city, said to contain
640,000 inhabitants. The streets are broad,
with many open squares for free ventilation
and are kept clean; the houses are frequently
five stories high, and neatly built. By
ascending some four hundred and twenty
steps in the spire of St. Stephen’s Church,
we had a magnificent view of the city and
surroundings, including the exterior of the
unrivaled Palace of the Exposition, or
“World Fair,” which in the distance of two
miles, appeared as if washed by the noble
Danube, on which we saw little boats mov- 
ing, apparently in miniature. 
	The Fair was formally opened on the 1s[-]
of May, as per announcement, but it will be
one month at least, before its arrangements
are completed. Many hands are constantly
at work making preparations for, and un-
packing boxes of articles. The American
Department is very little arranged, and I
think no one is complete; and yet there is
very much of the useful and ornamental
already on exhibition; enough to illustrate
the magnitude of design, and the order and
magnificence of the arrangements. The
Crystal Palace, in London, is a splendid
affair, but will not bear comparison with this
in Vienna. 
	Since leaving home I have seen many
places and many people—people in contrasts
of circumstances, with wide extremes of
habit and customs—have seen the rich, in
pomp and grandeur, and the poor in beggary
and wretchedness—have associated with
the highly educated and refined, and with
the ignorant and semi-civilized have—visited
magnificent royal palaces, and wretched
abodes—have traveled over fertile plains
and sterile deserts, verdant valleys and
snow-capped mountains; and, although
I have cherished a constant determination
to enjoy everything enjoyable, while abroad
and have realey done so, I still think, as I
have hitherto invariably thought, that home, 
with the Latter-day Saints, is the
place of the highest happiness attain-
able on earth.
						Eliza R. Snow. 

	Hamburg, Germany, May 16, 1873. 
Editor Woman’s Exponent:— 
	Dear Lula:—We left Vienna on the 9th,
and arrived at Berlin, the capital of Ger-
many, the next evening. The cold, stormy
weather which overtook us at Munich,
followed us to Vienna and from there to
Berlin, where we had but one sunny day,
which we improved in out door sight-seeing.
Walking down the principal promenade in
the city, called Linden Street, (Unter der
Linden) so named from being lined with
four rows of lime trees; we strolled into the
Thier Garten, an extensive public, ground
with artificial forests and shrubbery—garden
plats, with statues in the center surrounded
with flour beds in full bloom—broad streets
for carriages and omnibuses—side walks for
pedestrians and on opposite sides, roads for
horseback riders. These streets, many
in number, cross at right angles, and
extend far away in the distance, forming
delightful avenues through the tall trees
with their fresh, shady foliage. This fur-
nishes a healthful exercise and innocent
recreation for thousands. Here we saw
multitudes of people of all classes—promen-


ading, riding on horseback, in carriages,
omnibuses and coaches; while others, seated
on rustic benches, formed to correspond to
the surrounding scenery, were enjoying the
social chat under shade of waving branches.
It was truly delightful; and I thought that
Salt Lake City, with its ample streets,
beautiful streamlets and the  many advantages
it possesses, is quite deficient in this respect
—it greatly needs cultivated public grounds
—not only as being ornamental, but also of
real utility.
	One of the stormy days, we visited the
great German Parliament, where we saw
Count Bismark and General Moltke, of
Franco-Prussian war celebrity, both mem-
bers of Parliament, and have seats near each
other. We also saw Dr. Schleiden whom
we met in New York. The Parliament
House is not so large as the one occupied by
the French Assembly in Versailles, but
showed a fuller attendance than when we
visited the latter. The gallery was crowded
with spectators, both gentlemen and ladies,
the latter, by the expression of countenance,
manifesting as deep feeling of interest as
the more lordly portion.  We listened in-
tently to two earnest speeches, but not
comprehending the dialect, could not decide
on their merits. 
	I much admire the appearance of the
Prussian ladies. Generally speaking, they
exhibit the most womanly good sense in
their style of dress of any nationality I have
seen for several years past. In spite of the
prohibition against judging from appear-
ances, the exterior, unavoidably makes an
impression with regard to the interior; and
inasmuch as dress is acknowledged to be a
legitimate index to the mind, I feel author-
ized to pronounce in favor of these German
ladies—that they are truly worthy of being
the mothers, wives, and daughters of the
staunch, athletic looking soldiers of the
Prussian-German Empire, whom I saw every
day in full uniform marching past my hotel,
by thousands. These ladies dress with
taste, and dress well, but with less disfigur-
ing than fashionables do elsewhere, and in
appearance are genteel, dignified and grace-
ful. I have, here, seen scores of plain dress
skirts worn by ladies apparently of the first
class in society. Good sense is also com-
bined with taste in the fashion of the ladies’
riding suit. The skirt is what Webster
would have called “a sort of betweenity,”
in length, between the short, and the very
long now worn in America, which is in danger
from the horses’ feet. The riding hat is the
same as the gentlemen wear—crown of
medium height between the stovepipe and
the flat, which gives them a stately appear-
ance. But enough about dress. 
	On the 15th we left Hotel Royal, and by
train arrived in Hamburg the same evening.
This is an independent city, the great com-
mercial centre of Germany. Its harbor
contains an immense amount of shipping,
and its railroad trains seem to move in
almost every direction—all is stir and
bustle. Hamburg is certainly a live city,
and some portions of it very beautiful.
	It was late in the evening when we
arrived, but this morning, when I looked
out from one of my windows which com-
mands a good view of several much fre-
quented walks, I was struck with the
uncommon size of the people—they seemed
so very large—both men and women, young
and old. After noticing them at different
times, I remarked that I never saw so
uniformly large people, and that I would
like to see the Hamburg soldiery. This
forenoon we took a ride through the city
and my wish was gratified. Hamburg has
but two thousand; and in passing the parade
ground, a spacious square, we probably saw
all of them on drill, which satisfied my
curiosity. We thought those in Berlin,
much larger than those we saw in France,
and more particularly than those we saw in
Italy; but these Hamburgs are  certainly
more of the Goliath stamp,—the tallest
and stoutest military I ever saw. Their
costume is of Prussian style. 
	I have continued to notice the size of the
people in all parts of the city, where we have
been, and the same characteristic prevails.
I made mention of it to a lady of much
travel and observation—her opinion is the
same; but why this distinction, she failed to
comprehend. We saw no reason why this
city should promote an extra, in the growth
of humans. 
	The continent of Europe is a land of
soldiers. we have seen so many, that we
have become accustomed to the sight; but,
the reflection that the nations are training
for war, awakens at all times, a painful sen-
sation. While the Latter-day Saints are
laboring to establish a kingdom of peace,
the sword is the watchword among the
nations of the earth. 
	This evening we take steamer for London.
President Smith, having received through
the Conference Minutes, official information
of his appointment as Trustee-in-trust, and
feeling anxious to fulfil any obligation, has
relinquished his projected tour to Russia,
which will facilitate our return. On the route,
after crossing the Atlantic, my brother and
I anticipate spending a few days with our
relations. On the 25th is the London Con-
ference, after which, we shall sail as soon as
practicable.
							Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE GIRLS

	It is a verity that will not admit of being
remembered but once in a while, that the
winsome "wee lassies" who romp about
to-day in their bibs and pantelets, will
shortly fill the positions of wives and
mothers.
	So much is truthfully said about the
frivolities and worthlessness of fashionable
young ladies of the day, that one can
scarcely wonder at most parents feeling
half disappointed when a new member is
introduced to the family circle and does not
happen to be of the boy persuation. But
after all, who is most at fault for the vain
and senseless lives of so many of the women
of the 19th century? Where do our
daughters first imbibe their foolish fascina-
tion for extravagance and  meaningless
display in dress; their almost excusable
though selfish ambition to rival each other
in attracting attention and gaining smiles
and words of flattery and consideration; and
their manifest inclinations to idleness or
wanton, careless exercise? Where is the
good, true, industrious and judicious mother
who gives to society the encumbrance of a
silly, flirting, fashionable daughter? We
find none such. 
	It has become a common rule with mo-
thers to foster in the minds of their little
daughters the belief that to dress richly and
be pert and talkative are the chief means of
winning attraction, which must be the
princpal aim of their existence. 
	Nor are mothers alone to blame in the
making of these general mistakes. Well-
to-do fathers take pride themselves in noting
the pleasure with which their bright,
vivacious, witching little darlings will array
themselves  instead of correcting their childish
vanities, by purchasing for them, or en-


couraging their mothers to do so, the most
trifling articles which their fancies demand
	Then, these seeming household treasures,
which should be real ones, are rarely taught
to imagine they might assist in earning or
manufacturing portions of their most neces-
sary clothing. Said an extravagant, and
inconsiderate mother a few years ago when
her husband was thought to be well off,
	“I don’t want my girl to learn to knit;
her father has but the one daughter, and if
he can’t keep her in stockings she can go
without.”
	And this was spoken in the presence of
her seven year old daughter!
	Whether that daughter has gone without
stockings since or not, it does not matter;
but a truth is that the family has seen very
hard times, and are still miserably poor;
while the girl, a young woman now, is an
idle, selfish and unloveable creature,
	If we want our daughters to become
amiable, refined, sensible and beautiful
women, we must give them the principles
upon which to erect such characters, Teach
them to be industrious and orderly in all
their habits, and to value the worth of genu-
ine intelligence, and they will find little time
and less desire to run wild after fashion.
							Mignonia.


LETTER FROM ENGLAND. 
	
				Manchester, England,
						May 8th, 1873. 
	Beloved Sister:—I feel that I must
thank you for all the good you have done
me, and for all the happiness and pleasure
I have received from the perusal of your
valuable paper. It has been a source of
great joy to me; I may almost say a friend
and companion since I have received it. I
have been a better daughter, a better sister,
a better Saint and a firmer friend than I was
before. It has given me a wish to be, and
to do, something for the work in which all
our hopes are centered. Sometimes when I
think of the examples we young sisters have
set us by some of our beloved and noble
sisters, I feel that we ought to profit by
them more than some of us do. We can do
but little in comparison, 'tis true; still you
would say, “do all the good you possi-
bly can in your sphere and you will be
blessed." I wish your paper could be as
extensively circulated and read here, among
our sisters, as at home. It would, I am sure,
be productive of much good, both to the
brethren and the sisters. I feel I can never
be sufficiently grateful to my friend through
whose thoughtful kindness I receive it so
regularly
	I was one of a few to whom was granted
the pleasure of an introduction to our
mutual sister, Miss Eliza R. Snow. It was
a privilege that I greatly appreciate, and
though I only saw her during her short
visit in Liverpool, I should, did I never see
her again,always remember her with love and
veneration. I went with President Carring-
ton and a few others to the station, and
when I saw her and party leave en route
for London, I felt as lonely as if I had known
her for years, 
	With kind love to yourself, and all our
dear sisters in Utah, and best wishes for the
Exponent, which I sincerely pray may con-
tinue to increase in circulation, and hoping
that it may do all the good I know you wish
it to, I remain your grateful and affectionate
sister.
						A. J. Schofield.


﻿It is reported that most of the vines in
Burgundy and Bordeaux.have been frozen,
but New Jersey cider is still plenty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PICTURE FOR CONTEMPLATION.

	There is a growing evil, subject matter of
vital importance, demanding the serious
consideration, deep reflection and firm res-
olution of parents and guardians, and more
especially those who are still more interested
parties, existing in our city and Territory,
flourishing unnoticed, unexposed, but fall-
ing with crushing weight, overwhelming
disaster, irretrievable ruin, on a class of
persons who in every civilized country in
the world enlist the sympathy and generous
disenterested protection of honorable men.
I allude to our young women and the sinis-
ter manner in which a certain class of
adventurers now in our midst retail their
pestiferous romances into their unsuspecting
ears. Now, marriage in the abstract
“is honorable in all,” but what language
can be too severe in reprobating the conduct,
the unmanly practices of those unscrupulous
excrescences of humanity, in seducing
young and guileless girls into most misera-
ble conditions under false pretences? It
has become an every day occurrence for
marriage to be contracted between a young
woman of the Mormon faith and a stranger
of no faith at all,  through his wily repre-
sentations of possessing immense wealth;
“gold and silver mines,” “Government
Bonds,” “money in the Bank of England,”
“Ships on the ocean,” “Carriage and six
horses in the stable,” and all—corresponding
precisely with the novel just read of Prince
Don Humblebug or General Fitzgerald
Thimblerig. She falls, an easy, unconscious,
confiding victim, into his power. She being
virtuous, to enable him to accomplish his
nefarious designs, the marriage ceremony
must be performed. Cash is often borrowed
or stolen to meet the expenses of the occa-
sion; and after the “Honey Moon” is over,
(generally rising and setting beneath the
parental roof of the young bride,) there are
not enough funds on hand to enable him
to purchase a common kitchen table. The
chagrined parents and disappointed daughter
have to make the best of a “bad bargain.”
“He’s your husband,” “I’m his wife,”
settles the question with them for the time
being, for marriage is marriage in all com-
munities. Means are furnished by the
parents for temporary convenience, a room
“fitted up” In the old homestead, and this
farce in bogus “high life” ends in the con-
temptible picture—a husband—lodger.
	The "mine fails," the “ships are lost,”
the cashier of the London Bank “don’t
write,” the carriage and horses are “sold”
to purchase a share in a newly discovered
mine, to be second to the famed “Emma”—
a buggy can be hired for fifty cents an hour
at the expense of the “old folks.” “With- 
out visible” or invisible meanes of support,
loafing in the saloon, at Godbe’s corner, or
in Clinton’s court—waiting for something
to “turn up;” returning to his unreplenished
quarters as night approaches, he adds false-
hood to falsehood to satisfy his expectant
wife and quiet her fears. And where does
this detestable course of deception termi-
nate? In much unhappiness, final abandon-
ment—miserable divorcement. Parents and
maidens of Israel, reflect upon this matter;
at best, "How can two walk together
except they be agreed."
						Prudence.
Salt Lake City, May 31st 1873.


﻿A curious garment trimmed with a band
of feathers of every imaginable color, and
called the Louis XIII vest, is now worn by
ladies in Paris. A minute description is
unnecessary—our fashion belles will doubt-
less parade the article by another season.


﻿MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY’S ARREST.

	The New York World thus reports Miss
Anthony’s account of her voting and her
being arrested therefor:
	Miss Anthony then took the stand and
gave an account of her persecution and
prosecution for casting a vote. The place
at which she registered for dropping that
precious bit of paper was after the fashion of
an Eight avenue polling booth, and a barber
shop into the bargain. She had some sharp
arguments with the enlightened American
citizens who officiated at the registry, and
being led to suppose that her registry would
be ignored, she proposed to have a hold on
the inspectors, and straightway went to a
lawyer for counsel. She found not a “rara-
avis” of his kind, but a lawyer of the old,
old sort. He said, “Why, Miss Anthony,
you show that you know nothing at all of
law. You should pay down a round retain-
ing fee, and then you are all right.” Five
women registered in the Eight Ward of
the city of Rochester, and by their example
fifty others were incited to register in other
wards, though only fourteen out of the
whole voted. When election day came,
fearful of insult, they went early and found
no difficulty in putting their ballots through
the broken pane. The inspector said: "Miss
Anthony, you are challenged; are you ready
to swear?” “Yes," said I, and I forgot my
Quakerism and kissed the Bible. “Do you
swear you are a citizen?” etc., and I swore
(the papers made me swear I was a male
citizen). Then they made me swear that I
had neither bribed nor taken a bribe in this
election; of course I swore that. There
was $1,500 floating around that day, but no
man was challenged,  no man sworn. The
Quaker lady, Mrs. De Garmo, who followed,
was also challenged. She refused to swear,
saying, I will not swear, but I will tell the
truth, if that will answer.” The whole
party voted, and not an insulting word was
spoken. It was said that arrests would be
made, but days passed and none were made.
I began to get afraid they would not arrest
me. But finally Commissioner Storrs,
whose office is in the Arcade, sent word for
me to call at his office.  I sent word to him
that I had no social acquaintance with him
and didn’t wish to call on him. If he
wanted to see me on official business he
must come and see me. Then a young man
in a beaver hat and kid gloves (paid for by
taxes gathered from women) came to see
me. He sat down. He said it was pleasant
weather. He hemmed and hawed and said
Mr. Storrs wanted to see me at the Arcade.
“What for?” I asked. “To arrest you,"
said he. “Is that the way you arrest men?”
“No.” Then I demanded that I should be
arrested properly. My sister desiring to go
with me, he proposed that he should go
ahead and I follow with her.This I re-
fused, and he had to go with me. In the
car he took out his pocket-book to pay fare.
I asked him if he did that in his official
capacity. He said yes; he was obliged to
pay the fare of any criminal he arrested.
Well, that was the first cent’s worth I ever
had from Uncle Sam. A more wilted look-
ing officer of the law cannot be imagined
than he. And Mr. Commissioner Storrs
was not less out of his element. Miss An-
thony read the section of the Constitution
upon which she is arraigned for illegal
voting, and argued that she had not even
violated it.


﻿Mrs. Florence Knox has been engaged to
sing in Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, at a
salary of $2,500 per annum. She is a Michi-
gan lady.


CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.

Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.	        je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
		H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First  
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

Z. C. M. I.
		Retail Dry Goods Department.
	To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
		RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS
either by the yard or piece.
			H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience ,in 
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God- 
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, “P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.


﻿The widow of Hon. Ichabod Washburn,
of Worcester, Massachusetts, has recently
given to Washburn College, at Topeka,
Kansas, $2,000, in addition to a previous
large benefaction of her late husband.
	Miss Susan Willis of Boston has given
$10,000 to Carlton College in Minnesota, to
free its new hall from debt. She is a rela-
tive of Mr. William Carlton for whom
the institution is named, and has often
before given substantial evidence of her
interest in it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 2. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, July 1, 1873.	No. 3.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Terrible scourges in Nashville, Tennes-
see, seem to have polluted the very air; by
which fifty deaths were occasioned in one
day, recently.
	Frank Walworth, the New York par-
ricide, will likely be acquitted, as his
lawyers expect to prove that, he had just
cause for firing on his father.
	Among the late reports of disasters, and
destruction in all portions of the earth, come
those of conflagrations of notable magnitude
in New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
	Chicago is going to have an Exposition
in September, and anticipates a more suc-
cessful affair than that of her late Jubilee;
and even that—she is not to blame for trying
to prove was not altogether a failure.
	A woman’s college is being built in Chi-
cago, the founder of which donated a quarter
of a million of dollars, and very graciously
and appropriately permitted his wife to
assist in the ceremonies of the occasion of
laying the corner stone.
	The Empress Augusta of Germany has
visited Vienna in the place of the Emperor
who, on account of ill health, was unable to
go himself. Her reception is reported to
have been an enviable one, and she doubt-
less did honor to the commission, assigned
her.
	An interesting history of the early
days of Captain Jack, the Modoc Chieftain,
in circulation through some of the news-
papers; in which he is shown to have been
of the desperado character when quite
young. His career as pictured, has been a
crooked one. 
	“Mormon Life in Utah," is one subject
which Mrs. Duniway of Oregon has selected
to lecture upon, in that State.  We are not
informed in what way she treats the subject,
but one thing we can say; if she understands
and tells the truth about it, there is no
worthier theme that could be dwelt upon.
	A local editor in Georgia, thinks one
evidence of the fact that the Negro race
can never be civilized was shown in the
circumstance of a darkey clerk immedi-
ately returning to thoughtful owner, a hun-
dred dollar bank note, which had been over
paid.  In any case, such a representative of
a race, in these days, is not liable to be pro-
moted. 
	In Portland, Maine, and Lowell, Massa-
chusetts, the Young Women’s Christian
Associations have formed the worthy plan
of opening houses as temporary homes for
women who enter those cities as strangers
in search of employment; and in the former
city, some gentlemen have shown timely
generosity  by giving $5,000 to aid the
cause. 
	It is gratifying to note that the subject of
reform in dress is receiving marked and
increasing attention from women of sense in
different parts of the country; and it is to be
hoped that it will be dwelt upon more and
more elaborately until women become so
bold as to assert their independence by dress-
ing comfortably and reasonably, regardless
of fashion.
	Number 46, volume 2 of Mrs. A. J.
Duniway’s pleasant publication, “The New
North West,” Portland, Oregon, comes to
hand hearing date June 20th, after a little
season of vacation and rest. Mrs. Duniway
is a lady of good sense and feeling, who has
done much for the “Woman’s Cause,” and
the reissue of her paper will receive a
hearty welcome from many.
	As might have been anticipated, Judge
Hunt, in the trial of Susan B. Anthony, for
illegal voting at Rochester, New York, gave
the decision that each State and not the
United States, has the power and authority
to judge for its own citizens in relation to
sex and other qualifications. Miss Anthony
is a shrewd woman, does not give up the
chase and at the next general election, will
probably, be allowed to vote as she deserves
to do without molestation.
	If laws prohibiting the free sale and
use of liquors are not to be rigidly enforced
soon, who is to provide for the helpless
wives and children of the constantly increas-
ing numbers of inebriates throughout the
country? The larger portion of 1,791 appli-
cants, who for three months have received
aid of the San Francisco Benevolent Society,
at the cost of $5,347, were of the above
mentioned unfortunates. Is it to be won-
dered at, that wemen seek for means of
self-support, and desire to have a voice in
the establishment of laws by which they
and their children are to be governed?
	According to a late telegram, the New
York Board of Health is busy in enforcing
proper sanitary measures against a probable
visit from the cholera. As the dread dis-
ease hits already commenced its ravaged in
some of the distant cities, the amount of
travel is so great and rapid, it might even
find its way like the Epizootic, to these
mountain valleys. In any case, the example
of New York in taking precautionary
measures for mitigating and preventing as
far as possible, the destructive course of this
and other contagious diseases, might be
followed with advantage by smaller cities,
especially as the hot summer weather has
come, with its power to increase the threat-
ened evil. 
	Dr. Elisha Harris, of New York, avers,
after careful investigation, that eighty per
cent of the criminals of that State are ad-
dicted to intoxicating drinks; in proof of
which, he cites a number of instances where
men naturally kindly and peaceably dis-
posed, have been led, while under the
influence of the liquor fiend, to commit all
sorts of horrible crimes, such as their souls
would revolt from in moments of soberness.
A little serious contemplation upon this
subject, readily evinces that the above state
ment may be, in all probability, correct of
other States as well as New York. In many
cases, intelligent, worthy men, good and
useful citizens yield to the tempting
demon of intemperance until they loose
their self respect and become reckless, hate-
ful tools in the hands of the evil one,
instead of accomplishing the generous,
noble works which might have been theirs
to perform. There is no reform more neces-
sary, and none that could be more productive
of universal good than that which is
being agitated in relation to the sale, and use
of intoxicating drinks.
	The aphorism “Don’t fret, for fretting
will do no good,” though so often repeated
is worth remembering every day. Worry, 
rather than work wears out and breaks down 
more constitutions, perhaps, than any other
ailment. With some, it seems almost una- 
voidable, this constant care and anxiety, 
which is ever to be found in abundance by 
all who will take the trouble to pick it up,
in passing over the rough places in life’s 
pathway, and endeavoring to climb con-
stantly, instead of falling back. But it 
doesn’t pay to form the disagreeable habit
of looking for difficulties, and eyeing them as
through a magnifying glass, as people do in 
many cases, mourning over imaginary woes, 
if they happen to lose sight of the real ones.
It is not profitable to go about seeking for 
some sympathetic ear in which to pour the
petty grievances of every-day life, nor to 
sit morbidly down and sigh over them.
Rather rise above them, though it should
require, at times, an almost superhuman
exertion. It does not evince unconscious-
ness of pain or pleasure, or an insentient 
nature, the throwing off or casting aside, 
the weight of conflicting, discordant cir-
cumstances, which occur in every life, to 
shut out the sunlight of the soul and mar
the peaceful visions of man’s bright hours. 
It betokens a well balanced and powerful
mind, to be able to see the light through 
darkening clouds, and to be hopeful despite
vexatious scenes of trial and discontent,
although great men have sometimes given 
way to worryment and died of grief over 
things for which there was no help.
	A cotemporary speaks of having been 
a careful and interested reader of the Wo-
man’s Exponent for some months past, 
with the object of getting at the “Mormon 
view of the Mormon question,” and learning 
“on what grounds they justify polygamy;” 
yet acknowledges to having “met with very 
little success, as there are only occasional
allusions to their peculiar institution.” Not
being aware that any one, to whom the
system of plurality of wives is so very 
obnoxious as our friendly cotemporary
expresses it as appearing to herself, could
have any desire to study into the mysteries 
or learn, of its justifyable features, the Ex-
ponent has taken but little trouble to give
“first lessons” on the subject; but thinks, 
however, that sufficient has been stated, to 
throw some light upon it, to the mind of 
the careful and interested reader, possessed 
of anything like a comprehensive and un-
biased nature. The object of the Exponent
is the spread of peace and good-will and 
although it holds to every principle of truth
and right, so far as its understanding ex-
tends, the law of Celestial marriage with
the rest it sees no good to be derived from 
dwelling continuously, or often on one
subject, however worthy particularly the
one so much harped upon, and hated by a
majority who refuse to look at it in a proper
or reasonable light.  Enough has been
written concerning polygamy, before the
Exponent existed, that any one desiring to
know the Mormon view of it, need not he
left in the dark for want of works from
which to glean light.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


AT THE SEA OF GALILEE

	BY ELIZA R. SNOW, SALT LAKE CITY.

	I have stood on the shore of the beautiful sea,
	The renowned and immortalized Galilee,
	When t’was wrapp’d in repose, at eventide
	Like a royal queen in her regal pride.

	No sound was astir—not a murmuring wave—
	Not a motion was seen, but the tremulous lave,
	A gentle heave of the water’s crest—
	As the infant breathes on a mother’s breast!

	I thought of the present— the past: it seemed 
	That the silent Sea, with instruction teem’d;
	For often, sndeed, the heart can hear
	What never, in sound has approached the ear, 

	Full oft has silence been richly fraught . 
	With treasures of wisdom, and stores of thought,
	With sacred, heavenly whisperings, too.
	That are sweeter than roses, and honey dew.

	There's a depth in the soul,that's beyond the reach
	Of all earthly sound—of all human speech, 
	A fi er too sacred and pure, to chime
	With the cold, dull music of Earth and Time.

	'Tis the heart’s receptacle, nought can supply,
	But the streams that flow from the fount on high,
	An instinc divine, of immortal worth
	An inherited gift, through primeval birth

	Again, when the shades of night, were gone,
	In the clear bright rays of the morning drawn, 
 	I walked on the bank of this selfsame Sea, 
	Where once, our Redeemer was wont to be.

Where, “Lord save, or I perish.” was Peter’s prayer, 
Befitting the weak and the faithless elsewhere. 
And here while admiring this Scriptural Sea, 
Th’ bold vista of Time, brought th’ past up to me.

Embos’d with events when the Prince of Life.
Endured this world’s hatred—its envy and strife;
When, in Him, the Omnipotent was revealed.
And, by Him, the wide breach of the Lord, was
	healed. 

The gates, He unbarred, and led the way, 
Through the shadow of death, to the courts of day
And "led captivity captive,” when
“He ascended on high, and gave gifts unto men.”  
Damascus, Syria, March 17, 1873.
								F. R. Snow.

				R. S. REPORTS.

	From the 3rd Ward, Provo City, May
28th, 1873:  We, as a Society, are doing
about as well as we know how. We are but
a few in this ward, but are pressing onward
and working for the good cause, assisting
the poor that are among us, and gathering
means together to build us a house, or a
store, and intend to do so as soon as possi-
ble. As fast as I can raise more subscrip-
tions I will forward them.
			Yours respectfully, 
					M, John, Secretary.

					Coalville, Summit Co.
							June 3rd, 1873 
Editor Woman’s Exponnt:—
	Knowing the interest manifested in the
columns of your excellent paper in the pro-
gress, etc., of the various Relief Societies
organized in Utah, perhaps at this late hour
a few items from the Coalville Relief
Society may not he deemed uninteresting
to your readers.
	The Coalville Relief Society was organ-
ized by Bishop W. W. Cluff on the 9th day
of January, 1868, M. A. Walton, President
A.Cluff and J. Boyden, Counselors; K.
Merrill, Secretary and M. Cahoon, Treasurer.
It grew and answered the purposes of its
organization, under the able management
of Sister Walton’s presidency; but owing to
her continued ill health she resigned and
Sarah Wild was appointed to succeed her;
and upon the demise of Sister R, Merril, J.
Boyden was appointed Secretary “pro tem.”
During Sister Wild’s presidency the Society
was successful in relieving those who were
in need, and prospered under her unceasing
labor.  In October in 1872, Sister Wild
resigned, intending to accompany her hus-
band, Bishop Wild, on his mission to
England; and Sister Eliza Rhead was
appointed in her place, whose attention is
unremitting for the benefit of the Society.
	The word “Female,” pursuant to the
counsel given, was detached from the name
of the Society at our Quarterly meeting, held
December last. The following is a brief
statement of the finances of the Society from
the commencement to May 31st, 1873.
	Amount received from donations and
other sources, $1,140:70 amount from work
done gratuitously by members of Society,
sewing, etc., $420:15;  total, $1,660:85.
Amount disbursed to the, sick, etc., and
paid for emigration purposed, $1,310:85;
amount invested in the Co-operative Store,
Railroad  shares, and Millinery Business,
$200; leaving a balance now on hand of $50.
				Respectfully, 
					 J. Boyden, Secretary.
	
				First Ward, Provo City,
					   June 18th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR— 
	I can say that I am thankful to my
Heavenly Father that my name is numbered
with the Latter-day Saints; therefore I wish
to mingle my voice with my sisters in bear-
ing testimony to the truth of this glorious
work.  We live in a very important time;
and the Lord has counted us worthy to he
the daughters, of Zion.  Wherefore let us
endeavor to live our religion.  Let us be
prayerful and obedient to the Priesthood,
and to all the commandments of God. I am
thankful I can truly say that I never have
felt to disregard any Iaw which has been
given, not even polygamy which is con-
sidered so great a trial and has been such to
me as well as many of my sisters. But do
we regret it to day? No! I am thankful
that I am in polygamy and have been for
seventeen years and I hope to gain a salva-
tion in the Celestial Kingdom of God, with
the tried and faithful.  Since the Relief
Societies have been organized, we have
been called to act in responsible places.  I
can say to the credit of my sisters in this,
the First Ward of Provo, that they are doing
well, and are trying to live near the Lord
and are willing to assist in any transaction
by which good may come. The Teachers
are diligent in visiting the sisters, and a
good spirit prevails in our midst.
	I am unable to express my ideas in the
English language as I desire to; true I have
been in these valleys twenty years, but
have improved very slowly.
	Respectfully yours, in the Gospel,
		Caroline. M. Johnson, President.

	Meeting of the young ladies of Ogden
City, June 5th, 1878. Meeting was con-
ducted by Sister Jane S. Richards, President.
Present from Salt Lake City, sisters Pris-
cinda Kimball, Zina D. Young, and L. L.
Greene. Minutes of last meeting were read
by A. M. Frodsham Secretary, and accepted.
	Sister J. S. Richards made a few introduc-
tory remarks. Sister Kimball said, I feel
very much pleased to meet with our young
sisters, and also the older ones. Things are
very different now, to what they were
when I joined this Church.  The young
ladies have a great privilege. To see the
work we could do, to bless the poor, asssist
those that need help and, to become true
mothers. The young may die, the old
must.  Seek knowledge; study good books;
be good to father and mother, help them all
you can; be kind to the little ones, be indus-
trious; keep yourselves tidy and clean.  Set
good examples before the young men; have
nothing to say to one who comes smoking
tobacco.  Be kind and merciful; speak well
of polygamy.  You have a good President,
help her and strengthen her, and may God
bless you.  Sister Zina D. Young said I am
happy to see you all, more so than I can ex-
press.  This is the largest congregation of
young Iadies I ever met with, and I am
pleased to say I do not see the excess of
fashion here I see at home. There are many
subjects of interest.  You are building up
the Kingdom of God—a high and holy call-
ing. If we are obedient to the Gospel, we
have nothing to fear. Be united; be firm
in your purpose. Set your minds against
evil. We came up to see your faces and we
say God bless you. Nothing can compare
with what there is before us. If a friend
tell you of your faults, pay attention. Don’t
be afraid of speaking to each other when
you come together.  Educate yourselves.
Make good use of tine; improve the moments
as they fly.  Be careful of your health:
we want to live on the earth as long as we
can; be sure and fill up your cup of happi-
ness hold your minds like a sheet of white
paper, so the Spirit can write upon them.
May God bless you and help you to fill up
your time in usefulness. Miss L. L. Greene
said:  Sister Zina has said the young ladies
should not be afraid to speak. I think it is
our selves we are afraid of, not each other.
We are in a great school. If we are wise—
with the experience and advantages we
have, we can make the future generation
far ahead of this present one. I pray God
may bless you. Several of the elder sisters
made excellent remarks add a number of
the young ladies rose and expressed their
pleasure and satisfaction with the instruc-
tions they had received. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Met again June 19th. A
large number present all seemed to enjoy
the meeting together. Sixteen more young
ladies joined Society. 
			A. M. Frodsham, Secretary.

	Minutes of the Fifth Annual meeting of
the Relief Society of Farmington, held June
11th, 1873. President Mrs. Holmes presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing “We
thank thee O God for a Prophet:”  Prayer
by Elder Hector Haight; Singing, “Let
those who would be Saints indeed:” Min-
utes of last meeting were read and accepted.
The reports of the Teachers then followed,
showing that all the districts had been
visited and donations received.  Counselor
Mrs. Ortentia Leonard, President of the
Teachers, expressed her satisfaction with the
reports, and thought the Teachers deserved
praise for their diligence.  A statement of
the financial affairs of the Society was then
read which showed that the whole amount
of donations for the year ending June, was
two hundred and thirty-nine dollars and
thirty-three cents; disbursements to the
poor, and donations for public purposes, two
hundred and fifty-five dollars and sixty-
three cents. Two shares on the Co-opera-
tive store, and forty-eight dollars out at
interest, leaving a balance in the Treasury
of one hundred and thirty-one dollars and
ninety-three cents. President Mrs. S. J.
Holmes remarked that she was glad to see
so many present, and as there were visitors
from Bountiful, Mrs. Barlow, President of
the Society in that place, Mother Sessions
and Mrs. Perigreene Sessions, besides some
of the brethren who had favored them with
a visit, she would not take up the time but
would like te hear from them.  Prest. Mrs.
Elizabeth H. Barlow then made a few re-
marks: She was thankful for the privilege


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


of meeting with the sisters in Farmington
and thought it a good plan to visit one
another, for improvement could be gained
by so doing. She touched on the duty of
wives, said they should be co-workers with
their husbands and in speaking of plurality
said we should uphold it before our young.
Her mind was full but she would give way
for others, asking God to bless all interested
in the work of salvation. Mother Sessions,
who is 78 years of age, next addressed the
meeting. She was highly gratified and felt
that a good spirit was there—had been inter-
ested in hearing the minutes read. In
speaking of the Relief Society she said:
“Thanks be to the Lord who has commenced
this work through the instrumentality of
His Elders.” She felt a timidity in rising
to speak, old as she was, but was determined
when called upon to perform every duty.
She gave some good advice to mothers, tell-
ing them they should never say anything
against their husbands before their children,
but strive to be cheerful and always meet
their husbands with a smile, for no man was
likely to withstand a woman’s smile. She
thought plural marriage would prove our
salvation if lived right; one should never
notice failings in other wives, but speak of
all the good they had done, and give credit
when it was due. Mothers should teach
their children the Word of Wisdom for
over six years the speaker had not used tea
or coffee, and her health was good. The
brethren present, Elders Job Welling, Hec-
tor Haight, James Smith and Levi Thornton,
followed with interesting remarks. Brother
Welling said the Society had done well and
its affairs had been judiciously conducted.
He had been edified in hearing sister Ses-
sions and said it was mothers who formed
the minds of children. In speaking of the
Relief Societies, he said so long as they ex-
isted they would lighten the burdens of the
Bishops, and that President Young knew at
the commencement, the good they would
do. Brothers Haight and Smith in their
remarks said one motive they had in coming
to meeting was to get the sisters interested
in the Sunday School, as the future de-
pended on the rising generation. Other
remarks were made, brother Thornton giv-
ing some useful suggestions. President
Mrs. Holmes felt that they ought to be thank-
ful for the visit of their sisters from
Bountiful and gave notice that the Society
would have a pic-nic party to be held at Mrs.
Stuarts, on Friday, the 20th inst., and
invited all to attend. After which, meeting
was adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
and closing prayer by Elder Job Welling.
				A.S. Rogers, Secretary.


﻿Late in Life.—Stewart has made the
greater part of his wealth since he became a
man of advanced years. It is said that
George Peabody made but little until he
had passed fifty. The same may be said of
Stewart. At fifty he was worth about a
million—now he has probably twenty-five
times as much. This is a lesson which
shows the importance of improving the
latter hours in life. Some men retire from
business as age steals on, This is a great
mistake. No men are so unhappy as those
who abandon the habits of a busy life. No
one should retire from trade until he is sure
of some busy employment in another sphere,
Mr. Stewart knows that he is happier while
at the head of his emmense trade than if he
were doing nothing. Men who retire from
business become nervous and fretful, or else
sink into mere fatuity, from having nothing
to do. Work is the thing for old and
young, if they wish to escape these dan-
gers.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Home should be rendered a pleasant place
to the children, that they may not be driven
therefrom to seek pleasure and amusement
elsewhere, and, as a natural consequence,
mingle with the vain, the frivolous, and
even the vicious. Let their chief delight
be found at home, and they will not easily
be led astray. A mother should strive with
never-ceasing energy to instruct their minds
and their hearts; to cultivate their moral
natures, and by kindness, gentleness, and
love, twine their affections about her, and
forever retain them. She can exert a
greater influence over them than any other
being on the earth, and when that influence
is properly directed, it is their greatest safe-
guard in after life, when the days of trial
and temptation shall come, and they can no
longer claim the protection of the parental
roof-tree. Then how great is her respon-
sibility! Immortal souls are intrusted to
her care to be fitted for eternity! Where
pure love is, there can be no evil, for it
touches with a finger of life the germs of
good, and blossoms of purity lift their sweet
faces to kiss the hand of God’s benediction.
Because her life was so full of real goodness
to us, chastened with suffering, and sorrow
and pain, how beautiful and holy are the
sweet and sacred memories of the mother
of our childhod; with what soft, hazy folds
is her image draped in the consecrated niche
in the temple of our fondest memories! Oft
when kneeling in the deepening shadows,
after the nightly thanksgiving for the day’s
blessings has gone up, while waiting in the
wing-swept hush for the up-raised, trustful
petition to bring an answer down, we
remember the soft caressing touch of her
loving hand, as in old, far-away days, when
her knee was the altar from which our
simple prayers were wafted heaven-ward;
and the thoughts that now go out to her,
across the wide abyss of years, are the pure
white wings of a dove, full of music, cleav-
ing the silver and violet clouds of the
morning, for everything that our memory
touches of her life is full of the radiant
beauty of goodness. And it should be the
aim and delight of every mother, to live so
that her beautiful example may be so re-
membered by her children.
	Ventilation.—Opportunity for the in-
gress of pure air, and the egress of that
which is impure, is absolutely requisite in
the construction of every house. Previous
to the introduction of stoves as warming
apparatus for houses, those were moderately
well ventilated by the open grates and fire-
places which they contained. The pure
air, because cold, rushed down the chimney
and becoming warm by passing the fire,
spread through the house, giving life to its
inmates. Through the same opening the
rarified air, being lighter, ascended, and
thus constantant renewal was had. In those
days ventilation was not studied, because no
additional means were needed for it. Ne-
cessity being the mother of invention, where
no necessity existed, means were not
studied, because additional means for it
were not needed. Hence, in those days
ventilation was not discussed; and yet
men and especially women, maintained a
degree of health and vigor and hardiness of
constitution, which are both the marvel and
envy of modern times. Grandmother’s
vigor and personal endowments are still the
desired, but despaired of prize, of modern
ambition. Wherein consists the remarkable
change since then? Whence the dyspepsias,
nervous derangements, female weaknesses,
consumptions, etc., of our time? Through
the closing of fireplaces by the invention of
stoves. By this change in household
arrangments the inmates of our houses have
been largely deprived of the life-giving
oxygen, the vital air of the atmosphere.
Every breath we draw, every lamp that
burns, every fire that warms us, consumes
this air in large quantities; and if it is not
replenished by constant ingress from the
stores of nature, we must grow dull, weak,
pale, inert and finally succumb to death.
And yearly, millions go down to untimely
graves, and the groans of the dying are
constantly heard, as the result of want of
ventilation. It has taken us a long time to
learn this fact; and even now it is imper-
fectly understood. Men who argue for ven-
tilation are considered as fanatics, and the
idea remains new-fangled to many.
	Houses, then, should be properly venti-
lated. If no other means have been pro-
vided, every window should be arranged
with pulleys and fastenings, so as to be
readily lowered from the top and raised from
the bottom. An opening is necessary, part
of the time at least, in all weathers, if the
room is inhabited. There must be a con-
stant change of air, and this cannot be
effected through closed windows or imperv-
ious doors.—"Science of Health.”
	Flower-Garden and Lawn. Box.—
This beautiful edging must be clipped, to
keep it in proper shape, and in August is
the proper time to do it.
	Climbers require to be neatly tied up
to show off to best advantage. A few small
iron brackets screwed to the posts of the
piazza or side of the house, and galvanized
iron-wire stretched between the brackets,
will make very serviceable supports, as they
allow a free circulation of air between the
house and vines.
	Grass.—Edgings and borders, need a good
deal of attention in order to look well, and
if cared for often, will require but little
time. The lawn needs mowing over at least
every week or ten days, in order to make
it look well.


Hon. John A. Bingham, late member of
Congress from Ohio, has been appointed
Minister to Japan, vice De Long, removed.
	An effort is being made in Paris, to intro- 
duce pattern dress goods into market, in
place of the plain fabrics which have ruled
so long.
	A Western exchange hits the fashionable
church-goers quietly and handsomely and
proposes that the seats in the churches be
arranged on pivots, so that the devotional
portion of the congregation who enter the
church at a reasonable hour, may more con-
veniently turn round and examine the 
elaborate toilets and decorations of the late
comers,  whose entry fifteen or twenty
minutes after service has commenced is
apparently designed to be spectacular and
to attract the notice and admiration of the 
audience, in utter disregard of the annoy-
ance it occasions the minister.
	A Blood Spring in Kentucky.—The
Bowling Green (Ky.) “Democrat” says:
“We understand that Mr. Calvin Liles, who
resides in the Three Forks neighborhood,
in this county, has a peculiar well on his
farm. In the spring of the year the water
that runs from the spring looks like blood.
The bloody looking water runs from it twice
a week, but ony for a few moments at
a time. During the fall the bloody water
runs but once a week; and after the disap-
pearance of the bloody hue, the water 
assumes a purplish one, which soon passes
off. The water is said to be very delightful 
to the taste.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City. Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address a business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			
			SALT LAKE CITY, July 1, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	At Colby University, Maine, a young lady
lately won the Sophomore prize for declama-
tions......A lad in Oregon died the other
day from the effects of a pistol shot in his
hand......“Impressions of America and
Americans,” by Miss Emily Faithful are
soon to be published......Housework is pro-
nounced most admirably calculated to pre-
serve a robust woman and to strengthen one
who is weak, by Queen Victoria’s chief
physician......It has been suggested in Lynn
County, Oregon, that every man or company
in the State, engaged in manufacturing from
raw material, be sought out and assisted by
advertizing......Mrs. Margaret Sangster suc-
ceeds Mrs. Mary M. Dodge who has resigned
her position on “Hearth and Home” and
goes abroad for health and recreation.......
Several ocean steamers leaving port, on the
fifty-fourth anniversary of Queen Victoria’s
birthday, were gaily decorated, and the day
was observed as a holiday throughout Eng-
land......Nevada is reported to have had a
phenomenon in the form of black frost......
Madam De Hazard, a Russian sculptress,
sent her three master-pieces, “L’Esperance,”
“Pace Generosa” and “L’Abbandonate” to
Vienna......Six hundred thousand dollars
was the consideration for which the cele-
brated Mono mine recently changed hands.
......Boise City, Idaho, is said to be the “dead-
est” place in the whole country, on Sundays,
on account of the very stringent enactment
of the Sunday liquor law......A New Jersey
farmer made $125 per cow, in a year, selling
milk at five cents a quart......A first class
unsectarian college for women is proposed
in Wilmington, Delaware..........Montana
has about eighteen millions of fertile acres
wanting occupiers.........A New Orleans
policeman got discharged for running
through the street and crying fire without
good cause for doing so......The State of
New Hampshire has sixty-one starch fac-
tories and makes from potatoes alone, three
thousand tons of starch in a year......The
North Pacific Commercial Company of
Puget Sound has gone into bankruptcy......
More hops are raised in Wisconsin than any
other State, and they are generally considered
to be productive of health......A calf born
without a tail is one of the late wonders in
Oregon......A ball was given in Wisconsin to
raise money to start a newspaper......A
pound of peat freshly dug contains fourteen
ounces of water......A good thing is said of
Illinois in that as a rule her best men are sup-
ported solely on their merits as men,
regardless of politics......Two of the “sur-
prises,” of modern history are protested
against by the Rev. Dr. Samuel Osgood—
the eight hour strikes, and woman suffrage...
It is estimated that $350,000 worth of fish are
caught yearly in the vicinity of Sandusky,
Ohio......“Wilful dishonesty” is the polite
charge which one editor makes of another
for copying his editorials and allowing them
to appear as orignal......Six Americans, five
English men, Six Irishmen, three Germans,
two Hollanders and one Belgian are students
at the college of St. Joseph, Mill Hill, Mid-
dlesex, England, to be educated for the
Roman Catholic mission.......Capy saloon
keepers sometimes take their pay for a
drink by being shot......Boston school girls
play foot ball......A treaty of alliance has
been concluded between Germany and Italy.
....Two thousand, two hundred more Chinese
landed at San Francisco one day recently.....
Six thousand acres of tobacc owere grown
in Rock County, Wisconsin, in one season.
Ex-President Thiers is reported to contem-
plate retiring soon to private life......Miss
Fanny Campbell, of Bozeman City, Montana,
has entered 160 acres of land, fulfilled the
conditions of settlement, got her deed and
is farming successfully......Miss Ray of the
same place, raised on her farm, year before
last, 60 acres of wheat......London journey-
men carpenters threaten a general strike for
higher wages......The glorious Fourth is
close at hand and is much talked of in differ-
ent parts of the country......Dutch cattle are
said to be enormous eaters but good milkers.
......A woman in Greeley, Colorado, has set
out 13,000 forest trees......The products of
California now include large quantities of
caster oil and mustard......A man in Illi-
nois counted up the Canada thistles in
that State and found them to cover ten
thousand acres......Mrs. Martha Everett has
been unanimously elected Superintendent
of the First Parish Sunday School at Dover,
Massachusetts......“Matilda,” a squaw who
has figured in the Modoc war, is said to
be a woman of considerable capacity, who
keeps the domicile of her lord, a white man,
as neat and tidy as any woman could......J.
Whang, a Maine farmer thinks the profits of
ten hens equal to that of one cow........Great
quantities of poor American cheese are said
to be sold in England for hog feed.......In
Tulare Co., California, it costs $18 per acre
to prepare land for a vineyard and plant
cuttings.......An agreement has been signed
by a number of ladies in Nashville,
Tennessee, to abstain from wearing any out-
ward adornment, or other than the plainest
sort of apparel on Sunday......A San Fran-
cisco woman was arrested the other morning
for disturbing the peace, afterwards was
herself disturbed by imaginary rats which
came with delirium tremens.......A Lynn Co.,
Missouri farmer, with only the aid of two
sons, raised, in one season, over 10,000
pounds of tobacco, from which he realized
over $800 net profit......The ladies of Fort
Wayne, Indiana, contemplate founding a
home for the friendless in that city......The
anniversary of the death of the great novel-
ist, Dickens, which occcurred three years
ago, was appropriately observed at Boffins’s
Bower, Boston, during the first week in
June.


﻿DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.

	The realities of life; in a great degree, are
such as people incline themselves to meet.
There are both pains and pleasures associated
with all periods, and all circumstances in which
existence may be valued, or endured. Excesses
in every form are dangerous, being the greatest
sources of regret and misery; but temperance
in all things ensures a life of happiness and
success. The different views taken on various
subjects are interesting to the thoughtful ob-
server. A Chicago lady writing on the
“Mormon question” says among other things:
	“A woman of any spirit and self-respect
would rather live in a garret and eat a crust
earned by her own honest toil than to share
the bounty of a millionaire with one, two, or a
dozen other wives. Such a system of marriage
does away with the sacredness and beauty of


the marital relation. Perhaps you will say
that much of it is done away with now—by
unfaithful husbands, whose victims and their
illegitimate children must suffer the bitterest
part of the consequences. Still, we say, if we
can have but one perfect and happy marriage
in ten, let us, by 'all means,' have 'that one;'
and let us raise up and strengthen our weaker
sisters, and encourage them to become self-sup-
porting, so they shall not so easily fall a prey to
man's lust, instead of degrading 'all woman-
hood' and, in fact, the 'whole race,' to the level
of its weakest specimens."
	The writer who penned the foregoing senti-
ments is evidently a sincere laborer in promot-
ing the welfare of her sex; and although we
do not agree with her in those sentiments, we
would discuss them in a spirit of candor and
generosity.
	Polygamy, as believed and practiced by the
Mormons, is very different in its nature from
that which is practiced in other nations at the
present day, and should not be compared with
that of the Eastern countries, when the differ-
ence is clearly understood. As it is often
repeated, the Latter-day Saints teach and live
in polygamy from a consciousness of thus doing
right and promoting the good of mankind. If
any enter into it merely through selfishness
in any form, they violate the sacred rights which
pertain there to.
	Now, a woman with such ideas concern-
ing polygamy as are entertained and expressed
by our Chicago friend, would certainly be most
miserable were she placed in a family "with
one, two, or a dozen other wives." Yet, some of
happiest, sweetest tempered and most intelli-
gent women  of our acquaintance—and we sin-
cerely believe them to be among the most
hopeful and contented ones in the world—are
those who have received for themselves the
light of truth upon the subject of Celestial
marriage and therefore have willingly and joy-
fully embraced it.
	Instead of being "the weakest specimens of
humanity," they must be possessed of the
highest order of human intelligence and cor-
responding virtue to enter into and live happily
in Celestial marriage, which they consider the
only true system for forming marital relations.
These ideas advanced by our contemporary,
demand farther attention than we have space
to give in the present issue; but we may refer
to them again.


THINKING. 

	In home life, social life, business life, however
rsituated, nothing can be of more vast impor-
tance than sound and considerate forethought.
"I didn't think," is the most common excuse
for all the little blunders, and even errors of
greater magnitude. Yet such an apology is, in
reality, none at all. Why do not people think
more attentively than the masses do, thus
sparing themselves the cause, in ninty-nine
cases out of every hundred, of extenuation and
regret? It betokens a weak mind to seem
ever absent in thought; and it is not until the
power of thinking is somewhat cultivated,
that it may be at least partially under control
of the will, that a person becomes agreeable as
a social companion in any connection. Lord
Chesterfield once said: "I would rather be in
the company of a dead man than with an absent
one; for if the dead man affords me no pleasure,
at least he shows me no contempt; whereas the
absent man, very plainly, though silently, tells
me that he does not think me worth his atten-
tion. Besides, an absent man can never make
any observations upon the characters, customs,
and manners of the company. He may be in
the best companies all his lifetime (if they will
admit him), and never become the wiser; we


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


may as well converse with a deaf man as an
absent one. It is, indeed, a practical blunder,
to address ourselves to a man who, we plainly
perceive, neither hears, minds, nor understands
us.” 
	It is a great thing, the foundation of real and
useful education, to be able to think compre-
hensively, upon varied subjects. Mothers and
housewives, particularly, should have their
minds so disciplined that quick and wise
thoughts, about almost everything in nature
may be readily handed out; for children's heads
are ever filled with radiant yet immatured
fancies, which demand intelligent answers to
knotty questions; and household duties—almost
more than any others, must have that close
attention which enables one to contrive, plan,
measure and determine concerning the most
minute items as well as the greater indispensi-
bilities connected with daily living. The most
material knowledge of the world may be ac-
quired by close application and judicious
thinking; but without this, a correct knowledge
of anything is unattainable.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	The headers of the Exponent, noticing a
change in the name of the editor will doubtless
readily infer the cause. For a fortnigth past, or
since the afternoon of the sixteenth of June,
we have been highly favored with felicitations
and congratulations of a warm and agreeable
nature, from kind and affectionate friends on
every hand, on the event of our union in the sacred
bonds of wedlock, with Mr. W. Levi Richards,
whose name we are now content to wear in con-
nection with our old one. Hereafter we shall
be able to give our young lady readers occasional
hints and words of advice on the subject of
matrimony, which we have lately concluded is,
and should be of interest to them all. If the
present issue of the Exponent should seem a
little prosy, we ask the gracious consideration
of our friends, and promise for the future to be,
always on hand and most happy to do our best
to please and gratify them all so far as our
humble abilities will enable us.
	An insane man named Henry Hampton,
committed suicide in the Insane Asylum of
this city one evening recently.
	Madam Anna Bishop has been making
sweet music for the people of this city and
theatre goers have enjoyed a musical treat.
	We are solicited to say that the sisters, in
saving paper rags, are respectfully requested to
see that all rags they send in are perfectly clean
and ready for use.
	To ensure attention to their communica-
tions, correspondents writing to the Exponent
over assumed signatures must make known
their real names to the editor. 
	The Fourth is now but four days distant;
but there seems to be very little preparation
being made for its reception. The fire com-
panies are apparently the only ones who have
ardor enough this season to create a stir.
	“A Constant reader of the Exponent” has
sent us some good ideas in pleasant language;
and we regret that she withholds her name,
thus obliging us, in accordance with established
rules, to withhold her production from publica-
tion.
	Miss M. E. Cook, with a party of students
of the Deseret University, had a very pleasing
out, on the 24th ult., taking an excursion trip
to Ogden, where the young  folks had a fine
frolic, and returned well satisfied with  the
day’s proceedings.
	President Young and party went by rail
from this city to Logan on the 26th ult., where
they held a three days' meeting; by which the
people of Cache County were blest as with a
feast of good things, and all experienced a very
enjoyable time.
	It will be interesting and beneficial to most
school teachers in and near the city, to attend
the normal class which Professor Park kindly
offers to teach gratuituous for the benefit of
teachers who have not had experience, and those
desirous of becoming teachers; commencing
next Monday, the 7th inst., at 9 o’clock a. m.,
at the University buildings.
	Among the truest and most energetic friends
of the "Exponent," we are pleased to mention
Mrs. Ruth Tylor of Beaver City, who will act
as Agent in behalf of the journal for that county;
also our Agent for Weber county, Mrs. A. M.
Frodsham, who is unremitting in her efforts to
promote the welfare of the paper. The "Ex-
ponent" has many aiders and abetters, to whom
we tender our sincere thanks for their kindness
in contributing so liberally and incessantly to
its interests.
	A Company of emigrants, the first of the
season, arrived at this city on the 26th ult.,
being 22 days from Liverpool. Many friends
were at the Utah Central depot, to welcome
the new comers, who appeared full of life and
vigor—very little like the condition in which
the early pioneers to these valleys were wont
to find themselves after months of hardship and
fatigue, crossing the plains with ox teams or on
foot.
	On Wednesday, June 18th, President George
A. Smith and Mr. Thomas W. Jennings, of the
Palestine party, arrived at Evanston where
they were met, warmly welcomed and escorted
home to this city, by President Brigham Young,
Mrs. B. W. Smith and a large party of friends
and relations. Both gentlemen appear to have
been in all respects benefitted by the travels
and experience they have had, yet, are heartily
glad to be at home again among the Latter-day
Saints. President Smith gave some interesting
accounts of portions of his journey, in a dis-
course delivered in the New Tabernacle, on
Sunday, the 22.
	When our last issue went to press, it was
anticipated that ere another fortnight had past
away Sister Eliza R. Snow would again join
her Friends in Utah, after her long and pleasant
journey to Palestine, and back. In this, how-
ever, her numerous friends here can well, bear
with being a little disappointed, when they
realize that she is still enjoying herself while
yet absent from home, visiting among old
friends and relatives, with her brother, in the
States; while again our readers are favored with
fine productions from her pen, and may feel
certain of having the pleasure soon of bidding
her welcome back to Salt Lake.
	Pleasure excursions to the Great Salt
Lake, and steam-boat trips on its broad bosom,
are becoming noted sources of recreation for
general holidays. The Lake possesses good
natural advantages for those who are fond of 
bathing; and with the increase of population, 
wealth and traveling facilities, we anticipate
seeing fine watering places spring up on the
shores of the “great inland sea” where our
citizens, and visitors from abroad, can enjoy,
in the hot summer time, the invigorating even-
ing breeze that blows from off the Lake,
bathing in its buoyant waters, its delightful
scenery, evening promenades, rides on the
beach, and moonlight excursions on the water.


How often a sound night's sleep changes
our feelings towards those who differ from 
us!  And how cautious, after this experi-
ence, should we be in our hasty, ill-digested
denunciations of the conduct and opinions
of others!


THE SEX.
	Mrs. Smith, of the “Inland Monthly,” is
endeavoring to organize a woman’s printing
company in St. Louis.
	The pension agent at Augusta, Me., pays
twelve widows for services rendered by
their husbands in the revolutionary war.
	The Catholic clergy, of Iglan, Moravia,
induced 400 women to sign a petition
against the appointment of a Jewish teacher
at the village public school.
	An orator, speaking of “woman, lovely
woman,” concluded thus: “Depend upon it,
my friends, nothing beats a good wife.”
“I beg your pardon,” said one of his hearers,
“a bad husband does.”
	A woman in Chester interfered with her
brother’s courtship, and begged him to stay
at home in the evenings. He waited until
the evening, when she expected her own
lover, and complied, and she says fraternal
affection is a heartless mockery.
	Miss Francis E. Willard, President of the
Evanston College for Ladies, has received 
an appointment from Governor Beveridge, as
the Commissioner from the State of Illinois
to the “Women’s Centennial Jubilee” to be 
held in Philadelphia, in July, 1876.
	Lady Shelley, who died recently in Eng-
land, was the person who made a copy of
the confidential letter which the duke of
Wellington wrote to Sir John Burgoyne on
the defenseless state of the kingdom, and
sent it to the London “Morning Post.”
	Mrs. Carey, sister of Senator Stewart, has
been appointed postmistress at her native
town in Ohio, with a salary of $2,200. She
presided over the household of Senator
Stewart during the absence of his family in
Europe, and is a very charming and estima-
ble lady—and a widow.
	Miss Fannie H. Richards, late engrossing
Clerk of the Iowa Senate, has accepted a
position on the editorial staff of the State
Printing Company, and is daily engaged in
preparing copy for the fifty papers now sup-
plied with auxiliary sheets by the Des Moines
institution.
	Every noble and every great man is but
a mirror to reflect his mother’s virtues, and
the noblest sentiments that have fended to 
promote our fame, and honor, and glory as
a nation, are but developments of the simple 
but sacred words which first fell from a 
mother’s lips.—“Smith’s Magazine.”
	Mrs. Levi Woodbury, who was a belle in
President Jackson’s day, when her husband
was Secretary of the Navy, spends her sum-
mers with her daughters, at her old home
in Portsmouth, N. H., and may often be 
seen riding on horseback alone in the sub-
urbs of that delightful old town.
	There are women who love solitude and
live in it, who realize the idea that they 
seek no joy but that which flows from the
depth of their own inner beings. Very few
people understand what infinite advantages
exist in solitude, especially for woman. If 
she be married and have children, her
famiy circle is her solitude; if the contrary
be the case, her solitude is absolute, one “in
which she can actually live alone.”
	In 1848 a French woman, who earned her
living by washing, was passing in the
streets of Paris, when a pistol was fired at
M. Thiers. The bullet missed the intended
victim, and lodged in the flesh of the woman.
She is now in her fifty-ninth year, and en-
joys saying to the ex-President, I received
in my arms the bullet which was destined
for you in 1818.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MADE OF KISSES.

			BY A. H. POPE.

	“What are you made of, Maggie, dear?"
		Maggie turns from Rover,
	With the strictest reverence,
		(Just her grandma over),
	In the truest, bluest eyes 
		Back of sunny lashes,
	While the earnest answer comes,
		"Made of dust and ashes."

	"What you made of, Johnny, boy?"
		Boy stands still a minute;
	If there’s any mischief round, 
		He’s the one that’s in it. 
	“I ain’t dirt!” His brown eyes gleam,
		And he archly reaches
	Toward the basket’s winy board, 
		“Guess I’m cream and peaches.” 

	“What you made of Taddie, pet? ” 
		Taddie’s eyes are glowing, 
	Two white bands push back the curis,
		Two white teeth are showing;
	And the smiles, they twinkle round
		Like a band of blisses;
	“Cause they takes ’em, all the time,
		'Spects I's made of kisses.”


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW. 
	Steamer Wisconsin, June 4, 1873. 
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	My Dear Lula:—We are seven days out
from Liverpool—have had smooth sea, and, 
thus far, a very prosperous passage. Our 
steamer affords the best accommodations of
any we have patronized on our tour—the
staterooms are more commodious and the
births and lounges broader and less pent up,
giving sufficient lattitude for an ordinary
sized person, at least, to move. Captain
Freeman is a sociable, cheerful man, ap-
parently much liked by crew and passengers,
and we are as well satisfied as possible with
our home in the midst of the waters. 
	I wrote you last at Hamburg in Germany,
the 16th of May; that evening we took
steamer for London, where we arrived
on the evening of the 18th and put up
at "Cook's Boarding House," Great Rus-
sell Street, where we stopped on our outward
tour, and experienced quite a home-feeling
on our return, especially when joined, as we 
were, in the course of the evening by our
excellent mutual young friend and brother, 
Elder Junius F. Wells. Here President
Smith received a letter from brother Paul
A. Schettler, who parted with us at Berlin
to visit his relatives, and collect genealo-
gies, expecting to join us at this point; 
stating that his old aquaintances gathered
around him in great numbers, and were so 
anxious to hear him converse, that he should
require more time than he had anticipated, 
unless President Smith particularly coun-
seled otherwise. The party now consists of 
President George A. Smith, my brother
Lorenzo Snow, T. W. Jennings and myself
being highly favored with the company of
Emigration Agent, W. C. Staines, who is 
returning from Europe to New York. 
	In London we attended Conference with
the Saints, on Sunday, in the Grand Amphi-
theatre, Holborn, where their meetings 
were held and well attended—President
Carrington remarked that the assemblies in
the afternoon and evening were larger than 
he had seen at any previous Conference.
The Spirit of the Lord was free and power-
ful and the Saints rejoiced much on that
occasion—testimonies were borne of a very
interesting nature, and it is to be hoped that
some seed fell on good ground—suffice it to
say, the Saints had a refreshing time. Here
I met sister Mercy R. Thompson, whom we
left in London on our way East. 
	On the 27th we left for Liverpool, where 
we experienced much kindness from Pres-
dent Carrington who accompanied us from
[new column]
London, and also from brother George F. 
Gibbs, of the Millennial Star office; and on 
the 28th went on board the “Wisconsin."
We now feel that we are on our way home,
although my brother and I anticipate spend-
ing a few days in the Eastern States, with
our relatives. Since abroad, I have neither
had time, nor allowed myself to think very
much of home, except in those seasons of
devotion and holy aspirations, when higest
interests, and dearest objects are ever
present with us! but when I shall be per-
mitted to reach that point, I feel it will
superseed every other in interest.
	Woman’s Exponent, of which I have
received a few numbers, is to me, the best
representative of Utah, for in that I see so
many familiar names, and repeated testi-
monies of the continued energies, and stead-
fastness of many of the mothers and
daughters of Zion, in promoting her welfare;
in which I shall be most happy to rejoice
with them, and reunite my weak efforts in
the great, common, glorious cause.

	We’ve sailed on many an ocean,
		And entered many a port —
	View’d many a princly Palace,
		And many a lordly Court.

	Seen many Marques and Churches,
		And witness'd service there
	And how unlike the Gospel,
		Their modes of worship are.

	How long shall superstition,
		Priestcraft and ign’rance bind 
	In chains our fe'low beings
		And dwarf their powers of mind?
	
	By undisputed tokens.
		His favor’d people know
	That God again has spoken”
		From heav'n, to man below:

	And that the glorious Gospel 
		Meets every mortal need;
	While Truth Eternal triumphs
		O'er every human Creed.

	By faith, and works united, 	
		Through Jesus' blood made free;
	How noble, pure, and Godlike,
		The lives of Saints should be!

	Safe from the fierce destroyer
		That on the water rides;
	And "terra firma" dangers,
		The Lord our pathway guides.
	
	From many a stranger country,
		And many a foreign strand,
	We now are sailing homeward,
		Towards our native land. 
	To those who have an eye to see and a
heart to understand, the hand of God has
been manifest in dispensing blessings
to us as tourists: From calamities and 
dangers by storms at sea in front and 
rear, we have escaped; and without any 
interruption, worth of note either by sea or
land, for which we feel truly grateful. We 
expect but a short stay in New York, which
you will accept as an apology for my writing
as I am doing, trying to make the move-
ments of my pen correspond with the undu-
lating motion of the ship, which is not the
easiest thing imaginable, as you will per-
ceive by my tremulous scribbling.
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿Old Shoe.—Old Shoes have their uses—
a fact which few people realize, as they cast-
off foot covering into the ash-barrel. What
does become of all the boots and shoes?
Many of them are cut into small pieces and
put into chloride of sulphur for a few days.
This makes the leather brittle, and after
it has been washed and thoroughJy dried it
is ground to powder and mixed with a sort
of gum, or glue. It is then pressed into
moulds, and buttons, combs, knife-handles,
and similar articles are the result. So much
for old shoes.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	Watching for good in others, more per-
haps, than anything else, strengthens our
own virtues and lessens our faults; for hav-
ing goodness in our mind, it leaves its im-
press there, and good deeds follow.
	Our labors for Zion will never be lost.
We may reach out after other things which
will pass away and perish; but for whatever
we do for the good of Zion we will not fail
of being rewarded.
	Want of charity for human frailties
betokens narrow-mindedness; a great mind
comprehends how hard it is to be always on
the alert—thinking intelligently, judging
correctly, speaking generously and acting
nobly and wisely.
	According to Professor Fowler, a sensible
woman should be allowed to do just as she
pleases, but she should not want to do every-
thing that a man may, for it is not her
place to do it all, and she is incapable in
many respects if she should want to.
	True joy is a serene and sober motion;
and they are miserably deceived that take
laughing for rejoicing: the seat of it is with-
in, and there is no cheerfulness like the
resolutions of a brave mind, that has fortune
under its feet.
	To many persons it seems a small thing to
sit down and prepare matter for the periodi- 
cal press, but let those inexperienced with
the pen, and whose brains have never been
trained to systematic labor, attempt to
furnish intellectual food and recreation to
their fellows, and they will soon find that
 mental labor is far more destructive to
health than all other toil.
	A curious story of luck on a battlefield is
perfectly authentic. A ball passed straight
through a man’s body, and the man recoverd.
This much is not unparalleled, but there
was something more, highly curious and
lucky. The man was consumptive, and had
formed tubercles. The ball carried away
the tubercles, and the man recovered not
only from the wound, but also from the 
consumption.
	Of all amusements that can possibly be 
imagined for a working man, after daily toil,
or in the intervals, there is nothing like 
reading. It calls for no bodily exertion, of
which the man has had enough—perhaps
too much. It relieves his home of dulness
and sadness. Nay, it accompanies him to
his next day’s work, and gives him some-
thing to think of besides the mere mechanical
drudgery of his everyday occupation—some-
thing he can enjoy while absent, and look
forward to with pleasure.
	Always act on the axiom, that it is better
to have no pictures than poor ones; and that
a realy good thing is worth paying for,
while a poor one is dear at any price. If
you cannot afford a first rate line engraving,
buy a first-rate lithograph; if you cannot
afford a porcelain, buy one of Le blond’s oil
prints. But whatever you buy always keep
in mind to have the best of its class, and
that no one can afford to buy a second-rate
work of art.
	If one is disposed to count the compara-
tive cost of letting children hunt up their
own sources of amusement, and of providing
them with means of occupation, it will be
found that the latter is the more economical
in a monied point of view, to say nothing of
other points in its favor. The waste and de-
struction, the mischief and havoc, that
juveniles, left to themselves, will make,
would, judiciously forestalled, furnish ample
means for their pleasant and profitable recre-
ation, and the forming of habits invaluable
to them in future life.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the Exponent
THE FARMER IS THE KING OF MEN.

	I do not mean the plodding, listless, aim-
less farmer who thinks himself “condemned”
to farming by lack of ability to do anything
else. I think the farmer should have the
best head, heart and frame in the land; and
it arouses my utmost indignation to hear of
a father selecting those he deems most in-
telligent of his sons to be educated for
lawyers, doctors, merchants, etc., and saying
of the one he thinks dull, “He’ll have to 
stay on the farm; he’s not the capacity to
fill a learned profession.”
	Thus they are taught that little intellect
is requisite for a farmer, and if a young
man has any he must seek a broader field
for its display. He thinks the red-handed
butcher of men a hero, but a farmer is
contemptible. I do not mean the farmer
who adopts this opinion and harbors poor
esteem of himself and his occupation, who
goes without animation to his heavy, un-
methodical drudgery. “He” is no king. I
mean the man who chooses to be a farmer 
and makes a fine art of it; who loves to
watch the developments of nature, animate
and inanimate; who loves the smell of the
upturned soil; who takes unalloyed delight
in his substantial barns, stables, paddocks
and their inmates; who breathes the dewy
air of morning or the odor of new-mown
hay with keener relish than he could sip
the wine of revelry or adulation. I mean
the man who has a real paternal love for his
tidy lanes and fences, his billowy expanses
of cereals, his fruit and ornamental trees,
his gravel walks, his commodious buildings,
his thorough-bred stock—his superb horses,
his superior cows and oxen, his fine-wooled
sheep—ah! he is the king of men.
	Full of health and vigor, ready to act his
part in life, thankful to God for all his bless-
ings, he takes large views of life willingly
accords to human and brute all the enjoyment
for which they were created, and never
degenerates into a petty tyrant.
	His gains are not wrung from the scanty
purse of widows and orphans toiling for
him at starvation prices, nor obtained from
the bursting from some speculative bubble
which fills his coffers just in proportion to
the depletion of others.
	None are poorer, but all richer for his
success; because his gains are won from the
still unimpoverished elements and coined in
the mint of Nature with her own divine
impress upon them. He takes no man’s
money without a fair equivalent; by
his labor the world is fed and is also
largely indebted to him for apparel and
luxury. He is the rich foundation on which
the natural superstructure rests; and so long
as this brotherhood is pure, strong, noble,
the combined powers of earth cannot over-
throw that nation.
	He looks up to God, not with guilty fear
but with reverence and love, as to a father
and a friend from whom his most secret
thoughts need not be hidden. He has a
robust body which does not detract from,
but supports his mental superiority. He
cultivates his intellect as assiduously as he
does his fields, and uproots evil habits as in-
dustriously as he does weeds and brambles.
	As grain, standard fruits and other staples
must have his first care in farming, so the
solid acquirements of mind receive first and
best attention; and as he would not be with-
out the variety of fruits and vegetables,
vines and flowers, neither would he pass
over as useless, light and graceful literature,
music and dacing; and while making the
stirling virtue of character his unwavering
aim, he will never neglect the little charm-
[new column]
ing courtesies which make life so sweet.
	Such is my ideal of a man, a gentleman,
“the image of God;” and I would rather be
such a man or the wife of such, than the
proudest monarch thatever sat upon a throne.
And I would teach my son ratther to aim
at such a life as the most blessed under the
sun, than see him eloquent as Cicero and
wealthy as a Rothschild, without this keen
love of nature and all natural excellence,
which are indispensible to the character of
my ideal farmer and king of men. 
							L. L. D.


A WORD ON FASHION.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	We wish to call attention to the subject of
fashion, as there has been but little said
concerning it of late, and as we consider it
one of the most important items pertaining
to the salvation of woman. We would be
pleased to see the serious attention of all,
directed to the “tyranical queen,” that has
so long oppressed and degenerated the
human family. How many kind fathers
and husbands have been involved in debt
through the extravagance and unwise course
of an imprudent family! We often hear it
asked, “What should the fashion be?” We
give the answer of a Prophet, as obtained
from God:   “Let your garments be neat and,
plain and the workmanship of your own
hands.” Mothers, who call yourselves
Christians, who purchase twenty yards of
material for one dress, pay twenty dollars
for trimming and twenty-five or thirty for
making, do you over think of the poor in
every land, putting up their petitions to
their Father, and to your Father and God,
who created all to share in His mercies?
Oh mockery! No more call yourselves fol-
lowers of that meek and lowly Lord, the
Redeemer of the world. Let us question:
Has not one woman, the same right to intro-
duce a fashion that another has? Does not
a woman look more intellectual in a plain
solid colored suit than she does dressd in a
suit part black, part white, green and blue?
We omitted to mention: “red,” which is, of
course, indispensable. Sacred history in-
forms us that God created male and female
erect; and all nations have acknowledged
that any other form than the erect posture
given to them in their natural organization,
is deformity; and historians have admired
the Indians for their upright figures.
Whenever a style of dress is adopted which
will not compress the vital organs during
the development of the body, and the laws
of life are observed in regard to dress, you
will see a decided improvement; and what-
ever improves physically, will add mentally 
to refinement, elegance and strength.


It was “better than a play” what John
Kemble did one night when performing
a favorite part in a country theatre. He
had been interrupted from time to time by
the crying of a child in the gallery. At
length, angered by this rival performance,
Kemble walked with solemn step to the
footlights, and addressing the audience in
his most tragic tones, said, “Ladies and
gentlemen, unless the play is stopped, the
child cannot possibly go on.”


﻿The finger of Galileo is shown under a
glass case in the Florence Museum. It
stands a mysterious-looking bit of parch-
ment, pointing towards heaven. The hand
to which it belonged is supposed to have
been put to the torture by the Inquisition
for ascribing motion to the earth, and
the finger is now worshiped for having
proved the motion.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	Iron, in place of stone, is being used for
memorial tablets over graves.
	In one of the shoe factories, at Lynn,
Mass., a man has used the same bench for
over forty years.
	A boy, aged thirteen years,  committed
suicide by hanging himself in Schuylkill
County, recently.
	In Montevideo, Uruguay, beer is said to
sell for one dollar a glass, while sheep cost
ten cents a piece.
	A flash of lightning singed all the hair
off a man's head in Wisconsin lately, but
otherwise did him no harm. 
	An expert thief, in New Haven, Conn.,
stole a quanty of valuable lace from the dress
of a lady, while in church.  
	The poor taxpayers of New York City
eke out a miserable existance on $1,04,453,-
633 worth of real and personal estate.
	Three-fourths of the women of Boston
dare not sneeze with their mouths open,
owing to their inability, to hold on to their
teeth.
	It is estimated that in Paris more than
2,000 persons of both sexes make their liv-
ing by gathering rags and other refuse in
the streets.
	A young woman from Allegheny, called
at a Pittsburgh book store the other morn-
ing for a "deck of them new posted kerds;
double-headers.”
	A Louisville woman bought a feather
bed the other day and found a shot bag in
it containing four hundred and seventy
dollars in bank notes.
	The price of gold has not declined in the
principal markets of the world, although
the annual product has increased four-fold
within thirty years. 
	Europeans are amusing themselves with
a book, purporting to give the letters the
Grand Duke Alexis received from young
ladies while in this country.
One of the newest rifles submitted to M.
Thiers possesses the advantage that the
cartridges to suit it can be manufactured
even on the field of battle.
	As a gentleman was walking along one of
the streets in Terre Haute, Ind., the other
day, a wild pigeon flew into his face break-
ing its wing and blacking his eye.
	Benjamin D. Emerson accumulated
$250,000 and died at Jamaica Plains, near
Boston. He was for many years a school
teacher, but didn’t save most of his money
at the business.
	Killingly is touched by a recent wed- 
ding, at which the bride wore the beautiful
pink silk stockings which her mother wore
at her own wedding, thirty-five years ago.
	A clock, formerly the property of General
Washington, was disposed of at a sale in
West Philadelphia, recently. The case is
of polished ebony, richly mounted with
ormolu gilt ornaments.
	A Montgomery, Mass., couple in the
neighborhood of seventy-five years of age,
were married the other day at five o’clock
in the morning. The happy old couple took
an early start in order to catch the train
which bore them on their wedding tour.
	A grocer died of small-pox in Washing-
ton the other day, and as no undertaker
could be found to attend the burial, the
widow, being unwilling that the body of
her husband should he conveyed to the
grave in the Board of Health ambulance,
purchased a hearse specials, paying $240
therefor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WHAT NOT.

	Great is the rush for church on Sundays
now—to see the latest fashions.
	When is a lady’s hair like news? When
it is found in the morning papers. 
	“Sam, did you ever see the Catskill Moun-
tains? “No, sah; but I have seen ’em kill
mice.”
	“Are you not afraid that whisky ’ll get
into your head?” asked a stranger of a man
he saw drinking at the bar. “No,” said the
toper, “this liquor’s too weak to climb.”
	An exchange notes that, “in Northwestern
Kansas, there are four men to one woman.”
In New England factories there are often
foremen to one hundred women.
	Billings says: There ain’t ennything
that will kompletely kure lazyness, but I
have known a second wife to hurry it some.
	Subscriber writes to a Western Editor,
“I don’t want your paper any longer.” To 
which the Editor replies: “I wouldn’t
make it any longer if you did; its present
length suits me very well.”
	The kindness of leaving people alone is
one which warm-hearted people find least-
easy to practice; and, in truth, the best
quiet, and completest rest, come with a
sense of kindness waiting, of friends at hand.
when the time is come for them.
	“What’ dis Credit More Biler dat de news-
papers makin’ such a fuss about?” inquired
one darkey of another in the market this
morning. “Dunno," replied the other, “but
I s'pose de gov’ment buildin’ steam-ships,
and wants credit for more bilers dan dey
can get.”
	A lady was engaged in domestic affairs,
when some one rang the street-door bell,
and the servant girl, a Catholic, was bidden
to say her mistress was not at home. She
answered, "Yes, ma’am; and when I con-
fess to the priest shall I confess as your sin
or mine?”
	During an election canvas in Michigan,
a sugeon-dentist was making an excellent
speech in one of the inferior towns. A low
fellow belonging to the other party inter-
rupted him with the question, “What do
you ask to pull a tooth, doctor”? “I will
pull all your teeth for a shilling, and your
nose gratis,” replied the speaker.
	In a Conference Meeting on a recent
Sunday evening, in a Congregational church
not far from Worcester, a colored brother
rose to pray, but before that exercise he
indulged in brief preliminary remarks as
follows: “Brethren and sisters, it don’t do
me a bit of good to hear any of you speak or
pray; I feel as though I must do it for my-
self, for you know, as our Lord an Saviour
Jesus Christ said, ‘Every tub must stand
upon its own bottom!’”
	Their Hearts.—During the late civil
war it was considered necessary in Cynthi-
ana to keep a few soldiers at that place.
One night two of them strayed into the
church of the colored people just as the
minister was concluding an invitation to
any one who was inclined to “come and join
the church.” After he had finished, these
two soldiers got up, walked forward, and
presented themselves for admission; where-
upon the preacher said: “Breddren, dis is
a cullud church, an’ I dunno as I’s any
'thority to take in white folks.” At this
point an elderly uncle rose in the congrega-
tion, and ejaculated: “Take ’em in, Brud-
der Jilson, take ’em in; dar skins is white,
dat’s fact, but dar hearts is jis as black as
our’n, suah.”


FLOWERS. 

	A man that hoards riches and enjoys
them not, is like an ass that carries gold
and eats thistles.
	Neither death nor life is as serious as
marriage. Yet nothing is entered into
more thoughtlessly. 
	Value the friendship of him who stands
by you in a storm; swarms of insects will-
surround you in sunshine.
	To be humble to superiors is duty; to
equals, is courtesy; to inferiors, is nobleness;
and to all, safety; it being a virtue that, for
all her lowliness, commandeth the soul it
stoops to.
	Man is the victim of discontent. He
either looks for happiness in his recollections
of the past, or seeks it in the brilliant visions,
which his fancy has created of futurity;
whereas the present should be the moment
of enjoyment and preparation for the future.
	“When a stranger treats me with want
of respect” said a poor philosopher, “I com-
fort myself with the reflection that it is not 
myself that he slights, but my old and shab-
by hat and cloak, which, to say the truth,
have no particular claim to adoration. So,
if my hat and cloak choose to fret about it,
let them, but it’s nothing to me.”
	Kind words are the bright flowers of
earth’s existance; they make a very para-
dise of the humblest home the world can
show. Use them, and especially around
the fire side circle. They are jewels beyond
price, and more precious to heal the
wounded heart and make the weighed down
spirits more glad than all other blessings the
world can give.
	It is worth noting that civility has always
had luck as an ally. There is a story told
of some gentleman, who, on a battlefield,
happening to bow with much grace to some
officer who addressed him, a cannon ball
just went through his hair, and took off the
head of another one. The officer, when he
saw his marvelous escape, justly observed
that man lost nothing by politeness.
	LOCKE was once asked how he had con-
trived to accumulate a mind of knowledge
so rich, deep and extensive. He replied,
that he attributed what little he knew, to
his not having been ashamed to ask for in-
formation, and to the rule he had adopted,
of conversing with all descriptions of men
on those topics, chiefly, that formed their
own peculiar professions or pursuits.
	You cannot subdue selfishness without a
struggle. You cannot restrain pride with-
out a conflict. You cannot go through life
without bearing burdens. But you are
going to have help under circumstances that
will redeem you from these things. You
are going to experience more victories than
defeats. Your sufferings will be only here
and there little spots in a whole field of
peace and joy.


﻿Horace Greeley remarks a follows upon
fame and his epitaph in his “Recollections
of a Busy life;” Fame is a vapor; popularity
an accident; riches take wings, the only
earthly certainty is oblivion. And yet I
cherish the hope that the journal I projected
and established will live and flourish long
after I shall have mouldered into forgotten
dust, being guided by a larger wisdom,
a more unerring sagacity to discern the
right, though not by a more unfaltering
readiness to embrace and defend it at what-
ever personal cost; and that the stone that
covers my ashes may bear to future ages the
still intelligible inscription: “Founder of
the New York Tribune.”


﻿How well society drills us!—that we
meet with such calm impassiveness, in its
routine, those with whom we have sorrowed,
joyed, loved, and hated, in such different
scenes.—“Oiuda.”


CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je 15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
	H. DINWOODEY 
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City.”
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 2.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, July 15, 1873.	NO. 4.


EDITORIAL NOTES
	New York talks of having a State Park,
in the Adirondack district, to cover 834,000
acres of ground.
	The Present date is the third anniver-
sary of the day in which Napoleon declared
war against Prussia.
	The health of Vice-President Wilson
is reported to be in bad condition, he having
become a paralytic invalid.
	The earth has been shaking at Buffalo,
making three alarming attempts at a quake
within four and a half hours.
	The cholera plague has abated in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, and late reports represent
the city as being in a healthy condition.
	The Fairbanks, now worth $3,000,000,
borrowed five dollars to make their first
scale. Few young men could get a "respect-
able," dinner with such a beginning now-a-
days.
	Full Grown frogs are reported to have
been rained down in Columbia, S. C., the
other day. Are the plagues of Egypt to
visit our country with all the other novel-
ties?
	Unprecedented rain storms are re-
ported in Illinois, Ohio and Indiana, great
damages having been sustained thereby,
with much loss of grain crops, buildings,
fences and stock.
	Boston has been sensationalized by a
little perfomance of a wife shooter, who
acted the part he had chosen without a
hitch, shooting his poor victim dead and
afterward repeating the dreadful action on
himself.
	Pioche came near being disinhabited a
few mornings ago; an intoxicated desperado
taking the job in hand, shot four men to be-
gin with, and would probably have finished
the work but for the interference of the
police.
	Much excitement has been awakened
among the eaters of pork in Calhoun county,
Illinois, where hog cholera morbus is killing
off promising pigs. They don't relish Jew
custom in so great a degree as their better
senses compel them to adopt.
	Tornadoes and conflagrations, reports
of which crowd the daily newspapers, con-
tinue in all portions of the country. The
judgments of the Lord are being poured out
upon the nations of the earth, but they
realize it not and acknowledge not His
hand.
	It is reported of Nilsson, the sweet song-
stress, that since her marriage, her voice
has gained in volume, evenness and rich-
ness. We have heard of matrimony with
its varying scenes having improved the
voice of other women, where their husbands
were neither flattered nor pleased by the
change.
	Eugene City, Oregon lost six thousand
dollars worth of logs, carried away by high
water, while fifty-five thousand dollar's
worth of property was burning up at Birch
Hill, Providence; a little mixing of such
matters would be to the point some times,
if they could but be brought to work in the
proper manner.
	Eugenie, late Empress of France, fondly
entertains the belief that her country will
again be first among nations; that Roman
robbery will be defeated, the Pope and
peace and prosperity restored. Eugenie is
happy in building her air castles.
	The late Hon. Horace F. Clark, who
died on the 19th of June in New York,
besides being a large railroad proprietor and
a distinguished lawyer, was son-in-law to
the rich old Comodore Vanderbilt, whose
wealth he would have inherited had the
old Comodore but have gone first. He
was in the fifty-eight year of his age, a sound
thinker and reasoner.
	In Siam there are some restrictions placed
upon men who are polygamists. They can
only cast away first wives by divorcement;
but any other wife after, they can sell or
trade if they choose. Had the polygamic
wives of Latter-day Saints similar injustice
to contend with, outside lookers-on might
well prate, or be rendered speechless from
sympathetic disgust.
	Another ship wreck occurred on Satur-
day, the 5th, inst., on the Western coast.
It was the steamer "Washington." This
time there is little related of that horrifying
nature which generally accompanies accounts
of such disasters; of five hundred and nine
passengers, who were on the ship, together
with the Captain, officers and crew, not one
life is reported lost.
	Recently at a free public reading room
in England, the wife of Fawcett, the dis-
tinguished professor and writer on political
economy, was requested to leave the room
as it was not intended for women. Mrs.
Fawcett pluckily carried the case to the
head commissioners on public libraries, and
won the day, as she had a right to do. The
company was informed that women have a
right to the use of free libraries and public
reading rooms.
	The Indian question does not appear to
be approximating very rapidly towards an
answerable point. Fresh disturbances and
dissatisfaction are being constantly strirred
up among them, chiefly through the dis-
honesty and unfairness with which they are
met by unprincipled white men, whose
treatment towards them, whenever circum-
stances will admit, shows that they are far
inferior to the Indians whom they despise;
and as such they should be dealt with by
honorable men.
	Fifty or one hundred pounds have been
offered by an enquiring Englishman, toward
the completion of a telescope that shall be
powerful enough to discover human beings
—if they exist—in any of the spheres. The
ascertaining of such truths would be de-
cidedly interesting. But would it not be
too discomifitting to many of the surplus
carpet baggers, who prowl about in quest of
prey, if no means should be dicovered by
which they might immigrate thither to find
fault with the laws and obtain paying offices?
	The Walworth murder case assumes
strange and uncertain aspects. A friend of
Mrs. Walworth ventures to admit that
Frank has been guilty of “faulty logic;” and
Mrs. Julia H. Holmes writes thus concern-
ing the affair: "The intimate friend and
confidant of Mrs. Ellen Hardin Walworth,
I know the terrible facts which led to this
fearful tragedy—facts which I shrink from
revealing, out of regard for her delicate
reserve—facts so appalling and unendurable
they must make a perfect revision in public
sentiment when they come to be divulged
(as they must in the course of the trial.)"
	Civilization, where it passes such
brutal conduct with so slight attention as
the following telegram indicates, becomes
an abomination: A Chinaman employed on
a ranch about six miles north of Stockton
was yesterday subjected to most inhuman
treatment at the hands of his employer, by
whom he was accused of stealing $400; and
to extort a confession the rancher hung him
several times to the limb of a tree, and beat
him nearly to death notwithstanding the
victim's protestation of innocence. The
perpetrator of the outrage was subsequently
arrested on a charge of assault and battery
and fined twenty dollars.
	An interesting account is given by an
Oneida journal of a young Russian woman
by the name of Catherine Dickhova, who
has lately come to America. It describes
her as being higly educated and talented
though not yet twenty-one.  At the age of
sixteen she graduated with high honors at
Kasan and received the badge of her Em-
press, being one of four women who alone
have won such distinction in forty years;
this gives her the privilege of appealing to
the Emperor for any favor, and also of
attending court balls. There being no
schools in Russia where she could pursue
the higher branches of education, and being
unsatisfied with what she had received, she
employed private tutors for four years and
was then examined by the faculty of Moscow.
A poetess, novelist and correspondent of a
monthly journal published at St. Petersburg,
she has come to this country to study the
Womans movement and examine the medical
colleges for women, with the view of assist-
ing those of her own country. She is the
daughter of a General of Artillery in St.
Petersburg, her mother being a princess.
	Nearly all the leading men of Spring-
field, Massachusetts, have signed a petition
asking a young lady teacher in one of the
public schools to become a candidate for
County Superintendent of schools, to which
position she is eligible under a recent law.
Women are already being asked to occupy
responsible positions; by and by they will
have the liberty to do as much hard work
of any kind as they choose; and with the
present increasing frequencies of one ex-
treme following another, it is not altogether
inconsistent to contemplate, that after a time,
they will not only be permitted but required
to do much work of a laborious nature which
has hitherto been performed by men; and it
is not impossible, if the depravity of the
present generation should continue to in-
crease, for American men to become as great
tyrants and their women as helpless slaves
as those of China or Hindostan. Yet with
the advantages which the American woman
possesses for gaining enlightenment, such a
course of events need hardly be feared for
her daughters a few generations hence. But
the prospects of revolutions fast approaching
are forewarners which will bear noting with
due consideration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TOIL ON.

TO THE TEACHERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Toil on, toil on, co-workers here,
	Though your lot be in the lowliest sphere;
	Toil on, toil on, though your task be hard,
	Let the end and aim be heavenward.

	Toil on, toil on, with heart and mind,
	Feet to the weary, eyes to the blind;
	Seeking fresh courage to impart,
	Searching the depths of the human heart

	Toil on, toil on ye cannot tell.
	The many souls ye may win from hell,
	Lead from the depths of darkness and night,
	To a wor'd of everlasting light.

	Toil on, toil on, doubt not, nor fear,
	Speak words of comfort, sweet words of cheer;
	Scatter abroad the precious seed,
	That touches the heart, in its greatest need

	Toil on, toil on, let each passing day,
	Its record bear of its happy sway 
	O’er the young, in teaching the true aim of life. 
	How to live maiden, mother and wife.

	Toil on, toil on, ye shall yet be strong;
	To gather the good, as ye pass along,
	Rich stores of knowledge, wise forethought,
	That poets have sung, and sages have taught.

	Toil on, toil on, 'till your tasks are oer,
	And earth greets your weary steps no more.
	And a radiance effulgent gleams from on high,
	O,er the earth worn spirit, and death dim'd eye;

	And heavenly messengers ear away.
	The spirit freed from its casket of clay,
	To a world where the shadow of death is unknown,
	Nearer, yet nearer, our Father's throne

	There to take up the endless chain,
	With sorrow no more, nor toil nor pain,
	No more of earth's battle, nor care, nor strife,
	Learning pure systems of heavenly life. 
										A. B.S.
Beaver City.


R. S. REPORTS.

    Information from the Richfield Relief Soci-
ety, which was organized on the 4th of
January, 1872, with Mette C. Peterson as
President, Eliza A. Ogelvie, and Annie
Hanson Counselors, Annie B. Nielson Sec-
retary, Berta S. Hanson Treasurer. These
sisters have all acted and do still act in their
respective places. We have contributed for
the emigration of the poor from Europe $70,
to the poor at home, $34; have in the Co-op-
erative store, $30, and in the Treasury $36.
Which is a fair indication, we think, that
the sisters in general are alive to the inter-
ests of the Kingdom of God. We have
monthly meetings which are well attended
and the sisters, with few exceptions, are
taking an active part in aiding the progress
of the Society, which with late additions
numbers over 100 members. Wishing the
success of every good enterprise, including
the valuable WOMAN'S EXPONENT, we re-
main
	Respectfully your sisters in the Gospel,
		METTE C. PETERSON, President
		ANNIE BENNEDICT NIELSON Secretary.

    Minutes of the 60th meeting of the Senior
and Junior C. R. A., held June 21st, 1873,
at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt
Lake City: Meeting opened by singing “On
the mountian tops appearing,” etc. Prayer
by Counselor Zina D. Young. Singing “Do
what is right,” etc. Minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted, also
minutes of meetings of the 8th and 11
Wards were read. Remarks by President
Mrs. M. I. Horne, in which she observed that
“in speaking we should speak slowly so that
the Secretary can get what is said accur-
ately. When counsel is advanced each one
ought to receive it, and not depend upon
others for that which is given to be done.
Very little is being done in relation to our girls
learning to be printers. Young ladies can
receive higher remuneration at some other
employment than printing  that work is
not sought after. The subject of medicine
and nursing the sick may still be made in-
teresting and profitable. My daughter is
recovering from a very severe attack of
erysipelas. I applied cranberry poultices
to the parts that were affected where I
could, and where I could not I washed the
places with the liquor; for a purgative, gave
rhubarb and magnesia, and for drinks,
cream of tartar and toast-water. For in-
flammatory rheumatism, brown some poke
root and apply it with whisky.” Mrs. P. L.
Kimball said the subject of doctoring and
nursing the sick was highly important.
She had had much experience in nursing the
sick, considered that faith and works should
go together. When a girl she had the inflam-
matory rheumatism and her mother cured
her with cedar oil. “For erysipelas, to drink
mountain sage tea is an excellent thing; it
purifies the blood. I am pleased that this
subjet has been agitated. May God bless
and comfort us and save our children from
destruction is my prayer in the name of
Jesus.” Mrs. Higbee was thankful to
meet with the sisters; had been absent for
some time, having been sick, and among the
sick; had been visiting the sisters in Ogden
and Evanston, who attend to their sick them-
selves and do not employ doctors, which
was praiseworthy. If mothers wish to pre-
serve their children they should not expose
their arms and chests as so many do. They
should teach their children righteousness.
Prayed that every Latter-day Saint might
live faithfully and be prepared for that
which was to come. Mrs. Walker made
some very good remarks. President Mrs.
Horne said that in as much as they had a
subject she would like the sisters to cofine
themselves to it as much as possible. Mrs.
E. J. Pratt said her experience in relation to
sickness had been limited in comparison to
that of many others. When entering a sick
room, they should be self-possessed; all fevers
are brought on by colds. The best cure for
yellow fever is castor oil and brandy toddy.
For consumption, one ounce of flax seed and
one ounce of bone set boiled in one quart of
water; strain it and add one pint of molasses
and one quarter of a pound of sugar. Take
one table spoonful three times a day. Tea
made from strawberry leaves, and mutton
broth is excellent for dysentery. Another
remedy for consumption is to make rye
mush without salt and eat for evening meal.
For inflammation in the eyes apply corn-
meal poultices. Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball read a select article on hygiene. The
same subject to be continued next meeting.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Singing
“The time is far spent,” etc. Benediction
by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard.
				M. M. GROO, Secretary.

	We received from Hyrum, Cache Co., the
following, under date June 21st, 1873. Dear
Sister: Knowing your desire for the well-
fare and interest of the Relief Societies, I
take pleasure in letting you know how we
are moving. At our annual meeting which
took place in May, we had a very good
time and were blessed with good instruc-
tion from our Bishop and Elder G. P. Ward,
upon the duties and blessings of our calling.
The sermon of President Young to the
Relief Societies was read by the Secretary;
also the Report of the Society for the past
year which was very satisfactory. Our in-
come was $116:60, and this amount has been
given for the emigration of the poor from
the Old World, and to the sick and poor at
home; also $40 for a Sunday School library.
And since our meeting we have given $44
to the P. E. Fund which will be accounted
for on our books the ensuing year. Our
Society has been and is a great blessing to
us, and none but those engaged in the good
work can realize its value. Your valuable
paper is a great help to us in our labors. In-
closed please find the cash, and list of sub-
scribers for a club for the second volume of
the EXPONENT. This club is composed of
our Scandinavian sisters, and we propose to
meet once a week and learn to read the
English language. Wishing you every
prosperity and success I remain your sister
in the Gospel,
	CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President.

	The Relief Society of Moroni reports as
follows; June, 1873:
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	DEAR SISTER:—The EXPONENT has but
lately been circulated in Moroni, therefore
we are rather late in sending you a report of
our Society. However, we are improving
and hope, by the blessings of the Lord, to
always be found willing to assist in any good
undertaking. The word “Female” has been
omitted from our Society by a unanimous
vote. The EXPONENT is a very valuable
little paper, and we pray heaven to bless
its Editor and all who seek to promote the
cause of truth.
			Your sister,
			      JANE BAILY, President.

	From Heber City, June 29th, sisters Ellen
Lee and Melissa Reynolds, clerks of the
Society, write as follows: On Thursday,
the 5th of June, we held our annual meet-
ing, in the Society hall. Meeting opened
by singing and prayer. The minutes of the
preceding meeting were read and accepted;
the financial reports for the year were then
read by the Secretary, showing that the
means collected had been faithfully and
honestly disbursed. Bishop Hatch being
present made some very excellent remarks
on our duties and privileges and the im-
portance of our being united, looking after
the wants of the poor, etc.  Brother Thomas
Giles addressed the meeting, said he was
pleased with the reports of the Society.
There was a goodly number present and all
seemed to enjoy a good feeling. The sisters
meet once a month to sew and do other
kinds of work. We want to be truly de-
nominated “Working bees in the Hive of
Deseret.”

	Minutes of the 61st meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt
Lake City, July 5th, 1873. President Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding, moved that as Mrs.
M. M. Groo was prevented from attending
the meeting by sickness, Mrs. L. Greene
Richards be appointed Secretary pro tem:
Carried. Singing, “May we who know the
joyful sound.” Prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard: Singing "Our God we
raise to thee." Minutes of the last meeting
were read and accepted. Secretaries of
Junior Associations read minutes of meet-
ings held in the 10th and 11th Wards. Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne said that judging
from their countenances she thought her
sisters felt well. The subjects which had
been dwelt upon in some of the late meet-
ings were still before them and still interest-
ing and unexhausted; but as sister Mercy R.
Thompson, who had lately returned from
Europe, was present, also sister Amanda
Smith, who had been absent from the meet-
ings for some time, she would like to hear
them and others speak as they might be


led. Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young was
always happy to meet with her sisters;
whenever circumstances prevented, she felt
she lost a chapter well worth reading. All
could not be measured by the same rule,
some could get their best sleep and rest in
the morning, others found it best to rise
early and take the fresh morning air.
Health should be considered in preference
to other matters. Bread made from Graham
flour was best for common use. This bread
should never be kneaded, but stirred with a
spoon; was better for having a little molasses
put into it. Mrs. M. R. Thompson rejoiced
that she was permitted to meet again with
her dear sisters; while she had been absent
from them in body, her thoughts had been
often with them; for the protection of God,
which had been constantly with her, she
attributed much to the prayers of her friends
at Salt Lake, for which she thanked them
and glorified Him. The Saints in England
she found a kind, warm and affectionate
people, had the privilege of crossing the
ocean in company with some of them; could
see the hand of the Lord made mani-
fest in the blessings poured out upon her
daughter while she had been gone, in an-
swer to her secret prayers; the very things
she had asked of Him had been granted.
She asked the Lord to bless the Saints who
had lately come to Zion, she had been
blessed in their society. Mrs. Amanda
Smith could say truly that the present was
a glorious day for the Saints. She regretted
that there was so much sickness among
them, and that sending for doctors had
become so prevalent. It was best to send
for the elders first She related an incident
in which her son was thrown from a horse,
his head badly injured so that it was con-
sidered hopeless that he should ever recover
his senses if his life were spared. She could
not endure the thought of her son's being an
imbicile all his life; bathed him and made
everything about him clean and sweet that
the angels might come and visit him; called
in as many elders as could kneel around the
bed and they all laid their hands on him
and prayed one after another; when awake
the boy raved and would not allow an elder to
approach him, but they came and adminis-
tered while he slept, and he did not awaken
until the following morning, when his senses
were clear and bright as ever, and he was
soon entirely recovered. The speaker re-
lated several other instances in which the
power of God had been made manifest
through faith, showing that washing and
anointing, administration and simple medi-
cines, such as the Lord will reveal to those
who trust Him, are preferable to the treatment
of doctors. For a bad case of canker, to wash
with a swab and wash of golden seal, bayebrry
and sage. Mothers in Israel would be held
accountable in that they allowed their
daughters to flounce and flirt and dress over
much like vain women of the world.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young remarked that after a
swab had been once used to wash a sore
mouth it should be thrown away and not
put again into the wash. Mrs. M. I. Horne
said she always had a cup of clean water and
washed a swab thoroughly after using it.
She felt that whatever was necessary would
be given to those who sought wisdom of
God. Canker was a poison, it often required
the use of one poison to cure another; for
diptheria, to swab the mouth and throat
with verdigris and water she had proven a
certain cure when life had been almost de-
spaired of. Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kimball
was gratified to see Sister Thompson safe
with her friends again, was witness to the
restoration of her daughter's health; was
impressed with what sister Smith had said.
Many children of the Saints did not manifest
that faith which their parents had known;
why was it that good seed did not at all
times bring forth good fruit? Mrs. Mar-
garet P. Young bore testimony to the gift
and power of faith, its potency in healing
the sick. Mrs. Wilmarth East, and Mrs.
Clark from Farmington made remarks. Pres-
ident M. I. Horne said as sister E. R. Snow
would likely be present at our next meeting,
and all would wish to listen to her, no sub-
ject would be chosen. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Singing "Praise God from
whom all blessings flow." Benediction by
Mrs. E. J. Pratt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Mrs. A. R. R., writing to the “Rural
New Yorker," adheres to the time-honored
custom of washing on Mondays and gives
the following in its favor, in opposition to
the words of a correspondent of the same
paper, who does not believe in the practice:
	“If we keep the Sabbath, does it imply
that we must have confusion on the day
following? Do we sin in practicing those
habits of neatness and order on the Sabbath
which we follow through the week? Is it
any greater sin to return clothing, books,
etc., to their proper places after using, than
to throw them on beds, chairs, or the floor
to be picked up on Monday? Is it any
more labor, when we remove soiled clothing
to throw them in a tub of water to soak, than
it is to, hide them away in closets, under the
bed or in some other place out of sight, to be
searched for on Monday? Why have picked-
up dinners? It is no great task to prepare
food on Saturday enough to last two or
three days; or a picked-up dinner, even,
would not be so bad, with cheerful hearts
and pleasant words; for “better is a dinner
of herbs and love therewith, than a stalled
ox eaten with hatred.”
	Surely if we have kept the Sabbath as a
day of rest and holiness we should rise on
the following morning refreshed and with
enough of the spirit of the Sabbath to carry
us through one day, at least, without cross
words or looks; and as to those garments to
be finished, why they should have been
done the week before, or must be left until
the next wash. Many people seem to think
because they have a hard day’s work on
hand, they have also a free license to be
cross and fretful, and keep themselves and
the whole family in a state of mind which
is much more wearing to the constitution
than the labor they perform. 
	In well regulated homes, the house should
be in good order on Monday, the washing
done in the fore noon, or begun at least,
without the labor of looking through the
house for dirty clothes. We have for years
made it a rule to do no more washing in a
day than can be done in a forenoon, always
aiming to have the hair combed, and all in
order for dinner; and then a few hours all
to ourselves afterwards, or a pleasant ride
perhaps. If the week’s wash cannot be all
done in that time, or there are young chil-
dren whose clothes should be washed
oftener, we have two wash days, say on
Monday and Thursday—and we enjoy those
days as well as any of the seven; yes, and
when there are children around they enjoy
it, too, to wear old clothes, to play wash in a
basin of foaming suds, and not be scolded
for it. It is with us a never-to-be-dreaded
day. This does not apply to women who
have no conveniences for washing.”
	For burns or scalds apply immediately a
soft rag or lint saturated with strong spirits
of camphor, and keep it wet for an hour.
You will be surprised at the relief it affords.
[new column]
Another remedy, giving immediate relief
and healing quickly is to make a poultice of
boiling milk thickened with wheat flour,
spread on a cloth, pour over a little castor
oil and apply warm. For a bad burn or
scald, change often. 
	When wearied with work of mind and
body, a little pleasantry is often conducive
to health and cheerfulness. The following
examples for games are generally certain to
create innocent mirth.
	“The Bouquet."—Each player chooses a
flower, the name of which she secretly con-
fides to the leader of the game, who writes
them all down upon a card. She then turns
to her right-hand neighbor, saying, “I have
a bouquet, composed of such and such
flowers (naming them); which one will you
select, and what use will you make of it?”
Her companions, one after another, choose a
flower, and state what they will do with it.
When all have done this, the leader of the
game declares aloud the persons by whom
each flower is personated.
	Example. “Ladies and gentlemen: I
have here a charming bouquet, composed of
a bunch of violets, a white camelia, a damask
rose, a sprig of jessamine, a pink rosebud, a
brown imperial, a branch of hops, a yellow
dahlia, a blue campanula, and a Scotch thistle.
Which flower will you select, and what will
you do with it?”
A Lady.—. choose the damask rose, and
will wear it in my hair. 
A Gentleman.—And I the bunch of
violets, and will put them in a vase on my
table.
When the round of the company has
been thus made, the leader reveals the
names of those personating the different
flowers, by saying—
	“The damask rose is Mr.---, whom you,
Miss---, have chosen to wear in your hair.
The bunch of violets is Miss---, who is to
be placed in a vase on Mr---’s table,” etc.
etc.
	The Weathercocks.—The four corners
of the room are named after the four car-
dinal points, viz., North, South, East, and
West. The leader of the game takes the
part of Eolus, or the Wind, and stands in
the centre of the room; the other players
ranging themselves in one or more files.
The game begins by Eolus pointing to one
of the points from which the wind is sup-
posed to blow, at the same time calling out
its name, to which the other players must
respond by immediately turning in the
“opposite” direction. For instance, if the
wind cries “North,” the “Weathercocks”
must turn to the south, and so on. At the
word “Tempest,” every one must turn
around three times, returning afterwards
precisely to their former position. At the
word “variable,” they must “balance” back-
wards and forwards until the wind adds the
name of one of the cardinal points, “West” 
for instance, when they must “slowly” turn
to the east, instead of, as before, whirling
rapidly in the direction opposite to the one
indicated. When the wind names a point
“facing the one then occupied by the
weathercocks, instead of obeying its com-
mands they remain motionless. Any mis-
take is, of course, punished by the payment
of a forfeit.


A MISS Swift of Troy, New York, lately
eloped with a negro. That was rather too
swift for a white woman; she should have
been checked.
    BEES HAVE taught many a valuable lesson
—people in some portions of New Hampshire
have learned from them when they get too
thick to thrive, to "swarm."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
   Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
   Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							 Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.
				__
	A Woman’s rights paper is published at
Venice, Italy......A man at Gold Hill, Ne-
vada, fell on the railway track and had his
legs run over by six cars, the other day, and
still lived for a short time......The shooting
of a paper wad from a gun, was the origin
of a fire that burned up fifty acres of wheat
for a farmer in California......Pikes Peak is
11,497 feet above the level of the sea.........
Gunners in some portions of the country
now use pure kerosene for cleaning their fire
arms......A rattle snake was lately killedat
San Diego, California, which measured nin e
inches in circumference and had eighteen
 rattles on its tail......The first of May, of the
present year is famous for its frequent me-
teors......Massachusetts has one hundred and
forty thousand dollars invested in railroads.
......Twelve small planets have been dis-
covered since the beginning of last year......
A steam-wagon is to run from Nashville to
Pulaski, Tennesee, commencing regular
trips in October next......A new telegraph
instrument is in operation, with the Western
Union Telegraph Company..........Hampton,
Virginia, has an institution for tecnical
education, where colored students who are
unable to bear the whole of their expenses
are furnished employment, and thus given
the means of helping themselves......A new
design for a steel locomotive boiler has been
made at the works of the London and North-
western Railway......One of the first mow-
ing machines ever invented in America
was the Baily, in 1822......It is said that the
most rational way of making steel is to
remove carbon from iron; but a wag reckons
“steal” might be more easily made by
removing silver from a safe, provided the
agent was quite “safe” himself......“Lippin-
cott,” for June, speaks of counterfeit emer-
alds which it is utterly impossible to
distinguish from the real gem, by the aid
of the eye alone......Gainsboro’ in Jackson
County, Tennessee, has a six-year-old math-
ematical prodigy, who makes astonishing
disclosures as to his ability as a natural
calculator. Another Horace Greeley, or
something like......George Ripley is reported
to have won himself the name of being the
best book critic in this country......England,
last year, recorded the marriage of eleven
grooms over eighty years of age; it looks as
though old England was beginnig to renew
her age......New York is agitating the im-
portance of preparing peat and similar
products for fuel......Louisaina is still dis-
turbed over her two governors............
There is to be seen in the pavilion of the
Ministry of Agriculture, at Vienna, a float-
ing cannon ball weighing 50 pounds.......A
man in Tennessee gives directions for spirit
writings on a slate, in which he says the
room of course must be dark, spirits won’t
write otherwise; this is that your spectators
may not have opportunity to watch you too
closely while you write as you please.........
The weavers of Berlin have made a strike
for higher wages.......Burton, the actor says
one half the work required to make a good
actor would make a rich man in any other
profession......The mysteries of the death of
Captain Hall, the arctic explorer, are to be
 examined into by Secretary Robeson.........
A great scandal in high life is being brought
to light in the New York Walworth murder
case......Broad Street, St. Giles, London,
once had a sign composed of a painting of a
woman without a head and the inscription
“The Good Woman,” condensing in a small
space the opinions of some men who con-
sider themselves great ones......A writer
 summarizes the history of civilization in
nine words, “The more you know the more
you can perform.”......The London School
Board, composed of men and women dis-
tinguished in physical as well as social
science, is now using its power to compel the
attendance o fchildren at school....The charac-
teristic element of modern science is the
quantative element, “how much” instead of
“how well” can be done, and too little care
is taken in the accomplishment of almost
anything that is performed.....J. P. Quincy
says “doubt any one’s good sense who
speaks scornfully of newspapers.........The
German population are counted among
the most industrious and economical citizens
of St. Louis......The capital of the American
Financial Corporation is limited to $1,000,-
000......A New York paper thinks that as a
cheap advertising dodge, the postal card
have become a nuisance......Bishop Ville, of
Parma, Italy, has forbidden the reading of
liberal newspapers in his jurisdiction......
Farmers are advised to marry in July, as
that is generally the natural hay-day of their
happiness......Chief Justice Chase is said
to have had a perfect mastery of Shakes-
pear, Milton and the earlier British poets.
......Bogus Charley, the Modoc warrior is
only about twenty years of age, a slender,
athletic, intelligent young man......L. E.
Crittenden delivered the address at the
inauguration of the statue of Ethan Allen,
on the 4th of July......A pretty compliment
to a lady is now considered thus, “a most
amiable lady worthy to be the maiden aunt
of the whole human race.”


﻿TERRITORIAL NORMAL INSTITUTE.
The happy idea of taking advantage of the
long summer vacation, which occurs yearly
during the months of July and August, to im-
provise a Normal School or lnstitute seems to us
to be fraught with great good to our educational
interests. There is no direction in which labor
can be spent more profitably and advanta-
geously to the rising generation than in teach-
ing our young and inexperienced teachers how
to preside and direct in the school room.
	When we reflect that Utah has had to use in
the school room as teachers, many whose op-
portunities for acquiring a thorough education
have been very limited indeed, we hail the
inauguration of the Institute with much
gratification, and only wish that our circum-
stances were such as to allow us the pleasure
of spending a portion of time daily in attend-
ance.
	We are pleased to learn that forty-eight
pupil teachers are in attendance from Salt Lake
County, with a few from Weber, Sanpete, Juab,
Morgan and Beaver counties; total seventy-
eight.
	We learn incidentally that the Superinten-
dent of Schools, has shouldered the burden of
engaging Dr. Park, Miss M. E. Cook, Professors
Maeser and Dusenberry to conduct the Insti-
tute; and in this matter it is to be hoped,
his efforts will be sustained, financially, that
he may have satisfaction in his labors.


﻿PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

	Many good and seasonable ideas were ad-
vanced at the Sabbath School Teacher’s Con-
vention, held in this city on the evening of the
7th inst. One of the most impressive facts
specified, was the inconsistency of parents
pursuing one course and endeavoring to teach
their children to walk in the opposite direction.
It was adduced that where a family of children
were known not to attend Sabbath School,
searching into the cause, almost invariably
brought to light the truth of the nonattend-
ance of their parents at the church meetings.
	It is a question if there are not many well
meaning parents, who fail to consider the im-
portance of their children’s receiving a proper
understanding and forming habits of observing
the Sabbath day. But if parents do not enjoy
the spirit of the religion they profess, to a
sufficient degree to enable them to appreciate
and delight in the sacredness of keeping holy
the Sabbath of the Lord, according as He
hats commanded, it is but folly for them to
seek to impress upon the minds of their chil-
dren that which they themselves do not feel.
It is worse than nonsense for parents to expect
their offspring to regard a principle they con-
temn or do not practice. It would be well if
parents visited the Sabbath schools often and
manifested the same interest in them that most
of them would be pleased to see their children
evince. And if fathers and mothers, among
the Latter-day Saints would have their sons
and daughters pure in heart and wise in un-
derstanding, let them walk circumspectly in
advance, thinking pure thoughts and living
pure lives.
	Even plurality, which is by many, thought
to be the most difficult of all God’s revealed
laws to be understood and accepted, is, by the
righteous and just course of a considerate father
and mother and agreeable co-workers, rendered
to the feelings of children a sacred and beauti-
ful point of doctrine.
	To instill into the minds of the young, the
principle of paying tithing, was also brought
into careful consideration during the evening of
the Convention. And what principle is there,
pertaining to the Gospel of Christ, which en-
sures happiness to young and old, more than 
this one, which is calculated to remove from
the thoughts and feelings all selfishness? As
soon as children are old enough to understand, 
this law should be taught them, and with this
as with all others—example weighs much more
than precept.


"THE BEST PHYSICIAN."
	
	Sobriety and temperance go farther towards
preserving health of mind and body, and help-
ing people to live long upon the earth, than all
other prescriptions put together. The quality
and quantity of food and drink taken into the
stomach has much influence over the mind and
senses. It should be a leading rule in regard to 
diet, never to overload the stomach. A small
portion of food can be better digested than a 
large portion which injures the coats of the
stomach, and prevents them from exerting 
their force. There can be no fixed standard,
as a rule for what shall be eaten; for the organ- 
ized system as well as taste, differs so greatly 
in individuals. One may eat freely of a certain 
kind of food, and realize only good results;
while partaking of a like substance might prove
very injurious to another. Observation and
self study must determine the kinds of food best
suited to different persons, in all seasons of the 
year. The real object of eating should not be
exclusively to satisfy the appetite. The sensa-


tion of hunger, it has been observed by a man
of extraordinary good sense, is to incite living
beings to supply the wants of their earthly
bodies; and the abatement of this sensation
generally denotes that such wants have been
supplied. The satisfying of the appetite so
far, is pronounced a matter of consideration;
but a prudent person will observe the mode in
which the appetite is best satisfied, and, at the
same time the frame most abundantly nour-
ished, for the latter, ought to be the chief object
of eating. To the temperament, age and
strength of the eater, should the quantity of
food be proportioned; but too great variety, or
other than plain, wholesome food should be
avoided by all. Also sudden changes from one
extreme of living to another. If a change is
required, it should be made by degrees, very
cautiously. The appetite for food and drink,
with its liability to increase or become deranged,
should not be held as a regulator for the quan-
tity to be taken. If judgment were consulted
and adhered to instead, many difficulties migh
thus be prevented. Taking into the stomach
anything that weakens the body or makes it
heavy or torpid, serves also to unfit the mind
for proper exercise and exertion. But temper-
ance in everything purifies and gives vigor
and vivacity to the senses, strengthens and
quickens the memory, mitigates the passions,
enhances the love for virtuous enjoyment,
beautifies and harmonizes all thoughts, words
and actions and may well be styled the best of
all physicians, the wisest of all counselors and
the truest of all friends. For it is really the
spirit and power of true religion. And if people
would only listen to and never offend or slight
this great friend, there would be but little work
for other physicians to do. Occasionally there
might occur an accident, such as the breaking
of a limb or the bruising of a head; but is not
disobedience to the laws of temperance, the most
prolific cause of even such injuries, and in most
instances, the chief occasion of their worst
results? When the blood has been inflamed
or the functions of any organs of the body dis-
ordered by intemperance, the pains of any hurt
must be more violent and the injury itself more
dangerous for the preceding evils committed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	No letter from our correspondent at Beaver
this issue. The readers of the Exponent will,
with us, regret an omission of those ever
welcome and highly entertaining and suggestive
communications, with which we have been so
greatly favored.
	The City Council of this city has passed an
ordinance regulating the manufacture and sale
of spirituous and fermented liquors, which it is
to be hoped, will have the partial effect de-
sired in limiting and controlling the traffic and
too frequent use of liquor.
	After long days of excessively warm, dry
weather, came, courteously and cheeringly
down upon this city, a few refreshing drops of
rain, during the morning of the 11th isnt.,
between two and three o'clock. Not many of
the inhabitants could have been aware of it
though, for the shower was not heavy enough
to awaken the sleeping multidues.
	Work on the Temple goes on encouragingly,
so we thought while lately viewing inside
the block, the number of busy masons, and the
large quantity of granite, a considerable portion
of which was hewn  ready for laying in its place.
It would be gratifying to see all the Saints
unitedly and faithfully supporting the energetic
efforts of their leaders to complete a house
wherein all the ordinances of the holy Gospel
﻿could be adminestered for the living and the
dead. We were pleased to see quite a number
of boys, learning stone cutting, thus, not only
assisting in so good a work, but also acquiring
a useful occupation that may benefit them
through life.
	So carefully and silently was the closing
portion of the return trip of Miss Eliza R.
Snow conducted, that not until Thursday, the
fourth day after her arrival, when the return of
her brother, President Lorenzo Snow, to Brig-
ham City, was noticed in the daily papers, was
it suspected by many of her friends that she
was again safe at her home in this city, which
she reached on the evening of Sunday, the 6th
inst. Miss Snow is looking well, feeling well,
and rejoices at being again in the midst of
the Latter-day Saints, the people whom she
loves.
	The Glorious Fourth came and went peace-
fully and pleasantly this year, as it always does in
this city. The Fireman’s parade in the morning
was worth ever so much booming of cannon
and cracking and roaring of guns and pistols
which Utah boys don’t indulge in now as they
were wont to do in days gone by, ere they were
shown the impropriety of wasting so much
ammunition unnecessarily. And the concert
entertainment at the Tabernacle in the after-
noon, was par-excellent; the fire-works in the
evening, exceedingly pleasing and enlivening.
Altogether, every one who whished to spend
the Anniverary of American Independence jubi-
lents had ample resource for being gratified.
	A proposition has been lately made, to have
an iron steamer built for pleasure excursions on
the Great Salt Lake; and a gentleman of this
city proposes a home manufactured one from
beginning to end. The enterprise; if entered
into, will be new in Utah, and interesting to
many. Why are not more boys of suitable age
and inclinations, put to learn trades of different
kinds where efficient tradesmen may be found
to instruct? To understand the entire construc-
tion of a ship "from keelson to top-mast," is
worth something to a man. And besides this, 
there are many useful trades which boys of
strength and energy would do better to learn
and practice, than to grow to be men, knowing
nothing but how to stand behind a counter and
measure off tape and ribbon, or perform some
other light work, which legitimately belongs
to ladies.
	Civilization (?) creeps into our midst in all
forms, and warns all honest people to be cautious
how, where and with whom they walk, talk or
become in any way acquainted. The "Ogden
Junction" tells a story of a man being drawn
into a gambling hole in that city, after having
been treated to intoxicating drinks by newly
formed acquaintances, and there victimized
out of one thousand dollars—“his little fortune,
his all, which he had earned after years of toil.”
Such stories used to appear in newspapers of
the outside world, but were read with little effect
by children of Utah, many of whom gave little
credence to them, realizing in so small a degree
anything like the selfishness and impurity
which exists upon earth. But "civilization (!)"
has come nearer home now, and it requires a
constant effort to keep its contaminating in-
fluences from overpowering the true structures
of honor and integrity.
	We have been pleased to meet with a num-
ber of young teachers and advanced learners
who are in town from different parts of the
Territory, attending the Normal Institute and
receiving instructions under the able manage-
ment of Professor Park. A portion of the
young men and young women of Utah, it is
gratifying to note, are always on hand and
eager to avail themselves of such opportunities
for developing their intellectual faculties,
which, until recently, have never been afforded
them. The suggestions offered during the
course of the normal class, will without doublt,
be of great advantage to inexperienced teachers;
and, as one of the Institute’s intelligent young
lady pupils remarked to us, "It is well for us to
get all the knowledge of correct order and
discipline, and all the true understanding we
caneven if we have no intention of becoming
school teachers."


SEWING ON BUTTONS.

	The editor of the “Danbury News” thus
facetiously describes the male process of
sewing on a button; our brother editor is
probably a man of experience: “Sometimes
the patient wife scalds her right hand, or
runs a sliver under the nail of the index
finger of that hand, and it is then that the
man clutches the needle around the neck,
and forgetting to tie a knot in the thread,
commences to put on the button. It is
always in the morning, and from five to
twenty minutes after he is expected to be
down the street. He lays the button exactly
on the site of its predecessor, and pushes the
needle through one eye, and draws the
thread after, leaving about three inches of
it sticking up for lee way. He says to
himself: “Well, if women don’t have the
easiest time I ever see.” Then he comes
back the other way, and gets the needle
through the cloth well enough, and lays
himself out to find the eye, but in spite of a
great deal of jabbing, the needle point per-
sists in bucking against the solid parts of
that button, and finally when he loses
patience his fingers catch the thread, and
that three inches he had left to hold the
button slips through the eye in a
twinkling, and the button rolls leisurely
across the floor. He picks it up without a
single remark, out of respect for his chil-
dren, and makes another attempt to fasten
it. This time when coming back with the
needle he keeps both the thread and the
button from slipping by covering them with
his thumb, and it is out of regard for that
part of him that he feels around for the eye
in a very careful and judiceous manner; but
eventually losing his philosophy, as the
search becomes more and more hopeless, he
falls to jabbing about in a loose and savage
manner, and it is just then the needle finds
the opening, and comes up through the
button and part way through the thumb
with a celerity that no human ingenuity
can guard against. Then he lays down the
things with a few familiar quotations and
presses the injured hand between his knees,
and then holds it under his arm, and finally
jams it into his mouth, and all the while he
prances about the floor and calls upon heaven
and earth to witness that there has never
been anything like it since the world was
created, and howls, and whistles, and moans
and sobs. After a while he calms down, and
puts on his pants, and fastens them together
with a stick, and goes to his business a
changed man.”


﻿Mirrors laid over with gold are reported
to reflect sixteen times as powerfully as
ordinary quicksilver ones. 
	An aged couple who had been married
sixty-two years, lately attended a ball in
Newburyport, (Mass.), and took a lively
share in the festivities.
	Miss Nettie Wood has just been selected
a life member of a Hose Company of Schen-
ectady. The boys of that city have the fire 
of true gallantry.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TWO LITTLE FEET.

	Two little feet, so small that both may nestle
		In one carressing hand
	Two tender feet upon the untried border
		Of life’s mysterious land;

	Dimpled and soft and pink as peach tree blossoms
		In April’s fragrant days;
	How can they walk among the briery tangles
		Edging the world’s rough way?s

	These white-rose feet along the doubtful future
		Must bear a woman’s load
	Alas! since woman has the heaviest burden
		And walks the hardest road.

	Love, for awhile, will make the path before them
		All dainty, smooth and fair—
	Will cull away the brambles, letting only
		The roses blossom there.

	But when the mother’s watchful eye is shrouded
		Away from sight of men.
	And these dear feet are left without the guiding,
		Who shall direct them then?

	How will they be allured, betrayed, deluded,
		Poor little untaught feet!
	Into what dreamy mazes will they wander,
		What dangers will they meet?

	Will they go stumbling blindly in the darkness
		Of Sorrow’s tearful shades?
	Or find the upland slopes of Peace and Beauty
		Whose sunlight never fades?

	Will they go toiling up Ambition’s summit,
		The common world above?
	Or in some nameless vale securely sheltered,
		Walk side by side with Love? 

	Some feet there be which walk life’s track un-
			wounded,
		Which find but pleasant ways;
	Some hearts there be to which this life is only
		A round of happy days.

	But they are few. far more there are who wan-
			der
		Without a hope or friend—
	Who find their journey full of pains and Iosses,
		And long to reach the end.

	How shall it be with her, the tender stranger,
		Fair-faced and gentle-eyed;
	Before whose unstained feet the world’s rude
			highway
	Stretches so strange and wide?

	Ah! who may read the future? For our darling
		We crave all blessings sweet—
	And pray that He who feeds the crying ravens
		Will guide the baby’s feet.
—“Lady’s Friend.”
							Florence Percy.


TRUE CRITICISM.

	When you wish to find fault with another,
choose an opportunity in private, and not
directly after the offense has been commit-
ted. Let it be too, after you have carefully
reflected upon the nature and importance of
the wrong which has been done. The cen-
sured are less inclined to resist when blamed
without witnesses. They are likely also to be
struck with the forbearance you have shown
in waiting until you could see them alone,
while noting the error all the while, or some
time before.
	If you are a husband, never accuse your
wife of taking little or no pains to please you,
of being neglectful of your comfort or of any
of the duties which especially belong to her.
If you have a wife who is careless in such
respects, the best possible criticism to offer,
if she be possessed of a heart, is, for yourself
to adopt the opposite course. Does she insist
on wearing an article of dress which is
decidedly distasteful in your eyes, or pur-
chase without consulting your judgment
and desires; ask her, when you intend to
buy a new hat or coat, which style she
thinks most becoming to you. And be sure
to get that which she fancies most. Her
taste, in such matters, is as likely to be
superior to your own as yours is to surpass
hers in relation to anything she wears. At
any rate, humor her feelings; it will do good
in more ways than one. She will not only
be ashamed of the selfishness she has mani-
fested, and lovingly confess the same by
carefully studying your choice and endeavor-
ing to suit it in future; but will also seek to
cultivate her own taste and gain a correct
understanding of your wants and needs,
that her judgment may be more worthy of
being consulted and trusted another time.
	In like manner, meet all her woman-
ish mistakes, and without a word of fault-
finding, fretful or harsh criticism, you will
soon have a model wife.
	Are you a mother, and you choose to
leave home for a few hours, charging the
little folks to keep out of mischief, the older
ones to look after the younger ones and all
to be very good, be careful with what spirit
you meet them on your return. Do not
look first to find out all that may have gone
wrong, but try to see something that has
been well done for which you may offer
a few words of affectionate encouragement
and appreciation. If you find Bessie out
doors with baby bare-headed, don’t let your
first words on coming up to them be hastily
spoken; don’t tell Bessie to “take that child
right straight into the house—he’ll be
tanned as black as a negro!” And add as
you follow them, that she deserves a good
whipping for having him out there, and
that you suppose everything else has been
managed in like manner since you went
away. But rather reflect a moment ere you
speak. Think if eight or ten-year-old Bessie
is not a good girl for remembering to take
care of her baby brother and keeping him
with her, even if she has not remained in
the house all the time while the other
children were romping and having fun out-
side. And if portions of the housework
that should have been seen to, are left
undone, let those be last, instead of first to
claim your attention. See what arrangments
have been nicely planned and where the
orders you left have been promptly fulfilled;
give loving words of praise and credit for
these, and then see how readily all the rest
will be accomplished and what great pains
will be taken another time to have nothing
left undone that is calculated to add to your
comfort and win your smiles and kisses of
approval. Take such measures in all things
with your children, and they will learn to
anticipate your desires even before they are
told, and to delight in gratifying them.
									G.


﻿THE HEART SUPREME.

	Nothing in the wide world is worth half
so much as love and peace.  Riches, and
station, and rank, and learning, and polish,
and genius are vanity, and less than nothing
when weighed in the balance with a kind,
genial, unselfish heart.  Have them all, if
you can; the first things are good additions
to the last, but they are wretched substitutes
for it.  It cannot be from necessity that they
are so often parted; there surely is no
“sufficient” reason why the good and noble
heart should be chilled, and hardened, and
inflated with pride, by the acquisition of the
things that make men great in the eyes of
their fellows.  The most elaborate culture,
the most subtle refinement, ought not to
render men selfish and vain.  Better blun-
der with the intellect than with the heart,
for in the heart, not in the head, lies
manhood; and the days will come when the
“Heart will be crowned and walk before,
when the understanding goes behind to do
its errands.”   “A new commandment I
give unto you, that ye love one another,”
								A.M.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	An exchange remarks that it is one of 
the pecularities of the boy, that he finds
himself unable to bathe, except, so to speak,
at the top of his lungs.
	GIRARD, Pennsylvania, claims a little
child, perfectly developed, which weighed
but three ounces at birth and seven ounces 
when three weeks old.
	EVERY child who is born, is born a soldier
in the grand army of the human activities,
and has to meet and face both friend and
foe, and wage a warfare that ends in
glorious success or inglorious defeat.
	THE youngest homicide is twenty-three 
months old and lives in Augusta, Ga. It
threw an ale bottle at its colored nurse, who
was lying on the floor, striking her in the
head and causing an abcess that proved fatal
in ten days.
	NASHVILLE has a black and white boy
combination. He is half black and half 
white, not in the mulatto sense, but the
lower half of his body is whiter than ordin-
ary white folks, while his upper half is as
black as midnight. On the top of his head
is a little patch of straight silken hair, sur-
rounded by kinky negro wool. 
	A SMALL boy, having been required to
write a composition on some part of the 
human body, expounded as follows: "The
Throat- A throat is convenient to have,
especially for roosters and ministers. The
former eats corn and crows with it; the
latter preaches through his'n and ties it
up."
	A STRANGE mystery, involving the al-
leged disappearance of eighteen helpless
children, who had been committed as infant
paupers to public institutions on Blackwell's
Island, is being investigated by the Com-
missioners of Charities. The little creatures,
it is said, were farmed out to a lady, and she
seems to be unable to tell whether they are
living or dead. 
	A DECLAMATION FOR A SMALL BOY.
Keep still! That's what they say to us boys.
Just as if there never had been any noise
in the world until we were born. Haven't
old folks all been boys and girls once?
Didn't some of them drum on the milk pans,
or crack nuts with the flat-iron, or slam the
doors, or come down stairs sliding down hill
fashion? Everything that is smart goes off 
with a "bang." This would be a dull
world if it were not for the racket the boys
make. Noisy boys are not always saucy.
Some are; but we don't train in that com-
pany. "We" belong to the "Boys Rattle-
te-bang Society of Good Manners," and we
invite all our young friends to come and
join us.
	When the Dark Cometh.—A little girl
sat, at twilight, in her sick mother's room,
busily thinking. All day she had been full
of fun and noise, and had many times wor-
ried her poor, tired mother. "Ma," said
the little girl, "what do you suppose makes
me get over my mischief and begin to act
good just about this time every night?" "I
do not know, dear. Can you tell me why?"
"Well, I guess it's because this is when the 
dark comes. You know I am a little afraid
of that. And then, ma, I begin to think of
all the naughty things I've done to grieve
you, and that perhaps you might die before 
morning, and so I begin to act good."
"Oh!" thought I, "how many of us wait till
the dark comes, in the form of sickness or
sorrow, or trouble of some kind, before we
begin to act good!" How much better to
be good while we are enjoying life's bright
sunshine! and then, 'when the dark comes’
—as it will, in a measure to all—we shall
be ready to meet it without fear."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
	HOME INFLUENCES.

"As Mother did”—“How Mother felt
and acted.”—“What mother taught”—are
the hinges upon which the world turns.
How carefully then, should “Mother” guard
herself against the temptations which lie in
her way, to anger, jealousy, impatience and
irritability of every kind! It will not answer
for her to be “cross,” no matter what the
occasion may be. She must wear the smile
of love and hopefulness; hers must be
words of cheerful trust and consolation un-
der the most trying circumstances; lest fret-
fulness and dissatisfaction be engendered
in the minds of her offspring.   She must
never allow the least envious or willful feel-
ing to have place in her heart, much less, find
utterance through her lips. Her thoughts
must be all of the highest and noblest nature,
or else she may give to the world sons and
daughters possessed of selfish and ungovenr-
able dispositions.
  If then, so much depends on “Mother”
to perform, if to her belongs so important a
part in making of the characters of men and
women—the Great Creator’s mightiest work
—how favorable should be her opportunities
for overcoming and disciplining her own
peculiar. Inclinations, in order that she may
the more completely and discreetly help to
characterize the dispositions and talents of
the coming generation! It is befitting her
to strive, energetically and continuously, to
school and master herself in all respects,
wisely and thoroughly; and in doing so, she
should not lack encouragement and assist-
ance from those around her.  Let her not feel
that she only must immolate within herself
those natural vanitites and discordant flashes
of temper which human flesh is heir to; but
help her to  see  that it is, if possible, of
greater moment that she be circumspect in
her ways, than that others should, since her
influence upon the future world is more
than that of any other can be.   And let her
know, she does not labor and trust alone;
but that others are willing and anxious to
help her in every consistent way, to become
what she, desires  to  be, prompted  by the
worthiest ambition, and that which she
should be for the sake of the inevitable
results which must follow her self-culture
and self control.
 Let “Mother” do her  part, but not the
whole in making home-life what it should
be. If she must so carefully guard the feelings
of all, let her feelings be equally respected
by all.   If she is expected to bestow the
priceless gift of pure and earnest affection
in richer abundance than any other, let her
receive the more from others that her store
may be constantly replenished. If she be
required to exhibit patience and fortitude
more than the rest, let each one endeavor to
give her as little cause for vexation and to
make her burdens as light as possible.
Home should, be, indeed, the "dearest,
sweetest spot on earth!”  And nothing con-
tributes so much towards rendering it such,
or the contrary, as the course pursued and
the influence exercised by the mother.  Yet
that course, and influence depend, in their
nature, very much upon the aims and ways
of others. Some women may possess suffi-
cient strength of character to take the lead
and make home happy regardless of the
immunity indulged in by thoughtless, in-
different or willfully neglectful husbands
and fathers.  But even- this can never be
so pleasant as is the home where love is
mutual, and each one trys to be agreeable
and obliging; where the purity and gentle-
ness of one, softens and tones down the
[new column]
dignity and ardor of the other, while both
are strengthened, and rendered more endur-
ing by such generous reciprocity. 
								L.L.


CO-OPERATION OF A WIFE. 

	Upon this subject, some author, unknown
to us, has thus beautifully written: "No 
man ever prospered in the world without the
co-operation of the wife. If she unites in 
mutual endeavors, or rewards his labors with
an endearing smile, with what confidence
will he resort to his merchandise or his farm,
fly over lands, sail upon seas, meet difficulty
and encounter danger, if he knows that he 
is not spending his strength in vain, but
that his labor will be rewarded by the
sweets of home! Solicitude and disappoint-
ment enter the history of every man's life,
and he is but half provided for his voyage
who finds but an associate for happy hours,
while for his months of darkness and distress
no sympathising partner is prepared."
	It is worthy of note that all or nearly all
great and distinguished men have been 
the husbands of remarkably gentle and
highly intellectual wives. The following
story of Mrs. de Lafayette is illustrative of 
this fact:
	"Having been set at liberty in 1795, Mrs.
de Lafayette sent her young son George to 
Mount Vernon, to General Washington, who
received him as his own son, and she her-
self went to Germany to share her husband's
captivity. After many difficulties, she
arrived in Vienna, under the name of Mrs.
"Motier," an American lady. (Lafayette
indeed called himself "Motier," and he had
been admitted an American citizen.) This
courageous lady, having obtained private
audience of the Austrian Emperor, was
allowed to be shut up in the same dungeon
with her husband. Though in feeble health,
she remained there till the day when 
Lafayette's chains were broken. Her
presence was a balm for the prisoner's
wounds, and showed him that, in the most
cruel moments, the good man can yet taste
pure enjoyment.
	Mrs. de Lafayette was sincerely pious.
She fulfilled all her duties without ostenta-
tion, and shed a sweet charm in her domestic
circle. But let us hear Lafayette himself in
the touching letter which he wrote to one of
his friends after the death of his wife:
'During the thirty-four years of a union in
which her tenderness, her goodness, the
loftiness, delicacy, generosity of her soul
charmed, embelished, dignified my life, I
became so accustomed to all that she was to
me, as not to distinguish her existance
from my own. I never perceived in her the
slightest shade of exaction, of discontent,
anything which did not leave the freest
scope to all my undertakings; and if I go
back to the time of our youth, I find in her
traits of a delicacy and generosity without
example. You have always seen her associ-
ated heart and soul in my sentiments,
my political wishes, rejoicing in all that
could increase my reputation, rejoicing
especially when she saw me sacrificing op-
portunities of renown for a good principle.
*  *  Shall I tell you of the pleasure con-
stantly recurring which my entire confi-
dence in her afforded me,—a confidence 
never exacted,—justified by her well-tried
discretion, and by her admirable knowledge
of all the sentiments, wants, and wishes of
my heart?


UTE INDIANS have, in some instances,
become office seekers, and are gaining popu-
larity by stealing horses. They have been
taking lessons at Washington.


﻿THE SEX.

	MRS. J. A. Dunniway has announced that
she is a candidate for the office of Mayor in
Portland, Oregon.
	A CHINESE maiden, of delicate propor-
tions, brought  $5:75 at auction, in Idaho a 
few days since. 
	WHILE a pretty Omaha girl was getting
married, one of her jilted lovers sneaked
into a back room and smashed up the hand-
some bridal presents.
	WHEN you see a fresh bouquet of flowers
in a window every morning you may be 
almost sure that within the house there is a
woman of taste and goodness.
	IT is said that Mdlle, Cora Pearl, who was
sent out of France by the late Government,
has been allowed to return, like Prince Na-
poleon.  The coincidence has set the gossips
at work again.
	VERY large fans continue in fashion. 
They are of all patterns and prices.  Cheap
ones are most in favor. the ladies arguing
that the rapid changes in fashion justify
them in being economical.
	THE New Hampshire women, headed by
Sarah Foster, of Canterbury, have sent a
petition to the Legislature asking that the
property of women may be exempted from
taxation.  No vote, no tax, is their motto. 
	AN old lady in Indiana was buried  the
other day in the suit of clothes in which she
was married seventy-three years ago. It
was of linen throughout, and made of flax
she raised, spun, and wove with her own
hands. 
	A FATHER, in consoling his daughter who
had lost her husband, said: "I don't wonder
you grieve for him, my child.  You will
never find his equal.” 	 “I don’t know as I
can," responded the sobbing widow, "but
I'll do my best!" The father went home
comforted.
	Rev. Dr. Goodspeed, of  Chicago, said, in
the course of a Sunday's sermon, "The devil
understood what was necessary to blast
Eden, when he led the woman to be false
to God, to herself, to her husband.  A bad
woman,  an  untrue woman, is the prime
corrupter of society, and the destroyer of its
peace."
	THE women of Rochester who advocate
Woman Suffrage have held a meeting, or-
ganized a "woman's taxpayers' association,"
and adopted a constitution which says their
object is "to protest against taxation without
representation and to test the validity of 
laws governing women without their con-
sent."
	WHEN her Majesty, Queen Victoria, was
taken to task by a Right Reverend, years 
ago, for having Channing's works on her
table, and Her Majesty asked "why not?"
the eclesiastic unsuspectingly replied that
they contained very objectionable passages.
"Ah!" retorted the gracious Sovereign, "I
perceive you are before me in having read
them."
	THERE are women who love solitude and
live in it, who realize the idea that they
seek no joy but that which flows from the
depth of their own inner being.  Very few
people understand what infinite advantages
exist in solitude, especially for a woman. If
she be married and have children,  her
family circle is her solitude; if the contrary
be the case, her solitude is absolute, one "in
which she can actually live alone."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PROGRESS OF WOMAN’S RIGHTS.

  Miss Anna Nichols, of Massachusetts, has
recently been appointed assistant examiner
of the Patent office. The lady has for some
time very creditably fulfilled the duties of
clerk; and on the occasion of some vacancies
in the examinerships, she was one of several
ladies who competed for places.   All of the
candidates were subjected to general scien-
tific examination as to their capabilities for
the position, and four ladies  passed the
ordeal with much credit.  The Commis-
sioner, however, concluded to appoint only
one of them for the present, as a sort of
experiment.
  There are few duties connected with the
operation of the Patent Office but may be
efficiently performed by intelligent women
It is all indoor work, mostly of a fixed,
clerical nature, for which petticoats are
admirably adapted; and if the Commis-
sioner would make a more general use of
them, he would set free a large number of
pataloons to be usefully employed in develop-
ing the more direct outdoor industries of
the country, for which men -are, by nature,
so especially prepared.
   At Canandaigua, in this State, Miss Susan
B. Anthony, who insisted that she had as
good-a right to vote as any other man, and
who did vote at the last election, has been
tried, and, we regret to say, found guilty,
and fined for violating the law.   Judge Hunt
decided that, although women were entitled
to the general rights of citizens, there were
certain special privileges which the law of
New York, as it stands, did not give them,
one of which was the privilege of voting.
The law must, in the opinion of Judge
Hunt, be changed before our feminine fel-
low citizens can enjoy themselves at the
ballot box.
    In the meantime, the Commissioner hav-
ing wisely decided in favor of the eligi-
bility of women as patent examiners, we
shall hope to see his decision sustained and
ratified by the appointment of Miss Anthony
as his successor when he shall retire—and
that day we understand, is not far distant.
The lady in question is a female steamboat,
so far as untiring energyand useful capacity
are concerned.   She is, undoubtedly, com-
petent to manage a dozen or two sleepy
institutions like the Patent Office. We
nominate, for Commissioner of Patents, Miss
Susan B. Anthony, of New York, and Miss
Anna Nichols, for Assistant Commissioner.
— Scientific American,” July 5th.


CONFIDENCE.

    Have you never had a visitor come in and
say “I feel down-hearted to-day, and I
thought I'd come and see you.   I thought
you’d help me to feel better!"
   I doubt not you have; and did you appre-
ciate it?   This confidence in your judge-
ment,  your worthiness as a friend; this
appeal to your   sympathy, loving, deli-
cate, is a compliment better than one of ball-
room etiquette.  O my  sisters!  who toil
upward, by prayer, by earnest endeavor, by
submission to this or that course or circum-
stance, as Father chooses to appoint; what
better can we do, or be, than to be a support
to the down-hearted, to be worthy the confi-
dence of each other?
     How far below such a status are the
extravagant vanities which vex life? Where
in this do we see those jealousies and rival-
ries which the world call the attributes of
femininity?
    The woman who can be an acknowledged
support to another, can sustain herself in her


hour of adversity from a source  whose
qualities are an unfailing wealth.
  Then, welcome such visitors! for ye are
the culturers that call into existence the
best attributes which God has sown in the
earth of our natures and give us indepen-
dence which lessens not our womanhood.
								A. I. C.
Salt Lake City.


A FEW WORDS ON EMIGRATION.

 Through the medium of our friend and
companion, (the Exponent,) I would say a
few words to my sisters on a subject that
should interest all; and that is the emigra-
tion of the poor Saints from Europe.  The
hand of God has gathered us to these beauti-
ful vales, where we can enjoy peace from
the mobocrat, and freedom from the op-
pressor; and has poured blessings out upon
us without stint.  And shall we in return,
refuse to help those who are in want and
distress, depending upon us for aid?  Or
shall we stretch forth our hand in the
direction God has pointed out by His
servant, our beloved Leader, and enjoy the
sweet consolation of having done what God
required.  Inasmuch as our Father has
blessed us with much of this world's goods,
will He not hold us accountable for the use
we make of it?  And does He not require
us to share with those less favored than
ourselves. The way is now open, let us
walk in it ere it is closed.
	
	"If thou hast passed an aching heart,
	Turn back a little way;
	Let not thy giving be a part
	To act another day;
	Give while the weary eye is dim,
	And if a tear should fall,
	'Twould be in gratitude to Him,
	Who heard the mourner's call." 

	There is another consideration; and that
is, laying up treasure in Heaven, the only
place where treasure never fades. We
would all like to have something there to
our credit.  And when the time comes for
our actions to be weighed in the balances,
we shall want every good deed to weigh as
heavily as possible.  If we should lay  aside
some of our real or imaginary wants and
impart to the real necessities of others, I do
not see where the harm would be. And
this I do know, that “sacrifice brings forth
the blessings of heaven.”

	“When thy to-morrows all have passed,
	Kind acts will then appear
	Like angels waiting by thy side 
	To bless thee and to cheer.”
								M.L.M.
SALT LAKE CITY, July 1st, 1873


-
A DAUGHTER is almost always right when
she endeavors to imitate her mother; but it
is doubtful wheather the mother is equally
right when, at a certain period of life, she
tries all she can to imitate her daughter.
	THE Indians in Plumas County begin to
show signs of adopting the white man’s civi-
lization.  The Quincy “National” says that
the red men who reside in the vicinity of
Greenville have subscribed $200 for the
erection of a school house, and engaged Mr.
Summerland to manage the enterprise for
them.  It states also that the Indians on
the north side of the Plumas valley have
raised $300, to be devoted to a like purpose.
Now, here is a worthy object that the whites
ought everywhere to encourage.  It is bet-
ter to educate the Indians, teach them the
arts of husbandry, and have them become
lawabiding residents, than to be under a
constant state of apprehension from their
proximity as idlers and vagabonds, at any
time liable to get into difficulties with their
white neighbors.


CALDER & CARELESS,

	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City

Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine. 
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.   ie15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

				H. DINWOODEY,

	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better - if as good - we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the TELEGRAPH WASHING MACHINE, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be 
addressed, "P.O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

				NEW CLUB RATES.
	

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-		$13.00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-		  26.00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2.50		-	-	   34.00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-				    48.00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


﻿A VIENNA correspondent thinks that the
Austrian women owe their reputation for
beauty to the fact that many of them have
golden hair and black eyes.


Woman's Exponent.

Vol. 2.   		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1873.		No. 5


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	TO “KILL time” without danger of disad-
vantage to self, use it up.
	TO GET rid of despondency, perplexity,
and the “blues,” think much of others but
as little as possible of self.
	NO WONDER brooks and rivers can afford
to dance and laugh constantly, and always
sing merry tunes—they have no "up-hill"
work to do.
	PHILADELPHIA has had a lightning
stroke which demolished some of the build-
ings and injured several inhabitants. Such
strikes as that are more to be feared than
those of desperate laborers.
	HIS ROYAL Highness, Prince Alfred
Earnest Albert, Duke of Edinburgh, and
second son of Her Majesty Queen Victoria,
it is announced is to marry a Russian Prin-
cess, the Grand Duchess Mary E. Alexand-
rovona.  And why not?  The Prince is
twenty-nine years old, and his "Mother” has
given her consent.
	SINCE the formation of the Worcester
StateNormal School,Massachusetts,four years
ago, forty-four young ladies have received
diplomas from that school. Forty years
ago, it would have seemed almost an
absurdity for a woman to make an attempt
to graduate at a high school. But woman
advances to the front.
	THE RAVAGES of the cholera in Evanston
Indiana, have been so intolerable as to
nearly depopulate the town, every one flee-
ing from the scourge who could, and vast
numbers perishing, from it. Out of some
large families, it is reported that not more
than two members have been spared alive.
Sympathy is awakened by such suffering
among fellow creatures.
	ONE OF the saddest stories contained In
modern history, is going the rounds of the
newspaper press, concerning a beautiful
maniac murderess of New York, known as
Kate Stoddard, but whose real name is
Lizzie L. King. She is said to have been
united by a mock marriage to Charles Good-
rich, who, after a few years, deserted her and
their baby. Maddened by his cruelty and
neglect, she is supposed to have fired the
fatal shot which ended his earthly career:
yet there hangs a mystery over the circum-
stance of the murder in which a man ly the
name of Roscoe is involved. 
	QUEEN VICTORIA thus answers an address
of the Commons, showing Her Majesty’s
queenly views and womanly feelings on the
subject of international arbitration; “I have
received the address of my faithful Com-
mons, praying that I would be graciously
pleased to instruct my principal secretary to
enter into communication with foreign
powers with a view to further improve in-
ternational law, and establish a general and
permanent system of arbitration.  I am
sensible of the force of the philanthropic
motive dictating that address. I have at all
times desired to extend the practice of
closing international controversies by their
submission to impartial friends, and to
encourage the establishment of rules in-
tended for the equal benefit of all. I shall
continue to pursue a similar course with
due regard to time and opportunity, where-
ever it is likely to be attended with advan-
[-]age."
[new column]
	THERE IS a lady in Plymouth by the name
of Southworth, who lately celebrated her
ninety-sixth birthday; and who in all her
life has neve employed a doctor or known
what it was to be seriously ill. She has
ever entertained a religious horror of idle-
ness, and still works busily for others as well
as herself; having this season spaded and
planted her own garden. This worthy old
lady has evidently been a prudent and wise
laborer, neither going too far and overwork-
ing herself, nor allowing her health to
decline for want of employment—following
none of the extremes so common to the
women of to-day.
	“THE BALANCE,” a woman’s paper pub-
lished in Chicago says in its issue for July:
“The editor of the Salt Lake City EXPONENT
was married on the 16th ult. We are not
informed whether she is Mrs. No. I or No.
12.  If it is a matter of congratulation, we
congratulate her.” We are pleased with
this opportunity for stating that had our
number, in entering upon the matrimonial
stage been Mrs. 2nd 3rd or 12th, we should
have been as prould and happy in acknow-
ledging the same as we are now in ac-
quainting our Chicago friend with the fact
that our position happens to be that of Mrs.
No. 1,—just the next thing to 0. But we
are satisfied—there must be No. 1’s, and
there must be 0’s too, but—poor things!
We hope that does not touch any of our
Chicago sister contemporaries, but are not
informed. Now, we suppose “it” is “a
matter of congratulation,” and that we may
accept the compliment.
	ENGLISH ARTISTS, it appears, are some
times badly treated, notwithstanding the
celebrity of that country for its appreciation
of poetic genius and artistic skill. An
enthusiastic writer on the subject says:
“The Royal Academicians distribute their
favors with a sublime disregard of merit,
and it is half suspected that they judge of
pictures by their knuckles rather than their
eyes. It is said that many of the most
eminent artists in England have had their
pictures rejected by the hanging committee.
Armstrong, Henry Moore, Hennessy, Story,
and even Whistler, are said to be among
the sufferers this year, and if such shall
prove to be the case, we shall have a row
in artistic circles such as has never been
known before. The Royal Academy has
not a history calculated to inspire great
confidence. Some of the magnificent pic-
tures of Turner, which have been eagerly
bought within the last year or so, at from
one thousand to five thousand pounds were
rejected by the Academy; others were badly
hung in the old darkened apartments; but
when the Academicians have been taunted
with thus throwing out of the music so long
frozen in the air by their neglect, they have
replied to the public that they allowed these
pictures to the number of two hundred and
fifty, to be taken away from the walls
because he could not get the small sums at
which he held them, until, during the last
years of his life, Ruskin proclaimed him a
great genius. However, the public affirm
that a royal academy is but a burden, unless
it lead the public taste; whereas, in the case
of Turner, David Cox, and others, it has
been, a follower of the public.  Nor has its
recent history been much better. It never
[new column]
recognized the genius of the late Georg 
Mason until he was dying. And recently
one of the most powerful, though very rea-
listic landscape painters (William Wilson),
died, whose works should have made him
an academician, but will now be sold to
maintain his family.”

	DRESS REFORM is occupying much of the
attention of sound minded women in differ-
ent parts of the world, and different opinions
on the subject are put forth for the consid-
eration of the masses. While some of our
American ladies hold that a woman’s cloth-
ing should, like that of a man’s, be suspended
from the shoulders, a lady in Manchester,
England, writes thus:  “In a man, the
shoulders are the broadest and strongest
parts of his body and his muscular develop-
ment is greatest there. But in a woman,
nature has provided for the burden incident to
womanhood by a great development of the
pelvis arch and surrounding muscles which
are larger than in man.  The center of
muscular and nervous force in a woman lies
in her hips; and weights bearing on the
pelvis arch can be carried more easily than
if they press on any other part of the body.
A woman’s shoulders are weak compared to
those of a man, and the burden of dress laid
upon them would be intolerably oppressive.
I speak from experience, as one whose aim
in dressing is to comply with conventional
requirements at the minimum of inconveni-
ence, and I find that light soft skirts, rest-
ing on the hips and supported by the pelvis
arch, and loose upper clothing that does not
drag from the shoulder or restrict the
freedom of the arms, fulfils the desired
conditions and combines comfort with ele-
gance.” In partial contrariety to this, one
of a committee on dress, of New England
ladies says: “I have said, in referring to our
plan of proceeding, that it seemed to us neces-
sary to define explicitly the evils we deplore,
before seeking their remedies. Of course,
we should all agree that our attire ought
first of all to be healthful; then it should be
beautiful, serviceable, and simple. Tried
by this standard, our present dress is most
unsatisfactory. And, first, it violates health
by its compression of vital parts of the body;
by its weight and the faulty suspension of
this weight; and by the unequal temperature
which it induces. Health would say, “if
your dress is to be tight, let it be tight any-
where but over the region between the
upper, ribs and the hips. If its weight
is to be great, let it hang from the
solid frame work of the shoulders, not from
the sensitive central region where there is
nothing to support it; if any part is to be
overheated, let it be the extremities, and
not this. For here lie the vital organs
whose unimpeded action is essential to your
very life,—the lungs, the heart, the liver,
the stomach and the abdomen, that they
may have the fullest opportunity to expand
and move, they are covered only with loose
flesh and a few moveable bones.” Both
positions are worth reflecting upon, to
women of sense who desire health and
happiness; and the conviction doubtless will
be, of most of them, that the dress should not
be tight, anywhere, and that the weight
suspended from any portion of the body
should be light as possible.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT.
					﻿GRIM DUTY.

		Duty's pathway leads away
		Toward the rising sun;
		The misty morning shadows gray
		Enfold the mountins dun;
		Their hoary peaks long shadows throw,
		Quaint echos dwell among,
		Deep hidden vales send from below
		Wild waters’ ringing song.

		But though the way seems lone and rough,
		'Tis but to waken z al
		In those whose love is warm enough
		True ardor’s fire to feel.
		Though clouds may lower and thunders roar 
		The timid to affright,
		Fa r faith breathes calmly evermore, 
		“Byond this all is light.”

		And Duty’s self, so seeming grim
		Looks ever to the sun;
		Her face is not by pilgrims seen
		Until the goal is won;
		Kike carven stone she pointing stands,
		Unheeding anguished cries;
		The rod she holds in ridgid hands, 
		Affrights the pleading eyes.

		Imagination flutters near,
		Each plain thing to distort,
		To change high courage into fear,
		To smite each heavy heart,
		To paint all things in darkest shade,
		To magnify all ills,
		To bid all hopeful visions fade
		And break the bravest wills. 

		The pearly shades of infant morn 
		Appear foreboding gloom;
		The joyous echoes, sound forlorn
		As wailings o’er a tomb;
		The deeptoned thunder’s mighty peal—
		Majestic voice of power,
		The false one saith are raging fiends
		Wayfarers to devour.

		The gurgling waters in the vales.
		She saith are roaring floods;
		The softly sighing upland gales,
		Storms not to be withstood;
		The gentle slopes appear too steep
		For weary feet to tread,
		And shadows sweet, by mounds asleep,
		Like precipices dread.

		The rustle cool of smmer leaves
		seems like a serpent’s hiss.
		The kind caress which friendship gives,
		A very Judas kiss.
		She weaves her spell for human woe, 
		To turn them from the way,
		That they may not triumphant go
		Through to the land of Day. 

		And busily she flits between
		Weak human eyes and faith
		In duty, who, if fairly seen,
		Is not a mocking wraith
		Delighting in her foll’wers pain
		And smiting with her rod,
		But promising eternal gain
		And pointing up to God.

			And those who follow her sure guide
		Unto the utmost height,
		Behold, entranced, the prospect wide—
		The source of living light,
		The risen sun, the perfect day,
		The glorious halo thrown
		Around the toiler who can say 
		“My work is nobly done.”

		And Duty’s face, with smiles aglow,
		Now meets his ’raptured gaze—
		A “scepter” is the rod she bore!
		And pleasant look the ways
		Which had before so dreadful seemed
		As faintly he toild on;
		The full light sparkles on the streams
		Which sang through misty dawn,
		How vain! how needless were his fears!
		How blind his groping eyes!
		How false that everything was drear
		Which wore sweet duty’s guise!
		A shining angel, there she stands,
		Endowed with beauties rare,
		And points the way with tireless hands,
		To those who struggle there.

		O, Pilgrims! heed the faithful guide 
		Who will so kindly lead
		Your footsteps up the mountain side 
		From fancied terrors freed.
		The mornig breaks, the sun appears,
		No gloom before him dwells;
		Be steadfast through the night of tears
		Which mornig light dispels.
									LU DALTON


R. S. REPORTS.

	Report from Lehi, July 11th 1873: Our
Society is still prospering; the sisters are
united, not only in helping the poor at home,
but alsp doing their best to assist the poor
brethren and sisters in other lands, that
they may come and enjoy some of the bless-
ings we enjoy in these peaceful valleys.
The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor among
us, and we wish more of the sisters could
realize its value. 
	REBECCA STANDRING, Secretary.

	The following comes to hand from Rich-
mond, bearing date July 3rd, 1873; The
Richmond Relief Society was organized
June 4th 1868. We held our annual meet-
ing June 4th the present season and found
our donations to the poor had been liberal,
besides donations to the P. E. Fund and
other purposes, in the last year. We have
"working bees" in Richmond as well as
quiet, listless ones who only attend to their
own household duties and leave the cares of
the Society to the few who are willing to 
work for their own interest and that of the
Kingdom of God. Accept, sincerely our
best wishes in behalf of your worthy enter-
prise
			SARAH ANN MERRILL, Prest.
			BETSY BROWER, Secretary.

			SOUTH COTTONWOOD WARD
						July 15th, 1873
	The following is a brief synopsis of the
minutes of our fourth annual meeting, held
May 17, 1873. Singing, "Arise my soul
arise." Prayer by Bishop Rawlins. Sing-
ing, "How beautious are their feet." The
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted; also accounts of receipts and
disbursements for the year ending May 17th,
1873, which made a very favorable showing.
The Bishop, brother Rawlins, and his
Counselors were present, also sister Kimball
and sister Zina Young from Salt Lake City,
and other sisters from the adjoinging wards
who offered good instrucitons and encourag-
ing words. The spirit of the meeting was
to impress upon the minds of the sisters,
the importance of each one seeking diligently
to carry out the commandments of God,
given in words of ocunsel by President
Brigham Young. They were advised to
take an interest in saving their rags and
assissting to make their own books and
papers, unitedly commencing and maturing
those plans suggested by President Young.
The EXPONENT was also spoken of favorably
and the sisters were advised to aid in sus-
taining it. The subject of educating
children,the way to bring them up in the
ways of truth and righteousness, was treated
upon. All were counseled to have their
children learn some good trade; the boys to
learn stone cutting, farming carpentering,
blacksmithing, and any other good and useful
trade; and the girls to be taught type set-
ting, how to print, dressmaking and such
suitable works. The Bishop said the sisters
were to go ahead in the great work they
had commenced and he would give them en-
couragement and help them all he could.
The President, Sister Cahoon, is a good,
faithful Saint, striving to carry out and 
perform all the duties belonging to her.
The sisters are united in good feelings and
are striving to do all they can to prove they
know that it is woman's portion to be full of
charity, to seek out the oppressed, the ppor
the widoe and the orphan and impart to
them of her substance. The meeting was
adjourned untill the second Thursday in
June at one o'clock. Singing "The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning." Benediction by
Brother Maxfield.
	Counselor MRS. ANN E. LABRUM, Secre-
tary.

	At Ogden, July 10th, 1873, Professor
Monch’s School Examination and the meet-
ing of the Relief Society being held the
same day, it was thought best by President
F. D. Richards, that they should unite and
both lx conducted in the City Hall.
	The ladies of the Society met at two
o’clock. Also some of the leading men of
Ogden. The classes of the school were
brought in in their respective orders under
the supervision of the Professor. Much of
the reciting was done in consert, in a man-
ner highly creditable to both Teacher and
scholars. After the recitations of the
classes, the audience listened with much
interest to the singing of some of the girls
and a declamation by Mr. C. Richards, which
were promptly and well executed. Also a
piece, “The Modocs,” by a young gentle-
man which deserved credit. A dialogue
was read by Mr. Brown and Miss Hill with
spirit and energy and received much ap-
plause. The “School Paper” was read by
Miss Delecta Ballantyne. Remarks were
made by President F. D. Rishards, W. W.
Burton, D. H. Peery and others; expressing
pleasure and satisfaction with the afternoon’s
entertainment, also congratulating Professor
Monch on his success and abilities as a
Teacher. Professor Monch made some ap-
propriate remarks to his scholars and vistors.
He has been energetic and untiring- in
establishing a first class school in Ogden;
and deserves the warmest thanks of the
residents of that place.
	The afternoon exercises were closed with
prayer by President F. D. Richards. 
	The scholars were left in charge of their
Teacher, and the Society under the direction
of Mrs. J. S. Richards, President, to trans
act any necessary business. The meeting
of the Society was adjourned for two weeks.
								A. M. F.


	From Nephi. Editor Woman’s Ex-
ponent,—June 23rd was the day for our
annual meeting, but owing to the house
being occupied, our meeting was postponed
till the 28th, when we met according to
adjournment. Order was called by Counse-
lor Elizabeth Kendall; after singing and
prayer, many good remarks were made by
the brethren and sisters present, exhorting
all to faithfulness and diligence and en-
couraging all in every good word and work.
Our financial report shows that we are pro-
gressing but slowly; still we are trying to do
the best we can, not only in worldly matters
but also in trying to give a word of advice
to those who are in need. We realize that
it is the faithful few who will gain the
promised blessings, while the larger portion
neglect the duties that belong to them, and
seem to think them of miner consequence.
Sucli must inevitably come short of obtaining
the glory that the faithful will attain ito.
Our much loved President is upheld and
sustained by her counselors, the Board of
Teachers, Secretary and Treasurer, with
many more faithful sisters in the Society
AMELICA GOLDS BROUGH, President.
ELIZABETH KENDALL, 
JANE PICTON,		Counselors
A. L. BIGLER, Secretary, 
SARAH ANN ANDREWS, Treasurer.

	Report of the Fifth Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society of Wellsvillo, Cache Co.,
July 11th, at 2 o’clock p. m. Bishop William
Maughan with several other brethren, and
President Mrs M. A. Maughan of Logan


City were present. The financial report for
the year was read and approved.  We have
given to the needy, one hundred dollars and 
seventy cents, and have three shares in
the Co-operative Mercantile store, four
shares in the Co-operative Milliners store and
a balance in the Treasury of two hundred
and thirty-five dollars and eighty-five cents.
Bishop Wm. Maughan said he was very
thankful to the sisters for their labors since
the organization of the Society, and hoped
they would continue in doing good; spoke
of the great privileges they enjoyed and
gave good counsel.  Sister M. A. Maughan
said she would exhort the sisters to faithful-
ness, to attend meetings regularly and be
diligent in attending to the wants of the
poor.  Several of the brethren made encourag-
ing remarks.  All present seemed to be
satisfied with the meeting, and we con-
cluded our Fifth Anniversary with a party
in the evening which was a decided success.
MRS. ELLEN WHITON, President,
MRS. MARGARET WOODWARD,
MRS. MARTHA HOWELL,         }Counselors,
MRS. MARIA PARKINSON, Secretary, 
MRS. ANN JONES, Treasurer.
		    _____
		CENTERVILLE, June 21st, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our first meeting of the Relief Society,
after receiving notice, we took a vote which
was unanimous, to drop the word “Female”
from our Relief Society.
				 M. C. Adams, Secretary.
				    —
	The 62nd meeting of the Senior and
Junior Co-operative Retrenchment Associ-
ation of Salt Lake City, was held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms on the afternoon of
Saturday, July 17th, 1873, presided over by
Mrs. M. I. Horne, President.  After the
usual ceremonies of singing, prayer and
reading of the minutes, Sister Horne made
remarks: She presumed all present felt the
same as she did, rejoiced at having Sister
Snow again in our midst. They all had heard
what President Young had counseled at
the April Conference in relation to women
and girls being taught to set type and learn-
ing to prepare their own school books,
nothing yet had been done in the matter,
but it was desired that the Presidents of
Relief Societies should ascertain who in
their Wards would come forward and learn
to set type as a stepping-stone to greater
things.  The Retrenchment girls were as
reliable as any the speaker knew of.
	Counselor Mrs.  B.  W.  Smith said the
President had suggested to her that three
women from each Ward in the city be
chosen to form a class for studying physi-
ology and obstetrics.  Also that one woman
from each settlement be sent to the city to
study the same branches, and that the
Bishops see that such women be supported.
	Counselor Z.  D.  Young said she would
like to have the Spirit of the Lord, that what
she said might go to the hearts of her sisters.
They should all consider themselves mission-
aries in the Kingdom, the things which had
been suggested were not trifles, they were
principles that meant “work,” and must be
laid hold of in- earnest.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow made remarks. She
was looking upon a congregation belonging
to a people who were blessed above all
others on the face of the earth: she felt
more honored than she had done when
walking through princely palaces. When
she looked at the superstition of the world,
she thought if the sisters could realize their
high position and be awake to their duties,
they would, many of them, be more ener-
getic and seek more for faith and unity.
Was thankful that so many were proving
[new column]
themselves faithful.  It was hard, some-
times, to convince persons who had been
prejudiced against the Mormons, that they
did not know more about the people here, 
and their doings, than those who had been
associated with them for forty years; they
would have it that the women of Utah were 
enslaved and trodden down. She had many
times remarked to gentlemen of the press
that no where on earth had women so broad
a sphere of action or so much liberty as in
Utah.  She remarked to an editor in New
York that it was disgraceful for men like
himself, whom people looked to and had right
to look to for enlightenment and the truth,
to publish so many falsehoods about a people
so well known as were the Mormons; there
was no excuse for their doing so, any one
might learn the truth of a people so much
talked about. She was ashamed of the
American press. She wished the sisters to
appreciate the freedom they had, and when
a convention was held for the purpose of
electing officers all the women should go
and join their votes. Each of their votes
counted one the same as that of any
man, of however great importance. She
was proud of her sisters, those who were
seeking to know and perform their duties
in assisting to build up the Kingdom of
God; urged upon them the necessity of their
being studious and active, and encouraging
and strengthening each other; thanked and
blest them all for their kind faith made
manifest in her behalf, and the love they
had shown her.  Hoped they would all be
on hand to help carry out the requirements
which had been made of them.
	Some business matters were attended to,
after which meeting adjourned for two
weeks; dismissed with singing, and prayer
by Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young.
					M. M. Groo, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

  Keeping Children Busy: These rest-
less little mortals are quiet only when they
are asleep, and often not even then, for in
dreams they are playing croquet, or gallop-
ing on horseback, or fondling their dolls.
They need playthings just as much as they
require bread and milk, and shoes and
clothes. Many parents, thinking they can-
not afford time or money to provide amuse-
ment and occupation for their little ones,
leave them to shift for themselves and hunt
up their own toys. So Jhonnie gets into
mamma’s bureau or closet, and enjoys the
muss he makes there more than he sorrows
over the punishment that follows it. As he
grows older, jack-knife and foot rule, ham-
mer and saw, gimlet and drawing knife,
screw driver and pinchers, will be in requi-
sition to make his bows and arrows, his
ships and carts. Little Susie will take her
mamma’s needles and thread, her buttons
and scissors, and leave her work basket in
sad disorder unless all these article are
given to Susie for her own special use. With
a work-box and needle book, a pair of scis-
sors, and occasional supervision of her
mother, Susie may gradually be initiated
into all the mysteries of darning, overseam-
ing, hemming, and back stitch. We all
know that children are very anxious to do
what they cannot do, but this inclination,
which is frequently quite annoying, may be
turned to good account. Instead of driving
them away, let them be taught the difficul-
ties of what they wish to undertake, the
best way of overcoming them, and let them
lend a helping hand In doing the coveted
thing till they can be intrusted to do it
alone. Every boy should learn the use of
tools, and be able to drive a nail properly,
[new column]
to push the saw and shove the plane, to
make a button for a door, and exercise his
ingenuity in the manufacture of hanging
baskets, brackets, rustic benches, sleds and
bows. Though what he does may be a
failure, it may lead to ultimate success.-Ex.
  Tender Feet. The following is said to
be a remedy for tender feet: One table-
spoonful of carbonate of soda disolved in a
half pint of cold water. The feet are to be
sponged with the solution night and morn-
ing.
Potash Water is the quickest cure for
wasp stings: a small quantity should be kept
in a glass-stoppered bottle. Open the sting
with a needle, and put on one drop of the
potash water.
Cure for Sore Throat.—Mix a quarter
of an ounce of saltpeter, finely pulverized,
with three ounces of pure honey. Dilute it
with vinegar, and use it as a gargle. Or
take a small spoonful of it into the mouth
occasionally and let it disoive slowly.
Cement for Filling Cracks in Furni-
ture.—Moisten a piece of recently burnt
lime with enough water to make it fall to
powder; mix one part of the slaked lime
with two parts of rye flour, and a sufficient
quantity of boiled linseed oil to form it into
a thick plastic mass.
To mend China, take a thick solution
of gum arabic in water, and stir it into
plaster of Paris, until the mixture is of a
proper consistency. Apply to the fractured
edges of the China, and stick them together.
In three days the articls cannot be broken
in the same place. The whiteness of the
cement renders it doubly valuable.
The following rule for churning will seem
an absurdity to many, but it is given by an
experienced dairy tender: The night before
churning, put the cream in a tin to stand in
a furnace of warm water, which should gradu-
ally reach boiling heat, until the cream is
scalding hot, stirring it occasionally while
it is heating. Then take the tin out of the
water, pour the cream into another vessel,
and let as much as possible of the steam
from it escape. Stir it also once or twice
while cooling; keep it in a warmer tempera-
ture than in the dairy until churned next
morning. This removes all disagreeable
taste from any kind of food taken by the
cows, and was never known to fail in mak-
ing good butter come in from twenty to forty
minutes’ churning.


﻿A widow lady sitting beside a cheerful fire
in a meditative mood, shortly after her hus-
band's decease, sighed out, “Poor fellow!
How he did like a good fire! I hope he has
gone where they always keep good fires.”
	Young mother: “Don’t” give the baby
soothing syrup. When he cries undress
him and rub him gently all over. Give
him plenty of room to kick and expand.
We are afraid you fasten his clothes too
tightly. Give him clear cold water freely
this hot weather. He won’t need medicine
if you don’t overwork yourself and will
abstain from nostrums and late hours, and
will indulge plentifully in plain, nutritious
food. Mush and milk and graham bread
and butter will make better food for the
baby both in quality and quantity than all
the tea and ale and beer and other slops you
can swallow. Learn a lesson from the cows
that roam the prairies and the calves that
play in the barn-yard. Your baby needs no
more nostrums than your calf and you need
beer and other slops of the kind just as badly
as old brindle does, and no worse. Don’t
get angry. We only mean what we say.
—“New North West.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

			    L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 	Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
		
		SALT LAKE CITY, August 1, 1873.


SPLINTERS.

	Copenhagen is agitated over the presence
of an American woman, who claims con-
nection by marriage, with the royal house
of Denmark and Great Britain......A Mis-
souri Marshal has a young lady in custody
who has for two years, off and on, passed for
a boy. She was arrested for horse stealing,
but her virtue is unquestionable......Taxpay-
ing women of New York have had an
indignation meeting in consequence of the
adverse decision of Judge Hunt in the Susan
B. Anthony case......Rebecca W. Eastbrook,
a well known writer for Harpers Monthly
and other periodicals, died July 11th..........
Victoria Woodhull is convalescent and has
been for some time hard at work again in
the purlieus of high places......The wardrobe
of a theatrical performer in St. Louis was
recently seized and sold on account of a
failure on his part to fulfill a contract for
playing......A number of counties in Ohio,
Indiana, and Illinois have lost by recent
storms as high as $100,000 each......Frank
Walworth has been taken to Sing Sing.......
In Alcoy, Spain, three thousand factory
hands have struck for less hours and higher 
wages......The Lincoln club of New York
has ordered a copy of the bust of Horace
Greeley, lately furnished by Miss Edmonia
Lewis, and greatly admired......Records of
crime and calamities fill more columns than
all other subjects.......Mile Beccari, an Italian
lady, is the editor of the Woman’s Rights
paper published at Venice......London has
opened a laboratory for the use of ladies
studying experimental chemistry.........M.
Faure of Paris, has had a sale of pictures,
which brought him the sum of half a mil-
lion francs......The Chinese have a custom
of throwing rice after a newly made bride.
......The Malta opera house has been de-
stroyed by fire......The Right Rev. Samuel
Wilberforce fell from his horse and broke
his neck, while riding with Earl Granville,
in London, recently......An attempt to assas-
sinate a French Marshal while he was walking
on the grounds of his villa at Birrittz, was
made a few days since, but was not success-
ful, the guilty party being arrested......On
the gulf coast of Mexico, the yellow fever is
making sad ravages......Judge Wright, of
Washington is charged with having nine-
teen times, misappropriated money which
was put in his hands for Indian purposes.
......Kate Stodard of New York, arrested for
the murder of Charles Goodrich, is said to
be a beautiful woman, wan and weary look-
ing, with pensive blue eyes and golden
tresses......A Chinaman in San Francisco,
whose washhouse was broken into by
rioters, fired three revolver shots among
them, when they fled in dismay, not being
prepared for such a reception......Vera Cruz
has caught the cholera......In Virginia the
school population is 411,021, of whom
247,002 are white.......Mr. and Mrs. Fleming,
of San Francisco, have sued the California
Pacific Rail Road Company for $25,000, for
a son of theirs being killed through the
carelessness of an agent on the road......The
Captain of a ship, lately landed on the
pacific coast, has had to pay $17,000 for
bringing a number of Chinamen more than
the size of the vessel allowed and $50 more
for ill treatment to one of his seamen......A Mr.
Richardson is exploring Vancouver Island,
with a view to the ultimate construction of
a branch railroad to Albernia......It appears
that the medical virtues of fish oil for lung
complaint have been known among the
Chinese for centuries, but they make use of
the chad instead of the codfish........A new
method for making boot and shoe heels
has been invented by a man of Leeds,
England; it will be well if they are to be
formed in a more common-sense style than
those in use at present......A man in Califor-
nia walked off the Railroad Exchange in
his sleep and woke up fifteen feet below;
his injuries were severe, probably fatal......
Cincinnati, Ohio, will have an Industrial
Exposition to open, September 3rd and
close October 4th......A Louisville policeman
named Gannon recently shot his wife, kil-
ling her almost instantly......An extensive
collection and preparation of mosses, made
by the late William S. Sullivant was
bequeathed to Harvard University........
Phineas Allen, Jr., for many years the
editor of the Pittsfield, Mass., “Sun,” died
in that town on the Fourth of July. The
“Sun” which was established in 1800, was
founded by and preserved in the Allen family
for a period of seventy-two years.....A Balti-
more machinist, Thomas Winans, is build-
ing for his private music hall, a gigantic
organ, to be worked by steam power and
tended to far surpass the great organ of Boston.
The Newton gas well, discovered last year, six
miles from Titusville, Pa., issues at the rate of
three millions of cubic feet of gas every ay of
twenty-four hours; it is pronounced the
greatest gas well in the world......It has been
discovered that tin possesses many considera-
tions of fitness for stopping carious teeth,
not held in gold........A fossil corn shuck was
lately found in Missouri, 30 feet below the
surface, imbedded in clay......Some of the
women lecturers on the Pacific coast are
taking strong grounds against Chinese im-
migration.......The real name of Kate Stod-
dard, the alleged murderess, is Lizie L.
King.


LADIES’ ASSOCIATIONS.

	A PLEA FOR THEIR HOLDING MEETINGS.

Not unfrequently do we hear such expressions
as the following, from the lips of unreflecting
ladies, more especially the young and noncha-
lant. “I think a woman’s place is at home,
looking after her own affairs, instead of being
off at these meetings.”
	However, these thoughts do not appear to
trouble them while they are “somewhere else,”
gossiping, perhaps, or idling precious time
away in some light manner.
	The questions may be propounded with pro-
priety, have such ladies ever attended the
meetings, held hy the Relief Societies and
Retrenchment Associations, in this city and
the settlements throughout the Territory? Have
they any ideas concerning the teachings given,
or the benefits to be derived from the many
wise suggestions made by women of experience
and profundity? Benefits in all forms which
the gaining of understanding comprises. Do
they realize that by attending these meetings,
they may learn in a few moments time, things
that may prove to be of the greatest value to
them at some future period? Or receive some
intimation that may help them out of present
difficulties if they happen to be in them?
	All young children are liable to take cold
and be choked with croup. If a child be so
afflicted whose mother attended the Retrench-
ment meeting where a remedy for it was stated,
that little one is spared the pain of suffocation
for the seemingly long time it would take to
send for “grandma” or “auntie.” For its
mother knows as well as another, that pulver-
ized alum mixed with honey and given to her
child, and a piece of thick brown paper satu-
rated with oil and placed upon the lungs, will
afford it relief. Then, there is so much time,
trouble and suffering, and probably the life of
an infant saved by a mother’s having gone to
meeting. 
	She might have learned so simple a lesson at
home, had some one chanced to acquaint her
with it. But it should be remembered that
while she was learning it at meeting, a hun-
dred others, perhaps, were learning it at the
same time, who otherwise might never have
heard of it.
	“The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
wisdom.” Does a woman, professing to belong
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, manifest fear of offending the Lord
when she treats lightly the commandments
which He gives for the guidance of His people,
through the mouths of His Prophets? When
cast down and troubled in spirit, can she go to
Him for strength and consolation, with the
same faith she might have enjoyed had she 
joined with her sisters in seeking wisdom from
the only proper source, and given a portion of
her time to instruct and bless others? All may
seem bright and fair with her at times, but it
will not always be so. And when her trials
and temptations come, she can call on others
for aid and sympathy much more graciously
if she has imparted freely of the light with
which she was blest formerly. Or if she has
associated much with intelligent women possess-
ing the Spirit of God and full of integrity,
holding sweet counsel with them, and treasur-
ing up wisdom, she will be better prepared to
sustain herself and to assist others in hours of
adversity.
	Want of time is the excuse made by many
for neglecting these important social duties; but
time is saved more frequently than lost by
observing them.
	“Work! work! work!” has been too long a
motto not clearly understood. Labor is honor-
able in all, but not constant, unmitigated
drudgery, performed with the idea of laying up
treasures and amassing a fortune.
	Application to work is healthful training for
every individual. But there should be a diver-
sity of employment; and there is no better
change of work for woman, than that from
household cares and duties, to social industry,
of an instructive and enlivening character,
such as will aid in all other labors, cheering
and blessing, and quickening all the faculties,
so that after requirements are performed with
greater ease and more satisfaction.


﻿SALUTATION TO THE LADIES OF
				UTAH.

		SALT LAKE CITV, July 14, 1873.
Beloved Sisters in the faith of the Gospel of the
Son of God:
	It is impossible for me to express the joy and
gratitude of my heart, in being once more in
your midst; in the gathering place of the
honest of heart. While absent, I have ever
felt a degree of pride and thankfulness, that
my home was in Utah—in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains of America. Whatever
others, in their ignorance might imagine, we
“know,” that in Utah, are associated the best
and noblest spirits that are tabernacled in the


flesh—that here, the highest order of intelli-
gence is obtained, and society organized in a
purer and more perfect form than anywhere
else on earth.
	With what sacred feelings I now realize that
I am at home, surrounded by, and associated
with the Saints of God, many of whom I have
already met with warm, affectionate greetings,
and now avail myself of the medium of the Ex-
ponent, our excellent household paper, for
extending to many others, with whom oppor-
tunities may not soon admit of personal
interviews, my most cordial greeting, accom-
panied with love and blessing.
	Thanks, my dear Sisters, for your faith and
prayers, through which, in a great measure, I
attribute the blessings of God in the wonderful
prosperity which, from first to last, attended
the party of tourists, of which I have the
honor of having been a member. We have
traveled twelve thousand miles by water, and
nearly or quite, thirteen thousand by land,
without accident, and without a single failure
in making connection, either with steamer or
railroad; and safely home.
	What an honor to be associated with those
who are co-workers with God in establishing a
Government of peace and purity! The more I
see of the world, the more I realize the necessity
of a more perfect form of Government than
exists among the nations of the earth; and how
gratifying it is to a sympathizer with oppressed
humanity, to “know” that God has now intro-
duced His own authority and is establishing
His Kingdom, and that all who will, have the
privilege of assisting in this great work. A
work of the most important interest to the
living and the dead—one which confers on
living men and women, the highest possible,
responsibilities.
	While abroad I often encountered the absurd
idea, which many seem unwilling to relinquish,
that here, woman is held in a state of vassalage
—“down-trodden,” etc., etc., to which I invari-
ably, opposed the “fact” that nowhere on earth,
woman has as large responsibilities, and wields
as much influence as with the Latter-day
Saints. You, my Sisters, who are awake to
your callings and your duties, will readily sub-
scribe to the foregoing; while perhaps, a few,
who have no other thought of the object of their
present existence, than that they are born to be
idle curiosities, or playthings of human life—to
trifle away time in selfish vanity; see no good
and noble position for woman to qualify herself
to fill; and make light of the most important
labors.
	We know that inasmuch as we labor for the
Kingdom of God, our reward is sure, though all
else should perish. Let us work on—laboring
for "the things which make for peace,” faith,
hope, charity and perseverence in the path of
perfection, until we shall be prepared for the
presence of holy beings.
	Your Sister in the New and Everlasting
Covenant, 
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE COMING FAIR

	The Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society, offers suitable premiums for the finest 
specimens of workmanship and home industry
which may be presented at the Territorial Fair,
to be held in this city on the days of the 2nd, 
3rd, 4th 6th, 7th and 8th of October next; a
considerable portion of which are designed to
particularly interest the ladies and aid in
eliciting their broadest endeavors to do their
best in assisting to render the forthcoming
occasion a brilliant success.
	The following are lists of prizes intended for
﻿best specimens of work mostly performed by
ladies, accompanied by names of committees:

		CLASS T.—Ladies’ Work.
Supervisory Committee.—ENOCH REESE.

		AWARDING COMMITTEE,
Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs. W. B. Wilkin-
son, Mrs. S. Young, Mrs. Merinda Hyde,
Mrs. Bulah A. Beattie, Mrs. L. W. Rich-
		ards, Miss M. E. Cook.

Best collection of useful and ornamental
	articles produced by any Relief So- 
	ciety..........................Diploma
"  		specimen of ornamental needle-
	work .....................................................$2 00
“  	specimen of Ayrshire needle work.........2 00
“  	ottoman cover ........................................2 00
“  	worked lace collar..................................2 00
“ 	worked cushions.....................................2 00
“ 	specimen of silk embroidery,.................3 00
“ 	specimen of worsted embroidery...........2 00
“ 	crochet work.........................................  2 00
Best knit work................................... ..........  2 00
“	specimen bead work..............................2 00
“      "  of tatting..,..........................................2 00
“.     " braiding...............................................2 00
“      " of transferred needle work..................2 00
“ 	specimen toilet mats,.............................2 00
“     "      lamp        ".......................................2 00
“ 	fancy card basket,..................................2 00
The most neatly dressed doll by a girl
	under 14 years.......................................3 00
The best specimen hand sewing, by a girl
	under 14 years.......................................2 00
The best specimen of darning, by a girl
	under 15 years of age,...........................2 00
Best display of dress making,...................... 3 00
"        "          "   millinery,.............................3 00
" 	suit of boy’s clothes,................... .......  3 00
“	patch-work quilt.................................  3 00
“	woolen quilt.......................... ............  2 00
“	white quilt,.........................................  3 00
“	ladies straw hat, .......... .....................  2 00
“	gent’s straw hat,.................................  2 00
“	ladies straw bonnet, .............. ...........  3 00
“	assorted straw braids,     ..... .............  2 00
"	vase of wax flowers...... ...................  3 00
“	boquet of wax flowers,......................  2 00
"	colored artificial flowers,..................  2 00
“	shell work,.........................................  3 00
“	woolen socks,....................................  1 00
“	cotton socks,.....................................  1 00

		CLASS U.—Produce.

SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE. - JOHN READ-
				ING.

		Awarding Committee,
	Myron Tanner, Daniel Grenig,
		   Robert Campbell.
Best cheese one year old and not over
	two, ................................................... 8 00
“	cheese under one year old, ............... 5 00
"	and largest display of cheese.......Diploma
"	lot of ten pounds of butter in rolls....  5 00
“	tub or firkin of butter not less than
“	twenty-five pounds and three months
“	old ....................................................  5 00
“	and largest display of butter.......Diploma
“	four loaves of baker’s bread, not less
“	than 48 hours old, ....... ....................  2 00
“	butter crackers, five pounds,.............  2 00
“	sweet soda biscuits,...........................  2 00
Best bread made by a girl under 16 years
	old,........................ ...........................  2 00
"	domestic corn bread made by a girl
  	under 16 years old,........ ................... 2 00
"	domestic white bread made by a girl
	under 16 years old,...........................  2 00
"	one quart from ten quarts of wine,.... 3 00


﻿THE GENERAL ELECTION.

	A Convention composed of gentlemen and
ladies was held in this city on the 19th ult., for
the purpose of nominating candidates for Coun-
selors to the next Legislative Assembly,
and also other officers to be elected at the forth-
coming general eletion. A committee of
nine, comprising seven gentlemen and two
ladies, after consultation, presented for candi-
dates the following names which the Conven-
tion unanimously accepted.
	For Commissioners to locate University lands:
John Van Cott, Lewis S. Hills and John Row-
berry.


﻿For Counselors: Wilford Woodruff, William
Jennings, William H. Hooper and John T.
Caine.
	For Selectman for Salt Lake county. E. M.
Weiler.
	For Coroner for Salt Lake county: George J.
Taylor.
	Appropriate speeches were made by Messrs. E.
L. Sloan and George Q. Cannon. We do not go so
far on the woman suffrage qeuestion as does Hen-
ry Ward Beecher; that is, to say that it should be
not only the right but the duty of women to
vote, and if any woman does not want to vote
she should be compelled to do so. But we
think those women of Utah act wisely, who
seek to understand, and show their appre-
ciation of the rights granted them. And on
Monday next, the 4th inst., which is the day
appointed for General Election throughout the
Territory, every woman who has arrived at
the proper age specified for voting, should go to
the polls, taking care she does not get tricked
by any plan which may be laid for the decep-
tion of the inexperienced and unsuspecting,
and vote the People’s Ticket.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	Mrs. M. J. Woodward, writing from Foun-
tain Green, Sanpete County, informs us that in
that vicinity good health and a good spirit
generally prevails; the meetings held by the
home missionaries being well attended. Crops,
this season, are going to be light there.
	No Public notice was paid to the Twenty-
sixth Anniversary of the entrance of th[-] Pio-
neers into the valley of the Great Salt Lake, by
the people of this city. Yet, due respect was
shown to the never-to-be-forgotten day, as it
was generally observed as a holiday, and passed
off in a peaceful and orderly manner, private
parties, pic-nics and quiet excursions being
indulged in by many, who as formerly, d light
in remembering the “Twenty-Fourth.”
	Ogden made a pleasant demonstration in
honor of the entry of the Pioneers into the val-
ley, 25 years ago, on Thursday, the Twenty-
Fourth ult., a number of denizens from this
city and adjacent settlements participating
There was firing of cannon, hoisting of national
Colors with salute, music and all the prelimin-
aries, followed by an assembling together of
citizens and visitors at Jones’ Grove, where an
entertaining season was spent in the enjoyment
of music, songs, speeches, prayer, etc., and danc-
ing in the afternoon and evening. The hospi-
tality of the good people of Ogden, it may be
remarked, is unsurpassed.
	Two serious accidents have but recently
occurred on the Utah railroads, one on the
Southern, by which Mr. Philip Lewis, of Lehi,
suffered the grievous loss of an arm, the other
on the Northern, at or near Ogden, which was
the cause of a like affliction to an emigrant
lady, just arrived, who, we understand to be
the widowed mother of two or three children.
And both these accidents we are informed were
the results of trying to get on or off the cars
when the trains were in motion. Too great
care cannot be taken by persons in going about
so firy and unscrupulous a steed as the iron
horse; lessons should be gleaned from observa-
tion, and much suffering might be thus avoided.


Remember that a raw egg will clear your
throat of fishbones. Put one in a little hot
wine, add some sugar, and the fishbones
will slip down all the easier. P. S. You
can take the egg, wine and sugar anyhow.
They’re good as a preventive; and you
don’t know what moment you may get a fish
bone in your throat.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

				ST. LOUIS, June 20, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Dear Lula.—When writing you last,
which was on the ocean, I did not anticipate
either time or opportunity for communica-
tion with you again, while on my way home,
but, in consequence of the extreme piety of
this infidel age, we are in this great, live
city, detained over Sunday. We arrived
here yesterday morning from Kansas, where
we found our youngest brother, whom we
had not seen for more than twenty years—
he was then a boy, now the father of a large
and promising family, and located on a farm
one half mile square, in a beautiful rolling
prarie country, commanding a view both
grand and magnificent, extending as far as
the eye can reach. I think I never saw a
finer or more picturesque landscape scenery,
while the soil is rich and very productive,
situated five miles from Osage Mission, the
R. R. station for that section.
	But more about St. Louis. We, i. e. my
brother Lorenzo and I intended leaving last
evening, but are detained till 10 to night,
the hour admitted as the close of the Sab-
bath, which, despite the sacred rest alloted
the R. R. trains, is decidedly a day of bustle
recreation and hilarity. While writing, my
ears are saluted with almost every sound
imaginable-bands of instrumental music
playing in various directions—the rumble of
street cars, which are loaded to their utmost
capacity, constantly on the track, conveying
gay pleasure seekers to different points—
picnics by land and picnics by water being
a prominent order of the day—groups of
people are promenading the sidewalks, while
processions are marching on the streets; but
the R. R. trains must not profane the Sab-
bath.
	When we left New York, my brother and
I proceeded directly to the place, in the
State of Ohio, where he was born, and where
both were brought up—the place of our
childhood and our youth—also neighboring
towns and countries. I had been absent
thirty-seven years; my brother had returned
once, within that time. Very many of our
relatives and friends have “gone the way
of all the earth” since we left, and every
thing of remembrance has yielded to the
strokes of the battle-ax of changeful Time.

	Our former, loved associates,
		Have mostly pased away;
	While those we knew as children
		Are crowned with locks of gray.

	We saw Time’s varied traces,
		Were deep on every hand— 
	Indeed, upon the people,
		More mark’d, than on the land.

	The hands that once, with firmness, 
		Could grasp the ax and blade,
	Now move with trembling motion, 
		By strength of nerve decay’d

	The change in form and feature,
		And furrows on the cheek;
	Of time’s increasing volume,
		In plain, round numbers speak, 

	And thus, as in a mirror’s
		Reflection, we were told,
	With stereotyp’d impressions,
		The fact of growing old.

	Those of our relatives and acquaintances
who remain, received us with affectionate
cordiality—indeed it was one continued
ovation from first to last, through the
counties of Portage, Granga, Cuyahoga and
Loraine, where we went; even children,
born since we left that country, came dis-
tances to see and converse with us, the
former friends of their deceased parents.
Having been so long abroad, we felt anxious
to return home; at the same time, being
anxious to see as many of our friends and
relatives as possible, we visited night and
day—going from place to place in rapid
succession. I am inclined to think that so
much visiting, was never before, done in so
little time.
	We succeeded in gathering many genealo-
gies both of the dead and the living; and,
we think, in many instances, have renewed
friendships—revived and created associa-
tions that will extend into eternity. We
feel that God is with us, and humbly trust
that His blessing will attend our efforts.
					Eliza R. Snow.
	P. S. By mistake, the foregoing failed
of being mailed in St. Louis, and when the
mistake was discovered, it was loo late to
precede our arrival. If you find anything
in it worthy of notice, it is at your disposal.
							E. R. S.


EVER THINE, WISHES TO SPEAK.

MY DEAR MRS. GREEN RICHARDS:—
	Will you permit Ever Thine to address a
few words in behalf of the young ladies
through the columns of your paper? Of
course it is not to be presumed that the
gentlemen will read it, so she is quite safe
in saying whatever she pleases about them.
And, girls, you must not tell any of your
beaux or brothers, of some suggestions Ever
Thine may make before she finishes this
article; for if she had cared to let them
know her sentiments on certain points, she
could have spoken through the "Evening
News" or "Morning Herald" more than
a month ago, when her indignation was first
aroused upon the subject of which she is
about to treat. Ever Thine was provoked
by reading a little item in "Home Affairs"
in the EXPONENT for June 15th, at finding
therein illustrated the inexcusable ignorance
of gentlemen who are styled "sensible."
Reference is made to the following:
	"A lady of this city speaks of having
accidentally overheard a group of sensible
gentlemen, commenting on the taste dis-
played and the waste indulged in by a 
portion of the 'coming women.' They 
counted over their wages and then the cost
of supporting a wife, and concluded they
could not marry."
	Now, dear editor, does it occur to your
mind that so foolish a conclusion could
be arrived at by gentlemen of good sense?
It looks as though they had eyes that could
only see the vain and silly ones among
women, that's certain. Concluded “they”
could not marry because there were girls in
the world, and in this city even, whose
extravagance would consume more than
their—the young gentlemen’s—income! It
is no more absurd to infer that because there
are men, and many of them, who smoke
cigars, drink whisky, and allow the women
folks to support their families, that all men
do, or would do the same, than it is to sup-
pose the leading trait in the character of
every woman, to be vanity and love of dis-
play, because too many women give occasion
by their manner of dress and conversation,
for the opinion to be formed that they care
for nothing else. But Ever Thine knows
better than to believe either one. Your
paper says farther, as if in commendation of
the superior taste and judgement of these
stayed gentlemen:
	"Besides, it is disgusting to them to see
so little sense manifested by beings who
should be intelligent."
	Well, admitting that the dress of certain
female classes now-a-days is most disgusting,
is that any reason why a man should be
disgusted with all woman kind and conclude
not to marry? Why don't more of these
[new column]
"sensible," modesty loving specimens of
masculine propriety, look after the genuine,
whole souled, pure minded, marriageable
women, who are waiting on every hand for
"some one to love, and to love them”—for
husbands? Do they know that a portion of
the censure that falls upon many a lovely,
virtuous girl, who meets the misfortune to
be wooed and wiled away by some villainous
wretch, wearing the appearance of a man,
and a gentleman, is often due them for their
calm indifference and indisposition to marry?
Girls will be courted and women will marry.
They must have something to love. This
element is as innate with them as is the
instinctive clinging to life. If some have
resolution sufficient to control, and, perhaps
deaden this native inhabitant of the heart,
some also can become so distracted as to
commit suicide. And as almost any style of 
living will be generally endured, ere the
latter is resorted to, so also an inferior
marriage will often be preferred to no
marriage at all.
	But Ever Thine need not sermonize the
girls, who know every word she has written
to be truth so far as it extends. She would
exhort them, though, to be wise, and
patient and charitable; and while the young
men who might be worth having stand aloof
and consider no woman near enough perfect
for them, to let such straightforward fellows
choose their own way, but not to throw
themselves away on wine-bibbers or idle
"good-for-nothings." A prudent girl need
have no fears but that she will marry well,
if she only waits in quiet trust. By and
bye a great many of these "sensible" young
men will find there are no wives for them,
for they would not marry fashionable but-
terflies if they could, and could not if they 
would, and all the other girls will have tired
of waiting and married in plurality. There,
how's that for an indignant school girl?
					EVER THINE.


IDEAL HUSBANDS.

	A writer in the "Saturday Review" says:
Of course one would not like to see women 
give themselves to any one, no matter who
he be, for the sake of getting married; but
the solid things of life should be taught
them as well as its poetic beauties; and false
hopes, false ideals, unsubstantial loves,
should be rigorously excluded. A bad
marriage or a loveless life is not a pleasant
"coda" to that never-acted romance; nor is
the disenchantment which comes with such
cruel certainty on the heels of the lovesick
and unsuitable marriage a blessing to be
desired. Beauty fades, passion cools, the
blindness of romance gets couched when
seeing is too late; poetry does not pay the
butcher; and gallantry of bearing of the
"long sword, saddle, bridle" kind is apt to
lose itself in domestic bad language when
the pot is empty of pudding, and half a
dozen children swarm about the musty
lodgings or dingy quarters to which love
and folly have reduced the gay lieutenant
and his bride. On the whole, Prince Pret-
tyman is a dangerous fellow either to get or
wait for, having the trick of unsubstantially
throughout. Romantic girls would do well
to reflect that, if they are to have only one
gown in a life-time, they had better buy one
that will wash and wear creditably to the
end, rather than a flimsy bit of finery that
looks well only in the beginning, and goes
to pieces before the first year is out


THE Empress of Japan has set the fashion
of wearing uncolored teeth and eyebrows.
It is generally regarded as a shocking in-
novation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS EOR THE SICK.
				      —
	“Daisy Eyebright,” the lively correspon-
dent of the "Country Gentleman," and the
wife of a physician, writes:
	"It would be selfish in us to cultivate
flowers merely to adorn our own homes, or
to gratify our own love of the beautiful.
The flowers are generous, their fragrance is
not pent up in themselves, but is wafted on
over the tiny current of air, and is shared by
every one who passes by our grounds, or
enters our parlors; and we doubt not that
many wistful eyes admire the bright color-
ings and desire to hold some of them in
their hands as their very own. It is a sad
thing to be sick and disabled from walking
out. It is a great privation to be shut up in 
the house, a feeble, wasting invalid, when
there is so much brightness out of doors, so
much to fill the heart and eye with joy and
happiness. We that rise early and employ
ourselves with daily cares and labors, can
hardly sympathize with those who are
unable to enjoy these privileges, which we
can really never appreciate until they are
lost and gone beyond our recall. And in
every community there are those who
highly prize the green things of the earth'
and yet are not able to enjoy them, but are
forced to struggle for life with pain and
sickness day and night. To such sufferers a
fragrant bunch of flowers comes like a mes-
senger of hope and comfort from the outer
world—even a simple rosebud or a bunch of
pansies is fraught with a blessing, and such
slight tokens of remembrance will brighten
many a dark hour, and give a cheerful
appearance to many a gloomy room. Far
better than pills and powder, sometimes, are
the bright, sweet flowers of our gardens to
those who are denied many comforts; and
even when their illness is so severe that
only the physician and nurse can enter their
sick room, the lovely, fragrant flowers will
remind our friends that we are mindful of 
their sufferings, and will do all in our power
to alleviate them. Amid the dull array of
phials of medicine, it is almost a blessed
relief to see a few flowers, which can cheer
the patient in his bitter pain; and if death
is the only physician that can heal. the
flowers will speak to the suffer of brighter
skies and purer airs, where no griefs nor
graves are known; and sin and sorrow never
enter. In time of fruit, a luscious peach or
pear, or a glowing bunch of grapes will be
relished by the sick for their own sake, and
also for the givers; for intense gratitude is
often felt for such kind remembrances, such
little tokens of affection and interest. Dear
friends, let us bestow of our abundance not
only upon the sick and suffering, but also on
those who are denied such blessings."


THE BEAUTIFUL BLUE DANUBE.
				    ——
	The banks of the Danube for many miles
after leaving Vienna are flat and uninterest-
ing. Here and there a rough wall of loose
stones has been thrown up to resist the en-
croachment of the water; but the general
character of the landscape betokens the im-
possibility of cultivation, and the fields seem
scarcely yet to have recovered from the
devastation of the wintery floods. Stunted,
shock-headed, palsied willows, with an
occasional poplar, are the only trees; the 
grass is long and rank, and flags and bull-
rushed thickly fringe the stream. No
attempt at division seems to have been
made—all is common property; though here
and there, where the herbage is of better
quality and more fitted for grazing purposes,
one comes on a vast herd of dun-colored,
long-horned cattle, or a drove of small, wiry,


shaggy horses, some browsing, some gallop-
ing wildly about in terror at the snorting
steamer. At intervals of every two or three
miles we glide past a long row of barges,
some of which have been formed into water-
mills, while the others are converted into
residences for those who look after the
grinding of the meal. According to the
tradition of song, millers are a joyous, lively
race, but it would be difficult to imagine a
more solitary, cheerless life than the lot of
these men, "one side water all around"
them, and such land as they can see, barren,
desolate and forbidding. Of active life on
the river there is scarcely a sign. The
stream is split into so many branches, and 
winds its way through so many devious
channels, between islands teeming with
rank vegetation and high sand banks, that
anything like a distant prospect is impossible.
Occasionally we come upon a steamer tug-
ging a fleet of heavily laden barges against
the stream, and then there is an interchange
of courtesy between the two crews which is
perfectly Eastern in its profuseness. Each
captain on the barge raises his gold-lace cap
and lays his hand on his heart; each mate
half way down the companion ladder does
ditto; even the helmsmen are so intent upon
bowing and saluting that they let go their
hold on the wheel for a moment, heedless
of the dangerous navigation.—“St. Louis
Paper.”


﻿RESPONSE TO A LETTER WRITER.

	A letter dated Fountain, Indiana, July 14,
1873, and addressed "To any lady of good
standing in the Mormon Church" having
reached the EXPONENT post office box,
through the courtesy of the postmaster of
this city, demands notice. The writer
claims to be a physician, expresses his de-
sire to emigrate to Utah and become "a
member of the Mormon Church;" says he is
"a strong advocate of the Mormon doctrine
and principals;" but he is very anxious to
know whether, if he were to come to Utah,
"engage in practice, and goin the Mormon
Church" the Mormons would lend him "a
helping hand" and assist him in getting
a practice by giving him "their patronage
and influence!" Evidently the writer's
devotion to"the Mormon doctrine and prin-
cipals" is to be materially influenced by the
amount of patronage he would receive in
his "specialty of doctrine the eye." Were
his pretentions of belief sincere and honest
he would accept the truth for the truth's
sake, independent of all considerations of
"patronage and influence;" were he an
honest gentleman he would have addressed
his letter to "Any gentleman in good stand-
ing in the Mormon Church" instead of to
"any lady;" for although he says he has
written to several gentlemen in Salt Lake
City and received no answer, we are satisfied
he has not written to any of the authorities
of the Church, nor to any leading Latter-day
Saint in the Territory. We notice the letter
as a specimen of what some men can
attempt. This man has a small family, yet
proposes to leave them behind in Indiana;
and endeavors to open a correspondence
with some "Mormon lady;" asking advice 
of her as to what course he should pursue.
His pretentions are too flimsy. To our
mind he is neither honest, sincere nor a
good man, but one who would try to work
evil under a thin covering of religious pre-
tention.


A man named David Nesbit, in Lindsay
Ontario, proved his unlimited devotion to a
lady, Miss Mary A. Hopwood, the other
day, by shooting her dead—not by accident.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
				——
	BASS, the English Brewer, pays yearly
$700,000 to the railroads for transportation.
	MOSES Dupont, of Holyoke, Mass., and
his twenty-three brothers, have between
them 322 children. 
	THERE are in Chicago's new hotel—the
Grand Pacific—59 flights of stairs, 38 miles
of wire, 999 windows and 1,070 doors.
	THE Pope and Czarina, and the Pope and
ex-Queen Isabella of Spain have been inter-
changing elegant and valuable presents. 
	ABOUT 2,000 years ago Ptolemaeus Philo-
pater built a ship at Alexandria 420 feet
long, 57 broad, and 72 feet high. Tonnage,
6,445 tons.
	A RUSSIAN lady, Lydia Rodelrena, has
given $40,000 to endow a department for
medical instruction for women in St. Peters-
burg Academy of medicine.
	The Episcopalians of Chicago are building
two new churches, respectively named St.
John's and Trinity, at a cost of $150,000 for
the former and $175,000 for the latter.
	THE Danbury News has reached a circu-
lation of eleven thousand copies, four thou-
sand of which are sold through the New
England News Compay, of Boston.
	IT is a notable fact that the first victim
of cholera in Indianapolis was a bar tender
who wore a diamond pin, and had taken other
precautions against the plague.
	AT Des Moines, the liquor case of Mrs.
Priestly against Hierb has been settled by
Hierb giving her a homestead valued at
$1,500 as damages for selling liquor to her
husband.
	STATISTICS show Georgia to be the leading
Southern Baptist State, both in respect to
contributions and numbers, one in every
eight of the population, it is said being a
Baptist.
	THE Washington dispatches now say
there were certainly nearly one hundred
thousand dollars of the bonds that were
stolen from Vice President Colfax, last
winter, and afterwards recovered.
	A DECISION which will have an important
bearing upon the rights of passengers in
street cars, has just been rendered in the
General Term of the New York Superior
Court, in the case of a suit for damages.
	VERY laconic is the report of Captain
Chaw, of the London Fire Brigade, regard-
ing the destruction of the Alexandria Palace
by fire. It is as follows; "A brick building,
about 900 by 40 feet, burned out and the
roof off."
	MR. John McAllister, who lives a short
distance from Dover, Maine, reports that on
the 5th of June there was a snow-bank at 
least four feet deep on the south side of a
hill near his dwelling. He has lived on his
farm fifty-seven years and never before saw
snow upon the ground in June.
	THE leading citizens of Portland, Oregon,
have raised a purse of $5,400 in gold, and
presented it to Mrs. Canby. General Canby
is said to have died poor, leaving his widow
with nothing but a pension of thirty dollars
per month. The charities of the deceased
general are said to have been without stint.
	THE manufacture of rails by a new sys-
tem, which does away with manual labor to
a great extent, is to be carried on by a rail
mill which is now being erected at Louis-
ville, Ky., at a cost of $500,000. In the
process of making rails the iron passes
through thirteen sets of rollers, without a halt
and is turned over five times for side rolling.
The iron is taken from the heating furnace
and transformed into a rail in half a minute.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN IN AUSTRIA.

	﻿The correspondent of the Baltimore
“American” says, “I have before alluded to
the fact that women perform the hardest
kind of laboring work in Germany, but was
not prepared for the sights I have witnessed
to-day in Vienna. In America, mixing
mortar and carrying the hod is considered
such hard work that few white men can be
found willing to undertake it at the present
day. An immense building near our hotel,
occupying a whole block, is in course of
erection, on which not less than 400 persons
are employed, fully 200 of whom are women.
All the hard laboring work is done by
women, such as making and carrying mor-
tar in buckets on their heads to the work-
men handling the brick. They are not
allowed a moment’s leisure, several overseers
being on guard to keep them constantly in
motion. We found the same proportion of
women at work on all the new buildings,
and there must be many thousands of them
to-day doing this species of laboring work
in Vienna. They are both young, middle-
aged and old, but all seem to be strong and
healthy. At dinner-time they swarm into
the shops to purchase a piece of brown bread
and fat bacon and a mug of beer, and eat
their dinners sitting on the curbstones.
Their wages are one florin, or 48 cents per
day, and I am assured by a gentleman resi-
dent here that most of them sleep about the
buildings on shavings, or in barns or sheds,
having no homes. Amidst all the splendor
and wealth of this great city, with its mil-
lion of inhabitants, there is, perhaps, more
destitution, want and suffering than in all
the cities in America. Still, we frequently
hear some of our countrymen praising and
preferring the governments of Europe.
Whilst viewing this scene, the Emperor and
Empress, with his staff and outriders,
glittering in gold and precious stones,
dashed along the Ringstrasse, on the way to
the palace, whilst a short distance off stand
the royal stables, a magnificent structure,
covering at least four blocks of ground, as
large as Franklin square, the meanest ani-
mal of which is better cared for than these
women. It is not to be wondered at that of
the 8,000 births annually in the lying-in-
hospital in Vienna, less than 500 are of
children born in wedlock.


THE WIFE OF GENERAL CANBY.

	More than thirty years ago, in the little
town of Crawfordville, Ind., there was a
merry, old-fashioned wedding, and Captain
E. R. S. Canby and Louisa Hawkins were
married. Both were young, the bride was
beautiful, gifted with a reed-like grace of
movement, and a rich and exquisite voice,
that still haunts my ear with the echo of its
remembered music. The old people shook
their heads that night, and said she was too
tender for a soldier’s wife; it would not do
for her to brave the hardships and dangers
of the new countries. His calm, earnest
way of loving, won her whole soul, and
throughout the shifting changes of all this
tract of years she has gone with him, and
where he was, there was her home—her
only home. Along the lonely frontier,
at desolate outposts, in Florida, in New
Mexico, in California, even on the rough
edge of the battle, that gentle, delicate
woman has hovered near her husband, and
the banner overhead was love. In the fruit-
less march to Utah, under Buchanan’s
administration, her tent was pitched among
the mountains where the troops wintered.
And I recollect a letter, written to kindred
at home, describing their camp, and how


gladly she ate the wild garlic, as a preven-
tive to scurvy, when it started under the
melting snows of a late coming spring.
What the husband gained in moral hight by
the companionship of the Christian wife,
how much he owed to her, and we through
him, has not been recognized. His inherited
tendency to gloom was charmed away in
that serene presence. There was healing
in the wings of the guardian spirit, and
through her vigilence, whatever could
annoy was smoothed from before him as if
by the unseen agency of fairy hands. Partly
to this unfailing care is due that even poise
of brain which kept his judgment so nicely
balanced that, as has been said of Washing-
ton in action, “he never failed to observe all
that was possible, and at the same time to
bound his aspirations by that which was
possible.” Nothing could exceed the
knightly tenderness, the courtly deference
of his manner to her. He learned—as
sooner or later all must learn—that a little
love is much better than fame, and those
who knew him as merely the silent, inflex-
ible officer, could not guess how the lovely-
ness of her life was blended with his, and
filled it with an undersong of wonderful
sweetness. Her household was directed
with a wise and elegant thrift, more abun-
dant than any waste, and once when the
General laughingly complained of being
kept on short allowance, she surprised him
with a sum saved from his pay sufficient to
purchase a farm in Missouri. This, too,
was for others. In Richmond she made our
enemies love her, and in New Orleans said,
“I can hardly keep anything, there is such
suffering about us." How many she has
warmed, and cheered, and comforted only
the recording angel has written. During
their first marriage years her early beauty
sprang up anew at their feet, and a little
girl’s caressing chatter filled their house
with music; but the Divine friend of children
took the young child in His arms, even as
he took the child of old, and has kept her
safely housed in heaven—safe from sickness,
from the battle, from the temptation, from
the weight of years. Immortality would
seem but a cheat if with the dust died
our affections.


PASCAL has finely said, “I do not admire
in a man the extreme of virtue, as of valor,
if I do not see at the same time the extreme
of the opposite virtue, as in Epaminondas,
who had the extreme of valor and the ex-
treme of gentleness. For otherwise this
character would not rise, but fall, by the
excess of the one side, A man shows true
greatness, not by touching one extreme,
but by touching, both at once, and filling up
the interval.”
ErRRORS OF THE WORLD.—The little I
have seen of the world teaches me to look
upon the errors of others in sorrow, not in
anger. When I take the history of one
poor heart that has sinned and suffered, and
represent to myself the struggles and temp-
tations it has passed through, the brief
pulsations of joy, the feverish inquietude of
fear, the pressure of want, the desertion of
friends, I would fain leave the erring soul
of my fellow man with Him from whose
hand it came.—“Longfellow.”
SAY "good-night to your little ones as if
you were saying “good-by.”  The angels
may want them before the dawn of morn-
ing. It is hard enough to bear when grief
alone fills the place of your absent ones but
when remorse sits in the empty chair, and
your last memory of the dear little face is
that of a wronged and sorrowful child, it is
a haunting reproach which you may hardly
hope in this world to dismiss.


CALDER & CARELESS,
	No 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for  the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.	jc14

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

		H. DINWOODY,

At No. 31, East Temple Street, a d [-] o 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place or ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine,
nd there is none better–if as good–we truthful[-]y
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing [-]everal kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Mahcine which is
manufactured in this city. and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

		NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promotin[-] the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the view of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the follow[-] ng terms t[-] clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
te paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-			-		-	$13 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club -		-		-			  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50		-		  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-		-			-		  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered le[-]ter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the ex[--]nsion of the 
circulation of the Exponent.


About the 20th of the present month, Pro
fessors Wise and Donaldson intend starting
from New York to attempt a crossing of the
Atlantic in the great Graphic balloon. Most
people are fond of adventure and excite-
ment now-a-days, but few would be willing
to undertake such a voyage.


Woman's Exponent.
Vol. 2. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, August 15, 1873. 		No. 6.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES

	In Newark, New Jersey, some workmen,
in digging a well lately, struck “ile,” and
pumped, the first day, about two barrels of
good oil.  The owner, doubtless, considers
his fortune made, but in case of a fire on his
premises, the water sought might have
rendered it more complete.
	Conflagrations continue to do their
part in keeping alive the interest of the
news columns in daily periodicals. Port-
land, Oregon, has had the largest one of
recent date; while London, Philadelphia,
Boston and Concord are prominent among
the cities which report great losses by late
fires.
	The many pleasant notes of congratula-
tion and good wishes for our future pros-
perity and happiness, which the late addition
to our name continues to draw from generous
friends, call for acknowledgments on our
part. Thanks, dear friends; and may you all
live for and realize as great blessings as
your kind words indicate your desire for us.
	It is an interesting feature in the case of
Miss Susan B. Anthony, being convicted of
the crime of illegal voting, that the inspec-
tors of election who received her vote, must
suffer the same penalty she does, which can
not be made to exceed five hundred dollars
fine or three years imprisonment.
	M. S., Maids of Science, is a degree which
has been lately invented for lady graduates.
There should be some title of respect given
to energetic, yet plain consistent women of
the day, who can brave the taunts and jeers
of public criticism, and think and act for
themselves, and show that they have some
individual tastes and ideas of their own.
Why not confer on them the degree of W.
S., Women of Sense.
	It is stated, most positively by New York
papers, that Mr. Ewell, a Massachusetts
ornithologist has in his possession a white
robin; and also that a white robin is a bird
no oftener seen than a “white blackbird.”
If this be true, there may be hopes of worthy
men receiving paying offices yet, sometime
in the future; if blackbirds “can” be white,
it may be not impossible for a government
offiicial to be honest. However, the story
may be incorrect.
	A New Jersey father named Akins, lately
had his son locked up for making an assault
on him, the father; and so fearful was he
that his son might escape confinement and
take his life, that he went immediately and
made his will and put his property in a
settled shape, as if in anticipation of being
assassinated, and that by the hand of his
own son, who is twenty-one years of age.
Such a position may be an interesting one,
but we defer comment.
	Some people are apparently much exer-
cised over a divorce suit of Ann Eliza Webb
Young “vs.” Brigham Young; but it does
not appear to affect him, or to disturb his usual
serene mode, any more than previous tricks
which other short-sighted filibusters, have
sought to play on him, have done. The
case is proceeding in as lawless a manner
as is common in cases of the kind wherein
“Mormons” are concerned in Utah, under
its present Territorial official government.
	The Spirit of war seems to be diffusing
itself boldly and implacably among the
aborigines of the country. Some of their
tribes are apparently inclined to assist in
carrying out the extermination policy, from
the treacherous and blood-thirsty manner
in which they are butchering one another.
Whether this state of Indian affairs, is very
much due to the strange and irregular
course which is being pursued toward them
by government or not, it is evident that no
good feeling can be engendered among
them by misrepresentations and unfulfilled
promises.
	An official trial of the various improve-
ments in cabs was made at the International
Exhibition in London, recently by a com-
mittee of which the Duke of Beaufort was
chairman, and Lord Somerset and other
prominent persons were members. After
some time had been spent in examination,
it was decided that there was no special im-
provement in any of the cabs presented for
the prize competition; but it must have
been a laughable sight to witness those
notable dignitaries jumping in and out of
the cabs as if for sport—that was the way
they tried them.
	Two young heroines have lately distin-
guished themselves by being possessed of
presence of mind and a knowledge of
swimming.  One of them, Miss Lucinda
Conklin, the daughter of a Long Island far-
mer, heroicly rescued a drowning man
whose boat had capsized near Eaton’s Neck
light, opposite her father’s residence. The
other, Maggie Elpick, eighteen years of
age, who resides near Greenwich and is the
daughter of an oysterman, bravely plunged
into the deepest part of the harbor and
swam to shore with an eight-year-old boy
who had lucklessly been overturned in
a boat. Sometimes, to know how to swim
is of more value than to have an understand-
ing of all the fine arts and to be a leader
of fashions besides.
	If Grace Greenwood means all she says,
we can see farther than she does in certain
directions. She says: “The fact is there
are too many of us women. And there
seems no relief through coming generations
except the heroic remedy of quietly putting
all female infants out of the way. If we ad-
mit the first statement to be correct, would
not a better method and a more just one be
to put the mothers out of the way and save
the infants the trouble of coming here but
to meet so hard a fate? Or better still, let
Platonic love be made a law not to be
broken. True, under either of these sys-
tems, male, as well as the female progeny
would be obliterated; which would hardly
answer the ends of creation. What then
remains to be chosen in reason, but the
social system so much talked of in connec-
tion with the name of “Mormons?”
	When newspaper men take occasion to
write squibs on as delicate a point as that of
religion, we do not consider it womanly or
expressive of refined taste or good judge-
ment for lady writers to seek to imitate an
example so unprolific of satisfactory results.
“The Balance” has evidently been trying to
“draw us out,” one means used being that
of repeating those little old funny stories
about the monkey that accidently got its
tail cut off, and then tried to persauade all
the other monkeys that tails were quite
unnecessary and it was much nicer to be
without one; and the sick child who—when
the deceptive doctor cried “don’t let Jonny
have all of that nice castor oil, mother, I
want some of it”—said the doctor was a
good man and he might have the whole
dose, and making comparisons between
them and our defense of the sacred marriage
system of the Latter-day Saints. To meet
our friend, “The Balance,” on her own
grounds, we could “show up” the other side,
of the question, in caricatures as ludicrous
and as sarcastic as her own, proving that
there are other sides to the picture. But
in treating of religion, we prefer a different
form of discrimination. And, farther, we
were early taught that retaliation was the
poorest kind of revenge; the lesson, perhaps
having more weight with us from the
fact that it was most forcibly impressed by
words and examples of our own dear, good
mother.
	Judge Henry R. Selden and Judge 
Hunt are occupying positions of very differ- 
ent characters just now. While the latter is
being severely criticised by a large portion
of the newspaper press, for the decision
rendered in the Anthony case, the following
is what the New York “Commercial Adver-
tiser” has to say about the former: “When
a jurist as eminent as Judge Henry R.
Selden testifies that he told Miss Anthony
before election that she had a right to vote,
and this after a careful examination of the
question, the whole question assumes new
importance, and Mr. Selden at once becomes
the central object of adoration by all the
gentle believers in woman’s right to the
ballot. And when the same able lawyer
advocates the cause of Miss Anthony in the
United States Courts, there is abundant
reason why other men, both lay and legal,
should put themselves in an attitude at least
of willingness to change their convictions
upon this topic, which now threatens to
take on very large proportions. The points
made in the argument by Mr. Selden are
that the defendant had a legal right to vote;
that even if no such right existed, if she
believed she had such right, and voted in
such faith, that she committed no offense; and
lastly, he argued, that she did vote in pur-
suance of such belief. The point that Miss
Anthony had acted illegally only because
she was a woman, was well put. Had her
brother, under the same circumstance, done
the same thing, his act would have been
not only innocent but laudable. The crime
was, therefore, not in the act done, but in
the sex of the person who did it. Women,
remarked the Judge, have the same inter-
est in the maintenance of good government
as men. No greater absurdity, to use no
harsher term, can be presented to the
human mind than that of rewarding men
and punishing women for the same act,
without giving women any voice in the
question of which shall be rewarded and
which punished. How grateful to Judge
Selden must all the suffragists be! He
has struck the strongest and most promising
blow in their behalf that has yet been
given.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent.
		  A BRIDE.
	
To-day thou enters, sweetest maid,
On untried ways of light and shade.
Hope beckons on; fear says “Beware,”
But love ennerves thy soul to dare
The vague alarms, the sighs and tears
That thickly throng the coming years.
 
Thy fair calm forehead, ’neath thy vail,
And thought’s fair impress, gleameth pale.
Thy deep, prophetic eyes look forth
To days which yet have not their birth,
And seem too scan the years to be,
With all that they shall bring to thee. 

Thou seems’t to see the care and pain,
Slow pacing in pale sorrow’s train;
Bitter bereavement. black deceit,
Sharp thorns spread for thy tender feet,
Anxiety’s keen dagger-thrust,
Hope turned to ashes and to dust!

Thy heart fails not, for thou cans’t see
The heavenly joys in store for thee;
The joy in duty nobly done,
In any spirit-conflict won.
In heart bowed to heaven’s will.
Though it decrees thee good or ill.

Faint ringing voices call to thee
From out the shadowy “yet to be,”
Which fill thy soul with music rare,
And promise sweet reward for care.
And the kindling light in thine earnest eye
Says there thou findest rapture high.

Thy woman’s utter faith in him,
Beside whose love all else is dim,
The hope that ever, side by side
Ye two may stand whate're betide,
Together be in weal or woe,
Make thy pure heart with courage glow.

And knowing well that good and ill
In just proportions, life must fill,
Thou asketh not unmingled joy,
Nor happiness without alloy,
But art content to kiss the rod.
Be pure and leave the rest to God.

The hour is spent—thy girlhood’s knell
Is tolled, as by a passing bell.
Thy bridegoom comes, with joyous eye,
To lead thee to thy destiny.
With smile half sad but wholly sweet,
Thou turnest thy heart’s lord to greet.

With graceful step, not swift nor slow,
Now to the nuptial alter go.
About thee broods such holy hush—
Though art too thoughtful e’en to blush.
With prayerful eye and changeless cheek
Thou dost in awe thy promise speak. 

Thou givest all thy girlish grace,
The saintly beauty of thy face,
The gentle heart unsoiled by sin,
All fair without, all pure within,
All possibilities so grand,
Together with thy virgin hand.

May he who wins so proudlyno w,
As proudly wear thy nuptial vow;
Be strength to thee when thou art weak.
And with thee life’s high purpose seek;
May, on eternity’s bright shore,
Ye twain be one for ever more, 
						 LU DALTON.
BEAVER, 14th July, 1873.


R. S. REPORTS.

	From the 4th Ward, Salt Lake City. Our
Society was organized Feb. 8th, 1868. Mrs.
Mary Godsall was chosen President, Mrs.
Elizabeth Preece and Mrs. Ann Jenkins
Counselors; Mrs. Louisa Davey Secretary
and Mrs Mary A. F. Jenkins Treasurer:
November 1st 1870, Mrs. Louisa Davey re-
signed and Mrs. Ellen Condie was chosen
Secretary; she dischaged her duties faith-
fully until March 13th 1872, when she
resigned on account of her poor health, and
Miss Mary E. Bailey was selected as Secre-
tary and sustained by a unanimous vote of
the Society assembled. There are but few
in the Society, but those who attend seem
united in seeking to do good.  On the 23rd
of April last, Sisters Elizabeth Howard and
Louise L. Greene were present at a meeting
held in the Fourth Ward Relief Society 
Room. Sister Howard gave excellent in-
structions on  every-day life. She exhorted
the sisters to diligence, obedience and
faithfulness, said they should always prac-
tice what they taught, that they might gain
and retain confidence in each other. She
desired all to subscribe for the Exponent,
the merits of which she extolled elaborately.
Advised them to honor and obey the order
of plural marriage. President Mrs. Mary
Godsall expressed satisfaction with what
had been said, felt that she had been edi-
fied; every thing could not be seen or
learned in one day; there was an endless
variety of lessons to be learned, and each
day some improvement might be made.
She considered extravagance and waste a
great sin, and that children trained to
economize and not use that which was un-
necessary, were a credit to their parents.
	Miss Greene said she liked the looks of her
sisters of the Fourth Ward. They seemed
to have the Spirit of God, without which
none could accomplish good works.  If
trials came, they were merely admitted by
God to purify His Saints, if they would so
receive them. She touched upon the “Word
of Wisdom” as being a great trial to some.
To let tea and coffee alone had never affected
her, she had never used nor cared for them;
to dress plainly and neatly was in accordance
with her taste, therefore it was not difficult
for her to keep out of the meshes of fashion.
So far as known and realized by her, the
principles of the Gospel were all correct and
beautiful. Polygamy might prove a trial to 
her, that she had not tested, but meant to
hold herself in readiness for trials should
they come, and feeling God’s approval she
should be able to pass whatever He might
require of her. She felt grieved to see
many of the young, pure daughters of Zion
marrying outsiders of whom they knew
nothing but that they wore fine appearances.
Whatever good an individual might do for
the Kingdom of God, the reward would be
to that individual; none need fear that in
doing general good, self was to be neglected,
for the only safe way to build up self was to
work faithfully for the Lord who was the
Master of all flesh and to whom the earth
and the fulness thereof belonged. And
likewise, the falling away from the faith by
individuals caused individual injury but
could not stop the progress of the Kingdom.
No one should consider the saving of rags,
bits of writing paper, old letters and envelops
too small work to be attended to, but a
worthy task, in that it would assist in mak-
ing the paper used by the Latter-day Saints,
they would not need to use imported
so paper, but might save at home the means
expended for it.
	President Mrs. Godsall proposed that the
word “Female” be withdrawn from the
name of the society which was acceeded to
by unanimous vote.
	Meeting adjourned and was dismissed by
singing, and benediction by President Mrs.
Godsall.
	Our Society, by the kind help of the
brethren, has built a commodious room
wherein we hold our meetings. We have
missed no opportunity for relieving the
poor of our Ward since our organization,
and have a good showing in the Treasury.
		Miss Mary E. Bailey, Secretary.

	Mrs. A. E. Neal reports a meeting held in
the 19th Ward hall, May 27th of this year,
at which knitting was done by some of the
members, and a skirt was made for “blind
Lizzie;” with the usual cerremonies of
rayer and singing.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association,
held Saturday, the 2nd inst., at their usual
place of meeting, was an exceedingly inter-
esting one. Miss Snow gave a synopsis of
a portion of her late journey to Europe and
through some parts of that division of the
globe, which was received with marked
attention by her hearers. Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball was peculiarly enthusiastic in her re-
marks, and was also listened to with much
consideration. Mrs. Z. D. Young was spirited
and concise in what she said, and Mrs.
Parker, a lady from Omaha, who was in-
vited to speak, expressed satisfaction and
good feelings for the kind treatment she had
received during her brief associations with
some of the people of Salt Lake.


A NOBLE GIRL.

	Notwithstanding the fact that men re-
ceive higher wages for labor than women 
do, there are more girls laying up handsome 
sums of money than there are young men
who save a cent.
	Not long since, a delicate-looking girl sent 
home to Ireland money to pay the passage
to America of another member of the
family, who desired to come here to work 
and earn a home.  Said a lady to the girl:
“Why does not your brother send the
money? He has been in this country longer 
than you, and ought to have saved quite an
amount.”
	“Oh, ma’am, my brother would never
send it; he spends as fast as he earns, and
most always foolishly, in drinking and un-
fitting himself for work. I am willing to
deny myself clothing for the sake of the
dear ones at home.”
	“Do you share your wages with them all
the time?”
	“Yes, ma’am, I send money home every
three months—more than half I earn.”
	“Does your brother ever send any?”
	“Not much.  Once or twice since I came
to America, four years ago, he has sent ten
dollars.”
	“Are you not afraid if another brother
comes to this country, he will follow the
example of his older brother, and become
improvident and addicted to drinking?”
	“Sometimes that fear troubles me, but I
believe he will do better, for he was always
a wiser boy.”
	The girl is brave and noble. Quietly she
pursues her duties, and denies herself adorn-
ment and pleasures, although she is pretty, 
and may be supposed to gratify the vanities 
which almost all comely women possess. 
	The helpless ones at home are first in her
heart, and for their sakes she toils from year 
to year, perhaps thinking that sometime
the right man will come along who will 
marry and take her to his home.
	As the habits of young men now are
there is not one in a thousand worthy of 
becoming her husband, and the wisest 
thing she can do is to remain single, unless 
she meets one who has the manhood to resist 
the temptations that beset the youth of these
times, to steal away their senses with rum, 
and rifle their pockets of their wages.— 
“Elm Orlou.”


﻿A Kansas City mother lately flogged
a young man for marrying her daughter.


﻿When Arthur was a very small boy his
mother reprimanded him one day for some
misdemeanor.  Not knowing it his father
began to talk to him on the same subject.
Looking up in his face, Arthur said solemnly,
“My mother has ’tended to me.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent.
	A TRUE WOMAN’S SOLILOQUY.

		"And they twain shall be one flesh."
	Shall we indeed be one! one in mind, in
thought, in action one—to consumate the
great, the grand, the eternal will of Him
who said—“and they twain shall be one
flesh?” Though two in material, corporeal,
and personal identity, yet one in spirit—in
love, in union one: being formed to affiliate,
to harmonize and co-operate, we become one
in spirit, in essence one, and one in repro-
duction—the spirit and true aim of all
congugal affections;—The purpose of our
creation:—The end to mature eternal lives:—
	My husband and I are one.
							Axiom.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Health in Relation to Beauty.—
The first great law of beauty, as of health,
is cleanliness. Pure water is the best of all
agents of cleanliness.  It is most favorable
to the beauty of the skin and complexion
when luke warm.  After such a bath, the
skin becomes softer, more flexible, sleek
and glossy.  The body should always be 
rapidly and thoroughly dried, and a brisk
walk or some active exercise or other for a
few minutes afterward, will be advanta-
geous.
	The various Russian and Turkish baths,
the effect of all of which is to force the per-
spiration, are not favorable to the beauty of 
the skin. A simple vapor-bath, with
moderate rubbing, may be allowed, but not
the floods of hot steam, followed by dashes
of ice-water, and the dislocating process of
shampooing. The ancient practice of anoint-
ing the body after bathing with oil and
perfumed unguents, was favorable to the
health and beauty of the skin, and might be
revived with advantage. There are various
emollient and perfumed baths, which are in
great favor with the luxurious. These are
composed of oil, milk, buttermilk, or various
aromatic herbs. The famous beauty of the
old French Directory, Madame Tallien, was
in the habit of bathing herself in strawber-
ries and cream. Flax-seed is also a good
ingredient. For an aromatic bath, there
is nothing better than lavender which de-
rives its name from its use. The French
"pote d'amandes," made of almond, ground
rice, orris root, essence of lavender, cloves,
etc., is often added by the Parisian dames
to their bath, and its effect is highly appre-
ciated by them.
	Exercise, in the open air, and at all
seasons, is a prime promoter of health.
Walking when not carried to an excess, is
one of the best methods of exercise. It ac-
quires a regularity of movement, favorable
to graceful development, especially of the
chest and lungs. Taken with a pleasant
companion, or in a party of three or four, it
is better than when taken alone. You
should walk briskly, so as to quicken the
circulation, bring a good warmth to the
skin, and induce a moderate perspiration.
Horseback exercise is particularly favorable
to female form, attitude and grace.  It is,
moreover, held to be the best preventive of 
an excessive plumpness.
	Dancing is also an excellent exercise, but
not as it is generally practiced. Nothing,
in fact, can be more hurtful to the health
than the fashionable balls in overcrowded
rooms, where the atmosphere is hot and
pestilential, the excitement intense and
sensual, and the indulgence in eating and 
drinking excessive and untimely. The 
dance, to be healthful, should be in the open
air, or in well-ventilated rooms, and should
consist not of the stiff, mincing paces of the
modern beau and bell, but of the hearty
shake-downs and double-shuffles of their
grandmothers and grandsires. The game
of battle-dore and shuttle-cock is good, and
so is the “croquet” now in vogue; but both
should be played always in the open air,
and with an out-door freshness of spirit, and
and not the tameness of drawing-room atti-
tudes and manners.
	Gymnastics, or calisthenics, as they are
sometimes called, should be a branch of all
education, and especially of that of girls.
Anthropology, or in fact any other ology, is
comparatively unimportant, when compared
with that art which is essential to the
development of the physical vigor and beauty
of woman. It was in the gymnasium where
the Greek woman formed herself into that
immortal model of graceful proportion,
which all admire and strive to imitate; but
neither modern art, nor nature, unless rarely,
can reach.
	Finally the best means of acquiring and
preserving good looks, and even health, is
the proper culture of the understanding and
affections. A quick intelligence, and a
gentle sentiment, will be reflected purely in
the coarsest medium, and endow the home-
liest  face with an attractiveness beyond
that of all charms of mere form and com-
plexion. Good-humor has more to do with
good-health than is generally supposed.
They re-act upon each other.
	Tomatoes au Gratin.—This simple and
delicious dish is made by cutting some ripe
tomatoes in half, putting them in a buttered
dish with some bread-crumbs and butter,
pepper, and salt, and baking till slightly
browned on the top.
	Apple Cream.—Boil twelve apples in
water till soft, take off the peel, and press
the pulp through a sieve, upon half a pound
of pounded sugar; whip the whites of two
eggs, add them to the apples and beat all
together till it becomes stiff, and looks quite
white.  Serve it heaped up on a dish.
	To Restore Colors Taken Out by Acid.
—Hartshorne rubbed on a wollen garment,
will restore the color without injuring it.
Spirits of turpentine is good to take grease
or drops of paint out of cloth; apply it till
the paint can be scraped off.  Rub French
chalk or magnesia on silk or ribbon that has
been greased, and hold it near the fire; this
will absorb the grease so that it may be
brushed off.
	Rice Griddle Cakes.—One pint and a
half of cold boiled rice; put to soak in warm
water enough to cover it. Mash the rice
well, and make a batter, just before using it,
with one quart of sour milk, one light quart
of flour, salt to taste, two eggs well beaten.
The batter should be moderately thick. Stir
in a teaspoonful of soda just before frying.
	How to Wash Hair-Brushes.—Too
frequent washing is bad for any kind of
brush as it softens the bristles.  Once
a fortnight is sufficient for hair-brushes.
Disolve a piece of soda in warm, but not
very hot water; dip the bristles only of the
brush once in, then rub a little soap on
them, and continue dipping the brush in
and out, taking care not to let the water get
to the back or handle, till it becomes white
and clean, then dip it once into cold water
in the same manner. Shake and wipe it
with a cloth, and stand it, bristles down-
ward, to dry before the fire on a cloth. It
is the water soaking into the pores of the
ivory that makes it yellow. When dry,
rub the back and handle, both of the ivory
and tortoise-shell brushes, with wash-
leather, to polish them.
	Poor Man’s Pudding.—Pour one quart
of hot sweet milk over a pint of stale bread
or biscuit  crumbs; let them soak an hour;
sweeten to taste.  Beat two eggs well; mix
with the bread; stir all well. Season with
orange peel, dried, beaten fine and sifted.
Bake just as dinner is ready. It should be
eaten as soon as done, with solid butter
sauce.
	Bread and Butter Pudeing.—Butter
a deep pudding-dish; line the bottom with
thin slices of light bread, well buttered;
upon this, a thick layer of currents, raisins
and citron; another layer of buttered bread.
Make a custard by beating six or eight eggs
with a quarter of a pound of nice sugar and
a quart of milk. Pour half this custasd on
the bread in the pudding-dish, and let it
stand half an hour. Put over the remainder
of the custard, and bake in a moderate oven.
Large crackers may be split and buttered,
and used in the same way. Serve with
mock cream or arrowroot sauce.


﻿WHAT NOT.

	WHO is the oldest lunatic on record?—
Time out of mind.
	THE “home circuit”—Walking about with
a baby in the night.
	A PHILADELPHIA editor says: What
mountain most resembles the sound of a
sneeze?—Catarrh-din.
	IT is said that iron is a good tonic for
debilitated young ladies. This may be so,
but ironing is a better one sometimes.
	MATHEW VII. 5, New Translation.—“Hy-
pocrite, first take the splinter out of your
own eye, then will you see to take the mote
out of your brother’s eye.”
	IT is said that cream may be frozen by
simply putting it into a glass vessel, and
then placing the whole into an old bach-
elor’s bosom.
	A POET was annoyed when he found this
line: “Where are the dead, the vanished
dead?” published as follows: “Where are
the dead, the varnished dead?”
	A WOMAN of humor wonders why she and
her husband quarrel so often, for she says
they agree uniformly in the one grand point
—he wishes to be master and so does she.
	The liberty of the Press consists in the
right to publish the Truth with good
motives, and for justifiable ends, though it
reflects on government or individuals.
	A NEW JERSEY man having heard that
Columbus was in Ohio, immediately started
out West to interview the “old man” about
the voyage that resulted in the discovery
of America.
	“WERE you guarded in your conduct
while in New York?” asked a father of his
son, who had just returned from a visit to
that city. “Yes” sir: part of the time by
two policemen.”
	“MY dear, what makes you always
yawn?” the wife exclaimed, her temper
gone; “Is home so dull and dreary?” “Not
so my love,” he said, not so; but man and
wife are one you know; and when alone I'm
weary.”
	A SHREWD old gentleman once said to his
daughter, “Be sure, my dear, you never
marry a poor man, but remember that
the poorest man in the world is one that
has plenty of money and nothing else.”
	A LITTLE boy, turning over the leaves of
a ladies’ book happened to get sight of a
pattern for a fashionable hat; whereupon,
he exclaimed rapturously! “Oh! lookie
here, what is it, a whale or a porcupine?”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers Woman's Exponent,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	Nilsson is said to be the daughter of a
Sweedish father and an American mother.
......The German troops have evacuated
every portion of French Territory except
the district of Verdun......Two criminals,
Nicholson and Hallerhan, were hanged at
Baltimore on the first inst......A railroad
war has been going on for some time be-
tween interested companies in New York.
......The recent death of the Duchess of
Inverness is announced............McVickers
theatre in Chicago claims to average seven
thousand dollars per week......Fires still
rage throughout the land, the cleansing of
the earth has indeed commenced......During
the last month the public debt was diminished
83,705,18......New Jersey is reported to be
afflicted with cattle disease......Cholera is still
reported prevalent in portions of Kentucky
and Indiana......A Methodist conference at
Hopkinsonville was recently broken up by
the event of a lady, in seeming good health,
falling dead as she knelt at the altar......An
Indiana man reckoned he could stand the
“drink,” on being acquitted for the murder-
ing of his wife......A writer on woman’s
dress, says, women dress to please the men,
and to please or spite each other......“No
company or good company” is an excellent
motto for all, especially the young........Mrs.
Abraham Lincoln is passing the summer at
St. Catherine’s, Canada......A Dundee lady,
Miss Baxter, has given 2,000 guineas to-
wards equipping a vessel to carry missiona-
ries to New Guinea......The Duke of Edin-
burgh, in becoming a “family man” wants
£25,000 per annum, to back him......South
Carolina is reported to be entirely under the
control of bad negroes and worse white men.
Mechanics and laborers employed on the
new post office in New York, are calling on
government for “back pay” which they con-
sider due them for the past two years for
their having worked ten hours per day
while the law demands only eight hours.....
A train of cars ran off the track in Lancaster,
England, a few days since, and was utterly
wrecked, killing and severely injuring forty-
two persons......The day following the double
excurtion in Baltimore, another murder was
committed in that city, by a Sweedish sailor
named Marker........Carthagena insurgents
have commenced war among themselves, and
those of Grenada have become discouraged
and offered to surrender to the Government.
......Hard stories are related of the Duke of
Edinburgh who is said to be of all the
Royal Princes, least esteemed and most
disliked......The health of Vice-President
Wilson is still reported feeble, but improving.
......Some of the sister States are jealous of
Pennsylvania, because the great Centennial
is to be conducted in Philadelphia......Much
excitement has been occasioned in Paris by
the meeting at Vienna of Francis Joseph,
the Counts de Chambord and de Paris,
representatives of the Bourbon and Orleans
houses, under favorable auspices, which is
considered a reconciliation of those houses.
......On the 5th inst. an accident occurred
on the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
railroad, a passenger train running into the
caboose car of a freight train, tearing the
latter to pieces and demolishing the engine
of the express, killing and injuring several
drovers and others......Two women, Mrs.
Hall and Mrs. Richards were lately killed
by hostile Indians at Camp Brown, forty
miles north-west of Atlantic City, W.T........
Most outrageous accounts are given of mob-
bing in Spain....The sufferers of the Portland,
Oregon, fire have been the recipients of the
proceds of a Long Branch grand reception
and promenade concert......A St. Louis wo-
man lately made use of a bucksaw in cutting
her own throat......The Cherokee Indians
are reported to have had serious difficulties
which are ending in bloody wars among
themselves......His Holiness, the Pope, pre-
dicts that the glory of France, and her
greatness shall be restored......The public
treasury officials solicit information concern-
ing the real cost of the Modoc war, which is
known to be large, but the war department
decline to give satisfactory announcements.
....Lady Blanche Somerset, an English mai-
den not yet eighteen, recently rode twenty
miles in one hour and forty minutes,
escorted by her father, to see a race, which
they were too late to witness......Miss Mary
Kueil, a graduate of the Westfield Normal
School, takes the position of principal of the
Springfield Training School at a salary of
$850, in the place of Miss Emeline Parsons,
resigned......In one week recently, the Bul-
lion in the Bank of England increased 
£3,007,000......Count de Paris is stated to
have announced his recognition of de Cham-
bourd as the only legitimate head of France.
......San Francisco has given liberal aid to
the Portland sufferers......Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, Beer Sellers get fined $100, cost of
court, and to spend six months in the house
of corrections.......The belief that the Yel-
low Stone river is navigable to the Big
Horn has lately originated with explorers......
A wrestling match for $2,500 aside and the
championship of America was commenced
between two men in New York lately but
after more than an hour's wrestling, was
stopped without a consumation because of a
dispute which arose......Richmond, Virginia,
has had a fierce storm of one hour which
destroyed many thousand dollars worth of
property.


﻿REPLICATION.
	We are asked by our contemporary, “The
Balance,” of Chicago, to give “a first lesson”
on plural marriage as believed in by the Saints.
In alluding to our notice of its editorial on the
“Mormon Question,” it gives us credit for treat-
ing it in a more “aimiable and liberal spirit”
than had been expected. To this we answer
in brief, that had we treated it in any other
spirit than that of womanly frankness and
courtesy, we should have done discredit to our
home education, as well as the religion we
profess, and consequent injustice to our own
conscience.
	To any one who prefers to look on the dark-
ened side, rather than to receive light on the
subject, we can hardly hope to offer convincing
arguments in favor of Celestial marriage, al-
though willing to impart information wherever
we can, to those who feel sufficient interest to
enquire—holding it to be a Christian duty to
“give to them that ask” of us. We therefore
take real pleasure and satisfaction in humbly
endeavoring to offer something of an explana-
tory nature in answer to the questions pro-
pounded and opinions given for our considera-
tion by “The Balance.” It says:
	“That there are many saintly Mormon “Wo-
men” we haven’t a doubt. And the men? We
believe that Mormonism is a religion(?) in-
vented “by” men and “for” men—a sort
of Juggernaut, in whose path women are
expected to lay down their throbbing, human
hearts.”
	Through whatever sources the writer of the
above may have obtained such belief, to us 
it is evident, that it is not founded on a correct
understanding of the subject. And how is
human nature to judge correctly of things
it has not tested? That the men who are
Latter-day Saints are those of purest motives
and lives, firmest integrity and greatest human
wisdom, we have occasion to know. And to
us it is ample proof of their superiority, that
the most intelligent and refined women of the
Church entertain the highest estimation and
appreciation of its noble and gifted elders;
while the leading women of almost every other
denomination are crying out against the cor-
ruption and injustice of the men in general,
with whom they are associated.
	Judging from their own testimonies, we
cannot feel to condemn the voices of those
women. For woman has fair reason to wage
war with men of the present generation, who
would tyranize over her, trample her under
their feet and crush out every holy aspiration
borne of purity and innocence, corrupting and
debasing her with themselves, and allowing her
not even a chance to raise a hand or a voice in
her own defense.
	But the women of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, have not these things to
contend with. For President Brigham Young
and his associates have ever sought, and are
still seeking to elevate woman with man, to
that standard of virtue and honor from which
they need fear no scrutiny, and regard no form
of reproach. And many of the wise and faith-
ful Saints, women as well as men, stand to-day
upon that sacred and blessed eminence.
	Speaking father of the “Mormons;” “The
Balance” asks—very appropriately, provided
it has leared nothing of their earnest endeavors,
their ceaseless, indefatigable lalors to elevate,
purify and do good to the human family:
	“If they believe that polygamy is ‘the only
true system of forming marital relations,’ why
do they not try to convert the world? And what
better means have they of doing so than
through their own organs of communication?”
	The former question in the above paragraph,
is easily answered by propounding others.
What other religious denomination has been to
the trouble and expense the “Mormons” have,
to spread abroad a knowledge of that which it
has received as the Gospel of the Son of God—
“The power of God unto salvation?” Where
are the missionaries, except those of the “Mor-
mon” faith, who have traveled without purse
or scrip, teaching the inhabitants of the earth,
the first principles of the Gospel as taught by
Jesus and His disciples—Faith, Repentance,
Baptism for the remission of sins and the lay-
ing on of hands for the reception of the Holy
Ghost? Where are the ministers of a gospel,
outside the “Mormon Church,” of whom those
who thirst can “buy wine and milk without
money and without price”—who preach to the
people Sabbath after Sabbath without a salary
and with no other compensation than the satis-
faction of having the consciousness of perform-
ing the good works which God requires at their
hands, and which they do in His name? If
there are other agents who do these works, we
do not know of them.
	And as for the “Mormons’" [-]organs of com-
munication’--do they not contain a great deal
in relation to the belief and practices of the
people, drawing many distinctions between
truth and error, and good and evil? They do not


always single out: “plurality of wives" as the
only thing the world needs to be taught; for
although it is apparently the chief objection
found by many, to the religion taught by the
Latter-day Saints, it is but an important one of
a grand system of principles, which, taken
altogether, constitute the Gospel of Christ. 1st
place, too, is among the last, rather than the
first principles to be understood. It would be
about as great folly to undertake to explain
the truth and purity of that principle, to a
person who had received no former light per-
taining to the Gospel, as to attempt to make a
child who had never seen a book, understand
how to analyze or parse a sentence in grammar.
	Yet, we will now seek to give some satisfac-
tory replies to the following questions from 
"The Balance:"
	"1. Will you not be so kind as to define
“Celestial Marriage?" We are told that "in
heaven they neither marry nor are given in
marriage,” so we had arrived at the very
natural conclusion that all marriages were
“terrestrial. 2. Do you believe, or have you
any evidence, that polygamic marriage pro-
duces a nobler race of men and women—mor-
rally, intellectually and physicially—than mon-
ogamic? If this could be proved beyond the
possibility of a doubt, it might be worth the
sacrifices it demands."
	To us, Celestial marriage, is indeed the only
true form of marriage ordained of God, and
revealed to Joseph Smith by an holy Angel,
to assist in bringing about the great plan of
salvation for the world, and the eternal exalta-
tion in the presence of God, of as many as will,
in sincerity and purity, accept “all" the doctrine
of Christ, and earnestly and faithfully live in
accordance therewith.
	The Celestial law of marriage requires the
marriage vows or covenants to be sealed for “all
eternity,” as well as for time. And unions
thus bound on earth' in the holy sanctuary—
by one holding the eternal Priesthood of God,
and having authority to administer such
ordinances, through the power of the Gospel,
restored to man by revelation from God—are
not dissolved by death but will remain un-
changed throughout the countless ages of eter-
nity. This preparation leaves no occasion for
marrying or giving in marriage in the eternal
worlds, in order that loving and devoted hus-
bands and wives may be there associated in
the holiest and most sacred of all relationship,
as they are here.
	Only those marriages which are binding on
parties till death separates them, or for a given
time during life, doom their devotees to final
separation.
	We shall not now attempt to “prove beyond
the possibility of a doubt that polygamic mar-
riage produces a nobler race of men and women
—morrally, intellectually and physically—than
monogamic.” We do not even believe that
polygamy alone would have such effect-
But taken in connection with all the other
pure and perfect principles of the Gospel, it is
already proven, although the experiment has
been comparatively, but a few years in opera-
tion, that when a people have become thorough-
ly educated in the ways of righteousness and
eternal life, a stronger, purer and in all re-
spects improved race of beings will be produc d
and dwell upon the earth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE NEW CLASS OF YOUNG LADIES.

	In accordance with late instructions which
have been given, six young ladies of this city
have formed themselves into a class and are
learning to set type in a building connected
with the “Deseret News” establishment.
	This is as it should be, and we admire the
young ladies who have undertaken to become


useful agents in accomplishing good. Not
because they, of necessity, are at present com-
pelled to work for a livelihood, do they enter
upon this duty. But realizing that it will
prove in time, a benefit, not only to themselves
but to the community, they cheerfully enlist
to perform a good part in a worthy cause.
Calling upon them a day or two since, we felt
gratified in meeting their bright, hopeful faces,
and listening to their cheery expressions con-
cerning their new occupatiqn.
	A gentleman in attendance remarked that
the chief objection raised to lady printers was
that but few of them could be depended on, as
they would not continue in the employment.
But this, he said, was met by President Young,
(who is the instigator of the movement,) as was
the same objection to his proposition a few
years ago in regard to ladies learning to tele-
graph. That was, that a sufficient number
should be taught the art, that when one retired
from a position, another could be chosen to
fill the vacancy. 
	The young ladies who have already engaged
to learn the art of type setting, are, by name,
Miss Martha J. Horne, Miss Jennie Powell,
Miss Sarah Haynes, Miss Annie Park, Miss
Abbie R. Slater and Miss Lottie Long. We
very sincerely hope they may always find
pleasure in the earnest performance of their
duties, and that more will soon be added to
the list.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Another entertaining and instructive
meeting of Sabbath School superintendents
and teachers was held on the evening of the
Fourth inst. Every teacher would find it in-
teresting to attend these conventions, when-
ever it is possible.
	Election day passed off as quietly and 
orderly in this city as other days do when there
is no opposition exhibited against right and
liberty; the women of Utah have again had
opportunity for showing their appreciation of
one of the peculiar privileges granted them.
	A Pleasant little company of ladies assem-
bled on Friday, the 8th inst., at the residence
of Miss Rhoda Richards, of this city to do
honor to the 89th birthday of that inestimable
lady. Among the guests, (none, we believe, 
were invited,) were Miss Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. O. Hyde and
Mrs. Persis Richards, of the veteran Mormon
ladies. A very happy season was spent, supper
being served for the company at the residence
of the hostess’ nephew, Dr. H. J. Richards.
	The closing exercises of the Normal School,
which has been held in this city, and to which
we have previously given some attention, gave
evidence of the good results which are likely to
accrue from the organization of such a system.
On the day preceding the termination of the
session, the school was visited by President
Brigham Young, Miss Eliza R. Snow and
others, who, we understand, were well pleased
with the interest manifested in the matter of
education, and gave encouragement to the
same. Measures will be taken to make the
Territorial Normal School an annual occasion,
we believe, so satisfactory has been the experi-
ment this season.
	The excellent regulations of the Fire
Brigade in this city deserve honorable mention.
We recently had the pleasure, in company of
some friends conducted by Chief Engineer 
McAllister, of visiting the apartments occupied
by the company by the City Hall, were a given
number of the members each evening and
night, are required to spend their time. Noth-
ing seems to be wanting, necessary for the im-
provement and enjoyment of those engaged in
this worthy vocation; and, as was observed by
a lady friend, among the splendid rules by
which the company is governed, one chief 
excellence is that smoking and the entire use
of tobacco is strictly forbidden. We were also
pleased with the appearance of the Council
Chamber which has lately been r fitted.
	Of the many essential and inestimable
suggestions given by the Elders for the edifica-
tion of the Saints, at the two days meetings on
the 9th and 10th insts., nothing is of more im-
portance to parents than the directions offered
for the training of the young in the ways of
chastity and virtue. If children are taught to
honor and practice pure and perfect principles, it
is an unquestionable fact that they will abhor
everything of a corrupt and voluptuous nature;and that which they love they will voluntarily
cling to, while that which they hate they will
rigorously avoid. Mothers who have great joy
in their sons are those who faithfully instill
into their sons’ minds, the wisdom of abstain-
ing from the use of tobacco and other unwhole-
some stimulants; for indulgence in one sensual
habit only awakens desire for the gratification
of other like propensities, and it is temptation
which leads to sin. From the appearance of
some young people who frequent the streets of
this city, we fear there are too many unhappy
mothers in Israel.


﻿WOMAN'S DUTIES.

	What a vast amount has been said and
written on the duties of woman, and how
severely she is censured for the non-per-
formance of those duties. We will admit
there are many who never learn what their
duty is, or learning it, neglect it most
shamefully.
	On the other hand, there are thousands
who bravely battle with the trials of life,
seeking to render their homes comfortable
and attractive, striving to assist and benefit
their partners in life, but whose career,
shut out from the public ken [-]y the seclu-
sion of home, is never known beyond the
retirement of the home circle, and conse-
quently never receives its just meed of
praise. The name of the conqueror—the
statesman—may illuminate the pages of
history, while self-sacrificing, woman sinks
into obscurity, and her name is forgotten.


The Shoe and Leather Chronicle is
the name of one of the latest publications
started in New York.


﻿“Why is the letter “d” like a ring?"
asked a young lady of her lover, who was
dull as are the generality of his sex in such
a situation. “Because,” said the damsel,
with a modest look, “we” can’t be “wed”
without it.
	How much better we’d get along in this
sphere of ours were we less prone to neglect
our own business to attend to that of our
neighbors! But I suppose that is to
happen in the Golden Age, which looks
as though it never would arrive. There is
a great deal we can do one another in the
way of true, genuine kindness, but it is too
often left undone, because it is so much
easier to do evil than good, and to say
mischievous, spiteful things, than pleasant
and charitable ones. Fault-finding comes
handier than praise, but it isn’t half so good,
if you did but know it. Come now, let’s you
and I see if we can’t all join hands, and say
we won’t mind anybody’s business except
our own, but will work for others’ good, and
not evil.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.		THE WAY THEY DO.

	Some discriminating critic has said
“Fanny Fern has much to answer for in
raising up a regiment of literary termagants
in the land;” and as I have the deliberate
intention of showing my claws this morning,
it is a very convenient theory, since she is
not here to speak for herself, and I may lay
the burden of my sins upon her without the
least danger of being taken to task for it.
	So now, Mrs. Smith, Jones or Robinson,
be prepared, for I know a tale about you and
I am going to tell it without further per-
mission than a defiant “Contradict me if
you dare!”
	You are a young matron whose girlhood,
with its peculiar tastes and feelings, stands
so near you that you could almost touch the
hem of its garments; you think your hus-
band about perfection; you have one baby
old enough to toddle about, call you her
"sweet little muzzer” and be the light of
your eyes; and in your family lives an aunt
whom you greatly respect
	Well, every body knows how sultry and
oppressive the summer has been thus far.
Every breath of air stirs up dust in a state
of white heat, the chickens drag their wings
and birds would be too lazy to sing if they
were not all “out of town.”
	Your husband is absent on business much
of the time, and you have to be both master
and mistress about home; cut your own
wood, water your own garden and do your
own marketing—when you have anything
to market with—but as you pride yourself
on your cheerfulness and independence,
you do not even sigh over all this.
	The July holidays come on, and, although
you used to make it a rule never to miss a
celebration, you have not the heart to attend
this time, because Charles is still absent and
when one has a husband she does not like
to go alone into society, like a widow or old
maid; and so you make yourself and Rose-
bud neat and stay at home to read—not a
novel, but “[-]eecher on Revivals” and “Prof.
Young on the heavenly bodies,” and to
think of your absent lord. “After all,”
you tell yourself, “there would be little
comfort in swelling the mass of panting
patriotism to-day assembled to review the
glories and achievements of the past.
	The holidays being over you suppose
every one will settle down to your dead
level of laziness and weariness, but with a
glad surprise that rouses your languid pulses
to a perfect thrill of delight, you learn that
the whole village, moved by a common im-
pulse of longing for a breath of fresh air, has
appointed a day to ride and ramble

		“The rugged hills among.
		And by the rushing waters.”

	This suits your mind exactly, and you
wish fervently that dear Charles were at
home while there is still time to make
arrangement, for the delightful holiday. To
be sure, you “could” go if he should not re-
turn; for there are your old playmate Nellie
and her husband would give you an
invitation to ride in their light wagon on the
slightest intimation that you would like to
go; and there are friend Matthew and wife,
and others you could mention, who, you feel
sure, would willingly join you to their
family party. And you reflect—with moth-
erly pride and tenderness how little Rosebud
would enjoy the day among the cool trees
and bushes, how lovely she would look in
her while dress, blue-dotted apron and straw
hat crowned with wild flowers; and how
proud you would be to lead her by the hand
among the happy mothers, the graceful
dancers and the laughing boys and girls
about the swings.
	But then Charles—you know you would
miss him, and besides the dear fellow might
feel a little sad to think you could really
enjoy such an excursion without him; or he
might return during your absence to find
only an empty house, and, in his loneliness,
he might think you ungrateful for all his
toil and care.
	You decide that such a thing would be
too dreadful; and mentally kissing the object
of all this sentimentalism, and vowing you
would not hurt his feelings for all the
pleasure parties in the world, you dismiss
all thought of going and betake yourself to
household duties as a loving wife should.
	Late in the evening, the last before the
one appointed for the ride, your dear Charles
returns. You are delighted to see him; you
offer him supper, clean clothes, etc. but not
until next morning, after more important
topics have been disposed of, do you men-
tion the riding party. Your lord pricks up
his ears with, “Is that so?” “Half past
seven,” you answer. “And it is now after
five; well, it is too late for me to rig up a
team now, but I’ll tell you what we’ll do.
I’ll go out in town for some nice groceries
while you dress Baby in her prettiest dress,
and we’ll have a little home holiday and a
cozy dinner together. What do you say,
wife?”
	The darling fellow! you are so happy to
think a day passed quietly at home could be
a holiday to him, that you are a thousand
times glad you had not made any arrange-
ment to go abroad. Full of happy thoughts,
you set about dressing Rosebud while
Charles goes on his errand. Presently he
returns laden with parcels, and overlooking
Baby, who runs to meet him looking like a
little white bird, he tells you hurriedly that
“Brown and them” encountered him over
in town, and nothing would do but that he
must go out with them to see what the
pic-nic-ers were doing. He explains that
he had no idea of such a thing when he left
the house, but that they were good fellows
and he didn’t wish to offend them.
	All your boasted “independence” could
not keep your countenance from falling, and
as your husband is neither blind nor a fool,
he asks compunctiously, “Would you like
to go too?” “No,” you answer softly,
winking very hard to keep back the tears
while he says in a relieved sort of way, and
with the air of one who has done his whole
duty, “I didn’t think you would, since
there are to be only men in the carriage,
and I am only an invited party; but you
and Aunty can make yourselves comfortable
here and have your little dinner together
all the same as if I was with you.” Then
with hasty adieux your adorable Charles
hastens away to his bachelor friends and a
day among the rocks.
	No longer able to conceal your tears, you
throw yourself face downward on your bed,
grieved to the heart, not for the loss of a
day’s pleasure, but for the bitterness of the
discovery that all your delicate consideration
unheeded, was and because the slight and
loneliness you would not risk putting upon
him, he would lay upon you ten times mag-
nified. You think if some other member of
his family were present and he had gone in
attendance upon her as a respectable family-
man should, you would not have felt one
pang even after telling him you were half
sick with longing to go. But to slip in, an
invited guest among those bachelors and
lawyers, with a “boughten” picnic, like any
floating character, you call it an insult to his
family, and wish “Brown and them” were
on the other side of Jordan, and declare to
Aunty that if you knew where to procure a
horse and saddle, you would go yet.  You
do not cease until Baby, with all the solici-
tude of a full fledged woman, lisps forth, in
imitation of Aunty’s rather impatient ex-
hortation, “No-o, mine muzzer, don’t ’ou
bawl about it,” and sets you to laughing in
spite of yourself.
	Then you rise, kiss the little comforter,
bathe your eyes, finish the decoration of
your person and appartment, and utterly
ignoring the dainty materials for a dinner
which was to console you for a slight like
this, you beg Aunty to take charge of Rose-
bud, and sit down to tell the Exponent all
about it; hoping in your secret soul that
“he” will read it and be very indignant,
thus proving that his conscience pricks him.
However, you have no idea that he, or any
one else who might need the hint, would
take it to himself; so you are obliged to
console yourself with the certainty that
scores of wives, young and old, in similar
circumstances will exclaim—“Isn’t that the
truth?” “Just the way they do!” and ap-
plaude your fixed resolution to learn a lesson
from this experience, and, where you can
in the future, take care of yourself.
							L. L. D.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
					
	A ROOT of a tree containg a brick is the
latest addition to Egolf's museum.
	AN English jury assessed the value of a
mouthful, taken out of a man's leg by a dog,
at $250.
	KEEP your store of smiles and your kind-
est thoughts for home, give to the world
only those you have to spare.
	THE habit of looking on the best side of 
every event is worth more than a thousand
pounds a year.—“Dr. Johnson.”
	The Chinese have recently been organiz-
ing their army, which now numbers 300,000
men armed with the Enfield, Remington
and Colt rifles, and with a full compliment
of rifled artillery.
	TEMPLE'S comet has been observed by
Herr Pechule, at Hamburg, and by several
other observers. It may now be considered
to some extent a permanent member of our
system. Its next return will be looked for
early in 1879.
	AN Illinois magistrate has fined a man
$10 for cutting off his wife's back hair.
Under what statute such an offence is
ranked we are not informed. Perhaps
under the head of barberous treatment and
shear brutality.
	THE name of England, commonly sup-
posed to be a corruption of the word Auglos,
is in reality derived from a village near
Sleswick in Denmark, named Angleu, whose
population was the first to join the Saxon
freebooters in their invasion of Great Britian.
	AN Irish physician was called to examine
the corpse of another Irishman, who had
been assassinated by some of his country-
men. "This person," said he, after inspect-
ing the body, "was so ill that if he had not
been murdered, he would have died half an
hour before.”
	A BACHELOR friend is in trouble. He
has a pet calf that entered his room the
other day during his absence, ate a dozen
cakes of perfumed toilet soap, chewed into
tatters all his Sunday shirts, swallowed his
last pair of socks, knocked down all his
furniture in the room, and then quietly took
a nap on the floor until his return. He
thinks the cool impudence of that calf is
incomprehensible.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	A correspondent of the Exponent, from
whom we had not heard for some time,
observing that we noticed her silence with
regret, privately sends us an excuse for the
same, which is well worthy of publication;
and we give it accordingly, under the above
heading:— 
	I have lost many a good idea since last I
had a pen in my hand, for want of opportu-
nity to transcribe it. But my time has been
very well employed in another way.
	Sister Elizabeth, my husband’s wife, has
been very ill, and she is living out of town
without any neighbors. Added to the
pain and dreariness of sickness was the
mother’s distress over the consciousness that
little worn garments were sadly in need of
being replaced, and the sewing machine
stood idle in the corner.
	I went to her assistance, helped to nurse
her, cook for the dusty laborers, and to
comfort the lonely, restless little ones; and
fitted and basted while her young daughter
sat at the sewing machine, until she, (Eliz-
abeth,) said quite a load was removed from
her mind.
While with her I cut nearly a dozen dresses,
and worked over eighty button holes, be-
sides mending and other sewing, and a
share in the housework; and I am as proud
of it as I could be of a flaming article which
would fix the eyes of thousands.
							L. L. D.

	Private letters from sisters Agatha A.
Pratt and Mary A. Pratt, written in Mea-
dowville, in the vicinity of Bear Lake
Valley, from which we make the following
extracts, have been politely committed to
our consideration by Sister Ann Neal, of the
19th Ward Relief Society.
  *  *  I enjoyed my journey to this place
very much. I traveled by rail from Salt
Lake to Evanston, distance one hundred
and fifteen miles, arrived about one p. m.,
started about two in the stage, traveled
thirty-five miles; making one hundred and
fifty miles in one day, which, I thought was
pretty good for Utah.
	I was much interested with the scenery
in Weber and Echo kanyons. Passing
swiftly through tunnels and over bridges, I
could not help thinking of the time when
our brethren were there so long, and what
an excellent chance they had to throw down
rocks if they had needed to in defence
against their enemies. And how the Lord
accepted of their sacrifices and delivered
His people.
	I have often thought that if I had not
had a testimony previously, that this was
the work of God, I should have known from
that time forth.
	The most beautiful sight on the journey
was the magnificent view of Bear Lake,
seen from the summit between Bear river
and Bear lake. In the foreground was the
beautiful clear bosom of the lake, the lovli-
est shade of blue imaginable; and in the
background, rose from the edge of the lake
high mountains, black with pine, while in
every hollow and crevice lay the pure white
snow, which, in the distance, looked like
gigantic marbeling. Taken altogether, it
presented to my view, one of the grandest
and most impressive sights I ever saw.
	This is a pleasant little valley, called
from its shape, "Round Valley," an excel-
lent country for stock raising, milk and
butter. It is much higher and colder than
Salt Lake valley. It is so cold now, (May
29th,) that we have to keep a good fire all
the time; and I sleeping in a wagon-box
need fully as much bedding as I did in the
winter.
	Every thing here is so quiet, the same
calm, unbroken monotony, every day alike
except Sundays, when the men stay home
from the fields. There are no meetings
held here, as there is no house suitable for
that purpose at present. We never fully
realize our blessings till we are deprived of
them, and I think meetings will seem good
to me when I get home again. *  *  * 
 					June 29th.  
* *  I thank God for such good, kind,
faithful co-workers as my dear sisters of the
19th Ward, Relief Society have proved
themselves to be. And I hope that their
interest will not slacken in the good work
in which we are engaged. For though we
may be able to do but little, comparatively,
still if we do that little willingly and dili-
gently, we shall have our reward. I often
think we have our reward in the satisfactory
knowledge that we are endeavoring to do
what is required of us day by day.
	I congratulate Addie upon her marriage
and sincerely hope she will be happy. I
honor and respect a young lady who bravely
and fearlessly enters into that order which
God has revealed for our eternal exaltation,
and I trust she will be enabled to acquit her-
self honorably each day she lives.
	My warmest congratulations and kindest
remembrance to Sister Louise, for whom I
entertain sincere feelings of love and respect.
And my best wishes for the continued suc-
cess of our household paper, the EXPONENT.
My daughter receives hers regularly and is
much pleased with its high toned senti-
ments.
	Kind love to all my sisters.
						A. A. PRATT.

	To the sisters of the 19th Ward Relief
Society, Salt Lake City.
   *   *  You are ensuring to yourselves
the reward promised to the faithful. The
blessings of the poor are upon your labors;
and that is a great satisfaction to those who
spend a portion of their time for the good of
others. This we never find to be a loss but
a constant gain. I often think, “to this end
were we created—not for self alone, but to
assist in making others as happy as our-
selves. Motives of this character, will
create a heaven for all.
	What a joyful time it will be for the
Saints when they can live by the law of
Enoch, and there will be no poor in their
midst. May the Lord hasten His time and
cut short His work in righteousness, that a
pure and holy people may be saved by His
just law.
	Journals and records from abroad testify
that the earth is groaning in wickedness,
and very soon its cup of iniquity will be full.
	What manner of Saints should we be?
Like the world filled with pride and vain
notions of fashion? If our righteousness
does not exceed theirs, shall we escape the
condemnation? 
	Even here in Meadowville, far away from
grog shops, my ears have been pained to
hear oaths from our young men, using the
name of God in a most blasphemous manner,
debasing themselves below the dumb beasts;
boys raised by parents belonging to the
Latter-day Saints! I ask myself, “Is there
no help for such conduct?” What an ex-
ample to set before the world! A people
professing to have received the only true
Gospel, having young elders given to drunk-
enness and daughters to pride and vanity.
	There must be too much indulgence and
too little reproof. Evil ought to be put down.
Liquor should be sold only for medicine.
More means should be given to the poor
Saints at home and abroad, more spent in
building Temples, and less in decorating
our own earthly tabernacles; more time
should be spent in improving the mind and
less wasted in idle thoughts, without weight
or substance.
	Love to all, from your affectionate sister
in the Gospel,
				Mary Ann Pratt.

Dear Editor Exponent:—Although far
removed from the “fountain head” of light
and knowledge, my interest in the great
work we have espoused does not diminish.
And I tender you my thanks for your most
excellent paper which duly comes to hand
and is read with much sastisfaction. I am
grateful to my Heavenly Father that the
day has dawned when the long misjudged
and misrepresented women of Utah have
opportunity to express their own views and
faith in regard to the principles of the
Gospel as believed and practiced by the
Latter-day Saints. When the world can
know, if it will take trouble to see, that we
have not only liberty of speech but also of
the press; and that we, ourselves, have
freely chosen the path we walk in, and
possess, many of us, independence and in-
tegrity enough to sustain it. For more than
thirty-nine years I have been a member of
this Church, and have never for one moment
doubted the sacred authenticity of its doc-
trines. Many years I have lived in polyg-
amy, and do not find it the great bug-bear that
many imagine it to be, but quite the reverse;
And I esteem it as a divine institution
revealed from heaven for the furtherance of
the work of God in the regeneration of
mankind and the redemption of the world.
A great deal might be said in defense of
this much talked of and often abused princi-
ple. But knowing that Truth will prevail,
and that God is at the helm, I am content
for the present, with having said this little.
						Arete.
George Town, Oneieda Co., Idaho.


A class in journalism, commencing with
the present term, has been organized in the
Iowa Wesleyan University. It admits the
best writers in the advanced classes, who
may wish to give themselves to editorial
writing. The class, it is said, has begun its
work with a good deal of enthusiasm


﻿“A logician and a swimmer,” says a
Persian story, “were in a boat together.
Said the logician to the swimmer, ‘Have
you ever studied logic?’  ‘I never heard
the name till now,' was the reply. ‘Alas!'
said the logician ‘then has half of your life
been drowned in ignorance!’ Just then a
squall came up. Says the swimmer to the
logician, 'Have you ever learned anything
of swimming?’ ‘Nothing but logic,’ was
the reply. ‘Alas! said the swimmer ‘then
the whole of your life is drowned!” The
moral of this, our teacher told us, is that
logicians sometimes get beyond their depth.
	“Go straight on and don’t mind enemies.
If they get in your way walk around them
regardless of their spite. A celebrated
character who was surrounded by enemies
used to remark, ‘They are sparks which, if
you do not blow, will go out of themselve.’
'Live down prejudice,’ was the Iron Duke’s
motto. Let this be your feeling while
endeavoring to live down the scandal of
those who are bitter against you. If you
stop to dispute, you do but as they desire
and open the way for more abuse. Let the
poor fellow talk—there will be a reaction if
you do but perform your duty: and hundreds
who were once alienated from you will flock
to you and acknowledge their error.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MID-AIR COMPROMISE.

	Not many years ago and not far from the
City of Elmira at a locality known as “The
Female College,” the circumstances which
we are about to relate took place. It seems
that the principal of the college accidentally
overheard a plan among a number of his
young lady students of drawing a young
gentleman up to one of the third story rooms
“in a basket at night,” as no gentlemen
suitors were permitted to visit their college
lady loves and see them alone under the
strict rules of the institution.
	The principal acted accordingly, and at
the appointed time was at the designated
spot, and when the basket was let down,
took the lover’s place gave the signal "twitch”
and commenced going up towards Heaven,
drawn by a trinity or two of angels. (?)
When two-thirds up, the angel expectation,
on looking down, discovered to her terror
and dismay that instead of her lover she
had another man in the basket, and nearly
frightened out of her wits, made the fact
known to her fair helpers in mischief, with
the pertinent inquiry, “What shall we do?”
Whereupon one of their number, noted for
her coolness and presence of mind in trying
emergencies, said:
	“Here! you hold on this cord! Now, do
just as I tell you, and I’ll take care of the
man, no matter who he is or where he comes
from.” 
	Then, taking out her pocket-knife and
opening it, she leaned out of the window,
and in a low but firm voice said: “Who are
you in the basket?”
	No response.
	“I say, who are you in the basket? Do
you hear? I have a knife in my hand, and
unless you answer in less than ten seconds I
will cut the rope.”
	"Why it’s your principal, don’t you know
me? Don’t, for mercy’s sake, cut the rope!
Keep your knife further away from it!”
	“Well, you are in a pretty fix, Professor;
a pretty fix indeed, hanging between heaven
and earth, between life and death. What
do you think ought to be done with you?
A principal of a female college who thus
endeavors at night to clandestinely reach
the room of a lady student ought to be
severely punished and exposed."
	“Oh! I beg of you not to harm me, but
let me down again carefully, and don’t let
the rope slip.”
	“Professor,” said the shrewd beauty, “on
one condition only will we comply with
your request.”
	“Name it! name it!”
	“You must solemnly promise that none of
us who have been engaged in this little
romance shall be disciplined for it, and that
you will make no mention of it to a living
soul while we are inmates of this college
with the understanding that we observe the
same solemn promise. What say you?”
	“I promise—solemnly promise.”
	“Very well. Hold up your right hand.
You solemnly swear that you will faithfully
keep and observe that promise, so help you
God!”
	“I do!”
	“Enough, girls. He has taken the oath.
Lower away.”
	The “professor" was soon carefully landed
once more on terra firma, greatly to his own
relief and greatly to the joy, no doubt, of the
other party of the compromise, and he lived
up to his oath. In after years, however,
when time had absolved him from it, and
the lover whose basket he monopolized on
that eventful night had, as the story goes,
married the girl—who on that occasion was
so “far above him”—the professor used to
tell the adventure to his particular friends,
and laugh over it till the tears ran down his
cheeks, as the most ludicrous scrape he ever
got into in all his college life, and as the only
one he was let out of under an oath admin-
istered—“Ex.”


﻿THE SEX.

	The degree of A. B. has been conferred
upon Hannah E. Haley, by Bates College,
of Lewiston, Me.
	A Princeton, Illinois girl, died of grief
because her new spring hat fell into the
river and was ruined.
	Miss Linda Gilbert has become a liner
of the cloud of crime with silver, by found-
ing libraries for prisons.
	A Sister of Col. Mosby, of confederate
fame, has been appointed as clerk in the
dead letter office at Washington.
	There is no danger that Parepa-Rosa
will ever be shipwrecked on the ocean, for
she is always safe on the high C’s.
	Mrs. Berlah hunt, of Randolph, Mass.,
died, aged one hundred and four years.
She retained her memory to the last.
	Ella Wood and her father, of Dover, N.
H., were shot by Henry Jewett, recently,
because the lady wouldn’t be wooed by him.
	Norwegian girls who have been doing
kitchen-work in Iowa at $3:50 a week, are
hiring out to work in the harvest fields at
from $2 to $3 per day.
	A spightly girl in Fort Fdward, N. J.,
who engaged herself to a young man “in
fun," fainted on hearing that he had pub-
lished the same in a local paper.
	The trustees of the Chicago University
have voted to admit young women to the
full privileges of the university, on the same
footing as young men.
	An old woman in Maine crossed over a
bridge that was marked “dangerous” with-
out seeing the sign. On being informed of
the fact on the other side she turned about
in great alarm and recrossed it.
	A literary curiosity, “The Poems of
Mary, Queen of Scotts,” is in preparation.
The verses of this Queen, collected from
original and obscure sources, will be prefaced
with an introduction by Mr. Julian Shar-
man.
	The Wochenblatt, speaking of women
in Germany, says that the further they
keep themselves from politics the more
zealously do they mix themselves in
religious questions, and introduce into them
all the love and hate of which their nature
is capable.
	A prominent official in the Internal
Revenue Bureau states that if the female
clerks of that Bureau were permitted to
compete for the vacant $1,400 clerkships,
they would be appointed to two-thirds of
the vacancies over men employed in that
bureau.
	Miss Frances E. Willard, President of
the Evanston College for Ladies, has been
appointed by governor Beveridge, Commis-
sioner for the State of Illinois to the
“Woman’s Centennial Jubilee,” which is
to be held March 4, 1876, in connection with
the National Centennial Anniversary.
	Eleven thousand women signed an ad-
dress thanking Mr. Disraeli for his general
good offices to the Woman Suffrage move-
ment in England. In reply Mr. Disraeli
says he is so persuaded of the injurious
character of the present restrictions against
female participation in the franchise that he
hopes they will be removed by the wisdom
of Parliament.


CALDER & CARELESS,

	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.

	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, “P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City.”
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

		NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con- 
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$13 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and & superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling 
	price $4		-	-	-	-		48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


﻿A Conscientious Pittsburg man prom-
ised his wife, the other day, that he
would’nt drink another drop as long as he
had a hair on his head. That very night
he had his head shaved smooth, and then
got drunk, with a proud consciousness of
having faithfully kept his promise.


Woman's Exponent.
VOl. 2. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, September 1, 1873.	 No. 7.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Political meetings, held in different
States of the Union, indicate that the wars
of the politicians are not yet an end.
	A sad story is told of a fire, which de-
stroyed the “Widows' and Orphans' Home"
in Kansas City, Missouri, a short time since,
rendering its inmates houseless.
	Shooting is becoming about as common
as divorces were a short time ago.  What
will be the next sensational strike of the
fashionables, by way of settling accounts?
	That Queen Victoria is a “liberal” in
politics, the English Tories, it appears, have
but lately discovered.  Yet why the belie
should have been entertained that she was
ever anything else, is not made manifest.
	Maggie Elphick, the Greenwich heroine,
has been presented with an elegant gold
watch and chain, by the father of the boy
she lately saved from drowning.  So much
more, for being a swimmer and cool headed!
	Miss Lottie Moon, has been selected as a
missionary to China, from Catersville,
Georgia. Doubtless the selection was a very
appropriate one, and Miss Moon will do
great good among the "children of the
Sun."  
	The advocates of “woman suffrage” in
England, as well as in this country, still
persevere in their efforts to obtain for
women their just privileges and rights.
We hope, ere many years, to see the subject
of “Woman’s rights” generally  understood
far more correctly and fully than it is at the
present time. 
	A Senator elect, declares that members
of Congress will have families in Washing-
ton, and it is better that they have their own.
That will do, provided  the people are not
taxed for the support of those families; and
if Congressmen have become so attached
to their home circles that their hearts
cannot bear separation for a few months.
	The fair taxpayers of San Francisco
have determined on having fair play in
future. They have met, and “resolved”
that until they are represented in the legis-
lative assemblies of the nation, they will
pay no more taxes.  Why should they?
They have right to a voice in making any
law which they are expected to respect and
help to support.
	Miss Nelly de Matamarre de Treby,
a young French lady—who during the war,
plunged a knife into the breast of a Prussian
officer, who, in her father's house, ventured
to put his arm around her waist—has lately
taken the veil. Had it been the "bridal
veil” there would have been more cheeri-
ness in the thought than there is in the con-
templation of her being a nun.
	The first instance, so said, in which a
white man has been sentenced according to
law, to suffer death for killing an Indian,
has occurred in Idaho. The criminal James
Picket, about a year ago, killed an Indian
woman almost instantly with a miner’s
pick.   He was  tried, convicted and sen-
tenced to death by the civil court of Idaho.
The Attorney General refuses to recommend
that he be pardoned;
	Several newspapers are now published
[new column]
in the United states, of which, portions are
under the editorial control of ladies. This
is as it should be. But when women thus
favored, make mention of “those naughty
men,” they should never forget to make
exceptions; keeping in mind that the men
are not “all” selfish braggarts. They call
for “fair play”—they should, then, be care-
ful not to manifest a disposition to take
more than their own just rights.
	Party feeling among politicians is pre-
senting rather foreboding aspects in different
localities. The Liberals, Democrats, Repub-
licans and all kinds of office seekers in
nearly all the States are shaking fists and
making grimaces at each other. Bickering
and backbiting will continue to grow worse
and worse, apparently, until a Wasington,
or some kind of a washing machine can
be obtained, of sufficient force to cleanse
the country of some of its corruption.
	One of the most fearful railroad disasters
yet recorded, recently occurred on the
Chicago and Alton railroad, from the collid-
ing of a freight train and a passenger train.
Many souls were instanttly hurried into
eternity, and many others died subsequently
from injuries received—as recorded, not
less than one hundred in all! And this
time, the recklessness of the conductor of
the freight train, whose name is Bean, is so
strikingly apparent that officers are in search
for him; and he will likely be brought to
justice 
	Pioche has had one of the most terrifiic
storms we have lately seen recorded. In
ten minutes from the time the storm com-
menced, a dispatch states, that “a sheet of
water three feet deep was boiling and cut-
ting through the entire width and length of
Main street, sweeping everything in its
path.” And the rain continued pouering
incessantly for two hours! Some of the
sins of the Piochers ought to be washed
away, certainly, quite an amount of their
property went at any rate.
	Mayfield, Santa Clara County, Califor-
nia, has an ambitious man, Mr. William
Paul, who is likely to do good service to the
country, and also enrich himself by engag-
ing rather extensively in the silk manufac-
turing business. He has now a great
number of mulberry trees four years old,
and has lately erected a large cocoonery in
which a party of experienced silk growers
will be employed. A considerable amount
of means might be profitably invested by a
few Utah capitalists in the production of
silk, and thus furnish suitable employment
to a goodly number of females.
	The Prince of Wales has occasion to be
prouder than ever of his royal title, since
the great triumph of the chorists at the
Christal Palace—the sweetest if not the
most glorious and famous victory which has
been recorded for ages. On the 10th of
July, a grand trial of musical abilities was
made at the above named palace in London,
by English and Welsh singers, the latter
proving greatly superior to the former, and
carrying off the £l,000, which was the prize
offered to the winners.  Marked attention
and honors were afterwards bestowed upon
them by the Prince himself and his royal
consort.
[new column]
	It is scarcely realized by most readers
how the slightest omission or misapplica-
tion of a point in punctuation, a word or
letter may completely change the meaning
of a sentence. Or what great care must
necessarily be taken by those who write and
prepare copy for the press, and also by the
compositor, not to mislead their readers.
An instance occurred in one of our editorial
notes, in the last sisue of the Exponent,
in which, by the omission of a quotation
mark, we made it appear that “Grace Green-
wood” is almost a believer in the “Mormon
system of marriage,” which, we think is
not the case, though she is really a sensible
woman in most respects.
	“The Balance” says, “The Salt Lake
Exponent doesn’t tell us anything about
the divorce suit of Mrs. Brigham Young No.
17.”  By way of explanation for this seem-
ing omission, we beg to inform our Chicago
friend that our columns have been crowded
with other matters which were of greater
weight in our estimation. We believed,
at the beginning of said suit, it would all
end in “nothing,” and considered that
a journal as young as ours is, and as popular
as it is becoming, should yet continue to
treat its readers to “something.” We,
however, take pleasure in referring “The
Balance to the “Deseret Evening News,”
or Salt Lake “Daily Herald,” papers of
longer standing and greater experience
than the Exponent, for information con-
cerning the Ann Eliza Webb Young divorce
suit, if it is really wanted.  We venture to
suggest, too, that “The Balance” should
learn the truth before publishing news con-
cerning matters of importance, as the fol-
lowing statement which it has is entirely
incorrect: “Brigham claims that she has a
living husband from whom she is not
divorced—this was no objection to her
while she was content to remain an inte-
grant Mrs. Young.”


Grand Rapids, Mich., has a woman sex-
ton.


THE LATEST CASE OF MONMANIA.—A
very “fast” young gentleman, who fancied
himself a pendulum, and always went upon
"tick," went on so long that he never dis-
covered his delusion until he found a "turn-
key," by whom he was carefully wound
up in the Queen’s Bench.—“English Paper.”


A MISAPPREHENSION.—"Are you fond of
novels, Mr. Jones?”—“very,” responded the
interrogated gentleman, who wished to be
thought by the lady questioner a lover of
literature. “Have you,” continued the in-
quisitive lady, “ever read "Ten Thousand
a-Year?"—“No, madame; I never read so
many novels in all my life.”


YANKEE "ENTICEMENT.—An American
sailor lately gave evidence before a court of
law at Boston in case of assault. He stated
that “ Jack” (the traverser) had powerfully
enticed Sam (the complainant). Jack's
counsel asked him to explain what he meant
by the word entice. “ Why, sir, I mean
this—Jack took a big handspike, and drove
it plump in Sam’s back. That’s what I calls
enticing.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent.﻿
		A WARNING.

TO THE OVER-WORKING ONES.
				Stop now!
Listen to the working brain—
'Tis trying hard your ear to gain,
List n to its dizzy whirl— 
It seems the steam is in a boil.
And needs a fresh supply of oil,
As if it did most surely try,
Off in a tangent for to fly, 
And get away from toil and sweat,
And leave “unfinish’d rooms to let !”

					Stop now, 
Attend ! and bend your ear to know
That heart’s quick palpitating throe,
That every minute takes a rest— 
Sure this should be a warning test—
And then succeeds the weak’ning limbs,
The warning lamp, that nothing trims,
Repose alone can feed the fire,
That lacking rest, will soon expire,
Be wise “in time”— and if your health,
To you is truly "mines" of wealth
			Stop now!

So I listen'd—and I found
Enough of heart and brain still sound,
		To redeem
		The whole machine, 
If I put “the Brake” upon 
All the work through which I’d gone;
So right there, and then, I dropt
All my labor, and I stopt, 
And shook myself from every chain
And rambled on the mountain plain, 
A free-born spirit once again,
Without an ache—without a rain,
	A world of wealth    
	In luscious health,
	Because I heard
	The spirit word,
	(And did obey
	Without delay)
			Stop now.
				Hannah T. King.
G  S. L. City.


﻿R. S. REPORTS. 
	Spring City, August 5th 1873. We held
our annual meeting, June 6th, which should
have been held May 4th. but on account of
sickness which prevailed at that time,
meeting was dispensed with for fear of
spreading the fever, which seems to have
subsided now. President Olesen was pre-
sent; he spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters, said they had gone for beyond his
expectations, and thought they had done
exceedingly well under their circumstances.
He gave some very good advice.
	We have been taking your paper the
past year and wish to continue taking it, it
is a very good little paper and we wish it
good success.
We remain as ever yours respectfully
				Mrs. P. Benson.
		-------------------
	Meeting at Mendon, August 7th, 1873.
The meeting was openend in the usual
manner, by singing and prayer. After
which, Sister Maughan, of Logan, gave us
a very interesting discourse upon the duties
of the sisters, some of the chief points being
for them to take proper care of their chil-
dren, to train them up in the way they
should walk; to be careful and close their
doors before retiring to rest at night for they
knew not how soon some person, or persons,
who were not honest might make an
attempt to appropriate another’s property to
their own interest, or perhaps do worse; for
the sisters not to labor so hard, so that they
might enjoy more fully the spirit of their
calling. Her remarks were few and to the
point. Our President,Sister Elizabeth Willie,
then made a few very appropriate remarks
upon the principles of the Gospel; endors-
ing the remarks of Sister maughan. She
was followed by sisters Meria Baker and
Sophia Anderson (Counselors) who spoke
upon the necessity of our living our religion
and being obedient to the Priesthood.
[new column]
Sisters Hancock. Graham, Huges, Walker,
Sonne, Baker and Richards, each made
remarks, speaking on various subjects of
interest which were beneficial to those
present. The meeting was then dismissed
by singing and prayer. We wish the EX-
PONENT, success and its Editor prosperity,
	Yours 
		ELIZABETH WILLIE, President.
		E. J. BAKER, Clerk.
			——
	BRIGHAM CITY, August 10th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR—I appreciate your excellent
paper and know that many of my sisters
receive it it as a blessing, wishing it great
success and considering it an instrument of
great worth, in disseminating light, know-
ledge and truth, with every principle
calculated to enlighten, exalt, and prepare
us for a broader sphere of action; I wish it
a more extensive circulation. The mem-
bers of our Relief Society generally feel
well, and are ready to cast in their mites to
assist in the work which lies before us; we
raised upwards of one hundred and twenty
dollars this spring, for the special purpose
of assisting in gathering the poor, which,
with what we had previously gathered for
that purpose, amounted to over two hun-
dred dollars, this amount we sent to assist
in emigrating Saints this year, while we
are trying to do the best we can with our
means for the benefit of our poor at home
and our Society generally.
		HARIET A. SNOW, President
				--------
	August 11th, 1873. The Tokerville Relief
Societywas organized June 11th, 1868.
Wo have not made as much progress as
some, but as a Society, are trying to do the
best we can. The sisters are united in their
efforts to do good. We have helped the
poor at home and abroad, and donated what
we could for the building of the Temple, we
also have shares in the Washington Cotton
Factory and the Co-operative store at this
place—besides some means in the Treasury.
	Yours respectfully,
		SARAH M. WILLIS, President.
		FANNY SPILSBURY,
		ANN HIGBEE		Counselor
		ANNIE JACKSON, Secretary,
		ANN HIGBEE, Treasurer.
	DEAR EDITOR:—I send you a brief report
of a meeting held August 6th, 1873, at the
residence , of Brother E. R. Young, Sugar
House Ward, President Mrs. Sarah Gibson
presiding. After singing and prayer the
financial report for the past year was read,
and satisfactorily received. Much good
instruction was given and a good spirit
prevailed, many sisters bearing their testi-
monies, and expressing their willingness to
do all in their power for the upbuilding
of the Kingdom of God on the earth.
	With kind wishes for the success of the
EXPONENT, I am.yours affectionately,
		SARAH E. WHEELER, Secretary.
	Miss M. A. Jenkins, Secretary of the
Young Lady’s Rretrenchment Association
of the 4th Ward, favors us with minutes of
their Twenty-Second meeting, held in 4th
Ward Relief Society Room, July 15th, 1873.
	After the opening ceremonies President
Miss Mary E. Bailey spoke as follows: It is
a very difficult task for me to arise and
speak to you; still, I wish to do all that
is required of me; and as I am placed in the
position of President, I know it to be my duty
to set an example by speaking. If we come
to meeting with light hearts and determin-
ation to perform every duty, the Lord will
bless and help us. I would like all to attend
[new column]
the meetings in the 14th Ward as often as
possible. By listening to the instructions
given there, we are better able to speak to,
and instruct others. We miss our late
President much; feel that there is one
missing from the circle and that we have
lost a friend and a leader: for she did lead 
us with kindness: she encouraged and
helped us, and set an example we all should 
strive to imitate, by learning her lessons well, 
and attending our meetings punctually. We
will ask our older sisters to come in occa-
sionally, and talk to us and cheer us up. I
would like to hear each one speak a few
words. I want you to help me all you can, 
and let us be interested and do all the good
that lays within our power to do.
	Counselor Miss Ceelia Condie said: I am
pleased to meet with you again. I often
think of the instructions our late President
gave us, which we should try to remember
and profit by. Let us not indulge in
“novel” reading but rather read our own
Church books. I have neglected to read
good works as I should have done, but with
the help of the Lord I intemd to reform.
	Counselor Mrs. Mahalia Jenkins said:  If
we neglect our duty we are liable to grow
lukewarm and indifferent. I feel to sustain
our President and do all in my power to
assist her. I am satisfied that she will do
her best. Let us all try to speak; the Lord
has said of His servants, that if they stand
up and try to bear testimony, He will put
words into their mouths; and I think He
will do the same for us.
	Miss LoviniaHaigh made a short address.
	Miss Carrie Savill said she was pleased
with the meeting and would like very much
to become a member of the Society. Miss
Lizzie Edwards, Miss Hannah Jenkins; Miss
Sarah Jenkins, Miss Lucy Smith and Secre-
tary Mary A. Jenkins, each made a few 
remarks after Which, some new resolutions
wore read.
	President Miss Mary E. Bailey stated that
about the last request their President made
of them before her death, was to keep their
meetings, and what was said in them, per- 
fectly sacred; and Miss Bailey desired all
to remember it.
	Appointments were made for the next
meeting, and meeting was adjourned for
two weeks.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us," etc.
	Benediction by Counselor,  Mrs. Mahalia
Jenkins.
				——
	Tho following is from Cedar City, Iron 
County, Aug. 12th, 1873.
	On Thursday, the 26th of June we held our
annual meeting in the Social Hall. Meeting 
opened, by singing,“Come let us anew” etc.;
Prayer by Counselor Annabella Haight;
singing, “Arise O glorious Zion,' etc; Min-
utes of previous meeting read and accepted.
The reading by the Secretary of the yearly
financial report showed that there was a
little means still in the Treasury and that
the articles donated had been economically
disbursed. Remarks by President Mrs.
Rachel Whittaker in which she advised the
sisters to donate liberally of their means to
help gather the poor; mothers to set a good
example before their children, to teach
them to pray and send them to Sunday
School, and recommended family and secret
prayer. Several of the sisters expressed
their willingness to help to gather the poor.
Benediction by Mrs. Ann Elizabeth Webster.
				ELLEN LUNT, Secretary.
	Accompanying the above report was an
address composed by one of the sisters and
read at the supper table of a Surprise party
given to their President, Mrs. Rachel
Whittaker, in commemoration of he[-] 5th


Birthday, in which the warmest feelings of
love and confidence towards that lady, as a
worthy pattern, were expressed.

	Report from Centreville, August 15th,
1873. Our Relief Society was organized
June 21st 1869, and reorganized Feb. 12th
1876 with Mrs. Margaret H. Randall Presi-
dent, Mrs. Rebecca Porter and Mrs.
Emeline Smith Counselors, Mrs. Mariette
C. Adams Secretary and Miss Sarah L. Smith
Treasurer. As the place is small we don't
gather in as much as they do in larger
places, but the people have responded liber-
ally to the calls that have been made. The
President is ever willing and ready to
engage in any good work, and the sisters
that attend the meetings are united. We
feel that we have done some good in help-
ing the poor at home and abroad and hope
to do more in the years to come. A small
house with a piece of ground were donated
to us by Mrs. Margaret Cherry. By the
liberality of the brethren the house has been
enlarged and we have a comfortable place
in which to meet. The EXPONENT is a
welcome little messenger to us.
				M.C. ADAMS, Secretary.

	In Ogden on the 14th ult., a Relief Society
meeting was held, at which were present
Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs.
Margaret P. Young and Mrs. L. Greene
Richards, from Salt Lake City; and many
officers and members of societies belonging
to adjacent settlements, forming, in connec-
tion with the Ogden Society, a large congre-
gation. The meeting was held in the 
Tabernacle. President Franklin D. Rich-
ards and other Elders on the stand, also
President Mrs. J. S. Richards with her
Counselors and other officers, and the visi-
tors. The congregation was addressed by
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Elders P. Richard, F. D.
Richards and Bishop Thomas, the general
spirit of the teachings being for improve-
ment in all the ways of life. Miss Snow's
address will probably be given in full in
another issue of the EXPONENT.
	
	Minutes of the Sixty-Fourth meeting of
the Senior and Junior Co-operative Re-
trenchment Association, held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, August 16,
1873.
	Meeting opened with singing, "Joy to
the world;" Prayer by Counselor Mrs. E.
Howard: Singing, "An Angel from on
high."
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne remarked
that in looking over the congregation, she
thought how few were present in compari-
son with the number of ladies there were
in the city; considerable talking had been
done to the girls of late, but she thought
the mothers in Zion needed talking to quite
as much as their daughters; if mothers
would set their daughters worthy examples,
they would have all influence with them.
It seemed that the teachings were lost on
many, on account of their indifference, yet
it was the duty of each one who had received
knowledge of the truth, to use all the in-
fluence possible for the benefit of her
neighbor. The speaker referred to a meet-
ing she had lately attended at Ogden, in 
company with Sister Snow and others from
the city, and mentioned the number of young
ladies, one hundred and five, who belonged
to the Society of Sisters in Ogden. She
then gave the meeting into the hands of
the sisters, many of whom bore faithful
and interesting testimonies to the truth of
the Gospel.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow said she believed
[new column]
it right and incumbent upon the sisters to
read good books and get all the useful
knowledge they could in relation to the
cause of diseases and how to treat them; in
as much as the Lord had endowed them
with faculties, it was for them to cultivate
and use them; but their chief dependence
and reliance, they should ever keep in mind
was in the power and spirit of God, and
that He alone was able to strengthen and 
preserve the works of His hands. When
young people could be made to understand
the spirit of the Gospel, they had no more
need to be warned against the influence of
the spirit of the world, it was as uncongenial
to their feelings as to those of older people
who realized its follies. If young ladies
were wanted who could be depended upon,
the Retrenchment Associations were the
places in which to look for them. Speaking
of the importance of the present day, Miss
Snow said, "Let every woman who  has
light within her, warn her neighbor, for
this is a day of warning.”
	The congregation sang “We thank thee
O! God, for a prophet.” Other addresses
were made and meeting adjourned for two
weeks.
	Singing, “Praise God from whom all
blessings flow." Benediction by Counselor
Mrs: Z. D. Young.
		MISS M. A. JENKINS, Secretary.

	FOUNTAIN GREEN, SANPETE Co., Utah,
					August 14th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	DEAR SISTER:—It is somewhat a late
date to report to you.
	Our Society was organized on the 11th of
June, 1868, and has been in a prosperous
condition ever since. We have donated
liberally to the poor in our ward and have
made them as comfortable as our means
would allow. We have also donated to the
Temple at St. George. We own $50 in the
capital stock of Fountain Green Co-operative
Mercantile Institution, and have, in the
Treasurers hands about the same amount.
	We have no poor in our Ward that are in
need. The word "Female" was dropped
from our Society at a meeting held in Decem-
ber 1872 by a unanimous vote of the sisters.
We hold our meetings regularly every
month, and a good spirit has always pre-
vailed, and we hope ever will.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor and
we wish it much prosperity. Our President
is upheld by her Counselors, Teachers and
sisters in general. The health of the people
in these parts was never better than at the
present time.
	Yours in the good work,
		POLLY ANN JOHNSON, President.
		ELIZABETH F. Johnson, Secretary.

	A report is given from the 3rd Ward in this
city, of a meeting held August 20th, at which
Mrs. W. Margarett Steel and Mrs. Emma
Wagstaff from the 1st Ward, and Mrs.Sarah
wheeler from the Sugar House Ward were
present. Mrs. Wheeler spoke of the beauty
and comfort she found in her religion, it
was everything to her and her great desire
was to live it and have her family live
according to its perfect principles.
	Mrs. Steel wished the circulation and
influence of the EXPONENT to be increased,
as she felt it to be a means of doing much
good among the sisters.  She hoped the
3rd Ward all attended the General retrench-
ment meetings held in the 14th Ward, all
should go there and hear the good instruc-
tion which were given. President Mrs.
Weiler said she always very much enjoyed
going to the sisters’ meeting in the 14th
Ward, wanted to see the EXPONENT well
[new column]
patronized and sustained. The members of
the 3rd Ward Relief Society were trying to
be faithful and diligent in the performance
of their duties. She hoped they would all
speak their minds freely, that their visitors
might not go away disappointed. Mrs.
Wagstaff said she felt at home among her
sisters of the Third Ward; spoke of the
calamities which were sweeping the earth,
and of the necessity of instructing the young
in the ways of life and of their religion;
they should be taught great care in regard
to the company they kept. Addresses
followed by sisters Fanny Smith, M. Blythe,
E. A. Gleason, M. A. Angel, Z. G. Eardley,
E. P. Weiler, E. Haynes and Elizabeth
Gregory. One of the sisters said her time
was so much taken up with worldly cares that
she had no time to read or write, and hardly
knew when Sunday came; yet she desired
to live her religion and hoped she did not
do wrong. Secretary Mrs. Eardly asked if
it was right for the time to be wholy spent
in the cares of those things which pertain
to this life alone. She often felt grieved
that she had so little time to spend in read-
ing and studying to gain intelligence and
lay up treasures of which no one could rob
her. The young ladies, meetings and Sab-
bath Schools were referred to and all were
advised to encourage and help them. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks; dismissed
with singing, and prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Fanny Smith.
	MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, President.
	MRS. ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY Secretary.

	From the Secretary of the Relief Society
in Paradise, Cache County, we have
received the following: “Our Society was
organized four years ago; the President,
Sister Jennie James, is energetic in her
endeavors to do good. At out last meet-
ing she spoke upon the necessity of the
sisters seeking to improve their minds and
gain understanding; and also of their useing
the abilities with which the Lord has blessed
them, in assisting to carry on His work.
She urged them all to take and read the
EXPONENT, and to write also, and help to
bear testimony to the world, that the
women of the Latter-day Saints are “truly
free,” that they speak and act and write with
freedom, and are not restrained by any
other power than that of their own con-
science and their own feelings and desires.
	And now I wish to give a few of my views,
humbly and in sincerity; for I believe that
the Lord now requires of His daughters
that they, as well as the Elders, speak in
defense of the Truth which He has revealed,
through His wonderous mercies and match-
less grace. I have been a member of the
Church twenty-five years; I entered it for
the sake of the truth, which I love. I have
lived in plural marriage, ten years, and this
order I know for myself was revealed by
God as a portion of a great plan of redemp-
tion for a fallen world. I do think that
every woman who has received the light and
made covenants in the house of the Lord,
should seek, with all the wisdom wherewith
she is endowed, to aid in spreading the glad
tidings of peace and salvation abroad, and
in allaying and transubstantiating the preju-
dice which exists against the works of God
in the Latter-days. I, for one, shall deem
it a great privilege if I, in my simplicity,
can say or write any little word that may
comfort or encourage, or in any way bless a
sister, or a friend, for my whole desire is
to do good in some way.
	You, dear Editor, and a few others have
braved the storm—God bless you! And
may we, your sisters, have courage to step
	CONTINUED TO PAGE EIGHT.


(CONTINUED FROM PAGE THREE.)
forward and add our little offerings, remem-
bering that mountains are made by the 
unity of many mites, and that altogether, 
we may accomplish great and glorious
works; even such as the enemies of right-
eousness, the vain and ignorant will not
dare to scoff at.
	My thoughts have been awakened, while
my soul sickened with the news of a beloved
friend having strayed into darkness and
wandered away from the Truth! And I felt
that the sisters should be on their guard and
watch themselves closely, that they say
nothing and allow no thoughts to remain
with them which may grieve away the
good spirit. But they should converse and
write freely about those things which per-
tain to eternal life and happiness much more
than most of them do; and they should
strive to reason and reflect understandingly
of their own condition and the condition of
the world; and pray always, that they be not
led into temptation and drawn away from
the light. I hope that all my sisters may be
led to realize the great responsibilities which
rest upon them, and strive diligently to live
in a manner, becoming Saints of God, that
His Spirit may guide them into all truth
and righteousness.
	This is my first attempt at writing for
the press, but, however, it may not prove
my last, for I feel it is well for us to try to
build each other up, and thus by united
efforts to sustain the Priesthood.” 
					SINAH BISHOP.

			PLEASANT GROVE CITY,
						August 21, 1873.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   Knowing the desire and interest you have
for the welfare of the Relief Societies, I
take pleasure in sending you a few lines
from this place.
  At our legular monthly meeting, held on
the 9th inst., as usual the members of the
Society were “generally” present and a
lively interest was manifested in the good
work in which we are engaged. Our
Bishop met with us, and by request ad-
dressed the meeting at some length, en-
couraging the sisters in their efforts to do
good in relieving the wants of the needy,
etc. Although their contributions might
appear to be small they should not be dis-
couraged, large mountains were composed
of small particles, the widow’s mite was an
illustration that it was not the great amount
contributed, but the motive which prompted
the action, that would be regarded, and
according to this, all would be rewarded.
He also gave some excellent counsel in
relation to training children; said that
mothers have, as a rule, more influence
with children in their early years than any
other person.
  Several other persons spoke and bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Latter-day work,
and all seemed willing to do to the extent
of their ability to advance the interests of
the Society.
Financially our Society is in a healthy
condition; in addition to administering to
the wants of the poor here, we have assisted,
this season, one brother to emigrate from
Denmark, whose family came here last year.
  To-day we have a general working meet-
ing of the Society, which is well attended.
Knitting, Patch-work, etc is going on at a
lively rate, giving our large hall the ap-
pearance of a hive of working bees.
  Our President, with several of the sisters
is at Provo to-day, attending a meeting held
by our General President, Miss E. R. Snow.
Wishing the success of every good cause,
[new column]
including your valuable journal, I remain,
very respectfully your sister in the covenant
of peace, 
	MISS PAULINA E. BROWN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
  Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
  Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
   SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 1, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.
Several fires have been recently reported
in England......Carlton College, Michigan,
has received a donation of $100,000 from
Mrs. Susan Willis, of Charleston....In the Da-
nish West Indies, "reconciling" courts have 
been established, where opposing parties must 
appear and seek to reconcile their difficul-
ties before they are permitted to commence
a suit at law..... Tea merchants in England,
are being arrested, and paying fines for
selling adulterated teas.... The Sandwich
Islands social system is begining to look
rather dark to a writer in Hawaii, who
says the nation is given over to an early and
dishonorable grave.... Late advices charge
McLellan, the postal agent between Wash-
ington and New York with only $50,000
stolen and also say he has not been arrested
nor is likely to be......Indians and engines,
or Indian raids and railroad quarrels have
greatly assisted in keeping up the sensa-
tional interests of daily newspa-
pers for some months past, but seem to be
subsiding somewhat now....The Duke of
Brunswick willed all his land and personal
estate to the city of Geneva.....The Balti-
more "American" celebrated its one hun-
dredth anniversary last month.....The
"Sunday Morning News" is the title of a
new paper just commenced in Stockson,
California......A veteran of 1812 was lately
tripped up by a little pig in Georgia, the
injuries received by the fall causing his
death.....A school teacher in Vermont,
punishes bad boys by making one turn a
grindstone while another bears on it with a 
stick....Prussian troops are vacating France.
......The Shah is said to be so dainty about
his diet that nothing but certain kinds of
fish will do him......A sorrespondent de-
scribes French painting as it appears in the
art galleries of the Vienna Exposition,
as the most artistic of any......Love and 
politics are stated to be the chief causes of
insanity in Spain, where madness is fre-
quent, some of the female occupants of the
asylumhaving been brought there through
the bad effects of novel reading......Men
and women are said to be quite upon an
equality in Colorado, not only in their free-
dom of opinion but in associations and
vocations as well......Emily Faithful gives
occasional receptions at her residence in
Hyde Park, London...A miner in Pioche had a
rock fall upon him recently which weighed
about one thousand pounds, and twenty-
eight hours afterwards was alive and in
full possession of his senses, though the
spinal column was dislocated and the lower 
limbs paralyzed....A town on Kalmur Sound,
Sweden, called Christianople, has been
utterly destroyed by fire....The Massachu-
setts' Republican State Convention will be
held on the 17th inst., at Worcester....The
ship "Oregon," of Quebec, was lately wreck-
ed at Portland, Richie, in the Straits of
Belle Isle, with a valuable cargo.......Ken-
tucky black bees refuse to make honey.....
Sing Sing prisoners have found a means of
escape from the roof......Carpet worms are a 
new pest in New York, but the papers say
they are not so pety as the carpet bag-
gers......A removal of the Tombs is talked
of......Hartford is said to have more assur-
ance than any other city in the country.......
A number of Iowa men are going to "eat"
for the championship of the State, at Atlanta.
......Hack drivers in Milwaukee, have to pay
five dollars if they fail to light their lamps.
......San Jose papers publish appointments
for Senator Maclay's political speeches under
the head of "Amusements.".....In some
counties in California, the Democrats are
called Modocs, and in other, adjoining
[new column]
counties, the Independents are the Modocs.
......The editor of the Tular "Times" is
likely to get spanked by the editor of the
Mariposa "Gazette," at least the latter
threatens it, though they are about one
hundred miles apart.....The pleasantness
of the situation of Martinez, the county seat
of Contra Costa, is said to be almost unknown
to many residents of San Francisco, while
in natural advantages, the former is stated
to surpass all the towns on the eastern shore
of Suisun Bay, where it is situated....A new
kind of sea monster was lately caught in the
bay, near San Francisco, which has the
head of a shark and the body of a porpoise,
measures nine feet ten inches in length
and weighs five hundred pounds......Wit-
nesses in the Stokes' case are still confined
in prison, nor for any crime, but because
they happen to know something concerning
the shooting of Fisk......A San Francisco
editor considers the question of national
currency exceeds all others, and believes
the want of paper money to be the secret of
the depressed state of business throughout 
the country......Three women have been
arrested in Brooklyn, charged with the
murder of a man, of whom one of the
women is the widow....Hay seed in the
hair and blue drilling overalls, it is said,
will be the prevailing styles for Western
politicans this fall......Favorable prospects
for harvests in France are reported this
year......Lotta begins new scintillations in
Philadelphia this month.....The stock of lace
of the  Princess Josephine, cousin to the
ex-Queen of Spain, was lately seized by a
Paris milliner as security for an unpaid bill
of $1,059......The question is asked, when
Tweed is to be tried for his crimes, but the
answer is not given.


ANOTHER STEP.

	Believing, that if properly and intelligently
conducted, many benefits will certainly accrue
from the consummation of the given proposition
—benefits to woman and consequently to man—
and sincerely hopeing that wisdom and pru-
dence may direct every effort of those who may
engage in this worthy attempt to accomplish
great good, we cheerfully append the following
notice, of a proposed “Woman’s Congress,”
which explains itself:
“The necessity of fellowship and concerted
action among women interested in the ad-
vancement of the race and more especially of
their own sex, is so apparent, that we do not
hesitate to assert that by far the larger portion
of our efforts in that direction are fruitless, be-
cause they are solitary and isolated.
Thousands of noble and beneficent women,
scattered all over our country, are to-day think-
ing, writing and speaking the truths which all
women need, and many are waiting to hear,
and which would, at once, be a renovating
o[-]rce in the land, if the believers could, in a


congregated body unite upon practical methods
for their incorporation into government, busi-
ness and social life.
  Therefore in consideration of the present
demand for unity of method among women in-
terested in like objects, Sorosis, whose purpose
is “to render women helpful to each other and
'useful to society," has determined to take the
preliminary steps for bringing the representa-
tive women of the country together in a
Woman’s Congress, that unitedly we may take
into consideration the more important ques-
tions that affect our Woman's life.
  We send this little messenger to all women
who by voice or pen, or practical work, have
conquered an honorable place in any of the
leading reforms of the day, and we cordially
invite them to signify their approbation and
sympathy with our effort by sending us their
names to affix to the formal Call for a “Wo-
man’s Congress,” to be held in New York, in
October, 1873.
  This Messenger will also be sent to such
Women’s Associations as have for their object
the improvement of women in any direction.
  This Call will be issued as soon as we receive
sufficient number of worthy names to insure
the success of the Congress, and we shall not
issue it until we receive that encouragement.
  It is not the intention of Sorosis to take the
lead in the Congress, after it shall be assem-
bled; it will select its officers and govern its[-]lf.
We, meanwhile, constitute ourselves a local
Committee for the preliminary business. As
we, as an associate body, send out this little
sheet, we append to it the names of the officers
of the society, but we shall not affix to the
Call the names of any persons who have not
formally notified us of their willingness or
desire to have their names appear.
Friend! If after you have carefully read our
Messenger, you are willing to assist in calling
the good women of our country together for a
noble object, please send your name and post-
office address to our President or either of our
Secretaries.
MRS. CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR, President,
			151 East Fifty-first Street, N. Y.
MRS. JENNIE C. GROLY, Ex-Prsident,
MRS. MARY F. DAVIS, Vice-President,
MISS KATE HILLARD,  		"
REV. CELIA BURLEIGH, 		"
PROF. MARIA MITCHELL, 	"
MISS ALICE C. FLETCHER, Rec. Sec.,
		25 Stuyvesant Street, N. Y.
MISS FANNY HOWELL, Cor. Sec.,
		470 Vanderbilt Avenue, Brooklyn.
MISS ROMELIA L. CLAPP,
		Chairman of Executive Committee.
	Some of the questions to be considered by a
Woman’s Congress will be the following:
Higher Education for Woman; Woman’s
Work in Literature; The relation of Woman
to her Dress; Woman, the Promoter of Peace;
Prison Reform, Woman’s work; The Inviolate
Homestead; Equal Division of the Salary be-
tween Husband and Wife; Woman’s Influence
in promoting Temperance; Co-operative indus-
tries among Women; Woman’s place in
Government Systems of Philanthrophy; Law
as it affects Woman; Enlightened Motherhood;
Woman in Surgery and Medicine.”


HOME MANUFACTURE.

	Where is the individual, the family, com-
munity or nation who, being possessed of true
independence is not justly proud of it. And
in what does independence consist, so much as
in the home production of all articles necessary
for life's comforts and conveniences?
	No family that depends on buying the shoes
and stockings, hats, coats, jackets, aprons skirts
and so on, even to suspenders and garters, ready
made—for all its members from father down
to baby—ever knows anything of the real satis-
faction of being, in a measure, independent.
	A little girl never dons a pair of boughten
stockings with the same pleasure, or feels that
they are so perfectly comfortable, as the ones
she has knitted herself. While even the latter
are more satisfactory, if made of yarn spun at
home, from wool which her own dainty fingers
have assisted in preparing for the machine.
And if the recollection of having taken an
occasional run to look after the dear, old sheep
or pretty playful lambs from which the snowy


fleeces were clipped, happens to occur to her
mind some frosty winter's morning, these soft,
warm stockings appear to her to be "thrice
blessed." No far fetched gaiters ever seem
half so nice to her as do the little neat, white
"buck-skin" shoes, fastened with delicate pink
bows, made by the skillful hands of her own
patient, practical mother. This is personal
experience.
	None are so happily situated as those who
are able to manufacture for themselves, instead
of paying out money in order to hire others to
manufacture for them. This statement is no
less true of a nation or a kingdom, than of a
family or an individual.
	The community that chops its wood with
imported axes, churns its butter in imported
churns, clothes itself with materials brought
from other countries or other parts of a country,
imports its school books and its school teachers
or sends its children abroad to be educated; and
manages all its affairs in a similar manner,
can never thrive and become wealthy like the
one which develops its own resources, and is
able to export instead of being obliged to im-
port the common requisites which belong to
civilized life.
	Co-operation is the one great principle, and
the only one, upon which this saving system of
home manufacture can be profitably introduced
into a community. If tradesmen and trades-
women, engaged in all the various departments
of useful industry, could de induced to patron-
ize and sustain each other, as much as possible
in producing, and using home productions, a
beautiful order would thus be established, in
which home manufacture would produce home
independence.
	But so long as each one demands money of
every one, for his or her work, in order that all
may trade where they will, so long as laborers
refuse to sustain each other in their home in-
dustries, there will be little independence
realized, among the masses of the people.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


HOME AFFAIRS.

	We understand that a new daily paper has
been started at Beaver, entitled "The Beaver
Eenterprise."
	There has been considerable threatening of
heavy storms in this valley of late, but as yet
no results of a serious nature have occurred.
	The report of a ladies' meeting, held at
Provo during a late visit of President Miss E.
R. Snow to that city, has reached us, but too
late for insertion in this issue.
	Mrs. Belinda  M. Pratt, of Fillmore has
recently taken the superintendency of the
Relief Co-operative Store in that city, which
she writes us has fair prospects of doing a good
business.
	It is very gratifying to find that a number
of ladies are becoming interested in writing
for the Exponent. We hope to see their en-
deavors increased, and that others will be
encouraged to engage in like undertakings.
	Some of the Relief Society reports in our
present issue are particularly interesting. There
are a few hints in the one from Paradise,
which might be considered with profit by any
woman connected with the good cause of the
Latter-day work.
	Clear cool nights and mornings have char-
acterized the state of the atmosphere in this
valley for several days past. In some portions
of Cache valley, we learn that slight touches of
frost have been apparent during the last days
of the past month.
	A Party of Editorial Excursionists, from
different parts of the Union, lately visited this
city, and as considerable pains was taken by
the Board of Directors of the Deseret Agricul-
tural and Manufacturing Society, and others.
to make their short stay an agreeable one, we
hope it proved such, and that we may hear
some pleasant reports from it.
	Interesting accounts are given of the late
Cache Valley Conference held at Logan City,
by President Young and party. Large and
attentive congregations are reported to have
assembled, as usual on such occasions, from all
parts of the valley.
	This evening is the one for the Sunday
School Convention, being the first Monday in
the month. Teachers should bear it in mind, 
and be present, that they may keep up with
the growing interests of the Sabbath Schools
in this city, and acquaint themselves with the
progressive steps of the Sabbath School Union.
	Brother John Miller, who has delivered
the Exponent to a portion of the subscribers
in this city since its commecement is desirous
of withdrawing from the services thus rendered,
and wishes to notify any lady who would like
her paper delivered for one year, beginning
with the next issue, that he will receive pay
and be responsible for its safe delivery. He
does not propose to receive any further appli-
cations after the 15th, inst.
	Bishops, Post masters, Presidents of Re-
lief Societies and other prominent citizens in
different parts of the Territory, have been
speaking good words and accomplishing good
works for the Woman's Exponent. We ten-
der our grateful acknowledgments for these
efforts from the journal's many and kind
friends, trust they may be continued with as
much earnestness and sincerity in the future
and even greater success; and that the worthy
example may be followed by many others
	President Young, with a party of Elders
from this and neighboring towns, is now on a
tour through the northern settlements of the
Saints, visiting and holding meetings. Com-
munications from members of the company
state that he is in good health, and enjoying
his labors as usual. Their meetings were ap-
pointed for to-day, to be held at Bennington,
Bear Lake Valley; the company expect to re-
turn to their homes on Saturday, the 6th inst.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon, for some years the
editor of the "Deseret News," has retired from
the position on account of a great press of
other duties, and Elder David O. Calder as-
sumes that responsible situation. Both gen-
tlemen are well known in the community as
men of great intelligence and integrity, well
worthy the confidence and good wishes of the
people. We trust the "News," under the man-
agement of Elder Calder, may continue to in-
crease in usefulness, meeting in the direction
of its calling, the wants of the growing popula-
tion and the desires of its new editor.
	A school for ladies, who design studying
and becoming conversant with the science of 
obstetrics, will be opened in this city, in a few
days, by Mary H. Barker, M. D., whose card
appears in this issue of the Exponent. The
lady, we understand, is fully competent to give
a thorough classical course of that which she
undertakes to teach, and is prepared to open a
class as soon as books which have been sent for
arrive from the East. The class will be held
at her rooms, where she will be found by any
lady wishing to make arrangements with her
concerning the school, during her office hours,
which are designated in her card, also her place
of office.
	The Ogden "Junction" tells us about the
Bear River Valley Railroad, which it shows
will soon prove, in mor ways than one, a very
great benefit to the Territory, if the work on it
continues without hinderance, as projected.
It will run from Hilliard on the Union Pacific
Railroad, Southeasterly for twenty miles to
the head of Mill Creek, a tributary of the river.
And it is believed that through this medium,
the best of lumber can be furnished to the
markets cheaper than it can be imported, as
the line will run in easy distance to not less
than 25,000 acres of excellent timber. Other
important advantages are also stated as bear-
ing connection to this new railroad enterprise.


[For the Exponent.
			REASONING.

	I have been reasoning within my own
mind upon the subject of reading fiction, and
concluded that it is entirely wrong and
detrimental to our best interests. It often
seems a fine way to spend our leisure
moments, and entertain those around us.
But it, is not truth, therefore it must be
falsehood; and it appears that we love, and
if we don't make lies we tell them, and the
Scriptures say that whosoever loveth or
maketh a lie shall have their portion in the
lake that burneth with fire and brimstone.
I can now see that this practice is both fool-
ish and wicked, and am fully resolved that
however highly colored and fascinating the
fiction that comes in my way I will shun it
as I would the coils of a serpent which
would extinguish life. For novel reading,
if persisted in, will uproot our love of truth,
fill our minds with trash, leaving no room
for useful knowledge; useing up money and
our precious time, grieving the Holy Spirit,
and leading us down to death. How different
the opposite picture, if our thoughts are
filled with truth, theology, scientific litera-
ture and all the knowledge of God and
our relationship and duties to Him, that we
are His offspring; that He has given us
organizations in His own image, both phys-
ically and mentally, the right use of which
will exalt us in His presence to thrones,
principalities and powers—imparting all
true knowledge as circumstances may re-
quire.
	If we in our duty to Him do good to all;
if we feed the hungry, clothe the naked,
visit and administer to the wants of the
sick and afflicted, then we shall have our
reward. For the Savior will say as is re-
corded in His word "Come ye blessed of my
Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for
you before the foundation of the world."
For I was hungry and ye fed me, thirsty
and ye gave me drink, naked and ye clothed
me, sick and in prison and ye came unto
me. "In as much as ye have done it unto
one of the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me." Now, the Relief
Societies have done this to all the hungry
and destitute of this Territory that they
could search out, and they will have their
reward. And still there is room. We must
"work while the day lasts."
	The rules given by an ancient philosopher
to his pupils, I think are worthy of applica-
tion to ourselves.
	
	"Nor let soft slumber close your eyes,
	Before you've recollected twice
	Thy train of actions through the day,
	'Where have my feet chose, out their way.
	What have I learned wherer'e I've been,
	from all I've heard from all I've seen—
	What duties have I left undone,
	Or into what new follies run?'
	These self-enquiries are the road
	That leads to virtue and to God."
					Excellette.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

   TO THE MEMORY OF BROTHER JOSEPH W.
				 YOUNG

	He lives in the hearts of the people he loved,
		In the hearts of the orphan, and widow, yes; 
	In the hearts of the aged, the lonely, and poor--
		He lived but to comfort and bless.

	Oh Friend! in the days when friends were so few
		The day of thy rest, and glory has come;
	How “Blessed the dead who die in the Lo d,”
		And their labors do follow them home.

	Though the mantle of sorrow falls heavy and dark,
		And thy loved ones must mourn for their Head,
	God pity them! grant them that Spirit of thine, 
		That will sweeten the tears which they shed.

	For the good of the Kingdom his life has been given,
		'Twill be said, “though his body lies low,
	  In the battle of Truth against error he fell
	With his face toward heaven, his f et to the foe !"
	
	Oh true tender heart! farewell for awhile, 
		We all the dark Valley must tread.
	And the humble and true shall meet thee again
		Through the merits of Jesus our Head.
					Agness S, Armstrong.
Ephraim June 15th 1873


[For the Exponent.
		ASSERTION IS NOT PROOF.

	How tiresome it is to have a person con-
tinually thrusting his opinions into your
face, with all the assurance of an oracle,
without ever condescending to give a
reason. You cannot venture your modest
opinion on any subject whatever, without
coming in contact with one of these unsup-
ported, stonewall “surmises” which pertly
assume to be facts. You think the air feels
damp as if a shower was coming; but Mr.
Positive, with great assumption of superi-
ority informs you that “the atmosphere to-
day is dry as a bone.” You think the
use of tobacco injurious to the health–––
“Madam, it is the very best tonic known.”
	You think the free school system a great
blessing.—“Yes, to parents and teachers,
but perfect robbery of those who are
neither.”
	No amount of persuasion could elicit from
him an argument in support of his mighty
opinion, but he expects you to accept un-
questioningly his most absurd dogma as a
fact incontrovertible. And you meet these
plagues in every walk in life.
	Some gravely tell you on no account
to pet and fondle your children unless you
wish to ruin them; but not being able
to see where the harm is, you venture to
inquire how and why that would ruin your
darlings, “Oh I see you don’t believe it,
but you will when it may be too late,” and
that is all the information you can obtain.
	A physician tells you a certain kind of
poultice is good for that swelling on your arm,
but if you ask “How is it good, Doctor?”
you receive a cold stare and the reply “To
make it well;” and it requires real courage
to persist, “Now, Doctor, I must have a fair
answer; if that poultice is “good’ to scatter
this inflamation through my system again,
I do not want it; I want something to
bring it to a center and throw off this im-
purity while there is a chance.”
	You take an interest in the study of
Phrenology and are curtly told it is a perfect
waste of time. Being only in search of
instruction, you mildly inquire “why” and
are wonderfully enlightened by the lucid
“Because there’s not a word of truth or sound
sense in it.”
	You sympathize with the Woman’s
Rights movement and honestly believe that
the mothers of men and women have as
deep an interest in their present and future
welfare as the fathers, and, therefore, would
be if as well educated, quite as capable of
properly shaping their destinies. But you
learn with wonder and awe that “Woman
never was and never will be capable of un-
derstanding political economy nor of ac-
quiring a man’s education.” Having the
testimony of all sacred and profane history
that women have been chief rulers, high
priests, counselors, commanders and war-
riors, you suppose, in your innocence, that
you are to receive some new light on the
subject, but instead of that, your informant,
looks the picture of injured innocence, that
you ever imagine that statement needed
confirmation. Surely you do not doubt his
veracity?
	Now what “I” want to know is just this:
Am I obliged to swallow all these nauseous
doses of wisdom and call them, “good” for
me, or may I speak my mind, and say “If
you can give me a reason sufficient to con-
vince my judgement, then I will accept your
views, if not, I shall consider myself at
liberty to esteem my own opinion as highly
as yours?”
	If in order to be womanly and keep my
“sphere,” I must do the former, then let
spheres take care of themselves for I’ve no
use for them. I do not feel like “giving
proof" of woman’s inferiority by any such
compliant course. Every person, within
whose soul the least spark of reason exists,
has a right to cultivate that reason and give
it satisfaction before adopting any principle
or opinion; and because my head may be
weaker than yours and my judgment less
reliable, is no reason I should not cultivate
and improve them. And when you give
me your views on any given subject and
withhold the support of these views, you
defraud me of an opportunity to cultivate
my judgment and arrive at a just conclusion
for myself.
	You have no more right to force your
unsupported belief on my acceptance, than
Mahomet to spread his religion at the edge
of the sword. If I cannot see as you do
when you are right, that is my misfortune
and I deserve your pity. If you wish to
benefit me by your opinion, show me kindly
the foundation on which your confidence
rests, and then if I cannot see its beauty and
durability, let me alone until my own
experience and observation confirm your
teachings.
	Even the child, the little one of tender
years and immature faculties, has a right
to expect a reason for anything under the
sun which it is taught; and when one is
not given, the child has a perfect right
to reject the teaching.
	“In my opinion,” if this principle were
more generally acted on, a great amount of
existing bigotry and intolerance would be
swept away, and vastly more brotherly
love and charity possess the hearts of
humanity. 
						L. L. D.
BEAVER, Aug. 8th, 1873.


Phraseology.—A gentleman who had
just completed a tour through the wilds of
the West rode up to a house in Illinois,
around which were more improvements
than were common to the country. On in-
quiring of the owner if he would sell the
premises, he replied he would. “What do
you ask?” was the second interrogatory.
“I ax a good deal.”—“How much is that?”
“A right smart chance of money.” —“What
is a right smart chance of money ?” “A heap
more than I gin for it.”—“Well, sir, what
is your price, now, per acre?”—“I’ll allow
I don’t want to sell it.”


THE GREAT CONFLAGRATION.

	The following vivid description of the
late Oregon fire is from the "New North
West" of August 8th. 
	Portland lay asleep. All over the city
the Peace Angel hovered, and the dreams
of thousands as they slumbered in [--]ied
security, were unbroken by premonitions of
danger. But the incendiary did not sleep.
With his fiendish appetite whetted beyond
its ordinary wont, he prowled among the
sun-dried buildings wherein yet greater
combustibles were stored, and at the silent
hour of four, the hour when sleep is sound-
est and danger and suspicion of danger
is supposed to be at rest, he applied a torch
that laid a city low. Well did he lay his
foul purpose. Firemen, watchmen and
policemen were alike lost in the sweet lux-
ury of a morning knap. The prolonged
whistles of steamers at the docks for many
minutes seemed to only woo the dream god.
But at last a solitary fire bell rang out its
sharp alarm. Portland awoke—awoke and 
flocked to open windows, with drowsy eyes
and disheveled hair, with blanched cheek
and fluttering heart and gazed out upon
the great mountains of smoke, surmounted
by slender spires of lurid flame. Another,
and yet another fire bell rang. Men hurried
on their clothes and darted down the ere-
while deserted streets. Women, scarcely
taking time to clothe themselves, followed
at a little distance. Thousands gathered at
the scene of disaster and gazed and strug-
gled, till lot after lot and block after block
fell before the devouring element, driving
back, with the fierce tongues of fire that
possessed them, or the great billows of
smoke that they sent forth, the frantic
owners who fought for longer mastery in
vain.
	Women, with little children clinging to
their clothes, struggled along under all sorts
of burdens. Men, divested of all thought
of self, fought the arch fiend face to face,
saving property wherever they could.
Brothels emptied the low, vile, horrid life
with which they teem into the open streets,
and filled the air with curses. Ministers
stood upon the steps of costly churches
within a stone's throw of these awful dens,
and lifting up their hands and voices, be-
sought the God of elements to stay His
hand. Men, more practical, enshrouded
buildings in wet blankets and prayed with
hose and buckets, and, we trust, silently as
well. Other men, by dozens, became bru-
tally intoxicated, helplessly leaving their
wives and children to bear the burdens of
the day. Our noble firemen  came from Salem,
Oregon City and Vancouver, and chiefly by
the aid of these reinforcements was the con-
flagration headed off before it could destroy
the St. Charles Hotel, the only brick build-
ing that stood between the conflagration
and the almost entire remaining front. The
loss is computed at $1,185,325; insurance
$258,000. It is a greater calamity to the
Northwest than the Chicago fire was to the
central portion of the union, for it is a far
greater loss in proportion to the age of the
country, its wealth and population. But 
our people are again at work. Nothing
daunted, they will not say die. Already
preparations are being made to rebuild
many business houses. Relief committees
will see that the destitute do not suffer, and
though the years will pass away before Portland
recovers from her shock, she will rise from
her ashes, better built than before.


Lucca has been divorced.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RIGHT KIND OF A FARM HOME.

	[The following pleasant sketch of what a
farmer's home should be is from “Harper’s
Magazine” for February. Farmers as they
build homes will do well to pattern after the
picture first described:] Early in October,
Lance and Laura were married, and moved
into their new home. It was far from being
a fashionable or imposing residence, unless
we except Laura’s one extravagance—the
little bow-window; but it had an eminently
cozy, homelike air. The moment you step-
ped inside, you received a comfortable,
cheerful impression, as if here were a place
where people were in the habit of enjoying
themselves.
	Entering a little square hall--on one side
was the dining-room; on the other, the par-
lor; back of the parlor, the bed-room; the
furnace imparting a summer temperature,
the doors of their adjoining rooms all stood
open, giving good air, and a deal of roomi-
ness for so small a house. The parlor paper
was a green and gilt flower on a light drab
ground; the carpet an ingrain, small checks,
green the predominant color. Through the
bow-window the sun shone brightly in over
Laura's plants, making a summer within,
even if it were winter outside. Each side
of the bow-window, on little brackets, were
Parian busts—Eve and Psyche—wedding
presents, looked out from English ivy that
twined around them, and then met over the
hanging basket in the middle of the win-
dow.  On the walls hung two or three good
engravings and photographs; over them
clusters of bright autumn leaves. A set of
hanging book-shelves, bearing the united
library of Lance and Laura, presented an
odd combination of poetry and works on
Agriculture and "The Horse." Then there
was a lounge which "was" a lounge—not a
rack contrived to exasperate the human
frame to the utmost by its’ knobbiness—an
easy-chair a camp chair, a shaker rocking-
chair, one or two cane-seated chairs, a centre-
table with the big lamp, books, papers, and
Laura's work-basket.
	This was the family sitting-room. Look-
ing in of an evening, you would have seen
Lance on one side of the table in the big
easy-chair, reading his paper, or chatting
with Laura, sitting opposite in her shaker
rocker with  sewing. One great advan-
tage in marrying a farmer is, that you have
him at home with you evenings, provided
you make yourself tolerably aggreable to
him. Laura, even if she were married,
still thought it worth while to fashionably
arrange her hair, wear the bright bow, the
dainty collar, the little et cetras that really
add so much to woman's attractions. Lance
had too much respect for Laura and himself
too to sit down for the evening in his old
frock, tumbled hair, overalls tucked into
coarse boots, savoring strongly of the barn-
yard. He brushed his hair, donned an old
coat and slippers, and so, with a little trouble,
gaining vastly in comfort and his wife's
affections.
	From their windows the light of a happy
home streamed, cheerfully out, a benediction
to the passer-by. People were fond of drop-
ping in there for an evening, it was "so
pleasant," they said. Many a farmer's boy
and girl, after an evening at Lance's, went
home thinking farming wasn't so bad, after
all, and they wouldn't be in such a hurry to
grow old enough to leave for the city, if it
could be as pleasant at home. For fashion in
Knipsic Farms had generally ordained an
entirely different order of things from that
prevailing at Lance's. The parlor of every
respectable farmer must contain a very hard
and slippery hair-cloth, sofa, six chairs, and
a huge rocking-chair possessing the same
qualities in even a greater degree; other
furniture to correspond, arranged at stiff
angles around the walls. This sacred ap-
partment, as well as the whole part of the
house, was kept cold, dark, shut up, and
suggestive to the bold invader who dared
penetrate its dreary shades only of funer-
als. The family lived mostly in the kitchen,
sustained, probably, by the proud conscious-
ness of possessing a best parlor and hair-cloth
furniture. Passing by at night, you would
think the house uninhabited, did not a ray
of light from way back in the L reassure
you. Did company come unexpectedly, so
great a parade was made of building fires,
opening rooms, getting out the best things
that the unfortunate guest felt he should
never dare come again. So Lance and
Laura were unconsciously doing missionary
work that a farmer's home need not neces-
sarily be destitute of any desirable comfort
or refinement.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

ADVICE TO LADIES UPON COSTUME

	In no way has civilized man played more
fantastic tricks, and sacrificed his reason
more entirely to folly, than in the matter of
dress. The clumsy and inconvenient gar-
ments of the savage, are attributed to his
ignorance of domestic arts; but what can be
said in excuse for civilized man, when he
wears shoes that project half a yard beyond
his feet, or exchanges his own locks for
a periwig filled with powder and pomatum;
when the graceful motion of a lady’s head is
sacrificed to the stiff movements necessary
in balancing a tower of linen and wire,
half a yard high, with draperies that flow
from the top of it to the floor; when the
wavy lines of a female form are disguised
under a stff circle of whalebone, which im-
prisons the body from the hips upward, and
a buckram cage so surrounds the lower limbs,
that she can with difficulty walk or sit.
Some false standard of beauty, invented
perhaps to conceal some deformity, is set
up, and then the very bones and mucles of
the perfect body must be made to conform
to it. When this is carried so far as it is in
the case of small feet in China, its absurdity
strikes us at once; but we may find, nearer
home, instances of a standard as false, and
consequences even more fatal to health and
happiness than the little feet of the Chinese.
	The history of national costume in the
civilized countries of Europe shows, that for
many centuries the progress of art and
manufactures only led to greater extrava-
gance in dress, and more preposterous
fashions. One enormity was only displaced
to make way for the opposite extreme, as
in the case of the peaked-toed shoes already
mentioned; these were followed by shoes of
only the length of the foot, but as broad as
they were long. At one time men’s coats
were so short that they resembled boy’s
jackets of the present day, and soon after
they were so long and full that they looked
like female attire. Women's sleeves were
sometimes made so long that they were tied
in knots, to prevent the wearer from tread-
ing on them, and nine yards of cloth was a
moderate quantity for each sleeve; and then
they were made as tight as skin, and
reached no father than the elbow. It would
seem that for centuries the whole ingenuity
of a nation was taxed to invent monstrous
forms of clothing, as well as inconvenient
and useless appendages, and that comfort
and ease were the things most of all to be
avoided in dress.
	After the general fashion of hoops had
passed away, and when they were gazed
after, on gala days only, as a raree-show, it
was difficult to imagine rational beings
reconciled to them, and considering them
an indispensible part of female attire, or to
believe that they were once so universal in
London, that maid-servants were seen
washing down the door-steps in hoop--petti-
coats. Yet such was actually the case before
they were left off by the higher classes.
	This reflection upon past fashions should
make us look with jealous eyes on those
which prevail in our day, in order to dis-
cover whether we are not in the practice of
something which will appear equally absurd
to future generations. The French nation
has long been the arbiter of fashion for most
civilized countries and the political revolu-
tion of the last century was accompanied by
a revolution in dress almost as signal; for it
banished wigs and buckles, powder and
pomatum, stiff stays and full petticoats,
long waists, and high-heeled shoes. One
extreme led to another, and the ladies who
had been encased in whalebone, bukrum.
and abundance of quilted petticoats, stepped
forth as Grecian goddesses, without any
corsets, any petticoats, any fulness to their
garments, or any heels to their shoes.
White muslin dresses of the scantiest
dimensions, drawn closely round the figure,
with the shortest possible waists, and not a
fold or a plait that could form any drapery,
were the order of the day in France and
quickly spread into England. Only look
at the portraits in the historical pictures of
that period—such for instance, as the coro-
nation of Napoleon—and you will be so
shocked at the tight sleeves, short waists, and
narrow skirts of the women, that it will be
difficult to believe that such a style of dress
ever looked well.
	The influence of fashion is so strong in
corrupting the eye, and perverting the taste,
that it has led some persons to doubt the
existance of any true standard of beauty as
applicable to costume; but as long as some
forms of dress, when out of fashion, look
better to us than others, we may fairly con-
clude that there are some immutable princi-
ples of taste connected with the subject,
and that those articles which we admire,
after they have ceased to be the reigning
mode, conform in some degree to true taste.
Such for instance, is the simple cap called
after Mary Queen of Scots. When the pre-
vailing fashions are most opposed to the flat
shape of the Mary-Queen-of-Scots cap, it still
appears to us beautiful; and when adopted
by a modern fine lady, as her costume in a
portrait, or her dress at a masquerade ball, it
is pronounced to be highly becoming. Now,
this is not the case with the monstrous
constructions of gauze, ribbon, and wire,
that was called caps fifty years ago; nor with
any of those head-dresses, which outrage
common sense, and set all proportion at de-
fiance. As soon as the enormous horse-hair
cushions, over which the locks were combed
and plastered with powder and pomatum,
went out of fashion, that style of head-dress
was condemned as hideous.
	Now, if there are principles of true taste
involved in the mysteries of a lady’s toilet,
is not the study of them worthy of a refined
and intellectual being; and would not her
time and thoughts be better spent in con-
forming her style of dress to them, than in
eagerly following every change of fashion
dictated by the love of novelty, apart from
real beauty?—“English Paper.”

	Paint.—To get rid of the smell of oil
paint, plunge a handful of hay into a pail
full of water, and let it stand in the room
newly painted.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


HELP YOURSELF.

	Fight your own battles. Hoe your own
row. Ask no favors of any one, and you will
succeed five thousand times better than one
who is always beseching some one’s influ-
ence or patronage. No one will ever help as
you can help yourself, because no one can be
so heartily interested in your affairs. The
first step will not be such a long one, per-
haps; but carving your own way up the
mountain, you will make one lead to another,
and stand firm in that while you chop still
another out.
	Men who have made fortunes are not
those who have five thousand dollars given
them to start with, but boys who have
started fair with a well-earned dollar or
two. Men who have acquired fame have
never been thrust into popularity by puffs
begged or paid for; or given in friendly
spirit. They have outstretched their own
hands and have touched the public heart.
	Men who win love do their own wooing,
and I never knew a man fail so signally as
one who induced his affectionate grand-
mama to speak a good word for him.
Whether you work for fame, for love,
for money, or for anything else, work with
your hands and heart and brain. Say “I
will,” and some day you will conquer.
Never let any man have to say, “I have
dragged you up.” Too many friends some-
times hurt a man more than none at all.––
“Grace Greenwood."


DIVERSIONS.

	The Shortest Day.––The day before
that on which you have a bill becoming due,
which you are unable to meet.
	An American editor cautions his readers
against kissing short girls, because this habit
has made him round shouldered.
	“Jem, you’ve been drinking.”—“ No, I
haven’t; I’ve been looking at another man
drinking, and it was too much for me.”
	Slow Work— Making an auger hole with
a gimlet, eating soup with a fork, and run-
ning to fires on crutches.
	What are you writing such a big hand
for, Pat?” “Why, you see, my grand-
mother’s dafe, and I’m writing a loud letter
to her!
	To kiss a rosy-cheeked girl and find your
mouth filled with Venetian red, and the
girl grown suddenly pale, is truly awful.
	Refinement. — A servant-maid, in a
small town in Herefordshire, last week left
her situation in consequence of her being
incapable of "reconciling her feelings to the
very bad grammar spoken by her mistress.”
—Country Paper.
	Anecdote of Northcote.—One day Sir
W. Knighton called upon the veteran and
asked him, "What do you know of the
Prince Regent?" “Nothing," said North-
cote; "what should I?" “Why, he knows
you very well," said Knighton. “Who
says so?” "Himself” "Poo!” said
Northcote; “it is only his brag."
	Somewhere in the West, a sable knight
of the lather and brush was performing the
operation of shaving a hoosier with a dull
razor. “Stop!" said the hoosier, “that
won’t do.” "What’s the matta, boss?”
“That razor pulls.” “ Well, no matta for
dat, sah. If de handle of de razor don’t
break, de beard’s bound to cum off!”—
Pittsburg Mercury.


MARY H. BAKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 8 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS, 
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
  	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		jel5

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 81, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.

	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the TELEGRAPH WASHING MACHINE, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P.O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12X16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4	-	-	-	-		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1873	    No. 8.


EDITORIAL NOTES.	

	"Dolly Vardens" is the title of
political party that figured conspicuously
the recent California elections.
The Pope has been ill; once such a rumor
might have startled all Europe; now it
forms a brief paragraph for the newspapers.
Such is the change fine brings.
The British government on the 9th
Inst., through its agents Sir E. Thornton
and Mr. Archibald, paid the fifteen and
a half million dollars, awarded by the Gen-
eva arbitration tribunal to the United States
government.
Recently a man in Virginia City, 
Nevada, was fined $25 dollars for striking a
squaw in the face with an orange. We are
glad to see that even an Indian woman can
sometimes have justice done her. 
Trowsers with one leg is the latest
name given to the civilized feminine style
of dress. At least this is the appelation
used by the fair ladies of Persia to convey
their idea of a European lady's dresses.
Garrit Smith presented Susan B. An-
thony with some money towards paying the
fine imposed on her for practically testing
her right to a Constitutional vote; but in
our opinion spoiled the value of his gift by
depreciating fidelity to the Constitution.
Late Telegrams indicate that Peru is
determined to advance in education. Free
schools are established there, and the Peru-
vian Congres has passed a free school law
requiring citizens to school their children
or suffer the penalty of a heavy fine.
The Prince of Wales keeps at Marlbor-
ough House a mark-book in which is noted
the progress of his children in their studies
and their good deportment. One excellent 
plan that was practiced by his father, Prince
Albert, and one which other parents  might
try with good results. 
Severe injuries to a farmer and his
wife, the death of two of their children, a
horse killed and a wagon smashed to frag-
ments, were the results of the farmer's
trying to urge his team across the track just
before a coming train, near Galion, O.,
lately. The danger signal was given but
the engineer could not prevent the fearful
accident. A sad, and we trust a useful
warning to persons who, in their impatience
might attempt to run a similar risk.
A movement is reported [--] foot in St.
Paul, Minnesota, to lessen the social evil by
publishing in the city newspapers the names
of all who are known to visit houses of ill
fame. If the proposed plan be carried out
honestly it would be, we think, much more
likely to effect good results than the infa-
mous plan of licensing such places. And it
would be more likely to strike at the root
of the evil by holding up to public contempt
those who patronize and encourage prosti-
tution. 
Reports of seven fires in as many dif-
ferent places, not including the burning of
seven cars on an Eastern railroad, the loss
of twenty-five lives at Havana, where
parents threw their children from the bal-
conies to save them from the flames; and
the destruction of property loss by one fire
[new column]
not given, valued in the aggregate at
$800,212,00 was noted while glancing over
a morning newspaper; no particular issue
being selected. Is not the above significant
of the signs to appear in the last days?
The following may not be new to some
but we deem it too good to pass over:
M'me Bres has received the degree of
Doctor of Medicine, in France. Her certifi-
cate runs thus: M'me Bres, a married
woman and mother of two children, does
not study medicine as a pastime or by rea-
son of scientific vanity. She fulfils all the
duties of her profession. During both
sieges of Paris she never left the bedside o
our wounded soldiers.”   When woman,
to practical benevolence, courage and gentle-
ness, also adds the requisite knowledge
and skill, acquired by close application, she
may perform, deed that would grace an
angel of mercy."
One of our exchanges, “The Pioneer,”
actively San  Francisco weekly devoted to
the interests of woman has had an editorial
change; Mrs. E.P. Stevens after a five years
successful management retires from the edi-
torship, and Mrs. C. C. Calhoun assumes the
native duties of journalism with the follow-
ing line of conduct marked out, “viz; The
unflinching championship of Woman's Suf-
frage as it is understood before the world in
the right of woman to approach—and partic-
ipation in the privilege vouchsafed in the
imperishable Constitution of the United
States of North America—Only this and
nothing more, and this too, strictly and
“only within the law of the land we live
[--]
Persons should be very cautious about
trying to get on railway cars when in
motion, for even those constantly employed
about a train and who are supposed to be
familiar with its every movement are not
always safe. Several serious accidents in
this Territory have occurred through at-
tempting to get on or off the cars when in
motion, of which we are reminded when
reading a telegraphic account of a terrible
accident that occurred on the Lake Shore &
M. S. R. R. A young man employed as
brakesman jumped on a car which was
moving towards him, but his foot slipping,
was caught in the machinery and notwith-
standing his struggles to save himself he
was fearfully mangled, and death soon came
to relieve him of his sufferings. 
When people are about to build, though 
their means may be limited, they should
consider the probabilities and wants of in- 
door life; and while aiming to adapt their
dwellings as far as they can, to secure
ventillation, roominess and convenience,they
should also remember that the bed-room is
not or should not be the least important part
of the house; that a small back room will not
do as well as any place, while the front, best
and, perchance, the largest room is reserved
for occasional use when entertaining visit-
ors. When people take a proper amount of
sleep they spend on an average, nearly a
third of their lives in bed, and when sick
or perhaps suffering from an accident which
confines them indoors and most likely to
their chambers. they need all the invigorat-
ing influences that nature supplies in the
[new column]
form of fresh air, sunshine and pleasant
prospects. For these reasons, a southern or
eastern aspect should be preferred; the ceil-
ing should be high, and the mode of
ventilation as convenient and ample as is
possble; while the windows should be high
and free enough from drapery to admit
plenty of light and the carpets and furniture
not so good that the sunshine will be ex-
cluded for fear of spoiling them. Light is
a far greater curative agent than many
suppose. It is asserted that Sir James
Wylie, late physician to the Emperor of
Russia, having attentively studied the effect
of light as a curative agent, in the Hospital
of St. Petersburg, discovered  that the
number of patients who were cured in rooms
properly lighted was four times those con-
fined in dark rooms.  This led to a complete
reform in lighting the hospitals of Russia,
and with the most beneficial results." Who
is there that having suffered with protracted
illness does not know the pleasure with
which the weary sufferer longs for, and
hails the coming dawn. Then let the sun-
shine in and with it more health and happi-
ness.


MORE THAN twenty years ago, the "New
York Gazette" published the following
argument, used by a canal stockholder, in
opposition to railways, which might now
be considered to have had a touch of the
"prophetic," in the main, though humorous
in style: "He saw what would be the
effect of it; that it would set the whole
world a gadding. Twenty miles an hour,
sir! Why, you will not be able to keep an
apprentice boy at his work; every Saturday
evening he must take a trip to Ohio to
spend the Sabbath with his sweetheart.
Grave plodding citizens will be flying about
like comets. All local attachments must
be at an end. It will encourage flightiness
of intellect. Veracious people will turn
into the most miserable liars; all their
conceptions will be exaggerated by their
magnificent notions of distances. 'Only a
hundred miles off! Tut, nonsense, I'll step
across, madam. and bring your fan!'—'Pray,
sir, will you dine at my little box at Alleg-
hanny?'—'Why, indeed, I don't know; I
shall be in town until twelve. Well I shall
be there, but you must let me off in time
for the theatre.' And then, sir, there will
be barrels of pork, and cargoes of flour and
chaldrons of coals, and even lead and
whisky, and such other like things, that
have been used to sober traveling, whisking
away like a set of sky rockets. It will upset
all the gravity of the nation. If two gentle-
men have an affair of honor, they have only
to steal off to the Rocky Mountains, and
there no jurisdiction can touch them. And
then, sir, think of flying for debt. A set
of baliffs mounted on bomb-shells would
not overtake an absconded debtor, only
give him a fair start. Upon the whole, sir,
it is a pestilential, topsy-turvy, harum-
scarum whirligig. Give me the old, solemn
straight-forward, regular Dutch canal—three
miles an hour for expresses, and two for jog
and trot journeys—with a yoke of oxen for a
heavy load. I go for beasts of burden; it is
more primitive and scriptural, and suits a
moral and religious people better. None of
your hop-skip-and-jump whims now for me."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE WORLD OF LOVE.

It is sweet as we journey through life.
	So darkened by sorrow and sin,
So full of unbrotherly strife,
	So far from the goal we would win—

To know that a bright world of love
	Surrounds us in every land;
To know that the angels above
	Rejoice to be ever at hand

	To "lift up the lap of the dark
	And speak clearer" of that which they know;
To kindle the heavenly spark
	Which brighter and purer shall glow:

To comfort, to counsel, to warn,
	To lighten the burden of care;
To point to a happier morn,
	To banish the gloom of despair:

To give bread to the famishing soul.
	And freedom to those that are bound;
And still as the ages unroll
	Spread "more light" to the nations around:

To speak of our Father in Heaven,
	To speak of our brothers on earth,
Of the penitent sinner forgiven,
	Of death as the spirit's new birth

In a world more divinely fair
	Than foot of man ever has trod;
No sorrow, nor trouble, nor care.
	In that glorious city of God.

O, 'tis sweet to hold converse with those
	Who have gone to the world of the blest,
Where the tree of life evermore grows,
	And the soul that is weary may rest!
							Selected,


R.S. REPORTS.
	Minutes of the 14th and 16th meetings,
held by the young ladies of the 10th Ward
have been handed in, from the first of which
we select for the present issue, the following
items: Reading from the "Juvenile In-
structor," History of the Church, by Miss
Lizzie Edmunds. Miss Nettie Poll read a
poem from the Exponent, entitled 'Don't
Let Mother do it!" An original essay was
read by Miss Martha M. H. Paul. Presi-
dent Mrs. M. J. Pierce remarked that she
was pleased with the reading exercises,
especially 'Don't let mother do it!' 'Girls,'
she said, 'take heed to what is contained in
those few lines, and don't let mother work
so hard; help her all you can, and strive to
be her greatest comfort. You may not
know what trouble she has passed through
and how much she needs a comforter. And
who can be a greater comfort to a mother,
than a good, affectionate daughter? I have
heard girls say to their mothers, 'I don't
want to do this, it will soil my hands.' How
wrong and foolish! Mother has soiled her
hands many times for us all, and we can
never repay her for what she has done for
us. Instead of going out so often as some
of us do, let us stay at home and help
mother, and we will be blest.' Mrs. Ann
D. McAllister warned the young girls who
had to go out at service, against going to
fashionable hotels to work. It was no dis-
grace to work for a living but girls should
be cautious where and by whom they were
employed in these days. Mrs. A. M.
Pierce spoke of the the great necessity there
was for prayer and watchfulness. Miss A.
Graham felt that great good would result
from the little meetings which were held
by the young ladies; they were thus prepar-
ing themselves for future usefulness. Miss
Lizzie Edmunds knew that it was the Spirit
of God that brought them together with 
such happy hearts, and hoped they would
cultivate that spirit and that it might con-
tinue with them. Miss Charlottie Hile-
stead believed that, if they were united in
their efforts they would continue to improve
[new column]
and that the Lord would sanction and bless
their efforts. Mrs. H. Tout and Mrs. A.
Wilcox made appropriate remarks.
	Miss M. A. Jenkins forwarded a report of
the 23rd meeting of the Young Ladies'
Association of the 4th Ward. The meeting
was opened with singing and prayer;
catechism was recited by the members
present, and the meeting was addressed by
President Miss M. E. Bailey, Counselors
Mrs. Mahalia Jenkins and Mrs. M. A. Care-
less, Miss M. Jones and Miss L. Hague.
Original and selected articles were read and
meeting adjourned for two weeks.
		Provo City, August 21st, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	Yesterday, according to appointment,
Sister Eliza R. Snow, on a visit to the
sisters of this city addressed a large and 
attentive audience of the members of the
Relief Societies at the Meeting House.
Sister Holden, of the 4th Ward, called the
meeting to order, after singing by the
choir prayer was offered by Elder J.P.R.
Johnson. The choir sang "Oh my Father
thou that dwellest." Sister M. T. Smoot
then introduced the speaker to the audience,
who, after expressing her pleasure at meet-
ing so many of her sisters, and her thank-
fulness to God for his protecting care during
her Eastern tour, gave an interesting account
of her travels. In her remarks, the speaker
referred to the principle of plural marriage,
urging mothers to teach it to their daughters;
alluded to the instructions of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, that the Relief Societies
were empowered to create any officers that
were deemed necessary for the well being
of their organizations. Therefore it was
moved and seconded that Sister Margaret
T. Smoot be sustained as President of the
four Presidents of Provo City Relief Socie-
ties, which was unanimous by the vote of
sisters present.
	At the close of Sister Snow's remarks,
Sister Elizabeth Howard, of Salt Lake Co.,
read the following

			ACROSTIO
	Addressed to our beloved Sister
			Eliza R. Snow
On her first visit to Provo City after returning from
			Jerusalem.

	Each faithful Saint, without a doubt,
	Love's courtesies would fain extend,
	In fact, although we may not shout,	Zion would welcome Zion's friend.
	As such no sister that we know,
	Ranks higher than dear Sister Snow.
	Sincerely then, we wish her joy,
	Nor, only wish but would employ.
	Our means, or ought, that joy imparts,
	Within our pow'r with all our hearts.
						Henry Maiben
			On behalf of the ladies of Provo City.
After which the choir sang "Sweet bye
and bye" with chorus, which was most
beautifully and effectively rendered.
	Benediction by Elder J. P. R. Johnson.
	Minutes of the 65th meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, held August 30th, at the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt Lake City.
Meeting opened by singing, "Arise O
glorious Zion." Prayer by Mrs. What-
mough. Singing, "May we who know the
joyful sound." The Secretary being absent
Miss Hattie Woolly was appointed to act in
her place.
	Minutes of the last meeting were read
and accepted. Also minutes of the 10th
Ward Junior Association. President Mrs.
M. I. Horne observed; that it is gratifying
and interesting to hear the minutes of our
young ladies' meetings. They show, to us
that our efforts, made under the direction
of President Young, have not been lost. I
[new column]
was particularly impressed with the second
hymn which contained a line taken from
the words of the Savior, "Be ye not hearers
of the word alone but doers of it also." It
is by "doing" the things which we are com-
manded that we shall gain blessings. It
appears to me that the people are losing sight
of the object for which they came here, and
that the spirit of the world has taken
possession of them. Our religion is prac-
tical, and unless we obey the principles
contained therein we will not be able to
endure and overcome the  trials which we
must pass through in order to obtain celes-
tial glory. The Lord says, "He chasteneth
every son and daughter he receiveth." We
must not forget that our covenants are just
as binding upon us at the present time, as
they were when we first embraced the gos-
pel. Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said; I
will give a brief account of my visit south.
Mrs. Howard and myself have been visiting
the various Relief Societies of some of the
southern settlements. We had large and
attentive audiences composed of both ladies
and gentlemen. The first meeting we
attended was held last Thursday in Provo.
On Friday we met with the brethren and
sisters of Payson, the former requesting the
privilege of attending, and I really think
the brethren need quite as much instruction
in regard to the design of the Relief Socie-
ties as the sisters. Saturday and Sunday,
attended a general two-days meeting at
Salem. The following day we met the
brethren and sisters at a meeting held in
the Bowery of that place; Tuesday held
meeting at Springville; Wednesday met
with their President and Board at Bishop
Smoot's residence and spent the afternoon
in an organized meeting. Thursday we
visited the Relief Society at Pleasant Grove;
and on Friday attended meeting at Ameri-
can Fork. In all those places I spoke of
our young ladies' organizations and of their
success. I told them the minutes of their
meetings were instructive to the old as well
as to the young, and that in associating to-
gether they have obtained the Spirit of God
which enables them to understand as we do.
I urged the necessity of our young men be-
ing organized. The Bishops seemed to see
that it was necessary tha something should
be done towards their improvement. The
young women of Payson have an organiza-
tion and while there we appointed a good
motherly lady Superintendent to whom the
young ladies could refer for counsel. In
other places they seemed to realize the im-
portance of something being done to save
those born in Zion. I, like Sister Horne,
do not believe in enthusiasm but believe
in being wide awake Saints. I remarked
in Springville that I liked whole hearted
Saints—those who could forget their selfish
interests and seek only for the advancement
of the Kingdom of God. Would we but
look upon things as they truly exist we
should find there should be but one mutual,
general interest. In a city of twenty thou-
sand inhabitants, the majority of whom
profess to be Latter-day Saints this room
should be filled to overflowing. This organiza-
tion, in connection with the Relief Societies,
is one of the aids in assisting the Kingdom
of God to attain unto perfection, and it is a
shame that these meetings are not more
appreciated by the sisters.
	The sisters of the various Wards have
accomplished much but not one tenth of
of their duties has yet been performed.
These Societies in their organization, are
designed to elevate and purify women; to
make our drughters ornaments in Zion, in-
stead of being the trifling, good-for-nothing
specimens of human life that, in too many
instances we see in our midst; to look after


the poor and administer to their wants,
which is an angelic service, is only a tith-
ing of what should be the result of these
organizations. If the people understood
this subject as Joseph Smith did, the moral
character of every woman, who is not a
member of a R. Society would be questioned.
It is the privilege of woman to give charac-
ter to society, and she does do it. As sure
as the sisters arise and take hold of the
work, the brethren will wake up, because
they must be at the head, and instead of
devoting their attention to the gaining of
temporal wealth which is perishable, they
will seek first the Kingdom of God, and let
the Lord add his blessings which he has
promised. Counselor Zina D. Young said:
dear sisters we have been truly blessed 
this afternoon in hearing the words of life
and salvation; they are just as binding upon
us as though they had  been given by pro-
phets. Were it not for tradition many
would hail the sound of the Gospel as a
priceless boon. Woman has much to do;
how active we should be in seeking to carry
out the work which is before us. I feel
grateful to God that our lot is cast in this
land and in this time. We should consider
ourselves blessed above all other women in
the world. Mrs. Howard and Mrs. Pixton
made interesting remarks after which
Counselor Mrs. Woodruff said: I feel like
expressing my satisfaction with the remarks
we have heard. We enjoy many priveleges,
and I would that we could more fully appre-
ciate them. For one I am thankful to be
permitted to have a name among this people,
who are or should be a light to the world.
Counselor Mrs. S. Kimball remarked that;
I am pleased with the privilege of adding my
testimony to what has been said. If I may
select any subject which has been more in-
teresting to me than another it is that
touching upon the necessity of understand-
ing the organization of the Relief Societies.
I know of no Ward that properly sustains
them and if there is a remedy I don't know
where to find it. I have thought the sisters
were benefitted by meeting together and
interchanging ideas. Sister Horne once
suggested that we send missionaries to the
different Wards. Mrs. Mary. R. Thompson
observed, that she had always felt a deep
interest in the Relief Societies and was
pleased to hear so good a report from the
southern settlements. Mrs. Whatmough
spoke of the interest she had felt for the
daughters of Zion. The young ladies of the
19th Ward were once organized into a Re-
trenchment Society, but their President had
now left the city and for some time past
their meetings had been discontinued. She
felt very anxious to have them reorganized,
being willing to open her house for them to
hold meetings in, supplying lights and fire
during the winter. Counselor E. R. Snow
said: My sisters, here is an opening to do
a work of salvation. We all desire to do
good, but we have got to take some tangi-
ble points. It is good to fast and pray but
we must combine some particular acts with
our faith. In our efforts to produce a reform
among the young we met the greatest
opposition from those who should have been
saviors on Mount Zion. Let every mother
encourage the movement spoken of by Mrs. Wat-
mough. Our young people know nothing of the
power of the Gospel. In the early days of the
Church, children as well as parents possessed the
Spirit of God. Let every sister realize that she
is called to be a savior on Mount Zion, and en-
gaged in the work of salvation which is needed in
our midst every day. It does not do to only think,
feel, and talk but we have got to succeed in our
aims, and so sure as the young ladies become
Saints, the young men will exert themselves to be-
come Saints. I am thankful that we have one
organization of young men in our city. After short
and very interesting remarks from others...the
meeting adjourned for two weeks, after singing,
"Wake O wake the world from sleeping," and
benediction by Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Take things quietly, friends! and you
will thereby protect yourselves, and those
around you, from much unnecessary trouble.
Doubtless, there are many things in the
world calculated to try our temper, to per-
plex and torment us; but taking them
quietly is the best way of lessening their
power. If a man, carrying a basket of eggs
on his head, meets with an accident, where-
by the basket is overturned, and the eggs
are broken, will the stamping and storming,
his tearing and swearing, lessen his misfor-
tune, or recover one of his broken eggs?
Surely not; then, how vain is the indulgence
of his frenzy, and how much wiser would it
be to take things quietly! There are some
persons who can hardly live on earth unless
they are bouncing and bursting about like
so many squibs and crackers, and who, one
might imagine, would hardly think heaven
itself worth having, unless they went there
in a sky-rocket! Avoid such people as you
would a bomb-shell. What is the use of
going through the world like a volcano,
raging and roaring, spitting and spouting
fire in every direction, annoying others
and spending ourselves to no purpose?
	We have heard of the philosopher who
on observing a man frantic with grief, tear-
ing the hair from his head, exclaimed to
those around, "Doeth this man think that
baldness is a remedy for grief?" There was
much wisdom in the remark. If, by giving
way to passion or ungovernable grief, we
could thereby remove or lessen our afflic-
tions, there would be some sense in our
raving; but if, on the contrary, it invariably
increased our distress, why then, friends:
you will agree with us that it is much better
to take things quietly. By calmness and
self-possession our energies are rendered
doubly effective; and a man with an unruf-
fled spirit does that easily which under the
influence of passion he could not perform at
all.—"Miscellany."
	Seasoning Glass.—Place the glass in a
vessel of cold water and heat the water
gradually until it boils. Glasses of every
description thus prepared, it is said will
afterwards bear boiling water poured on
them without injury.
	Lemon Dumplings.—Mince four ounces
of suet, and mix it with the same quantity
of moist sugar, half a pound of bread-crumbs,
and the juice and peel of a lemon cut small.
Put them into tea cups and boil them three
quarters of an hour.
	Cleaning Stoves.—Stove luster, when
mixed with turpentine and applied in the
usual manner, is blacker, more glossy and
more durable than when mixed with any
other liquid. The turpentine prevents rust,
and when put on an old rusty stove will
make it look as good as new.
	Lemon Pie.—One tablespoonful of corn
starch, wet with a little cold water, stirred
into a cup of boiling water; pour it, boiling;
on a cup of sugar and a tablespoonful of
butter. After it cools, add the juice and
rind of one lemon and one beaten egg.
Bake with a upper  and lower crust.
	Keeping Honey.—To keep honey all the
year round, let it run through a fine sieve
to separate from particles of wax; then boil
t gently in an earthen vessel, skim off
the foam which gathers on the top, and
cool it in jars. After covering tightly set
them away in a cool cellar.
	Dr. S. S. Blookgett, ot Ogdenburgh, N.
Y., writing to the "Dental Cosmos," once
condemned the use of fine charcoal as a
tooth powder. He asserts that it is as
sharp as diamond dust, and soon wears off
the enamel. He says: "The great Denti-
frice that should be used at all times, and
under all circumstances, is soap. Its alka-
line properties serve to neutralize the acids
contained in the fluids of the mouth, and its
cleansing properties will correct the breath
and remove offensive odor sooner than any
article I have seen tried."
	Corn Soup.—Eight large ears, cut off the
grains and scrape the cobs. Cover this with
water (not too much) and boil until perfectly
done. Now add two quarts of milk, let it
come to a boil; stir in two tablespoonfuls of
butter rolled in a tablespoonful of flour, let
the whole boil a few minutes; have ready
the yolks of three eggs well beaten; pour the 
soup on them, stirring hard all the time.
Serve immediately after seasoning to taste.
	Plain Cake.—One cup of sugar, one
of cream, one egg, two and one half cups of
flour, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt.
Any spice you like.
	Sugar Bread.—Three pounds of sugar,
one and one half of butter, six pounds of
flour, eight eggs, one ounce and three
coppers' weight of baking powder, and one
pint of sour milk. Mix not too stiff, and
bake in a moderate heat.
	Measure Cake.—Six cups of sifted
flour, four of powdered sugar, one cup of
sour cream, one cup of butter and five eggs.
Cream half the flour with the butter, the
other half sift into the eggs and sugar after
they have been well beaten together. Mix
well, and just before baking add the cream,
with one teaspoonful of soda and the juice
of one lemon. Bake quickly.


A FELLOW having been "sworn to the truth"
of a statement he had made, afterwards
confessed that the major part of it was false.
"Did you swear to the truth of it?" he was 
asked. "Yes," he replied, "but I did not
swear to the falsehood of it, and part of it 
was truth."


Scientific Pun. — A gentleman was 
showing a friend a balloon of ox bladder in-
flated with oxygen. "But," observed the 
friend, "if the oxygen should escape, how
can you get it into the bladder again?"
"That is not the difficulty," quoth a by-
stander, "it is not how to get the oxygen
into the bladder again, but how to get the
bladder into the ox again!"


ALMOND custards are thus made: Blanched
sweet almonds, four ounces; beat them to a
smooth paste in a mortar, and add it to one
pint of thick cream, with the yolks of four
eggs, two or three spoonfuls of rose water,
and two drops each of essential oil of al-
monds and essence of lemon. Stir the whole
over a slow fire, until of a proper consis-
tence, then pour it into cups. Some use
milk instead of cream, and two eggs in
addition to the above.


TEN parts of tin, combined with one hun-
dred of copper, form bronze, is the usual
composition for statues. Common bell-
mettle is composed of three parts of copper
and one of tin. For very small bells, a
small portion of zinc improves the tone.
Speculum metal for telescopes is composed
of equal parts of tin and copper.  It is very
white, very hard and close in grain, and
eceives an exquisite polish.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street, 
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to 
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.


SPLINTERS.

	It is estimated that there are 125,000 wo-
men in New York City who earn their living.
.....The weekly wages of female teachers in
Maine is said to be but $3:50. How do
they live?..........There were one hundred
and forty-two babies born in San Francisco
on the 2nd inst..........The "Tulare Times"
describes a wild man seen in the range of
the Sierras, as of being of gigantic stature,
a white man who goes entirely without
clothes and is covered all over with long
black hair. The Indians think it is the
devil or ghost of some wicked dead man......
A little girl in St. Louis lately obtained
access to a bottle of corrosive sublimate
which she drank and died......A Missouri
colored man, named Messenger, being in-
toxicated, a few evenings ago, shot another
colored man, killing him instantly......The
colored people of Ohio want more extensive
political recognition, and are considering
how best to secure it.....Kildare, Ireland,
has had a little disturbance from English
rifles......Mr. Allsop, the son of the cele-
brated brewer, has made a successful run
for the Parliamentary seat for East Stafford-
shire, England......The Count de Chambord 
says France is weary of agitation, and would
be saved and rise from her ruins stronger
and greater than ever, if the real conditions
of safety were rightly understood......The 
Soliders' Orphans Home, of York State, has
a semi-annual appropriation of $2,500......
The hog cholera has made some farmers in
Springfield, Illinois, poorer by several hun-
dred dollars in a few days time this season.
......An English newspaper, established in
1723, recently celebrated its 150th birth-day
by republishing a fac-simile of its first issue.
......The late rain storms in Pioche have
caused much interruption to travel and ren-
der important repairs constantly necessary.
..........A late sensational snake story is of a
reptile 4 inches long, of a greenish color,
which was found in an egg at South Bend.
......An innocent father in Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, carries love notes to and from a clerk
in his office for his daughter, whose com-
pany has been forbidden to the young man;
the funniest part of the joke being that the
father knows nothing of the correspondence,
while the news papers have found it out......
Four miners were occupying a cabin in
Pioche, which was struck by lightning; one
of the men was lamed in both legs; another
had one leg paralized and was struck deaf.
......An Alabama man captured and caged
an owl which its mate came nightly to feed
until it was also captured..A little boy in one
of the Southern settlements was chasing a
rabbit when it entered a hole in the earth,
into which the boy thrust his arm and
brought out a large rattle snake......Prince
Napoleon has been in Corsica and has taken
part in the deliberations of the Council
General of Ajacio......William M. Meredith,
one of Pennsylvania's most eminent lawyers,
recently died aged seventy-seven years......
Clemont County, Ohio, has a man living
who is one hundred and ten years old,
named Elijah Newton......The constables
lately got after Rev. W. H. H. Murray in
the Adirondacks, for killing deer, contrary
to the game laws of the State of New York.
.......A residence in the neighborhood of
Sandfordville was lately robbed and two
Poughkeepsie editors, who had gone there
for a breath of fresh air, were put under
surveillance as burglars......A druggist who
served in the army of Napoleon I, named
Elias Durand, recently died in Philadelphia.
......New York imported 142,877 barrels of
pork, 145,465,447 pounds of lard, 275,306,-
308 pounds of ham, between the 1st of
November, 1872, and the 15th of August,
1873......Virginia exhibits considerable ex-
citement over her "Black Man[-]s Party,"
who are trying hard to over-rule the whites."
A train on an Ohio railroad recently ran
over a farmer's wagon which contained
himself, his wife and two daughters; the
children were killed on the spot and the
mother died from the injuries received......
Terrible storms and lightning are prevalent
this year......A wet winter is predicted by
California conjurers........The Mason and
Hamblin organs got the "First Medal" at
the Vienna Exposition..........The "Daily
Graphic" suggests that "Judges sent to Utah
should first pass a competitive examination
in morals" preferring one who denounces
polygamy but practices bigamy.........The
Grand Central Hotel, in Omaha, is now
called the Pullman House in honor of Mr.
G. M. Pullman, of Palace car fame......
Twelve men were killed in Lincoln mine,
Sutler Creek, California on the 5th inst........
Portland is excited about the increase of
small-pox......Pioche is not as safe as it was
for villains since the late trials and convic-
tion of some of them......The dining table
of the Emperor of Russia is so arranged
that at the touch of a signal like the rubbing
of Aladdin's lamp, down goes the table
through the floor and a new table, loaded
with fresh dishes and viands, rises in its
place......It is estimated that the extent of
new railways built in this country in 1873
will be more than forty per cent. less than
for 1872......A national convention of the
different Italian societies assembled at St.
Louis, Missouri, Aug. 27th......The women
in Ohio want to vote on the new Constitu-
tion........Miss H. Chamberlain has been
elected Principal of the Newark (Del.)
Academy in the place of Prof. Porter who
resigned......A woman lately won her first
case as a lawyer in Chicago.


TO THE LADIES.

	The Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms have
been secured again this season for the forth-
coming fair. The following notice should be
carefully observed by all whom it may concern:
	TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES.—"Ladies"––The
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing Society
in last Spring's circular, invited your honorable
Societies to the forthcoming Fair, which will
be held on the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th
days of October next.
	It is desirable that this the eleventh exhibi-
tion should be a true exposition of the indus-
tries of Utah, and for this purpose it has been
deemed proper by the Board of Directors that
the Relief Societies should be again called upon
to respond as far as their circumstances will
permit.
	The Board express their gratitude for the
interest taken heretofore and hope that the
Exhibition of ’73 will witness a crowning effort
in the contributions of the Relief Societies.
	By order of the board of directors.
		ROBERT. L. CAMPBELL, Secretary.


USEFUL STUDY

	It is a pleasing feature in the course of events
that those studies which have long been 
thought of most importance in the education of 
girls, are beginnig to be viewed more exten-
sively in their true light. That is, that al-
though beautiful as ornamental accomplish-
ments, they are not the most essential to life
and happiness. Young women have expended
unmeasured time and means in acquiring fam-
iliarity with arts and sciences suited only to
the embellishment of life without understanding
any principle connected with the subject upon
which depends the exercise and enjoyment of
all else they learn. They have pursued all
other branches of knowledge, giving the least,
if any attention to the laws of health and the
years in learning to sing, neglecting to give one
hour's study to those wonderful instruments,
the ear and lungs.
	There is no other subject upon which, com-
paratively speaking, people are so generally
ignorant as that one which is of greatest im-
portance to their temporal well-being. Yet,
once interested in the study of physiology,
there is none other more charming and elevat-
ing in its nature than this when rightly
pursued.
	The strangely complicated machinery of 
which the human body is composed, with its
intricate and perfect working, is far more
curious than anything the ingenuity of man
could invent; or even comprehend. Yet,
throught the providence of an All-wise Creator,
and by cultivation, enough understanding and
intelligence may be obtained, concerning this
most marvelous piece of workmanship, to in-
sure safety to its various members in passing
through the ordinary vicissitudes of life. And is
there not infinitely more wisdom in procuring
a knowledge of those divine laws by which life
may not only be prolonged, but the enjoyment
of it, and its usefulness increased, than in 
studying ought else to their neglect?
	It is often through ignorance of these laws
that diseases are entailed which prove incura-
ble and terminate fatally or make miserable
and comparatively useless life which might
have been joyous and eminently valuable.
Knowledge which may serve to prevent such
mistakes, cannot be looked upon as superficial
to improfessional readers. It is much cheaper
and safer to take measures of preserving
health, than to trust to means of redeeming it
when lost. But unless it is known what will
and what will not be injurious to the system,
how is a sure course to be adopted to prevent
mistakes in life which may peril and injure
the delicate and wonderful human structure?
The means for obtaining an understanding of
self, of the errors to be avoided, and laws of
life to be observed, so as to prevent disease, to
remove or retain health and vigor, are more
numerous than formerly and more within the
reach of the people! We consider that the
acquiring of such knowledge should be made a
principal feature in our common and high
schools; and would recommend all, so far as
possible, to acquire a correct understanding of 
the organization, laws and needs of their being.
And to seek for the power of self-control that 
they may make use of this understanding for
their best good.
	Considering the great importance of this sub-
ject, especially to women, we thus earnestly
seek to impress it upon their attention; fully 
believing that, in a general sense, there is no
one study so inestimably useful and requisite
to all persons, young and old, of both sexes, as 
that of self.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


POLYGAMY.

	Writing upon this subject, Mrs. Dumway, 
edeitor of the "New North West," hopes to
hear from us "when Mrs. 2nd comes along."
She also ventures that we "will then desire an
interview with Judge McKean."
   We presume the lady is very sincere in her
manner of viewing things. But sincerity in
belief is no proof of correctness.
	If we were wanting to be divorced, we would
be likely to appeal to some one who could
accomplish the matter in a more satisfactory
way, and with less noise than our judges are
in the habit of doing; thinking the instructions
of ancient Paul still worthy of consideration,
in which he says to the Corinthians: "Dare
any of you having a matter against another,
go to law before the unjust, and not before the
saints?"
	Mrs. D. makes farther suggestions, which we
take in good part, as they were intended, and 
will endeavor to meet fairly and honestly. 
She says: 
   "We are not of those who rank the polygamic
women of Utah with adulterers. From their
stand-point they are remarkably virtuous, yet
our short stay of one week among them, while
it endeared us to many for their noble heroism
and genuine hospitality and goodness of heart,
revealed to us in individual cases such poig-
nancy of grief, especially among first wives,
whose husbands had found other loves and
founded other families, as we hope never again
to meet anywhere.  As we write there rises up
before our mental vision the pale image of one
of these victims of the lusts of men, miscalled
religion, whose earnest appeal through us to
her relatives in Portland, for means to get
"anywhere out of Utah," that she might be
able to get her daughters away from the blight 
of polygamy, haunts us yet. Our Utah friend
is a very valuable 'Exponent' of the equal
political rights of women.  Will she be kind
enough to tell why, if polygamy is right for
men, that it is a one-sided institution? Why
is it not as necessary for wives to have more 
than one husband, as for husbands to have 
more than one wife?"
   If "individual cases" may be taken as a stand-
ard by which a people and their principles are
to be judged, it is but necessary to glance
at the news columns of a daily paper to find
sufficient evidence to condemn the world with
no exceptions.
	Are those sympathies which are so accute
when awakened in behalf of polygamic wives,
less alive to the griefs of such women as Kate
Stoddard, Mrs. James Fisk, Mrs. Critteuden 
and thousands of others, the records of whose
wrongs without redress are daily published to
the world, while yet not a fourth is told?
	We wonder if  one pale victim's relatives 
in Portland were ever searched out, and if they
sent her means to get herself and daughters out
of Utah with. We hope they did; for that, 
indeed, would look like sympathy with som-
substance to it.
	Now we are requested to tell why if polgamy
is right for man, it is not right for woman in
the same way.
	Without consulting Christian views in the
least, a little sound reflection upon the laws of 
nature, should be a sufficient reply to such a
question. But taken into a religous considera-
tion, we may answer by asking, when Laban
gave Jacob his second daughter, Rachel, why
did he not furnish Leah with another husband?
We take Mrs. Duniway to be a Christian, and
suppose she believes and understand her Bible.
	We regret that our limited space will not
permit of farther expression now, but we may
refer to the subject again.


IN France there are in use half a million
donkeys, and in Italy 400,000. These hardy
little beasts do all the hardest of the work.


THE BETTER WAY.

	The way in which many "woman suffragists"
bandy the never ceasing and still unanswerable
question of "woman's rights" by depicting
woman's universal wrongs in such a light as
even to seriously prevent the obtaining of her
undisputed natural rights is simply absurd
and ridiculous. Often it is seemingly made to
appear that all women are subjected to tyranny
and degradation because some of them are not
allowed to advance as far and  fast as they
would, and might do, if all viewed their cause
correctly. And from the evidence of some
writers and speakers it would seem that because
foolish and wicked men are to be found, all men
are, in their estimation, fools or rascals.
	Why should the vindicating of so just, and
reasonable an object as universal suffrage for
women be carried to such extremes by its over-
zealous and impatient friends as to disgust men
of sense and make women of refined natures
almost ashamed to vote when lawfully privi-
leged to do so?
	Would it not be wisdom to be more just,
moderate and discriminating in advocating
the rights of woman, when her interests are so
closely enwoven with those of man that they
cannot be separated; while seeking to assume
rights not yet granted to make better use of
those already in their possession? Thus prov-
ing that they not only want their rights but are
as able to appreciate and use them wisely as
are the stronger sex.


﻿			HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Sabbath Schools of Cache county are
preparing to have a grand jubilee at Logan
City.
	The Foundation is being laid for a fine illu-
minated clock, which is to grace the corner of
the Eagle Emporium.
	Madam De Barry has been entertaining
some of the lovers of music in this city with a
charming performance on the piano. Her
musical abilities are said to be excellent.
	A company of young men in the 6th Ward,
have formed themselves into a Mutual Improv-
ment association. It will be well if their
example is followed by many others; and if
rightly conducted, much general good will be
the result.
	On Monday evening, the 1st inst., the Sab-
bath Schools in this county were well repre-
sented at the monthly Convention. The
subject which received most attention was
that of the forth coming Mammoth Concert, the
exact time of which is not yet decided.
	The late visits and missionary labors of
President Brigham Young and party, through
the settlements of Bear Lake and Cache val-
leys, have been of a cheering and refreshing
nature to all concerned. The company returned
to this city on the 6th inst., according to ex-
pectations; all in good health and spirits.
	Work on the Utah Northern Rail Road is
being pushed ahead by the enterprising men of
Cache valley. Excellent grain crops have been
raised in that county this season. But the
people say the greatest difficulty is that there
is no "cash" in "Cache," and they find it rather
embarrassing at times, to have cash accounts to
settle.
	The Salt Lake Theatre has been undergoing
some material changes of late,, under the direc-
tions of its new proprietors, Messrs. H. B.
Clawson, John T. Caine, Joseph A. Young,
Thomas Williams and Le Grande Young,
who purchased it a short time ago, of President
Brigham Young. Many improvements are
being made in the interior of the house, which
is designed to open October 1st.
	There is considerable novelty in sitting
opposite some "strangers" on the cars, and
hearing them talk of what they have seen
during their short stay in Utah. A lady of this
city happened to be thus entertained while
traveling between Brigham City and Ogden a
few days since. It was a well known gentle-
man of Brigham City, who was being described
and the lady viewed the description as a very
flattering one. The stranger who had visited him
declared him to be fifty years old, and the halest,
heartiest man of that age, he had ever known;
adding very suggestively that he was the hus-
band of three wives and the father of twenty-two
children, the youngest of which was ten months
old and his seventeenth boy. The children
were as fine, rosy and nice as he had ever seen
—and it was repeated—the "Colonel" was such
a jolly old soul, as robust and well as any in 
the country.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow and the editor of the
EXPONENT visited Cache valley last week, and
met with the Relief Societies of several of the
principal towns; the object of the visit
being to circulate particular information con-
cerning the two classes being organized in this
city, for the purpose of preparing women phy-
sicians. They were kindly welcomed by
hospitable friends wherever they visited, and
large congregations assembled to listen to the
instructions given; which were varied and
interesting. Miss Snow was warmly congratu-
lated on having so successfully performed her
tour on the Continent and through the Holy
Land, of which she conversed with much ease
and satisfaction. The only inconvenience which
threatened the ladies, during a week's absence
from home, was an appearance of their being
obliged to "ride on a rail" from Brigham
Junction to Coriune. And even this chance for
an adventure was over-ruled by the timely
interference of Mr. Oliver Snow, who appeared
on the scene with horses and carriage. Miss
Snow admits that although very polite and
gentlemanly railroad men are to be found else-
where, those of Utah, surpass all others with
whom she has met. On the evening of the 9th
inst., she and her companion greatly enjoyed
a rich treat of very sweet singing from the
Wellsville choir, by whom they were seren-
aded.


UNHAPPY HUSBAND.

	Perhaps it is your own fault. Too many
men take all the love their wives can
give them as a matter of course, never
thinking to return it till the wife gets tired
of looking for it and ceases to bestow affec-
tion. Court your wife, just as you did in
your wooing. It won't hurt you, and de-
pend upon it, you can win her back in no
other way :– We have known husbands to
never once bestow a word or look of love
for years, and when at last their disap-
pointed wives are caught gaily laughing and
chatting with other company in the very
vein of humor which first enchained these
exacting lords, they have become as cross
and repellant as hornet-stung bears. Don't
be such a noodle, we beg. Women are not
angels, and they can't always endure every-
thing. A man is foolish who expects to
retain the warm, girlish affections of his
wife by indifference when he gained them
only by most attentive wooing. We repeat,
court her. Let her see that you care for
her, that her comfort is essential to your
enjoyment, and if she don't forgive and love
and bless you we know nothing about
women, that's all.—"New North West."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
			MY TREASURES.

	My Mountain Home, dear, honored place,
	  My heart doth fondly love thee;
	I love the light of nature's face
	  Dispensed around, above me.

	The snow hills sunk to murmuring floods,
	  The grave, surrounding towers,
	A floating field of gorgeous clouds,
	  And slopes of waving flowers.

	Ye all have notes that reach my ear,
	   With soft, mellifluous wooing.
	But through my spirit's silent sphere
	  Is music deeper flowing.

	Eternal truth has waked my soul,
	  And chants with sacred pleasure,
	Though nature's charms rare gifts unroll,
	  Faith is my holiest treasure.
									KENT.


AN ADDRESS.
		By Miss Eliza R. Snow.
Delivered in the Tabernacle. Ogden, at a Relief
	Society meeting, Thursday afternoon, August
	14th, 1873.
		Reported by James Taylor.
	[As the first part of the address is of a
descriptive nature, in which the speaker
delineates the course of travel pursued by
President George A. Smith and party, the
lately returned tourists, and as the readers
of the Exponent have been favored with
much the same details through Miss Snow's
letters, we merely make a few extracts, giv-
ing the latter portion of the address in full.]
—Ed.
		In Lyons, we saw them weave silk
of various descriptions. They weave pho-
tograph likenesses and battle scenes, and
delineate countenances plainly as if they
had been painted.
	In the King's Palace in Munich, I was
shown window curtains made of glass, in
brocade and beautiful colors. Without feel-
ing of them, I should not have thought but
that they were silk, but they were glass.
		I visited many churches and cathe-
drals; I visited mosques (a mosque is a 
Mahamedan place of worship;) saw all I
could under the governments where we
traveled. And the more I saw, the more I
felt the necessity of the Lord! having a
government on the earth for the sake of the
people, and thought how well off the Saints
in Zion were; and what blessings they en-
joyed. Blessings and privileges above those
of all the nations of the earth. And, we my
sisters, we have the privilege of being
organized according to the pattern which
God has given for the females in the Church
of Jesus Christ. We are privileged above
all other woman kind on the face of the
earth. I thought when I was abroad, I
thought before I went, and I have thought
much since I returned, how necessary for
the Saints of the living God to be more of a
distinct people than what they are, to be
the Saints of God in very deed––and to be
as different from the rest of the world as
our privileges are more exalted—we should
be a shining light to  the nations of the earth.
But I often say to myself, are we what we
should be?
	I was talking with President Young about
how we were received abroad. He said
that the Saints were growing in influence;
and that if they lived up to their privileges,
their influence would be far greater than
it is now. I told him that I believed that
if we were as distinct a people as the Lord
wanted us to be our influence would be far
greater. He said it would. But instead of
that, are we not trying to gain influence by
assimilating to the habits and customs, and
the spirit of the world?
[new column]
	Now I do not know that this would apply
to my sisters in ogden, for they are a live
people. Their works exhibit that. And 
their reputation bespeaks them to be awake
to their duties. But still we are never to
come to a stand point. We are to be pro-
gressing and growing better. If we have
done well to-day, we must do still better to-
morrow. We believe in eternal pro-
gressing, and growing better. If we have
done well to-day, we must do still better to-
morrow. We believe in eternal progression.
It will not do to say that we have so much
to do that we cannot do any more, because
the works and duties for women in Zion are
constantly increasing. No where on the
earth has woman so broad a sphere of labor
and duty, of responsibility and action, as in
Utah.
	I tried in many instances to make
people believe that women in Utah had
more freedom than women had any where
else on the earth. But they thought that
they knew better than I did. I told them 
how long I had lived with the people, and
that I ought to know better than strangers.
	To be sure we have trials, but what are
they? I want to ask my sisters now a seri-
ous question. When you are filled with the
Spirit of God, and the Holy Ghost rests upon
you—that comforter which Jesus promised
and which takes of the things of God and
gives them to us, and shows us things
to come, and brings all things to our re-
membrance—when you are filled with this
spirit, do you have any trials? I do not
think you do. For that satisfies and fills
up every longing of the human heart, and
fills up every vacuum. When I am filled 
with that spirit, my soul is satisfied; and I
can say in good earnest, that the trifling
things of the day do not seem to stand in
my way at all. But just let me loose my
hold of that spirit and power of the
Gospel, and partake of the spirit of the
world, in the slightest degree, and trouble
comes; there is something wrong. I am
tried; and what will comfort me? You can-
not impart comfort to me that will satisfy
the Immortal mind, but that which comes
from the fountain above. And is it not our
privilege to so live that we can have this
constantly flowing into our souls? To be
sure we have many of the crosses of life,
but what do we meet them for? Are they
for our own good and benefit or do we meet
them all as for Zion's sake? Do we let Zion
take full possession of our desires, our am-
bition?
	Now my sisters, though I took that tour to
Europe and Asia, would I have gone to
gratify my own personal selfishness? I felt
that it was right for me to go. My sisters
sent me. I went believing that good would
result from my going. And I have had
that belief all the time. I never once
regretted starting. I told President Smith
that I did not think that anything could
occur to make me regret that I went. I
try never to allow myself to do anything for
a selfish gratification. Still we are all frail
and weak mortals of the earth, earthy:
But that comforter, which is a legacy that
belongs to every Saint of God, and to
every one who has been baptized for the
remission of sins, will lift our desires to a
nobler aim, and we forget all about self.
We have self all absorbed in the interests of
the work of God. We are here to perform
duties, and to do our part towards establish-
ing God's Kingdom. We, my sisters, have
as much to do as our brethren have. We are
to work in union with them. Every woman
who fills her position as a wife, honorably,
stands as a counselor to her husband. Not
a dictator, a counselor. And what a life it
is to live my sisters! What a noble life,
to live, so as to fill this position, in which
we are blessed, and are honorable as women
of God.
	Paul the Apostle anciently spoke of holy
women. It is the duty of each one of us to
be a holy woman. We shall have elevated
aims, if we are holy women. We shall feel
that we are called to perform important
duties. No one is exempt from them.
There is no sister so isolated, and her
sphere so narrow but what she can do a
great deal towards establishing the King-
dom of God upon the earth.	I am proud to see so many young ladies
associated with the Relief Society in Ogden.
There should be an association in every
settlement, and in every Ward in Salt Lake
City. And wherever there is a Relief
Society, the girls and young ladies should
have as much to do as other women already
in the Retrenchment Association. You
need not be startled at the words Retrenchment
Association. If you associate together,
your minds are improved, you are gaining
intelligence, and you are retrenching from
ignorance. The Spirit of God will impart
instruction to your minds, and you will
impart it to each other. I say, God bless
you my young sisters. Remember that you
are Saints of God; and that you have im-
portant works to perform in Zion.
	How is it with a great many of our young
people? The are baptized when they are
eight years old, and have hands laid upon 
them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Do
they know what the Holy Ghost is? Do
they ever minister in the Holy Ghost?
Have they ever had the gifts of the Gospel?
Look around you and think how many there
are, children of the Latter-day Saints, who
know no more of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
than the heathens do. Why? because they
have had nothing to do with it. Their
fathers and mothers are good Saints. But
they are children of Zion. They can go
their own way, and do as they list. They
can be full of the spirit of the gentiles, and
be so blind that they cannot see the differ-
ence between the profession of a gentile and
the sincerity of the Saints. They have no
light in them. Why is it? Was it so at
the beginning of this Church? No it was
not. I can bear testimony that in the
beginning of the Church, children and young
people had the gifts of the Gospel, and prayed
and sang. They talked as much as old
people. They knew what the Spirit of God
was. There was no need of cautioning
them about the spirit of the world. They
had that monitor within them, the Holy
Ghost which showed them things in their
true light. I should like to see the effects
of it now in our young people. There is
some cause why it is not so. And I think
it would amount to quite as much, and a
little more, to have attention paid to these
things in such a manner that it would save
the children that are born in Zion, than it
would to go to the trouble of raising money,
and bringing the Saints from the nations of
the earth. Why are there not some steps
taken to save the youth?
	Now, in Salt Lake City President Young,
counseled Sister Horne and myself, and
Sister Smoot to organize the Young girls.
He wanted his young girls organized first.
He dictated who should be president, and
she to choose her Counselors, and start out
right. But how did it work? There was
cold water thrown on the efforts made. It
was turned to ridicule by many. They said
"what is the use of the girls meeting to-
gether, and praying, and talking?" And I
would ask what is the use of our brethren
meeting together? If the young girls and
the boys do not need the Spirit of the Gos-
pel, there does not any person need it.


But, I think the state of society in Salt Lake
City does  need it. You may talk to the
young about the follies of the world and the
unholy influences of the gentiles till dooms
day, and it will make no impression. But,
you place them in a position where they
will get the Holy Ghost, and that will be a
sure protection against outside influences.
Some will say, “our-boys, are sent out on
missions and then they get the Spirit of
God." Some of the boys are sent on mis-
sions, and it is necessary to keep them out,
that they may retain the Spirit of God, if
there is not enough of it at home. Some
of our young men who are sent out on
missions are obliged to seek to God but
when they come home they are laughed out
of it, and perhaps fall into the practices
of those who are here! It is not so with all
of them to be sure.
	In referring again to the organization of
the young ladies, I may say we have aposta-
tized in Salt Lake City, but there are so
many left as to show what that organiza-
tion would have been if carried out as
President Young desired it to be. We have
organizations of young ladiea in Salt Lake
City, who do not need anybody to tell them
about the influences and fashions of the 
world. They have just as much distaste for
them as the older folks have....I do think
to-day that if that counsel had been carried
out among the young girls, and boys, and
they had been organized and got the Spirit
of God, that our society would have shown
a very different character from what it does.
Some of the mothers and fathers, who spoke
lightly of it, now see the necessity of it,
to their sorrow.
	"Well, but now, Sister Eliza, are you not
scolding folks?" I have to talk so loud, as I 
want you all to hear, and it may seem like
scolding.
	There are a great many good things that
I could talk about, but I want to talk about
things that will produce effects, and effects
of salvation. It does not do to fool away
our time, thinking that all is well. It is
necessary for us to be laying that founda-
tion, which will secure the salvation of the
young, as well as of the old, and not leave
it to the exigencies of time, nor to the
chances of circumstances, but each one of us
see to it ourselves, and cultivate those
principles that will tend to salvation.
	Now, I am thankful that these my young
sisters meet together. You will be blest.
Sister Richards will be blest for promoting
these organizations. I understand you are
in connection with the Relief Society. It
makes no difference. But I want to say
one or two things, that I wish you to
remember. It is not only necessary for you
to meet together, you should talk to each
other, and talk of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
You can talk of your every-day concerns,
but accustom yourselves to talking to each
other on the principles of the Gospel. It
will lay a foundation for your being emi-
nently useful hereafter. That is what you
are born for. You might as well have been
born in some other nation or dispensation
unless you can feel that you have a mission
in Zion. Study the principles of the Gospel,
converse on them, understand them, so that
you may be able to cope with any of the
wisest of the world. They are coming
here. They often ask questions of the
young, when they would not interrogate
the older ones. You want to understand
that you are living to be Saints, and never
be ashamed to acknowledge yourselves to
be Latter-day Saints. It is not enough that
you are born in Zion. It is true that the
Prophets said it should be an honor to be
born in Zion; but it is a dishonor not to live
up to the blessings of the Gospel to which
you are heirs.
	I see the Relief Society here has no house
of its own-no house that it can control. I
know the sisters are accomodated. But
each Society needs a house at its own dis-
posal. And if the sisters in Ogden, with 
the sanction of the brethren, undertake to
build a house, the brethren will help them.
It is said that God helps those who help
themselves, land the brethern are so god-
like that they will help you. Bishop Wooley
ley is now stepping forward to have such a
house built in the 13th Ward, in Salt Lake
City.
	There is another thing I want to mention
before I sit down. President Young is
requiring the sisters to get students of
Medicine. He wants a good many to get a
clasical education; and then get a degree
for Medicine. So far as getting the degree
is concerned, there would be no advantage,
but in connection with the degree, the
female practitioner stands on the same
grounds a man does. Are there here, now,
any sisters who have ambition enough, and
who realize the necessity of it, for Zion's
sake, to take up this study. There are
some who are naturally inclined to be
nurses; and such ones would do well to 
study Medicine, if they are inclined to do
so. If they cannot meet their own ex-
penses, we have means of doing so. It is
proposed that the sisters, instead of expend-
ing means to emigrate foreign Saints, spend
that means in educating young women.
Those who go through this course should be
young women. We have, in Salt Lake
City, a Mrs. Barker, who proposes to teach.
But there are many branches you need to 
study before going to the expense of being
boarded abroad to study. You need to study
Physiology, Anatomy, and other kindred
branches. 
	Then, another class of women is wanted
more advanced  in age, who are natural
nurses, and would be willing to study ob-
stetrics; this lady is going to give a series
of lectures for their benefit. If some who
have natural inclinations for nursing would
come and attend these lectures, that would
be fulfilling the requirements, so far. We
are waiting to get up as large a class as we
can. There are some eight or twelve now.
President Young said that he wanted one,
at least, from every settlement. Of course, 
so large a city as Ogden, should furnish
quite a number; so that we can have our
own practitioners, instead of having gentle-
men practitioners. In ancient times we
know that women officiated in this depart-
ment, and why should it not be so now?
The difficulty is in getting the sisters to feel
like undertaking it.
	Now if there are any who will attend
through all of these classes, their expenses
will be met if they are not able to meet
them. Several Ogden women should attend
this course  lectures, and confine themselves
to that particular department.
	We have to get up these classes and 
attend toall these things. Don't you see
that our sphere is increasing? Our sphere
of action will continually widen, and no
woman in Zion need to mourn because her
sphere is too narrow.
	God bless you, my sisters, and encourage
you, that you may be filled with light, and
realize that you have no interests but in the
welfare of Zion. Let your first business be
to perform your duties at home. But inas-
much as you are wise stewards, you will
find time for social duties, because these are
incumbent upon us as daughtes and mothers
in Zion. By seeking to perform every duty
you will find that your capacity will increase,
and you will be astonished at what you can
accomplish. You have been astonished
at what duties you have done. The Lord 
help us. The Lord is with His Saints and 
helps them to do His will and He watches
over them by night and by day. Inasmuch
as we continue faithful, we shall be those
that will be crowned in the presence of God
and the lamb. You, my sisters, if you are
faithful will become Queens of Queens,
and Priestesses unto the Most High God.
These are your callings. We have only to
discharge our duties. By and by our labors
will be past, and our names will be crowned
with everlasting honor, and be had in ever-
lasting remembrance among the Saints of
the Most High God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHO'S AHEAD

	A gentleman asks the girls the following
questions: “Could you love a man who wore
false hair when he had enough of his own?
Who painted his face and improved his form
as you improve (?) yours? Who pinched
his feet with small shoes, hands with small
gloves, waist with corsets; and then, as if
he had not already deformed himself
enough, tied a huge bustle to his back and
thrust tiny mountains of wire into his
bosom?" In reply to which, a lady re-
sponds: "Could you love a girl who defiled
her mouth with tobacco, and loaded the air
with fumes of cigars? Who staggered home
several times a week the worse for liquor?
Who indulged in fast horses, bet high at
races, and swaggered round the streets with
questionable companions? Which picture
wears the most alluring colors? — "Woman's
Journal."


GEORGE ELLIOT.
	Mrs. George H. Lewes (better known as
George Elliot), formerly Miss Evans, author
of "Adam Bede,' "Middlemarch," and
several other novels, was the daughter of a
poor clergyman, but in early life was adop-
ted by a wealthy gentleman, who gave her
the best education that England could afford.
When she left school, which happened when
she was still very young, Hubert Spencer
became her tutor and friend, and under his
skillful training her mind was developed
rapidly and broadly. He taught her to
think, to reflect, and to reason by scientific
methods. It is said he first advised her to
undertake the writing of works of fiction.
She applied herself to the languages, master-
ing German, French and Italian, and be-
came an accomplished musician, familiariz-
ing herself not only with the fine arts, but
also with metaphysics and logic. While in
this stage she translated, among other
things, Strauss' 'Life of Jesus,' and soon
after became one of the Westminster Review
writers. Here, by her intimacy with John
Stuart Mill and others, she became con-
firmed in their peculiar religious views.
Later on she married Professor Lewes,
under circumstances which are not nuder-
stood, and which are said to have evolved
a great deal of courage on her part. She
and her husband are zealous diciples of
Comte. Mrs. Lewes seldom appears in
society, and resides with her husband in a
retired nook in the north of London, hard
by Regent's Park, in a neighborhood of
pretty semi-suburban villas, her house being
surrounded by a neat garden and tastefully
arranged shrubbery, where the noise and
hum of the street is shut out by a high
wall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the Woman’s Exponent.
	A FAMILY CONVERSATION.

	Husband. Wife, have you read what the
papers say about Miss Smiley of Chicago
making proselytes by preaching? What
do you think women will do next? 
	Wife. Why, go to pleading law, I guess.
	Husband. Well, well! If anything on
earth can disgust me with women, it will
be to see them take the stand and go to
making speeches. I am sorry  it comes in
my day. I love woman in her own sphere.
	Wife. Pray tell me, what is her sphere?
Not to know anything only what her husband
tells her I suppose. I should be sorry to see
any of my girls turn lawyers; but if they
did, they would be true to their clients, and
not be bought and sold as some men are.
	Husband. Just as I expected; you bring
up argument and reason to sustain women
in their wild goose chase after law and phy-
sic and many other absurdities!
	Wife. Well Mr. Brown, you know that
my opportunities have been limited, that I
know but little, and am dependent upon
you for that. I have taken the Apostle
Paul's advice; "Let women learn from their
own husbands at home and be in subjection."
	Husband. Well, Mary, you've acted
wisely by staying at home and attending to
your domestic duties, and letting the out-
side world alone. Women are too pure to
mix up in political strife.
	Wife. Oh! that just reminds me of what
John asked me yesterday. He said, "Mother,
Judge Johnson is in the parlor talking to
father about that suit pending in court.
"What did he say about it?" "He said he
feared they would swindle the widow and
children out of the most of the property.
I could not understand half the judge said."
"Why not my son?" "Because I have never
read law, neither been in a court room, what
do they mean by mittimus and venire?"
"You'll have to ask your father, my son."
"Well mother, I think it is time we were
learning something. Suppose father had
dropped off suddenly like Mr. Grey, and
left his business in the condition it is in,
with those securities hanging over it?"
	Husband. Who ever would have thought
that John, no older than he is, would have
noticed what the Judge was talking about?
I believe I will bring home some law books
and have him go to reading them. Wife.
And Annie too; I don't wish to raise her as
ignorant as I am. We do not know whose
hands she may fall into when we are gone.
	Husband. Oh! Mary, you know I don't
want my daughters contaminated with law
and politics; they have enough to do to
study music and dress. Whenever women
engage in masculine pursuits, it takes away
all other charms.
	Wife. Well, I have found out that
charme will not take a virtuous woman
through the world. Look at your sister
Maud, brought up to know nothing but
to dress and to thump on the piano! She is
a sample of what charms will do towards
rearing a family. She married a man who
has spent all the property her father gave
her, and you went his security for five
thousand dollars. Now he has run away to
get rid of paying his debts and left her
with six little children, broken hearted,
and knows no more about feeling the re-
sponsibilities of wife and mother than our
little Jane.
	Husband. Oh well, you know if women
get good husbands they have no need to
learn anything outside the sphere of women.
	Wife. Why I heard you say last week,
that the heads of the nation were becoming
so corrupt, and dishonorable that they would
be the downfall of the nation; a great num-
ber of men who go to the Senate and House
of Representatives to represent the people
of this once Great Republic, can be bought
and sold for a few thousand dollars. If this
is the case, it is certainly time women were
beginning to study as least the first "Law"
of nature—self-preservation.
							W. E.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
	The total length of railroads in Germany,
at the close of 1859, was 7,949 miles.
	The first trial by jury in California is said
to have taken place, among a party of Mor-
mons at Yerba Buena, 1846.
	Dr. M'Cosh says that there are 20,000
Presbyterian congregations in the world,
embracing a population of 34,000,000.
	Iron boiler tubes in a steamship rust out
very fast when the vessel is laid by, they
endure five times longer when in constant
use.
	The large iron pipes employed in the
Glasgow (Scotland) Water-works were orig-
inally, four feet in diameter, 1 [-] of an inch
thick, and sustained a pressure from about
300 feet of head.
	A Major Colborne backs himself for £100
to walk fifteen miles in three hours on the
Maidstone road, England. He is to carry a
brick weighing six and a half pounds in
each hand, so as to touch his sides.
	Christopher Shearer, a fruit famer near
Reading, Pennsylvania, has probably the
largest refrigerator in the country. It is
fifty-five feet square, and holds, when filled,
about one hundred and forty cartloads of ice
and four thousand bushels of fruit.
	The Ipswich (England) "Journal" states
that on the 12th of May, at Lowestoft, Lady
Smith, aged 100 years, gave a dinner to 107
old people, whose united ages amounted to
8,228 years, or about an average of seventy-
seven to each.
	One-fourth of a share in a London water
company was lately sold for £16,000. The
face value of an entire share is only £1! It
is one of the wealthiest corporations in the
world, but its projector lost his fortune and 
died in the workouse. Its name is the
New River Company.


﻿TAYLOR & CUTLER
Are offering Special Inducements in Prices of
		LADIES' FALL DRESS GOODS
	For the Conference Trade. Store west side East
Temple street.
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	Books in all branches of Literature and
Education will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.
LADIES, YOU ARE INVITED TO CALL
	At Mrs. Wilkinson's LADIES' BAZAR for fash-
ionable Fall Millinery and Fancy Dry Goods and
Notions. New and stylish goods continually arriv-
ing.
	First South street, west of Z.C.M.I.
GRAND CHEAP SALES FOR THIRTY DAYS
			NOW GOING ON.
		500 Pairs Blankets,
		300 Soldiers' Overcoats, Cavalry,
	     1,000 Soldiers' Dress Coats, $3.00 each,
		500 Pairs Government Shoes, $1.25 per pair,
		900 Umbrellas, "great variety,"
	 $10,000 worth of Hats,
		  50 Dozen Pairs California Shoes,
	     1,000 yards Home-made Linsey,
		300 Dozen Winter Gloves, variety,
		100 Dozen Home-made Socks,
	I Defy the trade to compete with me in prices of
Jewelry.
	I will positively sell at prices to suit customers, Rich
or Poor, for thirty days.			H.E. PHELPS,
	s15							29 Main Street.
[new column]
MARY H. BAKER M.D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a m. to 3 p m.
MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50
CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the TELEGRAPH WASHING MACHINE. which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P.O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	- 	- 	- 	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	- 	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed. selling
	price $4	-	-	-	-	-	 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.	
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 2.	 	 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, October 1, 1873.			No. 9.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Stokes' trial is set for the 6th inst. Will
he be acquitted?
	A new witness, a woman appears in the
Stokes-Fisk case, through whose testimony
it is said he will be released. Let her tell 
her story.
	Her Majesty, Queen Victoria, receives
as her pension about $5,000 per day. The
Prince of Wales has about $109 per day.
No wonder English Royalty is considered
expensive.
	A man in Kansas offers to bet $500 that his
wife can walk 500 miles in three weeks. Like
a sensible woman she prefers that he should
do the "walking" himself; the design of
the proposed wager is too apparent.
	The big Graphic balloon which was to
start from New York on an upper air voyage
across the ocean to Europe, on the 12th of
September, had the good fortune to burst
before it was pumped full enough of gas to
"go up."
	Hon. Roscoe Conkling has been appointed
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States. He is reported to be a very
judicious and good man, as any man should
be holding so high and sacred an office in
the nation.
	An infant winter presented itself in this
position of the globe, about the 20th ult.
It bore no signs of violence, but merely
gave the atmosphere a sharp, chilly touch as if
to stir people up to a remembrance that cold
weather was not far away.
Miss Susan B. Anthony has lately published
a pamphlet containing a complete account
of the prosecution and trial of the women
who voted in connection with herself. No
one could have a better right to state the
facts in the case—not even Judge Hunt.
	The diabolical practice of drowning
children, is to be henceforth considered a
punishable offence among the Chinese. Sure
enough—not only in England, Scotland and
America are the rights of the feminine
portion of humanity being taken into con-
sideration, but even in heathen China also.
	Believing that his wife had the in-
terest of all their children equally at heart,
the late Rev. Dr. Todd bequeathed his whole
estate, worth $15,000 to her. So sensible a
man should have had a wife worthy of such
confidence, and he, doubtless, knew that what
he did was the fair way of doing business.
	Uneasiness and depression in the Lon-
don market, was caused by the sudden
failures in New York, although its own
financial condition is said to be firm and
sound. London has no need to get excited
over little financial crashes this side the
waters—it will have some of its own, per-
haps, before long.
	A Young lady in Pennsylvania left home
recently for the purpose of spending the af-
ternoon in gathering blackberries. The next
news her anxious mother had from her was
that she was married and settled down to
house-keeping in Georgia. She evidently
has an eye to business and understands the
rights of woman in relation to matrimony.
	On the nineteenth, ult., nineteen firms
failed in Wall Street, New York. Wild
[new column]
excitement among the people prevailed for
several hours, as a natural result. Reports
state that in the Gold Exchange, the scene
defied description, members acting like
demons as each new failure was announced.
Thus it is, the face of fortune varies, and
rich and poor are subject to its frowns
as well as its smiles.
	Chicago courts are said to turn out an
average of two divorces a day. The practice
tolerated is represented as having become so
common and familiar, that little attention is
paid to a divorce case by the judges, more
than to report in favor of the complainant's
petition. If, in that city, wives in general
should sue for about $20,000 alimony, their
divorce suits would be likely to create a
great stir.
	"X," in "Woman's Journal," takes a
very intelligent view of the woman suf-
frage question, demands a practical test and
says, why not give impartial suffrage a
trial? accept it as we would one of Dr.
Hall's cheerful prescriptions, which are
warranted to do no harm, even if they do no
good. Let men take the only sensible
course left for them; and give woman the
ballot.
	The "New North West" has a pleasant
way of expressing its views on certain
points. It says: Miss Eliza R. Snow, the
talented maiden polygamist, whose life and
religion constitute a remarkable matri-
monial paradox, has recently returned from
an extended Oriental tour. Her communi-
cations to the Woman's Exponent during
her absence have been characterized by strik-
ing versatility of genius and fine scholarly
ability, We regret that a fine poem from
her pen in blank verse, written we think, in
Palestine, clipped from the Exponent for
publication in this paper, was mislaid
during our vacation. Will some of our Salt
Lake friends be kind enough to forward us
another copy?"
	We are asked by the editor of the
"New North West," why it is that religious
revelations always come to men." It is a
mistaken idea that woman has not the same
right to know for herself what the Lord
requires at her hands, that a manhas The
Latter-day Saints acknowledge no such
theory. In numbers 16 and 17, volume 1,
of this journal, "W.E." writing on woman's
agency, very clearly illustrates that it is a 
divine prerogative belonging to woman to
call upon the Lord, and receive answers to
her prayers; and states that but for having
acted upon this principle, she should not
occupy the position she now holds as the
wife of a polygamist in Salt Lake City.
Thousands of "Mormon" women can truth-
fully bear the same testimony. Number
18, volume 1 of the Exponent, contains
"A Chapter in the Life of Naoma"—Mrs,
Vilate Kimball, wife of the late President
Heber C. Kimball—written by "B"—Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball—(we give the names now
by permission) in which it is shown that
direct communication from God was given
to the woman in answer to her enquiries,
and that through this means only, she learned
the law of Celestial marriage, or plurality of
wives, as her husband, through sympathy
had refused to teach it to her.
	A convention by telegraph was recently
[new column]
held by the employes of the Atlantic and
Pacific Telegraph Campany, in reference to
the death of the late Superintendent of that
division, Mr. C. L. Goodwin, of which the
Troy, New York, papers give accounts. The
offices in that division were all connected
into one circuit, extending from New York
to Albany, thence via Troy to Saratoga
and return to Albany, westward to Syracuse,
and via Oswego, Clyde, and Rochester to
Buffalo and Niagara Falls, back from Buf-
falo via Auburn, Sennecca Falls, etc,, to
Auburn again. Each employe remained in
his office and gave by means of the telegraph,
his remarks or motions to the others. New
York called the meeting to order, at the
appointed time. Buffalo moved that Mr.
Hauff, chief operator at New York, be made
permanent chairman. Troy seconded the
motion and it was carried. Speeches, reso-
lutions, etc, followed; and after the
business for which the meeting was called,
had all been harmoniously transacted, an
adjournment took place. The accounts of
such proceedings must be interesting read-
ing to telegraphists.
	The "Missouri Republican" gives the
following account of the miraculous escape
from drowning of an infant "King:" "A
Mrs. King had a surprise at Shawneetown,
Ill., the other day. It was an accident that
Mrs. King happened to be at Shawneetown.
She did not intend to go there, but the
steam-boat "Jennie Howell," on which she
was traveling, struck a snag in the Ohio river.
Several of the passengers were drowned,
and among them some children. Mrs. King
had a child on board whom she mourned as
lost, and was taken to Shawneetown with-
out her babe. The "Jennie Howell" sunk
in deep water, and the next morning men
went to the vessel to recover the bodies of
the lost. Soon after daylight a mattress was
seen floating in the cabin, which was filled
with water nearly to the ceiling. Upon 
examination a child, a little boy, was discov-
ered on the mattress sleeping as peacefully 
as if nothing had happened. His bed was
not very dry, for it sunk a good deal from
soaking, but still sustained its living freight.
In due time the child was sent to Shawnee-
town, where the other passengers had been
landed the evening before. Its coming made
an excitement among the wrecked travelers,
for more than one mother had lost children
by the disaster. It was a touching scene
when Mrs. King recognized the child as her
boy whom she had mourned as lost nearly
twenty-four hours. The preservation of
Moses in the bulrushes was not so miracu-
lous as the safety of Mrs. Kings boy. He 
had been tossing about on the waste waters 
in the cabin all night, and was brought to his
mother alive in the hour of her deepest
affliction." This story is worthy of being
repeated by mothers, in teaching the little
ones concerning the goodness and alwise
providences of the great Creator; that He
lives and acts in our day as he did formerly,
when little Moses was born and saved from
the death which threatened him. Had the
child of Mrs. King awkened during the 
night, or had he chanced to roll off the
mattress in his sleep, we could not then
have exclaimed as we now do—happy baby,
thrice happy mother!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


﻿BLESSINGS.
We have glorious light and sunshine,
Morning's brightness evening’s rest;
Spring’s sweet flowers, and Autumn’s treasu es,
Join to make earth’s children blest

We can list to heavenly music.
Strains that lift our thoughts from earth;
Cheers and gladdens those who gather
In home circles round the hearth.

Then, to crown all other pleasures,
Love and friendship bring their store,
Pure and priceles are their treasures,
And they’ll last forever more.

“Yes,” you say, “has not the serpent,
Cast his blighting trail o’er all;
Scattered seeds of sin and sorrow.
Pain and death, since Adam's fall? ’

True, yet ’tis in sorrow's darkness,
Friendship's purest rays are found;
Is it not the grave that opens.
Where celestial joys abound?

Would we cherish pearls and diamonds,
If for them no price we paid?
Could we know and prize the sunlight,
Were it not for night’s deep shade?

Scatter seeds of love and gladness,
Nourish them to life and light;
Then before their glorious brightness
Sin and death will take their flight.
							Hop .


R.S. REPORTS.
	Synopsis of the minutes of a meeting of
the Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, held in
the Fifteenth Ward Hall, Sept. 4th, 1873.
The meeting had been announced to the
public, and the hall was filled with the
members of the Ward and visitors from
various parts of the city, and the adjacent
settlements. The house was called to order
by President Mrs. S. M. Kimball. Singing
"Oh my Father thou that dwellest," prayer
by Mrs. Zina D. Young. Singing "We 
thank thee Oh God for a Prophet." An ac-
count of the organization of the Female
Relief Society in Nauvoo was given by Pres-
ident Mrs. S. M. Kimball, followed with
remarks by Sisters Z. D. Young, M. I.
Horne, P. Woodruff and a number of
others upon a variety of subjects, among
which were the object and aim of the Relief
Societies, the duties and obligations resting
upon its members, the instruction of the
young, the early and present condition of 
the Church, the principle of polygamy, and
so forth. Great interest was manifested 
by all the speakers, and we think we are
safe in saying that all persons were pleased
and benefitted by the meeting. Meeting
was adjourned at 5 p. m. Singing "Re-
deemer of Israel," etc. Benediction by
James M. Barlow,
			S. E. Russell, Secretary.
	Extracts from minutes of the 16th meet-
ing of the Tenth Ward Junior Retrench-
ment Association, held August 5th, 1873,
at the Tenth Ward meeting house. Meet-
ing opened by singing "Arise my soul
arise;" prayer by Sister Charlotte Fawcett;
singing, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's
glad morning;" minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and accepted. Essay by Coun-
selor Mary A. Cheshire. President Mrs.
Mary J. Pierce remarked that order was the
subject for the evening, and said "Let us
cultivate it both at home and abroad, for
where good order is kept much good may
be accomplished. We should observe the
strictest order here in our meetings, for
nothing is governed rightly where there is
no order established. Order is one thing
we come here to be instructed in; then let
us keep good order among ourselves. I
[new column]
should like all present to give some of their
experience in keeping order. The young
ladies are improving with their essays.
May they continue to improve in all good
works, is my prayer." Mrs. Mary H. Tout
said: "We must get over this timidity, and
not let the moments pass by without im-
proving them; we should ask the Lord to
give us words to express our feelings. I 
am pleased with what has been said. If
we cultivate order among ourselves we will
find no difficulty in teaching it to others. I
know we are prospering and inasmuch as
we prove faithful we shall continue to pro-
gress" Sister Charlotte Fawcett said, "I
coincide with the young lady who has just
spoken—you are progressing rapidly, and I
know you are uniting your efforts to help 
carryon this work; keep on in the path
you are now pursuing and you will come off
triumphant in the end. I would advise all
the young ladies who have had their en-
dowments to be very particular to have
their garments perfect, for they are a shield
to us, and should be made after the right
pattern. I know that the order of Retrench-
ment is from God, and my whole heart is
in it. May we always be thankful for the
many blessings with which we are sur-
rounded." Mrs. Olive Ann Baxter made the
following remarks. "It is natural for the
young girls to be a little bashful when called
to speak, but they will soon overcome this,
and will see the great blessings of these
meetings. When I was young my father
taught me to fear the Lord and keep his
commandments, and I have done so to the
best of my ability. I thank my Heavenly
Father that I had some one to instruct me
in His ways. How thankful the young girls
should be in this day, for the many privi-
leges they enjoy! They not only have their
parents to instruct them, but they can meet
together on such occasions as this, and be
instructed by intelligent and experienced
ladies." Essay by Miss Martha M. H. Paul.
Miss Annie Phipens, Miss Martha M. H. 
Paul and Counselors Mrs. Mary H. Cheshire
made remarks. Appointments were made
for the next meeting, and meeting ad-
journed. Singing "Mid scenes of confu-
sion." Benediction by President Mrs. Mary
I. Pierce. (More than sixty young ladies
belong to the 10th Ward Retrenchment As-
sociation.)
		MARTHA M. H. PAUL, Secretary.
	Moroni, Sanpete Co., Sept. 12th, 1873-
DEAR EDITOR:—I take pleasure in inform-
ing you of the welfare of the Society in this
small settlement. During the last six
months we have been under great difficul-
ties through that terrible disease, the small-
pox, which, I am happy to say has now en-
tirely left us. A hundred and thirty took
the disease, only three cases proved fatal,
and I regret to say that our Secretary, Sister
Almira Chase and her two daughters were
the victims. Sister Chase was a very use-
ful member in our Society, but we feel that
our loss is her gain. We do not mourn as
those without hope; for, "blessed are the
dead that die in the Lord," for they rest
from their labors. The time is not far dis-
tant when we shall unite with them again
in a more exalted state of existence. Our
sisters have been doing all they could for
the benefit of the poor and the sick; we
have donated about a hundred dollars to
those that were in need; we have donated
twenty dollars to the Temple at St. George;
we own a one hundred-dollar share in the
Moroni Co-operative Mercantile Institution,
and in the Treasurer's hands, cash and
articles for sale, amounting to one hundred
and forty dollars. We hold our meetings
every two weeks. The sisters are united
in endeavoring to do good. Our meetings
are well attended and we enjoy them, and
wish to be co-workers with the brethren in
helping to build up the Kingdom of God,
that we may gain a Celestial exaltation with
them. Our Sabbath School is very prosper-
ous, the teachers are energetic in their
labors; have also a Juvenile choir, and it
does our hearts good to hear it singing hte
songs of Zion. God bless the Sunday school.
We appreciate your excellent paper and
wish it much prosperity.
	Yours in the Gospel of Truth,
		JANE BAILEY, President,
		CHRISTINA CHRISTENSEN,
		LOUISA LOWRY,		Counselors,
		C. CHRISTENSEN, Secretary,
		DEBORAH IRONS, Treasurer.
	The following is a condensed account of a
meeting held at American Fork, Aug. 29th,
1873. A large Audience was addressed by 
Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Howard, of Salt
Lake City; many sisters attending from
Alpine and Lehi cities. Miss Snow spoke of
the magnitude of the Latter-day work of the
Relief Society. It was to save souls as well
as to relieve the brethren of many cares,
that their time and talents might be
employed in other ways. It was requisite
that ever woman of good moral character
belonging to the Church, should be a mem-
ber of this organization; it was designed to
extend woman's sphere and endow her with
high and noble qualities. All should feel
the responsibilities of being teachers, and
seek to elevate the minds of all with whom
they came in contact, teaching charity in its
broadest sense; chastity, purity of thought,
and economy. Every virtuous woman of
the Church was called to be a member of
these Societies, and being called, was under
condemnation if she neglected to do so. The
speaker wished all to become immensly
rich by holding fast to Eternal things, the
riches of earth would follow. She desired
all to cultivate the Sixth Sense which was
the Spirit of God, and would enable them
to both see and enter the Kingdom of
Heaven. The neglect of the moral training
of children was touched upon. People were
prone to look well to their stock, their
orchards and all worldly affairs, but neglect-
ful of that higher responsibility—the proper
cultivation of the minds of their children.
The Gospel was as much adapted to children
as to the aged. The sisters were desired to
organize a Society of young ladies, to instruct
and encourage them, and it was recom-
mended that the members of this young
society be fitted to fill situations which seem
fit and proper in their sphere, such as clerks,
book keepers, type setters, etc. Miss Snow
was followed with able remarks from Sister
Howard, Bishops L. E. Harrington and
David Evans, and Sister Mary Hindley.
Meeting closed with singing "Oh my Father
thou that dwellest," and prayer by Elder
W. Greewood.
		MRS, MARY HINDLEY, President.
		MRS. E. EASTWOOD, Secretary.
	Extracts from the minutes of the 66th
meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-
operative Retrenchment Associations, held.
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
on September 13th, 1873. President M.
I. Horne being absent, Counselor Mrs. Z. D.
Young Presided. After singing, and prayer
by Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff; minutes of
the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted, and minutes read of meetings held by
the Young Ladies' Association in the 10th
Ward. The meeting, which was large and
attentive, was addressed by sisters Z. D.


Young, B. W. Smith, E. R. Snow, Elizabeth
Barlow, (Prest. of the R. S. at Bountiful,) M
P. Young, Agnes Douglas, (of Payson,) E.
Howard, P. Woodruff and a number of
others. Meeting adjourned for two weeks;
dismissed with singing, and prayer by Mrs.
M. R. Thompson,
			MAGGIE M. GROO, Secretary.

		FRANKLIN, ONEIDA COUNTY,
					September 18th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Society here is trying to keep up with
the times. Quite a number of the sisters
from this place, were at Richmond to hear
Miss E. R. Snow and yourself, and I assure
you we thought ourselves highly paid for
our trip down there, to the meeting, and
back. The object of your visit was an im-
portant one, and deserves the serious atten-
tion of the ladies of Utah. We anticipate
sending one young lady student from this
settlement. I value your little paper very
much, and forward money for the renewal
of my subscription, wishing you every suc-
cess.
	ELIZABETH FOX. Sec. Franklin R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	FRUIT CAKE.—One-half pound of butter,
one-half-pound of brown sugar, three-quar-
ters of a pound of flour, two pounds of
currants, one-half pound of citron, one-half
pound of raisins, five eggs; beat the whites
and yolks separately. Use a little molasses—
and spice to taste.
	A GOOD OMELET.—Take six eggs, one
table-spoonful of flour, one of melted butter,
and a table-spoonful of milk to each egg.
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth.
Mix the yolks, well-beaten with the other
ingredients, whites last, and add salt after
it is in the pan. Grease the frying-pan,
and pour the mixture in a thin layer; turn
one half over upon the other as It thickens,
or roll it up. . Cook to a delicate brown—it
requires close attention. Finely minced or
grated meat stirred into this omelet varies
the dish.
	LEMON TART.—To the grated rind and
the juice of one lemon add a teacupful of
sugar; stir into a teacupful of warm water
one teaspoonful of corn-starch and two finely-
powdered Boston crackers, and add to the
lemon and sugar; whip to a froth the white
of one and the yolks of two eggs. Add
these to the foregoing, stirring briskly, and
pour into a plate lined with a light crust.
While the above is baking in a moderately-
heated oven, whip the remaining white of
egg to a froth and stir in three teaspoonfuls
of powdered sugar. When the tart is done
remove from the oven and spread the beaten
whites over the top; then return to the oven
and brown slightly.
	BEEF-STEAKS, for broiling, should not be
much more than half an inch thick, or they
will be hard on the outside before they are
done through. Pepper but do not salt them
until previous to serving them, or the gravy
will be drawn. Do them over an ardent
fire, and only turn them once. When fried,
the pan should be made hot, then rubbed
over with fat, and the steak put in. A
quick fire is requisite. When done pepper
and salt it, and lay upon the top some pieces
of fresh butter. Remember, whether fried
or broiled, beeksteaks should be done quick-
ly; never suffer them to go to sleep over
the fire.
	FEW housekeepers appreciate the value of
chicken and turkey wings; they use them
to dust furniture and brush up the hearth,
but for washing windows they are of untold
[new column]
worth. There is nothing that equals them;
they clean the corners out easily, and leave
no lint upon the glass. Then for spreading
past on walls and paper there is no inven-
tion that will do the work half as well. Try
them once, and there will be no necessity of
telling people to be sure and save all the
wings.
	TO MAKE SOFT SOAP.—For one barrel of
soap, take thirty pounds of grease, free from
salt, rinds or bits of lean meat, and the lye
from two barrels of good ashes. Put one
quart of lime in the bottom of each barrel of
ashes. Put boiling water on to leach with;
have ready the soap barrel where it is to
stand. When the lye begins to run, melt
the grease in a little lye and pour it in the
barrel. Heat the lye and fill it full, stirring
frequently until cold. I always use the stove
kettle, as that is free from rust, which makes
white cloth yellow. Soap made in this way
will be very light colored and thick, and re-
quires but little labor in making. If the
lye is not strong enough to eat the grease,
boil it awhile.—“Cor. Agricultural Paper.”
	TOMATO SOUP.—For this excellent soup
the proportions are,seven or eight middling-
sized tomatoes, three pints of broth, salt,
pepper, a teaspoonful of pepper-corns, three
cloves, a quarter of a pound of rice, a table-
spoonful of butter, one ounce of sugar, three
slices of bread. The tomatoes are put in
boiling water for a few seconds, taken off
and dropped into cold water, and then skin-
ned. They are put in a saucepan, and set
on a moderate fire with the broth. When
cooked, the whole is turned into a col-
ander and forced through with a potato-
masher, except the tomato seeds; then the
strained juice and pulp are mixed with the
rice; after it has been boiled the butter and
sugar are added. The whole are simmered
about half an hour, and turned into the soup
dish. While it is simmering the slices of
bread are cut in dice and fried in a little
butter, and put in the soup tureen before
turning the mixture therein. Cover it for
a few minutes, and serve.
	PICKLED CAULIFLOWERS.—Take good
white heads, break them into small pieces
and boil for ten minutes in strong salt and
water. Skim out the pieces, which should
be so tender that a splint of broom corn can
be run through the stems. Lay them on a
towel to drain off the water, and when thor-
oughly cold put them into a pickle jar, with
a few whole cloves, allspice, pepper, and
sticks of cinnamon tied up in a cloth. Boil
and skim the vinegar; then pour it directly
over the cauliflowers. If a few beets are
sliced up in the vinegar while boiling, they
will color the cauliflower stalks a bright coral
red, and make them more attractive to the
eye.—“Country Gentleman.”
	WHOOPING COUGH REMEDY.—Take plan-
tain leaves; wash and bruise them well; now
strain through a cloth, and sweeten with
honey; for an adult one tablcspoonful is a
dose.
	INVIGORATING HOUSE PLANTS.—House
plants ought to be stimulated gently once
or twice a week. Rain water, so refreshing
to summer flowers always contains ammo-
nia, which also abounds in all liquid ma-
nures. If you take an ounce of pulverized
carbonate of ammonia, dissolved in one gal-
lon of water, it will make spring water even
more stimulating to your plants than rain
water. Keep the soil in the flower pots
loose.—“Mass. Ploughman.”


﻿THE washerwomen of Detroit are said
to be organizing a trade union to protect
themselves against “Chinese cheap labor.”


[For the EXPONENT.
A WOMAN’S VIEWS ON MARRIAGE.

	“In marriage a man gives everything and
a woman nothing,” I heard a man say the
other day. Now, as a woman, I am going
to tell what I think about it; I think the
gentleman is very much mistaken, who
entertains such an idea as the above. When
a girl is single she may always feel entitled
to an escort; she can visit places of amuse-
ment, dance, walk and enjoy herself socially 
with any respectable gentleman friend. But
when married, according to my idea of man-
ners and morals—which if severe is also safe—
she has no such privileges. If her husband
does not choose to see or hear anything 
attractive, she must stay at home. This
being the case, gentlemen, put it to your-
selves, were it in woman’s power to say to
you after marriage, “you must not go to 
any place of amusement unless I am pleased
to take you,” if you would not fancy you had 
run a risk and made some sacrifice. Yet,
the precious gift of her whole life, the merg-
ing of her existence into that of her hus- 
band’s is not esteemed too great a sacrifice
by a true, loving woman, if she meets with
a fitting return from him whom she has
chosen for a guide and protector. For he
can repay her for all this if he chooses. Not
with houses or gold or ought of worldly
wealth; but with his whole heart, his care
and tender, lover-like attentions. Whether
he has wealth or not, this is the only true
equivalent he can offer, even then, the
faithful, loving wife receives no more than
she bestows.
	If there is a bridegroom who, when he 
holds his bride’s hand, at the altar, clasping
there a true, good woman’s hand, believes
that what he can give her to eat and drink,
and to wear, are the inducements by which
she is persuaded to assume the duties of
wifehood, he is gravely mistaken. The
maiden who seemingly gives him nothing,
and upon whom he promises to bestow “all”
—as he vainly imagines—takes upon herself
the responsibilities of becoming a wife
because she loves him! Because to minister
to his comfort in health or in sickness, to
add to his happiness, to share his joys or
sorrows, to bear any or all burdens common
to the lot of mortals, with him and for him
has become the sacred and cheerful duty 
and pleasure of her life!
	A man may suppose that a wife yields no
privileges on her wedding day, in taking
him to be her “all in all,” no matter what
he may prove to be—and there’s no guessing
at that beforehand. He must be thenceforth,
the only man in the world to her. She
must have no more half sentimental friend-
ships—which are often very dear to femin-
ine hearts—instead of exerting the powers
of her maidenhood’s charms to please all,
she must bear with her the dignity of
a matron; and this is indeed a hard lesson
for some girls to learn.
	Intellectual superiority, a struggle to gain
the ear or the eyes of the world, success in 
some profession, are not requisites to place 
the wife on a level with her husband, as 
his helpmate, the mother of his children
and his home-maker. She stands equal
with him, though his powers of mind like
his bodily strength, may be, in most respects
superior to hers. He may battle with the
world as she may not, but who, among
men can give such truth and tenderness,
and enduring fidelity as this constant wife
will give? This woman, who makes her-
self most man’s equal when she is most
truly a woman! And who can receive noth-
ing at his hands, as his wife, that she
cannot repay!		MRS. MARY TOUT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
		 L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street.
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 1, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	Chicago had a large fire on the 17th ult.
......The Cincinnati “Commercial” leads out
with an editorial in favor of woman suffrage,
entitled “Sex and political Rights.”......
In three years, four hundred lepers were
gathered at the leper settlement of the How-
aiian Islands, on Molokai......Miss Claussen
of Point Reys is the conductor of a dairy on
what is known as the Swedish system........
The fact is strongly evinced that the use of
tobacco, with all its other evils, leads direct
to organic disease......Want of sleep has
been proven to be one of the most prolific
causes of insanity among working people....
Fruit drying is becoming a very important
industry in some portions of California......
The largest deer ever known in San Fran-
cisco was lately killed by a young man
named Frank Thomas. It weighed one
hundred and seventy-six pounds......Te-
hame, California, is crowded with wheat
this season......An album adorned with
diamonds was the gift of the Shah to
Marshal McMahon........A woman in St.
Louis is the owner of one thousand cattle
which she lately assisted in driving from
Texas........California laws give a married
woman the same controll of her property
that an unmarried woman has......An old
soldier named Ralph Morris, who was at the
Battle of Waterloo, and who fought at Cor-
unna under Sir John Moore, has lately been
discovered living in London......In less
than three months, more than thirty women
have been appointed post-mistresses in the
United States......A snake charmer in Paris
lately died from the bite of a viper which
he had beaten and then ordered to kiss
him......Seven pounds of wool per head was
the average of a flock of sheep, this year,
owned by a California farmer......An elderly
lady in Pennsylvania, named Stanton, has
never let the fire go out in her cottage but
one time in twenty-seven years.......A New
York manufacturer says the work girls of
that city are nearly all Irish, with a few
Americans, no Germans, Swedes or Danes.
......The songstress, Patti, is in Paris........A
A contemporary wants to know if this good
globe is not a ball of liquid fire. Not quite,
yet we hope......Salmon color trimmed with
brown is becoming a prevailing fashion......
A late thing in a bridesmaid's dress is a
queer little cap with a long veil attached.....
Shreveport, Louisana, has been so afflicted
with yellow fever, during the past month,
that not enough who were able to stand
could be found to wait on the sick......Horse
cars are denounced as a great nuisance by
the Commission of Police in London, and
the probability is that street railroads will
soon cease to exist there, in the heart of the
city at least......General Charles H. T. Collis,
city solicitor of Philadelphia, brought some
Austrian officers to book, for insulting two
American girls at Vienna......A Milwaukee
lover took two bottles of poison the other
day, because his lady-love refused to take
him. The lady does not regret having said
no......The capital of the New York United
Rolling Stock Company, is placed at $5,000,-
000.........At Savannah, Georgia, the oldest
editor connected with the American press,
Mr. Jacob Lardoza, recently died aged
 ighty-seven years......It has been decided
that the late Duke of Brunswick died of
congestion of the brain......The Italians are
said to have a method of preserving their
dead, by which the bodies are kept in their
natural shape and rendered as hard as stone.
......Nelaton, the great French surgeon, is
reported hopelessly ill......Professor G. H.
Perkins,of the Vermont University gives in-
teresting accounts of the ancient Indian buri-
[new column]
al ground at Swanton. One body has been
discovered which was buried standing erect,
and another with the head down......The
Empress Eugenie is said to be growing
disspirited......Ned Buntline, the novelist,
is recommended by a New York paper as
being fit for an insane asylum......One of the
Siamese Twins has been summoned to sit on
a jury. The other is invited to accompany
him......Lord Aberdare, is the title given to
Mr. Bruce, lately raised to the Peerage......
The King of Denmark has made Prince
Arthur a Knight of the Order of the Ele-
phant......The Emperor of China offers a
salary of £2,400 per annum for a head gar
dener......Two of President Grant’s sons
accompany a son of Speaker Blaine on a
pedestrian trip over the Aalleghanies to
Washington, Pa., Mr. Blaine’s old home.....
No British Sovereign has visited the He-
brides since James the VI., of Scotland, but
it is expected that Queen Victoria will visit
the Isle of Skye while on her Highland
tour.......A Baptist minister in Indiana,
married in two weeks after the death of his
wife, because, finding no word of comfort
for the widower in the Bible, he took it for
granted that the Lord would not waste
sympathy over him and he must find conso-
lation for himself......A new grain has been
discovered in Oregon and the people are
puzzled as to what it shall be called.......An
account of a combat between two large Rocky
Mountain eagles forms an interesting
paragraph in a late San Francisco paper.


﻿IMPROVEMENTS.

	It will be gratifying to the friends of the EX-
PONENT to learn that a standing committee,
called a Committee of Consultation, has been
organized to act in promoting the interests of
the paper, and rendering it still more valuable
as a representative of the ladies of Utah.
	A primary meeting of the committee was
held at the residence of President George A.
Smith, on the 28th ult., when Miss Cornelia
Horne was nominated and appointed to act as
Business Manager; Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Lu L. Dalton,
Mrs. Anna Ivins, Mrs. Minerva Snow, Special
Correspondents; and Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs.
Margaret P. Young, Mrs. Lily Staines, Mrs.
Sarah Smith, Mrs. Mary J. Thompson, Mrs.
Margaret Steel, Mrs. Elvira Barney, Mrs.
Amanda Kimball and Miss Sarah E. Russell,
Local Agents.
	These arrangements are not intended to dis-
courage others, in the least, from contributing
in any way to the interests of the EXPONENT.
The invitation as given in its first issue, for the
women of Utah to represent themselves, is still
extended to all; and other special correspond-
ents will also be added to the above list from
time to time, as may be deemed wisdom.
	The names of the Committee of Consultation,
to which other additions may also be made,
are as follows: Miss Eliza R. Snow, President;
Mrs. Mary I. Horne, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs.


﻿Z. D. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. W. East,
Miss M. E. Cook, Mrs. S. M. Heywood, Mrs. E.
Howard, Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Priscilla
Staines, Mrs. Needham of the 8th Ward, Mrs.
Agatha A. Pratt and Mrs. Hattie C. Morris,
members, and Miss Minnie Horne, Secretary.
	Occasional meetings of the committee will be
called by order of the President, as may be
deemed necessary, and Agents for the EXPO-
NENT will be appointed in every settlement
throughout the Territory.
	This is another step toward carrying out the
counsel given by President Young, in relation
to the pursuits and employments of women,
and we hope to find new interest and energy
awakened in our many friends to aid in this
direction.


MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS.
	No truth is more patent than that one so
much talked of, in which it is shown that the
influence which the words and examples of
mothers bear over the minds of their children,
affect, to a very great'extent, the entire forma-
tion of their characters.
	The lady must have been a model wife and
mother, who was thus pleasingly complimented
by her husband, when he was asked what he
intended to do with his daughters: "intend,"
he replied, “to apprentice them to their moth-
er, that they may learn the art of improving
time, be fitted to become wives, mothers, heads
of families and useful members in society.”
All that a mother is herself, and much more,
she may help each one of a large family of
daughters to become. And though it is not
always the case, that ingenuous, intellectual,
ambitious and thrifty wives prepare their
daughters to become like helpmeets—yet good
mothers will raise good daughters, and a good
daughter can hardly fail of making a good wife.
	The great difficulty generally appears to be,
that mothers do not occupy sufficient time and
thought, in instructing their daughters, in the
ways of life, that they may become themselves
such wives and mothers as will render homes
and communities blessed.
	It is a serious fact that although the life or
death, the welfare or ruin of offspring depends
on the treatment which it receives, scarcely a
word of instruction, in relation to this impor-
tant subject, is ever transmitted to the consider-
ation of those who are by-and-by to become pa-
rents. Contemplate the situation of the young 
mother, who, but a few years ago, was at school,
treasuring in her memory only such words and
sentences as she found in her grammar, spelling
book and reader; and using her reasoning pow-
ers only to solve mathematical problems. The
intervening time she has, most likely, passed
in the practice of music, fancy work or some-
thing of less importance. Or perhaps she has
taken a position in the kitchen, where she has
learned to wash dishes, and, possibly, to cook a
meal of victuals. No thought of the graver re-
sponsibilities of maternity has been entertained;
she, consequently, has as little understanding
of the proper care of an infant as it is possible
for a person of common intellect to have. And
in her over-anxiety to keep her child from all
ill, she is as liable to smother it with too much
wrapping, or injure it by feeding too much or
too often, or the wrong kind of food, as she is
to do it grievous injustice through thoughtless- 
ness and neglect.
	Yet, in all this ignorance, an unfolding hu-
man character is committed to her charge, the
molding of which could but be imperfectly ac-
complished with the aid of the best knowledge
and skill a mother can posses.
It is asserted that parents should raise one


WOMAN'S EXPONENT				


family in order to learn how to raise one prop-
erly. If this be true, how necessary is it that
parents give their children all the benefit of
their experience that it is possible for them to
impart. But some mothers never seem to learn
what the position they hold in the world is, or
ought to be. A bitterly painful remark was
made by the unhappy husband of a vain,
thoughtless, gaudy slattern. He said: “It is
hard to say it, but if my girls are to grow up
good for anything, they must be sent out of the
way of their mother’s example.”
	No mother should allow such to be truthfully
said, or thought of her. If she would see her
daughters ornaments in society, let her set ex-
amples worthy of their imitation.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	A letter, written by a young lady of this city
(at present one of a trio of wives belonging to
one household) to a relative residing in Ver-
mont, has been courteously handed in, from
which we take the following: Sometimes, in
my anxiety to see you, I feel that I could almost
fly to you. My only hope is, that you will be-
come convinced of the truth of “Mormonism.”
I know you are honest in heart, and we believe
that all such will, eventually, embrace the
truth.
	As for polygamy, you would not feel about it
as you do, if you looked upon the principle in
its purity as we do. You speak of mistresses or
concubines. We do not believe in a man’s liv-
ing with women as wives, only by right and
lawful marriage, any more than you do. But
if you believe in the Bible, you must believe
that the Lord blessed and favored men who
practiced polygamy anciently. Besides, He
commanded it in certain instances. And He
said that in nothing did King David sin, except
in the case of Uriah the Hitite. I cannot see
anything corrupt in polygamy, only as it is
viewed from a corrupt standpoint, as most of
the world view it.
	My husband has another wife, and he took
her with my sanction; not but I am a woman,
and have jealous feelings, if I would allow them
to predominate. But our religion teaches us to
make our own will subservient to that of the
Lord, whom, we most assuredly believe, has
commanded this practice among His people.
Since I have been living in it, I have greater
proofs of its divine origin than ever before. For
I find by seeking the Spirit of God that I can
be happy. Now, I contend that if it did not
belong to the truth, there would be nothing
that could make us feel happy in it.  I could
not endure to have my husband keep a mistress,
any more than you could endure such a thing
yourself. But I cannot see why Christendom
should think a plurality of wives an abomina-
tion now, any more than in ancient times.
	I would like to have the privilege of preach-
ing you a real Gospel sermon, and I almost
know you would believe the truth.
	If the former day Saints had need to repent
of their sins, and be baptized for the remission
thereof, why should not the same be required
of us, in order that we may be saved in the
kingdom of God? "Jesus said, except a man be
born of water and of the Spirit, he can in no
wise enter into the kingdom of Heaven.” And
that declaration was not confined to the people
of His day. He also set the pattern by going
down into the water, and being baptized by
John.
	How my heart would swell with joy if I could
see you put away prejudice, and investigate
this work with open honesty! If you do not
feel right about it, go to the Lord and ask Him
in faith, believing, and you will receive a testi-
mony for yourself.				M.A.F.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A PROMINENT feature in the present Territo-
rial Fair will be  a competition for the best
horses for speed and draught.
	ON THE 29th ult. another company of emi-
grant Saints arrived in this city, having trav-
eled from Liverpool under the presidency of
Bishop Fairbanks, of Payson.
	TO-MORROW THE Territorial Fair opens, in
the building and on the grounds of the 13th
Ward Assembly Rooms. A pleasant and lively
time is anticipated by the participants.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre opens this evening
under its new management, the famous comedy
of “School for Scandal”—Sheridan’s—having
been selected for the occasion, with a fine cast
of characters. A brilliant run may be expected.
	THE PROPOSED grand Sunday School jubilee
has been postponed till next spring or summer,
on account of the lateness of the season, and
that more time may be had for the preparation
of the original pieces to be sung on that occa-
sion.
	THE FIRST National Bank of Utah, in conse-
quence of an excitement among the depositors,
caused by reports of the failures in New York,
was obliged to close its doors recently, for a
short time; but we understand that it has sus-
tained no losses, and is perfectly solvent.
	THE “DESERET News” offers the following
compliment: The lady compositors, who are at
work in the west upper room of the new build-
ing in the Tithing Office yard, are making ex-
cellent progress. They number half a dozen and
some of them already do very creditable work.
	SEVERAL QUARRELS between women in dif-
ferent parts of this city, have lately been noticed
by the daily papers. This is shameful, and is
becoming too frequent. Women of no better
bringing up, or understanding, should be visited
by teachers of morality, and taught principle
in some form.
	DURING THE past few months, three infant
children have been called by death from the
family of Mr. M. B. Shipp, of the 11th Ward,
in this city. The death of the latest, a little
daughter, occurred on the 29th ult. The sym-
pathies of numerous friends are extended to the
bereaved household, and, it is to be most sin-
cerely hoped, that the grim destroyer will enter
there no more.
	NEXT MONDAY, the 6th inst., the general
fall Conference of the Latter-day Saints con-
venes for the forty-third time. Many people
from the country will be in town; and again we
announce, for the benefit of our friends, any of
whom we should be pleased to see, that the
office of WOMAN'S EXPONENT is on West Tem-
ple Street, one block South of the Tabernacle
block, opposite the City Market.
	AMONG THE recent deaths of children which
have occurred in this city, one of the most
lamentable recorded, is that of little Ellie Con-
rad, a three year old grandchild of President B.
Young. The little girl was visiting with her
mother at her grandmother's house, on the 26th
ult., where she found and eat a small piece of
cheese which had been placed for the destroying
of mice, with strychnine upon it, and which
resulted in the death of the child a short time
afterwards.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE with pleasure, the receipt
of a polite invitation from the young ladies of
the 10th Ward Retrenchment Association, to
attend a Grand Calico Ball, which will be given
by them on the evening of Tuesday, the 7th
inst., in the new meeting-house of that Ward.
The proceeds of the ball will be given to help
defray the expenses of the building. Price o
tickets, $1.00 each. We are requested to say that
a cordial invitation is extended to all the mem-
bers of the Retrenchment Associations. Mary
H. Tout, Mary A. Kedington and Nettie Poll
are the names of the Committee, and Miss M.
M. H. Paul is Secretary. We anticipate for
the young ladies a pleasing success, and for all
who attend a very enjoyable evening.
	THE "LATTER-day Saints Millenial Star,"
published in Liverpool by Albert Carrington,
has for some months past been presenting to its
readers the initials of the name of the popular
and favorite Salt Lake comedian, Mr. John C.Graham, under interesting articles of a genuine
sermonizing character. Now that the Salt Lake
Theatre is to be newly opened, imagination
contrasts the present occupations of that gentle-
man with the position he held a year ago. And
fancy recalls, with the thought of his eager
perusal of the news from Utah, some odd expres-
sions in "Three fast young men," and the won-
der arises, might not his memory casually revert
to "Now I'll tell you what it is, boys, I want-
to go home!"


﻿HOW THE BLESSINGS COME.

	We are some times led to consider that
good nature is only the better part of good
sense. For so much of what is called fate
and fortune, depends upon the manner
people have of viewing things.
	Not long since we heard a young woman
in conversation with her brother, to whom
she remarked, that she did not know why
it was so, but it seemed, the Lord had, all
her life seen fit to bless and prosper her.
It was not her superior managemennt, she
said, but some how, there was always some-
thing for her to be grateful for and rejoice
over. The Lord favored her so greatly,
almost more than any one she knew. The
brother affectionately replied that the grand
chief cause of all the pleasantness of her
life, was that she possessed one of the
sweetest dispositions in the world, and the
happy faculty of knowing how to make the
best of every thing, and finding blessings in
numerous little things that many others
would never think of noticing as such.
	There was enough of sincerity and warmth
in the tones of the generous, manly voice,
to gladden a heart as susceptible of kindness
as the lady’s of whom we write, had not the
words themselves been so full of encourage-
ment and loving appreciation. And she
felt it. A joyous, grateful light came into
her eyes and diffused itself over her face.
There was a little blessing offered, she
accepted it.
	Daily and hourly, are such trifling gems of
worth scattered about us. And we may,
by gathering up, and carefully preserving
them, be constantly blessed; or we may let
these little beams of sunlight pass by us
unheeded, and be always miserable and anx-
ious, looking away into the future for great
lights that perchance may never present
themselves. It is but a collection of many
tiny rays that forms the most glorious rain-
bow. It is likewise a treasured store of
daily blessings which makes a life continu-
ally and greatly blest.
								L.


THE fiber of a single silk cocoon is 1,520
feet in length.


CRANBERRIES may be profitably cultivated
on swampy ground that would otherwise be
useless. At Cape Cod, where the cranberry
culture is carried to its fullest extent,
swampy lands, that were worthless a few
years ago, have now a saleable value of $800
and $1,200 per acre.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE FAVORED SCHOLAR.

		    BY JOHN ROGERS.

	Oh, rash young man! to keep a school,
	And think to hold your idle rule
	O'er the enchantress by your side,
	So graceful in her maiden pride,
	So piquant in her fresh array,––
	Like an incarnate Summer's day,
	With hanging curls, and parted lips
	And rose between her finger-tips,
	And all Love's ready witchery hid
	'Neath each averted, drooping lid.

	Half-teased, half-pleased, he sits up there,
	And holds the slate with patient air,
	Showing the oft-repeated sum,
	Waiting to hear the answer come,––	But she knows more––her instincts tell her,
	With what a rein she holds the "feller,"––
	And tho' the answer lingers now
	Under her broad New England brow,
	She's in no haste, ah, no! not she,
	To solve the ancient mystery;
	'Tis pleasant, standing by his side
	In girlish fun and maiden pride,
	Just conscious of her latent power,
	A queen––for one brief morning hour!

	The lilacs in the sultry air
	May droop their purple clusters fair,
	The unused ink-horn idle lie,
	The rusty pen grow stiff and dry,
	While, heedless of the boy below
	Who boldly mocks the pretty show,
	With reckless impudence of wit,
	Sets comrades in a laughing fit;
	Heedless of aught and all save her,
	Watching to see her eyelids stir––
	The master of the village school
	Learns to submit to Cupid's rule!


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	About Rag Carpets.—Not long since, while cut-
ting a piece of rag carpeting to suit the rooms for
which it was designed, I was much annoyed by its
“propensity” to unravel, wasting at least an inch
at each end, which to my economical mind was not
at all pleasant. So I "set my wits to work" to
devise a better way, and have found that by stitch-
ing it on the sewing machine, on each side of and
very close to the dividing line, or where it is to be
cut off, no wastage will occur, and the edges may
then be bound with narrow binding as other car-
peting. Some ladies whom I know supply their
weavers with old yarn which is woven in at stated
lengths, according to the size of the room which
the carpet is intended for. As the yarn will not
unravel easily, it may be cut there, and hemmed or
bound, as preferred 

Beefsteak.—A method of broiling equal in every
respect to the gridiron, excepting that it lacks the
smoky taste, is this: Set your spider on the stove,
and let it get smoking hot. Put in no butter nor
any kind of grease. Have your meat previously
prepared by trimming off all  pieces of bone, gland;
superfluous suet and tissues that will bind the edge
and make it curl up. Lay it very carefully and
smoothly in the spider. It will stick fast at first,
but as soon as it is browned, can be loosened with
a knife. Sprinkle a little salt on the upper sur-
face, and turn it over. Let the other side brown
the same as the first. Have a platter warmed,
lay the meat carefully upon it, without besmearing
the edges, dress with butter and pepper, and send
it to the table hot. By this process you have as
crisp and brown a surface, with the juice retained,
as well as by broiling, and the additional advan-
tage that the inevitable drippings are saved, and
can be converted into gravy.

	Wash For Buildings.—The following is a most
excellent, cheap and durable wash for wooden fen-
ces and buildings. It owes its durability cheifly to
the white vitriol which hardens and fixes the wash:
	Take a barrel and slack one bushel of freshly
burned lime in it, by covering the lime with boil-
ing water. After it is slacked, add cold water
enough to  bring it to the consistency of good white-
wash. Then dissolve in water, and add one pound
of white vitriol (sulphrate of zinc) and one quart of
fine salt. To give this wash a cream color, add
one half pound of yellow ochre (in powder). To
give it a fawn look, add a pound of yellow ochre
and one-fourth of a pound of Indian red. To make
the wash a handsome gray stone color, add one half
pound of French blue and one-fourth pound of
Indian red; a drab will be made by adding one half
pound of burnt sienna, and one-fourth pound
Venetian red. For brick or stone, instead of one
bushel of lime, use half a bushel of lime and half
bushel of hydraulic cement.
	Be careful with needles.—Many persons have
experienced years of suffering, and not a few have
lost their lives on account of carelessness with
needles. Needles are very useful articles, but are
extremely dangerous when dropped about the floors,
carpets and ruggs, or when carelessly left sticking
in unfinished work.
	About three years ago a woman, while wringing
out a cloth with which she had been wiping the
floor, broke a needle off in her hand. She suf-
fered extremely; and the piece of needle is yet in
her hand, surgical aid having failed to discover it.
A young lady sat down and inclined back against a
piece of unfinished work which she herself had
placed on the back of the chair, and broke the
needle off in her arm. The arm swelled exceed-
ingly and was very painful, but the needle could
not be extracted. A worthy citizen and personal
friend of the writer of this item, as he was about
to retire for the night, stepped on a needle which
had lodged in a rug by the bedside and broke it off
in his heel. He was compelled to undergo a sur-
gical operation in order to obtain relief from the
pain which was caused by this seemingly insignifi-
cant wound. A man in Somerville, Mass., recent-
ly, while eating chicken pie felt, as he supposed, a
small bone lodge in his throat. He applied to a
surgeon who extracted the offensive agent, which
proved to be a rusty needle. It is supposed that
the needle was carelessly dropped into the food
which the chicken ate, and that it worked its way
into the flesh of the chicken and came near des-
troying the life of the man in question. Numer-
ous other cases might be mentioned, but these are
deemed sufficient to forcibly impress upon the minds
of the incautious the great importance of being
careful about needles.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	NEURALGIA.—Neuralgia and toothache
are sometimes speedily relieved by applying
to the wrist a quantity of bruised or grated
horseradish.
	CHARCOAL FOR WOUNDS.—A correspon-
dent of the Scientific American says:—“The
best simple remedy I have found for surface
wounds, such as cuts, abrasions of the skin,
&c., is charcoal. Take a live coal from the
stove, pulverize it, apply it to the wound
and cover the whole with a rag. The char-
coal absorbs the fluids secreted by the
wound, and lays the foundation of the scab;
it also prevents the rag from irritating the
flesh, and it is antiseptic.
	THUMB-SUCKING.—I have observed that
a peculiar and rather common deformity of
the chest is caused by the habit of sucking
the thumb in infancy and early childhood.
The weight of the arm on the thorax of the
child during sleep produces depression of
the ribs in the line occupied by the arm
when the thumb is placed in the mouth.
As this is a very important effect of “thumb-
sucking” never hitherto pointed out, I think
it desirable to place this thing on record for
the benefit of other observers.—Brit. Med,
Journal.
	WHOOPING COUGH.—A writer in the
Medical Journal, London, states that in
cases of whooping cough in the last stage—


that is, after the third week—he has had
one ounce of the strongest liquid ammonia
put into a gallon of water in an open pan,
and the steam kept up by means of half a
brick made red hot throughout, and put in-
to the boiling water containing the ammonia,
the pan being placed in the middle of a
room, into which the patients were brought
as the ammonia steam was passing off. This
method, he says, was used in the evening,
before bed-time, and it proved so efficacious
in abating the spasmodic attack, and after
three or four days terminating the malady,
as to establish, beyond a doubt, the value
of this mode of inhaling ammonia as a thera-
peutic agent in tranquilizing the nervous
system in the whooping cough.
	BREAKFAST BEFORE WORK.—Always
take breakfast before leaving the house in
the morning. This will prevent an easy
and early tiring, while the testimony of ob-
servant farmers of education corroborates
the teaching of the best medical minds,
that by strengthening the stomach and
sending invigorating nutriment to the
whole system, weakened by the long fast
of the night, there is generated a power of
resistence against the onsets of disease from
the cold of winter and from the malarias
and miasms of summer, especially in flat,
damp, and luxuriant soils, which can not be
adequately expressed in language; while
both experience and experiment have com-
bined to show that, by the simple expedient
of an early breakfast, individuals and fami-
lies and neighborhoods have exempted
themselves from that scourge of all new
countries “fever and ague,” especially if
followed by a supper a little before sun-
down, from May to November.


WIFE, MISTRESS AND LADY.

Whoever marries for love takes a wife,
who marries for fortune takes a mistress,
who marries for a position takes a lady.
You are loved by your wife, regarded by
your mistress, and tolerated by your lady.
You have a wife for yourself, a mistress for
your house and friends, a lady for the world
and society. Your wife will agree with you,
your mistress will rule you, your lady will
manage you. Your wife will take care of
your household, your mistress of your house,
your lady of appearances. If you are sick,
your wife will nurse you, your mistress will
visit you, your lady will inquire after your
health. You take a walk with your wife, a
ride with your mistress, and go to a party
with your lady. Your wife will share your
grief, your mistress your money, your lady
your debts. If you are dead, your wife will
weep, your mistress lament, and your lady
wear mourning. Which will you have?


A STENTORIAN VOICE.—In the Grecian
army it was usual to have three men in each
battalion to communicate the commands of
the officers to the men—of these one car-
ried a standard, and another a trumpet. But
in the din and confusion of battle, when
neither signal could be seen nor trumpet
heard, the third man (who for this purpose
was the strongest in the army) communica-
ted the commands by word of mouth. Ho-
mer relates of one of these men, Stentor
by name, that he shouted as loud as fifty
other men. Hence a man with a powerful
voice is said to possess the voice of Stentor,
or a Stentorian voice.


PETITIONS for Woman Suffrage, to which
were attached 300,000 signatures, have been
presented to the British Parliament.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM CACHE.

			RICHMOND, Sept. 9th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Perhaps a few items from this place
would not be uninteresting to your readers.
	Sunday the 24th ult., a boy named Abra-
ham Eskelson was struck by lightning on the
right shoulder, which passed over his bowels,
down his left leg severely bruising him; his
left heel was so badly torn that Dr. Ormsby,
who was telegraphed for, considered ampu-
tation necessary. He died on the 27th.
The same day on which the above stated
accident occurred, Bp. Lunt and wife were
thrown from a wagon, his collar bone was
broken, and her face considerably bruised.
Dr. Ormsby jr. attended. The Sunday fol-
lowing, a boy named David Adams, who
lived across the street from Bro. Eskelson's,
was struck dead by lightning, and five
other boys were knocked down, but none
of them were injured. I have heard of
several other accidents by lightning having
recently occurred in this county. There is
considerable sickness in this place, but
through the blessings of God, very few
deaths. 
						P. A. M.


[Column 1]
	RULES OF CONVERSATION FOR
		    YOUNG LADIES.

	Young ladies are generally so ardent and
so incautious, that whatever is in their
thoughts and feelings will find vent in their
conversation; the vain, the proud, the envi-
ous, the suspicious, will each exhibit in it
her prevailing thought, and nothing but a
diligent “keeping of the heart” can correct
the evil.
	Supposing our young lady friends, then,
to be on their guard against the graver
errors of the tongue, such as direct false-
hood, misrepresentation, calumny, insinua-
tion, violations of confidence, and the like,
we would warn them against a few of the
lesser sins of young people, which, from
their very commonness, might escape their
notice in the earlier stages of self-discipline;
such as the love of ridicule, the spirit of ex-
aggeration, &c., which are so apt to pervade
the conversation of inexperienced girls, and
are often indulged in by them, without a
suspicion of their real nature and tendency.
The practice of turning into ridicule what-
ever does not please her in the appearance
or conduct of others, too often gains a
young lady the reputation of being a very
agreeable companion, and her lively sallies
are mistaken for wit; whereas, there is no
faculty of the mind, that can be cultivated
at a less expense of wit and wisdom; than
that of ridicule, and none that finds more
ready auditors; for the silliest can join in the
laugh which it raises, and the wisest can
hardly resist its infection.
	A sense of the ridiculous, is an original
faculty of the human mind; it is much
keener in some individuals than in others;
but it is like some plants, which, though
wholesome in themselves, are never admit-
ted into our gardens, because they spread
too rapidly, and root out what is far more
valuable. The love of ridicule grows by
indulgence, till it destroys the power of
discrimination, lessens the sensibility to
others’ pain, disturbs the balance of justice,
blunts all noble and generous feelings, and
gives a general taint of coarseness to the
whole character. There is nothing too inno-
cent or unobtrusive to be food for this mor-
bid love of fun; nothing too valuable or too
beautiful to be viewed in this false light;
nothing too high, and nothing too low, to

[Column 2]
minister to this diseased appetite; and the
pain which it often inflicts upon those who
are its innocent objects, is a small evil com-
pared with the immense injury it does to
the mind that entertains it. Besides the
evils already enumerated, the love of ridi-
cule indisposes the mind to find pleasure in
admiring, which is robbing it of one of its
noblest attributes. If you would taste the
full happiness of admiring all that is good,
and true, and beautiful, in the beings who
surround you, avoid the practice of ridicu-
ling them: for these cannot exist together.
	Equally common with the love of ridicule
is the spirit of exaggeration. How many
persons, who would be shocked at the idea
of telling a deliberate falsehood, yet daily
violate truth by exaggerated statements and
extravagant expressions. This fault often
shows itself in childhood, and has its origin
in the activity of the imagination, joined to
an imperfect knowledge of language; where
it is not early corrected, it grows with the
growth and strengthens with the strength,
and becomes one of the most incurable mala-
dies of the mind. By some, it is suddenly
assumed, as a means of making themselves
agreeable to their companions, or by way of
equalling them in their style of conversa-
tion. Now we would earnestly beg those
who are voluntarily adopting this habit of
speech, as they would learn an accomplish-
ment, to avoid it whilst it is yet in their
power, and to regard it in its true light, as
a sin against their fellow-beings and against
their own natures. It is a sin against our
fellow-creatures, because it lessens the con-
fidence necessary to social intercourse, and
because it leads to misrepresentation and
injustice. It is a sin against our own natures,
because it deadens the conscience, lessens
the reverence for truth, blunts that nice
perception by which we were intended to
see things as they really are, and accustoms
the mind to entertain distorted and inflated
visions of its own creating.
			[TO BE CONTINUED.]


﻿A HINT TO LOVERS OF FLOWERS.
A most beautiful and easily attained show
of evergreens may be had by a very simple
plan, which has been found to answer re-
markably well on a small scale. If geranium
branches, taken from luxuriant and healthy
trees, be cut as for slips, and immersed in
soap-water, they will, after drooping for a
few days, shed their leaves, put forth new
ones, and continue in finest vigor all winter.
By placing a number of bottles thus filled in
a flower basket, with moss to conceal the
bottles, a show of evergreen is easily insured
for the whole winter. All the different
varieties of the plant being used, the various
shapes and colors of the leaves blend into a
beautiful effect. They require no fresh
water.—“Floral Cabinet.”


﻿The theory of morality and religion
spread out in the Gospel, is not yet compre-
hended but by a few of the highest minds of
earth—“We aver.”—Neither will it be
while man seeks to destroy man.


﻿Boston School Committees are setting their
faces against presents from pupils to teach-
ers. It is an excellent movement, composed
as our public schools are of children of every
race and from all ranks. Such presents are
given by subscription, and a sum that would
be no tax on a rich man’s son might im-
poverish the child of a poor widow. The
custom leads to favoritism in schools and
educates the mind in favor of bribery and
corruption in later life.


FLOWERS.

	Happiness and peace flourish where
justice and reason govern.
	Never make a remark at the expense of
another; it is meanness.
	We should use the past as an oracle whose
voice should guide our actions in the future.
	"Moderation is the silken string run-
ning through the pearl chain of all virtues."
	The flowers of the soul, born of the sun-
shine of the heart, fill heaven with boquets
which never fade.
	Never part for a day without loving words
to think of during absence; it may be that
you will not meet again in life.
	Pleasure is perfect only when it har-
monizes with out permanent interests; no
delight can be enduring which interferes
with duty.
	Many speak the truth when they say that
they despise riches and  preferment possess-
ed by others.
	There is no policy like politeness, and a
good manner is the best thing in the world,
either to get a good name or to supply the
want of it.
	True religion shows its influence in every
part of our conduct; it is like the sap of a 
living tree, which penetrates the most
distant boughs.
	Learn to understand and properly respect
yourself, and you will know, without study-
ing farther, how to treat every body and
every thing around you.
	It is one of the first effects of prosperity
to make a man a vortex instead of a foun-
tain; so that, instead of throwing out, he
learns only to draw in.
	The difference between honor and honesty
seems to be chiefly the motive. The mere
honest man does that from duty which the
man of honor does for the sake of character.
	Witty sayings are as easily lost as the
pearls slipping off a broken string but a
word of kindness is seldom spoken in vain.
It is a seed which, even dropped by chance,
springs up into a flower.
	Nothing really succeeds which is not
based on reality; sham, in a large sense, is
never successful; in the life of the indi-
vidual as in the more comprehensive life of
the State, pretension is nothing and power
is everything.
	One may live as a conqueror, or a king, or
a magistrate, but he must die a man. The
bed of death brings every human being to
his pure individuality, to the intense contem-
plation of that deepest and most solemn of
all relations—the relation between the crea-
ture and his Creator.
	Childhood is like a mirror, catching and
reflecting images all around it. An impi-
ous or profane thought uttered by a parent's
lips may operate on a young heart like a
careless spray of water thrown upon a
polished steel, staining it with rust, which
no after-scouring can efface.
	One of the strong consolations which the
true Christian enjoys is derived from the
belief that an all-wise and merciful Provi-
dence is continually watching over him, and
directing the course of his temporal affairs,
in such a manner as shall make them all
ultimately work together for his good.


Squire—“Why, Pat, what are you doing
standing by the wall of a public house,
I thought you were a teetotaler.” Pat—
“Yes, yer honor; I'm just listenin’ to them
impenitent boys drinkin inside!”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	A young lady recently married in Eng-
land received a magnificent bracelet with
the word "Mizpah" in rubies, emeralds,
diamonds and sapphires. The literal inter-
pretation is: "The Lord watch between
thee and me when we are absent one from
another." A more fitting motto for a happy
couple commencing life cannot well be con-
ceived.
	Bismarck recently showed some visitors
over his house, and pointing to a desk in
the Princes' room told them his wife, as
they might observe, kept the cash. He had
from the beginning entrusted her with the
charge of his money affairs while he attend-
ed to politics, and he would advise every
married man to do the same taking no more
than his wife gave him.
	Among the characteristics of woman, is
that sweet, motherly love,  which na-
ture has gifted her; it is almost indepen-
dent of cold reason, and wholly removed
from all selfish hope of reward. Not because
it is lovely, does a mother love her child,
but because it is a loving part of herself—
the child of her heart, a fraction of her own
nature. Therefore does she yearn over its
wailings; her heart beats quicker at its joy;
her blood flows most softly through her veins
when the breast at which it drinks knits
it to her.—Herder.
	An interesting anecdote is related of a
large dog kept in Algiers by Miss Emily
Napier, daughter of Sir William Napier.
This dog was sent every morning to fetch
bread from the baker's and regularly brought
home twelve rolls in a basket. At last it was
observed that for several mornings there
were only eleven rolls in the basket; and,
on watching the dog, he was found to stop
on his way and bestow one roll on a poor,
sick and starving lady-dog; hidden, with her
puppies, in a corner, on the road from the
shop. The baker was then instructed to
put thirteen rolls in the basket, after which
the dog delivered the twelve faithfully for
a few days, and then left all the thirteen in
the basket—the token, as it proved, that his
sick friend was convalescent, and able to
dispense with the charity.
	The observance of the following particu-
-lars seems to be essential to the intelligent
comprehension, not only of the Bible, but
any other book: First, ascertain who is the
person speaking; second, who is the person
spoken to; third, what are the circumstan-
ces under which the words were spoken,
and fourth, what was the obvious purpose
for which they were spoken or written.
All these particulars may be generally glean-
ed from a careful reading of the context.
This rule is so reasonable that it is universally
applied in reading books of men, and even
business and social correspondence; and by
the neglect of this common principle in the
reading of the Bible the gravest blunders
have been committed; and if, in the hands
of scoffers and imbeciles, has been made to
"prove everything" and to "contradict it-
self." A gentleman of my acquaintance,
in conversation with a person who read his
Bible in this desultory way—turning and
twisting it like a kaleidoscope—remarked
that, by his interlocutor's mode of reading
the Scriptures, it could be proven from them
that he ought to commit suicide. "How so?"
was the response. "Why," said the first,
"do you not read, 'and Judas went out and
hanged himself!' and do you not read also
'go thou and do likewise'?"


DIVERSIONS.
	A GUSHING Miss—The Mississippi.
	A COOL request—Please pass the ice.
	SOMEBODY defines flirtation to be atten-
tion without intention.
	A WOMAN'S modesty is like her color—ex-
ceedingly becoming it it is not put on.
	WHY do women talk less in February 
than in any other month? Because it is the
shortest month of the year.
	"MISS C—" said a gentleman one eve-
ning, "why are ladies so fond of officers?"
"How stupid!" replied Miss C—; "is it not
natural and proper that a lady should like a
good offer, sir?"
	TRAVELER (registering)—John Smith and
lady. Hotel clerk—"All right, sir, put you
in 114, the lady in 94." Traveler—"But
the lady is my wife, sir." Clerk—"Then
why didn't you say so?"
	WESTERN dealers in butter grade it as
"wool grease, cart crease, soap grease, va-
riegated, tessaleted cow-grease, boarding-
house breakfast, inferior tub, common tub,
medium roll, good roll, and gilt-edged roll."
	AN old veteran was relating his exploits
to a crowd of boys, and mentioned having
been in five engagements. "That's noth-
ing," broke in a little fellow, "my sister
Agnes has been engaged eleven times!"
	A YOUNG blacksmith wrote his advertise-
nent; stating that all orders in his business
would be promptly executed; but it came
out, "All others in this business will be
promptly executed." On seeing this fear-
ful notice, an old blacksmith threw up his
hands and exclaimed: "Has it come to this,
after thirty years of honest toil!"
	AT an exhibition of amateur theatricals,
when the Richard III of the evening cried,
"A horse! a horse! My kingdom for a 
horse!" a would-be wag called out, "Wouldn't
a jackass do just as well?" "Certainly," re-
sponded the actor; "please step up her im-
mediately." The interrupter hastily re-
tired.
	WHEN the train draws up at Stamford
five minutes for refreshments, it is easy to
distinguish the experienced traveler from
the rest. He has already got out on the plat-
form, and is either on the bottom step or
close enough to it. Just as soon as the
speed of the train becomes less than he can
make he springs off and dashes madly for
the saloon door, through it and up to the
counter, giving his order for coffee while
moving, and snatching up the right article
the first time. He knows just how much
time is required to make five minutes, and
when it is expired he is out on the platform
pickinghis teeth and talking about real es-
tate. Alas, for the inexperienced traveler
such is not his record. He is inside the car
when it stops, with twenty persons ahead of
him. He jumps down on the platform in
time to see the mass surging into the door
and just then it suddenly strikes him that
he may be too late and under this inspira-
tion he throws himself into the struggling
gang. He doesn't reach the table. He and
the other inexperienced travelers form the
outside line, and shout their orders through
the openings and receive what is handed
them with thankfulness and what dexterity
they can muster. Such a man will perspire,
and choke, and paw and jaw during the en-
tire five minutes, and in that time may get
down two-thirds of a sandwich, one-third of
a piece of custard pie, and more or less of
[Column 2]
the coffee, and then get out of the door just
in time to catch hold of the car-rail, and be
pulled on by the brakeman. And when he
has reached his seat and is scraping the rest
of that pie from his boot, and drawing cold
air into his throat to allay the pain of the
scald, he will think up things about the
keeper of that restaurant that would make
the hair on a saw-horse stand on end.—Dan-
bury News.


A LITTLE girl said of her ill-tempered
uncle: "he hasn't got a single laugh in his
face."


H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furnitire from Main to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largeest and purest stock of  confec-
tionary in Salt Lake City. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

DOCTOR CROCKWELL
	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
femal diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His rcnmedies frill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
inUtah.
	Residence near .the' streetcar track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

				CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to incrase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the vicws of the women of Utah. sustained by
them, rcad by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of thclr thoughts we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies, 1 ycar, with a copy to the getter up of  
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-		$18 00
l5 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-		 20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-		34 00 
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	graving of President BrighamYoung, hand
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs shouhld notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by rcgistered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Officc to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
iles.will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1873. 	No. 10.


SALUTATION.

DEAR READERS:
	Finding my name listed as a correspond-
ent, my heart fills with friendly greetings
to those whose eyes are to scan, and whose
minds are to weigh the thoughts and sub-
jects that I may, from time to time, place
upon paper. I trust that you will (mentally)
return the proffered friendly grasp, that we
may pleasantly explore together fields of
thought and regions of instruction.
	The pen is a power in the world, for the
right or wrong use of which its wielders are
accountable; God grant that mine may be
actuated to harmonize with the greatest
good to needy mortals in life's darkened
pathway.
	It will be my privilege in this correspon-
dence, to speak thus familiarly, upon relig-
ion, finance, politics, science, or any thing
instructive in which we may, or should take
a mutual interest.
	Hoping that this introductory note may
lead to a lengthy and profitable acquaint-
ance, I subscribe myself, EXPONENT'S cor-
respondent and reader's friend,
				SARAH M. KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	“OLD PROBABILITIES,” Gen. A. J, Myer,
chief of the Government Signal Service Bu-
reau, has gone to Europe. As his wife lately
inherited a round million of dollars by the
death of her mother, it seems he could well
afford to go.
	THE BUSINESS of the Atlantic Cable is re-
ported to have largely increased since the
beginning of the money panic in New York.
The daily receipts are estimated at $27,000.
So it is, one system loses while another
gains, the world over.
	THE INHABITANTS of Memphis, Tenn.,
have been so stricken with an epidemic that
calls for aid for that city have been neces-
sarily made. Accounts of their sufferings
have been given in the daily papers which
are of a heart-sickening character.
	ANNA DICKENSON is said to have walked
with Prof. Hayden and party to the summit
of Long’s Peak, in Denver, Colorado, recent-
ly, making the ascent in three hours and
ten minutes. She got her name up for once,
if she did have to walk and carry it herself.
	AN AUTHOR in the dramatic line has said,
“There’s no such word as fail;" but the
poor, lone man, who had proposed marriage
to sixty different girls, and got the mitten
every time, used to say he knew there was.
However, he is married at last; so, perhaps,
there isn’t after all.
	CHARLES SPRAGUE, the venerable Boston
poet, author of “The Family Meeting,” and
other beautiful specimens of poetic genius,
welcomed his eighty-third birthday on the
sixteenth of September. He has the best
wishes of thousands for another seventeen
years, which will finish his one hundred.
	THE GREATEST difficulties with which
most young people are perplexed, when
starting out in life, are that they want to be
considered wise without the trouble of learn-
ing wisdom, good without having proved
[Column 2]
themselves so; and would like to become
suddenly rich without waiting to earn riches.
	IT IS proposed in Boston to organize a
“Workingwoman’s Mutual Benefit Associa-
tion,” the object of which will be the pro-
viding of funds for the aid of any member
in extreme need, and in case of death, to
provide a respectable burial. The proposi-
tion is a worthy one and deserves support.
	IN PRUSSIA, a Roman Catholic priest re-
cently preached that marriage among the
Protestants was nothing more than concu-
binage, for which he was sent to prison. He
should have come to America if he wanted
to berate the social systems of other denom-
inations than his own, without having any
attention paid to it.
	A NEW York man, who has been an in-
veterate smoker for years, was lately cured
of the habit, suddenly and effectually, by
knocking the embers from his cigar into a
keg of blasting powder. Others, who have
acquired the habit, and may be unable to
overcome it of themselves, might learn from
this an infallible remedy.
	THE AUTHORITIES of St. Louis are striv-
ing to convince the American public that
they have discovered the panacea for all the
evils growing out of prostitution, and that
their remedy for it should be universally
adopted. Let them first cleanse and make
pure their own city, and others will be ready
to learn of them without being urged to do
so. 
	A STRANGE and unnatural accident is re-
ported to have happened a young lady in
one of the Eastern cities; her hair being
caught and wound up in some machinery,
the entire scalp was torn off, from the eyes
to the back of the neck. And this was done
instantaneously, causing neither bleeding
nor suffering. She will have a wonderful
story to relate to her grandchildren in years
to come.
	A YOUNG lady wishes to know if direct
danger is not to be apprehended from a
notable bachelor’s having become a member
of the “High Council;” whether his “coun-
sel” to young men will not likely be of a
disparaging nature in relation to hymenial
matters. We think not. Distasteful epithets
concerning such things, are more liable to
originate with disappointed husbands than
with old bachelors.
	A TERRIBLE example has been made of
Captain Jack and three of his Modoc asso-
ciates, Schonchin, Boston Charley, and
Black Jim. They were hanged at Fort Kla-
math on the morning of the third inst., in
the presence of more than five hundred Kla-
math Indians, their own wives and children
being among the witnesses! Such are the
decrees of justice on Indian murderers.
	MISS RYE, a lady of superior abilities, is
spending her time and means in emigrating
poor working women, who are out of em-
ployment, from England to America, and se-
curing homes and work for them. She late-
ly sailed from Liverpool, having fifty-five of
those women in charge, for whom she has
homes and employment secured. Her labors
are laudable, and her name and benefactions
will be remembered throughout the genera-
tions of those who are receiving blessings
through her womanly exertions.
[Column 3]
	A STRANGE story is told of a death which
recently occurred in India. A fisherman put
the head of a fish in his mouth to bite it, as
it had proved troublesome in the matter of
wriggling. The fish wriggled into his mouth
and down into his throat, where it firmly
stuck. And not until the unfortunate fisher-
man had been taken to the hospital was the
fish removed in small pieces, directly after
which the man died. This is another proof
of the old truism, that it is best to go through
life with your mouth shut and your eyes
open; and it also shows that cruelty is some-
times wondrously rewarded.
	A GENTLEMAN of this city,  of refined
taste and superior understanding, says that
the worth of woman is by no means appre-
ciated by the great masses. In his office
where crowds of people often gather, he says,
it could scarcely be believed what an influ-
ence the presence of one lady will exert over
a throng of men. It seems to lead them from
their natural rough, careless manners, and
awaken softened, delicate sentiments,which,
without the presence of the gentle, supreme
power she exercises over them, would nev-
er appear. Man, he thinks, is nothing of
worth without woman. We propose a vote
of thanks to the gallant gentleman for his
liberal opinions, so freely offered.
	THAT EXTRAVAGANCE among Americans
is no late thing, may be realized by those
who read the following clipping: “In one
of the New York hotels is a Swiss waiter,
who once saw better days and kept a restaur-
ant in London. A guest lately happened to
hear him arguing with an American com-
rade on the relative merits of democracy in
Switzerland and in the United States. The
Helvetian went in for the superiority of his
own country, and insisted that there were
blots upon the fame of the American Revo-
lution which did not sully the fair name of
Switzerland. The guest, becoming curious,
intruded so far into the controversy as to ask
for some instance of this, whereupon the
Switzer assured him, in all sober earnest-
ness, that the spilling of the tea in Boston
harbor was a wilful waste of good substance,
whereof no Swiss never could have been
guilty.”
	THE “RURAL New Yorker” says: “It has
often been noticed that a farm which has
been given up in disgust by its owner, and
sold for a trifle on account of the light soil
composing it, after passing into the hands
of a man who has learned to use brain work
as well as manual labor in his calling, has,
in the course of two or three years, entirely
changed in appearance, both with respect
to the soil itself and the crops borne on it.”
The same fact is also noticeable in matters
of graver importance. Children who have
been thought to possess very inferior minds,
have, under favorable changes of guardian-
ship and influences, brightened up and
astonished former acquaintances by display-
ing real intelligence, and, in many instances,
superior genius. These different results are
occasioned by the opposites in treatment.
some tutors, like some farmers, expect to
gather largely where ingredients are already
insufficient, instead of affording abundant
supplies of material which is calculated to
enrich rather than impoverish the soil of
the earth or the mind of a child.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.	
     A REFORMED HUSBAND.

		TO HIS WIFE.

Come darling put your sewing by,
	And chat with me awhile.
I want to hear the glad, free tone,
	And see the old sweet smile:
The tone in which you spoke to me,
	The smile you used to wear
When we were courting on the Ranch,
	When love was young and fair.
If then we loved each other well,
	As little as we knew
Of all the wrangling, jangling things
	That throng life's pathway through—
If then we loved and trusted well,
	Just starting on our way
When near a dozen years have passed,
	How should it be to-day?
We never got discouraged then,
	And harsh words never came;
But since that time we neither one
	Have always been the same:
We never got too tired then,
	To walk and take delight,
After a hard day's work was done—
	How would it seem to-night?
Let's be again the lovers true
	We were before we wed;
Nor think so much of "getting on,"
	So we have clothes and bread:
For supper and for breakfast too,
	Hot meals let us discard;
I'd rather eat but once a day
	Than have you work so hard.
I think that if we courted still
	Just as we used to do
Our children would be healthier,
	And better natured too.
Our home would be as cheery bright,
	And we should be again
As happy in each others love,
	And blest as we were then.
Now when the men have left their work,
	And quit the field and shop,
And I come in to read or rest,
	It's time for you to stop;
So let's put this machine aside,
	And cease its tedious hum:
The moon is bright, the air is mild—
	Then come, my darling, come.
								LULU.


AN ADDRESS.
To the Richmond Retrenchment Association.

	How natural to human beings, are thoughts
of self, how prone we are to care for our own
comforts heedless of the welfare of others.
If fortune smiles on us we forget that there
are those who are less fortunate, or who may
need our assistance. Our own enjoyment is
all the world to us; and yet there is not hap-
piness in all this self provision. Much calls
for more, and contentment does not linger
in the heart of averice. But courted or al-
lowed to remain, it takes possession of us
body and soul. And thus we go on grasping
for all within reach, often, perhaps, for that
which would do us no good, determined to
possess it even if it would be an incumbrance
to us, rather than see it enjoyed by another.
If a choice bit of lace or velvet or a nice
dress pattern is brought to some one of a
family, how apt is the young lady to say,
"give it to me. I need it and it suits me
better than my sister." And should
the coveted prize be gained, the thought
never enters her mind that doubtless some
of the rest wished for it quite as much as
herself only they were too good and self-
denying to take it from her. How admira-
ble seems generosity when we notice it in
our friends, especially if a favor has been
done us. But do we ever think to be gen-
erous in return?
	It is an easy matter to persuade ourselves
that people do very little for our benefit,
and to indulge the thought "Why should
we trouble to accomodate them?" Some-
times we pity some one and tell how much


they are in need of help, and if it were not
for some trifling reason we could render as-
sistance, trying to excuse ourselves for neg-
lect of duty. Thus our actitons are a great
deal like the letter p; first in pity but last in
help.
	We are all children of the same wise Pa-
rent, and is it not the duty of every individ-
ual to assist others? It is the only true way
to gain friends or happiness.
	We are not, or should not be, living
merely to gratify our selfish whims, but to
spread peace and love wherever we are. We
should never forget to do this, and especially
to comfort the sick and weary, that they, at
least, may testify that God has not created
us in vain. If we banish all selfish and evil
thoughts from heart and mind, and seek to
promote the prosperity of our brothers and
sisters on earth, God will reward us in hea-
ven.					MARY STUART.	
	RICHMOND, Sept. 27th 1874.


﻿OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMEMT. 
			
				For the EXPONENT  
	EXTINCTION OF RACES.
	Among the more recent results of scien-
tific investigation, are the unmistakable evi-
dences of the existence of men upon this
Continent from the most remote ages, and
of the presence of large settled popula-
tions in distant and also in comparatively
recent times. They were the "occupants of
the then fertile but now arid plains of the
Colorado;" of "islands that existed along
the Pacifi coast," long before the elevation
of the coast itself by which the sea was
shut out and California made habitable;
when the valleys of the Sacramento and
San Joaquin were drained of the waters of
the ocean, large populations came in and
"took possession of the land, leaving their
remains with those of animals long since ex-
tinct." Scientific research proves, in fact,
that "the man of the Florida coral period
existed long anterior to the Pharoahs, prob-
ably long before the land they ruled over
existed." The question asked cannot be
answered so as to satisfy the requirements
of science: "Where did the ancient races
of America come from; and where are they
gone?" With the discoveries made, comes
the unwelcome inference that in the exter-
mination of these primal races there is a
foreshadowing of the ultimate extinction of
the white races now in possession of the
land. In an essay, read recently before the
National Teacher's Association, it was shown
that "no race of human kind has yet ob-
tained a permanent foothold upon this Con-
tinent;" and the melancholy concessions
were that "unless some steps were taken to
avert the evil," we, the proud, enduring,
hitherto permanent occupants of this planet
are doomed, as a race, to an "untimely ex-
terminateion."
	It will be interesting to note the methods
that will be resorted to to avert this. Per-
haps it will be well to ascertain the causes
that gave rise to the extermination of the
races that once inhabited this Continent.
It may be possible that other than "climactic
influences" were operating then, by a "law"
that is not yet recognized. In the mean
time, we may read that which is a key to
these perturbations which exist in bosoms
that dread conditions that are inevitable:
"Wherefore I will consecrate this land (Amer-
ica) unto thy seed and they who shall be
numbered among thy seed, forever, for the
land of their inheritance. For, it is a choice
land, saith God unto me, above all other
lands; wherefore I will have all men that


dwell thereon, that they shall worship me,
saith God!"—Book of Mormon.
	FAT IN FORAGE PLANTS.—Notice is tak-
en by scientific journals of the discoveries
of the German chemist, Konig, who found
that by treatment with strong alcohol, the
fat of grass, clover and hay could be sepa-
rated into two parts—one a solid waxy sub-
stance, the other a fluid fat, soluble in alco-
hol. By other chemists it has also been es-
tablished that even as much as ten per cent
of the dry weight of cereals is fat and wax:
early meadow grass, six and a half per cent
of fat. This is worthy of notice for exposure
to atmospheric change such as occer when
fodder is left uncovered, would cause de-
composition of these fatty matters and thus
make them worthless as food.


For the EXPONENT.
A WOUNDED SPIRIT WHO CAN BEAR.
	
	In reflecting upon the wrongs which
woman is subjected to in the world, and the
evils now existing in consequence of her not
being allowed the choice of a husband in
aocordance with her affections, I have
thought, how appropriate for the considera-
tion of man in these days is the sweet ap-
peal of the poetess, Mrs Felitia D. Hemans:
		"Oh! cast thou not
		Affection from thee in this bitter world,
		Hold to thy heart that only treasure fast;
		Watch, guard it, suffer not a breath to dim
		That bright gem purity."
							EXCELEITE.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
BEWARE OF ACCUSING CHILDREN

	Under this heading perhaps a few words
may not be deemed inappropriate. Years 
and experience have given the writer op-
portunity to observe the influence prevail-
ing over children, that more or less help to 
mold their characters for the future iuflu- 
ence very much to be deprececated and most
heartily to be condemned; as often the re-
sults are lamentable.
	Living in a fsst age comparatively, very 
little consideration, is given to these things,
with all the boasted knowedgc of modern 
times. Children are expected to know
more, which, in fact, they do at a very ten-
der age, than in former days; children were 
children then, until really old enough to 
have some strength of mind and under- 
standing; parents were more cautious, in
respect to conversation in their hearing,
which now seems almost totally done away 
with. Careless habits have gained ground;
for as the world stands, no great or good 
things are advanced without more or less
evil to bring up the rear; which often proves 
almost an overbalance of power, counter-
acting, in a great degree, the good attained.
Thus it is only by the most strenuous efforts
and the exercise of exceeding watchfulness
and care, on the part of those engaged in
God's vineyard—to uproot and drive forth
the little evils, which like the moth, silent- 
ly, ceaslessly and most certainly work sor-
row and woe- that anything can be done.
Among the minor evils, one that carries 
great sway with the generality of people
and families, is that hasty accusation:
Children are often corrected in anger and
haste; more often than in calmness, or with
due deliberation. Because a certain piece 
of mischief is done, some child did it;
and perhaps the child, perfectly innocent of
the mischief said to be his or her doing, is
punished severely for it no matter how 
much he or she may say and protest


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[First column]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	CUCUMBER PICKLES.—The small, long
kind are the best for pickling, and those but
half-grown are nicer than the full-grown.
Let them be freshly gathered; pull off the
blossoms, but do not rub them; pour over
them a strong brine, boiling hot; cover close,
and let them stand all night. The next day
put your hand in the jar or tub and stir
gently, to remove all sand, drain on a sieve,
and then dry in a cloth. Make a pickle
with the best cider vinegar, adding spice in
the following proportions: To each quart of
vinegar put half an ounce of whole black
pepper, the same of ginger and allspice, and
one ounce of mustard seed. If the flavor is
agreeable add four shalots, and two cloves
of garlic, to a gallon of vinegar. When this
pickle boils up, throw in the cucumbers, and
make them boil quickly as possible three or 
four minutes. Put them in the jar with the
boiled vinegar, and cover closely. When
cold, put in a sprig of dill, the seed down-
ward, if you like it. Made in this way,
they will be tender, crisp and green. If the
color is not quite clear enough, pour off the
vinegar the next day; boil up, and pour
over the cucumbers; cover, perfectly tight.
	MELON PRESERVES.—To make an excel-
lent preserve from unripe melons, the green
part of watermelons and citrons, in imitation 
of preserved citron, boil in alum water—a
tablespoonful to about two gallons—pare, cut
in pieces, and lay in water for one or two
days, to take out the alum taste. The pie-
ces should not be quite soft, but like sweet
cucumber pickle. Drain well, make a sirup
of sugar—a pound to each pound of melon—
a pretty strong flavoring of ginger, as hot as
may be liked, remembering that when boil-
ed it will taste hotter, a little mace, and
some lemon peel or essence of lemon to taste.
Boil the pieces in this till clear. Unripe
melons are soaked for some days in brine,
cut up and freshened in cold water before
boiling in alum. This preserve requires-
watching, being very apt to mold.—"House
hold."
	TO CHECK diarrhea it is asserted that a
tea made with baked nutmegs is excellent.
	COUGH SIRUP.—Two ozs. licorice root, 1/2
pound raisins, 2 tablespoonfuls flaxseed
(ground), and liverwort, the more the bet-
ter; boil in two gallons rain or river water,
until the strength is out; then strain and
boil down to a quart; now add 1/2 pound white
sugar, when the sugar is dissolved take off,
and when cool add 1/2 pint good cider vine-
gar. The licorice root should be split up
finely, and the raisins divided. This makes
a sirup very pleasant to take, having no dis-
agreeable taste about it. It will cure coughs,
colds, soreness of the lungs, croup, and it is
said to cure consumption in its first stages.
	TO CLEAN MARBLE.—Take two parts of
common soda, one part of finely powdered
chalk; sift it through a fine sieve, and mix
with water; rub it well all over the marble
and the stains will disappear; then rub the
marble over with soap and water. It will be
as clean as new.
	BAKED TOMATOES make a choice dish.
Select those of good size and ripe, wash, and
bake unseasoned on a pie-dish in a hot oven
for forty minutes, or until quite tender.
They are best to bake on the bottom
and to reduce the juice. If there is danger
of drying up the bottom before the fruit is
done, add water or more tomato juice. A
little of the thick juice should be served
with each tomato. These harmonize nicely
with beans, for a dinner side dish. If desir-

[Scond column]
ed, the skins can be removed before they
are sent to the table. These baked tomatoes
are nice to dry, pouring the juice over them
as the drying proceeds. If put away in a 
close jar, these can be used to good advan-
tage for soups when it is not desirable to
open a can; or they may be gently soaked in
hot water and used as baking tomatoes. For
the latter purpose, however, it is better to
can them as soon as baked. Have an abun-
dance of juice, pour some of it into the can,
fill up with the hot tomatoes, then boil the
can a little while to expel the air, and seal
up as you do other fruit.
	HOW TO BLEACH COTTON CLOTH.—It may
sometimes become necessary or convenient
to bleach a piece of cotton cloth, although as
a general thing it is better to obtain white
cloth already bleached. Home-bleaching,
moreover, is apt to injure the fabric more
than the process in use at the factories, es-
pecially when manipulated, as it always is
there, by skilled hands. However, cloth
may be bleached as follows: To five pounds
of cloth take twelve ounces of chloride of
lime. Dissolve the lime in a small quantity
of boiling water; when cold, strain it into a
sufficient quantity of water to cover the
cloth. This must first be boiled fifteen min-
utes in strong soapsuds and rinsed well in
clear water. Then put it in the lime-water
from ten to twenty minutes, airing it well
by lifting up and down. Rinse thoroughly
in warm or cold water.—"Rural New York-
er."


﻿GOOD TEMPER IN SCHOOL.
	When things go wrong in the school room
through the misbehavior of scholars, the
very worst possible course to be pursued by
a teacher is to lose temper. If good man-
agement and rule cannot be kept with a fair
amount of power to interest, and a compe-
tent knowledge of what is being taught, you
may almost regard it as total unfitness for
the position. Some one else with more grace
and more good sense will do well to take the
place. Bad temper is of itself a sufficient
disqualification in any teacher. But patient,
good-tempered kindness will win love, break
down prejudice, and take possession of hu-
man hearts.


SELFISHNESS.

	Selfishness, in my opinion, is one of the
greatest causes of all evil. If all were wil-
ling to sacrifice their own private feelings
for the happiness and welfare of others, what
love and good feelings there would be,
where now exists animosity and discontent.
“Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of Heav-
en,” is verily true. If we are not willing to
bear crosses and make sacrifices, how shall
we expect to receive blessings?
	To my mind, one of the noblest, most
beautiful things in life, is a self-sacrificing
spirit. To see sisters, or wives, willing to
give way in favor of each other, is heavenly.
I think that persons possessed of such spir-
its are so near perfection, it would be quite
impossible to help loving them. But oh!
how few there are possessed of that heaven-
born influence, comparatively speaking.
When we can learn to forget self in seeking
to promote the happiness of others, we shall
be on the high road to perfect peace. Bur
now we are so apt to have self first in out
minds. If we were to show to others, that
wo had their interest at heart, we would
draw their affections in spite of themselves.
If we could have something like the same
feeling for our brother or sister that a moth-
er has for her child, I think it would be well
with us. There is no sacrifice too great for a


mother to make. Our blessed Saviour died
for all. He had no favorite, we were all the
same to Him. What an example of love and
self-sacrifice was this! And He says, “If ye
love me, keep my commandments; this is
my commandment. that ye love one another
as I have loved you. Greater love hath no
man thant his, that a man lay down his life
for his friends. By this shall all men know
that ye are my disciples,if ye have love one
toward another.”
	How many of us, do you suppose, if called
upon, would be willing to lay down life for
a friend? I fear but very few. But let us
cultivate this self-sacrificing spirit and over-
come selfishness, that we may be loved of
the Father and ever have His spirit to be
with us to lead us into all truth.
						  M.A.F.


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.

	LIBERALITY consists less in giving pro-
fusely than in giving judiciously.
	ALL men would be masters of each other,
and no man is lord of himself.
	WITHOUT earnest convictions no great or
sound literature is conceivable.
	TAKE away ambition and vanity and where
will be your heroes and patriots?
	ONE hundred old ladies, from the Graham
Institute and Church Charity Foundation,
of Brooklyn, went on a free excursion to
Canarsie the other day, under the auspices
of the Fresh Air Committee.
	EVERY good man is not born with the gift
of speech. There are deep-minded, devout
and earnest Christians who can do every-
thing else better than to address a mixed
assembly. They are constitutionally timid
and slow-tongued; there is pure good within
them, but they cannot coin it readily into
current words.
	NO GIRL should be indifferent to her per-
sonal appearance. God meant woman to be
attractive, and it is one of her duties to car-
ry out this design. But that dress is to be all
is more than we can believe. Just because
we love to see girls look well, as well as to
live to some purpose, we would urge them
on such a course of reading and study as
will confer qualities which no modiste can
supply.
	THERE are a thousand reasons why cheer-
fulness and good humor are preferable to
peevishness and discontent. A few of them
are as follows: The former qualities make
life longer, and more enjoyable while it lasts;
they enable their possessor to find more good
in the world, and to realize a better appre-
ciation of it all; to discriminate more readily
and clearly between right and wrong; to
offer compassion instead of contempt, char-
ity rather than reproach, love instead of hate.
	A WELL-KNOWN author once wrote a pretty
essay on the power of education to beautify,
that it absolutely chiseled the features; that
he had seen many a clumsy nose and pair of
thick lips so modified by thought awakened
and active sentiment, as to be unrecogniz-
able. And he put it on that ground that we
so often see people, homely and unattractive
in youth, bloom in middle life into a soft-
ened Indian Summer of good looks and
mellow tones.


A LITTLE girl three years old, in Provi-
dence, R. I., lately fell from one of the  up-
per windows of a two-story house, striking
head first on some stone steps beneath. She
was uninjured. “Providence” has truly
wonderful ways.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRUE INDEPENDENCE.

	At the late fall conference, one of the elders,
while instructing the people, said, in substance,
that the fact that his own family, or members
of the families of other prominent men in the
church, were extravagant, was no excuse for
other people's being the same. The truth of this
statement is obvious.
	Because wives and daughters of the ser-
vants of God may, and do, practically, refuse to
receive the teachings of those having divine
authority to teach, is no reason why others
should follow their foolish examples. Yet it is
astonishing that so many persons evince so lit-
tle individuality in regard to these things.
"Why," says one lady, "do such and such ones,
having so good and wise a father, dress as they
do, if there is evil in it? At any rate, it is no
worse for me to do so than it is for them, and so
long as they are permitted to dress fashionably,
I intend to make as good an appearance as they
can." What a want of independent feeling is
here manifested! Our Saviour might as consis-
tently have rebelled against His Father because
Satan did so.
	Now, that which is required of the daughters
of Zion in regard to their dress, is, simply, that
they cultivate good taste and judgment. It is
the height of absurdity for one person to pur-
chase an article of clothing because some one
else has something the same, or that cost as
much. Refined taste will enable any lady


to avoid such a mistake. And to discriminate
nicely between what is becoming to her, and
that which is not. No lady who has learned
this lesson well, can ever imagine that disfig-
urement of her person, in any way, will add to
her comeliness, no matter who she is or what
her position in life. Nor will a woman of good
judgment spend more on apparel than is requi-
site for comfort and neatness, however extrava-
gant her neighbors may be.
	The attempt to follow every new fashion that
is introduced, without being able to judge un-
derstandingly whether it is an improvement on
the old or otherwise, shows a great lack of in-
telligent, womanly freedom and self-reliance;
and betrays a weakness of mind from which
the votary herself would shrink in disgust did
it appear in any other form than that of the
love for dress and idle display.
	But to adorn the person tastefully and con-
veniently, without scrupulously bowing to the
whims of others, portrays the exercise of care-
ful thought, and that true independence of
character which ennobles and dignifies woman
in the eyes of all sensible beholders.
	If the women of the Latter-day Saints will
learn and practice wisdom, by and by the posi-
tion of a few prominent ones, whose present
course seems to lead away the hearts of many
after the vain things of earth, will be changed
They will see the folly of their ways, and seek
to amend them, or they will be without influ-
ence in the midst of the people.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		L. Greene Richards, Editor. 	

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies 
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight 
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3. 
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street, 
Salt Lake City. 
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours 
from 9 to 12 a.m., and from 2 to 5 p.m., on Mondays and Fridays. 
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers Woman's Exponent,
						Salt Lake City, Utah. 

		SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, 1873.


SPLINTERS.

	New Orleans has a swimming school for
ladies.	......$20,000 is said to have been
made by the "Graphic" balloon enterprise.
......The Grand Vizier of the Shah has been
sent to prison.	    ......Barnum stops at Sara-
toga while his great show goes round.
......William Penn's house in Philadelphia
has been made into a beer saloon.	......Pres-
ident Grant's Secretary, Gen. Babcock, and
wife, have gone to Europe.	......Vienna
has sixty splendid orchestras, all full.
......Gen. McClellan's summer residence is
at Maywood, N. J.	......Chestnut timber,
five hundred years old, in Westminister
Abbey, is still sound.	......Within three
weeks, four persons have dropped dead on
one street in Atlanta, Georgia.	......The
British navy has lately had three new war
vessels added, and there are twenty-five
others being built.	......The frequency of
criminals committing suicide in their cells,
is attracting attention in Switzerland.
......In one day, duties amounting to $15,000
were collected on Canadian wool at St. Al-
bans, Vt.	     ......Eighty-six women in Mich-
igan, have entered the University this
term. 	......Quincy, Ill., has set its organ
grinders to sweeping streets. 	......Great
destruction has been made among the grape
crops of Portugal this season by vine dis-
ease. 	......A celebrated brigand in Southern
Italy, known as Manzi, has lately been cap-
tured and his band extirpated.		......Mad-
am Nilsson and her husband, Sig. Salvini,
were lately visiting in New York.	......The 
Pope has recovered from his recent indispo-
sition.	......Joaquin Miller has been passing
a season with Minister Gladstone in Wales.
......A widower in Michigan, who has forty-
eight children, recently married his fourth
wife....... 	A New York writer gives an arti-
cle on "Intelligent Mules," and it is believed
if he can prove there are such, that women
will no longer 	denied the ballot. 	......A
new cave has been discovered near "The
Cave of the Winds," at Niagara Falls, which
promises to be one of the wonders of Amer-
ica.


TURNED UP NOSES.

	Mrs. A. turns up her nose at something
Mrs B. does or has done, and Mrs. B. lives
to see the day when she turns up her nose
at the same conduct in Mrs. A., forgetting
the record of her own history.
	Thus is the air continually more or less
filled with inconsistent turned-up noses,
when really there is no occasion for one to
think himself or herself better than another


FAILINGS IN MEN AND WOMEN.

	Women are at a decided disadvantage in
regard to shortcomings. But naturally no
better than men, they are expected to be
angels. If by any chance there is occasion-
ally found a woman whose wings have been
soiled by the sordid or other evil influences
so rife in this world of men, she is instantly
and forever branded.
	Faults which are excused in men become
crimes when committed by women, for
which the supreme court of society finds
them guilty and deserving of banishment
for life.
	To crave the license which society gives
to men will not mend matters at all, but if
women would look with a little more com-
plaisancy upon all grades of her own sex, the
yoke of injustice would not wound quite so
deep or frequently as now.


TO ERR IS HUMAN.

	Truth reveals that mortals are all erring,
and one time or another every one is guilty
of that which memory would rather blot
from the record.
	It sounds well for people to aver in lofty
style that they never did anything of which
to be ashamed. There is not, and probably
never was, a person so perfect that to a great-
er or less degree he or she has never done
wrong, wilfully or ignorantly. In either case
a blush of shame is but a slight token that
the spirit has realized higher and better
things, and has risen above the possibility
of committing the same error again.


NOTICE.

	The EXPONENT Committee of Consultation
is requested to meet at the residence of Presi-
dent George A. Smith, on Tuesday, the 21st
inst., at 2 o'clock, p. m. A full attendance is
respectfully solicited.
				   ELIZA R. SNOW, Pres.
	MINNIE HORNE, Sec.


PROGRESSIVE.

	A short time ago we clipped and published a
call for a woman's congress, which appeared in
the "Woman's Journal." In a late number of
the same paper is given a notice specifying the
time set for the meeting of those women whose
names had been forwarded in answer to the call
which is the 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th of the
present month. The list of names appended is
a long one, and it may be anticipated that good
results will follow this meeting of earnest re-
formers.


SOMETHING NEW WANTED.

	The eye wearies of gazing for a length of time
upon the same objects, however beautiful they
may appear at first view; and the most pleasing
sounds become tedious when long listened to.
Thus the human mind is forever reaching forth
for some new motive, some stimulus to urge
the senses to new action and new acquirements.
Old facts that have long been known, become
monotonous if often repeated, and a kind of
thirsting after something more is likely to be
felt. The child could never progress in learning
if kept always at its a. b. c. lessons and never
allowed to turn over the leaf.
	The Latter-day Saints want new ideas placed
before them continually. This is an age of rapid
progression, and the Saints want to keep up
with the rest of the world. But how few among
them seem to realize the necessity of learning
properly, thoroughly understanding and wisely
practicing the former lessons which have been
for years placed before them for their own ben-
efit. A wise teacher does not often give lessons
for in advance of what his pupils evince will-


ingness and ability to comprehend. And how-
ever immaterial some of the principles of the
Gospel of Christ may appear to many who have
taken upon them His name, and covenanted to
keep His commandments, they cannot advance
as the true hearted ever desire to do, until they
have learned to put into daily practice every
principle which has been revealed to them by
the spirit of revelation from God. Their teach-
ers become weary of haranguing the old lessons
year after year, and would rejoice to see all the
world uniting to make good use of what has
long been taught, and preparing for more ad-
vanced additions to God's law.
	But what does it profit the Lord to hand out
new laws to people who are unprepared for
them? When He revealed the law of Celestial
marriage to President Joseph Smith, how many
were prepared to accept it? How many, to-day,
are really impressed with the importance of
sustaining Co-operation, of paying an honest
Tithing, or of observing faithfully the Word of
Wisdom? Who among the Latter-day Saints
are prepared for new lessons, new laws and or-
dinaces, should the Lord see fit to extend them?
Surely not those who have ceased to attend
Sabbath meetings because the same old doc-
trines are preached from the stand, and they
want to hear something new.


HOLD STILL.

	In a private communication from Beaver,
mention is made of the cowardly acts of some
men in seeking to wrest from the rightful own-
ers portions of land in that locality. Our cor-
respondent says: "It can only be styled at-
tempted mobocracy when individuals from
other parts of the country come here, no doubt
scapegraces, escaped from justice for theft or
something worse, and claim the land which
our people have subdued and tilled for years.
Some of which is almost the entire dependence
of poor men, and widows and orphans." If pro-
fanity wasn't against the principles of the EX-
PONENT, we might think of something horribly
bad in contemplating this representation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿BATHING.

	The “Journal of Health” says that the cause
of weakness after bathing is bathing at the
wrong time; too great fatigue at the time of
bathing; too much bathing; too long continued
bathing. When one is made weak by a bath,
he should cease to take that bath. There is a
great deal too much bathing carried on. The
use of water in this country has come to be with
people whose attention has been called thereto
only less dangerous than the use of medicine.
God has not made the human body to be im-
mersed in water all the time. If persons would
live rightly, they would need to bathe but very
little; and one of the best ways of bathing we
have ever found with feeble patients, is to have
them drink of spring water—always drunk,
however, in very small quantities at a time—
but drunk very frequently, and so bathe their
skins from the inside. This is one kind of
bathing that is not dangerous if rightly admin-
istered. The best time for taking a bath is at
that period of the day when the sun is in its
progress to the highest point in the heavens.
Along the forenoon is the best time to bathe,
other things being equal.
	Some, if not all of the above statements, may
be readily proven to be correct. Directly before
or immediately after eating is one of the wrong
times for bathing. An hour at least should in-
tervene between the times of eating a meal and
taking a bath.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE PARQUETTE in the Salt Lake Theatre is
now seated with iron chairs.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young, with some of
his counselors, held a two days’ meeting at
Provo City, on the 11th and 12th insts.
	AMERICAN FORK is reported by the Sunday
School Superintendent to take the lead in Utah
county, in the Sabbath School library depart-
ment.
	THE DESERET Teachers’ Association lately
held in this city a series of meetings, at which

[Column 2]
much valuable information, and many excel-
lent ideas, were given, of a nature calculated to
prove of great worth to those teachers who at-
tended.
	THE MUSIC and singing of the choir, during
Conference, deserves especial notice, and Pro-
fessor Careless merits all the compliments he
will ever get. Names may sometimes be sug-
gestive of character and habits, but when his is
considered in connection with the choice selec-
tion of pieces for that occasion, it sounds rather
inappropriate.
	IT IS thought that if ties can be procured by
the last of the present month, the Utah South-
ern railroad will have reached Provo city. Rail-
road enterprises are progressing finely in the
Territory, and by another fall the people of
many settlements may be accommodated with
a ride to the Fair and Conference, and home
again, on the cars.
	AT THE last monthly meeting of the Sunday
School superintendents and teachers, most of
the counties in the Territory were represented,
and a report from each, so far as had been re-
ceived, was read by the Secretary of the Sab-
bath School Union. It was estimated that as
many as nineteen thousand children were in
regular attendance at the various Sabbath
Schools throughout the Territory.
	IN THE Ladies’ department at the Territorial
Fair there was a variety of articles, particularly
many in crochet work, which were of so simi-
lar a quality that it was impossible to judge
which was the finest specimen. Some of the
Relief Societies made a very creditable display,
and they should all feel encouraged, and deter-
mined to make greater exertions to perform
good works in the future, even than have been
accomplished in the past.
	DURING THE Fair and Conference season we
were gratified to meet with many friends of
the EXPONENT from different parts of the Ter-
ritory, with some of whom our first personal
acquaintance was then formed. Among those
who favored us with pleasant calls we noted
the names of Mrs. Mary Hindley, President of
the R. S. at American Fork; Mrs. S. A. Peter-
son, President of the Ephraim R.S.; "Flora,"
from the South; "M.," of Grantsville; and Mrs.
Frodsham and Mrs. Herrick, of Ogden City.
	AN EQUESTRIAN match between six ladies
was witnessed by a large gathering of people at
the Agricultural Park track, in this city, on the
afternoon of the 9th inst. The competition was
not for the purpose of testing the speed of the
horses, but to decide which of the ladies rode
with most case and grace, and exhibited most
skill in the management of her horse. The first
prize, a handsome side saddle, was won by Miss
Birdie Clawson. Mrs. S. Ford gained the sec-
ond prize, which was the choice among a col-
lection of beautiful pictures.	THE SCHOOL Teachers’ Convention, that met
for three consecutive days, beginning on the
2nd of October, did efficient work in matters of
Education. All the addresses made were char-
acterized by the earnest spirit of progress, just
now, and always needed in this fast country
and age. The extemporaneous address of Gov.
Wood was not only eloquent, but full of prac-
tical suggestions concerning an educational law
for the good of the Territory, and betokened a
deep and abiding interest in the cause of schools
everywhere. The address of Mr. Rollins was
marked by uncommon ability for one so young,
and was delivered in a manner which portrayed
proficiency in elocution.


WORTH NOTING.

	Do instantly whatever is to be done; take
the hours of reflection for recreation after
business and never before it. When a regi-
ment is under march, the rear is often
thrown into confusion because the front does
not move steadily and without interruption.
It is the same thing with business. If that
which is first in hand is not instantly, stead-
ily and regularly dispatched, other things
accumulate behind till affairs begin to press
all at once and no human brain can stand
the confusion. Pray mind this; it is one of
your weak points; a habit of mind it is that
is very apt to beset men of intellect and tal-
ent, especially when their time is not filled
up regularly but is left to their own manage-
ment. But it is like the ivy round the oak,
and ends by limiting if it does not destroy
the power of manly and necessary exer-
tion.—Sir Walter Scott.


SUBLIMITY.

	Whatever ennobles the human character
and indicates superior energy of intellectual
or moral qualities, is what we call mental or
moral sublimity. The sublime of human
character produces love of admiration by a
display of all the noble qualities of our na-
ture; and there is considerable sublimity in
gifts of the imagination and the understand-
ing, like those philosophers as Newton, by
such heroes as Napoleon. But when there is
a constant exertion of mental vigor—an in-
variable display of elevation of mind—an
habitual heroism evinced even amid the
storms and agitations of the passions—where
there is an heroic disregard of danger—a
cool and firm presence of mind in difficulties
and embarrassments — disinterested vir-
tues—expanded benevolence—a strong sense
of every generous feeling—a principle of
virtue superior to the opinions of weak and
corrupt men and to the vile and inordinate
propensities of our low and debased nature––
then we discover all the virtues and quali-
ties that form the utmost sublimity of hu-
man character.


THE CULTURE OF FLOWERS.

	It is very surprising that anything that
will yield so much pleasure and enjoyment
should be so universally neglected by the
wives and daughters of our farmers. Al-
though, to be fair, I think the cultivators of
flowers are on the increase from year to year.
Many ladies would like to have a flower
garden, well enough. Oh! yes; they like
flowers—“but how shall we get the ground
prepared?” they say. “We cannot go out
and hoe, and dig in the dirt.” Oh, yes, my
readers, you could, and be the gainers there-
by. Let me tell you, as one who knows by
experience whereof he speaks, that it does
not take half the strength and vitality to go
out and hoe and shovel a while in the gar-
den, that it does to sit at the sewing machine
all day, to say nothing of the benefit to be
derived from being in the open air, and the
very great pleasure, the beautiful flowers
will afford to a lover of flowers. Oh! I wish
that everybody’s wives daughters could
be induced to try the cultivation of a few
flowers. If they could, they would soon see
husbands and brothers interested, to such a
degree at least as to perform the hardest part
of the labor, and their own happiness and
pleasure increased thereby.—“Maine Farm-
er.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRUST YOUR MOTHER.

Trust your mother, little one;
In life's morning, just begun,
You will find some grief, some fears,
Which, perhaps may cause you tears,
But a mother's kiss may heal
Many griefs that children feel;
Trust your mother—seek to prove
Grateful for her thoughtful love.

Trust your mother, noble youth.
Turn not from the paths of truth;
In temptation's evil hour,
Seek her ere it gains new power.
She will never guide you wrong;
Faith in her will make you strong.
Trust your mothor—aim to prove
Worthy of her fondest love.

Trust your mother, maiden fair,
Love will guide your steps with care;
Let no cloud e’er come between--
Let no shadow e’er be seen,
Hiding from your mother's heart
What may prove a poisoned dart.
Trust your mother—seek to prove
Worthy of her sacred love.
				—“Youth’s Cabinet."


﻿WOMANLY MODESTY.

	Modesty is to merit, what shade is to fig-
ure in painting; it gives it boldness and
prominence. Nothing adds more to female
beauty than modesty; it sheds around the
countenance a halo of light which is borrow-
ed from virtue. Botanists have given the
rosy hue which tinges the cup of the rose
the name of “maiden blush.” This pure and
delicate hue is the only paint that Christian
virtue should use; it is the richest ornament.
A woman without modesty is like a faded
flower, which diffuses an unwholesome odor,
and which the prudent gardener will throw
away from him. Her destiny is melancholy,
for it ends in shame and repentance. Beauty
passes like the flower of the aloe, which
blooms and dies in a few hours, but modesty
gives the female character charms which
supplies the place of the transitory freshness
of youth.


A MAN'S OPINION.

	Philip Stanhope, Earl of Chesterfield, was
said to be a sincere man when he had no
special need to be otherwise. It may be a
valuable contribution to the woman’s rights
controversy of the present hour to show
what this gallant and experienced person
really thought of women. Writing to his
son, in the fullest sincerity and with the
most genuine and honest desire to instruct,
this is what he says: “Women are only chil-
dren of a larger growth; they have an enter-
taining tattle, and sometimes wit, but for
solid, reasoning good sense, I never in my
life knew one that had it, or who reasoned
or acted consequentially for four and twenty
hours together. Some little passion or hu-
mor always breaks in upon their best resolu-
tions. Their beauty neglected or controvert-
ed, their age increased, or their supposed
understanding depreciated, instantly kindles
their little passions and overturns any sys-
tem of consequential conduct that, in their
most reasonable moments, they might have
been capable of forming. A man of sense
only trifles with them, plays with them, hu-
mors and flatters them, as he does with a
sprightly, forward child; but he neither con-
sults them about nor trusts them with seri-
ous matters, though he often makes them
believe that he does both, which is the thing
in the world that they are proud of, for they
love mightily to be dabbling in business
(which, by the way, they always spoil), and
being justly distrustful that men in general
look upon them in a trifling light, they al-
most adore that man who talks more seri-


ously to them, and who seems to consult and
trust them. I say who seems—for weak
men really do, but wise ones only seem to
do it."
	Now with all this great man's sincerity in
his belief of woman, (and we would not in-
dicate that we doubt it), we will venture
that the mother of the young man to whom
that wise explanation was sent—or if not
her, some other woman—could wheedle him,
with all his wisdom, into her own ways, and
make him believe—yes, "believe,"—what-
ever she chose. Such a man is the very one
to be the victim of a woman's influence.


A WOMAN OF HONOR.

	A woman of honor and purity! What a
beautiful title that is! Who would not
rather have it than any that kings can be-
stow? It is worth more than all the gold
and silver in the whole earth. She who
merits it wears a jewel within her soul, and
needs none upon her bosom. Her word is as
good as a bond. If there was no law in the
land, you might deal just as safely with her.
To take unfair advantage is not in her; to
clothe her speech so that she may lead oth-
ers to suppose she means something that she
does not, even while they cannot prove that
it is not so, would be impossible to her frank
nature. Her speeches are never riddles; she
looks you in the eye, and says straight out
the things she has to say; acting towards
others as she would have them act toward
her. The maiden of honor is always respected.
She makes a good sister and a good wife.
	Young ladies let us strive to be honorable
before our Heavenly Father, and before all
mankind. There is honor in pursuing the
line of Retrenchment which has been mark-
ed out for us with so much wisdom; in gain-
ing and giving all the instruction we can,
for our own sakes, and for the sake of God's
Kingdom. Instead of pulling each other
down, let us try to strengthen and bless
each other, and God will help us in our ef-
forts. If we have faith in our hearts when
we want anything, we will ask the Lord for
it, and if we ask not amiss, He will be sure
to grant the blessing. Our duty to our pa-
rents should never be forgotten; if they are
sick, the gentlest, kindest care that we can
bestow upon them is not too much, or more
than they would do for us.
	To be women of honor, we must strive,
not only to be truthful and honest in all re-
spects, but lady-like and amiable also.
To be choice of the words we utter and the
manners we assume, are duties which we
owe, not alone to ourselves but to our fellow-
creatures as well. For making ourselves
agreeable is adding to the comfort of those
around us.			MRS. MAY TOUT.


THE BRAIN.—One of the most inconceiv-
able things in the nature of the brain is that
the organ of sensation should itself be in-
sensible. To cut the brain gives no pain, yet
in the brain alone resides the power of feel-
ing pain in any part of the body. If the
nerve which leads from it to the injured
part be divided, it becomes instantly uncon-
scious of suffering. It is only by communi-
cation with the brain that any kind of sen-
sation is produced, yet the organ itself is in-
sensible. But there is a circumstance more
wonderful still; the brain itself may be re-
moved—may be cut away down the corpus
callosin—without destroying life. The ani-
mal lives and performs all its functions which
are necessary to simple vitality, but no long-
er having a mind, it cannot think or feel.
It requires that the food should be pushed
into the stomach; once there, it is digested,
and the animal will grow fat.


PRAISE CHILDREN.

	There is an old superstition that praise is
too good a thing to be given to children;
that it is too rich for their mental and moral
digestion. Some parents are so afraid that a
child will grow proud that they never praise
him, and this course is often disastrous. It
is apt to produce either too much self-asser-
tion—for self-assertion is a legitimate out-
growth of the withholding of commendation
to which one is entitled—or to engender a
self-distrust, of melancholy hopelessness of
disposition. Praise is sunshine to a child,
and there is no child that does not need it.
It is the high reward of one's struggle to do
right. Thomas Hughes says that you never
can get a man's best out of him without
praise. You certainly can never get a child's
best out of him without praise. Many a sen-
sitive child, we believe, dies of hunger for
kind commendation. Many a child, starving
for the praise that a parent should give, runs
off eagerly after the designing flattery of
others. To withhold praise, where it is due,
is dishonest, and, in the case of a child,
such a course often leaves a stinging sense
of injustice Motives of common justice, as
well as regard for the future of the child,
should influence the parent to give generous
praise for all that it deserves. Of course
there is a difference in the constitution of
children. Some cannot bear so much praise
as others, and some need a great deal. It
should never be indiscriminate. We remem-
ber a wonderful woman who taught school
in one village until she had educated a part
of three generations. She was one of the
most successful of teachers. But her success
lay in her gift of praising with discrimina-
tion. A bad boy who was a good scholar got
praises for his brilliancy, sandwiched be-
tween her abomination for his bad behavior,
and so was won to a better life; and we re-
call a good girl who had no gift of learning
rapidly, but was saved from utter despair by
the praise she got from her untiring industry.
Into the discouraged hearts of the children
the praise of the teacher came like sunlight.
And the virtues, like other fruits, can only
ripen in the sunshine.—Rev. E. Eggleston.


CAUGHT IN THEIR OWN TRAP.

	A couple of California convicts recently
quite outwitted themselves in planning an
ingenious escape from jail. They managed
to store themselves in a large box in the
wheelwright shop where they worked, and
had the box nailed and so arranged that
when they arrived in San Francisco, and
landed on the wharf, they could open one
end. Unfortunately for them, when the box
came on the boat one of the deck hands
turned it up on end instead of leaving it flat.
This was more than the convicts could
stand. One of them stood on his head, and
the rush of blood was more than he had bar-
gained for, while the other cried out "this
box don't stand right." The deck hand was
astonished at this exclamation, and his first
idea was that ghosts were on board. A coun-
cil was held, and the captain decided to
break open the box. To the utter astonish-
ment of everybody, as soon as the sides were
broken off, two live men came creeping out
in a state of perspiration. They were at once
recognized as convicts and were sent back 
to prison.—"Exchange."


﻿JACKSON COUNTY, Iowa, has many potato
fields this year, in which the amount yield-
ed will not equal the seed planted. It is
often the case that people plant more than
they gather, in other fields beside those for
potatoes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[First column]
	RULES OF CONVERSATION FOR
			YOUNG LADIES.
		
			CONTINUED.
	Besides all this moral evil attendant on a
habit of exaggeration, it is a great mistake
to suppose that it makes a person more
agreeable, or that it adds to the importance
of her statements. The value of a person's
words is determined by her habitual use of
them. "I like it much," "It is well done,"
will mean as much in some mouths, as "I
am infinitely delighted with it," "Tis the
most exquisite thing you ever saw," will in
others. Such large abatements are necessa-
rily made for the statements of these roman-
cere, that they really gain nothing in the
end, but find it difficult sometimes to obtain
credence for so much as is really true;
whereas, a person who is habitually sober
and discriminating in the use of language,
will not only inspire confidence, but be able
to produce a great effect by the occasional
use of a superlative. Fidelity and exactness
are indispensable in a narrative, and the
habit of exaggerating destroys the power of
accurate observation and recollection, which
would render the story truly interesting. If,
instead of trying to embellish her account
with the fruits of her imagination, a young
lady possessed the power of seizing upon
the points best worth describing, and could
give an exact account of them, she would be
far more entertaining than any exaggeration
could make her; for there is no romance like
that of real life; and no imaginings of an
inexperienced girl can equal in piquancy
the scenes and characters that are every day
presented to our view. Extravagant expres-
sions are sometimes resorted to, in order to
atone for deficiencies of memory and obser-
vation; but they will never hide such de-
fects; and, an habitual use of them lowers
the tone of the mind, and leads to other de-
viations from the simplicity of truth and
nature.
	Another way of falsifying a narrative, is
by taking for granted what you do not know,
and speaking of it as if you did. This jump-
ing at conclusions is a fruitful source of false
reports, and does great mischief in the
world. Let no one imagine that she is walk-
ing conscientiously, who is not in the habit of
discriminating nicely between what she
knows to be fact, and what she only supposes
to be such. Some girls, without any wish
to exaggerate, contract a habit of using cer-
tain forcible expressions on all occasions,
great and small, and consequently make
some very absurd speeches. A young lady,
for example, told us she was "passionately
fond of embroidery." She had used the
word in the sense of very, till she had lost all
perception of its true meaning.
	The frequent use of some favorite word or
phrase is a common defect in conversation,
and can only be guarded against by asking
your friends to point it out to you, when-
ever they observe such a habit; for your own
ear, having become accustomed to it, may
not detect it. Some persons apply the epi-
thet "glorious," or "splendid," to all sorts
of objects indiscriminately, from a gorgeous
sunset to a good dinner.
	A young lady once tried to describe a pic-
nic party to us, in the following terms:
"There were ten of us, four on horseback,
and the rest in carriages; we set off at a
glorious rate, and had a splendid time in get-
ting there; I rode the most elegant, perfect
creature you ever saw, and capered along
gloriously. When we got there, we all walked
about in the woods, and gathered the most
splendid flowers, and dined under the shade
of a glorious old elm tree. We had our cold

[Second column]
provisions spread out on the grass, and
everything was elegant. We had glorious ap-
petites, too, and the collation was splendid,
and put us all in fine spirits. Some of the 
gentlemen sung funny songs, but one sung
such a dreadful sentimental one, and to such
a horrid, doleful tune, it made us all miser-
able. So, then, we broke up, and had a
splendid time packing away the things. Such
fun! I almost killed myself with laughing,
and we broke half the things. But the ride
home was the most splendid of all; we arriv-
ed at the top of the hill just in time to see
the msot glorious sunset I ever beheld."
	In this short account, the word "glorious"
is used five times, and in all but the last it
is grossly misapplied; the same is the case
with the word "splendid," except that it is
not once used properly. "Elegant," too, is
equally inapplicable to horses and cold pro-
visions. Yet this style of conversing is so
common, that it hardly arrests the attention
of many who, nevertheless, would condemn
it at once if they thought at all about it.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


PLAY.

	Nothing can be more cruel and nothing
more foolish than to place children where
they must be dressed every day in fresh and
fashionable clothes, and their freedom to
play curtailed for the sake of appearances.
What childhood needs is perfect freedom
among the things of nature—freedom to
romp, to make mud-pies, to leap fences, to
row, to fish, to climb trees, to chase butter-
flies, to gather wild flowers, to live out doors
from morning until night, and to do all
those things that innocent and healthy child-
hood delights in, in cheap, strong clothes
provided for the purpose. Exactly that
which childhood needs, manhood and wo-
manhood need—perfect liberty, and perfect
carelessness at times. So, whether the dwel-
ler by the sea, go inland for his summer play,
or the resident of the inland city go to the
sea, he should seek some spot unvisited by
those devoted to fashionable display, and
employ his time in unrestricted communion
with nature, and in those pursuits and
amusements which, without let or hin-
drance, perform the office of recreation.


SELF.

	You may depend on others for daily sup-
port. Your household duties or business af-
fairs may be left to the care of others. Ex-
penses and toil and all responsibilities may
be shirked, and left for others to attend to.
But if you would become any thing of your-
self, if you would have a bright and honor-
able name, a pure and irreproachable charac-
ter, these can only be secured to you by your
own exertions. We read of self-made he-
roes, of self-educated men. No hero ever
existed who did not, by his own self-will
and personal endeavors, perform the noble
deeds for which he became famous. No
scholar ever obtained his knowledge through
the abilities of another. His own brain had
to exert itself, and gain for itself the treas-
ures with which it was stored.
	One of the most pleasing things in nature
is to see a person earnestly striving to ac-
complish something worthy of being re-
membered and imitated. Every one likes to
be appreciated and praised. Let every one
be willing to render to others that encour-
agement which they all want for themselves.
It is unfair and selfish to ridicule or misrep-
resent the efforts of others to do something
 n the world.					L.


SCRAPS.

	"BIRDIE" is what a young husband fond-
ly calls his wife, because, as he says, she is
always associated in his mind with a bill.
	"O, MAMMA," cried a little girl, in ecstacy
with her first French doll, "I'm just full of
happiness, and I wish I'd hurry and grow
bigger, so I could be happier!"
	THE word love in one of our Indian dia-
lects is "chemlendamaoughkanagogager."
Just fancy a sweet forest-maiden telling her
copper-colored brace that she chemlendam-
aoughkanagogagers him!
	A MAN in Jersey City is reputed to be so
witty that his wife manufactures all the but-
ter which the family use from the cream of
his jokes.
	A MINISTER at a marriage, said to a farm-
er, "Our joint occupations represent the chief
excellence of life. You till, I tie. (Utility.)
	A MENDICANT in New Orleans poked out
the eye of a lady who refused to give him
alms; and the justice before whom he was
taken wanted to know if his counsel moved
for a new trial.
	A GREAT military genius gives it as his
opinion that the only difference between the
plan of a battle-field and a roasted pippin is,
that the one is a war-map and the other a
warm-ap-ple.
	A JUVENILE correspondent wants to know
which is the oldest, Miss Ann Tiquity, Miss
Ann Terior, Miss Ann Cestor, Miss Ann T.
Cedent, or old Aunty Diluvian; which equals
the signatures accompanying the valentines
sent to an old bachelor last leap year. They
were Miss Jennie Rosity, Miss Ella Gance,
Miss Maggie Zine, and Miss Mattie Nay.
	THE following bit of news—startling and
wonderful(!)—clipped from a New York co-
temporary, will be of interest (?) to some la-
dies of this city:—"A report from Salt Lake
City says that George Q. Cannon, the Utah
delegate to Congress, has secretly secured
divorces from his three wives."
	A LETTER recently passed through some
of the Southern postoffices of this Territory,
with the following inscription, evidently for
the benefit of postmasters:
	You rascal, pass this letter by, There's
nothing in it worth a fly; It only asks a loan
of cash—Pioche again has gone to smash.
	The letter reached its destined place in
good time, and the recipient found, on its
arrival, that some appreciative postmaster
had replied to the above as follows:
	The writer of this letter merits an empty
purse, Himself a rascal or something worse.
To think such a thing won't reach its desti-
nation, Deserves to be doomed to conflagra-
tion!


TWO SIDES.

	Everything weak, timid, delicate, soft,
silly and inefficient is called feminine or wo-
manish, while all things strong, noble,
hardy, courageous and active are masculine
or manlike; and there are many of the femi-
nine sex who are rightly termed silly and
weak, but there are masculines who are so
soft and yielding that they cannot resist a
proffered wine-glass or a challenge to a game
of cards, though they know that the accept-
ance of either will lead to their eternal ruin.
And have you never seen a lord of creation
move about with the meek submissiveness
of a well-trained member of the canine fam-
ily, while his weak, (?) delicate (?) better-
half reigned (and sometimes stormed)
throughout his domicil?—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.
MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.
CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je15
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BR NCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less that Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.
		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT MAN carries everything before
him? The waiter. 
	THE MAN who had "a will of his own"
didn't get on very well at home, because his 
wife had a "won't of her own."
	METHODS OF INFLUENCE.—There is no
doubt that, among our social obligations,
that of influencing others to right conduct
should rank very high. We have not ful-
filled our whole duty to our fellow-men when
we have accorded them liberty of action,
have secured their natural rights, and re-
moved all impediments to their onward 
progress; we also owe them a direct and 
positive influence for good.
	ENVY PUNISHED.—A Burnmese potter, it
is said, becasme envious of the prosperity of 
a washerman, and to ruin him, induced the 
king to order him to wash one of his black
elephants white, that he might be "lord of 
the white elephant," which in the East is a 
great distinction. The washerman replied
that, by the rules of his art, he must have a 
vessel large enough to wash him in. The 
king ordered the potter to make him such a 
vessel. When made it was crushed by the 
first step of the elephant in it. Many times
was this repeated; and the potter was ruined
by the very scheme he had intended should
crush his enemy. 
	A TRUE LADY.—I cannot forbear point-
ing out to you, my dearest child, said Lord 
Collingwood to his daughter, the great ad-
vantages that will result from a temperate
conduct and sweetness of manner to all peo-
ple on all occasions. Never forget that you
are a gentlewoman, and all your words and 
actions should make you gentle I never
heard your mother—your dear, good moth-
er—say a harsh or hasty thing to any person
in my life. Endeavor to imitate her. I am
quick and hasty in my temper; but, my 
darling, it is a misfortune which, not hav-
ing been sufficiently restrained in my youth,
has caused me inexpressible pain. It has
given me more trouble to subdue this im-
petuosity than anything I ever undertook.
	A WELL known German florist related, in
a high state of irritation, his troubles, in 
this way. He said: "I have so much drouble
mit de ladies ven dey come to buy mine
rose; dey vants him hardy, dey vants him
doubles, dey vants him moundly, dey vants
him fragrand, dey vants him nice gouler,
dey vants gim ebery things in one rose. I 
hopes I am not vat you calls von uncallant
man, but I have somedimes to say to dat
laides, 'Madame, I never often sees dat la-
dies dat vas beautiful, dat vas rich, dat vas
good temper, dat vas youngs, dat vas clever,
dat vas perfection in one ladies. I see her 
much not!' "
	FIFTEEN GREAT MISTAKES.—It is a great 
mistake to set up our standard of right and 
wrong, and judge people accordingly. It is 
a great mistake to measure the enjoyment
of others by our own; to expect uniformity
of opinion in this world; to look for judg-
ment and experience in youth; to endeavor
to mould all dispositions alike; not to yield
in immaterial trifles; to look for perfection
in our own actions; to worry ourselves and 
others with what cannot be remedied; not 
to alleviate all that needs alleviation, as far
as lies in our power; not to make allowances
for the infirmities of others; to consider
everything impossible which we cannot 
perform; to believe only what our finite
minds can grasp; to expect to be able to un-
derstand everything.


Saturday Night.

Some one beautifully says: "Saturday
night makes people human, sets their hearts
to beating softly.  it is Saturday night, and 
business breathes free again.  Homeward,
ho!  The door that has been ajar all the
week gently closes behind him, the world is 
all shut out.  Shut out? shut in rather. Here
are treasures after all, and not in the vault,
and not in the book, save the record in the 
old family Bible, and not in the bank.  May
be you are a bachelor, frosty and forty.
Then, poor fellow, Saturday night is nothing
to you, just as you are nothing to anybody.
Get a wife, blue-eyed or black-eyed; but
above all, true-eyed.  Get a little home, no
matter how little, a sofa just to hold two, or
two and a half, and then get the two in it,
of a Saturday night, and then read this par-
agraph by the light of your wife's eyes, and
thank God and take courage."


THE SEX	

	THAT girls spell better than boys the an-
nual spelling matches at Washington prove. 
In some of the schools the perfect spellers
among the boys were last year two to four 
among the girls.
	A POOR servant-girl, living in Decatur,
Ill., has labored and saved for years, that
she might send money to Germany, to bring
over her father, mother, and five brothers
and sisters. At last they received a sufficient 
sum, all embarked on the fated steamer "At-
lantic," and all were lost.
	IN Mexico, Senorita Lozana recently pre-
sented herself for examination for a vacant
professorship, in the college of St. Catherine, 
and got it, over six male competitors.
	THE first grass widow was Mrs. Nebu-
chadnezzar, an ancient Queen of Babylon.
	A YOUNG lady, who does not manage her
h's with much skill, wants to know if there
is a "he" in love. There is generally.
	LOVELACE, in "Clarissa Harlowe," lays it
down as a rule that, to study the character of 
woman, you should "first find out what 
books she reads."	
	A GIRL in Indianapolis, who has $200,000,
advertises for sealed prposals for marriage. 
The postmaster has decided to charge her
double price for her box, as  it keeps one
clerk half of his time filling it up with pink-
tinted envelopes, and the whole office is
scented with musk and bergamot, like a per-
fumer's shop.


PRESIDENT GRANT refused to loan the
Reserve Fund of $44,000,000 to the Wall
street bankers, because it would be illegal.
His view of the matter is a praiseworthy
one.


STATISTICS SHOW that there are thirteen
thousand children in Wisconsin who do not
attend school this year. There is an average
of nineteen thousand in Utah who do attend
school.


THE POLAR bear does not hug like other
bears, but snaps and bites instead. Some-
times we meet with savage appearing hus-
bands, who, we imagine, have a look of the
Arctic region about them.


AMONG THE curiosities at the late Territo-
rial Fair, one of the most wonder-exciting,
to some of the young people, was a trio of
Chinese ladies, with their odd costumes and
odder chattering, one afternoon.


IN PHILADELPHIA, it has become the
fashion to present friends with boxes of nice-
ly cut flowers instead of bouquets. The la-
dies greatly prefer this method, and the
gentlemen are too polite to object.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1873.		No. 11.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	ACCOUNTS OF the bankruptcy of men of for-
tunes are becoming more and more frequent
in the news columns of the daily papers.
	KATE STODDARD has been indicted for
the murder of Goodrich. Being a woman,
and not wealthy, she will likely be con-
victed.
	PERE HYACINTHE, they say has aban-
donded the clerical garb. So he don’t
abandon his wife wo can overlook the
other.
	A WESTFIELD, Mass., post-office clerk
has been arrested for stealing registered
letters. Why will young men place them-
selves in the way of temptations?
	A NATIVE of Japan was lately arrested in
San Francisco; his crime was burglary.
He was the first of his race ever arrested in
that city, but will probably not be the last.
	A FAVORITE actress of New York, Miss
Agnes Ethel, was lately married to Fran-
cis W. Tracy, of Buffalo. The most sensible
part perhaps, ever played by the winsome
maiden.
	AIR EXCHANGE publishes as an item of
news, that “Currency is scarce.” We won-
der at this, for the story is so old, we
thought oyery body knew it, almost every-
where.
	THE CHINAMEN at Mokelumo Hill, Cali-
fornia, quarrelled  got mad, and want
to burn up the town; but the white citizens
stand guard and don’t let them. Cruel
white men!
	A WAR has lately broken out in Panama,
between Nerra, the present President, and
General Cornoza, recently deposed from
that office. They can’t both fill the same
position, so they quarrel about it.
	SINCE THE financial panic, which com-
menced in New York, it is estimated that
from 8,000 to 10,000 persons have been
thrown out of work. And no work moans
no bread for most people who will work
now-a-days.
	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held its fourth anniversary meeting on
the 13th ult., in Boston. A large audience
assembled, of which, fully two thirds are
reported tn have been men. The women’s
cause progresses.
	REPORTS of the  Farmers’ Convention,
organized in Chicago lately, show that
favorable results are likely to accrue from
the resolutions adopted and the questions
discussed, which will prove advantageous
to farm laborers generally.
	THE CARLISTS of Spain have been carry-
ing off women at Vera for seamstresses, to
make uniforms.  Among those stolen, was
a young woman, who was the owner of a
dowery of $35,000. The Carlists are evi-
dently no respecters of persons.
	BISHOP DEVERE, of the French scttle-
ment, St. Pierre, was recently assassinated
while at prayer in the sacristy of the chapel
of St. Jean de Dieu. Safety from violence
is not to be anticipated, even in what is con-
sidered the most sacred sanctuary,
	AN ACCOUNT is given in a late paper, of a
[Solumn 2]
little boy living some where in New York,
who went to Sabbath School in the morning
and recited two hundred verses from the
Testament; and in the afternoon caught fish
enough to stock a river. If that boy lives,
he will, without doubt become a minister,
or an officer of public trust some day.
	DR. MCCREADY testified in the Stokes
trial lately that he believed Fisk died of
the narcotic drugs administered and not of
the wound. And Dr. Carnochan testified
that whether the wound was fatal or not,
the immediate cause of death was coma.
Couldn’t they prove that Charley Goodrich
came to his death by  an over dose of
whisky?
	IT HAS been understood that after
the present instant, in conseqlittlee of
the late financial failures, the wages of em-
ployes on some of the railroads in the
States will be reduced from 15 to 20 per
cent. If care and responsibilities de-
crease in proportion with the wages, there
will be a continued round of accidents to
record.
	THE “MARY E. Poe,” a large stern wheel
vessel, was recently burned on the Missis-
sippi river, ten miles above Osceola, Arkan-
sas. The pilot, Hans Cowan, was burned
badly before he left his post. Out of 65
passengers, only four were reported missing
after the occurrence. That speaks better
for the officers of the “Poe,” than if the
clerk’s report had been “all lost.”
	GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN arrived in New
York a short time since, from Europe;
remained about a week, and having become
disgusted with the ways of the country in
that time, sailed away again, leaving for-
ever, he said. But the world in its revo-
lutions will be most likely to roll him back
again.
	A LITTLE five year old daughter of Wes-
ley Bennett was at play with her brother in
a stubble field that was being burned, in
Cana, California, on the 17 ult., when the
flames overtook her and burned her so
badly that she died soon afterward. Every
accident of the kind above stated, should
be a warning to others, to avoid the ap-
proach of danger.
	A MEMBER of the Homeopathic Medical So-
ciety of the State of Pennsylvania, Dr. Jacob
G. Wiestllng, lately tendered his resig-
nation; announcing that he would not
belong to a society which admitted women
to membership. His resignation was read-
ily accepted on the condition that his dues
for the current year should be paid. Any
society might congratulate itself on so
happy a riddance.
	AN ENGLISH stock raiser paid $40,000 for
one cow at a recent sale, at New York Mills,
near Utica, N. Y. and another man lately
paid $50,000 for a trotting horse. To en-
courage improvement in the quality of
stock is praiseworthy, to say the least; but
the extravagance of woman need not longer
be hooted at, since some men can afford to
gratify their own ambitious vanity by pay-
ing such prices as the above, for a fancy
cow and a fine horse.
	MEMPHIS STILL groans under the burden
of the terrible plague with which she is
{Column 3
afflicted. As late as the 22nd ult., loud
calls for help were made by officers of the
city, they testifying that the yellow fever
was not abating and that more help than
ever was required. Donations were re-
qested from all sympathizers with suffering
humanity, to assist in paying the expenses
of the sick; to be sent to A. D, Longstaff,
President of the Howard Association, Mem-
phis, Tennessee. Helping hands should not
be withheld. What city can judge when
her own time of suffering may commence?
	A CORRESPONDENT at Lake George,
writes thus of a sensible girl: “We have
a young lady here, the daughter of Colonel
Montgomery, U. S. A., who can row a boat
better than most men She is a girl of
splendid physique and healthy tone of
mind. Without regard to her complexion,
she goes out on the water morning, noon
and evening. Fortunately for her, the sun
beautifies and does not disfigure, for she
only looks fresli and rosy, without any tan
or redness. The girls who are passing the
season in fine dresses and only take piazza
exercise because their dress unfits them for
any other, may well envy Miss Montgomery
the pleasurable recollections she will carry
with her of her summer at Lake George.”
	AT PROSPECT Park Brooklyn, the colossal
bust of John Howard Payne, author of “Home
Sweet Home,” was recently unvailed and
presented to the Park, in the presence of a vast
concourse of people. The bust is mounted
on a highly polished granite pedestal, being
itself a bright bronze. On the occasion of
its being unvailed, exercises of a pleasing
and appropriate nature are reported to have
been performed; among which is mentioned
the singing of “America” by a chorus
of six hundred children accompanied
by music; the reading of a poem com-
posed for the occasion by John George
Saxe and an address by Mr. Do Witt. The
song of “Sweet Home,” short and simple as
it is, has been the single, beautiful, uncon-
scious immortalizer of the name of its
author.
	IT IS always worth while to interest chil-
dren and teach them good principles by
telling them good, sensible stories, or talk-
ing with them about the beautiful lives of
the pure and honorable who have lived
upon the earth. The following instance is
related in the “Floral Cabinet:” A gentle-
man tells that many years ago, he was on a
visit to the Isle of Man, and during his
walks he strolled into the quiet church-
yard, where reposed the bodies of many a
faithful anil humble Christian. Near a
grave in the corner of the church-yard he
noticed a lady with a little girl (the latter
about twelve years of age), to whom she
was relating the story of the dairyman’s
daughter, whose remains lay beneath their
feet. As the lady proceeded with the nar-
rative, he noticed the little girl lift up her
eyes filled with tears, and heard her say
that she would try and be as good as the
dairyman’s daughter had been. After
planting a beautiful lily on the grave, they
walked slowly away. The gentleman, upon
making inquiry, found that the lady was
the Duchess of Kent, and the little girl her
daughter, The latter is now the Queen of
England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE DEAD SEA— A MONUMENT.
	
	Though “dead,” it is a living Monument.
'Tis peerless, archless. towerless, and though
Devoid of every architectural
Embelishment, it justly claims to be
The prince of monuments in Palestine.
	It is a monument of Justice, and
Of righteous doom of crime and wickedness—
A speechless, speaking monument of wrath
Divine poured out on guilitines
Of dark abominations Monitor
Of warning to the generations past—
The present, and to all that are to come
	It stands where stood the “Cities of the Plains"—
Where Sodom and Gomorrah, steep'd in sin.
Were first devoured by fire, then swallow’d up!
	Its dense, saline preserving properties
Are morally significant of the
Great purpoes of God concerning sin—
Whene’er iniquity attains its full,
To sweep it with destruction’s bosom, and
To ultimately purity the earth.
	O’er cliffs precipitous—thro’ winding trails—
Rocky activities and frightful steeps—
At times, in zig-zag course, to cut the heights
That otherwise were inaccecssible,
O'er looking dark abysses—gaping chasms,
And sometimes beautiful sequstered deals,
Where Nature most successfully has made
Attempts at wild and grand sublimity;
We went in search of this strange monument,
And found it nestled quietly beneath
Judea’s mountains, on a sterile plain,
Where solitude in solemn silence reigns.
	This Sea, when seen as we beheld it—’neath
The cloudless monday sun, “is beautiful.
The lucid rays appeared on crystaline
To fall, creating myriads of gems
That sparkling, glowed with dazzling brilliancy,
As though the Sea’s smooth crest were overrpressed
With little shining pearls—most bounteously,
To crown with gaiety the briny deep.
	We gazed upon the Sea: ’Twas motionless,
As in reverence for the Almighty power
Of Deity, whose awful mandate called
It into being. In deep silence wrapped—
Without a sound of moving waters, or
The gentle murmur of a stirring wave,
All, all is silence, and this silence speaks
Far more impressively than uttered tones.
	"'Tis God’s own Monument, and proof against
The wreck of Ages, and the waste of Time.
					MISS ELIZA R. SNOW
JERUSALEM, March 3, 1873.


R.S. REPORTS.

	Secretary Miss M. A. Jenkins reports the
sixty-eighth meeting of the Senior and
Junior C. R. A., held October 11th, 1873,
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms. The
secretaries of the Young Ladies Associations,
of the 4th and 8th Wards read reports of
meetings held. Pride and extravagance
were spoken of, and the sisters were warned
against them. Improvement in knowledge
and grace was the principal subject upon
which instructions were given.


[Column 1]	
			I CAN'T.

	"I Can't" is a word we often hear, some-
times from the lips of a poor, tired body,
sometimes from one whose care and mental
labors have almost exhausted the brain. "I
Can't" we hear, as mother lays down her
unthreaded needle, "I Can't," says a non-
active one, whose powers have always
depended on another, and has idly lain.
"I can't, toil as you do, if I never have
a home," are the words of your borrowing
neighbor.
	"I Can't," never wrote a piece for the
paper. "I Can't" pay you, now sir, when
the banks have all broken. "I Can't help
it now, I did it when I was mad;" and "I
Can't" we hear every day from some people.
Then, what is the matter with "I Can't?"
"I Can't" the father, mother, and son, are
for ever idle and nothing is done. But
shall we all be called idlers? No! Mother,
tired body, rest! Let me assist you to

[Column 2]
accomplish your wise plans, that you may
long live to bless your child. Let me share
your cares, to ease your brain. Let me
sew and read for you, to rest your eyes.
But Mrs. Idler, braid your straw, and
make your hats, and be a producer of the
comforts of life; if you do not like to
be called lazy. And do not snuff up your
nose at "I'll Try," till it is so puggy that
you are ashamed to look in the glass.
	Get at your work early in the morning,
if you want to put money in the Savings
Bank. and save your paper rags if you want
papers to read. Build a fence around your
farm if you do not want your crops har-
vested by your neighbor's cows; and be
always well employed if you want a friend
in need; and write for the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, if you have better ideas than these;
and remember the Mormon Creed, "Mind
your own business." Pull your own garden
weeds. Controll your ugly temper. Don't
provoke your neighbor. If you will do all
this, dear reader you will have a friend in
misfortune, respect in old age, and a hope
beyond the grave. Make friends with "I'll
Try," who will do better than "I Can't."
	Let us hear from "I'll Try."
	Dear Reader, I am sorry that I am so busy
just now, but "I'll Try" will take the time
to see if she can find something that will
interest you. Suppose I tell you something
of myself. When I was a little child, it
was very hard for me to learn, but necessity
compelled me, and a thought, "I'll Try,"
came to my mind, and to wake the mind
from a stupor and lethargic state, was the
work I set about. Hard tugging, and slowly,
I gained the ascendency, little by little
only.
	There was a feeble whispering within my
heart, that said, "There is a future that you
must prepare for;" and then Pride stepped
forth and said, "I'll Try to finish my work."
Perseverance was the only chance for the
salvation of an existence I already had, and
to live was a visible fact, upon which I
could not shut my eyes. Then reason
taught me, that it was better to live pro-
perly, to be a vessel of honor, than one of dis-
honor, and many a lesson I've learned by
bitter experience which was the result of
"I'll Try." I was not cradled in riches
from a child to womanhood! Had I been,
perhaps my hands would have been too
white to soil, my frame too delicate to bear
burdens, and my petted and pampered
spirit, too morose and pompous to be
chided, and taught and trained, in a proper
manner; and thereby my propelling powers
against the tide of life would have been
blunted. I was bereft of parents at an early
age. Was this a misfortune, or a blessing
in disguise?
	Dear reader, I have since learned to
acknowledge the hand of God in all things,
although I have always felt that the sweets
of my existence was then abstracted and
supplanted with stern realities. Parents
generally remove the brambles and briars
from beneath the little one's feet, and place
beneath their aching heads downy pillows.
I have often thought of parents, when I
have stepped upon the thorn. By their
loss I've  learned a self-support. Did my
brain still sleep? No; it had to waken to a
life of activity. I learned A, then B, and
that twice two was four; I then chewed
the corners off the book called grammar,
and left it to digest—looked at the geogra-
phy, and concluded that the best way to
learn it was to travel. But I have tried to
sail in my own latitude. I did not like to
go too far North, because it was too ice-

[Column 3]
burgy, and I did not like to go too far
South for I always had a dread of too hot
water, and I did not like to go too high up,
for I was afraid the air would be so light
that my brain would be troubled with
vanity. I thought, "I'll Try, to seek my
own level." I never studied romance, for
I concluded there was enough of that in my
own nature. "I'll Try" has surmounted
many difficulties, and is still waring with
the flesh, in hopes to maintain her expecta-
tion sof her parents who left her to try.
	But, dear reader, before I leave you,
I will tell you that by my own industry, I
am furnished with a comfortable home, and
am wrsting by a warm fire which are the
results of
					"I'LL TRY."
Oct. 18th, 1873.


RULES OF CONVERSATION FOR
		YOUNG LADIES.

		CONCLUDED.
	There is great danger of the young and
ardent doing injustice to their companions,
by magnifying trifles, drawing large con-
clusions from small premises, and judging
from a partial knowledge of facts. How
often have we seen a young girl, all eager-
ness to tell some extraordinary thing about
a companion, and representing some trifling
occurrence as the most atrocious ill conduct;
when, the very next hour, perhaps, has
brought to light some circumstance that
changes entirely the whole aspect of the
case, and shows that all her excitement was
wasted on a mistake. It is a good rule nev-
er to believe anything on mere report, that
is inconsistent with what you already know
of a person. Consider how much more prob-
able it is that there is some error in the state-
ment, than that a trustworthy man or woman
should do something entirely out of charac-
ter. When some false rumor about yourself
or family reaches your ear, instead of being
provoked by it, lay it up as a lesson against
believing what you hear reported of others.
	Talking ironically is sometimes indulged
in to such an excess as to become very tire-
some to the hearers. A little dash of irony
enlivens conversation, and when well and
sparingly introduced it is pleasant enough;
but some girls have such a habit of it, that
on all occasions, to persons of all ages, all de-
grees of intimacy and acquaintance, on all
subjects, whether grave or gay, they will
answer you in that strain. All reverence for
age and superior wisdom, and all sense of
propriety are sacrificed to the indulgence of
this propensity, whilst they are unconscious
of its being in excess. To make the whole
strain of conversation ironical, is like serv-
ing up a dinner composed wholly of gravies,
sauces, and condiments without one substan-
tial dish. In like manner all jesting, banter-
ing, and quizzing should be very sparingly
indulged in, and with constant reference to
the feelings of others, or you may inflict a
wound before you are aware of it.—"English
Paper."


HUSBANDS AND WIVES.—Happiness can
only be secured by that constant tenderness
and care of the parties for each other which
are based upon warm and demonstrative
love. The heart demands that the man
shall not sit reticent, self-absorbed, and
silent in the midst of his family. The
woman who forgets to note and provide for
the peculiarities of her husband's tastes and
wishes renders her home undesirable for
him. In a word, ever-present and ever-
demonstrative gentleness must reign, or
else the heart starves.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[First column]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	CHILDREN EATING.—Whenever a parent
sees a child come to the breakfast-table, nib-
ble a little, then go away, there is solid
ground for apprehension of coming ill in
some form or other. This want of appetite
for breakfast may come on very slowly; it
may be weeks before it is decided enough to
be marked; so much the worse for the child,
because greater will be the difficulty in right-
ing things.
	If children are going to school, eating
should be made compulsory, or brain diease
will follow, sooner or later, for the brain
must be nourished, or restless sleep follows,
and in its train dreams, nervousness, cold
feet and hands, with severe debility.
	All school children should have plenty of
good wholesome food for breakfast and din-
ner, with all the fruit and berries they can
get afterwards as desert; if not these, then
no desert at all. A speedy and easy way to
remedy meal-time nibbling is to begin with
a supper of bread and butter, and one cup of
hot milk and water, and nothing else; allow 
not an atom of anything to be eaten between
meals, and compel them to be in bed by nine
o'clock. Within a week a hearty breakfast
will be the result, with an increasing vivac-
ity, activity, life and enjoyment.—"Chris-
tian Weekly."
	THE HOUSE will be kept in continual tur-
moil when there is no toleration of each
other's feelings, no meek submission to in-
juries, and no soft answer to turn away
wrath. If you lay a single stick of wood in
the grate, and apply fire to it, it will go out;
put on another stick, and they will burn;
and half a dozen and you will have an effec-
tive blaze. There are other fires subject to
the same condition. If one member of a
family gets into a passion, and is left alone,
he will cool down, and possibly be ashamed
and repent. But oppose temper to temper,
let one harsh answer be followed by another,
and there will soon be a blaze which will
enwrap them in its burning heat.
	WHAT COMSUMPTIVE NEED.—The late
Dr. Marshall Hall, of England, said: "If I
were seriously ill of consumption, I would
live out doors day and night, except in rainy
weather or mid-winter; then I would sleep
in an unplastered log-house. Physic has no
nutriment, gasping for air cannot cure you,
monkey capers in a gymnasium cannot cure
you. What consumptives want is air, not
physic—pure air, not medicated air—plenty 
of meat and bread."
	HOW TO IRON PANTS, COATS, ETC.--Pants
can be made to look very nicely after wash-
ing them by brushing clear from all particles
of line, turn wrong side out, press all the
seams with a hot flat over a press-board,
turn back to the right side, wet a piece of
white muslin in clear water, rinsing out,
spread over a portion of the pants (which
have previously been folded smoothly), iron
over the muslin until completely dry, re-
move, wet again, put over a new place and
iron again; do this until the whole surface
has been gone over.
	GREEN TOMATO PICKLES.—To every gal-
lon of sliced tomatoes add two tablespoons-
ful of salt, and let them stand over night.
Do not pour off the liquor, but add two-thirds
of a pound of sugar, one pint grated horse-
radish, two tablespoonsful of mustard. Put
a weight on the top and set near the fire or
in a warm place until they become sour,
when they should be kept in a cool place.
The juice of the tomatoes forms the vinegar,
and if some are partly ripe it is all the bet-
[Second column]
ter. No scum rises on the top, and they will
keep a long time.
	LEMON JELLY CAKE.—Two cups of sugar,
one small cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet
milk, two and one-half cups of flour, four
eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-
half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in thin layers.
For the jelly take the juice and rind of three
lemons, or five if small, one pound of sugar,
one-quarter pound of butter, six eggs; beat
together and scald like custard. When cool
spread between the cakes. Ice the top.
	DEAD SHOT FOR INSECTS.—Strong alum
water is a sure death to bugs of any descrip-
ion. Take two pounds of pulverized or crys-
tal alum, and dissolve in three quarts of
boiling water, allowing it to remain over the
fire until thoroughly dissolved. Apply, while
hot, with a brush, or, what is better, use a
syringe to force the liquid into the cracks of
the walls or bedstead. The pulverized alum
is worth about 50 cents a pound, and that
in crystal from 15 to 20—a cheap remedy.
The latter requires a little longer time to
dissolve. Of course an experiment to verify
the claim above made, can be made by ap-
plying a mere fraction of the quantities above
named. A less perfect cure for insect pests
is to scatter the powdered alum freely in
places where they abide. Powdered borax,
scattered thinkly where Croton bugs and cock-
roaches travel or abide, will expel them at
once. It is a sure expulsion for the Croton
insect. Almost all strong saline solutions are
efficacious in the destruction of these house-
hold pests, which are both destructive and
annoying, and the mixture of alum or any
other material need not necessarily be hot.


TO TEACHERS.
	The following hints which may be prof-
itable to many young teachers, and scholars,
also, for they should be as suggestive to the
latter as to the former, we clip from the
"American Journal of Education."
	Take care of your health. By this is
not meant only avoidance of severe colds,
for every person will be careful here, nor
caution against dangerous and contagious
diseases.
	It is the "little foxes that spoil the
vines." it is the little irregularities that
interfere with the success of teacher or
pupil.
	Improper food, improper times or quanti-
ties, resulting in dyspepia or any form of
indigestion, will prevent clearness of men-
tal activity and success in any study.
	If every member of school or college had
at the start a good knowledge of himself
hygenically, so as to guard against constitu-
tional ailments, half the labor in getting
an education would already be accomplished.
	"Do not worry!" It is easier to say this
than it was for the writer to practice it
when he first taught school!
	Night after night was passed without
sleep; visions, before the morbidly excited
brain, would pass and repass, as the battles
of the school room were fought over again.
The result was bad on teacher and scholars.
And yet there is no royal road to self-con-
trol in this respect.
	One suggestion, however: The teacher
should have got cheerful company out of
school hours, and not shut himself up like a
hermit to brood over troubles! Take out-
door exercise; go among the people; visit
the homes of the pupils; seek congenial
society at all events, and have faith in your-
self and your God, and troubles of this kind
will vanish.


[For the Exponent.
		SING TO THE BABIES.

	Sing to the babies! lay upon the cool pil-
lows or cuddle them tenderly upon your
breast, and sing soft and low the gentle
strains which shall linger in the soul, when
childhood, with all its appealing helpless-
ness, its confiding innocence, its sweet won-
derment at seeming vastness of the opening
life which in youthful eyes looks so alluring,
has flown forever.
	When all that seemed so desirable has
come to appear as worthless clay, when care-
worn and world-weary, what untold sweet-
ness is in the memory of the songs which
lulled to sleep in infancy when mother hung
over the cradle with eyes filled with celes-
tial tenderness, and voice laden with such
soothing softness that baby grief fled far
away and earth seemed a veritable paradise.
	When the sun sets and languid twilight
makes little eyelids heavy, and the day's
unceasing activity has wearied the pattering
feet, then all other matters should, if possi-
ble, be laid aside, and mother should be able
to give her entire attention to the children.
Lave the tired limbs in tepid water, robe in
sleeping-garments, fold the little hands lov-
ingly and teach the lisping voice to give
thanks to God, or confess the little indiscre-
tions. Do not fail to teach the little one to
pray, for, were there truly no tender angels,
no kind Heavenly Father to listen, prayer,
the utterance of his own peculiar and per-
sonal needs and aspirations, sets the child
face to face with himself, and is one great
step toward the all-important and oft-repeat-
ed lesson, "Know Thyself." Then sing in
the spirit of thanksgiving and meekness and
the child, sinking to sleep in so holy and
peaceful an atmosphere will imbibe a rever-
ence for the Creator, a purity of soul which
all the varied scenes of after life can never
wholly obliterate.
	Even vice and misery cannot drown the
sweet influence which, under such circum-
stances, will be the pearl to redeem the mire
of a mistaken life; and in the happiest con-
ditions a memory so sweet that wealth and
fame could not buy it.
	It will bear with it, for mother's sake, a
deeper tenderness and respect for woman-
kind, a firmer trust in Divine Providence,
than years of study and observation. And
Oh, the lonely infant hearts cheered, the
doubting ones comforted, the rebellious
ones soothed by being folded close in moth-
er's loving embrace and listening to the low
music of her voice!				L. L. D.


KNOWLEDGE OF COMMON THINGS.—Car-
lyle laments that when he was a boy he had
no teacher to instruct him as to the nature
and qualities of the things about him, such
as trees, rocks, grasses, water — to talk
to him about the stars, and show him
about the constellations, etc. That lamenta-
tion is one very many have to make. In-
deed, we sometimes think that education
ought to begin somewhat at the other end
of it. That is, that we should be taught
earlier of the things that are nearest to us.
Here is the ground we tread on, and the
dust we kick up when we walk. What
child, yes, or what man, can tell us of what
it consists, where it comes from, or how
made? The grass we walk over, the stones
which boys throw at the geese, what do they
know of the substance of these stones? These
are the last things we learn. Ought not
this method to be reversed? Should we
not learn, first of all, about the things which
are right under our eyes, and under our
feet?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

[Column 1}
	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horn, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 1, 1873.


     AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.

	Like most journals of distinguished aims for
good and useful ends, the EXPONENT has met
with difficulties in struggling to establish a
permanent basis, by awakening the sympa-
thies and securing the co-operation of those
who should feel most interest in its behalf.
Yet, notwithstanding all the besetments it has
had to encounter, its course so far has been un-
usually successful, and its present prospects
are bright and encouraging.
	The following list of names should imply
that already its friends are not few. It is de-
sired however, that others be added, until at
least one lady in each settlement in the Terri-
tory, shall be known as an acting agent for the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Officers of Relief Socie
ties, where no agents, or insufficient numbers
have yet been appointed,are politely solicited to
select capable,active women, who will be pleas-
ed to act and forward their names as agents.
Bishops, postmasters, and all good men, will
please remember and consider that an especial,
respectful and standing invitation is extended,
for them to use their influence to increase the
circulation and assist the progress of this little
journal.
	Should mistakes appear in the following list,
corrections will be cheerfully received and
published.
			AGENTS.
			Salt Lake Ctiy.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  "	Margt. P. Young,	  "	Amanda Kimball
  "	Lily Staines,		  "	Elizabeth Davis,
  "	Sarah Smith,		  "	Hampton, 16th
  "	Mary J.Tliomson,				Ward,
  "	Margaret Steel,	  "	Sarah E. Smith,
		   Miss Sarah E. Russell.
[Column 2]
		CORRESPONDENTS.
  "	Laura Miner,		  "	E.B. Wells,
  "	A. B, Smith,		Miss Mary A. Cook.
		   Oneida County, Idaho.
Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
  "	Mary Rich, Paris.
			 Rich County. 
  "	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
			Cache County.
  "	M. A. Mauglian, Logan,
  "	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield. 
		    Box Elder County.
  "	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			Davis County.
  "	Ann Clark, Farmington
  "	Aurelia Rogers,
  "	Margaret Randell, Centreville,
  "	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
  "	Susan Grant,		     "
  "	Sylvia Clark,		     "
		    Salt Lake County.
  "	–––– Higgins, West Jordan,
  "	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot- 
		tonwood.
			Utah County.
  "	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
  "	–––– Harrison,			     "
			Juab County.
  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, 
  "	Ann Pitchforth, Nephi. 
		     Sanpete County.
  "	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
		City,
  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
		     Millard County.
  "	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
  "	Belinda M. Pratt,	"
Miss Mary Callister,	"
		     Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
  "	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
			Iron County.
  "	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith,	"
			Kane County.
Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
  "	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
		Cedar City.
		   Washington County.
  "	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
		St George,
  "	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


SPLINTERS.

	In Savannah, Georgia, they are experi-
menting with female street car conductors.
......It is said that base-ball professionals are
better paid than nine-tenths of the minis-
ters......In Lake Minnetonka, Minnesota, a
valuable guano island has lately been dis-
covered......The hair is worn very plain
and low on the neck by ladies just returned
from Europe and it is said to be a style "all
the rage” in Paris......The Agricultural
College of Ohio has one female student......
Great varieties of game abound in the fields
of Louisiana, and more abundant this season
than at any previous time since the war......
Lately, two babies were sent by express
several hundred miles in Oregon, arriving
all safe......The Emperor of Brazil is cred-
ited with standing six feet, four inches, in
his boots......President Grant and three
Generals, Sherman, Sheridan and Hooker,
narrowly escaped being run over by a coal
train in Pittsburg the other day......General
Beauregard met with a slight accident by
his horse falling under him, while riding
over the Bull Run battle field recently, for
the first time since the war......A woman in
Paris keeps ball dresses to rent out by the
day, week or month, and makes money at
it..........Queen Victoria and ex-Empress
Eugenie have been visiting together at
Inverlock Castle and the summit of Ben-
Nevis......The yellow fever is said to be
subsiding at Memphis Tennessee.........A
grand evangelical conference of religious
men has been in session in New York; all
Protestant sects, and all lands where Chris-
tianity has been preached were represented.
......Immense amounts of gold have been
sent to America from the Bank of England.
......Strong hopes of a monarchy are enter-
tained in France......The total number of
paupers in London on the last day of Au-
gust of the present year, was 98,707......
There is a singular natural curiosity in a
Lake in Vermont, consisting of one hun-
dred and fifty acres of floating land, which
is covered with cranberries and has trees
growing upon it fifteen feet high.........The
Paris man "Modiste," Worth, employs
twenty women to make toilets; he never
cuts, fits or sews himself, but merely super-
intends......Russian female students are
refused the right of pursuing the study of
medicine......The “Daily Globe," of Boston,
as discharged all its female compositors,
nd is now, for the first time, run exclu-
sively by males......Spain demands of
England the Vittoria and the Almanza......
Thirty women are employed on the daily
press of New York.


IMPORTANCE OF READING

   No matter how obscure the position in the
life of an individual, if he can read, he may,
at will put himself in the best society the
world has ever seen. He may converse
with the greatest heroes of the past; with all
the writers in prose and poetry. He may
learn how to live, how to avoid the errors
of his predecessors, and to secure blessings,
present and future, to himself. He may
reside in a desert, far away from the habita-
tions of man; in solitude where no human
eye looks upon him with affection or
interest, where no human voice cheers him
with its animating tones, if he has books to
read he can never be alone. He may
choose his company, and the subjects of
conversation, and thus become contented
and happy, intelligent, wise and good.
Young people should heed these truths.


﻿ON “GETTING UP.”

	Once you have fixed your hour of rising,
keep to it with more firmness because of
the difficulties to be overcome; for this
troublesome couch of ours contains in the
morning such an amount of magnetic fluid
that it keeps us back, I do not say against
our will, but with a not unpleasing force
which seems to fasten us to the pillow. I
acknowledge we are now in the presence of
our most terrible enemy, and our pillow is
that enemy. When we would quit it in
the morning, it lulls us with the artful tones
of a siren, and caresses us with the utmost
tenderness. It seems to say, Why leave
me? Are you not well off here? It is so
cold out of bed! There is but one way to
secure a victory, and that is a prompt,
decisive act, a military charge, a jump out
of bed. Route the enemy by a vigorous
"sortie," and victory is yours. When I
meet a man who has the courage to rise at
an early hour every morning, I straight-
way conceive a high idea of the firmness
of his character.—"Archbishop of Rheims."


PHYSIOLOGY.

	It is not the object of the writer to present a
code of physiological laws; but to call attention
to the necessity of having this branch of sci-
ence more generally taught in our schools.
	Human physiology is a history of the func-
tions (uses) of the various organs which 
constitute the human body, of their mechan-
ism, their dependencies upon, and relations to
each other.
	Great need exists with a majority of people of
all localities, of a knowledge of a correct system
of physiology. No person can understandingly,
apply gramatical or mathematical rules which
they have never learned. Neither can a per-
son make the most and best of life without
learning life's science, physiology, and under-
standingly applying its rules. To derive from
life the happiest results, is the object of all 
rational beings. The condition of  "the house
we live in” (the body) so materially affects all 
our life-interests that an understanding of its
parts and functions is of more than ordinary 
importance.
	A thorough system of co-operative education
would require iniatory lessons to be given at
home. Where can mild words be found in which
to refer to the inexcusable ignorance of so many
parents upon subjects which so vitally con-


cern their happiness and well-being, in their
present lives, and in their future generations?
	We study the biography of noted men and
women with interest, sometimes with profit;
but if one study must be neglected, it should
not be the study of our inner-selves, on which
depends so much of life, health, happiness,
longevity, and consequently so much of the
power of usefulness in earth-life.
	Reader, if you are acquainted with the laws
above referred to, you are required by the debt
you owe to humanity to teach them. Hygenic
table arrangements are among the most admir-
able and effective first lessons in this depart-
ment of science. Other reforms which these
laws require may be advantageously introduced
at the fireside, and in social neighborhood in-
tercourse.
	“The field is white and the laborers are few."
Dear reader, will you study and labor to help
to improve the condition of our kindred—the
human family? If so, you have the co-opera-
tion of
				   SARAH M. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿AN EYE OPENED.

	A lady writer in the East, gives an account,
of a recent visit to this city and an interview
with "Mrs Brigham Young No. 17." Her let-
ter commences thus; "Fresh from the blue
laws of the East, imbued with the idea that
"no good thing can come out of Nazareth," I
visited Salt Lake City with all my sympathies
enlisted for the woman that was struggling to
free herself from the hateful yoke which en-
thralled her. Calling, with some friends, one
evening, I found her at the best hotel in the
city—a hotel which for luxury, though not
for size, would compete with the Fifth Avenue
Hotel of N. Y. City. Mrs. Young No. 17 is
tall, has a good figure, fine features, black
hair and eyes, complexion rather pale, and at
first sight would be called a fine looking wo-
man. She wore a dress of gray, much trimmed
—would pass anywhere as a finely dressed
woman, and looked, altogether, not at all the
martyr I had expected to see."
	And after giving minute particulars of what
was said and what transpired during a visit of
some length, the writer thus concludes; "I
came away from Salt Lake City feeling that
my sympathy for No. 17 had been wasted; and
although I do not blame her for wishing to be
free from 'her' married life, I cannot help
thinking it would be 'just the same' were she
the 'only wife' of a 'good' and 'true' man."
	Many others who are wasting sympathy on
poor dejected women at Salt Lake, would do
well to call, and get their eyes opened.


TOO CHEAP.

	Woman has so long been regarded as either a
kitchen drudge, or a mere parlor ornament,
according as her position in society would allow,
that she has, generally speaking, come to great-
ly under value her own genuine worth. She
fails to realize that to an immeasurable extent,
the wealth, ambition, pride, strength, beauty and
glory of future generations, of future nations,
and in short, the future world, is based exactly
upon the price at which she values herself.
She is too easily won by the magnetic influence
of man's masterly power, and does not suffi-
ciently weigh the importance of bestowing her
woman's self upon one who is entirely worthy.
	The man who woos her may indulge occa-
sionally in a pipe or cigar, or even "a glass too
much!" But he loves her—at least he says he
does—and to her it sounds so sweet to hear him
declare it, that she "cannot spare the luxury of


believing." He visits the billiard saloon some-
times; but then, he praises her charms, her
voice, her beanty, perhaps her talents. He
spends his Sabbaths in running races instead of
attending church, yet is sure to throw aside
everything else for the sake of spending the
evening with her. He speaks irreverently of
honorable aged people, and often uses profane
language. But he is always polite and most
gentlemanly in his words and manners toward
her. Though his dress and the perfumes and
personal dainties in which he indulges, indi-
cate that he is something of a fop and a spend-
thrift; yet to her he is not at all selfish, and
lavishes upon her splendid, costly gifts and
is delighted to gratify her most extravagant
desires. No matter what he may appear in
the eyes of the world, he "lays himself out"
to please and entrap her; and she is vain and
foolish enough to be pleased and caught.
	O, Woman! why are you so weak! Why do
you not stand erect and free, the true being
which God designed you to be. It is your pre-
rogative, your legitimate right to make your
own choice in answering who shall be your
soul's companion, the father of your children.
How can you be so blind to your own interest
and the progress of humanity, as to allow your-
self to be so cheated and hoodwinked as to ex-
change the one priceless jewel with which God
has entrusted you, your soul-wealth, your queen-
ly self, for worse than nothing, the mere pledge
of love from a being worthy of your respect
and confidence!
	Better, a thousand times better, never to
marry at all, never think to fulfil the holy mis-
sion which it is your sacred right, under proper
circumstances, to fulfil, better to return to the
Heavenly Father as pure and spotless as He
sent you, than to become the mother of offspring
by a debauchee and a deceiver.
	When God had finished His work in forming
the world, He saw that it was good. He like-
wise would see all the works of His children
worthy of being pronounced good; and His
daughters have no license to run the risk of
doing poor work, by bringing to earth sons and
daughters begotten of inferior fathers.
	In brief, we simply mean—Young lady, do
not sell yourself so cheaply as a majority of
women have done and do. Do not marry
a man who is not really worthy of you, and be
sure that you are indeed worthy of one of the
best.


﻿	HOME AFFAIRS.

	AT A meeting of the EXPONENT Committee
of Consultation, held October 21st, Mrs. Ma-
rinda Hyde and Mrs. Phebe Woodruff were
chosen members of the Committee; also a num-
ber of ladies were appointed to act as agents.
	THE FINE hotel, known as the Clift House,
was burned on the night of the 24th ult. A
defective flue is said to have been the cause.
At ten minutes past ten the fire bell, at the
City Hall, rang out the alarm which speedily
brought fire engine, firemen and spectators to
the scene. The flames had already made so
much progress that though the firemen worked
nobly through the night, they barely saved
the walls from falling. The total loss was
supposed to be about $70,000.
	AMONG THE recent deaths in this city, is
brought to our notice that of little Julia Horne,
infant daughter of William S. and Julia Horne
Burton, which took place on the 24th ult.
Not quite a year since, we chronicled the death
of its mother, which occurred but a few hours
subsequent to the birth of the child. Now, as if
in answer to a call from her sainted mother, the
little one has thus early fled the scenes of morta


life. The sympathies of a large circle of friends
are newly awakened for the bereaved husband
and father and other near relatives, in conse-
quence of this second sad loss.


For the Exponent.
			MOTHER.

	TO THOUGHTLESS CHILDREN
	What name in the English language
brings such tender feelings with the mere
sound, as that of “Mother?” The most har-
dened person, when hearing or speaking it
at times, cannot help a flow of warm, loving
thoughts springing into the heart. When
sickness is in the family, whose untiring
hands are ever willing to perform every
little act of kindness that will lessen the suf-
ferings of the afflicted? Whose love soften-
ing every pang, makes smooth the thorny
path of life? It is Mother’s hand and Moth-
er’s love which sooth and lighten all the
burdens. It is to her we are indebted for the
good there is in us; for she sows the good
seed in the hearts of her children. Where
is the daughter who can be ungrateful to her
Mother? If there is one such, what an un-
happy life she must lead!
	Do not the great men of this world attri-
bute their success in a great measure to the
good teachings of their Mothers? The his-
tory of their lives will tell if they err in so
doing. Many persons seem to think that
her strength, like her love, is inexhaustable,
and that they can draw therefrom forever,
but take no pains to do anything that will
soften her labors, or smooth her path in life.
Let such a one lose her Mother. Oh! what
thoughts rush into the mind! Every unkind
word, every angry look, every ungrateful
act, will come thronging into the memory,
crushing the already breaking heart. Where
can a more heart-rending scene be witness-
ed, than the father and children standing
beside the corpse of the wife and Mother?-
The memory of that sainted being will ever
be fresh in their hearts. In the solitude of
night they will see her loving face, hear her
gentle rebuke,or sweet words of praise; every
little act of kindness ever performed by her
will then be remembered and rendered
doubly dear, Her place can never be filled
by another; no matter how obliging, how af-
fectionate, a woman maybe, it is not Mother!
	Oh! then, take care of Mother while she
is with you. Every step that can be taken
to save her, let it be taken willingly; and in
her old ago, be to her a “friend” in every
sense of the word. Do not be afraid of over-
paying the debt of gratitude you owe her.
It can never be cancelled, worlds without
end.
	Are you a sou? remember, if you can, the
immeasureablo acts of kindness she has per- 
formed for your comfort. Are you a daugh-
ter? Who has planted in your heart the
seeds that will make honorable, virtuous
womanhood? Who is it, when you feel
tired, that will say, Oh, so gently! “Sitdown,
my child, I know you are tired; I will finish
now.” Who is willing to forego pleasure
that you may go out and enjoy yourself?
Every daughter in the 1 and, if asked these
questions, would answer, “My Mother!”
Oh, blessed word! what solemn thoughts
awaken at the mention of that holy name.
Girls, too much on your part cannot be done
for your Mothers. Listen to their counsels,
obey them implicitly, and they will make
you not only honorable members of society,
but, better still, honorable members of the
Kingdom of God.				P.A.M.
	RICHMOND, Oct. 1st.


﻿IF rich, be not elated; if poor, be not de-
jected.


.					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE AUTUMN WIND.

			I.
Speak for me, wind of Autumn,
Blowing over the moorland,
Over the crested billows,
Over the mountain summits,
Over the forest branches,
And chimneys of the town!
Speak for me, melancholy wind,
And say to suffering human kind::
The hopeful things that I might tell,
Had I a voice to fall and swell,
Like thine, upon the land and sea,
As all-pervading and as free..

			II.
Breathe gently in the cottage,
Murmur through door and keyhole,:
Or pipe in the oozy ingle,
Where, sitting with his loved ones,:
The poor man dreams of Fortune,
Or mourns his low estate!
And tell him, ere he goes to rest.
Of all Earth’s blessings, Love is best.:
That honest bread and strength and health
Are better than a Prince’s wealth,
And good men’s sleep a richer boon
Than all the gold beneath the moon.

			III.
Breathe soft in shady alleys.
Where lovers at the twilight
Sit under hawthorn branches
And paint the rosy future,
And tell them Youth and Beauty
Pass over like the spring;
But that if Love on virtue lean,
Time shall not dim its golden mean,
But light it on its earthly way,
Until the mortal shall decay;
Then lead it through the immortal door.
Where Love is young forevermore.

			IV.
Breathe gently, wind of Autumn,
To the exile and the captive,
Heart-smitten and desponding,
Dreaming of distant landscapes,
And joys forever vanish’d,
And home they love so well!
Tell them, whatever tempests roll,
To keep their summer in the soul,
And that the wrong which seems to stand
And overshadow all the land,
Is but a breath of vain endeavor;
While Right is Right, and lasts forever.


[Column 1]
						﻿[For the EXPONENT.
		WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	Many predict utter failure of the Woman
Suffrage movement because it has not al-
ready been accomplished, and because it
moves slowly. They argue that were it
a necessary step, and one destined to be
adopted at all, it would have been accom-
plished ere this.
	But I have proved to my own satisfaction,
from this very delay, that it is necessary
and inevitable, and when once adopted,
destined to be permanent. The gourd
which grew up in a night withered in a
day, while things which live long grow
slowly. In the natural order of things a
person must be prepared for responsible
positions before occupying them, for unless
her capacity is equal to her needs, she will
fail in her undertakings.
	Woman's long exclusion from educational
advantages and participation even by
unrestrained conversation in political affairs,
would argue an unqualified condition. Hav-
ing neither experience nor teaching, neither
practice nor theory, neither personal nor
general responsibility, the chances are that
had they been admitted to the full privi-
leges of citizenship at the first asking,
without argument pro or con, a great portion
of them would have been as fearful of
accepting their new privileges as certain
members of Congress are appropriating their
"back pay." They would so have dreaded
to be called "strong minded;" which
dreadful scandal affrights so many of Eve's
daughters and proves beyond argument
how low is the standard set up for them by

[Column2]
—I will not say men because they are so
sensitive about being "attacked" but no one
can find fault if I say by—Society.
	Again thousands would have gone on in
mammon and fashion worship, refusing to
arouse themselves to the dignity of their
new position; and many who did accept
willingly their privileges would seem much
like children playing with fire—knowing
not what to do with it. But the strong
opposition which the movement has met,
will arouse the idlest and most ignorant to
a sense of her important position, and
each new point at issue will educate and
prepare her for the responsibility which is
coming upon her, each new rebuff will make
her more determined and each fresh evi-
dence of her unprotected condition will
arouse her dormant energies and fit her, step
by step, to be her own guide, guardian and
defender.
	The friends of woman are right to be-
siege the doors of schools and colleges here-
tofore closed against her, for as fast as she
is fitted to bear them ably, there need be no
fear that she will not be called to new privi-
legs eand responsibilities; and surelyt hat is
fast enough to satisfy the most sanguine.
	This is speaking of woman in general but
suggests a particular case; the women of
Utah. Were they fitted and prepared
to appreciate and wisely use the franchise?
Can they claim superior education or natural
abilities? At least they do not, and yet I
think them quite able to make good use of the
ballot. Whatever the Territory affords of
educational facilities are open alike to men
and women, but their chief preparation for
the ballot lies in having so long and so
keenly felt the need of a weapon of self-
defense. The long years in which they
have borne the scorn and contumely of the
world at large, have matured them fast; for
suffering is a powerful teacher. The ladies
of Utah thus have been prepared to fully
realize the dignity and authority which the
franchise bestows, and none will dispute
that whosoever thoroughly realizes this
may be safely trusted to use it wisely.
	The new facilities afforded the press in
this Territory by the railroad, have brought
that also within the reach of woman; and
gladly does she avail herself of this means
to educate and vindicate herself. She is
justly tired of being misrepresented, mis-
understood and misjudged. She never
asked for the franchise but when it was
offered to her she accepted it gratefully,
and will now cling to it as to her life.
	Had the ladies of Utah made one tenth
of the exertions to gain citizenship that
their Eastern sisters have done, it is but
fair to conclude that the whole civilized
world and half the heathen would have
informed of the fact, and called to witness
the terrible state of tyranny on one hand and
rebellion on the other between the men and
women of Utah. And, truly, there would
have been nearly (though not quite) as much
truth in it as if applied to the Eastern States
to-day; for men in general do oppress
women in general even if unintentionally,
because the frame work of laws and the
network of customs under which they
live will have it so.
	There is a gradual improvement in the
code of laws for which women are truly
thankful; but they never can be quite just
until man and woman stand on a true level,
having equal rights, equal honor, equal
self-sovereignty. This, and not a reversion
of the old order, as some pretend to think—
is the aim of the so-called Suffrigists, and
it is a noble aim truly. That they will
eventually succeed is just as certain as that
their cause is just and their claims reasona-

[Column 3]
ble; but, to some, the joyful time may seem
slow of approach.
	If so, let them not wearily count the hours
and lengthen them with suspense, but to
lighten and hasten them, do something!
make preparation! lift themselves out of
the degradation of unthinking, unreasoning,
useless existence which some lead. Even if
you make mistakes and do things you would
like to recall, better that than sit with folded
hands and never learn what to do.
	Above all things do not be a slave to
fashion! She is a most despotic queen and
lays upon her subjects most grievous bur-
dens; in return for which graciousness she
demands the time, the talents, the con-
science and the health of her victims. Her
rewards are a restless craving for adulation
in youth, a sense of loss instead of gain in
middle life and a regretful, empty old age.
Poor wages truly.
	None need feel degraded by the necessity
of toil, for labor is honorable in the sight of
God who made it at once our expiation and
our elevation; but a life of idleness and
frivolity is degrading to man or woman;
and so long as idleness and helplessness are
the standards by which to measure woman's
ladyhood, just so long will she be a slave to
ladyism.
	All honor to the brave souls who would
correct this state of things, by putting into
her hands, and teaching her to use the
weapons of self-government.
	And here I cannot forbear a word in favor
of that able sheet "The Woman's Journal."
	It condemns fashion-worship, mammon-
worship and—man-worship. It advocates
perfect equality and not tyranny from either
man or woman; a mutual concession of
privileges; co-education of the sexes and all
such needed reforms; and while doing so,
discountenances all over-zeal and all incli-
nation to exhibit only one side of the
question; teaching temperate ardor and a
most unselfish devotion to the cause of
woman's advancement. 
						L. L. D.


﻿THE BEST LEARNING.—The learning 
which makes us acquainted with ourselves,
with the faculties of the human mind, with
Divine truth, which is plainly revealed,
with its power on the mind and heart, with
the concatenations of cause and effect, and
to understand our every-day duty, which
grows out of our wants and the want of
those about us, is learning of a better quality
than that which only enables us to call
things by different names, without giving
us a knowledge of their qualities for either
good or evil.


A CHILD'S FAITH.—In the Highlands of Scot-
land there is a mountain gorge 20 feet in width, and
200 feet in depth. Its perpendicular walls are
bare of vegetation, save in the crevices, in which
grow numerous wild flowers of rare beauty. Desir-
ous of obtaining specimens of these mountain beau-
ties, some scientific tourists once offered a Highland
boy a handsome gift if he would consent to be low-
ered down the cliff by a rope, and would gather a
little basket full of them. The boy looked wistfully
at the money, for his parents were poor, but when
he gazed at the yawning chasm he shuddered,
shrank back and declined; but filial love was strong
within him; after another glance at the gift, and at
the terrible fissure, his heart grew strong, and his
eye flashed, and he said, “I will go if my father
will hold the rope.” And then, with unshrinking
nerves, and heart firmly strong, he suffered his
father to put the rope about him, lower him into
the wild abyss, and to suspend him there while he
filled his basket with the coveted flowers. It was a
daring deed, but the faith in the strength of his
father's arm, and the love of his father's heart,
gave him courage and power to perform it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A BIT OF ITALIAN HISTORY.
	In spite of the disastrous defeat at Novara
by the Austrians in 1849, when Charles
Albert abdicated and was succeeded by his
son, the present King, the Sardinian mon-
archy retained a large fund of latent energy,
which displayed itself in judicial improve-
ments, and in the alliance against Russia
during the Crimean War. In 1859 came
the-wished-for opportunity, France, in con-
junction with Sardinia, defeated Austria on
the fields of Magenta and Solferino, and a
large portion of Italian soil was freed from
foreign sway, in spite of the treaty of Villa-
franca, which was signed before half the
aims of Cavour and other Italian pa riots
were accomplished. Next year came Gari-
baldi's romantic and most unsuccessful inva-
sion of the South, after which Victor
Emmanual was saluted as King of Italy.
In the Seven Week's War in 1866 Italy
sided with Prussia, and, though individu-
ally worsted at Lissa and Costozza, shared
in the success of her ally by receiving the
kingdom of Venetia. Finally, during the
Franco-German War of 1870, Rome was
occupied by Italian troops, the capital of
the kingdom was removed to the Eternal
City, and the long-deferred promise of Napo-
leon III. was realized, namely, that Italy
should be free, from the Alps to the Adri-
atic.—"R. N. Y."


[Column 1]
					[For the Exponent.
SCENES ON THE ISLAND OF TUBUAI
	SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN.
	Walking one morning, along the pleasant
footpaths on Tubuai, I was struck with the
beauty of the scenery. Large trees were
growing on either side of the narrow roads,
loaded with foliage of vivid green. Some
with large leaves the size of breakfast plates
and used by the natives for that purpose.
It is winter, thought I, at home; and here,
in this isolated world, nature dwells in all
her splendor and beauty! While thus in-
dulging my admiration, I found myself
standing near a bridge, built over a stream
of beautiful fresh water, a little distance
from the sea shore. A crowd of native chil-
dren had jumped from the bridge into the
water, and were diving about like so many
fishes. I was gazing upon them with sur-
prise and delight, when my eyes caught
sight of a little white girl among the dark
children; she looked like a lump of shining
gold in the dirt. I called her to come out
of the water; they all came to me, and I
inquired whose child she was. One of the
children answered, "Tamahina na Tavana,
na Tahiti." (Daughter of the Governor of
Tahiti.) I asked, "why is she on this
Island?" They replied that she was kept
by Metua fua amue," (Feeding mother.)
I told them to go and tell the woman to
come to the Mission House.
	Accordingly, she came, and brought the
child, about four years old. I inquired, (I
could then speak well in the Tahitian
tongue,) if it would not be good for the mis-
sionaries to take the little girl, and teach
her. She was pleased with the suggestion,
and consented at once. I then asked her to
tell me the child's history, and how she
came in possession of her. She said she had
learned from natives in Tahiti, that, when
the French Governor first came among the
Islands, he left a wife in France, Soon
after assuming the duties of his office he
took a native woman to live with him as a
wife, by whom he had two daughters. In
process of time he went home, and returned
with his lawful wife. On a certain occasion
[Column 2]
they were walking in the balcony, in
the upper story of their dwelling; a crowd
of natives were assembled about the house
below. The lady looking down among
them, espied a colored woman with a white
child in her arms. She was struck with
the appearance of the child; and charged
her husband with being its father! their
conversation was overheard; he dared not
deny it. She said to him, "Had you in-
formed me before my arrival that you had
children born here, I would have taken and
raised them as my own. But as you thought
to deceive me, I will have nothing to do
with them, and you must send them away
from this Island, to be raised." He heark-
ened to her voice; (as Abraham did to
Sarah s,) and sent them away. The little girl
was left with me. She wept sorely, for
being left with strangers, but soon became 
reconciled.
	While listening to the history, I thought
(though I dared not say it,) "That woman,
would believe in polygamy; she is a true
woman." I became greatly interested in my
little charge; a more beautifully organized
child I never saw! beautiful in form and
features; jet black hair, and eyes, fair skin,
with the slightest tinge of yellow. She was
introduced into a new life, which arroused
all her latent sensibilities. She was re-
quired to sit at the table and eat with a knife
and fork instead of sitting on the ground,
and handling her food with her fingers.
It was pleasing to see how fast her ideality
developed. The house was full of toys and
pictures which were given us in San Fran-
cisco. It was more than theatrical to listen
to her inquiries and remarks; every
thing must be explained or she would not be
satisfied. She soon learned to speak a little
English, and O, how amusing she was!
Her attachment to me, grew every day
stronger and she would not be happy out of
my sight. I had other children of native
birth, some half, some quadrnoos, some pure
blood whom my daughters were teaching.
I often walked out at the close of day, to en-
joy the cool sea breezes, while Sarah, (as I
called her) was playing with the other chil-
dren. I would slyly steal out, thinking
she might not miss me; never could I get
more than ten rods away ere I would hear
the patter of her little feet behind me. She
would not quite approach me, unless i
turned and gave her a smile of approbation;
then she would bound like an antelope!
First she would run ahead, then turn and
come back to meet me gamboling like a pet
lamb; crazy with joy, because I was not
displeased that she had followed me. We
changed her dress from a single slip or
"cooler," drawn around the neck with a
string, to dresses of our own fashions, short,
with pantlets. She felt the improvement,
as sensibly as any little human could;
and I remember the remark my daughter
Frances made, when we had dressed up the
children in our keeping, and taught them
to speak a few words in English; "Why,
realy," she said, "it seems like having 
visitors from Salt Lake!" They could sing
like nightingales! it was equal to having a
piano in the house when they would all
sing together. The time drew near for us
to leave that Island, go to Tahiti, and pre-
pare for our return to America. I was
pained at my heart, to leave the children;
I urged their parents and guardians to let
some of them come with us. "Oh no."
They would shed a flood of tears at the bare
idea; unless we would have let them come too;
which we gladly would have done, had the means
been at hand. I returned my little Sarah to her
guardian, having learned that the design of the
[Column 3]
Governor, was, to send both "daughters" to France,
to be educated.
	Twenty-two years have passed away; if she is
living I can comtemplate her in no other light
than a brilliant French lady, the admiration of all
who know her. Never does my mind revert 
to that Island but I think of the patter of hte
little feet and the golden child I saw in the water.
	Extract from the journal of Mrs. L. B. Pratt,
kept Feb. 1851. Copied October 18th, 1873.
BEAVER


IGNORANT MOTHERS.

	Science? Oh yes! and art too. There is a
great deal of both to be studied out in mak-
ing bread and washing dishes, and still more
in listening to and answering the questions,
the continuous, countless questions of the
children.
	Ever busy observers of natural objects, it
requires parents and teachers of good sense,
coupled with first class educations, to answer
their daily questions correctly. And because
parents and teachers, generally, are not in
possession of the necessary information for
the guidance of children in the observation
of nature, their innocent and natural inquis-
itiveness is commonly repressed instead of
being encouraged and directed aright.
	I confess my ignorance of the commonest
things about me, and that my eldest boy,
when not yet four years old, had often puz-
zled me in propounding questions which I
could not answer, concerning the simplest
things in daily use in my domestic work.
	"How is the water made, mother?" he
asked me one day. "It is made by Our
Father in Heaven, the great God, who made
us, and the earth we live on, and all things
by which we are surrounded," I answered
him. "Well, what does He make it out of?
What kind of stuff is in it?" were the next
inquiries made. And I was obliged to ac-
knowledge that I did not know, and could
not tell him. I could'nt even say as to
whether it was considered by scientific peo-
ple to consist of one substance, in its pure
state, or to be composed of a mixture of ele-
ments.
	That shows, I presume, that I have not
taken the time to read "Beth's Chemistry
of Common Things," in the children's paper,
for that, doubtless, has told all about the na-
ture of water, as well as many other useful
things that I know nothing about. How
many other mothers are raising up families
who are quite as ignorant in the way of
properly instructing them as I am? Is there
not a general need for a reformation in the
domestic realm in regard to the education
of mothers? Shall we not all, or nearly all,
agree that we have fallen into the way of
too much hard work, and too little genuine
study—of nature rather than of books? We
send our children to school and require that
they should be taught. Is it more requisite
that they understand things than that their
mothers should?				LINA.


WEBSTER said:—"If we work upon mar
ble it will perish; if upon brass, time wil
efface it; if we rear temples they will crumble
into dust; but if we work upon our immor-
tal minds—if we imbue them with princi-
ples, with the just fear of God and love of
our fellow men—we engrave on these tab-
lets something which will brighten through
all eternity."


HUMILITY does not consist in telling our
faults, but in bearing to be told of them; in
hearing them patiently and even thankful-
ly; in correcting ourselves when told—not
in hating those who tell us of them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES FROM MILLIE

		(Gathered for the Exponent,) 
	We mostly,too often forget the consequence 
of not keeping our mouths shut at proper
times. If we cultivate a habit of breathing
through the nostrils rather than the mouth
the latter will naturally be less frequently
opened, and we will thus become more
healthy, and as fewer things of a disagree-
able nature will be uttered, we shall be more
happy. Try it. Keeep your mouth shut.
	Nearly all the annoyances from which spring
the heart-burnings and strife with which
the world is vexed, are petty trifles which
arise from ominous nothings. They are but
forgotten seeds, which, scattered by the
wayside, spring up in after life in the shape
of apathy or distrust. They are little sparks,
which smoulder and heat, and when least
expected, kindle into a flame.
	And these peace disturbers, heartrenders,
and sometimes soul- destroyers, might be
avoided, mostly altogether, if people could
learn that wisdom which would tell them
when to keep the mouth shut.
	But, then, there are some hearts so over-
sensitive that nothing can be said which
does not in some way chafe or wound them,
no matter how pure the intentions of the
speaker may be. A great deal of discomfort
arises from this diseased state of mind, it
being far too prevalent. It should be blunt-
ed. There are actually those who fancy that
they form the especial theme of every pas-
serby; and if, in conversational circles, gen-
eral hints are given, they are sure to imag-
ine themselves particularized, and always
insist on being unjustly evil spoken of.
Whereas, they might, at least, give their
friends credit for feeling after their interest
And if, as is often the case, they must listen
to imaginary colloquies about themselves,
they might set the old proverb at defiance
and determine on hearing something good.
Another thing, these oversensitive people
are not the most cautious about opening
their mouths at the expense of the feelings
or credit of others. If compliments are of-
fered them in a kindly manner, they have
a way of defalcating them, and only half ac-
knowledging their real worth, And most of
us are not pleased with such discounts on
our pretty sentences, and are apt to look
well to our compliment in-those direc-
tions in future.


CHINESE MARRIAGE

	The Chinese mode of marriage is original.
The calendar is invariably consulted for a
lucky day to solemnize the nuptials; and in
the intermediate-time, letters pass between
the young couple, presents are exchanged
betwixt the two families and the bride-
groom purchases some jewels for his bride.
When the day appointed arrives, the bride
is locked in a close palanquin, the key of
which is delivered to a trusty domestic,
who must deliver it to none but the husband;
and the lady is carried to her new home, pre-
ceded by a band of musicians, and followed
by her relations. Everything that composes
her portion is also borne before and after her,
by persons of both sexes, while others walk
on each side with flambeaux and lighted
torches. The bridegroom, richly dressed,
waits the arrival of the procession at his
gate, on receiving the key, eagerly opens
the palanquin. If he be contented with his
new spouse he receives her with many ex-
pressions of joy; but if he be much disap-
pointed he suddenly shuts the chair, and
sends her back to her relations. If, how-
ever, the bridgroom once receive her into
his house, the marriage is irrevocable.


SLEEP.

	The necessity of sleep, it may be admit-
ted, is a disagreeable necessity. To turn
aside from all the pleasures of life, from the
sweet consciousness of existence, to give
over thoughts and love and memory and
hope—all plans and pursuits—and go down
to unforgetfulness or unconsciousness, is,
or seems to be, an unspeakable loss. It is a
death, temporary, but imperious and ever
recurring. Yet it is so universal, so gradual,
so natural, that we yield to it not only with-
out dread, but with delight. In the silent
splendor of star-lit nights, which seem to
put us on a footing with the whole universe,
in the blackness of nights that knew no star,
when we seem to be standing alone in the
solitude of eternity, life is too fascinating,
and we begrudge a moment lost; but even
then, without will, against will, the heavy
eyelids droop, and, all unhindered, the shy
soul slips away into some remote recess of
the brain to lie in ambush for the rising
dawn and the strong new world.


NEVER AGAIN.

	There is a touch of pathos about doing
even the simplest thing for the last time.
It is not alone kissing the lips of the dead
that gives you this strange pain—You feel
it when you look your last upon some scene
which you have loved—when you stand in
some quiet street where you will never
stand again unless you come back some day
to the old "haunts," and wander among
them an unwelcome ghost.
	The actor playing his part for the last
last time—the singer whose voice is cracked
hopelessly, and who after this once will
never stand before the sea of upturned
faces, disputing the plaudits with fresher
voices and fairer forms—the clergyman
who has preached his last sermon—these all
know the hidden bitterness of "never
again."
	How they come to us on birthdays as we
grow older! Never again young—always
nearer to the very last—the end which is
universal, the "last thing" which shall fol-
low all the other last things, and turn
them, let us hope, from pains to joys.
	We put away our boyish toys with an odd
heartache. We were too tall to walk any
longer on our stilts—too old to play marbles
on the pavement. Yet there was a pang
when we thought we had played with our
merry mates for the last time, and life's
serious, grown-up work was waiting for us.
	Now we do not want the lost toys back.
Life has other and larger playthings for us.
May it not be that these, too, shall seem in
the light of some far off as the boyish games
seem to our manhood, and we shall learn
that death is but the opening of a gate to
the new land of promise?


ORNAMENTAL TREES.—As a rule it is
much better to use native trees than those
of foreign extraction. Native trees are
generally more hardy, and put out their
foliage sooner, and retain the same later in
the season than the foreign. The maple
tree makes a beautiful shade, but is a slow
grower. The American linden is not, prob-
ably, as fine a tree as the English, but
preferable in some other respects. The
mountain ash is a favorite and is regarded
as among the most beautiful of the decid-
uous trees. Its form is graceful, and its
general appearance striking and elegant,
either in bloom in early summer, or when
loaded with its rich scarlet berries in the
autumn. It is very hardy, and will grow
thriftily in an exposure that would kill other
deciduous trees.


STOKES' FATHER testifies to insanity
affecting members of his family. Of course
Stokes was "affected" when he shot Fisk.
Of course he "lived in dread of his life"
while Fisk lived. But if he had been
born a Modoc, the lawyers would have had
less trouble in deciding his case.


MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
		Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
		No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agent for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.	jel5

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75. First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES: OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices Special dicounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand. 

			NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12X16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.
	


		

----
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours-10a m. to 3 p m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room  No. 50

CALDER & CARELESS

	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Masom & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stich Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods. 		je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and 
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First 
South street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionar in the Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern 
Prices Special disconnts made to all who purchase. 
A Splendid Stock on hand. 
			NEW CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of 
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an 
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, ad its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their 
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as 
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of 
the paper with the beginning of the next volume, 
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00	
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 		-	-	-	-	  20 00	
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham 
	Young, selling price, $2.50	-	-	  34 00	
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham 
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	- 		  48 00	
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by restered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿
VOL. 2. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1873. NO. 12


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE OPENING of a $200,000 theatre is the
way in which Louisville describes the
effects of the panic on her.
	THE CHEAPEST and most agreeable phy-
sic to be taken by people in general, is just
sufficient healthful bodily exercise.
	A NEW material for ladies’ dresses is a
fabric woven from bamboo fibres. That it
is “new” will be a sufficient recommend for
many.
	CONTINUED FAILURES in London, caused
by the financial disturbance in America,
show how much one portion of the world is
dependent on the other.
	THE DEATH of Mme. Felix, mother of
the great Rachel, is announced by Paris
newspapers. Well, she has gone the way
that all must go sooner or later.
	THREE WOMEN in Park County, Texas,
were recently hanged for horse stealing.
That looks like equality of rights, if male
horse thieves only get the same kind of
treatment there.
	IT IS not the superior possessions of a
man, that gives him power and influence,
but the use he makes of them.	Weak
minded men often accomplishe more good
than strong ones do.
	A BALLET girl of London recently died
from injuries received from her dress catch-
ing fire on the stage.	A recommendation
was sent to the manager to provide an addi-
tional supply of blankets at the sides of the
stage.
	A MAN pays twenty-five dollars, out here
in Utah, for beating his sister-in-law. The
woman thinks the outrage might be more
graciously endured for her part, if the
money for the fine, or even half of it, was
handed over to her.
	THR CHURCH yard, which contains the
grave of the “Dairyman’s daughter,” is on
the Isle of Wight, instead of the Isle of
Man, as appears in the last number of the
EXPONENT. The mistake was noticed too
late for correction in that issue.
	A WITTY lady got off a good joke re-
cently, on a quack doctor. He told her
that he had made arrangements for practis-
ing in the country; to which she replied, “I
am truly thankful for I have always had an
opinion that you needed practice.”
	THIS YEAR, the Indians of Red River,
Wisconsin, have raised 3,000 bushels of oats,
1,000 bushels of corn, 5,000 of potatoes,
2,000 of rutabages, and 3000 tons of hay.
Much better than has been done by,white
inhabitants in many cases, in different parts
of the country.
	THE EMPRESS of Austria has received a
set of costly jewelry, made in Rome, from
the King of Italy. He might have bestowed
such a present on others, more appreciative.
But kings don’t always seek how they may
put their means which is lent them to the
best use, more than do people of less conse-
quence. 
	JUDGE WITHEY in the Constitutional
Commission of Michigan, lately urged that
women should be eligible to any office for
which they were fitted, and the people were
[Column 2]
the proper judges as to fitness. A fact that
all men should be thoroughly convinced of
by this time; but it still appears some are
not.
	HER MAJESTY, Queen Victoria, has the
surplus bedding-out plants of her public
parks and gardens, distributed among the
working classes and poor inhabitants of
London. A better example than letting
them go to waste, or making the poor folks
pay for them, or take the chances of getting
them dishonestly.
	SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION is progressing
finely in some of the States. Mr. William
Wheelwright, of Newburyport, Massachus-
etts, lately deceased, bequeathed $200,000
to aid in the establishment of a scientific
school in that place; and Mr. Ario Pardee,
of Hazelton, Pa., has appropriated the large
amount of half a million dollars for a like
purpose. The world is increaing steadly
in knowledge and in wealth, and cities that
do not have scientific schools will soon be
behind the times.
	EMILY FAITHFUL of England, who a year
ago, spent some time in this country, ascer-
taining the real position of women of America,
by personal observation, and inquiry; warns
English women against the belief that the
equality of women has been fully recog-
nized here.	 And asserts the belief that
there is still opportunity for honorable rival-
ship in witnessing which country shall first
rate woman,s work at its true value. It is a
fine subject, and an important one, for a
race between England and America, if Miss
Faithful’s views on it are correct.
	THE FARMER'S Convention at Chicago
has adopted some strong resolutions, as the
result of its deliberations, of which the fol-
lowing is the prelude:	“The duty of a
government is to protect its people. Capital
directed by unscrupulous minds rcaps  the
profits of their labor. Men of great wealth
revel in luxury, while those who earned
the money are destitute of the comforts of
life.	 Our State Legislatures have made
laws depriving us of our land, for which we
have a title from the General Government,
for the benefiit of railroad companies be-
cause it seemed for the public good. Sub-
sidies have been granted them, and Congress
has with a lavish hand given them public
lands, the people’s inheritance, and the
result is extortion, oppression.” There is
much plain truth in the above; and as
resolutions were formed for appeals to be
made to Congress for redress, something of
a benificial nature for farmers may folIow.
	THE FOLLOWING simple sketch, will be
interesting to those who have marked the
judicious course, taken by her Majesty so far
during her entire reign. The latter portion of
the paragraph, portrays the real dignity and
constancy of a true woman and Queen, and
is another testimony of her Majesty’s super-
ior personal excellence:	“Queen Victoria’s
place at Osborne is her private property,
purchased by her and the Prince Consort
some thirty years ago. It contains about
5,000 acres of wood and farm land, and the
drives  through the parks and views are
charming. It is very rarely shown to the
public. Her Majesty and family while in
Osborne attend service every Sunday morn-
ing at Whippingham Church, an ugly little
[Column 3]
chapel built in the palace park by Queen
and Prince Albert. The royal pew, a large
inclosure, is plainly furnished with a row of
stiff chairs upholstered with blue velvet.
Her Majesty's seat differs from none of the
others, but is placed immediately under a
fine mural tablet to Prince Albert, erected
in memory of the best of husbands, “by his
broken-hearted widow, Queen Victoria.”
	THE “WOMAN'S Journal” of November
1st says:“The New Jersey abortion case,
exciting local public attention, recently,
displays the perils of modern society in a
warning light. A “clairvoyant,” Mrs. Metz-
ler kept a candy store near a public school
in Jersey City, and used her opportunities
of contact with young girls for the most im-
moral purposes. On her premises were
found bundles of letters in answer to an
advertisement of hers, most of them from
girls and of a most painful character. “The
victim in one instance was the daughter of
a printer’s widow, and was endeavoring to
support the rest of the family by working
for the Domestic sewing machine company
in New York at $8 per week. Her business
was to instruct buyers and agents how to
run the machine. The manager of the
department in which she worked, Alonzo E.
Kimball, is undoubtedly her seducer and
responsible for her death. Dr. J. E. Comins
of New York has been arrested as the medi-
cal felon. We hope the chief criminals will
experience all the severity of the law in its
freshest vigor.” If there are laws existing,
sufficiently severe, to deal justice to such
lawless, diabolical outrages of humanity, it
is time that they were put in force, more
rigorously than is generally the case in
such instances as that related above.
	WOMAN'S RIGHTS in Germany, are, ap-
parently working their way to complete
recognition in the most certain and effective
manner. We find the following on the
subject, in an exchange, which we deem
good enough to publish without comment:
“At Munich most of the clerks and book-
keepers in the banks are young and handsome
girls (although the latter is not an essential
qualification.) At the railway depots many
of the ticket-sellers are girls. At the “cafes”
all the cashiers are of the same sex. The
result has been that girls are found, as a
general rule more expert in mental arithme-
tic, in figures generally, than the men.
The Germans themselves assert that the
reason for the employment of girls  is that
the young men are too fast; that where they
don’t drink strong liquor (coffee, beer or
wine being the extent of their libations),
they devote the best part of the day to cafes
and beer saloons, playing billiards, chatting,
or studying the plates in the numerous
illustrated papers. By these habits they
totally unfit themselves for the staid pur-
suits of the office and counting-room, and
their places are being filled with girls, who
show a wonderful aptitude for these callings.
Throughout Germany, wherever females
can be employed, they are taken in prefer-
ence to young men. If the  experiment
should have the effort of widening the
sphere of Woman’s usefulness, and, as it
ought, shaming young men into better be-
havior, it will be one of the most valuable
lessons the decade has taught.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WATCH AND PRAY.

Temptation is so very strong
	And human will so weak,
That when we recognize a wrong
'Tis seldom we can pass along
With firm, unchanging cheek—
We e’en must pause to gaze awhile
	And canvass o’er the ill,
To mark its bright and beaming smile,
Until we cease to see its guile—
	Blind captives to its will.

Our good intentions profit not
	To keep us out of snares,
Unless we shun the fatal spot,
And keenly watch when foemon plot
	To take us unawares;
Nor can poor human will withstand
	The force of opposition,
Unless we invoke the mighty hand
Of Him who rules on sea and land
	To lend our strength addition.

Then watch and pray, Oh, watch and pray!
	Each day and every hour,
That we may keep our steadfast way
Toward perfection, day by day;
	Nor fail in moral power
To touch not, handle not a sin
	Though fangless it appears,
Till we the victor’s crown may win
And wear in triumph, ent’ring in
	Where dwell no doubts nor fears.
							LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			﻿R. S. REPORTS.
	Meeting of the 11th Ward Retrenchment
Association, held October 30th, 1873, was
opened by singing, “Now let us rejoice,”
etc.,: prayer by Mrs. Hunt; singing, “We
thank thee O! God for a prophet.” Minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted. A portion of the Third Lecture on
Faith was read. Select reading by Counselor
S. Freeze, Miss Aggio Sprowl and Miss Re-
becca Muning. President Mary A. Freeze
then said: The editorial in the EXPONENT
on “Something New Wanted” has impres-
sed me very much. How true it is that we
are constantly wanting something new, yet
do not live up to half the counsels we have.
Let us be more earnest in our endeavors to
thoroughly learn our old lessons, that we
may be prepared for new ones; for the Lord
has them ready for us when we are ready
to receive them. What a comfort it is the
Lord will ovrelook our short comings, in-
asmuch as we have it in our hearts to do
His will. I should have given up in
despair long ago, had it not been for this
knowledge. President Young has said that
“If we do as near right as we know how,
we are as perfect as the angels.” But we
do not do this at all times. We allow our-
selves to get irritated and unnappy over
some little thing, when at the same time
we know we should have better control over
ourselves. Still we cannot become perfect
all in one day, but it takes constant striving for
the victory. I felt proud of the compliment
Sister Snow gave the Retrenchment girls at
the last meeting; that if she wanted any-
thing done that required energy and
reliability, they would be the ones she would
call upon. You can see by this what confi-
dence you have inspired already and it
should be an incentive to urge you on to
greater diligence. Let us be watchful, for
the Apostle says: “He that thinketh he
standeth let him take heed lest he fall.” I
have received a letter from our Secretary.
She says she misses the good meetings very
much. She also says tell the girls to appreci-
ate the great blessings they enjoy. I pray
that we all may be faithful and become
bright and shining lights in the Kingdom of
God.
	Sister Hunt said, I feel thankfnl. my
young sisters, to meet with you again; and
glad to see the same faces that attended a
year ago. This organization is calculated to
[Column 2]
benefit and instruct all that attend these
meetings. When I was young I had no one
to teach me as you have. You should also
be thankful have such a President as you
have, to teach and instruct you in the things
of life. I think of all the meetings I ever
attended these are the best. I pray the
Lord to inspire your hearts anew to go
ahead in this good work.
	Sister Cushion said those who have spoken
have borne my testimony. I also embraced
the Gospel for the love of the truth, and the
desires of my heart are to do right, though
I come far short sometimes. The moment
I stepped inside this door I could feel that
the Spirit of the Lord was here; I would
exhort you to be true to Retrenchment and
sustain and assist your President, and you
will surely become bright lights in this
kingdom.
	Miss Aggie Sprowl said We have had
many good instructions taught, and should
be thankful for them. I never enjoy my-
self as well at any other meetings as here and
at 14th Ward. Kindness is what we should
cultivate—think twice before we speak once
—and remember a soft answer turneth away
wrath. I feel to appreciate the labors of our
president. I cannot express my feelings
to-night. May the Lord help us to do right.
	Other remarks followed and meeting ad-
journed. Benediction by Miss J. Myras.


[Column 1]
		SKELETONIZING LEAVES.

	Some of our readers will be pleased with
the following directions, published in the
"Gardeners' Magazine," for making those
beautiful ornaments known as skeleton
leaves.
	Select the finest and most perfect speci-
mens, and soak them in a large deep vessel
of rain water; place it in a sunny spot or
other warm situation, and shake it occasion-
ally, but not sufficient to stir up the contents,
as that might injure the fibers of the leaves.
As the water evaporates, fill up with fresh
water again, without changing that which
remains. Be careful of using any chemi-
cal in order to assist decompositions as you
will thereby run great risk of injuring the
delicate skeleton, which of course you are
anxious to keep quite perfect. But if you
are impatient of waiting, a few drops of
muriatic acid would hasten the destruction
of the soft parts. The most usual plan,
however, is to soak the leaves in rain water
only, until the skin which envelops the
fiber is quite soft and loose, so that it can
be easily removed. The best plan for ac-
complishing this is to lay each one sepa-
rately in a plate full of water, and carefully
remove the soft parts with a needle, or
gently rubbing with the finger and thumb.
Of course, great care must be taken not to
break the skeleton; but with little practice
you will be able to do so easily. As soon as
the water thickens, so that you cannot well
see what you are about, change it, or you
will spoil your work. In some cases a piece
of soft flannel may be used with advantage;
but the final clearing of pulp from the fibers
must be performed by a camel's hair brush.
The time required for steeping them de-
pends upon a variety of circumstances, such
as the kind of a leaf, its age, the time of
year, the temperature of the weather, etc.
The leaves of the ivy and holly require soak-
ing for three or four months, while those of
the pear, apple, and poplar will be ready in
as many weeks; so that it will be necessary
for you to use your own judgement and dis-
cover the time each kind of leaf requires for
yourself by examining them occasonally.
Of course it will require some patience and
perseverance before "first-rate" skeletons
[Column 2]
can be obtained; but the task is not so diffi-
cult but that any one gifted with ordinary
patience and medium talent may be able
to produce very creditable specimens. The
vessel containing the water may be pretty
well filled with specimens, as they will not
injure each other unless shaken too rudely,
but perhaps rather assist in the process of
decomposition. It is not adviasable to use
any but full-grown leaves, as the delicate
fibers of the young ones are likely to decom-
pose with the pulp. The best time for
selecting them is therefore about July or
August, when they are quite mature, but
still vigorous. Great care must be taken
to choose only the most perfect, for it is
obvious that if any portion of the fibres are
injured before you macerated them, it will
be impossible to obtain a perfect specimen.
Hold your leaf then up to the light, and if
you can see a crack, or any small spots of
decay, throw it away, or your time and
trouble will be wasted. for when once the
skeleton is broken or otherwise injured, all
attempts to repair it will prove unavailing.
Those leaves which have the toughest fibers
are, of course, the best adapted for the pur-
pose, and consequently the soft leaves of
rapid growing plants are useless. Those
best adapted for the purpose, and which can
be obtained by everybody, are the leaves of
ivy, holly, magnolia, rose, pear, sycamore,
willow, oak, hawthorn, poplar, orange, and
lemon, the petals of hydrangea, and fruit
of the apple, thorn, and winter cherry.
Each kind of leaf has a peculiarity of struc-
ture and a beauty entirely its own, so that
the difference in the fiberous network, and
the variety and elegance of outline observa-
ble in the different subjects give to the
pursuit a great charm. The appearance of
the skeleton is greatly improved by bleach-
ing, which is accomplished by plunging in
spring water in which there has been dis-
olved some chloride of lime. Two table-
spoonfuls of liquid chloride to a pint of
water will suffice. In some cases the
skeletons will become white in a few min-
utes, but leaves of a stronger fiber will take
a much longer time. When well bleached,
dry them on blotting paper, and then
arrange them tastefully in a vase, and cover
the whole with a glass shade, when you will
possess a very elegant ornament for your
drawing-room or your boudoir. A shorter
method has been devised for preparing
skeleton leaves which occupies but a few
minutes, but is applicable only to those of
the toughest fiber as the process is somewhat
rough. It consists in drying the leaves be-
tween sheets of blotting paper, in a botanical
press, or under a weight; when quite dry,
place the leaf to be operated upon on a soft
pad and beat it with a brush until the pulp
is entirely separated from the fiber. Some
very good skeletons have been obtained in
this manner. A cushion and a clothes brush
will be sufficient for the first experiment
when, if the plan is approved, you can easily
devise means to carry it out properly.


JAY COOK, one of the prominent sufferers
from the financial crash, has a real heroine
for a wife, who promptly relinquishes her
dowery right to aid in meeting the pecuni-
ary liabilities of her husband. Though ac-
customed to luxury she will doubtless, find
more true pleasure in making this sacrifice,
than in the enjoyment of undisturbed
wealth.


﻿THE United States Senatorial Committee
on Elections and Privileges have drafted a
new amendment to the Constitution, provid-
ing a method of electing a President and
Vice-President directly by the people.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	WE find the following in an exchange:
A standing antidote for poison by oak, ivy, 
etc., is to take a handful of quick lime, dis-
solve in water, let it stand half an hour, 
then paint the poisoned part with it.  Three
or four applications will never fail to cure.
	THE following suggestions of devices are
from a correspondent of the "Rural New
Yorker:"
	A WALL PROTECTOR to put behind a 
wash-stand, is made of pink cambrie, co-
vered with dotted muslin, gathered, and
sewed on; a hem an inch wide on the top
gives it a finish.
	FOR A HAIR-RECEIVER, I take a square
piece of perforated cardboard and work a 
pretty pattern with worsted; line it with
cambric; bind it on three sides with ribbon;
roll it so as it forms a horn of plenty; put a
bow at the top and bottom and it is com-
plete.
	I HAVE TOILET MATS made of white
Marseilles, braided with fine red braid and 
the edge embroidered with red cotton.
					H. T. G.
"Niagara Falls, N.Y."
	ARROWPOINT PUDDING.—Mix four table-
spoonfuls to a smooth batter with a half pint
of milk; put a pint of milk on the fire with a
lump of sugar, and when it boils, add the
batter, and keep stirring it till sufficiently
thick to leave the saucepan.  Pour it into a 
mould previously soaked in cold water, and 
when could it will turn out easily.
	BURNS, SCALDS, AND THEIR TREATMENT.
—Mix common kitched whiting with sweet
oil, or, if sweet oil is not at hand, with
water.  Plaster the whole of the burn and 
some inches all around with the above, after
mixing it to the consistency of common
paste, and lay it on an eighth, or rather more,
of an inch in thickness.  It acts like a 
charm: the most agonizing pain is in a few
minutes stilled.  Take care to keep the
mixture moist by the application from time 
to time of fresh oil or fresh water, and at
night wrap the whole part affected in gut-
ta-percha or flannel, to keep the moisture 
from evaporating.  The patient will in all 
probability, unless the flesh be much injured
and the burn be a very bad one, sleep
soundly.
	MATRIMONY TART.—Pare and core about
a half dozen nice-sized apples; put them
into a saucepan with a little water to keep
them from burning; boil them until you 
can pulp them (but do not forget to fre-
quenctly stir them), then add a quarter of a
pound of currants, two ounces of candied peel,
and enough sugar to sweeten it nicely; if
liked, also a little grated nutmeg.  Pour
this mixture into a large tart-tin or dish
that has previously been lined with a thin 
paste.  Then roll out another piece the same
size and thickness, which place over the 
top; press the edges together all round,
make a hole into the centre (the same as for 
mince-pies), and bake.  When apples are
plentiful this makes a pleasing chagne from
the ordinary routine of pies and puddings.
	COCOA-NUT CAKES.—Rasp a fresh cocoa-
nut on a grater, avoiding letting any of the 
brown rind in by holding it towards you;
spread it on a dish an dlet it dry gradually
for two days; add to it double its weight of
sifted sugar and the well-beated whites of
eight eggs, a teacupful of flour for every
pound; put the mixture into small dorp-tins
and bake in a very gentle oven for about 
twenty minutes.
	TO DYE DRIED FLOWERS.—Some of the
most beautiful ornaments for the interior of
[Column 2]
our dwellings are those of natural produc-
tion, such as shells, crystals, corals, minerals,
etc.  There ever has been a desire to retain
flowers during the whole winter; but what 
Nautre Witholds, Art in the many instances
partially supplies.  The gathering of grasses,
mosses, ferns, and certain flowers called
gnaphalium, or everlasting flowers, during
autumn, is a delightful occupation.  Then
comes the work of setting them up into 
various ornamental forms.  Most of the
grasses and several mosses dry of a somber
hue, though they retain their exquisite
form. to whiten, or bleach them, make a 
cone of paper, in which the flowers are to 
be placed, over a small piece of burning sul-
phur.  To dye them—red.  Carmine dis-
olved in a solution of cabonate of potash, or
carmine dissolved in ammonia: say, car-
mine, a quarter of an ounce; liqquid ammo-
nia, half an ounce; water, a quarter of a pint.
Blue.—Indigo, dissolved in sulphuric acid, 
and neutralized with whiting.  Yellow.
—A solution of turmeric spirits of wine.
Violet.—Archil and the above blue.  Lilac.
—Archil, in boiling water.  Green.—Dye
first light blue by diluting the above by one
half with water, and then use the yellow.
All these grasses, etc., are dyed by dipping
them into solutions of the above mixtures.
The colors may be brightened if the plants
be first dipped in water containing cream of
tartar, and dried.


﻿MAN AND WOMAN IN LOVE.

	"Every one must have noticed the great
difference, as a general thing, between the
conduct of the betrothed man and the young
betrothed woman," says a cute observer of
engagements among young people. "He,
the braver and stronger of the two, is
utterly confused and bashful, and seeks to
make a secret of the fact. She, on the con-
trary, tries to parade it, is proud of it,
assumes a certain air of proprietorship over
him, and offers to her friends little delicate
confidences as to how nice it is to be en-
gaged, and how dreadfully jealous he his
if she looks at anybody else. The cause of
this is just one thing—the man is in love
the woman is not. I have studied human
nature, have looked into the depth of hearts;
I have made man and woman the study of
my life, and I aver that the girl in love is
rarer than a black rose. She simply has for
her lover the same feeling that the young
mother has for her babe. She has an
anxious desire to see him for life, to make
sure that he is comfortable, that he is in
love with her, and rejoices in the knowledge.
The idea of losing his love is madness to
her, but of herself she does not understand
it. A woman who is not selfish and greedy
and mean, who can have her fine clothes and
a grand establishment, overflows with the
mother's feeling all her life. She expands 
it on her dolls in childhood, on her poodle
or her kitten, or her canary; and afterward,
when the time arrives, on her lover. Many
a man would lose a great deal of his conceit
and vanity if he knew just how the girl
whom he supposed to be in love with him
really felt. She, also, would be surprised to
hear that she was not in love ar all, but only
delighted to have some one in love with
her."


----
MAN AND WOMAN IN LOVE.
	"Every one must have noticed the great
difference, as a general thing, between the
conduct of the betrothed man and the young
betrothed woman," says a cute observer of
engagements among young people. "He,
the braver and stronger of the two, is
utterly confused and bashful, and seeks to
make a secret of the fact. She, on the con-
trary, tries to parade it, is proud of it,
assumes a certain air of proprietorship over
him, and offers to her friends little delicate
confidences as to how nice it is to be en-
gaged, and how dreadfully jealous he his
if she looks at anybody else. The cause of
this is just one thing--the man is in love
the woman is not. I have studied human
nature, have looked into the depth of hearts;
I have made man and woman the study of
my life, and I aver that the girl in love is
rarer than a black rose. She simply has for
her lover the same feeling that the young
mother has for her babe. She has an
anxious desire to see him for life, to make
sure that he is comfotable, that he is in
love with her, and rejoices in the knowledge.
The idea of losing his love is madness to
her, but of herself she does not understand
it. A woman who is not selfish and greedy
and mean, who can have her fine clothes and
a grand establishment, overflows with the
mother's feeling all her life. She expends
it on her dolls in childhood, on her poodle
or her kitten, or her canary; and afterward,
when the time arrives, on her lover. Many
a man would lose a great deal of his conceit
and vanity if he knew just how the girl
whome he supposed to be in love with him
really felt. She, also, would be surprised to
hear that she was not in love at all, but only
delighted to have some one in love with
her."


----
     ﻿MAN AND WOMAN IN LOVE.

	“Every one must have noticed the great
difference, as a general thing, between the
conduct of the betrothed man and the young
betrothed woman,” says a cute observer of
engagements among young people. “He,
the braver and stronger of the two, is
utterly confused and bashful, and seeks to
make a secret of the fact. She, on the con-
trary, tries to parade it, is proud of it,
assumes a certain air of proprietorship over
him, and offers to her friends little delicate
confidences as to how nice it is to be en-
gaged, and how dreadfully jealous he his
if she looks at anybody else. The cause of
this is just one thing—the man is in love
the woman is not. I have studied human
nature, have looked into the depth of hearts;
I have made man and woman the study of
my life, and I aver that the girl in love is
rarer than a black rose. She simply has for
her lover the same feeling that the young
mother has for her babe. She has an
anxious desire to see him for life, to make
sure that he is comfortable, that he is in
love with her, and rejoices in the knowledge.
The idea of losing his love is madness to
her, but of herself she does not understand
it. A woman who is not selfish and greedy
and mean, who can have her fine clothes and
a grand establishment, overflows with the
mother’s feeling all her life. She expends
it on her dolls in childhood, on her poodle
or her kitten, or her canary; and afterward,
when the time arrives, on her lover. Many
a man would lose a great deal of his conceit
and vanity if he knew just how the girl
whom he supposed to be in love with him
really felt. She, also, would be surprised to
hear that she was not in love at all, but only
delighted to have some one in love with
her.”


THE PARK Hill Female Seminary, at
Tahlequah, the capital of the Cherokee
Nation, which has for years been closed,
is now re-opened with fair promises of suc-
cess, and with Miss Ella M. Noyes as
superintendent. A very agreeable “Noyes”
will that talented young lady make in her
new occupation, without doubt.


﻿FRIDAY.

	From time immemorial Friday has been
frowned upon as a day of ill-omen; and,
though this prejudice is less prevalent now
than it has been in days of yore, when
superstition had general sway, yet there
are many, even in this matter-of-fact age of
ours, who would hesitate, on a day so in-
auspicious, to begin an undertaking of
momentous import. And now many brave
mariners, whose hearts unquailed could
meet the wildest fury of their ocean home,
would blanch to even bend their sails on
Friday! But, to show with how much
reason this feeling is indulged, let us ex-
amine the following important facts in
connection with our settlement and great-
ness as a nation, and we will see how little
cause we Americans have to dread this
fatal day:
	On Friday, August 3d, 1492, Christopher
Columbus sailed on his great voyage of dis-
covery.
	On Friday, October 12th, 1492 he first
discovered land.
	On Friday, January 4th, 1493, he sailed
on his return to Spain, which, if he had not
reached in safety, the happy result which
led to the settlement of this vast conti-
nent would never have been known.
	On Friday, March 15th, 1493, he arrived
safely at Palos.
	On Friday, November 22d, 1493, he ar-
rived at Hispaniola on his second voyage to
America.
	On Friday, June 13th, 1494, he, though
unknown to himself, discovered the conti-
nent of America.
	On Friday, March 5th, 1496, Henry VIII.
of England, gave to John Cabot his com-
mission, which led to the discovery of North
America. This is the first American state
paper of England.
	On Friday, September 7th, 1584, Melen-
dez founded St. Augustine—the oldest set-
tlement in the United States by more than
forty years.
	On Friday, November 10th, 1620, the
Mayflower, with the Pilgrims, made the
harbor of Provincetown; and on the same
day was signed that august compact, the
forerunner of our glorious constitution.
	On Friday, December 22d, 1620, the
Pilgrims made their final landing on Ply-
mouth rock.
	On Friday, February 22d, 1732, George
Washington, the father of American free-
dom, was born.
	On Friday, June 16th, 1775, Bunker Hill
was seized and fortified.
	On Friday, June 7th, 1776, in Congress,
a motion was made by John Adams, and
seconded by Richard Henry Lee, that the
United Colonies were, and of right ought to
be, free and independent.
	On Friday, October 7th, 1777, the surren-
der of Saratoga was made, which had such
powerful influence in inducing France to
declare for our cause.
	On Friday, September 22d, 1780, the trea-
son of Arnold was laid bare, which saved.
	On Friday, October 19th, 1781, occurred
the surrender of Yorktown—the crowing
glory of the American arms.
	Thus, by numerous examples, we see
that, however it may be with other nations,
Americans need never dread to begin any
understaking on Friday, however important
or momentous it may be.


ELECTRICTIY is now used in Scotland for
blasting purposes, and five thousand tons of
granite were recently displaced at Kemnay
by one shock from a battery.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

[Column 1]
		        THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT

  		     L.GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
								 Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 15, 1873.

		AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.

					 AGENTS.
					Salt Lake City.
[Column 1]
Mrs. Zina D. Young, 		
" Margt. P. Young,			
" Lily Staines, 			
" Sarah Smith,				
" Mary J.  Thomson,			
" Margaret Steel,			

[Column 2]
Mrs. Elvira Barney,
" Amanda Kimball
" Elizabeth Davis,
" Hampton, 16th
	Ward
" Sarah E. Smith
			Miss Sarah E. Russell.
			CORRESPONDENTS.
[Column 1]
Mrs. Laura Miner, 			
" A.B. Smith.			

[Column 2]
Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Miss Mary E. Cook
		          	AGENTS
		     	 Weber County,
"	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden
			Oncida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	" Mary Rich, Paris.
			Rich County.
	" Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
			Cache County.
	" M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	" Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
			Box Elder County.
	" Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			Davis County.
	" Ann Clark, Farmington,
	" Aurelia Rogers,	"
	" Margaret Randall, Centerville,
	" Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	" Susan Grant, 	"
	" Sylvia Clark,	"
[Column 2]
			Salt Lake County.
	  "	––––Higgins, West Jordan,
	  "	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
			tonwood.
				Utah County.
	  "	––––Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  "	––––Harrison,			    "
	  "	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
				Juab County.
	  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	  "	Ann Pitchforth,		
	  "	Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
			      Sanpete County.
	  "	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
			City,
	  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
				Millard County.
	  "	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	  "	Belinda M. Pratt,	"
Miss Mary Callister,	"
				Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
	  "	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
				  Iron County.
	  "	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith, 	"
				   Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
	  "	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
			Cedar City.
			     Washington County.
	  "	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
			St. George,
	  "	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


SPLINTERS.

	Seven lives were destroyed by a late
prairie fire near Omaha......Memphis has
received $15,000 donation from Cincinnati.
......The cashier in the Treasury Department
of Albany, has robbed the State of $300,000,
to speculate on Wall street......The ladies of
Portland, Me., have been signing petitions
to the Governor in favor of Woman Suffrage.
......A melon growing on a cucumber vine
is one of the latest curiosities in the vege-
table kingdom......A sassafras tree 120 feet
high, 50 feet to the lower branches, is a
novelty in Painsville, Ohio......Less hours
of work on the farm, less produce and
higher prices for it, is the talk of some
Western farmers.........Eighteen thousand
Americans went abroad this year......Jet
ornaments have again come in favor with
the fashionable.........Paris has 150,000 pau-
pers......The theatre of Strasburg, destroyed
by the bombardment in 1870, has been re-
built and reopened......The old Mexican
General, Don Antonio Lopez De Santa
Anna, is passing a miserable life in com-
plete poverty, having sunk from opulence.
......There is a literary society in the
Maryland Inebriate Asylum, named after
Oliver Wendell Holmes......Miss Sarah E.
Fuller of New York has received an award
of merit from the Vienna Exposition for
excellence in wood engraving......Mrs.
Eliza H. Hill has been held in $5,000 bonds
at Worcester, Massachusetts, for shooting
her husband......Memphis is better and her
nurses from New Orleans have gone home.
......The "State Journal" office, of Harris-
burg, Pennsylvania, was lately burned, loss
$100,000......White sealskin is a new fur
which promises to be much worn.........The
prize fighters, Heenan and Sayers, have
both died of consumption.........The well
known English author, Sir Henry Holland
is dead......Parties engaged in a politico-
religious conspiracy have been ordered
arrested by the Russian Government......
A panic lately occurred on the Bourse in
Vienna, and the Government is trying to
settle the financial dicffiulty......The Carlists
are reported to have fired on a Spanish
man-of-war and killed one of the crew......
News from France indicate closer approah
to monarchy.........A Chicago negro wife
murderer, named Andrew J. Peetet, has
been sentenced to be hanged.........Stokes
has been convicted of manslaughter and
sentenced to four years imprisonment and
hard labor.


USELESS WORK.

			BY G. R. B.

	I have come to the conclusion that it is a
peculiarity of the feminine mind never to
be really happy unless burdened with tasks
so numerous as to fill every hour of the day.
Else why is there so much superfluous work
continually being done. Take, for instance,
patchwork quilts. Many people innocently
suppose that because white counterpanes are
cheaper and prettier, patchwork has fallen
into disuse, and is indeed become one of the
lost arts, but I can assure them that in the
country it still flourishes. Not only are bits
of material, left from garments made, cut
into minute fragments and sewed together
again in geometrical patterns and wonderous
devices, but yards of new material are used
up in the same way. This work, together
with a great amount of labor and time con-
sumed in the quilting, produces an article
not one-half as pretty as white counterpanes
which cost but little money, and no time or
labor before they are ready for use.


Then the sewing! The flounces overlay
my skirts, the ruffles overlay my flounces,
the trimming of the edges of all, and the
tucks filling every inch of space, so that a
well-made and perfectly plain garment would
be refreshing, and resting to our tired eyes.
See the amount of unnecessary work done
by women who strive to attain and main-
tain a reputation for superlative housekeep-
ing. Neatness, like all other virtues, be-
comes a vice when carried to excess. The
wearing away of floors; tables, chairs, wood-
work, and all kitchen utensils, by the
continual scrubbing of that which was al-
ready perfectly clean—who can account for
this, except by the love of work for its own
sake rather than for its results?
	Then the worse than useless cooking.
When bread and butter are well made,
meats, vegetables and fruits skillfully pre-
pared for the table, it must be a depraved
appetite that would long for pies, cakes and
preserves.
	To repeat the idea with which I com-
menced: I believe if there should come to
our busy MARTHAS an afternoon in which
there would be nothing at all to be done—
the house in perfect order from garret to
cellar—no sewing to do, not even a letter to
write—they would be restlessly unquiet
and finally miserable before the happy hour
when they could again take up the burden
by getting supper.


HINTS TO YOUNG MARRIED PEOPLE.

	The following paragraph is worthy the careful
perusal of any woman who is seeking, or ever
intends, to honestly fulfil the calling of a wife:
	"The true girl has to be sought for. She
does not parade herself to show her goods. She
is not fashionable. Generally she is not rich.
But. oh! what a heart she has when you find
her! So large and pure and womanly. When
you see her you wonder if those showy things
outside were women. If you gain her love,
your two thousands are millions. She'll not
ask you for a carriage or first-class house.
She'll wear simple dresses, and turn them
when necessary with no vulgar magnificent
frown upon her economy. She'll keep eveyr-
thing neat and nice in your sky parlor, and
give such a welcome when you come home
that you'll think your parlor brighter than
ever.  She will entertain true friends on a dol-
lar, and astonish you with the new thought of
how little happiness depends on money. She will
make you love home, and teach you how to
pity, while you scorn a poor fashionable society,
which thinks itself rich and vainly tries to
think itself happy."
	Young wife, reflect, if the husband whom
you love so much has found that true girl in
you; and if you can satisfactorily answer your-
self that indeed he has, be thankful for the
noble disposition of which you are possessed,
and endeavor to throw beams of light in the
way of others who may be less fortunate.
	Then, there is another side to the picture.
There is the true man to find as well as the
true girl. And quite as rarely does he make an
appearance amid the ranks of fashionable so-
ciety. But when you do find him, young lady,
the vexatious and trials of married life, against
which so many warnings are given, are so
limited in your case that you will never need
to join your stories of sad experience and human
wrongs with the many that are daily told.
Nothing that would prove a comfort in the
slightest degree to his wife, is too small for the
true man to think of and attend to for her sake.
And no necessary task is too great for him to
undertake, for her convenience and happiness.
He kindly appreciates and encourages all the
efforts of the true girl to make their home a


paradise; and warmly reciprocating, tries with
her to keep everything neat and orderly, that
both may have time for enjoyment and mental
improvement. He will not absurdly imag-
ine that with no pains-taking on his part, it is
an easy thing for his wife to keep articles of
use in their proper places; that it is her duty
alone and not his in the least, to think of and
look after all these things. But when a thought
occurs to his mind, of some little improvement
that might be made in the domestic arrange-
ments, he pleasantly suggests the same to her,
never thinking to find fault or seek to govern
where his rights do not extend. Thus the true
man and the true girl are mutually and con-
tinually blest with the love and confidence and
assistance of each other, where fortune has
kindly brought them together.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	We cheerfully give place to the following
summary and resolutions which appear in the
"Woman's Journal," of Oct. 25th, with a re-
quest to each newspaper in the United States
o republish them.

			SUMMARY.

	The American Woman Suffrage Association
held a very successful Anniversary and An-
nual meeting in New York and Brooklyn, Oct.
13th and 14th. The Convention was large. The
proceedings were spirited and harmonious.
Great enthusiasm prevailed. Col. T. Went-
worth Higginson presided and made the open-
ing address. Letters endorsing the movement,
were read from Hon. George Wm. Curtis, Wm.
Lloyd Garrison, Lydia Maria Child, Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps, Louisa M. Alcot and others.
Eighty-six delegates were present, representing
organized societies in fourteen States and Ter-
ritories. The Annual Report shows that Woman
Suffrage is established and works well in Wyo-
ming and Utah, that it was under discussion
last winter, in 21 State Legislatures, and received
a majority vote in those of Maine, Iowa and
Michigan. Written reports were read from 17
States. Julia Ward Howe was elected Presi-
dent for the ensuing year; Lucy Stone, Chair-
man Executive Committee. Among the Vice
Presidents at Large are Vice President Henry
Wilson. Hon. George Wm. Curtis, Senator Sar-
geant, Wm. Lloyd Garrison and Col. Higgin-
son. The Resolutions adopted are as follows.
	
			RESOLUTIONS.

	RESOLVED, That the primary aim of the
American Woman Suffrage Association is to
secure the ballot for woman; while it includes,
it its general aim, the establishment of her
equality of rights in all directions.
	RESOLVED, That one-half of the adult popu-
lation of the United States who are legally
entitled to hold property, who are assessed for
taxes and punishable for crime and whoes in-
terest in the Commonwealth is in no respect
less than that of the other half, should not be
deprived  of an equal voice in the government.
	RESOLVED, That a government of the people
must be a government composed equally of men
and women, inasmuch as the equal co-opera-
tion of the sexes is essentially alike to a happy
home, a refined society, a Christian church and
a Republican State.
	RESOLVED, That our present political system
is not fairly representative, even of men, being
largely controlled in the primary meetings by
rings of trading politicians intent on private
gain; that political reform must enlist a more
general interest on the part of the people in the
management of public business; and that this
would be greatly promoted by combining the
social co-operation of women in the primary
meetings, at the polls, and in the halls of legis-
lation.
	RESOLVED, That we advise the friends of
Woman Suffrage in every locality to promote
the Movement morally and politically, by or-
ganizing local societies, for circulating tracts
and newspapers, for holding public meetings,
and especially for helping to elect the friends
of Suffrage and to defeat its enemies.
	RESOVLED, That the Woman Suffrage Move-
ment, like every other reform of the Age, la-
ments the loss and honors the memory of its
most powerful advocate, John Stuart Mill.


[Column 1]
		A VISIT TO OGDEN.

	On the 30th of October, accompanied by Mrs.
B. W. Smith and Mrs. P. Woodruff, in response
to an invitation from President Mrs. J. S. Rich-
ards, I met with a large assemblage of the
Relief Society, in the Tabernacle in Ogden
City. While viewing the numerous congrega-
tion, which was principally composed of ladies,
with faces beaming with expressions of happi-
ness, and intelligence, the thought forced itself
upon my mind, that, if those meddlesome per-
sons who are making piteous moans over the
"poor, oppressed women of Utah," could take
one unprejudiced look at the imposing, interest-
ing and cheery sight presented in this Taberna-
cle, they would henceforth and forever, withhold
the pusillanimous sympathies they so lavishly
waste in our behalf.
	The Prof. Monch, yielding to the interests of
the Society, dismissed his school at an unusual
hour, to give his many young lady students an
opportunity of attending the meeting, is a cir-
cumstance worthy of note.
	It was a most interesting sight, and every
eye was riveted to the beautiful procession, as
in double file, these young ladies marched
down one of the long aisles of the Tabernacle,
and with modest dignity took seats reserved
for them nearly in front of the stand, which was
occupied by President F. D. Richards and
other prominent gentlemen including Prof.
Monch, (after conducting his corps of students
to the entrance) President Mrs. Richards and
her efficient Board, Mrs. P. Kimball, Mrs. Pix-
ton and other prominent ladies, and, of course,
your honored correspondent.
	I regret my inability to give the number of
the young ladies—my admiration was too ab
sorbing for numericals. They were all dressed
neatly and tastefully, without exhibiting any
of those exuberances of style, at war with gen-
teel figure and graceful bearing; while their
countenances glowed with health, beauty and
happiness, and their strictly attentive manner
during the meeting, manifested a power of
noble intellect and moral feeling, indicating
that they realized that they too, had an interest
in the progress of the great work of womanly
development.
	After the close of the meeting, sisters Smith
and Woodruff returned home—I stayed the next
day, which I spent with much pleasure and profit
to myself, and trust, with some, to others. In
connection with other calls, sister Richards and
I visited Professor Monch's school, in a com-
modious room neatly fitted up with furniture
imported from the East. The teacher and
students, all seemed happy, and our interview
was exceedingly interesting. After other exer-
cises, we were entertained with music on the
piano, and songs by the pupils. We could see
at a glance that, "order, heaven's first law,"
reigned in that Institution. Not with tyrannical
sway, where "power is might, and force de-
cides," but a government wielded by kindness,
and clothed with the mantle of love.
	It will be gratifying to those interested in
human progress, to hear that Prof. Monch is
establishing a class of young ladies, in the all
important, and much neglected study of Physi-
ology.
	I was much pleased to learn that two, at least,
of this class, design to obtain a thorough classi-
cal education, to qualify themselves for the
medical profession. I say, success to them, as
well as to all those in Salt Lake City and else-
where, who are studying for the same object.
	In the afternoon we visited the branch of the
Relief Society in Riverdale, presided over by
Mrs. Bingham, and had a pleasant time.
	For the encouragement of my sisters who are

[Column 2]
nobly applying their efforts to benefit humanity
in every laudable manner, let me assure them
that they have co-workers, who are alive to the
interests of the great cause of Zion, both in
Ogden and vicinity.
					ELIZA R. SNOW.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	A LARGE iron manufacturing company has
been lately organized with a capital of $250,000,
the works of which will be located in Ogden.
	WE WOULD again call attention to the list of
agents which appears in our columns, and again
solicit additions to it, from settlements not re-
presented therein.
	BRO. ISAAC Laney died on the 31st ult., the
thirty-fifth anniversary ot the massacre at
Haun's Mill, Missouri, where he was brutally
wounded by the mob.
	AN APPEAL to the Territorial Teacher's As-
sociation, which has appeared in the daily
papers, has unintentionally been crowded out
of our present issue, but will be given space in
our next.
	SEVERAL SERIOUS accidents have lately oc-
curred in and about some of the mines in this
Territory; among which we note with much
regret, the loss of an eye, and other severe in-
juries to Mr. Ben Hampton, while he was
blasting in the Chicago mine in Davis kanyon.
	ANOTHER PETITION in the form of a memo-
rial has been produced by the "Mormon Eat-
ers," praying Congress to pass laws for the
correcting of evils among the "Mormons." An-
other death and funeral will likely follow, and
then another resurrection in some other form.
	UTAH HAS never known a more glorious In-
dian Summer, than that which has hung about
her hills and valleys for the last three weeks, and
if ever her majestic beauty and graceful loveli-
ness, were calculated to inspire the artist or the
poet with "thoughts sublime," it has been since
the middle of last month until the present
time. Travelers who visit this Territory dur-
ing this delightful season of the year, may con-
sider themselves exceedingly fortunate in their
choice of time for "doing" our "Mountain
Home."


LOVE OF THE BEAUTIFUL.

	Place a young girl under the care of a
kind-hearted, graceful woman, and she un-
consciously to herself, grows into a graceful
lady. Place a boy in the establishment of a
thorough-going, straightforward business
man, and the boy becomes a self-reliant,
practical business man. Children are sus-
ceptible creatures, and circumstances and
scenes and actions always impress. As you
influence them, not by arbitrary rules, nor
by stern example alone, but in a thousand
other ways that speak through beautiful
forms, pretty pictures, etc., so they will
grow. Teach your children then to love the
beautiful. If you are able give them a
corner in the garden for flowers; allow them
to have their favorite trees; teach them to
wander in the prettiest woodlets; show
them where they can best view the sunset;
rouse them in the morning, not with the
stern "Time to work," but with the en-
thusiastic, "See the beautiful sunrise!" Buy
for them pretty pictures, and encourage
them to decorate their room in his of her
childish way. Give them an inch, and they
will go a mile. Allow them the privilege,
and they will make your home pleasant and
beautiful.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿	YOU KISSED ME.

	The following poem, remarkably beautiful 
and full of passion, was addressed by a young
woman to a young man to whom she was en-
gaged to be married. The wedding was ap-
pointed, at 8 o'clock P. M. and the expectant
bridegroom suddenly died at 6 P. M. only two
hourse before the time fixed for his marriage.
Miss — was never married; but refused
repeated subsequent offers.

You kissed me! My head drooped low on your breast,
With a feeling of shelter, and infinite rest-
While the holy emotion my tongue dared not speak,
Flushed up like a flame from my heart to my cheek.
Your arms were around me.-Oh, your arms were so
	bold,
Heart beat against heart in their passionate hold!
Your glances seemed drawing my soul through my
	eyes,
As the sun draws the mist from the earth to the skies;
And your lips clung to mine, till I prayed, in my
	bliss;
They should never depart from that passionate kiss.

You kissed me! My heart, and my breath, and my
	will.
In delirious joy for a moment stood still!
Life had for me then no temptation---no charms----
No vista of pleasure outside of your arms!
And were I this instant and angel, possessed
Of the glory and peace that belong to the blest,
I would cast my white robes unrepiningly down,
And dash from my forehead its heavenly crown,
To nestle once more in that haven of rest,
With your lips upon mine, and my head on your breast. 

You kissed me! My sould, in a transport divine.
Reeled and swoomed like one drunken and maddened
	with wine!
And I thought 'twere delicious to die thus---if death
Would come while my mouth was yet moist with
	your breath;
'Twere delicious to die if my heart could grow cold
While your arms wrapt me round in that passionate
	hold!
And these are the questions I ask day and night---
Must my life taste but once such ecstatic delight--
Would you like, if your breast was my shelter as then,
And if you were here---would you kiss me again? 
									MATTIE.
	In the "Ladies' Floral Cabinet."


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
	TAKE CARE OF THE BOYS.
Exponent L. B. W.
	Throughout the length and breadth of the
land the cry is, Mother’s, instruct your
daughters, make them fit for wives and
mothers.” But I would say also, while you
bestow so much time and thought upon
your girls, be sure you do not neglect or
forget your boys. They too, require your
gentle, loving care; do not give them up
entirely to their father, when they done
their first suit of male attire. Teach them
to feel they still belong to you, and must
give you a correct account of their time and
actions, and look to you for advice and coun-
sel; let them know that you love them as
well as their sisters. Let them play in the
house and in the yard; what if they do wear
out your carpets and mar your furniture, is
that any comparison to their worth?
	Do not be afraid they will be unmanly if
they associate freely with you and their
sisters; they will be more refined, more
courteous, and make better husbands and
fathers for it.
	It is seldom you see a case, where there
is an only son, brought up among many
sisters, and partaking freely of their influ-
ence, but he makes an exceptional man.
	Mothers cling to your boys, do not send
them out from you, to see, hear and learn
all the evils that prevail in this fast age, be-
fore their minds are capable of comprehend-
ing right from wrong. Try and put up with
their noise, it will be easy to bear compared
with their faults (and sins may be) if they
are allowed to roam at large. Be just as
careful in choosing companions for them as
for your girls; remember impressions made
in early youth stamp perceptibly the after
[Column 2]
﻿life—teach them to fear God, to honor His
laws and His servants; do not allow them
to fish and hunt and roam about on the
Sabbath day, while you and your daughters
dress yourselves with care and go to the
House of Worship.
	Boys must have their clothes made and
mended as well as girls; do not get out of
patience because they are so destructive,
and cannot darn their own socks or sew
on their buttons; their sphere is a different
one; they must perform more arduous labor;
on them eventually rests the fate of the
nation. Then if you would have the right
of women respected, teach your boys to love
and respect their mothers! Let them see
your earnestness and devotion to them, and
recognize their rights and privileges at
home, and you will be almost sure to do it
effectually. I contend, boys have as much
right in the parlor as girls; if they are not
permitted free access to the parlor at home
when little boys, how will they conduct
themselves there when they become young
men?
	How often have I heard mothers say, “I do
not trouble about my little boys, when they
are out of sight; they can take care of them-
selves,” forgetting that the tempter is al-
ways ready to ensnare the innocent and
unwary; that they may contract habits
which will totally unfit them for positions
they might otherwise occupy!
	Do not understand me that I exclude
the father from his jurisdiction—far from it.
But it is the mother who experts the most
abundant influence over the mind of a child.
Oftentimes the father is too much engrossed
in business, to be able to attend to these
duties; or abroad, preaching the Gospel.
Sometimes large families may prevent the
father paying such special attention to every
member; but a mother’s province is at
home. She should always know, unless
sickness or some inevitable cause prepent,
where her chidren are and what associa-
tions they are forming. 
	Look at history and see how. many great
and good men, Statesmen, Warriors and
even Kings attribute their successes,
more or less, to their mother’s influence-
and teaching. King Alfred the Great, whose
memory will never die, had a good and wise
mother, who in molding his mind and charac-
ter,taught him the value and importance of an
education, in an age when it was considered
only necessary for the priests, kings and men
of rank to distinguish themselves as great
warriors, hunters and horsemen; these were
their highest ambitions.
	But King Alfred devoted himself to study
also, and encouraged learning everywhere;
he founded schools for his subjects and the
two great colleges, Oxford and Cambridge.
	Mothers in Israel, my appeal is especially
to you. You wish your boys to become
honored instruments in the hands of God,
to help and assist in establishing righteous-
ness and the true principles pertaining to
life and salvation; then keep them pure,
just as much so as your daughters. Never
suffer them to use tobacco in any form; or
ardent spirits, which destroys the body and
deadens the mental faculties; never laugh
at rough talk or rude jests because they are
boys; let them see you do not approve of
either. Strive to make them all you most
admire in men. Be earnest, watchful and
prayerful in your labor of love, that your
sons may be fit for husbands, for fathers of
families, for Elders in Israel, for pillars in
Zion.
			BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 3. 1873.


ABOUT MATRIMONY

	WHOM DO GREAT MEN MARRY.

	Distinguished individuals show the same
diversity of taste that is seen in the lower
ranks, and on the whole make worse mis-
takes. They, however, show the same
sense in choosing wives that they show in
managing other people's affairs, whether
they be good or bad.
	Robert Burns married a farm girl with
whom he fell in love while they worked to-
gether in the plow-field. He was irregular
in his life, and committed the most serious
mistakes in conducting his domestic affairs.
	Milton married the daughter of a country
squire, but lived with her but a short time.
He was an austere, exacting, literary re-
cluse, while she was a rosy, romping country
lass, that could not bear the restraint im-
posed upon her, so they separated. subse-
quently, however, she returned and they
lived tolerably happy.
	Queen Victoria and Prince Albert were
cousins, and about the only example in the
long line of English monarchs wherein the
marital vows were sacredly observed, and
sincere affection existed.
	Shakespeare loved and wedded a farmer's
daughter. She was faithful to her vows,
but could hardly say the same of the great
bard himself. Like most of the great poets
he showed too little discrimination in be-
stowing his affections on the other sex.
	Byron married Miss Milbank to get money
to pay his debts. It turned out a bad
shift.
	Benjamin Franklin married the girl who
stood in her father's door, laughing at him
as he wandered through the streets of Phil-
adelphia, with rolls of bread under his arms,
and his pockets filled with dirty clothes.
She had occasion to be happy when she
found herself the wife of one who proved to
be a great and good man.
	Washington married a woman with two
children. It is enough to say she was worthy
of him, and, that they lived as married folks
should—in perfect harmony.
	John Adams married the daughter of a
Presbyterian clergyman. Her father ob-
jected on account of John's being a lawyer;
he had a bad opinion of the morals of the
profession.
	John Howard, the great philanthropist,
married his nurse. She was altogether be-
neath him in social life and intellectual
capacity; and, besides this, was fifty-two
years old, while he was but twenty-five.
He would not take "No" for answer, and
they were married and lived happily to-
gether until her death, which occurred
years afterwards.
	Peter the Great, of Russia, married a
peasant girl. She made an excellent wife
and a sagacious empress.
	Humboldt married a girl because he loved
her. Of course they were happy.
	It is not generally known that Andrew
Jackson married a lady whose husband was
still living. She was an uneducated but
amiable woman, and was most devotedly
attached to the old warrior and statesman.
	Edward Lytton Bulwer, the English
statesman and novelist, married a girl much
his inferior in position, and got a shrew for
a wife.


THE Hon. Ashur Ware, who died in Port-
land, Me., recently, at the age of 92 years,
was editor of the "Boston Yankee," in 1816,
and the “Portland Eastern Argus,” in 1817.
He held the office of District Judge 44
years, besides other important trusts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the EXPONENT.
			CARRIE.

	The last flowers my Carrie gathered.
	Like the fall flowers, nipped by the early
frost of September, so my Carrie faded and
died. When clearing the room the day
after her burial, I picked up some faded
flowers; but when in the act of throwing
them out, I paused and said—I cannot throw
these away, they are the last flowers my
Carrie gathered––I have them yet. And I 
have often thought, what a beautiful theme
for a poet!
	A few hours before she breathed her last,
she seemed to be in a vision, and calling
me to her bedside, said "Ma, I am going
home." When I burst into tears and said,
—Oh! do not leave me!—she took her
handkerchief and wiped the tears from my
cheeks, and laid her little, trembling hands
upon my face, saying "Is this how you feel
about it? Oh! bless you, my dear, dear 
mother!"
	When I withdrew, she called for her
father and brothers, and gave each the part-
ing kiss. Her only sister was absent at the
time.
	Every sharp word or correction that I had
ever given her, burst upon my mind. And
when I said—Carrie forgive me for every
unkind word—her reply was, "Oh! bless
you, my dear, dear mother!"
	Although the heart-strings of the friends
who are left to mourn, seem to be rent
assunder by the parting which death brings,
there is nothing dreadful in the death of
the sinless and pure, as was my Carrie
							W. E.


WISE WORDS OF GREAT MEN.

	EVERY generation laughs at the old fash-
ions, but follows religiously the new.—“Tho-
reau.”
	AVOID singularity. There may often be
less vanity in following the new modes than
in adhering to the old ones.—“Joubert.”
	WE sacrifice to dress till household joys
and comforts cease. Dress drains our cellar
dry, and keeps our larder lean.—“Cowper.
	MOTHERS, will you be missionaries? We
will appoint you a mission to teach your
children their duty; and instead of ruffles
and fine dresses to adorn the body, teach
them to adorn the mind, — “Brigham
Young.”
	BE neither too early in the fashion, nor
too long out of it, nor too precisely in it;
what custom hath civilized is become de-
cent, till then ridiculous; where the eye is
the jury, thy apparel is the evidence.—
“Quarles.”
	THE person whose clothes are extremely
fine I am too apt to consider as not being
possessed of any superiority of fortune but
resembling those Indians who are found to
wear all the gold they have in the world in
a bob at the nose.—“Goldsmith.”
	MEN of quality never appear more amia-
ble than when their dress is plain, Their
birth, rank, title, and its appendages are at
best invidious; and as they do not need the
assistance of dress, so, by disclaiming the
advantage of it, they make their superiority
sit more easy.—“Shenstone.”
	BEAUTY gains little and homliness and de-
formity lose much by gaudy attire. Lysander
knew this was in part true, and refused the
rich garments that the tyrant Dionysino prof-
ered to his daughters, saying, ‘that they were
fit only to make unhappy faces more remark-
able.”––“Zimmerman.
	IN Athens the ladies were not gaudily,


but simply arrayed, and we doubt whether
any ladies ever excited more admiration.
So also the noble old Roman matrons, whose
superb forms were gazed on delightedly
by men worthy of them, were always very
plainly dressed.—“George D. Prentice.”
	THOSE who are incapable of shining but
by dress would do well to consider that the
contrast between them and their clothes
turns out much to their disadvantage. It
is on this account I have sometimes observed
with pleasure, some noblemen, of immense
fortune, to dress exceeding plain.—“Shen-
stone.” 
	As long as there are cold and nakedness
in the land around you, so long can there be
no question at all but that splendor of dress
is a crime. In due time, when we have
nothing better to set people to work at, it
may be right to let them make lace and cut
jewels; but as long as there are any who
have no blankets for their beds, and no rags
for their bodies, so long it is blanket-making
and tailoring we must set people to work
at, not lace.—“Ruskin.”


THE JIMMYJOHNS.

	Mrs. Diaz tells in "Our Young Folks" a
comical story of two twins, who looked so
much alike that the neighbors could not
tell which was Jimmy and which Johnny,
and so called them "the Jimmy Johns."  And
this is the account of one of their funny 
"ways:"  When the Jimmy Johns were little
toddling things, just beginning to walk, 
they were constantly falling down, tipping
over in their cradle or bumping their heads
together; and Mrs. Plummer found that 
the best was to stop the crying, at such
times, was to turn to kissing.  The reason
is very plain.  In crying, the mouth flies
open; in kissing, it shuts.  Mrs. Plummer
was a wonderful woman.  She found out
that shutting the mouth would stop crying,
and to shut the mouth she contrived that
pretty kissing plan, and at the first sound of
a bump would catch up the little toddlers,
put their arms around each others necks, and
say:—"Kiss Johnny, Jimmy!  Kiss Jimmy, 
Johnny!"  It was enough to make anybody
laugh to see them in the midst of a crying
spell, run towards each other, their cheeks
still wet with tears, and to see their poor,
little, twisted crying mouths, trying to shut
up into a kiss!


LEAF PHOTOGRAPH.

	A very pretty amusement, especially for
those who have just completed the study of
botany, is the taking of leaf photographs.
One very simple process is this: At any
druggist’s get a dime’s worth of bichromate
of potash. Put this in a two-ounce bottle
of soft water. When the solution be-
comes saturated (that is, the water has
disolved as much as it will) pour out some
of the clear liquid into a shallow dish; on
this float a piece of ordinary writing paper,
till it is thoroughly and evenly moistened,
Let it become nearly dry, in the dark. It
should be a bright yellow. On this put the
leaf; under it a piece of soft black cloth,
and several sheets of newspaper. Put these
between two pieces of glass (all the pieces
should be of the same size), and with spring
clothes-pins, fasten them all together. Ex-
pose to a bright sun, placing the leaf so that
the rays will fall upon it as nearly perpen-
dicular as possible. In a few minutes it will
begin to turn brown; but it requires from
half an hour to several hours to produce a
perfect print. When it has become dark
enough, take it from the frame and put it


in clear water, which must be changed every
few minutes, till the yellow part becomes
perfectly white. By following these direc-
tions it is scarcely possible to fail, and little
practice will make perfect.


﻿   MISCELLANEOUS.

	THERE is a whole sermon in the saying of
the old Persian, “In all thy quarrels leave
open the door of reconciliation."
	All religious orders in Guatemala have
been suppressed and their property has been
devoted to instruction at San Juan, Del
Norte.
	SURELY one of the best rules in conversa-
tion, is never to say a thing which any of
the company can reasonably wish we had
rather left unsaid.—“Swift.”
	A SHREWD old gentleman once said to
his daughter, "Be sure, my dear, you
never marry a poor man; but the poorest
man in the world is one that has money and
nothing else."
	So witty a compliment is rarely made as
that of Sydney Smith's to his friends Mrs.
"Tighe and Mrs. Cuffe:—Ah, there you are
the cuff that every one would like to wear,
and the tie that no one would lose."
	"How will we settle the labor question?"
exclaimed a member of the Georgia Legis-
lature, in the midst of his speech. "By all
going to work, and earning your living
honestly!" thundered an irreverent specta-
tor in the gallery.
	THERE have been many definitions of a
gentleman, but the prettiest and most pa-
thetic is that given by a young lady, who
says:—“A gentleman is a human being
combining a woman's tenderness with a
man's courage."
	A MAN, after waltzing six times with one
lady at a ball, was asked if he was fond of
dancing. “Oh, no,” replied the youth, "I
don't care for it, but my doctor advised me
to-day to take a sweat, and this is cheaper
than a Turkish bath."
	AT a recent Connecticut wedding, in re-
peating the words, "If you know of any
just cause," etc., the minister looked
straight at a nervous young man directly in
front of him. The fellow sprang up with
much haste and trepidation, and blurted out:
"Oh, no, bless me! not the slightest objec-
tion, sir."
	HE who has not learned the lesson of
resolute self-help has made little progress
as a student, has grown little towards real
manhood. Half the world refuses to do its
own thinking, to toil through the solution
of its own knotty problems, hence half the
world who will not do this must be subject
to the other half who will. They who do
the thinking will either directly or indi-
rectly do the governing.


﻿"ONE of the most interesting features of
the Granges” (of the Patrons of Husbandry,
the new Order founded by the Western
farmers to oppose the encroachments of rail-
road monoply), says Coleman’s Rural World,
"is that not a single one can be organized
without the companionship of the ladies.


﻿Two girls in New Bedford, Massachusetts,
aged twelve and fourteen, who lost their
father some months ago, have, since his
death, taken the entire care of a horse, five
cows, and a great flock of hens; done all of
the odd “chores” about the house, attended
public school, and in their leisure moments
taken lessons on the piano.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

		TELL YOUR WIFE.
	If you are in trouble or a difficulty, tell
your wife—that is, if you have one—all
about it at once. Ten to one, her invention
will solve your difficulty sooner than all
your logic. The wit of woman has been
praised, but her instincts are quicker than
her reason. Take counsel with your wife,
or your mother, or sister, and be assured
that light will flash upon your darkness.
Women are too commonly pronounced shal-
low in all but purely womanish affairs. No
philosophical student of the sex thus judges
them. Their intuitions, or insights, are
subtile, and if they cannot see a cat in the
dark cupboard, there is no cat there.
	In counseling a man to tell his wife, we
would go further, and advise him to keep
none of his affairs from her. Many a home
has been happily saved and many a fortune
retrieved by man’s confidence in his “better
half.” Woman is far more a seer and a
prophet than a man, if she have a fair
chance. As a general rule, wives confide
their minutest plans and thoughts to their
husbands, having no involvements to screen
from them. Why not reciprocate, if but for
the pleasure of meeting confidence with
confidence?
	We are certain that no man succeeds so
well in the world as he who, taking a part-
ner for life, makes her the partner of all his
purposes and hopes. What is wrong of his
impulses or judgment she will check and
make right with her almost univerally right
instincts.
	"Help-meet was no insignificant title, as
applied to man's companion. She is a meet-
help to him in every darkness, difficulty,
and sorrow of life. And what she most
craves, and most deserves, is confidence—
without which love is never free from
shadow.
	Why is kissing your sweetheart like
eating soup with a fork? Because it takes
a long time to get a enough of it.
	BRINGING A SISTER TO TERMS.
	Sister.—“If you don’t give up making
that noise with your drum, I’ll call ma.”
Juvenile.—“Do, and I’ll tell her how the par-
son hugged you last night whenyou let him
out.” (Sister subsides.)
       ANECDOTE OF DR. JOHNSON.
	Andrew Miller was a principal proprietor
of Dr. Johnson’s Dictionary, and the man-
ager or treasurer of the fund out of which
payments were from time to time made to
the author. When the work was com-
pleted, Andrew was so overjoyed, that he
sent the following acknowledgment of the
receipt of the last sheet of the manuscript.
	“Andrew Miller sends his compliments
to Mr. Samuel Johnson, with the money for
the last sheet of copy of the Dicitionary, and
thanks God he has done with him."
	Which drew from Johnson this keen
retort:
	“Samuel Johnson returns his compliments
to Mr. Andrew Miller, and is very glad to
find, as he does by his note, that Andrew
Miller has the grace to thank God for any-
thing.”
		SHE HAD THEM THERE.
	A lady in town chances to be unfortunate
in the opinion of some of her neighbors.
A physician has of late been necessitated to
visit her family rather frequently. There
being no hitching post before the lady’s own
door, the doctor several times fastened his
horse to a post in front of a neighbor’s resi-
dence. This he was shortly warned not to
do again. So, when next the Æsculapius

[Column 2]
made his appearance, he asked the lady who
was at one of the windows of the house,
where he should “tie up.”
	“Let the horse stand,” was the prompt
reply “the neighbors will watch him for
you!"
	Enough of those same neighbors heard
the complimentary remark—we only hope
it did them good.
			HABITS.
	Like flakes of snow, that fall upon the
earth, the seemingly unimportant events of
life succeed one another. As the snow
gathers together, so are habits formed ; no
single flake that is added to the pile pro-
duces a sensible change; no single action
creates, however it may exhibit, a man’s
character; but as the tempest hurls the ava-
lanche down the mountain, and overwhelms
the inhabitant and his habitation, so passion,
acting on the elements of mischief, which 
pernicious habits have brought together by
imperceptible accumulations, may overthrow
the edifice of truth and virtue.


THE SEX.

	“We need woman’s influence in govern-
ment, to aid in the suppression of vice and
intemperance.”—“Bishop Simpson.”
	THE girl of this age is unfit to be wed
who don’t understand  how to make nice
sweet bread. And the man is a dunce who
a partner will take, who don’t undersand
how to wash, knit and bake.
	AN Illinois girl having six lovers offered
to marry the one who should “break up”
the most prairie in three days. The result
was she got a smart husband, and her father
found his farm ready for planting free of
cost.
	WITH woman’s influence with us, we
shall have no such word as fail. Her in-
fluence is for good, and we are glad to know
she will exert it in behalf of those who are
nearest and dearest to her.”—Coleman’s
“Rural World.”
	A MARRIED friend of ours said he would
always have remained single, but he
couldn’t afford it. What it  cost him for
“gals and ice cream,” was more than he
now pays to bring up a wife and eight chil-
dren. Bachelors should think of this.
	IN TURKESTAN a traveler relates, if the
husband of any woman go away upon a
journry and remain away for more than
twenty days, as soon as that time is past the
woman may marry another man, and the
husband also may marry whom he pleases.


﻿FLOWERS.

	HE who is only in good health and is wil-
ling to work has nothing to fear in this
world.
	BAD temper bites at both ends; it makes
one’s-self nearly as miserable as it does oth-
er people.
	IT is almost impossible to state any truth
strongly without seeming to conflict with
some other truths.
	BE slow to decide but quick to perform.
	THE three things most difficult are:—To
keep a secret, to forget an injury, and to
make good use of leisure.
	THERE cannot be a pleasant smile on the
lips of the hopeless. The blow that crushes
the life will shatter the smile.
	SPARE moments are the gold dust of time.
Of all the portions of our life, spare moments
are the most fruitful in good or evil.


EXAMINE YOURSELF.—Do it impartially;
do it faithfully; do it often. Sit down by
yourself, and shutting out all thoughts on
other subjects, review your own life for the
last day—for the last week. Recall both your
acts and your words, for both to others and
to yourself your words are often as serious
realities as your actions.


MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours--10 a m. to 3 p m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street. Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.	jel5

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,

	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand. 

			NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$13 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches. of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 2.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1873	No. 13.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE REEDSBURY "Free Press" is said to
employ only women and girls to do its work,
and to comment thus: We have a calico
"foreman", two dimity. "compositors" and
the sweetest little "devil" in pink muslin,
that can be found any where.
	The HON. George Q. Cannon has been
admitted a member of the House of Repre-
sentatives at Washington. Possessing the
confidence, and being assured that he has
the faith and prayers of the people he rep-
resents, his labors there will, undoubtedly,
be efficient in their behalf.
	A FOND mother is said to have carried home
a bundle of lace ruffles, a bolt of silk, some
ribbons and skeins of worsted, the other
day, from a store in one of our western
cities, where she left her baby lying on the
counter. We don't credit the story. Babies
are not so stupid as to admit of such a 
blunder if a mother might be.
	MR. JOSEPH ARCH suggests in a letter to
the Commissioners of Immigration, that an
emmigrant house be established, combining
cleanliness and comfort with protection, in
which newly arrived immigrants, who may
be obliged to wait in New York for employ-
ment or transportation west, may be pro-
vided with a home without resorting to the
swindling boarding houses of the city. It
is a praiseworthy suggestion.
	"THE BOLTON GUARDIAN" (England,)
has been publishing interesting letters from
Mr. Birch, and one signing himself "Equal-
ity," the former defending, the latter con-
temning polygamy. In one of his commu-
nications, "Equality" says, "As an English-
man, my indignation naturally arose to see
such an ungodly thing as polygamy defend-
ed." As an Englishman, then, how would
"Equality" deal with the wretched practice
so common in England, by which hundreds
of women become mothers who are never
acknowledged by any man as wives?
"Equality's" views upon the subject of mar-
riage, appear very one sided, as do the opin-
ions of most of the so-called Christian world,
which would deny more than half its wo-
men the privilege of marrying at all.
	A VERY extraordinary accident by which
the Persian gulf cable was broken, has been
recorded in late papers. The cable between
Khurrachee and Gwadur, about 300 miles
distance, suddenly failed to work one eve-
ning. It was found necessary in order to
make repairs, to wind in the cable, in per-
forming which, more than usual resistance
was experienced. After a considerable
amount of time and perseverance, an im-
mense whale was brought to the surface,
and found to be firmly secured, immediately
above the tail, by two and a half tons of the
cable. The body had been partly eaten by
sharks and other fish, and was rapidly de-
composing. The tail, which measured 12
feet across, was perfect, and covered with
branches at the extremities; and it was sup-
posed that with a sudden fillip of this tail,
the fish had twisted the cable about him, and
been unable to extricate himself.
[Column 2]
	AN EXCHANGE has the following concern-
ing Woman's Rights in Russia. Form-
erly their sole public employment was the
sweeping of the streets under the eye, or
rather under the whip of the Police, and
this was a privilege confined to drunkards.
But now all is changed; and at a time when
Britain is trying to exclude them from its
medical colleges, an edict has been issued
by the Czar to afford them facilities for ac-
quiring a thorough knowledge of midwife-
ry, and the other branches of Surgery and
Medicine. They are also to be admitted as
workers in telegraph offices. They are en-
joined to "avoid negligence and sauciness,
and above all, to propagate no scandal."
They are not, however, to be intrusted with
the privilege of voting, or of meeting in
public for the purpose of discussing philo-
sophic questions." Apparently, the cause
of woman is progressing favorably in nearly
all parts of the world--the United States
should be no longer slow to perceive wo-
man's needs and grant her justice in all re-
spects. 
	OF THE "Virginius" affair, which has
caused so much talk and excitement of late,
we find no account of the particulars more ful-
ly given in few words, than which appears in
President Grant's Message. He says, "The
steamer "Virginius" was, on the 26th day
of Sept., 1870, duly registered at the port of
New York as a part of the commercial ma-
rine of the U. S. On the 4th of October, 1870,
having the certificate of her register in the
usual legal form, she sailed from the port of
New York, and has not since been within the
territorial jurisdiction of the U. S. On the
31st of October last, while sailing under the
flag of the U. S., on the high seas, she was
forcibly seized by the Spanish gunboat "Tor-
nado," and was carried into the port of San-
tiago de Cuba, where many of her passen-
gers and crew were inhumanely and, at least
as related to those who were citizens of the
U. S., without due process of law put to
death. It is a well established principle,
asserted by the U. S. from the beginning of
our national independence, and recognized
by Great Britain and other maritime pow-
ers, and stated by the Senate in a resolution
passed unanimously on the 16th of June,
1858, that American vessels on the high seas
in the time of peace, bearing the Ameri-
can flag remain under the jurisdiction of the
country to which they belong, and therefore
any visitation, molestation or interference
with such vessels by force on the part of a
foreign power, is in derogation of the sov-
ereignty of the U.S. In accordance with
this principle, the restoration of the "Vir-
ginius" and the surrender of the survivors
of her passengers and crew, due reparation
to the flag, and the punishment of the au-
thorities who had been guilty of the illegal
acts of violence, were demanded. The
Spanish government has recognized the
justice of the demand, and has arranged for
the immediate delivery of the vessel and
for the surrender of the survivors of the
passengers and crew, and for a salute to the
flag, and for proceedings looking to the pun-
ishment of those who may be proved to have
been guilty of illegal acts of violence to-
wards citizens of the United States; and
[Column 3]
also towards indemnifying those who may
be shown to be entitled to indemnity."


A GIRL HERO.

	Acts of heroism are not alone performed
by men. They are not limited to battle fields
or to the deck of sinking vessels. Lottie
Dougherty, of Millville, New Jersey, a
young school girl, studied telegraphing last
summer, and in August accepted a situa-
tion at Randor, a station on the Central Penn-
sylvania Railroad, boarding at Eagle Sta-
tion, a mile or more distant. One evening,
a thunderstorm came up. The lightning
tiruck the instrument and burned out the
magnet. She supplied another and was
ready for business. Going to the door she
noticed by the light of a flash of lightning,
that a large tree had been uprooted by the
storm and blown across the track. An ex-
press train was due in a few minutes, and
local trains would follow it. She compre-
hended the situation in a moment, and op-
posed by several men in the station, she
seized a signal lamp, ran through the fear-
ful storm up the track, and swung her lamp
till she heard the engineer whistle down
brakes. The speed of the train was checked,
so that the cars were not thrown off the
track, though the locomotive struck the
tree with such violence as to hurl a heavy
branch against the girl’s shoulder, throwing
her down the embankment into a deep ditch.
She was taken out and carried to the office
where she telegraphed the news of the ac-
cident and remained on duty all night. A
large sum of money was collected for her
by the passengers, which she refused. Six
months after, the brave girl died from the
injuries received in saving the train. Men
and women, whose lives were saved, a great
corporation, whose property was saved, took
little thought of the poor girl who had ha-
zarded so much. Struggling for home and
parents, she remained at her post of duty
almost to the time that death came to her.
––EX.


﻿Illinois has lately elected eleven ladies to
be School Superintendents.
	REMAINS OF A MASTODON.—Mr. Litt, re-
siding some six miles north of this place,
not long since, whilst sinking a well, and
after having passed through the hard pan
and several stratas of sand, at forty-five feet
reached a bed of gravel, and with it an
abundance of good water. Embedded, how-
ever, in the top of the gravel, he passed
through the skeleton of a mastodon. Sev-
eral of the bones, in a good state of preser-
vation, were brought to the surface. In
one of the bones was discovered a flint ar-
row-head, such as is in common use by the
present Indians of this continent. The ar-
row-head was so completely embedded in
the bone that there can be little doubt  that
it was shot into the monster animal near the
time of its death. This fact carries with it
the reflection that these monster animals,
the remains of which are now visible, do
not antedate the present Indian race inhab-
iting our continent.—[Modesto News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent
	     LIGHT FROM THE GRAVE. 

		DEDICATED TO A. E. T.

My soul is strangely stirred this Sabbath morn,
Within her silent chambers Memory sings,
My thoughts seem of ecstatic rapture born,
The air is sweet as fanned by angel wings;
Thus cheered, through Mem’ry’s solemn haunts I’ll stray
And seek the grave which in my soul was made;
From that sad sepulchre I’ll roll the stone away,
Where youth’s bright dreams so long ago were laid.

In childhood sweet, one chosen friend was mine;
Years coming found, and flying left us true;
Time only made our spirits closer twine
And o’er us shed sweet Faith’s ambrosial dew.
But when our childish feet approached the door
Where womanhood, the lovely, holds the key,
Another came and, where no doubt had been before,
Sowed cold distrust in her warm heart for me.

Alas! love, ’twas a bitter thing to learn
That our twin spirits thus could sundered be,
And oft deep scorn would in my bosom burn
When you as some cold stranger looked on me.
But ah! my love was rooted far too deep
To be thus rudely torn and thrust away,
Its anguished moans disturbed my fitful sleep,
Its pleading voice rang in my ear by day.

It urged, you must BELIEVE you had just cause
(Though I, perhaps, its nature ne’er might know,)
To harbor doubt of me; ’twere well to pause
Nor judge in haste: 'twas that which wounded so.
Love conquered; and long years I meekly bore
The cross of your unmerited disdain.
Still hoping truth revealed would bring once more
My heart’s lost idol to my side again.

My hope was vain! for soon pale Death drew near
And claimed in youth’s sweet pride and glorious bloom
My sister soul, who, void of guilty fear,
Descended meekly to the grave’s soft gloom.
Your cherished friends received with your farewell
Sweet words to save fond Memory from despair,
But me no dove-winged message came to tell
You e’en forgave my unknown error there.

None ever shed such bitter tears as mine
On this cold stone above thy bright young head,
Hope’s fairy light was quenched, no more to shine
On my sad soul for silent are the dead.
O cruel stone! to hide those glorious eyes
Which kindled to all truth, save only mine;
Now must they never pierce the deep disguise
Which round my love did envious falsehood twine.

So mourned I deeming all forever lost,
In my blind grief forgetting God is good;
But whence, upon my soul so sorrow-tost,
Comes this sweet peace in bright, celestial flood?
Hast learned, at last, the truth, my peerless one,
That changeless, guileless was my love for you?
And in that fairer life, so late begun,
Dost pay with love the sorrow I’ve passed through?

Oh, God be thanked! in other life than this
Deception cannot find a lurking place,
And, heart to heart, we two may bathe in bliss
And see and know each other face to face.
I seem to hear her low voice in my ear,
To feel her hands caress my lowly head;
Oh, happy day! that led my footsteps here,
Through these sweet walks and silent aisles to tread.
LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS

A TEACHERS' monthly meeting was held
Nov. 6th, 1873, at the Third Ward School
House, Salt Lake City. Very few attend 
the meetings, compared with the number
that belongs to the Society; but those who
do attend are punctual and diligent and ex-
press a willingness to do all they can for the
advancement of the Kingdom of God.
	The word Female we have dropped from 
our Society.
	Several of the Sisters take the EXPONENT
and are pleased with its contents; we wish
it great success.
		ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Secretary.

	The Relief Society of the Fifth and
Sixth Wards, Salt Lake City, is reported by
Secretary Mrs. Catherine Anderson.
[Column 2]
	An annual meeting was held in the 
Sixth Ward school house, Wednesday, No-
vember 12th, 1873.
	It has been resolved to omit the word
"Female" from the name of the Society.
	The Society is in a prosperous condition; 
meetings well attended; the sisters, energetic
in attending their duties, besides reliev-
ing the needy, have assisted in erecting a
new school house. Mrs. Rhoda A. Fullmer
is President.

	From Santaquin, Nov. 19th, 1873, Sec-
retary Julia D. Wilson writes:
	Our Relief Society still flourishes, and is
doing a good work in helping the poor and
comforting the sick. The sisters are gener-
ally united.
	We held our fifth annual meeting Nov.
6th. Our President is a worthy woman,
alive to the interests of the Kingdom of 
God.
	A Young Ladies' Retrenchment Associa-
tion, now numbering thirty-five members,
has been organized here.

	Mrs. B. A. Goodel, President of the
Relief Society at Washington, sends us a
report of that association. It was organ-
ized the fourteenth of October, 1868. Its
members have labored under many disad-
vantages with cheerfulness and zeal; striv-
ing to do their part in honorably sustaining 
the noble cause they represent in connection
with the Relief Societies elsewhere. They
have a fine hall nearly completed in which,
ere long, their meetings will be held. Their
fifth annual meeting held the fourteenth of
last October, was favored with the presence 
and good teachings of the Presidency in
that portion of country.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Matthews and Mrs. M. G.
Whitehead are counselors to President Mrs. 
Goodel.

	The Relief Society of Ogden City, held 
a meeting Nov. 27th, in the New City Hall.
There was a large attendance, many spoke,
the spirit of God was made manifest not
only by their speaking but through what
had been accomplished the past week in
taking care of the poor.
	God bless all who are willing to assist the 
needy. 		   A. M. FRODSHAM, Secretary.
	Secretary Mrs. Agnes S. Armstrong writes
from Ephraim, Sanpete Co., that the Relief 
Society of that place is in good condition,
"all the good sisters" belonging to it and
each one striving to do her very best. Their
young ladies were organized into an associ-
ation last March, with a President, six Coun-
selors and a secretary; namely:
	Miss CAROLINE JENSEN, President,
	  "	C. M. WILLARDSEN, <} Counselors.>
	  "	K. E. MADSEN, <} Counselors.>
	  "	A. MARTENSEN, <} Counselors.> 
	  "	JULIA THORPE, <} Counselors.>
	Mrs. ANNA PETERSEN, <} Counselors.>
	Miss JULIA DORIMUS, <} Counselors.>
	  "	HELEN E. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.
	Our correspondent speaks of a very agree-
able visit made to the settlement by Elders
Joseph, Lorenzo D. and William G. Young,
during which the people felt greatly blest
by the good instructions which the mission-
aries gave. At time of writing, the weather
was delightful and the general health of the
citizens good, though some cases of measles
were in town.


Mrs. McIntosh, of Joliet, Illinois, has been
elected County school Superintendent by a
handsome majority over three male com-
petitors.


[For the Exponent.
		HOME WORK.
How often we hear the quotation "Charity
begins at home;" perhaps when we are en-
gaged in some kind act of benevolence, and
all the better feelings of our natures are
roused to do good to a fellow-creature,
some one will throw a damper upon our
glowing enthusiasm, by repeating this world-
wide saying.
	Sisters, do not let this hinder us from do-
ing good to others, nor cause our souls to
contract into a nut-shell, fearful lest we
should be of some use, or benefit in the
world, aside from our own individual home-
circle; but let us be sure and satisfy ourselves
thoroughly that our work has begun at home,
by our own fireside.
	There is something for parents to do be-
sides providing food and raiment for their
children, and sending them to day and
Sunday school; there is also a home educa-
tion which commences one can scarcely de-
fine when, in the absence of which there is
a lack in the character and life of a child that
extends over to mature years. Let us then
make our homes happy ones, bright and
cheerful by kind words and sunny smiles,
play with the children, romp with them
occasionally, tell them pleasing and simple
stories, sing with them, pray for them,
impress upon them the love of truth, teach
them the spirit of forgiveness, and charity
one for another, make everything pleasant
and inviting around them, that the recol-
lection of their childhood's home may linger
in their memories forever. Home may be
ever so poor or humble, but if father and
mother dwell in love and strive together
for true happiness, the children will grow
up in an atmosphere of gladness, and sun-
shine, and the remembrance of the beloved
ones, with whom they associated there, will
be held sacred in their heart of hearts.
	One may get the finest education possible
to be obtained in our modern schools, but if
he or she has never had a home of peace
and comfort there will be a feeling of regret
that will never wear away. "I had a hap-
py home," you will hear remarked by some
good tempered, genial man or woman, and
we almost knew it before from, the happy
disposition.
	Let us teach our little ones the gospel of
Jesus as we understand it—tell them how
the Savior loved little children—many of
us have been too careless in regard to our
children in times past—let us be wide-awake
now. The Lord has abundantly blest us
with peace and plenty, we have time, if we
will use it wisely, for the instruction and
benefit of our children and each other, and
to make our homes truly homes of piety,
intelligence, culture and refinement.
	But O! the magnitude of the work devolv-
ing upon us, if we keep in any wise the
golden rule, "To do unto others as we would
that they should do unto us." Our sisters
are gathered from all countries nearly, and
many of them have never known what a
real genuine home is. They have been
compelled to work early and late in order to
obtain even the common necessaries of
life; consequently they know nothing about
instructing their children at home. Here
in Zion, if they are industrious, they will
get homes of their own, they will have time
for the cultivation of their minds, for the
development of their intellects, and is it
not our duty to assist them in this work of
improvement by all the means in our power
and to give them, as much as possible, the
benefit of our experience?
	The question naturally arises, how can we
do it? We cannot go from house to house


prying into other people's affairs and search-
ing out their home life; Oh no, certainly not;
but we can, each of us, use all our influence
in doing good, giving good and sound advice
to those around us wherever and whenever
there is an opening, take especial pains to
encourage a spirit of home-culture, and to
procure a wide circulation for the EXPONENT
which will be a great blessing and advantage
to the home-circle; never neglecting an op-
portunity to do a home-work. Zion is our
home, as well as our own fireside; we are
brothers and sisters all; then let us be co-
workers in our labor of love at home, and
though we are not called upon to preach the
Gospel to the nations, let us diligently and
faithfully fill our home-sphere, using all the
talents God has given us for the dissemina-
tion of truth and light.
	Let us be earnest workers, zealous for "to-
day;" never shrinking from duty; patterns
of propriety and consistency in all our
efforts to prepare ourselves and our children,
for lives of honor and practical usefulness;
never "weary in well-doing," whether our
efforts are appreciated or not; we may be
misunderstood but if our motives are pure
and our consciences' clear, we shall "in no
wise lose our reward."
				Blanche Beachwood.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 21, 1873.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
	MORTAL AND IMMORTAL ELEMENTS
		OF THE HUMAN BODY. 
 
A PHILOSOPHICAL OBJECTION TO THE RESUR-
		RECTION, REMOVED.

	BY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.

	The subject of the resurrection of the dead, 
although of inexpressible interest to all of the 
human family, is very little understood by 
man in the flesh, and will not be explained 
until he who holds the keys pertaining to it 
for this dispensation, shall develop its prin-
ciples. 
	Although we cannot penetrate the cloud
of obscurity which envelops this subject; 
knowing, as we do, that death is certain, it
is natural that we should enquire in the 
depths of our souls, What and where is our
future? Shall the spirit and the body again be
united? Who, that does not altogether ig-
nore the idea of a resurrection of the body, 
but experiences at times, a bewilderment of 
thought concerning it?
	Realizing that, in accordance with estab-
lished laws of nature, the substances which 
now compose these bodies of ours, will, 
after death, become identified parts of in-
numerable other human bodies, also be incor-
porated into the bodies of beasts, insects, 
fowls &c. and through them bequeathed to
others; the question naturally arises, 'How
can they be again restored to us? And, if 
restored to us, from what source will the 
deficiency be supplied to other bodies?'	This is a problem which neither the rules
of science nor the wisdom of man, unaided
by revelation, can solve–a problem which
infidelity very plausably applies as a settled
refutation to the doctrine of the resurrec-
tion–one in which the worldly wise phi-
losopher finds a palpable inconsistency, and 
one which in the face of sound reason
amounts to the impossibility of a reorgan-
ization of a human body: for what reflecting
mind does not see that the laws of nature
which apply to the decomposition of the
elements which constitute the living body, 
preclude a possibility of the same material 
being restored, at one and the same time, 
to all bodies of which it has comprised com-
ponent parts in millions of instances, at dif-
ferent times; and, believing God to be a
consistent Being, and acting in accordance
with eternal, unchanging laws, and admit-
ting that these laws are harmonious- that
the higher operate in consonance with, and
are never antagonistic to those of a lower
order, is it a matter of surprise that think-
ing people of a highly intelligent class, in
many instances, yield to infidelity and adopt
the humiliating conclusion that the resur-
rection is only a phantom of the brain: while
others, with little or no reflection, content 
themselves by admitting that, "with God 
all things are possible," without questioning 
in what manner, or by what means the re-
sult will be effected. 
	His communications to, and the dealings
of God with man, so far as they are made
known to us, are characterized as those of
an intelligent Being conversing and dealing
with intelligent beings of the same order, 
but in a vastly lower state of development. 
	In His works, order is every where strik-
ingly apparent, and we find law, or rather
codes of law regulating and governing, not
only every department of life, but also every
grade and variety of matter. From the 
smallest speck that glitters and dances in 
the bright sunshine, to the glowing galaxy 
above us, representing system on system of 
worlds in the mighty distance, order is
everywhere manifest. Each department, 
whether of life or inanimate matter, is gov-
erned by laws particularly adapted to the 
peculiarities of its own identity, and in regu-
lar gradation from the smallest atom and
the most diminutive animalcule to the high-
est intelligences above; and all, whether 
assigned to different localities or interming-
ling in countless varieties- all operating in 
harmony, and not interfering with, or tres-
passing on each other. 
	Just so far as those laws are developed to
our understandings we pronounce them nat-
ural principles; and what, with us consti-
tutes a miracle, is nothing more nor less
than our ignorance of the process or law by
which the result is produced: for instance,
when our Savior in Cana of Galilee, chang-
ed water into wine, it is evident that he 
manufactured the wine through the agency 
of chemical laws of a higher order than
those who taught in the schools, hence the peo-
ple were filled with astonishment, for to
them, the performance was a miracle, they
probably being as ignorant of the laws
through which the result was obtained, as 
we now are concerning the resurrection of 
the dead. 
	In relation to the objections urged against
the reorganizing of the human body, we 
are in  possession of a very important and 
beautiful principle which pours a flood of 
light into the mind—obviates a heretofore
insurmountable difficulty, and disarms infi-
delity of its strongest plea against the resur-
rection, and puts impossibility to silence.
	By this we are instructed that the resurrec-
tion of the body is independent of all gross, 
divisible and transferable matter, and this
removes every rational objection against the
reunion of body and spirit, based on the in-
controvertible laws of nature pertaining to
the decomposition of the body, and the sub-
sequent transformations and reproductions
of the material of which it was composed. 
These are substances borrowed for this pro-
bationary use—to subserve the necessities 
of this mortal existence—to render us tangi-
ble to gross tangability, and for which, after
death, our bodies will have no further use.
	As soon as the spirit leaves the body, and
frequently before, nature's great work of
decomposition commences, and continues
till every particle of gross, volatile matter
is disengaged and by natural laws of affinity
passes into other forms, combining with oth-
er substances through an affinitude of
changes; and co-operating in an endless va-
riety of reproductions: as, for instance, the
grass that grows over the grave incorporates
a portion of the gross substance escaping
from the decaying body beneath: the cow, 
the sheep and the goose devour the grass
which, through the natural laws of nourish-
ment produces flesh—people eat the flesh of 
the cow, sheep and goose, and thus we may
trace the same identical matter, perhaps 
divided and sub-divided into infinitessimal
particles and passing into every form of hu-
man, brutal, insect, vegetable, and atmos-
pheric existence- going onward from gen-
eration to generation. 
	But thanks to God for the key which solves
the mystery. Every organized human 
body, independent of the spirit, (which is a 
separate organization) is composed of two
distinct classes or grades of matter, and in
such mutual combination as to subserve the 
purposes of this lower existence. One is
gross, volatile—subject to change and decay
through a precarious union of earth, air, fire
and water—tangible to mortal sight and
touch, and subject to all the laws of decom-
position. The other is pure, invisible, in-
tangible and capable of resisting every law 
of infraction or dissolubility. This, when
the spirit leaves the body, remains INTACT—
never being incorporated with other bodies
or substances. This is the precious material
that will be resurrected in perfect form, and 
compose the immortal tabernacle of the im-
mortal spirit. 
	It is well understood that resurrected be-
ings are invisible to these gross organs of
sight except when they are quickened by
immortal vision—that if the dead  were
brought forth within viewing distance of us,
we should not see them. Why not? The
resurrected body being composed of this
pure material, can only be seen by organs of
sight formed of the same pure matter, un-
clogged with gross substance.
	While the gross portion is disorganizing
and reorganizing, being perpetually chang-
ing and in motion—while the disembodied
spirit is associating in the world above; the
pure substance, the precious germ of an
immortal tabernacle, the jewel's casket,
quietly sleeps in the bosom of mother Earth,
awaiting the eternal mandate, which, in
accordance with the higher code the celestial
law, shall reunite it w[---] the joyous spirit
filled with eternal intelligence, no more to
be separated.
	The Earth also, combines in its present
organization, both of the above mentioned
classes of elements; and [---] well as man, will
yet experience a process of purifiation
before it can become the h[--]itation and ever-
lasting inheritance of resurrected, immor-
tal, embodied intelligen[----] "The elements
shall melt with fervent heat." After hav-
ing passed the the purifying ordeal of fire, and
having been cleansed from all combustible
and volatile properties, the earth will pass
from its present orbit, to the position among
the creations of God, from which it has fall-
en in  consequence of man's transgression:
and then will that prediction of our Savior
be fully realized—"The meek shall inherit 
the earth."


Boston requires her entire Fire Depart-
ment to sign the total abstinence pledge.
	Richter is painting a portrait of Maria
Alexandrovna of Russia, which is to be giv-
en to her future mother-in-law, Queen
Victoria.


[Column 1]

 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
L. GREEN RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
 One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager, Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1873.
AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.

			  AGENTS.
			  Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
 ,,	Margt. P. Young,	 ,,	Amanda Kimball
 ,, 	Lily Staines,		 ,,	Elizabeth Davis,
 ,,	Sarah Smith,		 ,,	Hampton, 16th
 ,,	Mary J. Thomson, 			Ward,
 ,,	Margaret Steel,	 ,,   Sarah E. Smith,
		    Miss Sarah E. Russell.
		    CORRESPONDENTS.
Mrs. Laura Miner,		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
,,	A. B. Smith,		Miss Mary E. Cook.
			       AGENTS.
			  Weber County,
,,	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
		      Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  ,,	Mary Rich, Paris.
			    Rich County
	  ,,	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	  ,,	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			   Cache County.
	  ,,	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	  ,,	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
			  Box Elder County.
	  ,,	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	  ,,	Aurelia Rogers,	,,
	  ,,	Margaret Randell, Centreville,
	  ,,	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  "	Susan Grant, 		     ,,
	  "	Sylvia Clark,		     ,,
[Column 2]
		 Salt Lake County.
  ,,	–––– Higgins, West Jordan,
  ,,	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
		tonwood.
		 Tooele County.
Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
Mrs. E. Clegg,
Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
		 Utah County.
 ,,	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
 ,,	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
 ,, 	–––– Harrison,		   ,,
 ,,	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
		 Juab County.
 ,,	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
 ,,	Ann Pitchforth,
 ,,	Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
		 Sanpete County.
 ,,	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
		City,
 ,,	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
 ,,	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
Mrs. Mary Thorpe,		,,
		 Millard County.
 ,,	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
 ,,	Belinda M. Pratt,	,,
Miss Mary Callister,	,,
		 Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
 ,,	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
		 Iron County.
 ,,	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith, 	,,
		 Kane County.
Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
 ,,	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
		Cedar City.
	   Washington County.
 ,,	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
		St. George,
 ,,	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


[Column 1]
		ASKING FOR MONEY.

ON first reading the following, which we clip
from "The Woman's Journal," it did not strike
us as being anything particularly appropriate
for the consideration of husbands in general;
and until we had complied with a request to
read it aloud in the presence of some half
dozen experienced ladies, and heard their united
opinions that it was exactly the right thing to
be presented to most men, we did not imagine
one young husband, who, since the day of their
marriage, has had the good judgment to hand
his wife a liberal share of all his earnings, not
merely for safe keeping, but as her own, so
great an exception among men. We are pleased
to allege, however, that there is one such exam-
ple, and hope, if there are but few such now,
that the many will take pattern by the few;
for as it not only saves a wife the annoyance of
asking for money, but the husband the annoy-
ance of being asked also, it is most consistent
with justice and harmony in family life.
	One of the very best wives and mothers I
have ever known once said to me, that when-
ever her daughters should be married, she
should stipulate in their behalf with their hus-
bands for a regular sum of money to be paid
them, at certain intervals, for their personal
expenditures. Whether this sum was to be
larger or smaller was a matter of secondary
importance,—that must depend on the income
and the style of living—but the essential thing
was that it should come to the wife regularly,
so that she should no more have to make a
special request for it than her husband would
have to ask her for a dinner. This lady's own
husband was, as I happened to know, of a most
generous disposition, was devotedly attached
to her, and denied her nothing. She herself
was a most accurate and careful manager.
There was everything in the household to make
the financial arrangements flow smoothly. Yet
she said to me, "I suppose no man can possibly
understand how a sensitive woman shrinks
from ASKING for money. If I can prevent it,
my daughters shall never have to ask for it.
If they do their duty as wives and mothers
they have a right to their share of the joint
income, within reasonable limits; for, certain-
ly, no money could buy the services they ren-
der. Moreover they have a right to a share in
determining what those reasonable limits are."
	Now it so happened that I had myself gone
through an experience which enabled me per-
fectly to comprehend this feeling. In early life
I was for a time in the employ of a kind friend
who paid me a fair salary but at no definite
periods; I was at liberty to ask him for money
whenever I needed it. This seemed to me, in
advance, a most agreeable arrangement; but I
found it quite otherwise. It proved to be
very disagreeable to ask for money;—it made
every dollar seem a special favor; it brought up
all kinds of misgivings, as to whether he could
spare it without inconvenience, whether he
really thought my services worth it, and so on.
My employer was a thoroughly upright and
noble man and I was much attached to him.
I do not know that he ever refused or demurred
when I asked for money. The annoyance was
simply in the process of asking, and this be-
came so great that I often underwent serious
inconvenience rather than ask. Finally, at the
year's end, I surprised my friend very much by
saying that I would accept, if necessary, a lower
salary, on condition that it should be paid on
regular days, and as a matter of business. The
wish was at once granted, without the reduc-
tion; and my employer probably never knew
what a relief it was to me.
	Now if a young man is liable to feel this pride
and reluctance towards a mere employer, it is
easy to understand how many women may feel
the same even in regard to a husband. And I
fancy that those who feel it most are often the
most conscientious and high-minded women.
It is unreasonable to say of such persons "Too
sensitive! Too fastidious!" For it is this very
quality of finer sensitiveness which men effect
to prize in a woman and wish to protect at all
hazards. The very fact that a husband is gen-
erous; the very fact that his income is limited;
—these may bring in conscience and gratitude
to increase the restraining influence of pride,
and make the wife less willing to ask money of
such a husband than if he were a rich man or

[Column 2]
a mean one. The only dignified position in
whicha  man can place a wife is to treat her
at least as well as he would treat a housekeeper
and give her the comfort of a perfectly clear
and definite arrangement as to money matters.
She will not then be under the necessity of
nerving herself to solicit from him as a favor,
what she really needs and has a right to spend.
Nor will she be torturing herself on the other
side, with the secret fear lest she has asked too
much, and more than they can really spare. She
will, in short, be in the position of a woman
and a wife, not of a child or a toy.
	I have carefully avoided using the word
"allowance," in what I have said; because the
word seems to imply the untrue and mean as-
sumption that the money is all the husband's,
to give or withhold as he will. Yet I have
heard this sort of talk from men who were liv-
ing on a wife's property or a wife's earnings;
from men such as keepers of boarding houses,
who worked a little while their wives worked
hard,—and from men, such as farmers who
worked hard and made their wives work hard-
er. Even in cases where the wife has no direct
part in the money making, the indirect part she
performs, if she takes faithful charge of her
household, is so essential, so beyond compensa-
tion in money, that it is an utter shame and
impertinance in the husband when he speaks
of "giving" money to his wife as if it were an
act of favor. It is no more an act of favor than
when the business manager of a firm pays out
money to the unseen partner who directs the
indoor business or runs the machinery. Be the
joint income more or less, the wife has a claim
to her honorable share, and that, as a matter of
right, without the daily ignominy of sending
in a petition for it.			T. W. H.


STILL AGREEABLE.

THE "Balance" concludes that enough has
passed between it and the EXPONENT upon
the subject of polygamy. It says:
	"Unless we are tempted beyond what we are
able to bear, by our Mormon friend of the EX-
PONENT, these are the last words we shall have
to say upon polygamy, as we fear we shall tax
the patience of our readers."
	Now, as we have not the least desire to
tempt the "Balance" in any conceivable
manner, to anything unpleasant for itself or
unprofitable to its readers, we will proceed
to answer its questions and remarks, so far
as we consider them in the slightest degree
applicable, or holding any connection with
the subject under discussion, as plainly and
candidly as our abilities will permit. And
then we are as willing that the discussion
should close as we were that it should com-
mence. We are asked:
	“Did Joseph Smith claim that the doctrine
of plurality of wives was revealed to him?
Persons who were with the Mormons at Nau-
voo, have told us that Joseph Smith never
taught the doctrine—that it was first broached
by Brigham Young, and that some of the mem-
bers prophecied trouble when he preached his
first sermon on the subject; and we have al-
ways understood that polygamy was the cause
of the separation of the Jo Smith Mormons
from the Brighamites— at any rate they do
not practice it.”
	The testimonies of hundreds of most re-
liable men, and women also,who were famil-
iar with the life and teachings of the mar-
tyred prophet, Joseph Smith, are given in
connection with his own inspired words,
which have been faithfully recorded, to
prove that the law of Celestial marriage,
embracing plurality of wives, was given by
divine revelation through him.
	We are aware that some persons who were
with him at Nauvoo say he never taught


[Column 1]
the doctrine; while others who had belonged
to the Church, but separated themselves
from it before his death, declare that they
forsook him and the cause they had espoused
because he taught this doctrine. He did
teach and practise polygamy, and it was re-
ceived by many honest hearts through his
teachings.
	The "Balance" next asks if we can tell
"How Joseph Smith came to name the sect
Mormons, or his bible the Book of Mormon?"
	Joseph, himself, under the direction of
his master, Jesus, designated his followers
as "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints." They are generally known as
"Mormons," however, because of their be-
lief in the Book of Mormon—so written
upon the plates from which Joseph transla-
ted the work—the name "Mormon," among
the ancient prophets by whom the plates
were made, and the records they contained
engraven upon them, signifying "More
Good."
	Speaking of marriage for eternity, our
Chicago friend queries thus:
	"Are a majority of our Mormon sisters anx-
ous that their connubial relations should last
throughout eternity? Would not many of
them be glad to look forward to death as a
blessed release?"
	We believe we can safely answer the for-
mer question in the affirmative; a great ma-
jority of the Mormon women prefer being
married by the law of God rather than by
laws of men, which should be sufficient evi-
dence.
	The other question is one which may
quite as appropriately be asked concerning
wives in monogamy. In our experience, we
have seen more unhappiness in monogamic,
than we have ever known in polygamic
families.
	Our friend thinks if we accept the Bible
and its doctrine, the plan of marriage for
time and for all eternity is not allowable.
As Jesus answered to those who asked him
concerning a certain woman who had been
married to seven brothers in succession, "In
heaven they neither marry nor are given in
marriage, but are as the angels of heaven."
This saying, however, is in perfect accord-
ance with the revelations given to the Pro-
phet Joseph, in relation to the marriage cov-
enant. If in heaven, there might be mar-
rying and giving in marriage, there would
be no necessity for the ceremony pronounced
here to reach farther than the extent of
mortal life. But as no such ceremony can
be performed there, it is vastly important
that it be properly attended to before en-
tering that sphere.
	If it might be supposed, that a country
was upon the earth, where it was under-
stood that to marry was not possible—a
country most desirable as a dwelling place,
but from which no person ever could come
back—would it not look absurdly foolish for
a crowd of young people, of both sexes, to
emigrate thither unmarried, or united in
couples by an order which remained good
only till they reached that country? Par-
ticularly after there had been directions
sent by the governor of the country, inform-
ing them of a plan by which they might be-
come true husbands and wives, and remain
so there, as well as in the country they were
leaving. And would not those who observed
the instructions of the governor, if there
were such, appear far more discreet in judg-
ment than those who did otherwise? In
our estimation they would, even if there
were many more very wise and good women
than men—as there certainly is in the world
to-day—and if; in consequence of a com-
mandment from the governor, the few
[Column 2]
worthy men should unite in marriage with
the many worthy women.
	We next find the following little sentence
in the "Balance," which is worthy of no-
tice:
	"Just how the apparent tangles of our earth-
life will be straightened out, we cannot say;
but if we seek to know the truth, and do the
very best we know, not recklessly making these
tangles more complex, God will doubtless help
us unravel them."
	God has indeed, instituted measures by
which all the mistakes and misunderstand-
ings of His children may be rectified. But
they must diligently "seek to know the
truth and do the very best they know."
The great Father has, in His infinite wis-
dom and mercy, devised a plan of salva-
tion, known as the Everlasting Gospel, which
the Latter-day Saints joyfully accept in its
fullness, and by which all those of His chil-
dren, who will listen to, and learn of Him,
may not only be saved, but exalted in his
presence. But he will only teach, and give
them power to act—the labors they must
themselves perform.
	We have a word to say in relation to the
following:
	"A lurking fear has always beset us that there
might possibly be physiological reasons in sup-
port of polygamy, but we are pleased to find a
statement by one who is regarded as a standard
authority by the medical world—Dr. Napheys,
A. M., M. D., member of the Philadelphia
Medical Society and corresponding member of
the Gynaecological Society of Boston, and au-
thor of the "Physical Life of Woman"—that
	The man who has several wives has usu-
ally a weakly offspring, principally males. Na-
ture attempts to check polygamy by reducing
the number of females, and failing in this, by
enervating the whole stock. The Mormons of
Utah would soon sink into a state of Asiatic
effeminancy were they left to themselves."
	Has any person, learned or otherwise, a
right to impose upon a world, whether igno-
rant or intelligent, the vindication of a
thing for truth, which he has not carefully
tested and proven by close observation to be
correct?
	The idea that weakly offspring, either in-
tellectual or physical, is the result of poly-
gamic marriage, is repeatedly confuted by
learned and intelligent people, who come
here and witness for themselves, and com-
pare the results of this system with those
of monogamy. And again, Dr. Napheys
is certainly laboring under a sadly mistaken
opinion when he concludes that the children
of the polygamist are principally males. A
sight of the multitudes of young, blooming
misses who throng the Mormon communi-
ties, should be an evidence to any one, ob-
serving for the truth's sake, or even out of
curiosity, that the statement of that learned
Dr., quoted by the "Balance", is most de-
cidedly erroneous. But if examples were
wanted as a proof of the fallacy of his
words, we need look no farther than into
some of the largest and most prominent
families of Utah, to find illustrations by
which to judge. And the decision could
not be other than that Dr. Napheys had
made a blunder, and that those trusting his
assertions as being correct, were deceived.
	And now we come to an article headed
"An Ally." in which the "Balance" repub-
lishes the "New North West's" article on
polygamy, to which we referred some time
since. We were led to presume that our
replies to Mrs. Duniway were satisfactory
to herself, as she has not touched the subject
again, to our knowledge. But the "Balance"
makes a mistake in one instance, which we
would hardly feel justified in passing with-
out correction. It gives one of our answers
to Mrs. D. in altogether a wrong sense, mak-
ing, in reality no sense at all of it; and
[Column 3]
leaving our explanation to the question quo-
ted, which we gave in the subsequent num-
ber, unnoticed. It says:
	"In answer to Mrs. D.'s question "Why
religious revelations always come to men,"the
EXPONENT asks, "Why when Laban gave Ra-
chel to Jacob, he did not provide another hus-
band for Leah."
	Our question here quoted, was offered as
an argument in part, against the absurd no-
tion advanced by the "New North West,"
that if it was right for a man to have more
wives than one, it was also right, and as
reasonable for a woman to have more than
one husband. While in answer to Mrs. D.'s
question. "Why religious revelations always
come to men," we gave a very different an-
swer, which appeared in number 9 of the
present volume of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FROM DIXIE.
	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Nov. 25th, 1873.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Our warm sunshine and balmy air are
delightful luxuries, after returning from the
busy North, with its rain, snow and pinch-
ing frost. And we appreciate them all the
more, since our late return to dear, sunny
Dixie, where the fragrant flowers are still
blooming, the hum of the bee is heard dai-
ly, and the joyous, ringing laughter of the
merry-making children is echoed from the
hillsides, as rosy and barefooted, they scram-
ble about in search of new pleasures and
varied amusements. There are, however,
now, some four or five schools in our city,
which captivate most of the big "little ones,"
and make things more quiet, except at re-
cess and noonings. Our men folks are mak-
ing many improvements here this year, and
the music of saw, hammer and plane echoes
daily around us.
	We have still in bloom many hardy and
late-blooming plants, such as petunias, phlox,
marigolds, verbenas, Chinese chrysanthe-
mums, antirrhinums, &c., which usually
continue to bloom until Christmas. Al-
though the taste for flowers is improving,
we often wonder that so many deny them-
selves the pleasure of so cheap a luxury, and
one so easily attained. A few pots, or
little boxes, a sunny place in a window; a
trifle or nothing for the plants, common va-
rieties of which, any florist or gardner will
freely give those who ask; and one may have
flowers, and the green verdure of plants each
day through the winter: then in spring they
may be planted around the door for renewal.
"A thing of beauty" and "A joy forever."
To have these floral companions is a light
labor of love, and lovers of flowers may stu-
dy their own tastes, and have the varieties
they most fancy; for if out of season for the
plants, seed of quick blooming plants may
be sown whose flowers may soon adorn their
parlors, kitchens and boudoirs.
	We always doubt the gentleness and re-
finement of any woman, old or young, lady
or housemaid, who does not exhibit a taste
and love for flowers: we sincerely pity chil-
dren, who are raised without the daily in-
spiration of these heaven-sent blessings—
the smiling flowers.				FLORA.


Susan B. Anthony and Olympia Brown
are announced as speakers at the Annual
Convention of the Connecticut Woman suf-
frage Association, at New Haven.
	Mrs. Ellen S. Tupper of Des Moines,
Iowa, has assumed the charge of the "Na-
tional Bee Journal," as editor and proprie-
tor.
	The women of Rochester, New York, pay
taxes on seven millions of dollars.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent
	A MOTHER'S MISSION.

I have stood within the ballroom,
	Listening to the music's flow,
When my heart was gaily beating,
	And my cheeks were all aglow:
Then I thought that I was happy,
	As I joined the merry throng,
While with dance and pleasant pastime
	Sped the evening hours along.

But I since have felt a pleasure,
	Purer than the ballroom's joy,
When I gazed upon the features
	Of my first-born baby boy;
And I felt my husband's kisses
	Lightly pressed upon my brow,
Heard him whisper, "Oh my darling,
	We're a happy household now!"

Many years have come and vanished
	Bringing sons and daughters too;
Teaching me, a mother's mission
	Is to love, to hope, to do!
Love will make her duties easier,
	Hope, her future pathway bright,
And 'tis doing checks each evil,
	Guides the youthful soul aright!
					LAURA M. MINER.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	FROSTED FEET may be cured as follows:
White oak bark, taken fresh and boiled in
water to a strong liquor. Bathe the feet in
the liquor. It is pronounced the best of all
remedies. 
	FURNITURE OIL.—Mix half a pint of olive
oil with one pound of soft soap. Boil them
well and apply the mixture to your oiled
furniture with a piece of dry cotton wool.
Polish with a soft dry flannel.
	CHILDREN, and all persons attending
school, should take all the sleep they can get
and should never be waked up in the morning
after having gone to bed at a regular hour.
Every humane parent will make it a reli-
gious duty to arrange that every child shall
go to bed in an affectionate, loving and glad
spirit.
	QUAKER PLUM PUDDING.—Take slices of
light bread, spread them with butter and
lay them in a pudding-dish, with alternate
layers of raisins, until within an inch of the
top. Five eggs are then beaten with a
quart of milk, and poured over the pudding;
salt and spice to taste. I bake it twenty to
twenty-five minutes, and eat with liquid
sauce. The raisins should be boiled in a
little water before using, and the water and
raisins put on the pudding.
	CHILDREN.—Children can do a great deal
more than they are usually supposed to be
capable of. It doesn't weary a child to set
the table any more than it does to roll a
hoop, and at six years of age a boy or girl
can be made responsible for this task. Boys
can learn housework just as well as girls.
We know a boy of twelve who makes ex-
elent bread, compounds cake of faultless fla-
vor, and frosts it, washes dishes quickly and
clean, sweeps, makes beds, milks the cow,
feeds the chickens, takes care of the baby,
helps regularly about the washing and iron-
ing and holds his own in all respects with
any boy of his age. He is no prodigy, he is
only the result of judicial training. We
know a girl of 14, modest, pleasing, entirely
feminine, who takes care of the horse and
cow, washes the buggy when necessary, drives
the double team to market when the hired
man can't be spared, weeds in the garden,
rakes in the meadow like Maud Muller, and
is altogether feminine, though from neces-
sity she does the work of a boy.
	SALT-RISING BREAD.—To one pint of

[Column 2]
boiling water add 1/4 teaspoonful salt, 1/4 tea-
spoonful soda, one tablespoonful sugar, (brown
is best); when cool enough to bear the fin-
ger in it, thicken with flour to the consis-
tency of jelly cake; put into a vessel of
warm water, and keep it just as warm as
the batter will bear without cooking it. It
will rise about the middle of the day, if
started about six in the morning; this, with
water added, will make two small loaves.
	BAKED FRESH FISH.—Bake like meat in
a pan, with salt and a little water, and when
partly cooked, pour over it half or a whole
cup of cream, according to the quantity of
fish. It will bake in about an hour, and a
thickened gravy should be made in the pan,
after the fish is taken up. Cut halibut in
thick slices, but other kinds like haddock,
shad, etc., are best baked whole, and may
be stuffed if desired. This is a nice way of
cooking, if one cannot eat fried fish, as it
preserves the flavor much better than boil-
ing. 
	MEDICAL VALUE OF ASPARAGUS.—A
Medical correspondent of an English journal
says thatthe advantages of asparagus are not
sufficiently appreciated by those who suffer
with rheumatism and gout. Slight cases of
rheumatism are cured in a few days by feed-
ing on this delicious esculent; and more
chronic cases are much relieved, especially
if the patient avoids all acids, whether in
food or beverage. The Jerusalem artichoke
has also a similar effect in relieving rheu-
matism. The heads may be eaten in he
usual way, but tea made from the leaves of
the stalk, and drank three or four times a
day, is a certain remedy, though nor equal-
ly agreeable.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN REMOVING its composition and press
work from the office of the "Salt Lake Her-
ald," the EXPONENT, in simple honesty,
owes and extends many and sincere thanks
for the kind treatment it has there received;
for courteous encouragement and assistance
offered when most needed, and the good
feelings always, and still manifested in its
behalf. We might particularize, but feel-
ing that our gentlemanly friends would pre-
fer that we make no such demonstrations,
we forbear to mention, though we do not
forget any favor which has been so kindly
extended.
	OUR KIND readers will, we trust, accept
our apology for the lack of punctuality at-
tending our present issue, when they learn
that the delay has been unavoidable. The
printing of the EXPONENT, which has hith-
erto been done at the "Salt Lake Herald"
office, has, since the last issue, been transfer-
red to the office of the "Deseret News,"
where the type setting will, hereafter, be
done by Young Ladies. And as the present
issue is a specimen of their work in that
line, our readers will be able to jndge if they
will likely be satisfied with the change
which has taken place. The making ar-
rangements for, and completion of this
change, has taken up so much time that our
first of December number reaches our pat-
rons at a late date—an occurrence which we
very much regret and truly hope will not
again transpire.
	THE "JUVENILE Instructor" is to be en-
larged to twelve pages, and is to be publish-
ed without additional charge. Parents
wishing to make their little ones handsome
Christmas or New Year's presents, can do no
better than to give them two dollars to sub-
scribe for this valuable little work.


ONE of the most enjoyable occasions we
have witnessed this season, was an "append-
age" to a Birthday Party, recently given by
Mrs. M. I. Horne, The guests comprised
most of the leading ladies of this city, and
instead of careless jesting and light conver-
sation, which are so common at social gath-
erings, the afternoon and evening were spent
in a sort of intellectual,blessing and prayer
meeting. Among the Birthday presents
sent in, was a finely expressive, original
poem, written by one of the worthy lady's
sons, who is now a resident of Beaver City.


THE PIUTE QUEEN,—The far West boasts
of a modern Pocahontas, in the person of
Sarah Winnemucca, the daughter of the
chief of the Piutes, which Indian tribe do
her homage, as monarchial nations do their
queens and kings. She is said to have ac-
quired some education, reads English, writes
poetry, wears the dress of civilized femi-
ninity, and is reported friendly to the
whites.

	STORMS.—A smooth sea never made a skill-
ful mariner, neither do uninterrupted pros-
perity and success qualify for usefulness and
happiness. The storms of adversity, like
those of the ocean, rouse the faculties and
fortitude of the voyager. The martyrs of
the ancient times, in bracing their minds
to outward calamities, acquired a loftiness of
purpose and moral heroism worth a lifetime
of softness and security.
	A fond father in Rochester, says The
"Courier," had suspected his daughter of
having stolen moonlight walks with a lover
whom he had refused her seeing, and, in
coming home the other night at a late hour,
thought he saw his daughter's arm linked
in with the hated lover's. The indignant
father took the young man by the collar, and
was giving him a good shaking, when he
found he had hold of the wrong man, and 
soon learned that the parties were a highly
respectable married couple, who were com-
ing home from prayer meeting.

	At the students' annual debate at Re-
gent's Park College, England, March 25th,
many prominent Baptists were present and
took part in the discussion of the question,
Ought women to preach? A young lady
closed the discussion in an eloquent speech
—and the question was decided in the af-
firmative.

	WHEN AND HOW TO SING.—A writer on
the preservation of the voice says, the most
important things to be observed are the con-
ditions of the body when singing, and the
manner of singing. Never sing when in-
disposed, particularly in the organs of the
voice; never sing immediately after run-
ning fast, or after riding, lifting, or similar
bodily exertion; when the voice is not at
command, is wavering, incorrect, or panting,
which may have very bad consequences
withal. Never sing immediately before or
after meals, for it hurts both the health and
voice together. Never talk or sing too long;
it will raise an irritation, a burning, a prick-
ling in the throat or chest, which are always
signs of the approach of indisposition. Du-
ring singing stand free and easy, and do not
hold anything before the mouth which
might prevent the free flow of the breath,
and thus weaken the chest and deaden the
tone. The chest must always be held freely
erect, that the lungs may expand, strength-
ening the breath and giving more ease to
the song. Never, or at least very seldom
touch the extreme limits of your power of
voice. Frequent repitition of this over-
singing might produce a sudden and entire


loss of voice. Do not sing in a place either
too cold or too warm, so as to lose the proper
proportion of warmth between the breath
inhaled and exhaled. A singer must be
more moderate than anybody else in eating
and drinking, for the sake of the preserva-
tion of his voice: and this precious treasure
is well worth such a privation. This is
particularly applicable to tenor, soprano and
alto voices; the base is not so delicate.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
			AN APPEAL.

To the People of the Territory of Utah, con-
	cerning a Petition to the next Legislature to
	pass a law providing for a better organization
	and supervision of our Public Schools.
	FELLOW CITIZENS: The undersigned
Commitee appointed at the last session of 
the Territorial Teacher's Association, begs
leave to call your attention to the subjoined
Petition to our next Legislature. The Teach-
ers of the Territory would be lacking a due
appreciation of their duties, if they neglected
to assume the initiative in this matter, inas-
much as the people have a right to expect, 
that they, to whom are intrusted in a great
measure the educational interests of the
Territory, will attend to the proper develop-
ment of this department under the sanction
of the people. We therefore ask the signa-
ture of every citizen throughout the Terri-
tory, who wishes our educational affairs to 
be raised to a status adequate to the spirit,
interest and destiny of our people.
		COMMITTEE ON PETITIONS.
KARL G. MAESER, Chairman.

To the Honorable, the Legisltaive Assembly of
	the Territory of Utah.
	WHEREAS, Your petitioners, realizing the
inefficiency of the condition of our educational
affairs, although fully aware that the circum-
stances of the people of this Territory, for
the time past, scarcely enabled them to do 
more than they have done towards school-
ing the rising generation, and,
	WHEREAS our rapidly increasing popula-
tion finds itself placed in new conditions,
which demand not only particular talent and
ability, but make the general education of
the masses a matter of the utmost necessity:
	THEREFORE, we ask your Honorable body
to pass, during the present session of the
Legislature, a school Law, which, taking
into consideration the circumstances and
financial abilities of the people, shall meet
their just expectation, by securing to them
a more efficient organization and supervision 
of the public schools of our Territory.

			A CARD.

	To the People of Utah Territory

	The Territorial Teachers' Association, at
its last session, appointed a committe for the
purpose of drafting a petition to our Legis-
lature for the passage of a school law which
might secure to the citizens of the Territory
a better organization and supervision of our
common schools, the inefficiency of the
present system having become obvious to 
everybody. The committee appointed for the
above-named purpose is now about to circu-
late this petition among the people, and
has prefixed an appeal to all citizens
throughout the Territory to give weight and
countenance to this petition by their signa-
tures. Inasmuch as many inquiries have
been made concerning the nature of our
propositions, this public explanation has
been deemed necessary.
	The Territorial Teachers' Association fore-
seeing this appointed, during its last spring
session, a committee for the purpose of draft-

[Column 2]
ing a bill for a school law, to be presented to 
our Legislature. This committee has acom-
plished its task by drafting a bill providing
for all the details of a perfect school organi-
zation and supervision throughout the Ter-
ritory, with due consideration of the cir-
cumstances of our people. It is impossible,
in the limited space of this card, to give
more than a few of the leading ideas of this
bill, for the information of the citizens.
	The whole Territory is to be organized
into three school districts, corresponding
with the already existing judicial districts.
For each of these districts the legislature
is to elect two members, which six members,
with three others at large, similarly elected,
are to constitute a Board of Education.
This Board is to have control of all educa-
tional matters, not otherwise provided for.
It is to elect a Territorial superintendent,
who shall be its executive officer, and who
shall devote his entire time to his duties.
His salary is to be fixed by the Board. The
members of the Board are to receive no
salary.
	Each county constitutes a county school
district, controlled by a board of five trus-
tees, elected by the people; it elects a county
superintendent, nominated by the Territo-
rial Superintendent, who also has to devote 
his whole time to his duties. It has to sub-
divide the county district into subschool
districts, and nominate, for each subdistrict, 
a local director as agent for the board.
	There are also independent school dis-
tricts, consisting of all towns and cities of
5.000, or more, inhabitants; they are par-
allel to the county school districts.
	The Territorial Board of Education elects
a board of examination for the Territory,
and the county boards for their respective
counties.
	Provisions are made for the establishment
of a Normal School; for building of school
houses; for obtaining school furniture; for
rates of tuition; for teacher's salaries; for
the education of poor children; for methods
of instruction; for teachers' institutes; etc.
	It provides for the Territorial school funds
by claiming one-half of the liquor tax, all 
fines for drunkenness and disorder, the pro-
fits from sales of estrays, the revenue from
corporations for valuable franchises allowed
them, all property that shall escheat to the
Territory, and one mill of all taxable pro-
perty throughout the Territory. This to go
for the salaries of the officers, and current
incidental expenses; and the remainder to
be appointed to the subdistricts.
	The county funds shall consist of one-
fourth of one per cent. of the taxable pro-
perty, out of which to pay the county school
superintendent, the remainder to be appor-
tioned to the subdistricts of the respective
county school districts, for the purpose of
repairing schoolhouses, and for fuel and
other contingent expenses.
	Each subdistrict can assess itself, by a two-
third vote, not to exceed 3 per cent., for the
purpose of erecting school houses.
	These are some of the leading ideas of the
proposed bill, and our fellow-citizens can
easily perceive from them the spirit and
purport of the whole.
	The Territorial Teachers' Association thus
places its labors before the people, feeling
confident of having done its duty, and
leaves the result to the guidance of an over-
ing Providence.
	In behalf of the Territorial Teachers' Asso-
ciation.				KARL G. MAESER:


Miss Virginia Vaughan, the authoress,
has made her debut as an actress in New
York.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	A little girl was asked what was the meaning
of the word happy. She gave a pretty answer,
saying, "It is to feel as if you wanted to give
all your things to your little sister."
	Freedom’s indeed not doing as we like, not
everybody followiug his or her own way (even
if that were possible), but "self-control." Self-
control, plus a control or command of our sub-
ject, gives "freedom," but a person who has no
control over any subject, or right use of any
faculties, cannot have freedom.—Miss Nighin-
gale.
	Girls who are properly educated, who are
early taught the lessons of self-reliance, who
have placed before them a high standard of ex-
cellence to attain, will never stoop to be mere
dolls for the display of the latest fashions, the
butterflies of life, gaudy but worthless, but will
become sober, earnest women, who are fitted
to work out the high mission intrusted to them.
	God bless the cheerful people!—man, woman,
or child, old or young, illiterate or educated,
handsome or homely. Over and above every
other social trait, stands cheerfulness. What
the sun is to nature, what God is to the stricken
heart that knows how to lean upon Him, are
cheerful persons in the house and by the way-
side. They go unobtrusively' unconsciously,
about their silent mission, brightening up society
around them. We love to sit near them; the
expression of their eye, the tone of their voice
is an inspiration.
	Training Girls.—Training girls for house-
hold duties ought to be considered as necessary
as instruction in reading, writing and arith-
metic, and quite as universal. We are in our
houses more than half of our existence, and it
is the household surroundings which affect most
largely the happiness or misery of domestic
life. If the wife knows how to “keep house,”
if she understands how to "set a table," if she
has learned how things ought to be cooked, how
beds should be made, how carpets should be
swept, how the furniture should be dusted, how
the clothing should be repaired, and turned,
and altered, and renovated; if she knows how
purchases can be made to the best advantage,
and understands the laying in of provisions,
how to make them go farthest and last longest;
if she appreciates the importance of system,
order, tidiness, and the quiet management of
children and servants, then she knows how to
make a little heaven of home; how to win her
children from the street; how to keep her hus-
band from the club-house, the gaming-table
and the wine-cup. Such a family will be train-
ed to social respectability, to business success,
and to eficiency and usefulness in whatever
position may be allotted to them.
	It may be safe to say, that not one girl in ten
in our large towns and cities enters married
life, who has learned to bake a loaf of bread, to
purchase a roast, to dust a painting, to sweep a
carpet, or to cut, and fit, and make her own
dress. How much the perfect knowledge of
these things bears upon the thrift, the comfort,
and the health of families, may be conjectured,
but not calculated by figures. It would be an
immeasurable advantage to make a beginning
by attaching a kitchen to every girls' school in
the nation, and have lessons given daily in the
preparation of all the ordinary articles of food
and drink for the table, and how to purchase
them in the market to the best advantage, with
the result of a large saving of money, an in-
crease of comfort, and higher health in every
family in the land.—Hall's Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	DRESS FOR FARMERS' WIVES.

MRS. S. B. BRUCE has recently read a paper
before the Washington Grange of Patrons
of Husbandry from which we make the fol-
lowing extracts:—I have prepared a few
suggestions conveying my own peculiar
ideas, hoping that you will bear with me
when I have a woman’s work to do, and my
time is pretty much occupied about my own
household affairs. In the first place, let us
dress within our means, and for comfort and
convenience, instead of fashion. First in
order let us dress the head. God in his
infinite wisdom covered the head with hair,
and the good book says that long hair is an
ornament to a woman, and since God’s works
are perfect and no work of art can compare
with his, let us then arrange our natural hair
in a tasty manner, and not let fashion load
our heads with hemp or borrowed hair.
Then the covering for the head; of what
real account is the present style, except for
ornament. Our husbands and brothers wear
a hat that protects their heads and faces
from the hot rays of the sun in summer, and
in winter a fur cap or hat which is both warm
and comfortable to shield them from the cold
blasts, while we place upon our heads a cu-
pola, erroneously called a bonnet or hat, held
in position by guy ropes and stays, and if
we wish for comfort we must carry a para-
sol to protect our heads from the scorching
rays of the sun in summer, and in winter,
over this cupola, wrap some extra fixings to
keep out the cold, which is neither handy
nor convenient, especially when the team is
waiting for us. Oh for the good, old-fash-
ioned days when a bonnet was made to cov-
er the head, light and cool for summer, and
warm and comfortable for winter. I could
hardly adopt the quaker styles, yet I think
they are far preferable to the fashions of the
present day. Perhaps a medium between
the two would suit my taste.
	And our dress, of whatever fabric it may
be composed, let it be made in a becoming
style, easy fitting and convenient, and not
counterfeit deformity by carrying a pack
upon our backs to the inconvenience of our-
selves, and to the utter disgust of all sensible
men and women. Deformities will come to
us fast enough at best; let us, then not tempt
our Maker by ridiculously attiring ourselves,
lest He in his vengence may deal with us
or our offsprings. If we had been born thus
deformed, Oh, what a pity it would have
been! then why do it for fashion’s sake?
And then again, how much more convenient
it would be, if, when a dress is made, it
would stay made and look well until it is
worn out, and how much it would lessen our
labors. And then how much good could be
done with the time and means now spent
in useless display. My tastes are plain and
simple. I consider such an over-loaded,
puffed out concern as you see at the present
time for a dress, not only ridiculous but
vulgar.
	The question arises, What are you to do
with the girls? they want to dress in style
or as others do. I will answer, as the twig
is bent so the tree inclines.
	And our under dress, let it be sufficiently
warm, as many of the aches and pains that
we have can be traced to insufficient cloth-
ing. Let our shoes be such as will keep our
feet dry and warm, as our health depends
much upon this point. I would recommend
a thick woolen stocking for winter, and cot-
ton only for summer wear. And, finally, let
our whole apparel be for comfort and con-
venience. Let there be a variety in our
wardrobe, for variety is the spice of life.
	These views I would recommend for the
following reasons;—First, It would lessen

[Column 2]
the burden of many who now find it hard
to maintain their place in society. It would
lessen the force of temptations which often
lead men to barter honesty and honor for
display. If there was less strife in dress, it
would enable people in moderate circum-
stances to go more into society. It would
enable all classes to attend church. It would
save valuable time. It would relieve our
means from a serious pressure, and thus
enable us to do more for good enterprises.
						     R. N. Y.


PROVO.

	WE congratulate you on being linked by
iron rail with the jarring, traveling, trading
world. We had our reporter's pencil all
sharpened to pay tribute to Directors and
General Officials of the road, as well as Con-
ductors, &c. But as
		NOTE OF INVITATION
failed to reach reporter, she says she knows
nothing about the courteous manners, effi-
cient labors or eloquent speeches that she
had on the end of her pencil, before her fond
hopes of being invited to participate in your
late celebration were blighted.
			REPORTER
thinks EXPONENT ought to pronounce said
officials or semi-officials, or whoever engin-
eered the occasion, ungallant and impolite.
It is
			GRATIFYING
to note that when we have a spare V we can
come to your newly linked city, greet friends,
sponge our dinner and return home to the 
evening meal.
			TIMES CHANGE,
so do modes of conveyance and modes of
thought, and in the "good time coming"
EXPONENT'S reporters will have no occasion
to complain of slights offered to the paper
they represent.
				ALTA.
	Alta City was thrown into consternation
Sunday evening by the cry of fire, which
was found bursting from a board building a
block to the right of Main street; the flames
rapidly devoured the building and its con-
tents. As soon as the fire had abated a little
search was made, and two human bodies
found under circumstances that led to the
supposition of murder, and fire to consum-
mate the
TERRIBLE DEAH OF A FALLEN MAN AND
			WOMAN,
Captain Hart and Madam Miller. We reflect
a moment on the sad tragedy, and mentally
ask, Who was Captain Hart? He was, in all
probability, some fond mother's son, whose
relatives and personal friends mourn his loss
and deplore his untimely and criminal death.
Who was Madam Miller? Sad to write, she
was a fallen, degraded, besotted woman,
whose early life was one of purity, beauty
and promise. Her version of the reason of
her accepting a life of degradation was, that
in her early married life, her husband made
her the subject of unjust jealousy. We
cannot admit that any cause could furnish
justification for her lamentable career.
	COTTONWOOD KANYON
has been scourged with characters of the
above class, until a scourge seems to be visi-
ble in the atmosphere. If nought but the
devouring element of fire can cleanse Alta,
let the ashes, as far as possible bury the re-
membrance of her past pollutions. We have
			FRIENDS
in Alta and on its surrounding hills, and
we look hopefully for the dispelling of the
cloud and a return of moral and financial
sunshine.					S. M. K.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M.D.
		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
   Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a half
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a m. to 3 p. m. 

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		jel5

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and  
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
	
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.

			NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which  larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$13 00
15 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		    48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-  
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
VOL. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1873.		NO. 14.


REPORTER'S COLUMN.
	MR. AND MRS. FRANK TOWNSEND
left the city on Wednesday, to visit familiar
scenes in St. George; while they drink wine
with cherished friends there, we miss them
at home.
	WE ARE IN RECEIPT OF FAVORS
from R. T. Burton, London, R. Mudge, San
Francisco, and E. Hoffman, San Leandro.
		AND ACKNOWLEDGE	
documentary indebtedness to our Prove cor-
respondents, M. and L. They may look for 
reposnse in the EXPONENT.
	WM. B. FAHNSTOCK, M. D.,
in a treatise on Artificial Somnambulism,
claims that it requires ten different functions
to constitute a faculty of the brain, viz.
Conciousness, Attention, Perception, Mem-
ory, Association, Likes, Dislikes, Judgment,
Imagination, and the Will.
	AN ENJOYABLE CHOIR PARTY
was given in the 15th Ward Hall, on Friday
evening, December 12th, a commendable
feature of which was, that it closed at 12
o'clock.
			WHILE
we bespeak for our friends and patrons a
merry, merry Christmas,
	SANTA CLAUS'S COMPLIMENTS;
the rolling wheels of time bring again the
season specially dedicated to festivity, and
kindest expressions of sentiment, and good
wishes. After providing good cheer for the
least favored in the community, we naturally
desire to make our immediate family, and
kindred, and personal friends feel the
warmth of genial sun-shine that fills our
hearts, and as worldly gifts are always an ac-
ceptable medium of expression, we reflect
upon what will please this one, what will
become that one, and what will fit the other.
Then the money question comes up, and we
wish the J. Cookes, & Co. had all been
honest, and let the currency of the country
do its legitimate work—pay for honest labor.
Then so many more little socks could have
been filled, and so many more hearts made
glad.
	Many a corner that was devoted last year
to the family Christmas Tree, must this year
be vacant; many tables that (figuratively,)
groaned under the weight of luxuries last
Christmas, will stand, neglected by the wall
on the forth-coming gala-day. And why is
it so, while there is as much money in the
country, and just as many good things as
formerly? It is because of dishonesty and
bad management, together with a lack of
financial ability in our country's representa-
tives. Sad realities for a proud, experi-
mental government to present to an approach-
ing Centennial. Shade the picture. And
heed the lesson—that is easier to practice
honesty and voluntary retrenchment, than
to be compelled to eat the fruits of dishon-
esty and to practice compulsory retrench-
ment.
		BRING DOWN THE PRICE.
	Sewing machine monopoly has reached
[Column 2]
the dimensions of a swindle. Our readers
may not all know that sewing machine man-
ufacturers have become immensely wealthy
on their immense profits; and to increase
their wealth-power, they are in league to
maintain the established extortionate prices.
The average cost of machines at the various
manufacturies is estimated at $13, 16.
Agents bring these machines to us for from
$80 to $125,00.  Our sewing machines
should not cost us more than $25,to $35.
While we celebrate the centennial of the
soaking of the tea in Boston Harbor, let us re-
solve to let agents pay storage on machines
until they or their employers bring down
the price.					S. M. K.


THE SEX.

	THEODOSIA BROWN of Whitehall, weighs
400 pounds, and lives on a daily allowance
of one egg and one prune.
	MISS ANNIE Lippincott, a daughter of
"Grace Greenwood," lately made her debut
on the lyric stage at Dowagiac, Mich.
	HAVING NO children, Laura Keene reared
and bore the educational expenses of her
two nieces, and made them her heirs.
	GIRTON COLLEGE at Cambridge, England,
a new institution, founded to promote the
higher education of women, is now open.
	MISS ELIZABETH Ball, a Dublin lady, who
died a few days ago, has bequeathed £6,200
for founding a church and several Protestant
charities.
	MRS. SARAH J. Hale, the editor of Gody's
Lady's Book, is 85 years old and is still vig-
orous in body and mind. She has been a
widow since 1822.
	ATTORNEY-GENERAL William's wife pro-
poses to the ladies of the Cabinet that no
refreshments shall be provided at their en-
tertainments this winter, and that the mon-
ey they would cost be given to the poor.
	MISS EFFie Moore, a great-granddaugh-
ter of the widow of Ethan Allen, is the
leader of scholarship and deportment of the
last freshman class in the University of Ver-
mont and State Agricultural College at Bur-
lington.
	A NEWSPAPER managed by women, has
been established at Pueblo, Mexico, and a
Catholic priest who has recently married, is
contributing to it a series of articles against
the celibacy of the clergy.
	MDLLE. BELOCCA the new prima dona at
the Italian Opera, Paris, is a young Russian
lady, who enters the theatre with a decided
vocation for the stage. She belongs to a
family of high consideration, enjoying an
income of over 100,000fr. a year, and her
father is one of the most distinguished
savants in the empire.
	MISS SARAH E. Fuller has received an
award of merit for wood engraving from the
Vienna exhibition, a very well deserved
tribute to years of patient skill and effort.
Following this good example our own Gov-
ernment gives her no less substantial encour-
agement in the shape of the contract for
illustrating Prof. Raymond's work on min-
ing.—Golden Age.


NOTICE is given in the "Woman's Jour-
nal," of a woman's tea party, to be held to-
day in Faneuil Hall, to celebrate the one
hundred years that have elapsed since our
brave ancestors threw the tea into Boston
Harbor to prove their determination not to
pay taxes, while they had no representation.
The Women Suffragists will use the occa-
sion to emphasize the fact, that to-day, while
women pay taxes on millions of dollard they
have no representation.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Be frank with the world. Frankness is
the child of honesty and courage. Say what
you mean to do on every occasion, and take
it for granted that you mean to do just what
is right. If a friend asks a favor of you, you
should grant it, if it is reasonable; if it is
not, tell him plainly why you cannot. You
will wrong him and wrong yourself by
equivocation of any kind.

	A printing office has been opened in con-
nection with the Vienna Institute for the
blind. The whole cost of this undertaking
was derfayed by the Imperial Government
Printing Office. Er. Frahkl, the superin-
tendent believes that by special tuition his pu-
pils will be enabled to learn the art of print-
ing, so as to equal in dexterity those not so
afflicted.—The Lithographer.

	TWO ROMEOS— During the celebrated com-
petition, in the year 1749, between Garrick
and Barry, in the character of Romeo, it
was observed by a female critic that, in the
garden scene, Garrick looked with such ani-
mation, and was so spirited in his gestures,
that if she had been Juliet, she should have
thought he was going to jump up to her, but
that Barry was so tender, melting, and per-
suasive that, if she had been Juliet, she
should have jumped down to him.

	What we want is strong-minded and large
natured women who will not be the slave
of dress, or of reform, or of any one idea;
who will understand the philosophy and re-
cognize the beauty and adopt the necessities
of dress without staining its possibilities;
who will neither dwarf nor magnify its im-
portance, but will know how to follow fash-
ion with moderation and discrimination, to
lead it with benificince, and make it in all
things a minister of grace. If the woman
is subordinate to the dress, it is not the
fault of the dress but of the woman.—Gail
Hamilton.

	Sara Coleride, whose memoir has just
been published in London, said a good many
bright and sensible things, but nothing bet-
ter than this of Dr. Chalmers: "O, when 
the wordy doctor does get hold of an argu-
ment, what a sputter he does make with it
for dozens of pages. He is like a child with
a new wax doll; he hugs it, kisses it, holds
it up to be admired, makes its eyes open
and shut, puts on it a pink gown, puts on it
a blue gown, ties on it a yellow sash; then
pretends to take it to task, chatters to it,
shakes it, whips it; tells it not to be so proud
of its fine false ringlets which can all be cut
off in a minute; then takes it into favor
again, and at last, to the releif of all the
company, puts it to bed."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent
	"WOMAN'S SPHERE."
Tell me what is woman's sphere?
What path was she designed to tread?
What may she hope? What must she fear?
What may she do and what must dare
To win her daily dole of bread?

Must she, TO PROVE SHE HAS A SOUL,
Fling gentle attributes away,
And where black war-clouds darkly roll
And death's red banners float, enroll
Her kindred humankind to slay?

Best fitted for the sword or pen
Are woman's slender, stainless hands?
The one devours the life of men;
The other helps him back again
To heaven's bright, celestial lands.

Is woman's mission strife or peace?
Her fittest task to wound or heal?
To rivet fetters or release
Woe's weary victims and increase
Man's power to fight and conquer ill?

Or say you, do I look too high
And ope for her too wide a door?
Must she not turn her longing eye
On anything beneath the sky
Beyond her small domestic lore?

Is she but fit to sweep and sew,
To spread her master's table well,
To go and come, to come and go,
On one unvaried round, and grow
In nothing good if nothing ill?

Has she no mind to cultivate?
No heart for fatherland to glow?
No int'rest in the future fate
Of sons and daughters, that her state
Is almost slavery, vile and low?

With heart and hands with petty cares
So overfull, she cannot gain
That culture which alone prepares
To mold Humanity's sweet heirs
Fit to adorn a lofty plane.

Since on the souls of men her seal
In fadeless characters is set,
Oh let her know, behold and feel
The glorious crown of mortal weal
Her God, upon her brow has set.

In woman's hand her God has placed
His dearest and most sacred care;
With lofty aspirations graced,
While attributes and motives chaste
For her high destiny prepare.

As idle tools will surely rust,
Neglected harps lose perfect tone,
So human powers howe'er august,
When left without improvement just
Dwindle till usefulness is gone.

As plants untended droop and fade,
And weeds choke out most precious seed,
So woman's mind, a desert made
By long suppression, needs the aid
Of cultivation broad and deep.

Her wisdom makes her son more wise,
Her courage makes her daughter brave,
And in the light of her fond eyes
Whose hope, in their bright future lies
Will loftier thoughts their spirits lave.

Let woman,s sphere, then, not be small;
Her powers developed, not confined,
Her intellect, will, body, all
Emancipated from the thrall
Which far too long has round them twined.

Whatever she can well perform,
Whatever she aspires to do,
Whate'er expands, protects from harm
Or gives her life an ample form
Is well, O man, thrice well for you.

When your mind's culture is complete,
Your nature polished and refined,
For mate in life t'is surely meet
You have a soul, not simply sweet,
But strong and noble, heart and mind.

No shadow, charming toy nor slave
Can ever be companion true;
To fit her for her duties grave,
More light and room must woman have—
To walk side by side with you.

Your children thus will nobler be,
Their powers thrice be multiplied,
For turn to history's page and see
The hero's mother; it was she
Who made him worthy of our pride.
							LU DALTON. 
[Column 2]
			R. S. REPORTS
	The Secretary of the Farmington Relief
Society, Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, reports
that the young ladies of that place, under
the supervision of President Mrs. Holmes
have been organized into an association;
with Mrs. Lucy A. Clark as President;
Mrs. Mary E. Robinson, Mrs. Pheobe Peart,
Miss Julia Haight, Miss Elizabeth Cowley,
Miss Emma Holmes, Miss Ellie Rogers
Counselors; and Miss Lousia Stayner and
Miss Minerva Richards, Secretaries. Miss
Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D. Young were
present at the organization, and the report
of our correspondent shows that a very inter-
esting meeting was held.
	On the 27th of November, "Thanksgiving
Day," Miss Eliza R. Snow and a number of
other visitors met with the Relief Society
of the 19th Ward of this city. The meet-
ing was presided over by President Mrs. A.
A. Pratt, who announced that it was held
as their Annual meeting, which was post-
poned in July, on account of her being ab-
sent from the city. One very pleasing point
made in Miss Snow's remarks to the 
assemblage was, that whatever advance-
ments might have been made by the sisters
of the Society since its organization, of
which she was unable to judge, its members
had just occasion to be proud of the marked
improvements which had been made by
their President and Secretary; she was proud
of the progress of her sisters in different
parts of the Territory where she had visit-
ed, and thankful for the interest manifested
in the cause of enlightenment. She was
followed by several other speakers, includ-
ing Bishop Raleigh. In the evening the vis-
itors attended a meeting of the Young La-
dies' Association. Altogether, the ladies of
the 19th Ward considered that "Thanks-
giving Day" had been to them a very pleas-
urable and profitable one.


HOME CORRESPONDENCE.

		Salt Lake City, Dec. 14th 1873.
Mrs. L. Greene Richards—
	Allow me, through Mrs. Adelaide Ridges,
to renew my subscription for your valuable
paper. My husband, who is in England at
present, wished me to be sure and mail the
EXPONENT to him, as there was no paper
printed in Utah that he would miss more
than that. You see your efforts are appre-
ciated by the gentlmen as well as by the
ladies.
	I had an opportunity lately of handing a
volume of your paper to Mrs. Brown of
Omaha; she read them all, and was so much
pleased with them that she told me she
would subscribe for two numbers, one for
herself and one for her sister who resides
in Chicago.
	My attention was forcibly drawn to a little
circumstance that occurred between my
little ones in their play yesterday. My five
year old daughter had carefully broken a
slice of bread and placed it by the side of
a cup of water on their little table; her bro-
ther drank of the water and she exclaimed
—"Did you drink that? that was sacra-
ment! I questioned her and she said they
were playing meeting and they had blessed
the bread and water. "We did not kneel
and bless it as they do at church but we
asked a blessing on it," said she. I asked
her if she knew why they used sacrament.
"Yes," said she, "they eat because they
are hungry and drink because they are thirs-
ty–and we do it because you do." I then 
took the chance offered to explain to her


why those emblems were used, wondering
if older people did not often eat and drink
because others did, without knowing for
themselves why. I think the time has real-
ly come when the young, both boys and
girls should have a knowledge and testimo-
ny for themselves, and not rely on father's
or mother's belief.
	Please accept my very best wishes, for
yourself and every success for your excellent
paper.	Respectfully,		H. C. M.
						19th Ward.


[For the Exponent.
		THE WORD OF WISDOM.

	Are we, as a people, devoting the time
and study we should to our religion, or are
we wasting our precious moments on the
vain things of the world? I fear, in many
instances the latter course is pursued. The
Lord has said, "Let your garments be plain,
and the beauty thereof be the workman-
ship of your own hands." Is not simplicity
pleasing in the sight of God? Did not His
Son set us this pattern while here on earth?
And shall we not be held accountable for the
use we make of the teachings he has so
kindly given in former, as well as in latter
days?
	After we have made all the efforts our fee-
ble powers enable us to make, to carry out
his precepts, shall we be any to well pre-
pared for his coming? Or are we any to
strong to battle with the trials and tempta-
tions which every day beset us?
	There is another item that forces itself
upon my mind; that is, a portion of a dis-
course of President G. A. Smith, delivered
during the late Conference, in which he
urged us to cease using tea and coffee, and,
furthermore, said that we were not to make
it for our guests unless in cases of sickness;
and then we were to offer them herb tea
first. This was right, he said, it was sensi-
ble. And added, that if we did not observe
these things "our glory" would "be clip-
ped!" The Spirit of God bore testimony at
that moment and does at this, that it was
the truth of heaven. Shall the servants of
God lift their warning voices in vain? Is
it not grievous that they should feel oppress-
ed by the weight of our sins, which we do
not, but should feel ourselves? It is a pity
that at this late date, after having passed
through and suffered what we have as a peo-
ple, that we should fall back into the grovel-
ing ways of the world, and lose all we have
been striving for, many of us from ten to
forty years.				M. L. M.
	P. S.—I would suggest that all who have
not done so, read the article called "True
Independence," in No. 10 of the present
volume of the EXPONENT. It is worthy of
being printed in letters of gold.	M.


OF ALL the religionists and moralists who
ever taught, Fenelon is the only one who
has distinctly formulated the duty which a
self-educator owes to himself. "Have pa-
tience with yourself" is a direction often
occuring in his writings, and a most impor-
tant one it is, because patience with our-
selves is essential, if we would have patience
with others. Let us look through the
world. Who are the people easiest to be
pleased, most sunny, most urbane, most tol-
erant? Are they not persons from consti-
tution and temperament on good terms with
themselves—people who do not ask much
of themselves, or try themselves severely,
and who, therefore, are in a good humor
for looking upon others?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column1]
		PROGRESS OF A YEAR.
THE FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECU-
	TIVE COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN WO-
		MAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
	The American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is a representative body, composed of
auxiliary State associations. The main work,
therefore, devolves upon these State socie-
ties, and will be reported in detail by them
this morning.
	The principle work of this Association is
to create auxiliary societies, to stimulate
them to activity, to watch for opportunities
to forward our cause in every State and Ter-
ritory in the Union, and to prevent all hos-
tile legislation, both by the States or by
Congress.
	I am happy to report that during the last
year we have formed two new auxiliary
State societies, one in Maine and one in New
York. In accordance with a vote adopted
at our last annual meeting, we have co-op-
erated with auxiliary State societies in pre-
senting Memorials to the Legislatures of
Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massa-
chusetts, Rhode Island, New York, New
Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Virginia,
South Carolina, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Kansas, California,
Oregon and Nevada.
	In this work Mrs. Tracy Cutler and Mrs.
Margaret V. Longley, gave most effective
and valuable service. We have also corres-
pended with members of Congress, and
worked actively to defeat the effort to merge
Wyoming in Colorado, and to abolish Wo-
man Suffrage in Utah.
	The Judiciary Committee prepared and
carried through the United States Senate a
bill to suppress polygamy in Utah, which
also prohibited women from voting, and
established the English Common Law con-
cerning wives in the form "in which it ex-
isted at the time of the Declaration of In-
dependence." The common law, as con-
strued at that date, gave to every husband
the "custody of his wife's person," the right
to "give her moderate correction," the right
to keep her by constraint, the right to all
her money. It took from the wife every
thing, rights of person, rights of property,
blotted out her legal existence; and left her
with the one right to be maintained. A
right which is accorded to idiots and town
paupers.
	For this enormity Senator Frelinghuysen,
of New Jersey, is especially responsible.
Under the covert expression, "The common
law as it existed at the time of the adoption
of the Declaration of Independence," he
struck a dastardly blow at every right of the
married women of that Territory. The bill
passed the Senate but was defeated in the
House by the active opposition of Mr. Sar-
geant of California, (now senator from that
State) and by other representatives, so the
women of Utah still vote.
	"A Memorial, in behalf of Woman Suffrage,
was presented to the Massachusetts Legis-
lature, signed by Lydia Maria Child, Eliza-
beth Stuart Phelps, Louisa M. Alcott, Abby
W. May and many others; also a Memorial
headed by John M. Forbes, Ingersoll Bow-
ditch, Dr. Samuel G. Howe, Gov. Claflin,
Wm. Boyd Garrison, and a long list of
worthy names. Both were refered to a joint
special committee. Nearly a week's time
was devoted to its discussion, and at each
session the galleries, aisles, and all available
standing space in the House of Representa-
tives were literally crowded with men and
women, eager listeners to the debate. The
vote was taken on the same day, and imme-
diately after the vote for the United States
[Column 2]
Senator, and was lost, 77 Republicans voting
for and 121 against it; 17 Democrats voting
against and 2 for it. This action was taken,
in spite of the square and complete endorse-
ment of Woman Suffrage in the platform of
the Republican party.
	Since it thus appears that men will allow
themselves to accept nominations to the
Legislature, while they feel no moral or hon-
orable obligation to support the platform on
which they were elected, the Massachusetts
Woman Suffrage Society have voted to form
Woman Suffrage Political Clubs, united by
the following pledge:
	"We, the undersigned men and women,
citizens of Massachusetts, of all political
parties, believing that Woman Suffrage is a
vital political issue, do hereby organize our-
selves into a WOMAN SUFFRAGE POLITICAL
CLUB, for the purpose of forwarding the
Movement, morally and politically—by the
systematic circulation of tracts and newspa-
pers, by holding public meetings, and espe-
cially by helping to elect the friends of suf-
frage to the Legislature and to defeat its op-
ponents."
	Two such clubs are already formed, one
in Dorchester and one in Lawrence. Thus
is begun the seed sowing for a new party,
by those who know that God works with
those who work for principle, and that every
law of the universe is on the side of those
who side with justice.
	The Massachusetts society has circulated
a large number of tracts the past year, and
added to its former list three new tracts by
Geo. F. Hoar, T. W. Higginson and Mary
F. Eastman. It is now arranging for a se-
ries of Conventions to be held in most of the
large towns and cities of the State, with a
special view to forming Woman Suffrage
Political Clubs.
	The growth of public sentiment in favor
of the interests of Woman is steady, every
day growing wider in its scope.
	The higher education of Woman was
very ably discussed at the Social Science
meeting in Boston, and the subject was
more widely noticed and considered by the
newspaper press of the country than ever
before. Perhaps the most noticeable fact on
this point is the establishment of the Boston
University on the basis of equal opportuni-
ties for men and women in all its depart-
ments. Four ladies, who passed excellent
examinations, are already members of the
Classical course. Every College or Univer-
sity, which has admitted Woman, reports
good results, and in no instance where they
have ever been admitted have women after-
wards been excluded.
	A convention of Woman ministers was
held in Boston last May, with very satisfac-
tory results. Twenty ladies were present
who had been regularly ordained, most of
them are settled in charge of congregations
and are laboring with much acceptance as
ministers. A Woman's Peace Meeting was
also held, about the same time, giving the
voice and influence of Woman for peace.
Both these meetings were under the special
care of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
	Several ladies are in successful practise of
the law. Mrs. Hapgood Nash is the law
partner of her husband in Maine; Phebe
Couzzins in St. Louis; Miss Hewlett in Illi-
nois, and Mrs. Lockwood in Washington, are
each admitted to the bar as regular practi-
tioners. Four women in Michigan Univer-
sity are in the law department. Dental col-
leges in Philadelphia, Baltimore and Cincin-
nati admit women.
	Women physicians are more numerous ev-
ery year, and are as successful as men. In-
deed, Woman's place in the medical profes-
sion is so well established that efforts are be-
[Column 3]
ingmade to give her access to greater advan-
tages for study, as a matter of necessity.
	Training schools for nurses have been es-
tablished in Boston and New York.
	In New Jersey women have been made
eligible to the office of school trustee, and
several have been elected, while in Massa-
chusetts a large number have been elected
members of the school committees. The
Legislature of New Hampshire voted that
the women of that state were not competent
to vote on school committees. One is not
surprised at this, when we know that the
same Legislature passed a law giving any
married man whose wife had been insane
twelve months, a right to sell her real estate.
The insane married woman, in New Jersey,
whose reason is restored after thirteen
months, returns to find her property confis-
cated and with no power to get it back. Is
it strange that a body of men who could pass
such a law should think that women were
not competent to serve on school commit-
tees?
	Quite a number of women have been
elected County Superintendents of public
instruction in Illinois and Kansas. The law
making women eligible to this and other of-
fices connected with public instruction in
Illinois, was enacted at the instance of Hon.
J. B. Bradwell. The Supreme Court of
Illinois has decided that a wife may con-
tract, sue and be sued, may earn, own and
enjoy property on an equality with her hus-
band.
	The Common Council of St. Louis reject-
ed the petition oi one thousand women of
that city, asking for the repeal of an odious
city ordinance by which houses of prostitu-
tion are licensed,and women subjected, legal-
ly [?] to the grossest indignity. But the
Rev. Geo. Eliot brought suit in the courts,
and obtained a decision declaring the ordi-
nance unconstitutional. It is understood
that those who desire to continue the license
of this sin, will appeal to the Supreme Court.
	The circuit court of the state of New
York decided, in the case of Miss Anthony
and other women, who claimed their right
to vote under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
amendments, that their votes were illegal,
and a fine was imposed on Miss Anthony.
Thus the law holds that to be a crime, when
done by a woman, which is praiseworthy and
right when done by a man.
	"Scribner's Monthly," the "Churchman,"
and other conservative publications have
lately attempted to revive the fading idea
of the ownership of wives by their hus-
bands. But the great Methodist church has
stricken out the word "obey" from its mar-
riage service. and all the Protestant sects,
except the Episcopal, are fast following the
example. And in many of our States, the
past year has witnessed important modifica-
tions of the property laws for wives, all in
the direction of equality in the marriage re-
lation. Nowhere has there been any re-
verse legislation. The High Courts of Hin-
dostan have affirmed the right of a widow
to the independent use of property inherited
from her deceased husband. Everywhere,
spite of Dr. Holland and the "Churchman,"
the tendency is to equality of rights between
husband and wife, and between man and
woman in all the relations of life.
	LUCY STONE.	Chairman Ex. Com.


California, it is stated, pays more Internal
Revenue tax than five of the New England
States together.

	The nomination for the Chief-Justiceship, of
Attorney-General Williams is not popular.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonparcil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1873.


SPLINTERS.

	Mrs. Livermore arraigns "The Hub" city
for spending, last year, $41, 000 for refresh-
ments for the city government while only
$4,000 was paid for soup for the poor......A
young girl, of Peoria, Ill., lately became
hopelessly insane through over study and
anxiety to secure a first prize at school...The
college at Greencastle, Ind., which admits
women, lately received $100,000, donated by
a citizen of that place......The king of Siam
has established two English schools in his
dominions where the sons of his nobles are
to be educated......The three great Moslem
sovereigns, the Sultan of Turkey, Shah of
Persia and Viceroy of Egypt were born in
1830......Nilsson patronized Worth, the Paris
dressmaker......Mrs. H. Pendleton, the au-
thor of "Human Development" is President
of a Woman's Medical College......The late
Mrs. Alfred Gatly, of England, produced a
considerable number of very delicately exe-
cuted and tasteful etchings which were
published in book form......Sir Edwin Land-
seer, the celebrated English artist, was late-
ly buried in St. Paul's Cathedral. A large
number of members and associates of the
Royal Academy, artists, literary men, and
lovers of art attended the obsequies......The
Emperor William of Germany intends to
present a painting of the grand review of
the Prussian troops at Potsdam, to the king
of Italy who was present. The picture is to
be executed by Prof. Menzel......The death
is announced of the celebrated Italian sculpt-
or, Constantino Corti......In Brooklyn, New
York, travel on the horse railways is said to
have greatly diminished...It has lately been
discovered that iron filings are put into tea
as an adulteration, not so much to increase
the weight as to give color to the infusion
......In the southern part of the Russian Em-
pire, a female Savior is said to have appeared,
who claims to be the daughter of God, and
to have come to suffer for the redemption of
her sex, as Christ did for the world.


BE POLITE.

	WE do not see why some of the students
who, as well as the rest, are making great
exertions to acquire knowledge and fit
themselves for high positions in the world,
should be so ignorant of the common rules of
politeness as not to be able to reach their
hands to their hats. 'Tis true, such ceremo-
nies are of the least importance in the edu-
cation of a true gentleman, for the practise
of hat tipping may be acquired by one de-
void of all principle; yet it denotes good
breeding, and as it is a custom so identified
with a courteous gentleman, it affects us dis-
agreeably to receive a stiff nod instead of
the greater exertion acquired by politeness.
	The fact of wearing a gold watch and
the "abandon" of manner affected, does not
point out the gentleman; for the true gen-
tleman can only grow out of true manhood,
whose purity of thought and high princi-
ples dictate the course of action.
	As we are receiving a universal education,
would it not be beneficial to have introduced
a little instruction in the rules laid down by
Chesterfield, whereby we may imitate the
best of our professors?—Ex.		M.


The Royal Academy, England, instead of
holding the usual winter exhibition of pic-
tures by Old Masters, will devote their rooms
to a complete collection of paintings, draw-
ings, sketches, etc., by Sir Edwin Landseer,
combined with a few works of other artists
of the English school.


THE LIVING SOUL.

	As the soul is the man, and the material
body only his house while upon the earth, a
man is never really buried. No human
being since the beginning of the world has
ever yet been buried, no, not even for the
space of a few moments—buried! How
can a living soul be buried? Man is where
his conscious being is—his memory, his love,
his imagination; and since that cannot be
put into the grave, the man is never put
there. So far from being our last home, the
grave is not our home at all, for we are
never laid in it, nor go near it. Happy the
day when all shall learn that corpses are the
departed garments of living men and wo-
men—Temples of God, in which divine ser-
vice is over and finished, the chanting hush-
ed, the isles deserted, and to be contempla-
ed with as little terror as the dilapidated
walls of some ancient, time-worn cathedral.
—Rex.


ANNOTATION.

	In the present issue of the EXPONENT, will
be found a lengthy report of the doings, for the
past year, of the American Woman Suffrage
Association. We give place to it, believing
that it will be perused with interest by our
readers.
	The fact that the women of Utah enjoy, in
many respects, more freedom than is granted to
women in other parts of the world, does not
give to the intelligent ones among them any
disposition to boast of the advantages they
hold over the less favored of their sex. But
rather creates within them a sympathetic de-
sire to see all others possess as many valuable
privileges and blessings as are enjoyed by them-
selves. We would also have it understood that
the women of Utah are not unappreciative nor
ungrateful for the interest which was mani-
fested in their behalf by the American Woman
Suffrage Association, in its active efforts to de-
feat the Frelinghuysen bill, which was intended
to deprive them of the right of suffrage. Al-
though the action on the part of the Associa-
tion was made in the common cause of women
throughout the Union, yet its immediate bene-
fits were none the less realized by the ladies of
this Territory in the maintaining of their right
to the elective franchise. We consider the ac-
tion displayed a liberal and unsectarian spirit,
strangely in contrast to many who would either
manifest indifference, or, what is still worse,
take active part in seeking to deprive their fel-
low citizens, by unjust legislation, of their con-
stitutional rights.
	In concluding we offer, in behalf of those inter-
ested, our cordial acknowledgments, both, to
all the ladies who so truly befriends the wo-
men of Utah, and also to Senator Sargent for
his able opposition to the gross wrong intend-
ed.


ANNIVERSARY OF THE BIRTHDAY
  OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH.

	Tuesday, the 23rd instant, will be the 67th
anniversary of the birthday of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, first President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. On the
evening of that day a Social Party, under the
supervision of Mrs. E, Davis, will be given in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms in this city, in
commemoration of the day. Dancing will be
interspersed with appropriate songs and short
speeches from some of the senior Elders of the
church, who were associated with the Prophet
during his life. The proceeds of the party will
be devoted to the interests of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.


ACKNOWLEDGMENT.

	In a large assembly of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association, on the
6th of December, 1873, the following resolu-
tions were read and unanimously adopted:

	Resolved, That inasmuch as Mrs. Lambert
(late Miss Mary A. Jenkins,) has cheerfully,
faithfully and efficiently discharged her duties
as Secretary of this Association, we deem this
acknowledgment due as a just tribute to un-
assuming merit.
	Resolved, That while we manifest our appre-
ciation of her services, which were only with-
drawn on her departure with her husband on a
mission to the Sandwich Islands, we also ex-
press our commendation of this young lady's
amiable deportment, which has been in every
respect exemplary, irreproachable and worthy
of imitation.
	Resolved, That we unite our faith and
prayers in behalf of this, our young sister, her
husband and all with whom they are associ-
ated as missionaries.

	On motion it was decided that the foregoing
resolutions be published in WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT and a copy forwarded to the Islands.
	MRS. M. I. HORNE, President,
				MISS ANNA SMITH, Secretary.


EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT.

	Improvements in the arrangements  of
schools, methods of teaching, and in the choice
of teachers, are taking a decided and pleasing
prominence in the grand march of progress, in
this Territory as well as in other portions of
the world. No changes which are marking the
present era of time, can be of a more satis-
factory nature, and none could be more neces-
sary.
	In time past, it has been with the teachers
of youth here, too much as with the clergy
abroad. Parents have thought that their chil-
dren must go to school, no matter what sort of
a school was taught; neighborhoods have con-
sidered that schools of some kind must be es-
tablished within their precincts, even if they
had to pay high prices to persons totally unfit
to fill the positions of teachers. Just as men
having no ability for accomplishing anything,
have been installed in the pulpit, in different
parts of the world, as teachers, of the gospel.
	Often, in consequence of a want of educa-
tion and reflection, parents and guardians have
thought that one would do very well as a tutor
and overseer of little children, if he were so un-
fortunate as not to be naturally gifted with a
common portion of good sense, or even though
his moral character might be questionable.
	Utah however, as probably many other por-
tions of country when newly populated, until


late years has been in a great measure excu-
sable for the supporting of schools of inferior
quality. When all the inhabitants of her com-
munities who could and would work at man-
ual labor, were compelled to do so for the sub-
sistence of themselves and their families; how-
ever much natural abilities or education might
have enabled many of them to excel as in-
structors of the young, there was little room
for choice as to who should be the common
educators of the children.
	But happily, that period is passing away, and
brighter ideas of better methods are being
molded into practical shape. Men and women
of superior talents, great force, energy and
strength of character are coming forward to
aid the genuine cause of real advancement.
And present appearances indicate profitable
and gratifying results.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


HOME AFFAIRS.

	LATE COMMUNICATIONS from Cache Val-
ley, inform us, that very severe cold weather
has been experienced there during the past
few weeks,and that a greater depth of snow
has fallen than has been known for several
years.
	PRESIDENT YOUNG has again retired to
his Sonthern home in St. George, where,
we are pleased to learn, he is in the enjoy-
ment of good health.
	CHRISTMAS is again "at the door," and
will have made his cheery call and passed
by before another number of the EXPONENT
is issued. So we take the present opportu-
nity of wishing our friends, one and all a
"Merry Christmas."


[Column 1]
	LOVE LETTERS OF EMINENT
			PERSONS.

	In one of his celebrated essay, Lord Ma-
cauly discusses the love letters of Sir Wil-
liam Temple. He says he would very wil-
lingly exchange tons of State papers for a
very moderate amount of these love letters.
The letters of William Temple to his Doro-
thy are certainly interesting enough, and at
this time of the year especially, may be as-
sociated with wider and deeper sympathies
than the Triple Alliance. Macauly says he
would very much like to know what proofs
of tenderness a young lady would be per-
mitted to give her lover. We should for
our own part have thought that this was a
dangerous and distracting subject for his-
torical investigation, fraught with decided
peril to the historic mind. The first idea is
that the manners and customs of lovers do
not greatly vary in any age. This, however,
would perhaps be a mistake. In the dia-
logues of Erasmus the young lady refuses
to give her betrothed a single kiss, classically
observing, "Ut me totam iilibatamaque tibi
trodam." In some shades of society cares-
ses have been strictly inhibited, and it is in-
teresting to see that Lord Macaulay had di-
rected his powerful mind toward the eluci-
dation of the subject. In the opinion of
another great writer, with whom Macaulay's
mind had much in sympathy, we mean
Alexander Pope, love letters lay at the
foundation of all literature. He describes
how they “speed the soft intercourse from
soul to soul:"
Heaven first taught letters for some wretch’s aid—
Some banished lover, or some captive maid;
They live, they speak, they breathe what love inspires,
Warm from the soul, and faithful to its fires;
The Virgin’s wish, without her fears impart,
Excuse the blush, and pour out all the heart.
	Most of us know by heart Tennyson's 

[Column 2]
pretty little poem about "The Letters,” how
“she gave my letters back to me,” which
the young lover refused to receive:
	She told me all her friends had said,
		I raged against the public liar;
	She spoke as if her love were dead,
		But in my words were seeds of fire.
	I spoke with heat, and strength and force;
		I shook her breast with vague alarms—
	Like torrents from a mountain’s source—
		We rushed into each other’s arms.

	Love letters form part of the choicest ma-
chinery of the poet and the novelist. Pope’s
own letters, whether to Lady Mary Wortley
Montague, or to Erinna, or to Martha Blount,
are probably love letters, and we shall watch
with much interest their elucidation by
Whitwell Elwin. One of our most popular
novelists discusses with much force the great
value of these letters, and how men who
are unable by word of mouth to do them-
selves justice can nevertheless thoroughly
reveal their whole nature in their love let-
ters. This is probably very true. Many
men get on much better in paper work than
in a viva voce examination. At the same
time it must be very puzzling to many
young ladies of the present day to have
highly intellectual letters from their lovers.
They must be greatly puzzled when gentle-
men of a speculative tone of mind, or some
sucking young “lion” of the press of the
future, sets forth his whole nature for Aman-
da or Amata. As a rule the letters of any
genius with a gift of utterance must cause
decided wonderment to the fiancee who will
probably mainly rely upon the endearing
expressions at the beginning and end, or
any wax kisses that may be discovered on
the envelope. We have heard it suggested
that young ladies in such difficulties had
better apply to their brothers at college.
That the subject of love may not loose its
power over the minds of young men, ob-
serve that the sapient authorities of the
University of Cambridge have given as the
subject of a gold medal this year,
	"Hominun Divuugue voluptas
	Alma Venus."
	The love letters of eminent persons are
generally letters written before they became
eminent. A great author will not confine
his intellectual efforts to the penny post
when a publisher will handsomely remuner-
ate him for revealing them to the world.
In the case of poets a large part of their ef-
fusions might without much straining, be
brought within the category of love letters.
But then other “eminences" mostly write
their love letters before they achieve great-
ness or have greatness forced upon them.
This is a great consolation for the lawyer
that can get no briefs, the doctor that can
get no practice, the young politician who can-
not get a seat, and the young writer who has
his articles rejected. They can take it out
in their love letters. I am sorry for any
eminent man who has to engage in this de-
scription of correspondence. According to
the old joke the lawyer might tie up his let-
ters with red tape, and the physician may
make a muddle of his prescription. Love
letters must take it out of a man, and, in
point of fact, love-making requires an
amount of time and concentration of pur-
pose that can be ill-spared from professional
pursuits. Eminence generally means effort,
and a man in full work cannot afford time
for such ludibria lunce. They form the glo-
rious privilege of leisure and youth.
	Among the more remarkable love letters
is the celebrated volume of “Foster’s Es-
says.” We believe that all these remarka-
ble essays were originally written to the lady 
to whom he was engaged. McDonald makes
one of his novels simply autobiographical;
love letters written by a man to vindicate

[Column 3]
his character in the eyes of the woman he
loved. Literary men are not always so vol-
uminous in this description of epistle. We
once detected a very able reviewer in the
weakness of writing a love letter. “I’ll
not detain you long,” he observed; “I never
give the young women more than a 'short
notice.'" The young reviewer ought to have
written his letters a year or two before; he
had now too much work on hand. There is
a glorious old poet, Thomson, the author of
“The Seasons,” who shows a sad gleam of ro-
mance in his verses to Amanda.—From
London Society.


﻿FORGET-ME-NOT.—In the'Gardner’s Mag-
azine is related an interesting incident of
a lady gardener who gathered a handful of
the world renowned flower forget-me-not,
and to preserve them as long a period as pos-
sible, they were put in a soup-plate filled
with rain-water. The flowers were placed
near the window. In a surprisingly short
space of time threadlike roots were emitted
from the portion of the flower-stalks in the
water, and they ultimately formed a thick
net-work over the plate. The flowers re-
mained quite fresh, excepting a few of the
most advanced, when gathered, and as soon
as the roots began to run in the water, the
buds began to expand, to take the place of
those which faded, and up to the middle of
November the boquet— if it may be called
—was a dense mass of flowers, and a more
beautiful or chaste ornament for the indoor
apartment cannot be imagined.


HUMOROUS.

	A HEAD-wind—A sneeze.
	SKY-LIGHTS—Sun, moon and stars.
	YOUNG LADIES economy—never throw
away a good match.
	A GOOD-NATURED spinster used to boast
that she always had two good beaux; they
were elbows.
	Jones got trusted for that hat, and he now
feels a consciousness of being in debt, “over
head and ears.”
	A POLITICAL Orator, speaking of a cer-
tain general whom he admired, said he was
always on the field of battle where the bul-
lets were the thickest.
	“Where was that?"
	“In the ammunition wagon."
	A QUAKER gentleman riding in a carriage
with a fashionable lady decked with a pro-
fusion of jewelry, heard her complain of the
cold. Shivering in her lace bonnet and
shawl as light as a cobweb, she exclaimed,
“What shall I do to get warm?" "I really
don’t know,” replied the Quaker, solemnly’
“unless thee should put on another breast-
pin.”
	AN ENGLISH officer was present with the
King of Prussia at a review of his gigantic
regiment: “Would an equal number of your
Englishmen beat my guards?” asked his
Majesty. “I dont know, sire; but half the
number would try."
	A WEALTHY parvenu lately gave the
church which he attends two tablets of stone,
with the Ten Commandments engraved
upon them; whereupon a witty lady mem-
ber of the church remarked that his reason
for giving away the Commandments was
that he could'nt keep them.


The Erie Canal is closed!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE.

There's a poison drop in the purest cup.
That earth born mortals are doomed to sup;
There are piercing thorns on the brightest rose,
Which beauty and fragrance on earth bestows.

There are darts of death in the fleecy clouds,
And they're changed too oft into deathly shrouds
As they gather in storms on the ocean wide,
Where thousands are sunk in its foaming tide.

The brightest smiles and most joyous throbs
Change alas! too often to tears and sobs;
And aching hearts in deep anguish cry
As their shattered idols in ruins lie.

The frost still kills the fairest flower,
And the sunshine's hid by the passing shower,
And flinty stones the pathway line,
That leads to the haven of love's pure shrine.

Yet would you shrink from the nectar's brink
Afraid of the poison deep to drink;
Or withdraw your hand from the blushing rose,
When pierced by the thorn that near it grows?

Would you bid the thunder cease to roll
And silence the death knell's solemn toll?
These bid the poisoned mists depart,
And life and vigor anew impart.

Would you cease to smile because tears are shed,
Because joy so oft is to sorrow wed?
If idols are shattered and torn away,
we will find them again in the Brighter Day.

Would ye cease to sow the germs of life,
Because the seeds of death are rife?
Or cease to seek for love's pure shrine?
Life's thorns are planted by hands divine.

Howe'er so bitter may seem the cup,
'Tis a voice of love that bids us sup;
And a gentle hand will guide us still,
If we but bend our own, wild will.

Our will to His, our God and Friend,
Who doth love's purest blessings send;
And guides us in the narrow way,
That leads to Life's Eternal Day.
							HOPE.


[Column 1]
	       
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	ORDER.––Never leave things lying about
–– a shawl here, a pair of slippers there, and 
a bonnet somewhere else, trusting to a ser-
vant to set things right. No matter how
many servants you have, it is a miserable
habit, and if its source is not in the intel-
lectual and moral character, it will inevita-
bly terminate there. Children should be
taught to put things back in their places as
soon as they are old enough to use them.
If each member of the family were to ob-
serve this rule, the house would never get 
much out of order, and a large amount of
vexation and useless labor would be avoided.
	TABLE CONVERSATION.––A great deal of
character is imparted and received at table.
Parents too often forget this; and therefore,
instead of swallowing your food in sullen
silence, instead of brooding over your busi-
ness, instead of severely talking about others, 
let the conversation at the table be genial,
kind, social and cheering. Do not bring dis-
agreeable things to the table in your conver-
sation any more than in dishes. For this
reason, too, the more good company you
have at your table, the better for your chil-
dren. Every conversation, with company at
the table, is an educator of the family.
	WHAT MAKES A CHEERFUL TEMPER.––
If by chance one stumbles on a  household
where the woman does not disdain house-
wifery work, and especially the practical su-
perintendence of the kitchen, there we may
be sure we shall find cheerfulness and con-
tent. There seems to be something in the 
life of a practical housekeeper that answers
to the needs of a woman's best nature, and
that makes her pleasant and good-tempered.
Perhaps it is the conciousness that she is do-
ing her duty––of itself a wonderful sweet-
ener of nature; perhaps the greater amount
of bodily exercise keeps the liver in good

[Column 2]

tone; whatever the cause, sure it is that
homes of the active housekeepers are more
harmonious than those of the reckless and
do-nothing sort.
	TO DETECT COPPER IN PICKLES OR
GREEN TEA.––Put a few leaves of the tea
or some of the pickle, cut small, into a phial,
with two or three drachms of liquid ammo-
nia, diluted with one half the quantity of
water. Shake the phial, when, if the most
minute portion of copper is present, the
liquid will assume a fine blue color.
	ICEING FOR CAKE.––One pound of pul-
verized sugar, the whites of five eggs. Beat
the whites until very dry, to which add the
sugar very gradually, a teaspoonful at a
time until all is added. Put on the first
coating without thinning. Make the second
sufficiently thing with lemon juice or rose-
water to go on smoothly. Put in a warm
place to dry.
	ANTIDOTE FOR POISON.––A poison of any
conceivable description and degree of poren-
cy, which has been swallowed intentionally
or by accident, it is said, may be rendered
almost instantaneously harmless by swal-
lowing two gills of sweet oil. An individ-
ual with a very strong constitution should 
take double the quantity. The oil will neu-
tralize every form of vegitable or mineral
poison with which physicians are acquainted.
	SPICED TOMATOES.––To four pounds of
large, red tomatoes, take two pounds of good
brown sugar, a pint of cider vinegar, half
an ounce of cloves, and half an ounce of 
stick cinnamon. Stew all together in a pre-
serving kettle over a slow fire, until the to-
matoes are nearly cooked. Take them out
and put them on dishes to cool, letting the
syrup go on simmering slowly. When the
tomatoes are cold, return them to the syrup
and finish cooking. Let them become cold 
before putting them into jars. The syrup
must be boiled down as thick as molasses,
and poured cold over the tomatoes. Tie them
down with bladder or waxed paper.
	A VALUABLE CEMENT.––The following is
a useful cement to fasten objects of wood to
others of metal, glass, stone, etc. Good
cabinet makers glue is warmed up with wa-
ter to the consistency necessary to connect
wooden objects; then add enough sifted ash-
es to bring it to the thickness of a varnish.
The cement should be applied to the surface
of the objects to be united when warm, and
then they should be pressed together tight-
ly. After cooling and drying, the surfaces
are so strongly united as to require great 
force to separate them. Grinding stones
fastened on wood, and handles to painters'
stones for grinding colors' have been used
for more than a year without exhibiting any
appearance of fracture.
	LEMONS FOR FEVER.––Says Dr. Hall;
When persons are feverish beyond what is
natural, indicated in some cases by a metallic
taste in the mouth, especially after drinking
water, or by whitish appearances on the 
greater part of the surface of the tongue;
one of the best "coolers," internal or exter-
nal, is to take a lemon, cut off the top, sprin-
kle over it some loaf sugar, working it down
into the lemon with a spoon, and then suck
it slowly, squeezing the lemon, and adding 
more sugar as the acidity increases from be-
ing brought up from a lower point. Inva-
lids with feverishness may take two or three
lemons a day in this manner with the most 
marked benefit, manifested by a sense of 
coolness, comfort, and invigoration. A lemon
or two thus taken at tea-time, as an entire
substitute for the ordinary supper of Sum-
mer, would give many a comfortable night's

[Column 3]
sleep, and an awakening after rest and in-
vigoration, with an appetite for breakfast to
which they are strangers who will have their
cup of tea for supper, or "relish" and "cake,"
and their berries or peaches and cream.


MORNING.

	How many times has my heart been glad-
dened by the rising of the sun over the hills
of the old homestead, where the corn and
clover sparkled with the dew, and the new-
ly headed wheat nodded lazily to and fro in
the enchanting breeze, as spring and sum-
mer joined hands for the coming harvest.
I looked upon the broad fields with a proud
eye then, for I thought every speckled corn-
tassel and budding kernel gave promise of
much happiness. But as the brightest
morning may be darkened by the clouds
that seemed so beautiful when far away, so
our lives may be shadowed by the approach
of that which was wont to dazzle our eyes
with its deceptive glory. But however
darkly the gloom may gather, we know
there is always "sunshine above the mist."
	It is natural for us to look back upon our
childhood, and liken it to the morning; be-
cause the horizon of our life has never since
seemed so bright, nor music of the birds by
the wayside so sweet, nor the breath of the
flowers so fragrant; and our friends, un-
masked of our childish confidence by the
noonday sun, have never since proved so
true.
	There is always a charm hovering over
the morning; and its magical presence lends
beauty to every thing we see or hear.
Would you listen to music? It may be
grand at night—it is sublime in the morn-
ing! Would you know a friend? Meet him
in the morning. You will then find him
more as God made him, than after the en-
chanted hour has passed. Would you look
upon Niagara, or some old silvery-browed
mountain? Go, while yet the darkness lin-
gers near, and see how they smile upon the
morning.
	Glorious morning! We can almost im-
agine heaven nearer as you approach; for in
heaven it is almost morning.—Hebrew.


SCENES ON TURUAI.

	      SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN.

	On the 4th of January, 1851, Elder B. F.
Grouard, Br. Pratt's missionary companion,
made a great feast, to celebrate his 33d birth-
day. It was at his own dwelling house; a
building 70 feet long, without a partition;
in which three families lived, one at each
end, and one in the centre, each knowing
its own boundaries: room plenty, cooking
all done outside.
	The manner in which the house was built;
showed taste and ingenuity. Timbers up-
right, sticks woven between, like a willow
basket, plastered out side and in, with lime,
made from the coral rock, white as new fall-
en snow. The roof, a thatching of the leaves
of the "Farra" tree, a foot in thickness, im-
pervious to both rain and heat.
	To this feast a hundred guests were in-
vited. The food was purely native, with
the exception of fifty mince pies, made by
four American women, who were there with
their families, belonging to the mission.
The pies were made for the special occasion,
and acknowledged to be of superior quality.
The ground floor of the house was first cov-
ered with long coarse grass, thickly lain;
then broad mats spread through the centre,
from end to end, answering the purpose of


both table and seats. Then table cloths of
plaited leaves, on which the food was lain,
independent of dishes. Then large leaves
the size of dining plates were placed in or-
der around; these last were in the place of
china. The cocoa nuts, containing the sweet
milk, which we were to drink instead of tea,
were made to stand erect, so as to be used for
drinking cups; (one to each plate,) plucked
at an early stage, when the milk is delight-
ful drink. The rough bark taken off, the
shell of a pale yellow, contrasted beautifully
with the dark green leaves. The pigs, fowls
and fishes, were cooked whole, by the na-
tives, in ovens made in the ground; served
up as neatly, unbroken, and unbruised, as
any white woman in the world could have
prepared them. Then the fruits of the Island,
a score of varieties, were interspersed, giving
a charm to the whole.
	I have seen tables adorned with the costli-
est dishes, but never did my admiration rise
so high on any like occasion, as at the sight
of that table! When all were seated around,
Brother Grouard called on the Lord in the
Tahitian tongue, which we could mostly un-
derstand; and rendered thanks, that he had
lived to see that day; for which he had so
fervently longed, for eight successive years,
when Elders would come to his relief, and he
be at liberty to return to the church. It was
truly an affecting scene, cheerful as everything
appeared. Those of us who knew him best,
knew what he had mentally suffered, in that
secluded world, among a people who, though
they clung to him with the devotion of chil-
dren for a parent, were incapable of com-
panionship for a man in every way consti-
tuted to enjoy society of a high order; and
though he might love them for their artless
innocence, there could be no interchanging
of corresponding sentiments between them to
satisfy the longings of an aspiring mind.
	After the dinner was over, the lord of the
feast made an appropriate and pathetic
speach in his own language, (interpreting to
the Island guests,) relative to his joy in greet-
ing so many of his old friends on that for-
eign shore—the missionaries with their fam-
ilies had but newly arrived—and how he
felt repaid for his years of solitude, in see-
ing our faces once more in the flesh. A strong
sense of duty had bound him there, as he
had been instructed previous to leaving Nau-
voo, not to build up churches, and leave them
without an Elder to preside: he had been
true to his trust. After receiving hearty con-
gratulations; he further remarked, that if he
lived 33 years more, which would bring him
to his 66th year, he would make another
feast, and invite us all, if we were living
on the earth. We all expressed wishes that
it might be so, however great the uncer-
tainty.
	A few words, I must say about the dresses
of the native sisters: Their dresses were
principally of fine bleached domestic; there
were a few pink muslins; long, lose robes,
reaching below their feet, which were bare:
these robes were as neatly washed and ironed
as they could be done. The younger women
wore wreaths of flowers about their heads
and necks, and flowers in their ears for jewel-
ry. Flowers in January, natural ones; fine-
ly scented; and the only kind prized by the
native women. "Oh," thought I, "here in
this little world" (I could walk around it in
a day,) "stern winter does not come! No
biting frost, no ice or snow. The God of na-
ture has set their bounds—'Thus far canst
thou come and no further'"	L. B. P.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The Empress of China and her mother were
lately thrown from their carriage into a pond
but escaped unhurt.


FEMININE BEAUTY.

	The loveliest adornment of perfect wo-
manhood is unconsciousness of self. If the
woman possessed of this rare virtue be lack-
ing in physical beauty, nay, even plain, there
is an air in her innocence and simplicity
more potent than the smiles of the fairest
featured siren that ever deluded the sus-
ceptible heart of man. There is something
in the presence of a vain and pretentious
woman that, be she ever so fair, repulses
rather than attracts admiration. She is re-
garded only for the symmetry of her form
and features, and like a cold and senseless
statue of stone, her eyes never change or
lose their fixed and soulless expression; they
never lighten up with the beauty of thought
nor sparkle with the conception of any new
and sublime idea; their changeless look is
not the repose of peace, nor the steady gaze
of unchanging happiness—it is only the
fixed stare of a heartless, worldly woman,
whose only thought is of self; who is ever
insensible to the pleasure of doing good to
others—an expression of unchangeable
selfishness.
	True beauty lies in the hidden perfections
of the soul. The most lovely type of per-
fect womanhood is the being whose heart is
not insensible to refined and tender feelings
that mingles and blends itself with every
act and deed of her life. No feminine face
is truly beautiful that does not wear, to a 
certain extent, an expression of content-
ment and repose. Ruskin has said: "Do
not think you can make a girl lovely if you
do not make her happy. There is not one
restraint you can put on a good girl's nature—
there is not one check you give to her in-
stincts of affection or of effort—which will
not be indelibly written on her features with
a hardness all the more painful because it
takes away the brightness from the brow of
virtue. The perfect loveliness of a woman's
countenance can only consist in the majestic
peace which is found in the memory of hap-
py and useful years, full of sweet records;
and from the joining of this with that yet
more majestic childishness, which is still
full of change and promise, opening always,
modest at once and bright with hope of bet-
ter things to be won and to be bestowed.
There is no old age where there is still that
promise—it is eternal youth."—Ex.


[For the EXPONENT
		LITTLE GRAVES.

	Little graves—they are sacred things,
holding through all the long vista of years a
hallowed spot in our memories. Our minds
are carried back to a time that seems but
yesterday, as we contemplate the little
mound of earth which covers what we once
considered our chief treasure. How we
clasped the little forms to our hearts, fondly
thinking that our holy love could protect
them from every harm; but sickness and
pain laid hold of them, and all our strongest
efforts were unavailable. Death, grim and
relentless claims them and we can only
weep over the icy forms which but a few
short hours before were warm, breathing,
loving human beings. And we are fain to
acknowledge the strength of that grim
hand, that can change to lifeless clay the
glowing beauty and bright impulses of the
treasured forms. How quickly the hand of
decay marks its progress! All too soon the
lovely form must be robed in the habiliments
of the grave. The cold, clods fall upon the
coffin lid; and colder yet upon our hearts is
every sound that shuts them from our sight
forever! Forever? No! it is not forever!


Only a few short days, or years perhaps,
and we shall all be gathered to that un-
known land, to meet the angel forms that
wait to give us welcome there. And yet,
in those short years, what changes come!
New ties spring up around us, and other
little forms claim our love and care. New
joys surround us, new sorrows cross our
paths: and often when we kneel in fervent
prayer, we feel to say, Heaven's will be
done; 'tis better thus, our little ones should
sleep, and know no care, nor grief of life's
dark hours. God is all merciful, and in his
care no pain or toil or dark unhallowed pas-
sions fix their impress on the immortal soul.
No taint of crime, or guilt can reach the
heart that went so innocent and pure.
	Oh Thou great power supreme! Who
holdest the destinies of our poor, erring
hearts, say, hast thou seen some merciful
providence, in strewing thus our land with
little graves?
	Let us gaze with reverence on these way-
marks of our mortality; and when our long-
ing hearts are filled with high ambitious
thoughts, and love of gold or fame or emi-
nence shall fill our minds, we'll kneel beside
our buried hopes, and know that all our
cherished plans, our worldly hopes and fears,
our pleasure or despair, must end in this—
the grave.—
	Kneeling beside those little mounds, we
may shed grateful tears, and ask in prayer
the holy power that guides our daily walks,
that our paths may all be filled with peace,
and love, aud righteousness; that we may
so live that when our souls are called hence,
we may join the angel bands, and rejoice
with the faithful where sin and sorrow en-
ter not.						M. J. T.
	Provo.


For the EXPONENT.
			WHAT I LIKE.

	I like to see a countenance calm, pleasant
and intelligent; in which one can behold a
buoyant, confiding spirit, beaming forth,
bright as the morning sun. A soul joyous as
the lark, when, rising from her nest with the
early dews upon her wings she sallies forth
in search of food necessary to sustain her-
self and her young; chirping, singing, fill-
ing the air with her sweet notes of gladness.
	I like a home pleasant and lively. Where
there is a place for every thing, and every
thing is kept in its place. where all the in-
mates perform their duties with alacrity and
delight. Where peace is cultivated and
nourished, as carefully as a judicious gard-
ener would nourish a very choice plant.
Where truth is held in honorable remem-
brance, cherished in every heart, lisped by
every tongue. Where confidence reigns,
and frankness and honesty pervades the cir-
cle. Where slander with her vile tongue is
cast out and trampled under foot as a nox-
ious weed. Where trouble and gloom are
neither invited nor harbored, but vanish
like false shadows. Where industry is
taught, cherished and put into every-day
practise. Where labor instead of being mur-
mured against, is considered healthful exer-
cise, of which a reasonable amount must,
necessarily be taken, in order to expand and
strengthen the various members of the bo-
dy, as well as to enliven and enlarge the fa-
culties of the mind, and keep all the pow-
ers of active being in delightful harmony.
				    HARRIET A. SNOW.
	BRIGHAM CITY.


Agassiz the Famous Naturalist died on the
14th inst.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
					AGENTS.
 Salt Lake City
Mrs. Zina D. Young,  Mrs. Elvira Barney,
 	          ,, Margt. P. Young,   ,, Amanda Kimball
	          ,, Lily Staines,         ,, Elizabeth Davis,
	          ,, Sarah Smith,         ,, Hampton, 16th
	          ,, Mary J. Thomson,        Ward,
	          ,, Margaret Steel,	    ,, Sarah E. Smith, 
			       Miss Sarah E. Russell.
				CORROSPONDENTS
Mrs. Laura Miner,    Mrs. E. B. Wells, 
 		  ,, A. B. Smith,        Miss Mary E. Cook.
					   AGENTS
Weber County, 
		  ,, A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
				  Oneida County, Idaho.
		Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
			Mary Rich, Paris.
				Rich County
		  ,, Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
		  ,,  Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
				Cache County. 
		  ,, M. A. Maughan, Logan,
		  ,, Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
				Box Elder County.
		  ,, Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
				Davis County.
		  ,, Mary Clark, Farmington,
		  ,, Aurelia Rogers, 	   "
		  ,, Margaret Randell, Centreville,
		  ,, Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
		  ,, Susan Grant,               "
		  ,, Sylvia Clark,		"
				Salt Lake County.
		  ,, — Higgins, West Jordan, 
		  ,, Barbara Moses, agent & cors . Big Cot-
			tonwood. 
				Tooele County.
	Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
	Mrs. E. Clegg,			"	"	
	Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
				Utah County.
		  ,, — Brown, Pleasant Grove, 
		  ,, Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
		  ,, — Harrison,         "
		  ,, Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
				Juab County.
		  ,, Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
		  ,, Ann Pitchforth, 
		  ,, Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
				Sanpete County.
		  ,, M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
			City,
		  ,, Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
		  ,, Helena Madison, Gunnison.
	Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
	Mrs. Mary Thorpe,		"
				Millard County.
		  ,, Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
		  ,, Belinda M. Pratt,        "
	Miss Mary Callister,		"
				Beaver County.
	Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
		  ,, L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors. 
				Iron County.
		  ,, Mary Weimer, Parowan, 
	Miss Josephine Smith,	"
				Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
		  ,, Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
		Cedar City.
				Washington County.
		  ,, Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
		St George,
		  ,, Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


AMATEUR COOKERY.

	There is a kitchen millennium approach-
ing, when the occupation of domestic croak-
ers will be gone, and they will have to search
elsewhere for employment, because the ques-
tion of service is to be speedily settled.
"What shall we do with our daughters?"
questions Mrs. Livermore of nearly every
lyceum audience in the country. "Make
cooks of them," answers Mrs. Howe tri-
umphantly, and sets to work at once on her
plan of reformation. It has had a small be-
ginning in the "Girls Club." They meet
every Saturday during the winter. When
it was time for the meetings to cease for the
season, they resolved themselves into a num-
ber of small clubs for work during the sum-
mer. There was a French class formed, an
Italian class, a class in mental philosophy,
another in social analysis, and at Mrs. Howe's
suggestion, a cooking club.
	This is by many the largest class of all,
and decidedly the most enthusiastic. All
manner of experiments are tried; old fami-
ly recipes are hunted up that have been
hidden away because they have been utter-
ly useless, and yet were kept in the family
like a tradition. French cook books are stu-
died with more earnestness than was ever
given to French grammar. The regulation
cook looks on aghast, but as yet says nothing.
She is a trifle more supercilious; she is very
skeptical; she does not believe that this new
enthusiasm will last; she does not dream
that her scepter is falling from her hands to
the dainty white ones open to receive it.
Isn't this the beginning of a social revolu-
tion?
	Every week a supper or dinner or a break-
fast is given at the house of one of the
members, and every one has to contribute
something to the feast: The mysterious
"something" comes in a hand-basket care-
fully packed, and is given into the hands of
the ones who arrange the tables. Then there
is such a flutter of anticipation and eager-
ness until the doors are opened into the
dining-room, when they all flock eagerly out,
first to test each other's cooking. "How
nice that bread looks. Who made it?"
	"Oh! these delicious almond cheese cakes,
where did they come from?"
	"I brought them," calls one; "and what a
time I had with them. I didn't butter my
tins enough, and they broke dreadfully when
I took them out; but I mended every one,
and you never would know."
	"Parker House rolls! Who is up to that, I
wonder?"
	The blonde beauty of the club acknowl-
edges the rolls, and her sister, a young ma-
tron, lays claim to the bread, while the
chicken croquettes are owned by a bright,
black-eyed girl, who, when her duties as act-
ive member of the Cooking Club permits
her, translates biographies from the German
and writes pretty letters for the papers. Of
course these girls are very careful of criticism,
and they praise everything that comes to the
table, as they feel in duty bound to do. But
there is, beyond all this, a test by which
everything is really tried. After the sup-
per is over, a general talk on cooking ensues,
and recipes are exchanged. If a recipe is
not asked for, the unfortunate dish is never
again offered at the table. One of the young
ladies has already determined on gathering
together the nicest recipes, those that have
been tested, and publishing a cook book—a
cook book for girls, to be used for all practi-
cal purposes by the coming cooks. It will be
designed for those young house-keepers, too,
who are going to begin their domestic in
the old-fashioned way—of caring for their
houses themselves and making them really 
homes.—Boston Post.


CHEERFULNESS IS an excellent wearing
quality. It has been called the bright
weather of the heart. It gives harmony to
the soul and is a perpetual song without
words. It is tantamount to repose. It ena-
bles Nature to recruit its strength; whereas,
worry and discontent debilitates it, involv-
ing constant wear and tear.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electrically administered when cases requre.
	Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a half
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand. 

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 		-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 2.  		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1874.		 NO. 15.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE PREVAILING fashion for dressing
ladies' hair in New York, is a wide braid
extending from the top of the head to the
nape of the neck. Though seeming odd at
first, this is better than the great roll on top
of the head, or the idiotic fashion of crimps
or curls reaching almost to the eyes.
	THE WOMEN of Massachusetts are in ear-
nest about Suffrage, and don't mean to fail
in their object if industry, perseverance and
determination can accomplish anything.
They will present a petition to the Legisla-
ture of the State asking for amendments
to the State Constitution, so as to abolish all
political distinctions on account of sex. We
heartily wish them the success which their
ambition merits.
	Guelma Penn, sister of Susan B. Anthony,
recently died, after a lingering illness, in
Rochester, New York. She was one of the
fifteen women who exercised their right of
suffrage in Rochester last year. During her
long sickness, she was almost constantly at-
tended and watched over with unceasing
devotion by her sister. Let people who be-
lieve that great pursuits and noble aims,
necessarily deaden the finer senses, or cause
the gentle, affectionate nature of woman to
become coarser and more austere, notice
this incident in the life of Miss Anthony.
	INDIAN AGENT Ingalls, it is reported,
has made himself conspicuous through hav-
ing swindled the settlers in Southern Utah
and Nevada out of all the grain and goods
he could induce them to sell him, by fair
promises to pay in 90 days. He "settled"
with the farmers by giving them checks on
the First National Bank of Salt Lake, which,
when presented, were rejected, it being as-
certained that he had nothing to his credit
in the bank. The poor Aborigines will like-
ly be some time yet in learning to be strict-
ly honest, with such specimens of civiliza-
tion for their instructors.
	IN OUR last issue, under the title of "Pro-
gress of a Year," we published a brief re-
port of the efforts which have been made in
behalf of woman in this country. In the
present number, we condense from an Eng-
lish paper, a report of an address by Miss
Becker, which touches, in a pithy manner,
on some of the most prominent points of the
Woman Suffrage question among our trans-
atlantic neighbors. We hope the opposition
and difficulties experienced by the friends
of Woman suffrage will result in the better
understanding of and appreciation by wo-
men of the rights, responsibilities and privile-
ges of the elective franchise, when obtained
by them.
	THE WASHINGTON Capitol describes the
proceedings of the first day of the present
sitting of Congress, in a graphic and ludicrous
manner. It states that "Dr. J. P. Newman
resigned his position as the Lord's stump
orator of the Senate." And speaking of
Hon. George Q. Cannon, it says:
	"The next object of interest was the poly-
gamous representative of the polygamous
Mormons, a stout, rather good looking man,
with a face that indicates more culture and
sense than the average congressman. When

[Column 2]
he stepped forward to take the oath one of
the few remaining Christian statesmen moved
that Mr. Cannon be not sworn in because of
certain illegal practices of which he, the
delegate, had been guilty. This was under-
stood to mean that he, said delegate, had
united himself in the holy bonds of matri-
mony to four wives. The consternation that
spread over the House at this announcement
was ludicrous to contemplate. If a member
was to be excluded for possessing four wives
what was to become of the gentlemen of
one wife each and no end of concubines? * *
Right and left started up and denounced
the motion with such vigor that it went out
with great puffs of wind, and the rotund
representative of the saints came to the
front and took his swear at the Constitution.
The ladies craned their fair necks to get a
better view of the member who found wo-
men willing to take a part of him—quarter
him as it were—and quite a ripple of light
laughter ran around the galleries as he swore
to sustain the Constitution, his own being
so sorely tried


[Column 1]
			MISCELLANEOUS.

	The best court of equity is a good con-
science. 
	The color of the wind was discovered by
the man who went out and found it blew.
	Every man stamps his value on himself.
The price we challenge for ourselves is giv-
en us. Man is made great or little by his
own will.—Schiller.
	An editor says that the only reason he knows of
why his house was not blown away the other day
during a severe gale was because there was a heavy
mortgage upon it.
	Gold will turn the intellectual balance when weigh-
ed only against reputation; but will be light and in-
effectual when the opposite scale is charged with
justice, veracity and piety.
	He that lives in perpetual suspicion lives the life
of a sentinel never relieved, whose business is to look
out for an expectant enemy, which is an evil not
very far short of perishing by him.
	The evidences of the value of deep cultivation are
plainly shown wherever a ditch has been filled up,
or where the drains have been deeply placed. There
the crops show to visable advantage for more than
twenty years.
	Our most enduring good comes from the
resistance of evil, and that is the only way
of achieving that very good. All we gain
must be gained by earnest effort, and our
greatest happiness ensues from vanquish-
ing obstacles.
	I have had occasion to observe that a
warm blundering man does more for the
world than a frigid wise man. One who
gets into a habit of inquiring about pro-
prieties, and occasions, often spends his
whole life without doing anything to the
purpose.—Cecil.
	Professor Agassiz’s knowledge of natural
history was probably greater than that of
any other man living. In the pursuit of
that knowledge, inspired by an ardent en-
thusiasm, he had been a most arduous work-
er through a long life.

[Column 2]

	An engraver in Springfield, Mass., has cut
the Lord’s Prayer into a piece of copper less
than one-fourth the size of a silver three-
cent piece, and they say there is room in the
circle for fifteen or twenty words more.
	The Arcade (N. Y.) “Times” says that the
young ladies of the Wheaton Seminary at
Norton, Mass., in view of the panic, have
resolved that they will spend upon them-
selves “no money not imperatively demand-
ed by honesty, health, tidiness or mental
improvement, and will carefully avoid every
species of wastefulness,” which is a very
sensible resolution to make tand o keep.
	A curious law case has recently arisen in
Berlin. A poor apprentice lad was lucky
enough at the last drawing of the State lot-
tery to win one-fourth of the great prize.
His principal, who knew that the lad had
no money of his own, or at least not the
amount required to buy one-fourth of the
ticket, pressed his apprentice to confess
where he obtained the money for this pur-
pose. The winning penitent acknowledged
that it was the produce of the sale of a piece
of goods stolen from his employer. The
principal now claims the lottery prize as his
property. The boy’s relations, on the other
hand, object to its surrender. 
	SILENT INFLUENCE.—We are touching
our fellow-beings on all sides. They are af-
fected for good or for evil by what we are,
by what we say and do, even by what we
think and feel. May-flowers in the parlor
breathe their fragrance through the atmos-
phere. We are each of us as silently satur-
ating the atmosphere about us with the sub-
tle aroma of our character. In the family
circle, besides and beyond all the teaching,
the daily life of each parent and child mys-
teriously modifies the life of every person
in the household. The same process on a
wider scale is going on through the commu-
nity. No man liveth to himself, and no
man dies to himself. Others are built up and
straightened by our unconscious deeds, and
others may be wrenched out of their places
and thrown down by our unconscious influ-
ence.
	GIRL AND WIFE.—Who has not seen with
half wonder the sudden development of a
young couple when once they have become 
father and mother? A few days ago—yester-
day it seems—and they were almost children.
The young wife was a girl, with all the joyous
carelessness and heedless buoyancy of a child;
her older friends—at least those who had not
thought enough—shook their heads dubiously,
and told one another that she was "fit for any-
thing but to be married;" "she would be better
at home with her mother, or even at her
school.”  But the wife becomes a mother, and
a marvellous transformation takes place. There
may be the same vivacity and spirit, but all is
calmer, deeper, stronger. She has entered a
new world, and is endued with new powers. A
wise providence has taken the place of thought-
lessness, a firm self-reliance that of helpless
dependence, an untiring energy that of dreamy
inactivity. The girl has suddenly become a
woman, challenging your respect with your
admiration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT
					IN MEMORIAM.
	"THE MEMORY OF THE JUST IS BLESSED."—BIBLE.

Complimentary to "Exponent" Party, to celebrate the
	Anniversary of the Prophet Joseph's birth.

	In every land, and every age
		Men honor their illustrious dead,
	And garnish the historic page
	  	With Eulogies, of names who've led!

	In science, war, or realms of thought,
		Though far removed, or hither led;
	No fight so fearful as they fought
		In life,—none honored more when dead.

	Despised, disowned, accounted mad,
		Punished by faggot, dungeon, steel;
	How many a broken heart such had,
		Whose works were for their races' weal!

	No music from the trump of fame,
		No craving for a world's applause,
	No wish to win themselves a name,
		Inspired these Braves in duty's cause!

	But scarcely have they gone to rest
		Than stately monuments are raised;
	And party blazoned with their crest,
		Surrounds the shrines at which they're praised.

	Cities for centuries contend,
		Each wastes its time in nauseous lore,
	And circumstance unjustly bend
		For honor of their birth-place more!

	And many Saviors crucified
		As trators to their age and time,
	Have by their sons been deified
		And worshipped in their land and clime.

	But not for seers and sages old,
		In Christian or in Pagan world;
	Do we in reverence this day hold,
		Or ask a birth-day flag unfurled.

	Here, for "a man" we knew in life,
		Here, for a man we wept when slain,
	Here where his triumphs mark the strife,
		And promise of a future reign.

	Joseph, thy birth we celebrate,
		This day shall consecrated be,
	Till Israel's homes shall reverberate
		O'er Zion's land from sea to sea!

	Thou Prophet of the Latter-Day,
		Thou, in the midst of darkness sent
	By Revelation's power to sway,
		Till Heaven and Earth in one are blent. 

	Thou Faithful, True to thy great call,
		Through persecution, trial, DEATH,
	Then calm, serene, as evening fall,
		Dear martyred one, to yield thy breath!

	Joseph, the Seer, the Man of God,
		The Prophet--Martyr of our day;
	The Savior; if the path is trod
		Which thy example did portray!
	
	May we renew our love to thee,
		On this selected natal day,
	And through a faithful life agree
		To inaugurate the better day!

	When faithful men shall in their time
 		Have all the honors Truth bestows,
	Till earth shall have that genial clime
		Which in the Heavenly Kingdom glows.


R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Christina Lilienquist, President of
the Relief Society at Hyrum, Cache Co.,
writes from that place under date Dec. 9, 1873:
And informs us that the Society there is do-
ing a good work in caring for the sick; and
that the Teachers are very faithful in visit-
ing from house to house. They appreciate
and prize the EXPONENT, and realize that
it is a great help to them as a Society. Their
financial affairs are in a very good condition.

	Secretary Mrs. J. Rickard, of the Second
Ward in this city, reports a meeting of the
Relief Society, Dec. 11th, 1873, which was
attended by Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs.
Zina D. Young. After much good instruc-
tion had been given to those assembled in
meeting, a young ladies' association was or-


ganized according to the proper form; with
Miss Maria Petersen as President; Miss
Maria McGregor, Miss Josephine Johnson,
Miss Mary Lun, Miss Emma Hicks Counse-
lors, (two other counselors to be afterwards
chosen,) and Miss Mary Jensen Secretary.

	A highly interesting report of a special
meeting, held in the Sugar House Ward,
Dec. 10, 1873, is forwarded by Secretary
Mrs, Sarah Wheeler. The aged, and much
respected and beloved Mother in Israel,
Sister Elizabeth A. Whitney, was present
as a visitor, in company with Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. Z. D. Young and several others.
The sweet singing and precious words given
by Sister Whitney, formed a very pleasing
and characteristic part of the meeting.


FROM DIXIE.

	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Dec. 18th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	This beautiful morning, I take occasion,
according to promise, to address you a few
lines.
	We left Salt Lake City, Nov. 28th, and
arrived here Dec. 15th; had a prosperous 
journey. There were storms and cold wea-
ther after we left Nephi. We were detained
one day at Kanarra on account of wind and
snow.
	Our party consists of Prest. Young, his
wife Amelia, three teamsters and two young
girls; Bro. A. M. Musser and teamster;
my husband and son, and your correspon-
dent. We held twenty-five meetings on
the way. I met with and addressed the
sisters at Nephi, Ephraim, and Richfield;
the audiences were large. At Ephraim, the
members of the Relief Society were build-
ing a fine hall; they had also donated one
thousand dollars towards gathering the poor
Saints from Scandinavia; they are a splen-
did band of sisters, very energetic in all
their movements; they take about thirty
numbers of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
calculate to increase the number of subscrib-
ers, although many cannot read English.
In Richfield the same difficulties occur, many
not being able to read English. Richfield is
a new settlement, but enterprising; I had
a good time with the sisters there.
	The new road from Richfield across the
mountain to Cove Creek Fort, thirty-five
miles, passes through some very romantic
scenery. This road is a great improvement.
	Sevier County contains five hundred en-
terprising families; though the settlements
are all new, the irrigating canals are on a
scale that would do credit to the oldest coun
ties.  The red soil of this valley is very 
rich and is capable of sustaining a large
population.
	Sanpete County has sent ninety-three men
to assist in building the St. George Temple,
finding their own supplies. They com-
menced work to-day.
	Success attend your enterprise.
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.


A WORD TO THE WISE—Christian women,
do not begin the new year by putting an oc-
casion to stumble in a brother's way. Do not
tempt your guests with wine. Give them a
cordial welcome, your kindest wishes, your
brightest smiles, and whatever of "good-
cheer" your hearts may prompt; but offer
them nothing which can by any possibility
be a destruction and a snare. Let not your
deeds belie your words, and make for any of
your friends an unhappy new year.


MISS BECKER ON WOMAN SUFFERAGE

	On Tuesday evening, Oct. 1st, at Oakfield,
England, Miss Becker delivered the follow-
ing interesting address on Woman Suffrage.
Mr. Thomasson occupied the chair.
	Miss Becker commenced with a few com-
plimentary remarks, and then referred to
the political position of women, and said
that if they considered for a moment the va-
rious propositions that were made for the
welfare of the nation, they could not fail to
be struck with the omissions of all distinct
reference to women in many important
branches of legislation. There were certain
matters—such, for instance, as those rela-
ting to food and sanitary science—in which
the reference to women was not material,
because it was universally admitted that
in such matters the welfare of women was
included in that of men. But when they
came to consider the moral, intellectual, and
political welfare of the country, they would
find that all reference to women was omit-
ted, not because women were included, but
because they were excluded. It was admit-
ted that women had the same physical wants
as men, but as far as their intellectual and
social needs were concerned, it was thought
that what was desirable for the one was un-
desirable for the other. It was the object of
the movement they had the honor to repre-
sent to secure for women an equal share
with men in moral, intellectual and social
needs. All women labored under certain
political disabilities. They had no votes in
the election of the Government under which
they lived. It was true that very many
classes of men had no votes, but their dis-
qualification was very different indeed from
the disability under which women suffered.
At one time all who professed the Roman
Catholic faith were excluded from represen-
tation in Parliament, and were subjected to
a series of severe penal laws, but in the
course of time doctrines of civil and religi-
ous liberty prevailed and then Catholics
were enfranchised, because it was thought
that nothing short of that would secure
them such liberty. There was no mention
in the old Acts of Parliament of the franchise
being limited to men, the first enactment
in which it was limited to male persons be-
ing the Act of 1832. In the Act of 1867
the word "man" was used, and she contend-
ed that the word had a higher meaning than
was attributed to it by many, and included
humanity at large. In saying this, she was
not without authority, for in an Act of Par-
liament which had been brought in by the
late Lord Brougham it was expressly de-
clared that words imputing the masculine
gender should be taken to include females
in all the clauses of that Act. Before the
passing of the Act of 1867, it was stated in
the House of Commons that it was intend-
ed to give the franchise to all householders
rated for the relief of the poor, and many
poor women were hardly able to pay the ex-
tra rates imposed under this bill, but when
they applied to the courts in 1868, to claim
the votes given under the Act, they found
that the words imputing the masculine gen-
der applied to them in the clauses imposing
the burdens, but excluded them from the
clauses conveying the privileges. There
were certain classes of men, viz., minors,
idiots, lunatics, and criminals that were not
permitted to vote, and surely it was not
very wonderful that women should desire to
escape from such a category. But when 
they enquired into the question, they found
that the condition of women was worse. A
minor would be entitled to the franchise in
a few years, but a woman was never able to
acquire the right of voting. A learned


[Column 1]
judge had laid it down that "infants cannot
vote, and that women are perpetual infants."
She would ask them to bear in mind the
influence of women in the civilization of the
world, and say if that judge was right in
thus speaking of women, was it not true
that the most important lessons a man could
learn were learned at his mother's knee?
And was it right that the law should teach
him when he grew up, to regard his mother
as a perpetual infant? It had been proposed
in the House of Commons that when a man
was convicted of felony and sentenced to
penal servitude he should be disfranchised,
but Mr. Gladstone replied that it was not
right to punish a man by giving him "life-
long electoral incapacity." But although
this was thought too severe for criminals, it
was inflicted without compunction on a class
of beings who had never broken the law.
In effect, therefore, a man might rob his
mistress, go to prison for the offence, and
then come out of gaol and help to make
laws to govern the mistress he had robbed.
It had been laid down by authority that if
a lunatic had a lucid interval at the time of
an election, and was sufficiently "compo-
mentis" to distinguish between the candi-
dates, he was entitled to vote, but the law
regarded women as never having a suffi-
ciently lucid moment to vote; so that the
law placed them intellectually below luna-
tics, and morally, below felons. As to the
illiterate voter, they all knew the wonder-
ful pains that had been taken to secure his
vote. Yet, strange to say, an educated wo-
man was not allowed to record her vote.
There was an old maxim that taxation and
representation should go together, and that
was all she asked for. In 1868 it was found
that there was so much corruption in the
borough of Bridgewater that a Royal Com-
mission was sent down to report on the sub-
ject, and the committee found so much cor-
ruption that they disfranchised the borough.
Now the people of Bridgewater discovered
that a Royal Commission was a very expen-
sive luxury, and a rate of 3s. in the pound
was levied on the rate-payers. This rate fell
very heavily on a number of poor ladies in
the borough who were rate-payers, and they
sent a memorial to the Home Office, stating
that as they had no votes they should not be
called upon to pay for the faults of the men.
But Mr. Bruce replied that it was not in the
power of the Government to release them
from the imperial and local taxation to which
their property was liable. That perhaps was
a right answer to give, but what they asked
for was that women, who owned or occupied
property, should have the vote the proper-
ty would carry with it if they were men, in
addition to the monetary liabilities. It
might be said that their claim was a just one,
but that it was necessary to show more rea-
sons than the one that it was just. She could
not admit that. When a thing was clearly
put they might rest assured that good would
accrue from giving it, and that evil would
follow its refusal. Miss Becker then referred
to the speech which Mr. John Bright deliv-
ered in 1868, on the first occasion on which
he addressed a public meeting after his re-
covering from a severe illness. Mr. Bright
said: "I do not wish to endanger or remove
any of the ancient landmarks of our Consti-
tution. I do not wish to disturb this ques-
tion of the franchise beyond what has al-
ready been sanctioned by Parliament and
the country. I do not want to introduce any
new principle or theoretical opinion which
it may be found difficult to adopt.	*	*
*	*	*	*	*	What have we at
present in the way of franchises? We have
the parish franchise. For generations, for
ages past, there has been an extensive fran-

[Column 2]
chise in all our parishes. We have poor-
law unions which have worked on the whole
in a manner satisfactory to the country. We
have a franchise in our poor-law unions.
We have a corporation franchise, and that
franchise may be said to have worked to the
satisfaction of the country. I will ask any
man here whether he believes that in all
parishes, all the poor-law unions, and all the
corporations, men have not conducted them-
selves with great propriety, and managed
the affairs of their parishes, the poor-law
unions, and the corporations, women had
not conducted themselves with propriety;
and whether he would object to have the
same franchise conferred upon them for the
election of the members of the House of
Commons? She argued that in the days of
open voting the influence of women in an
election was greater than it was now when
a man voted secretly, according to his own
will and pleasure, and was responsible to no
one. The idea that the franchise was a
trust, had been done away with by the prac-
tice of secret voting, and it was, therefore,
only just that each class of the community,
who used formerly to influence an election,
should have the secret vote. The passing
of the Ballot Act had removed a great ob-
jection to women's suffrage. Mr. Gladstone
said that his objection to it was that it would
involve women in all the turmoil of contest-
ed elections, but the objection had now been
removed, for whatever else the ballot had
done it had introduced order into elections.
Women were very much addicted to com-
mitting matrimony, but when they did so
the law treated them as if they had com-
mitted felony. A criminal could not hold
property, and a woman from the day of her
marriage became incapable of possessing
property. There was not a large town in
England in which some woman was not
shamefully robbed every day. By the Act
of 1870, a woman, when she married, trans-
ferred all her liabilities to her husband, but
the House of Lords made this arrangement;
they gave the husband the property and the
wife the debts. Miss Becker then proceed-
ed to make a few remarks on the present
position of the movement. The Govern-
ment in encouraging women to come for-
ward as School Board candidates, distinctly
recognized the right of women to share in
the government of the country. How then,
she would ask, could women who sat at
School Board meetings and assisted to solve
such knotty points as the payment of de-
nominational fees, &c. be considered as
unfit to choose between two Parliamentary
candidates? It was too great an anomaly to
last. It was proposed to give the franchise
to agricultural laborers; but could it be said
that women had less political experience and
less capability for the franchise than agri-
cultural laborers? Why was the franchise
to be given to laborers? It was thought
they needed it as a protection. The very
same reason, she need hardly add, applied
to women. The extension of the Municipal
and School Board franchise to women had
worked well, and there was no reason what-
ever why the Parliamentary franchise should
be withheld. If men advance women must
advance. Man and woman must go hand in

[Column 3]
hand, and if man will not bring her forward
she will draw man back, for man cannot ad-
vance himself from woman. After sketch-
ing forth the programme of the Women's
Suffrage Society, Miss Becker concluded her
address by eloquently appealing to the audi-
ence to use whatever influence they possess-
ed to remove an anomaly which was inju-
rious to the best interests of the country.— 
“Bolton Guardian.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LOCAL NOTES.

	WHILE WE CONTEMPLATE
The dawn of the year eighteen, seventy four, we
can only ask, that with the advantage of past
experience, we, and our friends, may stamp
upon its page a better record, than we have left
upon that of any past year.
	OUR KIND CONGRATULATIONS
To Mr. D. A. Swan and Miss M. Cora, who
were married in this city on the 31st ult., Pres.
D. H. Wells officiating. May their peace be
perpetual, and their pathway strewn with flow-
ers.
		MRS. HATTIE MORRIS
Has been elected recording secretary for the
High Priest's quorum.
	"IN BLESSING YE ARE BLESSED."
Counselor Elias Morris of the bishopric of the
15th Ward will this day (New Year's) feast, or
entertain, at his table, the aged, the infirm, the
poor, the widow and the orphan of the ward,
and thus earn multiplied blessings, and honors.
			WE ARE PLEASED
To learn that the Boston centennial Tea Party
was crowned with the success that the occasion
and the times demand. Our sympathies are en-
listed for all earnest workers for the public
weal.
		WE MAKE OBEISANCE
To our next door neighbor, Wyoming. Larimie
County, has elected two women as members of
the Legislature, one third of the six representa-
tives to which the country is entitled. Mr.
Blackwell says that is equitable because women
form one third of the population there.
			WE QUERY
How many women it would require to make
the equitable proportion to which Salt Lake
County is entitled in our Legislature.
			WE LEARN
That the Florence Co., have reduced the price of
their machines from 30 to 40 per cent. That is
business.
			THE GRANGLS.
These organizations must become a power in
the land, and their results must be good, be-
cause they complete no organization without
the co-operation of women. Men and women
are ordained to stimulate each other to good
words, and good works.			S. M. K.


Five hundred millions of frances is the sum to-
tal of the damages inflicted upon Paris by the com-
munists. Add to this enormous aggregate the
amounts paid and still due to Germany, to this again
the incalculable damage inflicted upon the agricultu-
ral districts of unhappy France by the contending
armies, and an idea may be formed of what the
second empire cost the French people. Very dear-
ly have they paid for reconstructed Paris, for Cher-
bourg harbor, for a fleet of useless iron-clads, for
an army glittering and imposing in peace, but ut-
terly inefficient in war. The Bonapartes, uncle
and nephew, have added to the glory of France,
but the price paid for their services must be set
down as an exhorbitant one in the extreme, and,
if Frenchmen consult the welfare of their purses,
they will have nothing further to do with such ex-
pensive rulers.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.

			THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
		     
			L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

			   SVLT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	A hundred and sixty young ladies attend
the Cincinnati Wesleyan College............A
daughter of the poet Burns, Mrs. Thomp-
son died at Crossmyloof, near Glasgow, re-
cently, aged eighty-four years............Miss
Yonge is writing a Child's History of Eng-
land......Dr. Elizabeth Pope of Oneonta, N.
Y., has an extensive practice in that village
......Mrs. John P. Croser sent $5,000 as a
gift for the endowment fund of the Baptist
House for aged women at Philadelphia,
which was opened November 8th............
Volunteers for Cuba are organizing in
Louisiana......It is estimated that but half a
crop of anything has been raised in Mon-
tana this year......Persimmmon seeds are used
in Georgia as a substitute for Coffee.........
Wendell Philips lectures on "Labor, Tem-
perance and Woman"......A restriction of
Chinese immigration is favored by Geo
Booth of California.....Zuleika, a Persian
actress, is soon to make an appearance in
London......The hat, cloak and cane of Lord
Byron were lately exhibited at a Scottish
Fair......Watchel, Stanley and Parepa Rosa
return to America next season.......The indi-
go plant is indigenous to Florida......Mrs.
H. M. Tracy Cutler is spending the winter
in Paris......The town of Milton, California,
was recently almost entirely destroyed by a
tornado.


THE PARTY.

		Salt Lake City, Dec. 28th, 1873.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:
	Permit me, through the columns of the
EXPONENT to make known the result of our
party, held Tuesday, Dec. 23rd,
	After paying all expenses, we find a bal-
lade remaining, amounting to twenty-
five dollars, which we feel happy to turn
over for the benefit of the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT. Our Committee did their best to
make the party a success; and only regret
that our friends did not more generally
avail themselves of the opportunity to help
in so good a cause. There are yet, some
thirty tickets, or more, to be heard from, as
we were assured they should be paid for,
whether the purchasers were able to be pres-
ent at our entertainment or not; and I have
not the least doubt but that all who prom-
ised will come forward and pay for their tick-
ets; by so doing,they will give the Commit-
tee the gratification of knowing their exer-
tions were not in vain.
	I also desire, in behalf of our Committee,
to make honorable reference to Gen. D. H.
 Wells, for his kind assistance in procuring
the 14th Ward Hall, from Bishop Taylor,
who kindly gave us the use of the hall gra-
tuitously. Thanks to both gentlemen. Like-
wise to Sister M. I. Horne, the 14th Ward
R. S. and Sisters W. Jennings, E. Townsend,
K. Young and others for their liberality in
providing supper for the band &c. free of
expense to us. Sisters W. East and Eliza-
beth Stephenson, who, together with Bro.
Eddy East, voluntarily assisted in preparing
rooms &c. For all these favors we are truly
grateful. And speaking for myself, I say,
gentlemen and ladies, I thank you one and
all for your liberality and assistance. And
we can promise you, that with the blessing
of God, and your kind support, the Infant
EXPONENT will continue to grow, and speak
for itself, from time to time not as a child
with stammering tongue, but in tones whose
clearness shall penetrate to the hearts of all
who read.
	Leaving further comments to our worthy
Editor, I subscribe myself
		Yours very truly, MRS. E. DAVIS.


REFLECTIONS.

	Often when we hear people talk of trials and
tribulations, which have seemed to humble and
purify their natures, we wonder if such scenes
of suffering and sorrow are really necessary for
the purification and eventual exaltation of such
souls. Why wait for trials to subdue, and thus en-
noble the spirit? Those who study to gain wis-
dom and act upon correct principles, find less
cause for grief in the way of life than others
do; and when troubles do come to them they
are best prepared to meet them bravely and
bear them with fortitude, feeling no cause for
self-reproach.
	There is far more wisdom and happiness in
being humble, and submissive to the will of
God because we love Him and delight in His
ways, than in being brought to acknowledge
His hand through the weight of affliction.
	The commandments which the Lord has
given for the government of his people, are all
plain and easy to be understood and practiced.
Yet thought and attention must be devoted to
these principles which have been revealed, or,
simple and comprehensive as they are, we shall
walk blindly. And, in embracing some of
them, will be in danger, through want of know-
ledge and self-discipline, of finding trouble,
having taken upon ourselves to live by laws for
which we were unqualified and unprepared.
	The sacred marriage covenant, which com-
prehends the keeping of the first great com-
mandment, should never be entered into with-
out due consideration. It is always unwise
and most unprofitable to trifle with things so
sacred, or to treat the subject with little re-
spect. Particularly in entering plural marriage,
the principle should be as perfectly understood
by all parties concerned as possible. To realize
that the doctrine is of divine authenticity is not
sufficient, although to comprehend this is very
essential. Men and women should seek dili-
gently to know themselves. And if one feels
that he or she has not yet sufficient faith to
abide a holy law, in righteousness, first learn to
live before the Lord in such a manner as to
have faith and wisdom increased, until worthy
to live in the highest order in such perfection
as to ensure the highest glory.


﻿ANOTHER YEAR.

	Eighteen-Hundred and Seventy-three is now
with the dull dead past; but upon its pages have
been recorded potent facts, which will live in
history forever. Numerous great events have
transpired and been chronicled in all parts of
the world, during the course of its existence.
Yet even greater things may be contemplated
in meditating upon the year which dawns to-
day. The direful results, of financial crashes
which have occurred in the past year, will only
be fully realized during the reign of its imme-
diate successor. Present indications determine


that the race between reform and folly in every
shape, will be more swiftly and energetically
pursued in the next twelve months than in any
past period of the same length. And the bat-
tle between Truth and Error,—which in the
present dispensation, perhaps more than in any
other since the beginning, is making rapid ap-
proach towards a consummation—it may be re-
garded as a fixed certainty, will rage more
fiercely and bring about greater consequences
in the near future than in any time of the
past.
	To us, the face of the new-born year is truly
bright and joyous as our most ardent friends
could wish. And we feel like saying to our sis-
ters everywhere—Be of good cheer. If mis-
takes have occurred in the past to mar the hap-
piness of a life, let the future prove that per-
fection can be gained through experience. Put
away all jealousies and envious thoughts,
whether of a public or private nature. Be sure
that you are reasonable and just in all your de-
terminations and in all your practices. Seek to
build each other up in every legitimate way.
Pray often; and your faith in God and knowl-
edge of heavenly things will increase beyond
your most sincere anticipations. These things
and these alone can bring, to those who desire
to do good, peace and joy and satisfaction.
	President Wells, in his discourse in the 14th
Ward, last Sabbath, remarked that no Latter-
day Saint could afford to lay off the armor of
righteousness for one moment; for Satan was
ever on the alert, ready to decoy and ensnare
at every turn. This little remark is worthy of
the most careful attention of all Saints—it is a
truth of vast importance.
	Now we wish our friends and readers, one
and all, a happy New Year, and many blissful
returns of the day.


﻿CELEBRATION OF THE PROPHET’S
			 BIRTHDAY.

	The entertainment, concerning which the
above communication has been written—held
on the 68th anniversary of the birth-day of the
Prophet Joseph, instead of the 67th as was an-
nounced in our last issue was one long to be
remembered by those who participated therein.
	Besides the usual exercise of dancing, there
were very interesting addresses made upon the
birth, life and death of President Joseph Smith,
by Elders Orson Pratt and John Taylor, of which
more may be said in another issue of the EXPO-
NENT.
	The singing of the well known hymn "Hail to
the Prophet,” the recitation by Mrs. Davis of
Elder Jaques’ poem on Plural marriage and a
cvoal duet by two young ladies, with organ
accompaniment were very pleasant inci-
dents of the evening’s entertainment. Con-
siderable merriment was excited by the presen-
tation of a fine “artificial” baby, very plainly
and neatly dressed, as a representation of the
EXPONENT in its infancy. The little unconcious
creator of innocent mirth, reposing in a cozy,
home-made cradle, first appeared before the
company, in the hands of Elder Taylor. After
making a very spicy and most befitting speach
upon the subject, he submitted the “precious
charge” to the care of Miss E. R. Snow, who
in turn made appropriate remarks and then
handed it over to the Editor.
	We take pleasure in choosing the present fa-
vorable opportunity for offering our heart-felt
thanks, which we had not words to express at
the time, for the kindness manifested by our
worthy friends,towards us individually, as well
as in behalf of the enterprise in which we are
engaged.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A large and beautifully ornamented "birth-
day cake" bearing the date of birth, and name
of the Prophet—made for the occasion by Mrs.
E. Davis—was presented to the company. And
every individual present, had the privilege of
being personally satisfied, that the splendid ap-
pearance of the cake was fully equaled by its
eating qualities.
	Miss Snow being unable to deliver an address,
on account of a severe cold, penned the follow-
ing, which was read by Miss Mary E. Cook—

	ANNIVERSARY TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF
		PRES. JOSEPH SMITH.
			BY E. R. SNOW.
Brothers and Sisters,
	We are now celebrating the sixty-eight anni-
versary of the birth-day of a great and good
man.
	The birth and mission of Joseph Smith, the
man whom God called in childhood, to be His
chosen instrument in opening the long predict-
ed "Dispensation of the fulness of times," con-
stitute an event which will be perpetuated when
nations and their histories shall have been bur-
ied in oblivion. No greater prophet, except Je-
sus Christ, ever lived on earth.
	As a philanthropist, his soul was broad as
Eternity. In the cause of truth and righteous-
ness—in all that would benefit his fellow man,
his integrity was as firm as the pillars of Hea-
ven. He knew that God had called him to the
work, and all the powers of earth and hell
combined, failed, either to deter or divert him
from his purpose. With the help of God and
his brethren, he laid the foundation of the
greatest work ever established by man—a work
extending not only to all the living, and to all
the generations to come, but also to the dead.
	He boldly and bravely confronted the false
traditions, superstitions, religions, bigotry and
ignorance of the world—proved himself true to
every heaven-revealed principle—true to his
brethren and true to God, then sealed his testi-
mony with his blood, and left his faithful suc-
cessor, his brother philanthropist, Brigham
Young to lead forward in the mighty work
which he had commenced. How successfully
Pres. Young, in connection with his brethren,
has labored in fulfilling the designs of the first
leader, living facts demonstrate more forcibly
than the power of language.
	The names of Joseph Smith and Brigham
Young are like their works, interwoven in
wreaths of Immortality. The memories of
these men will never perish.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THANKS, FOR kind complimentaries on
Christmas, from friends in the 1st Ward,
and from Mrs. Mary L. Morris of the 15th
Ward.
	TO DAY, a Sabbath School and Ward pic-
nic is held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms. Elder John Taylor and Miss Eliza
R. Snow honor the company with their pre-
sence. We shall be able to give more par-
ticulars concerning the pleasantries and
good times of the day in our next.
	THE UTAH Northern R. R. which was
blockaded a short time since between Logan
and Hampton's Station, has, through the
energies and perseverence of the President
and men of the road, again been rendered
passable. Along a considerable length of
the track, a snow fence has been made, and
where it is necessary, sheds are being put
up. The trains  run now on time.
	THE SALT Lake Fire Department advances
rapidly in the line of progression. On the
26th ult., a new company, consisting of more
than one hundred men, was organized by
chief-engineer McAllister. Its station will
be at, or near the depot. This makes the
sixth company belonging to the department.
Last evening we met with a most agreeable
company at the Fire Brigade Ball, held in
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms. The hall
and withdrawing room, which were fitted


up by the Company, with articles mostly
belonging to itself, were as neatly and com-
fortably furnished as any we have had the
pleasure ot entering this season. Works of
art of various kinds, from their library,
which graced the tables of the withdrawing
room, spoke well for the good taste and love
of refinement which is cultivated and en-
couraged by the officers and members of the
department. The ball is to be continued
this evening,so as to give all the firemen an
opportunity to participate in the festivities,
and enjoy themselves.


FROM JUAB.
		NEPHI, Dec. 15th 1873.
Dear Sister Greene Richards:
	I will not say Editor WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, because I never learned to write for
the press, neither can I put my ideas on pa-
per in a manner to please myself.  But if
you can, at any time, cull an item from my
writing to you, that will be of any use to
your paper, you are at liberty to do so.
	Two weeks ago yesterday, Prest. Young
and party arrived here, and stayed over Sun-
day. During the time, we had much valua-
ble preaching. Prest. G. A. Smith, wife
and son stopped with us. We had a fine
time visiting with Sister Bathsheba. She
requested me to write a few lines about her
visit here. We had a meeting called of the
Relief Society. There was a general turn
out, to listen to the good advice and whole-
some counsel of Sister Smith. She spoke
on the subjects of Sunday Schools and the
interest we as mothers, should take in get-
ting our children ready to go, in teaching
them to pay tithing, to help build temples
and every other good work. Said the sis-
ters should sustain their husbands in every
good thing; they should be careful to ob-
serve the words of wisdom. She spoke to
the young ladies on retrenchment, and on
educating themselves, that they might be
able to fill important stations in the King-
dom of God.
	Prest. Smith also gave us some good
teaching, also Br. Musser, Sister Hartley
Prest. of the Relief Society at Levan, and
also our own Prest., Sister A. Goldsbrough,
who felt so much blessed at having the privi-
lege of meeting with Sister Smith and the 
other visitors, in which I felt to heartily join.
Taking it all together, we had a glorious
time.
	I believe it is a general time of health
here, at present, although I am not quite
well myself. The weather has been very
unfavorable of late. Money is very scarce.
	Wishing you success in every laudable
pursuit, I subscribe myself
		Yours sincerely,
				      AMY C. BIGLER.


﻿SPEND WISELY.—Look most to your
spending. No matter what comes in if more
goes out, you will always be poor. The art
is not in making money, but in keeping it;
little expenses like mice in a barn, when
they are many, make great waste. Hair  by
hair heads get bald; straw by straw the
thatch goes off the cottage, and drop by drop
rain comes in the chamber. A barrel is soon
empty if the tap leaks but a drop a minute.
When you begin to save, begin with your
mouth; there are many thieves down the
red lane. The ale-jug is a great waste. In
other things keep within compass. In
clothes, choose suitable and lasting stuff, and
not tawdry fineries. To be warm is the first
thing; never mind the looks.


HUMOROUS.

	A SMART THING —A mustard plaster.
	AN UNPOPULAR "ism" —The rheumatism.
	HOW TO raise beets—Take hold of the
top and pull.
	THE CONNECTION link between the ani-
mal and vegitable kingdoms—Hash. 
	OF ALL the birds that please us with
their lays, the most popular is the hen.
	IT IS very easy to say, Take things as
they come; but suppose they don't come.
	SINGULAR AFFECTION—It is rather odd
that so many horses should run away and
smash vehicles to which they are so much
attached. 
	A MARYLAND paper, in speaking of the
death of a lady, says "she lived fifty years
with her husband, and died in confident
hope of a better life."
	JUDGE (to prisoner convicted of grand lar-
ceny)—"Have you anything to offer to the
court before sentence is passed on you?"
Prisoner—"No, judge, I'm broke. I had ten
dollars when I came in here, but my law-
yer's got that ten dollars now."
	A BOSTON paper says that a homesick San
Franciscan, who is visiting his friends in
Massachusetts, finds occasional relief by hav-
ing sand squirted in his face and down his
back with a bellows, somewhat as the wind
does it in San Francisco.
	Brother P——, of Concord Presbytery,
is fond of certain stereotyped expressions,
which in the excitement of the moment, he
sometimes applies rather inappropriately.
Once, preaching a funeral sermon, while the
corpse lay before him, he excalimed: "Here,
brethren, we have before us a living witness
and a standing monument of the frailty of
human hopes!"
	A WITNESS in a divorce suit kept referring
to the wife as having a very retaliating dis-
position. "She always retaliated for every
little thing," said the witness. "Did you
ever see her husband kiss her?" asked the
wife's council. "Yes, a great many times."
"Well, what did she do on such occasions?"
"She always retaliated, sir." The wife's
retaliating disposition didn't hurt her any
with the jurors.
	"NOW THEN, madam, please look steadily
at this place on the wall," said a photo-
graphist to good old Aunt Hepzibah, when
he had put her in position and the plate in
the camera. The dear old lady looked hard
at the designated spot from her seat, then
got up and walked across the floor and mi-
nutely inspected it, and then turning to the
photographer, gently remarked, "I don't
see anything there."
	AS SOME lady visitors were going through
a penetentiary, under the escort of the Su-
perintendent, they came to a room in which
three women were sewing. "Dear me!"
one of the visitors whispered. "what vicious
looking creatures! Pray, what are they
here for?" "Because they have no other
home; this is our sitting-room, and they
are my wife and two daughters," blandly
answered the Superintendent. 
	IT IS said when the Greek Archbishop of
Syros and Tenos attended the other day in
the Senate House at Cambridge, England,
for the purpose of receiving his honorary de-
gree of L. L. D., he dropped his pocket
handkerchief, and as he stooped down to re-
cover it, one of the graduates in the gal-
lery exclaimed, "Hurrah for the Grecian
bend!" The effect was so intensely ludicrous
that the whole assemblage was convulsed 
with laughter.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
		NEW YEAR'S GREETING.

	SONG. Tune, "The Mistletoe Bough:"
The glad New Year—the glad New Year!
In varied guises it doth appear:—
Eyes of beauty and eyes of light;
Looks of gladness and love unite;
While many a form in reverence bows
To hail old Time with his fresh young spouse;
And the sorrowing heart, and the anguished tear,
All greet the glorious, glad New Year.
			CHORUS: O! The happy New Year—
					      Joyous glad New Year!

The mother meets fondly her new-born's breath,
And kindred weep o'er the bed of death:
There are sounds of mirth 'round the festal board,
With luxurious dainties in fulness stored;
While the miser, unmoved, hears the plaintive calls
Of famishing souls by his grim, cold walls;
But the blest and the wise with their bounteous cheer,
Forget not the poor on the glad New Year.
			Chorus: O! The happy New Year!etc.

The clattering hoof and the chiming bell,
Of out-door merriment boldly tell;
In sportive haste glide the skaters by,
Bowing and smiling as eye meets eye;
'Mid blithsome music and dance and song,
The young folks are speeding bright hours along;
And the laughter of little ones gleeful and clear,
Greets gaily the dawn of the glad New Year.
			Chorus: O! The happy New Year, etc.

But of all good things, of all things blest,
Thanks and praise to our God is best!
No other light can the day impart,
T' compare with the bliss of the grateful heart;
O! dearest hope, He will guide us still,
O! sweetest work to perform His will!
His Spirit and blessings and gifts are here—
O! praise ye His name on this glad New Year!
			Chorus: O! The happy New Year, etc.
										LULA.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	MUFFINS.—One quart of sour buttermilk,
one teacupful of sour cream, two eggs, one
tablespoonful of soda, a little salt, flour
enough to make quite as thick as pound
cake. Bake in muffin rings placed upon tins
in the oven, from twenty to thirty minutes,
according to the temperature of the stove.
	BEESWAX.—Melt the comb by boiling it
in water. When cool it will form a cake on
the surface, which may be taken off and re-
melted. The impurities will settle to the
bottom, and may be scraped off. If the first
melting is not sufficient, remelt until clear.
This makes the yellow wax of commerce.
	BOILED CUSTARD.—Take two table-spoon-
fuls of corn starch, one quart of milk, three
eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a small
piece of butter; heat the milk to nearly
boiling, and add the starch dissolved in a
part of the milk; then add the eggs well
beaten, with four table spoonfuls of powder-
ed sugar; let it boil up once or twice, stir-
ring it briskly, and it is done. Flavor with
lemon or vanilla to your taste.
	THE BOSTON "Journal of Chemistry"
says: "It is a well known fact that a soft-
boiled egg is more easily digested than a
hard boiled one; but the difficulty is in the
white, not in the yolk. Experiments have
shown that the gastric juice will not act
readily on the tough, tenacious structure of
firmly coagulated white of egg, even when
cut in pieces as small as peas—or as fine as
people usually chew their food—while it
acts with facility on the more brittle yolk.
To cook eggs so that they will easily be di-
gested, put them into boiling water sufficient
to cover them and let them remain ten or
fifteen minutes, keep the water nearly to
boiling point, but do not let it reach that
point. Fresh eggs will cook sooner than old
ones. By this process the yolks will be well
cooked, while the white does not become
tough and hard to digest."


HOMEMADE YEAST.—Grate four large
potatoes; while doing this, have a handful
of hops tied up in a cloth boiling in two
quarts of water. When the strength of the
hops is well boiled into the water, which
will take about twenty minutes, remove
them. Put into the water a small teacup
half-full of salt, the same amount of sugar,
and thicken with the grated potatoes. Boil
five minutes, stirring steadily. Turn into a
crock large enough to admit of rising, and
when just cool enough not to scald, stir in a
teacup-full of brewers yeast, or about a pint
of common home-made hop yeast. One tea-
cup-full of this yeast will rise two or three
loaves of bread; and it will keep two or
three weeks without souring. Bread made
from this yeast is remarkably sweet, light
and white.


[Column 1]
					[For the Exponent.
		REAL WOMEN.

	Who and what are they? Not the paint-
ed dolls and votaries of fashion, whose sole
earthly happiness seems to consist in being
elaborately dressed, and daintily perfumed,
and who so disfigure themselves, and dis-
arrange and 		up their apparel that it
is difficult to tell whether they are real or
imaginary beings: counterfeits of woman-
hood; false to nature, false to God who made
them perfect. Everything which tends to 
make them false, hypocritical and untrue,
perverts their own real nature; God made
woman beautiful, if not in face and figure,
yet the very nature of her mission on the
earth, helps to make her "a thing of beauty."
God intended her for a real comforter, a real
help-meet, what could be more charming,
more satisfying than this, were it carried
out to the very letter as he designed it
should be?
	How few there are who understand (even
in part) the importance of the position they
occupy, and for which they were specially
created, and strive to preserve their own
identity, their own individuality by being
real; it is a very simple, common-place word
yet it comprises so much.
	What man who possesses pure, manly in-
stincts, but in his heart were he left free to
choose, untrammeled by worldly tradition
and distinction, would prefer a real wo-
man to an artificial one; one who would be
content to fill a home-sphere, proud and
happy in the consciousness of being really
worthy her husband's love and esteem.
	Every day we hear it repeated, "a stylish
woman," "a magnificent woman," "a supe-
rior woman," "a literary woman," or "a
strong-minded woman." A hundred and
one adjectives are applied to the sex, but
whoever stops to think of the Real Woman
—the real living help? She who quietly,
without ostentation or parade, fulfills the
small, home-duties, cheerfully, patiently,
heroically and hopefully, unknown save to
those who constitute her own immediate
circle, and often unappreciated even there:
She has not wealth perhaps, or even a supe-
rior education, but if she has strong com-
mon sense, and an active mind, she is just
as capable of filling her mission here, and of
standing in her own real place hereafter,
as though she was a favorite of fortune or
the idol of the people.
	One of the popular writers of the present
day says "Man is what woman makes him;"
and I would kindly beg leave to add, "wo-
men are what men have made them." A
quiet, unpretending domestic woman is a
nobody nowadays, in the sight of the world.
A woman feels compelled to distinguish her-
self in some way or other, in order to elicit

[Column 2]
even the smallest share of attention from
these would be "Lords of Creation." In
the estimation of her own husband, (if she
happens to be favored with one,) she is sim-
ply a necessity in his establishment, to man-
age his house, to cook his dinner, to attend
to his wardrobe, always on hand if she is
wanted and always out of sight when not
needed. He does'nt mind kissing her occa-
sionally, when it suits him; but he never
thinks she has any thoughts of her own, any
ideas which might be developed; she must
not have even an opinion, or if she has she
must'nt express it, it is entirely out of place;
she is a subject, not a joint-partner in the
domestic firm.
	If men are really superior to women, let
them show themselves so; prove themselves
"pre-eminent," "akin to God." This is
what a real woman craves; something wor-
thy of reverence, of worship even, second
only to her Creator. But failing to find this,
she betakes herself to other things, finding
no superiority in her "Lord and master" nor
even acknowledgement of wifely duties, she
seeks for happiness through another chan-
nel easier of attainment. If a woman is
real enough to let her husband know she is
devotedly attached to him, in nine cases out
of ten, he only makes use of it to her dis-
advantage; consequently it has become gen-
eral among women to advise each other to
disguise their real feelings, afraid to ac-
knowledge them out of policy.
	Where can be the real happiness, the one-
ness? Is not this teaching women to be false
to their own hearts?
	Man, with all his boasted knowledge,
and practical skill in reading character, is
still in comparative ignorance of how wo-
men feel, or what they are. He regards
them as toys, to be picked up and cast aside
at will; very well for pastime playthings, or
for housekeepers; but to consider them real,
genuine, rational beings, is a novel idea; they
are vain, frivolous, fickle and deceitful, inca-
pable of performing any important part in
life creditably.
	I must acknowledge the real genuine ar-
ticle is hard to find, in this enlightened nine-
teenth century; but shall we succumb to
this foul aspersion upon our sex? Shall we or
be content with a false life, a counterfeit? shall
we be real women? We Latter-day Saints,
who profess to aspire to something purer,
higher, nobler and better than the world? We
are seeking to understand ourselves, our
own organization, our own individual life;
making a real use of our time, having a
real purpose in all that we do, in all that we
say, living a real life; laying up real treas-
ures in the kingdom of heaven;  not copy-
ing the fashions of the world, or their man-
ners, but improving for ourselves, guided
and directed by the best talent, judgment
and skill we possess. It is very easy to copy,
there is nothing real in that, not even a
freshness about it, it is only imitation; like
the silly school-girl, who, too idle to exer-
cise her own dormant faculties, copies from
her class-mate's slate, forgetting it will be
of no benefit to her in future; it serves her
purpose for the time being, it is sham, she
passes it off for real information.
	Let us be more cautious—let us know for
ourselves—that will make us real. We shall
then be better qualified to accomplish that
we are striving to attain to, not following a
shadow, or a phantom, but that which is
real; a real Gospel, which will elevate, re-
fine and purify, bringing us back into the
real presence, of Him whose aim and design,
in our creation was to make us real women.
				BLANCE BEACHWOOD.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 13th 1873.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		AN INTERESTING EXTRACT.
From a report of the New England Woman's Tea Party.

	SPEECH OF HENRY B. BLACKWELL.

It is written that "Faith without works is
dead." You have shown your faith by
crowding this hall to-night. I ask you to
show your works by passing a resolution
which I hold in my hand.
	You are all aware that Woman Suffrage
has been for several years an established
fact in the Territories of Wyoming and
Utah. In Wyoming, women have voted
and served on juries for four years. We
have had from year to year, the repeated
testimony of Chief Justice Howe, of Judge
Kingman, of Gov. John A. Campbell and
other prominent citizens, that the effect of
Woman Suffrage there has been "only good
and that continually." Indeed the citizens
of Laramie Co. have just signalized their
approval by electing two women as members
of the Legislature, being one third of the
six representatives to which that County is
entitled. That is equitable because women
form one-third of the population there. In
a message which Gov. Campbell has just
submitted to the Legislature of Wyoming,
he pronounces Woman Suffrage, after four
years trial, "an unqualified success." In
Utah, no evil results have followed the vo-
ting of women, nor would it be repealed by
the vote of the people of that Territory.
	A year ago the National Republican Plat-
form declared that "the republican party is
mindful of its obligations to the loyal women
of America for their noble devotion to the
cause of freedom, their admission to wider
spheres of usefulness is viewed with satis-
faction, and the honest demands of any class
of citizens for additional rights should re-
ceive respectful consideration." Yet, will it
be believed that Senator Frelinghuysen, a
Republican Senator, has actually introduced
a bill which makes it punishable by fine and
imprisonment for a woman to vote, forbids
her to serve on a jury, and even goes back
to the semi-barbarous ages and deprives
every married woman in all the Territories
of her rights of person, property, children
and earnings, and makes her a helpless de-
pendent in the house of her husband? In
express terms it subjects the women of the
Territories to the provisions of the "English
Common Law as it existed at the time of
the Declaration of Independence." But this
is not all. This same bill actually passed the
U.S. Senate last year, and would be a law,
to-day, if it had not been for the Suffrage
ladies of Massachusetts. They learned the
astounding fact, and wrote and telegraphed
to reliable Woman Suffrage Representatives,
to George F. Hoar and Benjamin F. Butler,
to A. A. Sargeant of California, to C. W.
Willard of Vermont, and half a dozen oth-
ers, and these gentlemen defeated the bill.
Now, at the very commencement of this ses-
sion, Senator Frelinghuysen again brings
forward this infamous bill, and in the name
of the Administration urges that it may be
put upon its speedy passage.
	Is this the reward that Republican Sena-
tors propose to confer on the women of
America for their noble devotion to the cause
of freedom? I can have some charity for
men who hesitate about conferring Suffrage
upon women. But I can have none for those
who seek to take it away where it is in the
full tide of successful experiment, by arbi-
trary Congressional interference with local
self-government. I call upon you therefore
to unite with me in the unanimous passage
of the following resolution:
	A verbal amendment was suggested by a

[Column 2]
gentleman on the floor of the house and one
by another in the gallery, both of which
were accepted by Mr. Blackwell.
	Lucy Stone reminded the women of New
England that here at least they had the
power to vote upon a question where the
honor and interests of Woman were in-
volved.
	The resolution was then adopted by a ring-
ing vote—only two voices being given
against it.
			RESOLUTION.
	WHEREAS, A bill has been introduced into 
the Senate of the United States, by Senator
Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, which pro-
poses to disfranchise the women of Utah and
to subject the women of all the Territories
to the provisions of the English Common
Law, as it existed before the Declaration of
Independence, therefore
	RESOLVED, That this assembly of men and
women of New England, convened in Fan-
euil Hall to celebrate the 100th anniversary
of the Boston Tea Party, hereby call upon
our Senators and Representatives in Con-
gress to secure the defeat of the bill.
	Col. Higginson congratulated the audience
that the vote was practically a unanimous
one. The two who voted against it were
very young men. Although the hour of ad-
journment had arrived, the audience would
not willingly disperse without hearing from
that brave and steadfast reformer, Stephen
S. Foster.
	Stephen S. Foster, said that the resistance
of the Colonists in 1773 was a plain violation
of the law of the land, and urged women
to resist the tyrannical laws of to-day which
deprive them of the ballot. He intended to
resist to the last the oppression resulting
from taxation without representation. He
had refused to pay taxes on his own proper-
ty, and had said to the officers of the law,
"I have paid the last cent of taxes volunta-
rily that I shall ever pay to a government
that puts its foot on the necks of my wife
and daughter."
	Mrs. Wallace sang the "Star Spangled
Banner," the assembly joining in the chorus,
after which the audience dispersed, leaving
the hall amid the inspiring strains of
"Yankee Doodle."


PRAYERS IN THE LEGISLATURE.

	The "Stockton Leader', says of the sit-
ting of the Legislature of California:
	The most interesting event in the Senate
was the debate upon the motion to elect a
Chaplain. Lane, of Santa Clara, did him-
self credit by opposing the system of pay-
ing for prayers, but "declared himself a be-
liever in the efficacy of prayer, and would 
gladly join any Senator in asking a blessing
from Almighty God. He believed that the
prayers of pious men and women which
went up in closets were of more efficacy than
prayers paid for at $5 a day." Of course
such old-fashioned Christianity as that was
too unpopular with our meek-minded Legis-
lators, and a Chaplain was duly elected at a
salary of $5 per diem.
`	We regret this, for the experiment was
well worth trying; to dispense with paid
prayers and invite the benevolent clergymen
of Sacramento, or the State at large to sup-
plicate the Throne of Grace in behalf of our
Representatives without hope of pecuniary
reward. It would have tested the zeal of
ministers who profess anxious solicitude for
the safety of the unsanctified; and beside it
might not be a waste of time—judging from
the record of Legislators in general—if the
prayers of two or three, or even a dozen holy
men should ascend daily in their behalf.


USELESS WOMEN.

	It is an unfailing theme—old as creation
—the faults of women!
	No doubt Adam harped on it rainy days,
when there was nothing to be done at gar-
dening, and perhaps he had some cause for
complaint, for every intelligent person will
admit that he was sadly taken in by that
metamorphosed rib of his.
	Now-a-days, wherever you go, you hear
the same doleful story.
	Young men are afraid to marry because
the young women are so useless. All they
are fit for is to dress up like dolls, and sit in
the parlor, and thrum the helpless piano.
	Well, who is to blame?
	Not the young ladies themselves, most
assuredly.
	Somebody says it is their mothers, but we
don't think so.
	Don't everybody know that the young
men of the present day want the young wo-
men to be useless! Don't they want them to
dress up and sit in the parlor! Don't they
praise their unsunned foreheads and their
lily hands and admire the sweep of  their 
silken trails, and the glitter of their jewel-
ry?
	The pretty talk that we hear sometimes
about girls helping their mothers in the
kitchen is beautiful on parper, but who ex-
pects anything of the kind from a young
lady?
	Baking bread, and coddling preserves, and
sweeping, and making beds are not condu-
cive to white hands and delicate complex-
ions; and when it comes to washing clothes
and scrubbing floors—why, good gracious!
that is all!
	Young men never go into kitchens to
watch their darlings make pies and black
stoves—anywhere out of novels; they don't
want to, and the girls don't want them to!
They all know that Maggie looks like any
scullion without her powder; and smut on
her face is not becoming; and sweat and
steam will take her hair out of curl; and
strawberries and peaches, however delicious
they may be to the palate, put one's finger
ends in hopeless mourning.
	No; the young man of the present day
when he calls on the young lady, expects to
sit in the softest corner of the sofa, and Mag-
gie is expected to bedressed like one of the
last fashion-plates, with at least twenty ruf-
fles on her dress, and a bustle as large as
Sallie's, or Jennie's, or Annie's, or else she
isn't stylish.
	You just listen a moment to the conversa-
tion of our young men as they smoke
their cigars in front of their club-room and
watch the ladies pass by.
	"There goes Miss B. Dused stylish-look-
ing girl; grooms her hair well; dresses in
elegant taste; plays a tip-top game of euchre,
too."
	"There comes Miss C. Drab and wine-
color; striking costume; got a handsome
foot, and not afraid to show it. By George!
a fellow needn't be ashamed to drive out
with such a stylish-looking woman!"
	When little Miss D. passes by in her plain
dress, with nobody's dingy hair on but her
own, and a hat full a year behind fashion, all
the "fellows" stare at her, and make remarks
about one's grandmother, and Noah's Ark,
and wonder Barnum isn't after her. Not
one of them says anything about the fact
that she is a sensible woman, and has spent
her life in the kitchen cooking and mending
for her father and half-a-dozen young broth-
ers and sisters. Oh, no. And yet men are
all the time crying out that they want sensi-
ble women for wives.
	Why dont they get them then?


﻿W O M A N ’ S   E X P O N E N T .


   AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
				––––
			    AGENTS.
		         Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  "	Margt. P. Young,	  "	Amanda Kimball
  "	Lily Staines,		  "	Elizabeth Davis,
  "	Sarah Smith,              "	Hampton, l6th
  "	Mary J.Thomson,			Ward,
  "	Margaret Steel,	  "	Sarah E. Smith,
		   Miss Sarah E. Russell.
		   CORRESPONDENTS.
Mrs. Laura Miner,		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
  "	A. B. Smith,		Miss Mary E. Cook.
			     AGENTS,
			Weber County,
  "	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
		   Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  "	Mary Rich, Paris.
			   Rich County
	  "	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	  "	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			  Cache County.
	  "	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	  "	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	  "	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum. 
		        Box Elder County.
	  "	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			   Davis County.
	  "	Mary Clark, Farmington, 
	  "	Aurelia Rogers,	"
	  "	Margaret Randell,Centreville,
	  "	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  "	Susan Grant,		     "
	  "	Sylvia Clark,		     "
			Salt Lake County.
	  "	–––– Higgins,West Jordan,
	  "	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
			tonwood.
			    Tooele County.
	Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
	Mrs. E. Clegg,			"	"
	Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
			     Utah County.
	  "	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  "	–––– Harrison,				   "
	  "	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
			     Juab County.
	  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi, 
	  "	Ann Pitchforth,		"
	  "	Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
	  "	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
			     Sanpete County.
	  "	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
			City,
	  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
	Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
	Mrs. Mary Thorpe, 		"
			     Millard County.
	  "	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	  "	Belinda M. Pratt,	"
	Miss Mary Callister,	"
			     Beaver County.
	Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
	  "	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
				Iron County.
	  "	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
	Miss Josephine Smith,   "
			       Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
	  "	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
		 Cedar City.
			Washington County.
	  "	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
		St. George,
	  "	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


The sensible girls of this generation will
mostly be old maids, because men go in for
the girls who giggle the most, who are dash-
ing, who sport the most false hair, and who
pad the most atrociously. And really it has
been so long since a real woman, as God made
her, has been in fashion, that we doubt if
the men of to-day would know to what spe-
cies she belonged if they should suddenly
behold her.
	Gentlemen say: "Oh, ladies ought to dress
with more simplicity!" and then they quote
Paul, etc.
	Suppose you try the sweet simplicity
dodge, young ladies, and go to a ball or a
party in the traditional scant-skirted white
muslin with blue ribbons, and your hair "au
naturel."
	You will have the pleasure of playing
wall-flower to the end of the chapter.
	If anybody thinks dress is of no conse-
quence, just let her get into a railway car
with a faded calico gown, and an old shawl,
and a last year's bonnet on. All the men
will be reading newspapers. They will be
very deeply absorbed. The papers that day
will be particularly interesting. Credit Mo-
bilier or the last murder trial farce will be
especially facinating. They will sit near
the end of the seat next the isle, and never
see you. You may stand there with your
arms full of packages, and shift from one
foot to the other, and stagger against their
backs at every lurch of the engine, until
the crack of doom, before any of these gen-
tlemen who are crying out for plainly dressed
women, will give you a seat.
	Next day you just go and dress up in
your new spring silk, with its frills and
flounces, and your stylish Dolman, and your
charming Paris hat, and your delicate gloves,
and your floating curls, and go into a rail-
way car, and half-a-dozen gentlemen will
forget that a newspaper ever existed, and
insist that they greatly prefer standing to
sitting.
	Don't we know? Haven't we tried it?
	Gentlemen, reform yourselves! If you
really desire women to be sensible, encour-
age them to be so. Have courage to be po-
lite to ladies who are not dressed in the
hight of fashion. Don't be forever talking
about style. Show the ladies by your con-
duct that you want them sensible, pure-
minded and useful, and you will have them
so, for they will do anything to please you.
					KATE THORN.


REMEMBER YOUR RELATIVES AND
			FRIENDS.

	There is an old and true saying, which runs as
follows: "No man knows what good friends are
worth until he lives without them."
	How soon some men forget this—good men, too,
who were once highly esteemed by their relatives
and friends for their loving kindness and consider-
ate ways. Men who have begun to change in this
way usually continue to grow worse, little by little,
until in the course of years they become so churl-
ish, that they are apt to disagree and quarrel with
almost everybody on the slightest provocation. In
fact, they cultivate a habit of ill-nature until it
seems as though it were impossible for them to act
in a friendly manner toward any one. In this way
such a man is pretty sure to alienate all his friends,
and at last find himself alone in the world.
	It is not only unfortunate but weak for a man to
fail to appreciate the value of good relations and
friends, and if he has fallen into the bad habit which
we have described, he should, by all means, try to
eradicate it, and always keep in mind the old saying,
"No man knows what good friends are worth until
he lives without them."—Solected.


﻿A young physician in Portland, Me., who
recently had come, as he said, from Rich-
mond,Va., attempted to poison a young lady
patient by giving her pills made of corrosive
sublimate. She was made violently ill, but
finally recovered. It is thought the physi-
cian is insane.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when cases requre.
	Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main 
Street. Office hours—10 a m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.   
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.    	je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.	
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	Books in All Branches of Literature and
Education will find at JAMES DWYER’S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.  

		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club  - 	-	-	-$18.00

15 copies, 1 year with a copy to the getter :
	up of the club	-	-	-	- 26 00

20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00

30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00

	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 2.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1874.			NO. 16.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A CHANGE of the suffrage laws of France
is proposed, by which 4,000,000 persons
would be deprived of franchise. The Ter-
ritories of the United States of America are
not alone in their struggle for freedom.
	THE FOGGY weather, of which Salt Lake
has had a few slight touches during the past
two or three weeks, seems to be making a
general business of calling all around this
winter. London has been considerably dis-
turbed over its rather protracted visits there;
and later, New York has been a scene of
gloomy dismay for a whole day, while the
rude, uninvited guest, hung boldly about
that city.
	LATE REPORTS of the progress of the pro-
jected Centennial are flattering. Philadel-
phia urges, that the affair is a national one
and deserves the hearty support of the en-
tire country; and New York cordially ac-
cedes. The Board of Finance has so far
confined its operations principly to Penn-
sylvania, and citizens and corporations of
that State have subscribed $3,500,000. The
prospects for foreign participation are very
encouraging.
	PROFESSOR ORTON is publishing an in-
teresting description of the new exploration
of the Amazon River, in the "Scientific
American.” In an account of the city of
Moyobamba, he says:—The only case of
drunkenness we have seen was that of a
priest.	*	*	It is a novel sight to see the
long procession of women, who are the water
carrriers of the city, descending and ascend-
ing the deep barrancas at eventide, with
pitchers on their heads, while the young
Lotharios lie in wait to make love to their
Rebeccas.
	IT IS a false impression which many peo-
ple labor under, that without there is an
abundance of wealth to be expended on a
home, it cannot be a pleasant, happy one.
A cheerful heart requires and will make a
cheerful home. There may not be elegant
pictures or costly drapery to look upon, nor
the dulcet sounds of instrumental music to
listen to. But there can be smiling faces
full of love and tenderness, which are the
most beautiful of all pictures; and songs of
joy and gladness, and words of sympathy
and fond endearment, which are the sweet-
est of all sounds.
	KEEP THE little ones warm. We cannot
help wondering what the conscience and
feelings of mothers must be made of, when
we see tiny little arms and knees come into
Sabbath School or meeting, half or entirely
naked, when there is snow on the ground
and biting frost in the air. What do moth-
ers who dress their children thus, think of?
Can it be possible that they never go out
themselves, to know how necessary warm,
comfortable clothing is, especially in winter?
They should venture out with bare legs and
arms, before sending their children out thus.
If young girls from l5 to 20 years of age,
have no better taste or judgment than to go
with bare or thinly covered arms and shoul-
ders, they have, themselves, to suffer the
consequences, But persons having the care
of little children, should know that it is
their duty, as far as possible, to see that they
are seasonably clothed.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	During the month of November, more
than two hundred deer have been killed in
Atlantic county, New Jersey, by gunners,
and still they are very numerous.

	A man died of starvation in the streets
of Edinburgh, Scotland, recently, and on re-
moving his clothing, two hundred and fifty
dollars were found concealed about his per-
son.

	THE EMINENT English astronomer, Mr. 
R. A. Proctor, says that the people of
America are in advance of those of Europe
in the general attention given to science.
The question is, did it require the use of a
telescope for him to discover that?

	The winds of fortune blow as variously as
the winds of heaven. In life there are many
storms, and there are few persons who be-
tween the cradle and grave are not caught
in a hurricane. Whether the result of acci-
dental circumstance or the outcome of hu-
man passions, it is certain that tempestuous
events overtake most men, and that skies
bright and serene will change their silver
light for darker, and often vengeful hues.

	At Cohoes a man died some twenty years ago,
leaving a widow and infant daughter. A large share
of property was bequeathed to the child, but in
case of her death before the age of twenty it was
to go to her cousin. She grew up delicate in health,
and as she approached the fatal limit the mother
and cousin bargained over the chances of life. Fi-
nally the cousin sold his chances of the inheritance
for $4,000, and because the girl died before she
was twenty he sued the mother to recover the en-
tire property, alleging that he was deceived as to
the state of the girl's health. The courts say that
won't do; he must stand by his bargain.

	A young girl of fourteen, living in the
town of Albion, N. Y., has proved herself
to be of heroic stuff. She and a five-year-
old brother went into the woods a few days
since, on a nutting excursion, and becoming
lost, they were compelled to remain all night
without shelter. To protect her little broth-
er, the noble girl stripped off her outer gar-
ments, and soothing him to quiet and sleep
in her arms, sat through the long and dreary
hours while her own limbs were freezing.
When found the next forenoon, she was un-
able to stand on her feet, but the physicians
hope to be able to save her life and limbs.
We hope they will succeed.

	THE BIRTH-PLACE of Professor Louis John
Rudolph Agassiz, was Motiers, Switzerland,
and his birth-day, May 28th, 1807. It is
said of him, that whether his hearers agreed
with his opinions or condemned them,
whether they were capable of grasping the
thread of his consummate arguments, or
failed to appreciate the single hearted devo-
tion with which he embraced the study of
science for itself alone; or whether, con-
scious of inferiority, they shrank from the
encounter, their sympathies were irresisti-
bly drawn towards him; and the magic of
his voice, his winning smile and the sinceri-
ty of his purpose, gained their trust and con-
fidence.


FLOWERS.

	It matters not so much how a man dies,
but how he lives.
	The rays of happiness, like those of light,
are colorless when unbroken.
	That is true plenty, not to have, but not
to want, riches.—St. Chrysostom.
	Almost the best rule of life is to be wor-
thy of one’s self.—S. P. Herron.
	Solitude shows us what we should be, so-
ciety shows us what we are.—Cecil.
	Every temptation is great or small accord-
ing as the man is.—Jeremy Taylor.
	Plato says that God has so framed His laws
that it is for the advantage of every one to
observe them.
	The bread of life is love; the salt of life
is work; the sweetness of life is poesy; the
water of life, faith.—Jameson.
	No man is born into the world whose work
is not born with him; there is always work
and tools to work with for all those who will,
and blessed are the heavy hands of all toil.
—Lowell.
	MRS. HAMMOND, who, with her husband
and three children, was lost in the Ville du
Havre, was a daughter of M. Charles Hip-
peau, an eminent French historian and an-
tiquarian.
	Confucius said: “To dwell with a good
man is like entering a house wherein are the
fragrant 'lan' flowers; after a while you may
not seem to smell the fragrance, because
your whole person has become impregnated
with the fragrance."
	Choose Good Friends.—There is nothing
which contributes more to the sweetness of
life than friendship; there is nothing which
disturbs our repose more than friends, if we
have not the discernment to choose them
well.
	Good, kind, true, holy words, dropped in
conversation, may be little thought of, but
they are like seeds of flowers or fruitful trees
falling by the wayside, borne by some birds
afar; haply, therefore,to fringe with beauty
some barren mountain side, or to make glad
some lonely wilderness.
	A poetical writer has said that some men
move through life as a band of music moves
down the street, flinging out pleasure on
every side through the air to every one, far
and near, that can listen. Some men fill the
air with their strength and sweetness, as
the orchards in October days fill the air with
ripe fruit. Some women cling to their own
houses like the honeysuckle over the door;
yet, like it, fill all the region with the subtle
fragrance of their goodness. How great a
bounty and blessing it is so to hold the roy-
al gifts of the soul that they shall be music
to some, fragrance to others, and life to all!
It would be no unworthy thing to live for,
to make the power which we have within
us the breath of other men’s joys; to fill the
atmosphere which they stand in with a
brightness which they cannot create for
themselves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


﻿APOSTROPHE TO JERUSALEM.

	Thou City with a cherished name—
		A name in garlands drest
	Adorned with ancient sacred fame
		As City of the blest.
	
	Thy rulers once were mighty men—
		Thy sons renown’d in war:
	Thy smiles were sought and courted then
		By people from afar.
	
	A holy Temple, built as God
		Directed it should be;
	In which His glory shone abroad,
		With heav’nly majesty;
	
	Was great adornment to thy place,
		And lustre to thy name;
	With much of grandeur,wealth and grace,
		To magnify thy fame.
	
	The Lord was with thee then, and deign,d,
		In speech well understood,
	Through prophets, by His wisdom trained,
		To counsel for thy good.
	
	Attracted by illustrious fame,
		As by a ruling star,
	To study wisdom, people came
		From other climes afar.
	
	Thine then, a chosen, favor’d land,
		Was crowned with plenty’s smile; 
	The mountains dropp’d down fatness,and
		The hillsides, wine and oil.
	
	And thou wert like a golden gem
		Upon a nation’s brow.
	Jerusalem, Jerusalem,
		Alas! What art thou now?
	
	Degraded, and on every hand.
		From wisdom all estrang’d:
	Thy glory has departed! and
		All, but thy name, is chang’d.
	
	From God withdrawn—by Him forsook—
		To all intents depraved:
	Beneath the Turkish iron yoke
		Thou long hast been enslaved.

	Divested of all heav’nly rites,
		Thy crest has fallen low:
	Around thy walls are squalid sights
		Of beggary and woe.

	Thy streets are narrow, filthy lanes,
		Offensive to the breath;
	Thy pools appear like sewer drains
		That breed disease and death.

	No Temple, now that God design’d—
		No church by Him approved—
	No prophet to reveal His mind,
		By inspiration moved.

	Where once a royal Banner spread,
		The Crescent’s waving now.
	A sable wreath is on thy head, 
		And blood upon thy brow.

	The curse of God thy changes wrought,
		Thro’ crimes the Jews have done, 
	When they His counsels set at nought,
		And crucified His Son.

	Since then, has retribution’s hand
		Put forth its fearful skill
	Upon thy structures and thy land,
		A destiny to fill.

	Thy children, Seed of Israel
		Of God’s “peculiar care,”
	On whom the weight of judgment fell,
		Are scattered everywhere.
		*	*	*	*	*	*	
	Thy sun has not forever set—
		God has a great design,
	And will fulfil his purpose yet.
		Concerning Palestine.

	Th’ appointed time will surely come;
		According to His will,
	For God, with “faithful Abraham,” 
		His cov’nants to fulfil.

	Thyself redeem’d from deep disgrace
		Of filth and negligence;
	These uncouth structures shall give place 
		To taste and elegance.

	Thy walls shall be of precious stones—
		Thy gates of richest pearl;
	And on thy tow’ring battlements,
		Shall sacred banners furl.

	The Seed of Jacob, then shall dwell
		In bold security:
	More than the former glory, shall
		Thy latter glory be.
							ELIZA R. SNOW.
Jerusaiem, Palestine, March 4, 1873.


﻿R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Ann Logan writes from Manti, San-
pete County, that the Society of sisters in
that place is a very good and energetic one,
willing and anxious to do all they can to help
in every righteous work. Money is very
scarse there, times quite favorable in other
respects.
	In a report from Mrs, S. Gibson, of the
Sugar House Ward, S. L. City, we find the
following intelligence:—Mrs. Ellen Tofield
Stringham, who has been a faithful teacher
in this Society, departed this life on the 22nd
of December, 1873. She was a native of
Buckinghamshire, England, born Novem-
ber 26th, 1821; emigrated to Utah in the
hand cart company, in 1856. Her near asso-
ciates and familiar acquaintances realize
that in her, they have lost, for a time, a true
friend, one who was always ready to give a
good word of counsel, or to assist those who
were in need of assistance.
	On Saturday, Jan. 3rd 1874, the General
Retrenchment Meeting, held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, was but sparsely at-
tended, owing to the very unfavorable state
of the weather. Those present, however,
enjoyed the spirit of unity, and much good
feeling was manifested. Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, who, in the absence of
President Mrs, M. I. Horne, presided over
the meeting, said to the sisters that she
thought of late, there was too great lack of
punctuality among them. Their meetings
were appointed at 2 o’clock, not half past 2,
and they should each one make it a point to
be there at the appointed time.
	A report from Harrisville, informs us that
at a late meeting of the Society, several la-
dies from Salt Lake City and other places
were present as visitors, and that much good
was realized from their teachings. The
health of the President, Mrs. Melissa Shirt-
liff, we regret to learn is poor. The Society
generally, is alive to a sense of its many du-
ties. Secretary, Mrs. Mary E. Taylor.
	The 138th meeting of the Relief Society
of Bountiful, Davis Co., is reported by Mrs.
Jane C. Hale, the Assistant Secretary. Miss
Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D. Young and
others from Salt Lake City, were present,
and a very interesting meeting was held by
the Society, of which Mrs. E. H. Barlow is
President, and Mrs. Mary Carter Secretary.
	On the afternoon of Thursday,the 8th inst.,
an annual meeting of the 8th Ward Relief
Society, was held in the Ward meeting
house, Pres. Mrs. Mary A. Leaver presiding.
Bishop Sheets and his counselors favored
the sisters with their presence. Miss E. R.
Snow Mrs. Phebe Woodruff and Mrs. L.
Greene Richards were also present by es-
pecial invitation. The meeting was a pleas-
ant and profitable one, and after its close,the
company was served to a very suitable and
well prepared supper.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	Cedar City, Iron Co., Dec, 28th 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT,—
	DEAR SISTER:
	Though personally unknown to you, I feel
as if we were old acquaintances. Your val-
uable paper comes as a friend, and is wel-
comed as such; I take great pleasure in read-
ing it, and try to carry out the good instruc-
tions contained therein.
	The sisters throughout the Territory,ought
to feel grateful that we have the privilege
of communicating with, and expressing our


feelings to each other, through its columns,
How many have formed friendships in days
gone by, whose paths in life have widely
separated, and like Martha of old, they are
“troubled about many things," therefore can-
not find time to correspond with all; and
what a comfort for such to learn of each
other occasionally through the paper. Accept
my kind regards, and heart-felt wishes for
the onward progress of the EXPONENT.
				  MARY ANNE LUNT.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	After a struggle between "I cant," and
"I'll try," I conclude that I can willingly
bear my testimony to the truth of the work
in which we are engaged; that the Gospel of
Jesus Christ is all truth and no error, and
that polygamy is one of its true principles,
which with the rest is necessary for the sal-
vation and exaltation of men and women,
both here in this life, and in that life which
is to come. I can also testify, that the wo-
men of Utah are not the down-trodden vas-
sals which many have believed them to be;
but that they are free to believe the Gospel
or not, free to embrace all of its principles
or a part of them, or none at all, free to live
in Utah or to go out of it, free to

	“Choose their lives and what they'll be!
	For this eternal truth is given,
	That God will force no man to heaven.”

—Nor woman either.
			     AMELIA GOLDSBROUGH.


HARRISVILLE, January 9th 1874.
	I wish to write a few words,to mingle my
voice with those of my sisters. I feel that
we ought to be the most thankful women in
the world. Where else do women have the
rights and blessings that we enjoy? We have
the privilege of associating with the Saints
of God, and of living in the Order of Celes-
tial marriage, which gives us the privilege
of marrying the men of our choice, also of
marrying good men; which I esteem among
the greatest of all blessings. I have lived
in polygamy twenty years, as the second
wife; and have nine chiidren and one grand-
child born and have never for a moment re-
gretted my choice. And I am thankful that
the women of the Saints have the opportu-
nity offered them of speaking for themselves,
through the columns of the EXPONENT.
This I regard as a great advantage and ever
pray that we may justly appreciate and wise-
ly use the benefits afforded us.
				     MARY E. TAYLOR.


IN PERU, business is fairly at a stand still.
Exchange is not to be had on any terms, the
harbors are deserted and the government
has forbidden the exportation of coin. The
financial epidemic has struck heavily there.

	TRUST CHILDREN.—Never accuse a child
of a fault unless you are certain he commit-
ted it. Children should not be treated with
suspicion. We should act toward them in
in this matter as we feel we ought to act to-
ward others, only with greater tenderness—
not less, as is usually done. We should al-
ways put the best construction possible upon
their conduct; that is, unless you are sure a
child is telling a lie, and can prove it, do not
show the least hesitation to believe what he
says. Far better that you should be deceiv-
ed, than run the risk of showing a truthful
child you do not trust him. Your simple
trust may make a lying child truthful. Your
doubt of his truthfulness may make a truth-
ful child a liar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OPENING ADDRESS.

DELIVERED BY MASTER HEBER CUMMINGS
AT THE 14TH WARD NEW YEAR'S PIC-NIC.

	To our Parents, Friends, Patrons of our
Sunday School and the Priesthood of our
Ward: we bid you a hearty welcome to this
our Jubilee.
	We have this day entered upon the com-
mencement of a New Year. And as we are
taught that we are living in the latter days,
when mighty events are to succeed each
other in rapid succession; the great purposes
of the Almighty to be accomplished; and
all the unfulfilled prophecies of past ages to
be fulfilled; we hope and trust that this may
be a year to which we may all look back, in
the future, with joy, pride and thanksgiv-
ing. With joy that the kingdom of God is
increasing and growing on every side, and
in every good thing. With pride that we
have each one kept the commandments of
God, and performed all faithfully our part,
in the great work of life. And with thanks-
giving to our Heavenly Father who has per-
mitted us to live in this dispensation, to take
part in his mighty work, and for preserving
us from our enemies, and from the evils that
surround us on every side.
	To my young friends and companions I
would say: as time rolls swiftly on, let us
try to fit and prepare ourselves, by diligence
and obedience for the great work that lies
before us; let us seek to emulate the noble
examples of those who have grown gray in
planting the principles of truth firmly upon
the earth, and who, with the blessings of
God, have made us what we are to-day, no-
ble sons of noble sires. Let us follow in
their footsteps, that in good time we may
be qualified to take the burden from their
shoulders, and carry on the good work they
have so nobly begun. This is the line of
our duty: our parents pray for it. Our lead-
ers expect it. Our Heavenly Father de-
mands it as the price of our salvation and
exaltation. God grant that their prayers,
expectations and demands be not in vain.
	To the Daughters of Zion, our Sisters, we
would say: Let us be united in this great
work, and move side by side in all the great
reforms of the latter days. Let us put from
us, all that vanity and pride of wealth, dress,
and station, that is lurking around, and
striving to fasten itself upon us: Let us
hurl from us those hideous fashions, that so
terribly deform and disfigure the human
form divine; as something that is degrading
and corrupting. Let us remember who, and
what we are. Let us try to realize our true
position—that we are the children of the
chosen people of God, princes and princesses
of the royal blood of Joseph.
	All honor to the Priesthood, who have
taught, and are still teaching us the princi-
ples of truth and righteousness: Honor to
our teachers who labor for our well being,
and happiness: Honor to our parents who
seek to train us up in the paths that lead to
life and salvation.
	Again; we, the children here assembled
bid you welcome; and through your humble
servant, a Happy New Year.

		YOUNG LADIES' ADDRESS.

DELIVERED BY MISS MATTIE J. HORNE.

	We the Daughters of Zion, also bid you
welcome. 
	We heartily coincide with our brothers
in those feelings of gratitude to our Heav-
enly Father and his Holy Priesthood, for
our glorious privileges, our surroundings,
and our prospects for the future. 
	We desire in no way to come short of our
brothers in the discharge of those duties
which are required of us. We wish to share
in their trials, tribulations and sacrifices, if
by so doing we can help to establish correct
principles, and secure to ourselves an exal-
tation in the kingdom of our God.
	Although young, we are well aware that
we are surrounded by many influences that
would tend to enslave us and lead us to for-
get our religion and our God: and while we
admit that some few are led to forget what
is due from the children of promise, and
suffer themselves to be led and controlled by
the spirit of the world, yet we have faith in
our sisters. We know the hearts of a large
majority are right before God: and that they
will live to realize and enjoy the many bless-
ings pronounced upon their heads.
	We look to our brothers for counsel, pro-
tection, and above all, for examples. And
would say to them as they have said to us,
"Let us work side by side in all the great
reforms of the last days."
	And further, let us put from us those evil
practices that have lately been introduced
into our midst: Let us not be found hang-
ing around drinking shops, breathing the
foul air of drunkards: Let us try to feel that
our presence is not needed, to grace any
billiard or other gambling saloon: Let us not
be guilty of promenading our beautiful
streets, behind ten cents worth of filthy to-
bacco: Let us remember that the divine gift
of language was not conferred that we might
speak disrespectfully of the Giver: Let it
not be said that we were seen wending our
way over Jordan, with a gun upon our
shoulder, or to some field of ice with our
skates under our arm, on the day which
God has said we should remember and keep
holy.
	But let us frown down EVERY THING, in-
troduced into our midst, that is interdicted
by our parents and leaders, that has a de-
basing tendency, and seek for, and practice
every thing that tends to exalt and ennoble
us in the scale of being.
	Brothers, lead out! we are with you, heart
and hand in every thing that will promote
the welfare of Zion.
	We love the principles of the Gospel; we
love our Mountain Home; we are thankful
to our Heavenly Father for our peace and
prosperity, and feel to exclaim with Sister
E.R. Snow in one of her beautiful poems:—
	We thank Thee for these mountain vales,
	Where life abounds, and peace prevails;
	The plenteous products of the land
	Declare the bounty of Thy hand.

	We'll sing hosannas unto Thee,
	Whose power and wisdom made us free,
	Till congregated worlds resound
	Thy praise to all creations round.


[Column 1]		LOCAL NOTES.

	ALLOW US TO COMMEND
The gentlemanly officials of the Utah South-
ern Rail Road. They gratuitously landed
"old Santa" in the 15th Ward of this city,
laden with four tons of coal to be distribu-
ted among the poor of the Ward. May the
frost king never block the wheels on their
track.
	THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY
For Utah Territory met in the City Hall of
this city, on Monday the 12th inst., at 2 P M.
		YOUR REPORTER
Was kindly received, and soon found her-
self pleasantly located in the House of Rep-
resentatives, surrounded by a goodly por-
tion of what is understood to be the choic-
est intellect of the Territory.

[Column 2]
	A TEMPORARY ORGANIZATION
Was effected by calling Mr. Rockwood to
the chair, and electing Mr. R. L. Campbell
Clerk pro tem. A committee on credentials,
reported what gentlemen were entitled to
seats in the House; namely:
	Beaver and Piute Counties, John R. Mur-
dock.
	Box Elder County, Jonathan C. Wright.
	Cache and Rich Counties, Marriner W.
Merrill, John Nebeker.
	Davis and Morgan Counties, William R.
Smith, Willard G. Smith.
	Iron County, Silas S. Smith.
	Juab County, Joel Grover.
	Kane and Washington Counties, Lorenzo
W. Roundy.
	Millard County, Edward Partridge.
	Salt Lake County, Orson Pratt, John Tay-
lor, A. P. Rockwood, S. A. Mann, B. Young,
Jr., Joseph F. Smith.
	Sanpete and Sevier Counties, William
Morrison, George Peacock.
	Summit County, W. W. Cluff.
	Tooele County, John Rowberry.
	Utah County, Albert K. Thurber, William
B. Pace, George Halliday.
	Wasatch County, Abram Hatch.
	Weber County, Franklin D. Richards,
Lorin Farr.
	THE HON. SECRETARY BLACK
Administered the oath of office to the mem-
bers elect, after which a permanent organi-
zation was effected by elections being made
as follows:
	Speaker of the House, Hon. Orson Pratt.
	Chief Clerk, Robert L. Campbell.
	Assistant Clerk, Richard J. Taylor.
	Enrolling Clerk, Joan M. Campbell.
	Engrossing Clerk, E. W. East.
	Sergeant-at-arms, Milando Pratt,
	Door-keeper, Samuel H. B. Smith.
	Messenger, Albert C. Young.
	Watchman, John Smith.
				(TO US,
An interesting feature in the above organi-
zation, was the administering of the oath
of office—with others—to the enrolling clerk,
Miss Joan M. Campbell. We trust, and
doubt not, that she will honor the sacred
trust confided to her.)
		A COMMITTEE,
Consisting of Messrs Mann, Rockwood and
Farr, was appointed to wait upon his Excel-
lency, Governor Woods, and notify him that
the House was organized and ready for his
message, or any communication that he
might choose to offer.
		A LITTLE PARLEYING
On the subject of a Chaplain, (Congress hav-
ing annuled that office) and Zebedee Coltrin
was appointed, to be paid from the treasury
of the Territory.
			MR. MANN
Announced that the Committee appointed
had conferred with his Excellency, the Gov-
ernor, who would be pleased to communi-
cate his Message to the joint assembly, at 11
o'clock A. M., on Tuesday.
			A MESSAGE
Was sent to the Council, inviting its Hon.
Members to meet with the House on Tues-
day at the appointed hour, to receive the
Governor's Message.
			AN INVITATION
To attend the Salt Lake Theatre on Tuesday
evening was received by the Members of
the House. (One gentleman quietly insin-
uated that he did not care to go if all the
ladies were to be left out in the cold.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

			L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a.m., and from 2 to 3 p.m. on Mondays and
Fridays. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah. 

			SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	Cherry trees are in bloom on the Pacific
slope....A plastic cast of Prof. Agassiz' face
was taken by Preston Powers....Miss Antoi-
nette Sterling, an American girl, is singing
in London, it is said with great success......
A paper lately started in New York, devoted
to the interests of the Patrons of Husband-
ry, bears the name and motto of "The
Scythe," "to mow down monopoly and ex-
tortion"......Iowa City in order to invest in
a theatre, has sold its public library at auc-
tion......A Derby, Conn., farmer has had the
good fortune to have a lead mine discovered
on his farm......California produced 1,000
bales of cotton last year........A brother of
Mrs. President Grant, Judge Louis Dent, is
seriously ill...A nephew of Victor Emman-
uel, the Duke of Genoa, lately arrived in
San Fransisco......A list of the creditors of
Jay Cooke & Co., has been published...Short-
ly before his death, Prof. Agassiz wrote to
Newfoundland to gain full particulars about
a "devil-fish," which but recently appeared
on that coast......New York city is to have a
new theatre to be known as the "Bucking-
ham," which will cover 13,342 square feet
......The Common Council of Poughkeepsie,
N. Y., is composed, with a single exception,
of temperance men.....Since 1871, nearly
2,500 enlisted men have deserted from their
regiments in the Pacific States and Territo-
ries......Wheat sells for less, by 33 percent.,
than potatoes, bushel for bushel, in Moline,
Ill......The United States Consul at Copen-
hagen, Hon, G. W. Griffin, has been elected
Fellow of the Denmark Royal Association of
Northern Antiquities...It is reported that a
Vicksburg girl has gone crazy because her fa-
ther would not let her appear in a certain per-
formance on the stage.....Seth Adams who
died recently in Boston, left an estate valued
at 1,700,000.....An ear of corn with 1,816
grains has been produced in Franklin town-
ship, Pennsylvania......A distemper among
cats is prevalent in Lawrence, Massachusetts
......The law requiring the printing of pub-
lic documents for general distribution, has
been repealed by the Senate......Agassiz'
physicians are said to be greatly puzzled over
the nature of his disease......There is a pet-
rified hog in Dunbarton, N. H., that died
and was buried 15 years ago......The schools
of St. Louis are giving great satisfaction
with the Kindergarten system......Raleigh,
N. C., has no public school......Again the
Kentucky Legislature is considering a con-
stitutional convention......Bishops in Ger-
many are hereafter required to swear alle-
giance to the State......During the year of
1873, $4,493,000 have been given or pledged
to American colleges....In the public schools
of Tennessee, there are 178,076 pupils, of
whom 24,325 are colored.....Caleb Cushing
is to address the survivors of the Mexican 
War at Washington to-day, Jan. 15th.....Mr.
Hatch, Republican Senator from Hale Co.,
has been expelled from the Alabama Senate.


For the EXPONENT.
			PRAYER.

	Prayer is the sweet incense of the soul.
It lends a gentle influence to the mind; en-
wraps our thoughts, to draw them away from
the corruptible things of time and mortality;
refines the sensitive part of our beings;
leads us to higher qualities; and makes us
aspire to heavenly things. It enables us to
keep in store, treasures of sacred knowledge.
The child who is early taught to pray, in
riper years, cannot easily be led to follow
after vice, or become wicked. In its re-
flective moments, it yearns to offer a simple


prayer to our Father in Heaven for some
favor or implore forgiveness for an error
committed in an unguarded moment. Can
that child, or person go to ruin, who offers
up daily prayer in meekness and sincerity,
or will the Angels of righteousness forsake
such? Prayer brings blessings that cannot
be obtained without it, and is answered by
the bestowal of faith, wisdom, prudence and
divine love with a fulness of joy. How
necessary then, that mothers in Israel teach
their children to pray; that while they are
innocent, and their minds free from guile,
impressions may be made, that cannot be
obliterated. We should not let anything
lay in our way, to hinder us from the dis-
charge of these obligations which we owe to
our children. To instruct them in the
principles of eternal truth, and in setting
examples before them, worthy to be imita-
ted. We should not neglect to pray before
our children, and to call on them to pray,
vocally, and in secret. If they do not un-
derstand, we can teach them in simple lan-
guage, to express a prayer, like that of our
Savior. He taught His disciples, saying,
"Our Father who art in heaven." He gave
them this pattern, that they might call upon
the Father, in simplicity and truth, and
said "in like manner pray ye."		MARY.
	SALT LAKE CITY.


[Column 1]
		TIME AND LABOR.

	Hours, days and years are given to all people
much the same, but for many different purposes.
It would not do for all to engage in the same
pursuits; there must be a great variety of occu-
pations to satisfy all the different wants and
tastes of mankind; and in the wise providences
of creation, it is not designed that any should
be idlers. As all must live and all consume, all
must necessarily be provided for in some way;
and it is but mete that each one should share
in the vast amount of labor which must be per-
formed upon the earth, in order that its inhab-
itants may be fed, clothed and sheltered.
	And yet we often see strong, intellectual, fine
looking men loitering about street corners, or
lounging in stores and shops, as seemingly un-
concerned as if they had been placed upon the
earth for no particular purpose, with nothing
in the world to do. We find healthy, sprightly
appearing women, possessed of abundance of
intelligence and ability, promenading the side-
walks, or sitting at ease, with no apparent aim
in life—as though nothing could be required at
their hands but to laugh and fritter the golden
hours away. And such persons nearly always
contrive to be ostentatiously dressed, which
sometimes leads thinking people to try to un-
derstand how they manage; or how they would
get along when, in the events of fortune, they
may chance to be left to their own resources.
And next, to wonder what account they will
render to God for the precious time and gifts he

[Column 2]
so graciously lends them; and which they in
no worthy manner are bringing into use.
	To every one is given talents of some kind,
to be improved, and with which to accomplish
good to self and for others. We have said that
different vocations must necessarily be followed
by different people. And for this cause are va-
rying fancies, desires and abilities given to dif-
ferent individuals.
	But whatever their daily pursuits may be, it
is surely the right and duty of all to seek to im-
prove the mental faculties, to increase in intel-
ligence and develop thought, thus producing a
multiplicity of blessings in nameless ways.
	It cannot be justly required of any one, even
a servant to labor continuously, until all the
powers are exhausted, and there remains no
time or inclination to seek and grasp the
brightening influence and lasting benefits ac-
cruing from intelligent reflection, or from the
study of books and nature in all their varied
phases. We believe almost as little in constant
drudgery as in allowing time to pass away un-
improved. For although the latter course can
accomplish no good, there is often much harm
done by the pursuance of the former.
	Unremitting hard work, with little or no at-
tention to self culture, will soon bring husband
and wife to feel that they are mere partners in
some business transaction, instead of being
what they should be, and that which they have
covenanted to be to each other.
	The Spirit of God, the spirit of love and
union cannot stay in rich abundance, where all
is hurry-scurry, and work, work, work! with
no time devoted to quiet  thoughtful repose, or
to prayer and praise.
	It requires wisdom, we know, to be able to
discriminate properly between the portion of
time  which should be spent in work, and those
portions which should be given to study, recrea-
tion and rest. But it is a subject of which all
should endeavor to gain a proper understand-
ing. Were this done, and the knowledge, when
obtained, put into useful practice by the masses
of the people, great reforms would be brought
about in regard to time and labor.


APPRECIATIVE.

	In a large meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association, held
in the 14th Ward Hall, Salt Lake City, Jan. 17,
1874, the following resolutions were read and
unanimously accepted.
	Resolved—That we, ladies of Utah, recognize
the movements of Woman State and City As-
sociations, in memorializing Congress in be-
half of Territorial Woman Suffrage, and in op-
posing certain disgraceful suicidal bills, now
before Congress, as efforts in the right direc-
tion, and in consonance with the true spirit of
liberty, American Republicanism, and, of so-
cial and national progress.
	Resolved—That we, in meeting assembled,
unitedly express our true appleciation of their
labors of love; with thanks to the ladies of
Boston and Massachusetts, New York, Indian-
apolis, St. Louis, Missouri, and Santa Clara
Cal. Woman's Suffrage Associations—also every
other organization, and all individuals that
have exercised an influence to sustain us in our
rights as American citizens—for the interest
manifested in support of those inalienable
privileges guaranteed by our sacred Constitu-
tion, which are now being threatened with ex-
tinction, through political piracy.
	Resolved—that we also give an expression of
our sympathies with our sisters in the States—
sincerely hoping and trusting that ere long,
their efforts in their own behalf will be crown-


ed with the right of franchise in which they
are nobly aiming to sustain us.
	Resolved—That copies of the foregoing Reso-
lutions be sent to WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Desert
News and Salt Lake Herald.
			MRS. MARY I. HORNE, PRES.
	MISS ANNIE SMITH, SEC.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


COMMENTS.

	A lady editor, in one of the North-western
States, after visiting the Legislative Hall, re-
ports that the deportment of the members of
the Assembly is very ungentlemanly. We are
pleased and gratified, that we are able to re-
port quite the reverse concerning the Legisla-
tive Assembly of Utah. Nowhere, certainly,
could a more complete body of real gentleman
be found than that which composes the above
named assembly. When we visited the Hall,
we marked with pleasure, the peculiar air of
neatness, good taste and good order with which
everything was arranged. Not the slightest
disagreeable perfume, as of tobacco smoke, or
the appearance of anything which might prove
offensive to the most refined and delicate sense,
were perceptible, so far as we were able to no-
tice. And in the transacting of public busi-
ness, most agreeable and obliging dispositions
were manifested. We can safely say that no
country in Utah has reason to be ashamed of
its representative, or representatives.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A WRITER from Bountiful, Davis Co., who
subscribes herself "Your true friend, though a
'Gentile,'" fails to give us her name private-
ly—as custom and the rights of the press de-
mand; which we regret, as her communication
is well worth publishing.
	MISS SARAH E. Russel, who is spending the
winter with friends in Richmond, Ray Co.,
Missouri, writes us, privately, from that place.
Many sincere friends in this city, will be
gratified to learn that this very estimable young
lady is in good health, and enjoying a pleasant
visit among old associates.
	THE NEW Year's picnic in the 14th Ward of
this city, was a very pleasing affair. About
two hundred and fifty juveniles belonging to the
Ward, were first seated at tables, and partook
of a repast, in every way suitable to the occa-
sion—the adults having by unanimous voice,
given the little folks the precedence for the day.
After the children, their parents, Sabbath
School Teachers and friends were feasted. The
company in all, amounted to something over
four hundred. Especial care was taken by the
committee of arrangements, that the poor of
the Ward should be liberally provided for.
Notwithstanding the large number of children
present, the best of order was preserved during
the entire proceedings of the day and evening;
which consisted of music and singing, addresses,
social conversation, feasting and dancing. The
committee was deserving of much credit, for
their praiseworthy efforts, which were re-
warded with success. Mr Heber Cummings
and Miss Mattie Horne also merit especial no-
tice for the excellent manner in which they re-
cited the Young Gentleman's and Young La-
dies' addresses, written for the occasion by the
Superintendent of the Ward Sabbath School,
Bro. George H. Taylor, and given in another
column of the present issue of the EXPONENT.
	ON THE second Monday in February, the Mu-
niciple officers for this city will be elected.
	THE RELIEF Society of the 14th Ward will
give a Select party on Friday evening, the 23rd


inst., in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms. Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. S. B. Wilkin-
son, Mrs. J. C. Richardson, Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and Mrs. E. J. Stevenson constitute the Com-
mittee of Arrangements, and no doubt the en-
tertainment will be one of the best and most
enjoyable of the season. We wish the ladies
perfect success, and return thanks for their kind
invitation extended to us.
	WE ARE pleased to offer grateful acknowl-
edgements, not only in our own name, but also
in behalf of our sisters who were specified in a
motion of Mr. L. E. Harrington, member of
the Legislative Council, by which the freedom
of the Council Chamber has been extended to
leading representative ladies of this city. We
consider this act of the Council very courteous,
and deserving sincere thanks.


[For the EXPONENT
		A WORD FOR MOTHERS.

	I made the remark last fall, to a member
of our family, "Would it not be better for
Johnny to let the peaches alone till they are
ripe? then we all can have the good of
them." She replied, "If he does not pick 
them the neighbor's boys will; for ever since
the apricots began to ripen, they have run
through the orchard, climbed the trees, and
pelted each other with the fruit."
	Now I could not help reflecting—why is
this? Do we mothers teach our children
as we ought? Do we teach them to respect
our neighbor's rights? And that it is just
as wrong to trespass on a neighbor's prem-
ises, as it is to go into his house; take away
or destroy anything therein? Do we incul-
cate the strictest principles of honesty in
our children, by precept and example? (For
without example precept is of little avail.)
Do we watch diligently the dispositions and
tendencies of our children, and the moment
we see anything wrong, endeavor, by loving
words to correct that error; impressing on
their young and tender minds, the awful
consequences which will result in after life,
if these evil tendencies are suffered to go
unchecked?
	Many will say—"Oh, they will know bet-
ter when they grow older." I tell you they
will not, unless you teach them better! And
we cannot begin too soon to encourage in
them the love of truth and honesty. How
pleasing and gratifying it is to a mother, to
know that she can depend on the word of
her child, that he will tell the truth, even
though that truth may argue against him-
self. Every intelligent mother wishes her
children to command, by their upright con-
duct, the respect of all good people; and this
is only to be attained by the strict obser-
vance of these principles of right.
	I remember when I was very young, while
going home through the market, of seeing
by a stall, a hamper of peas, (the first of the
season.) While standing, looking at them
very wishfully, I saw a little girl take a
handful unnoticed by the woman who owned
the stall. So I thought, surely I may take
one. When I got home, father asked me
where I got it, I told him, and he led me by
the hand, right back to the stall, and made
me on my knees ask the woman's pardon for
stealing. Then he led me into the quiet
church-yard, and there portrayed to me in
vivid language the terrible enormity of be-
ing a thief! Making me realize that it was
his duty to correct me, and that I would
thank him for it when I grew older. He re-
cited to me the dreadful incident of a young
man who was condemned to be hung, and
who, when taken to the gallows, asked to
see his mother. When she came close to


him he bit off her ear. Of course the by-
standers were horrified at such unnatural
conduct, but he told them she had never
taught him not to steal, or he would never
have come to such a dreadful end. Perhaps
some may think this was a great ado about
a little, but it was a life long lesson to me,
and how infinitely better than a hasty whip-
ping would have been. No doubt many who
were brought up by pious parents can recol-
lect receiving similar teachings. And shall
we as mothers in Zion be behind our secta-
rian parents? No verily! for our duty to our
children, to our God, and to mankind de-
mands our utmost diligence in this respect.
S. L. City, Jan. 11th, 1874. A. A. P.


HOME FEELING.
			—
	O ye fathers and mothers who have sons
and daughters growing up around you, do you
ever think of your responsibility in this re-
gard—your responsibility for keeping alive
the home sentiment in the hearts of your
children? Within the limits of your means,
remember that the obligation rests on you
to make their home the pleasantest place on
this rolling earth; to make the word“home”
for them the synonym for “happiness.” I
would not have you import the vices of the
outside world into your homes for any pur-
pose; but I would have you go to the utmost
verge of what is moral, to provide at home
those things which entice young and grow-
ing persons away from home. Let me assure
you that you had better spend your money
in doing this than in ostentation or luxury,
and far, far better spend it thus, than to
amass a fortune for your children to squan-
der in the future. And not only as regards
amusements, but also comfort and refinement,
for children have a keen appreciation for
these things—this is much the best policy.
Don’t send your boy to school in illfitting
garments, collar all awry and chafing his
neck, buttons missing and shoes down at the
heel, don’t make a warehouse or clothes-press
of his room. Don't feed him on sour bread,
and tough meat, and burnt coffee. Don,t let
noise and dissension and misrule spoil the
hours he spends at home. Don’t do any of
these things if you can possibly avoid it,
especially don’t do them for the pur-
pose of laying up money for his future
use. The richest legacy you can leave
him is a life-long inextinguishable and fra-
grant recollection of his home, when time
and death have forever dissolved the en-
chantment. Give him that, and he will, in
the strength of it, make his own way in the
world; but let his recollections of home be
repulsive, and the fortune you may leave
him will be a poor compensation for the loss
of that tenderness of heart and purity of
life which not only a pleasant home, but the
memory of one, would have secured. Re-
member this, too, that, while he will never
feel grateful for your money when once you
are under ground, he will go to your green
grave and bless your very ashes for that
sanctuary of quiet, comfort and refinement
into which you may, if you possess the
means, transform your home.
							R. N. Y.


In middle life we hesitate to sit in judg-
ment upon any one; we read slowly and
reverently the untranslated scripture of an-
others heart; but in youth we are confident,
and assign motives and intentions as glibly
as children pretend to read nursery tales
which they have learned by rote.—Celia Bur-
leigh.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT

		DAUGHTERS OF ZION.

Daughters of Zion, up, up and awake
From the slumbers that bind you, their strong fetters
	break!
Up, trim your lamps quickly, and let your light shine
Amid earth's deep darkness with splendor divine.

Let the power of the Gospel, life's dross all consume,
That its precious sweet truth in your souls may have
	room:
And work—for the Harvest is ripe for the floor,
And the storms of destruction are nigh at the door.

There is famine on earth for the pure "bread of life,"
And its children are sick of the pain and the strife;
But they wander in darkness, the blind lead the blind,
And evil's strong fetters its weak victims bind.

Oh daughters of Zion! there's a great work to do—
Will you bear a brave part with the good and the true?
Will you help to redeem this fair earth from sin,
And from its deep sorrows her frail children win?

Let this be your study, that Zion be pure,
That no evil passions her light may obscure;
That the Word may go forth with great power and might
And her people be strong in the battle for right.

Think not to sit down by the wayside to rest,
'Till the haven is won in the land of the blest;
But keep your lamps bright as you journey along—
Each may guide some poor soul in the wandering throng.
										HOPE.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Since obedience of the right kind is not the mere
outward acknowledgment of superior power, but
must arise from the heart, we must make it our
study to win and keep the respect, confidence, and
love of our charge. We have great help here in
the natural relation existing between parent and
child, and which, ordained of God, shows His will
in this respect. The child's instinct leads it to
the mother with its first love, its first longings
for help or sympathy; and this bond should be
stronger as the years go on. But how often,
through thoughtlessness, is the love cooled, the
confidence repressed, the respect lessened! Mother,
mourning because your child does not trust you as
you wish, because  your hold is loosened when
temptations crowd and restraint is most needed,
look back! Do you find no fault in yourself?
Were you always at leisure to return your child's
caress, or did "much serving" make you forget
that a heart may go half starved while the body is
fed? In your anxiety to fashion comely garments
for your family, were you not slowly weaving a
mantle of reserve to shroud the yearning soul from
your sight? We know interesting girls and boys
to confide to the listening ear of a wise teacher
things of greatest moment, with the remark—"I
never could tell this to my mother; she never talks
to me as you do." Mothers, give heed to this
gentle hint. Study the natures of your children,
and treat them accordingly.
	Spiced Fruits.—To seven pounds of fruit add
three pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar and a
table-spoonful of various kinds of spice.
	Plum Cake.—One cup of sugar, one half cup
of butter, one of buttermilk, two of flour, one of
raisins; one egg, one teaspoonful soda. Cinnamon,
cloves and nutmeg to taste.
	Cup Cake.—One cup of butter, two cups of su-
gar, three cups of flour, four eggs, a little sour milk
and soda, or water soda and cream of tarter. This
is the best and most easily made of plain cakes.
	Tea Cake.—One cup of white sugar, half a cup
of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one egg, one-
half teaspoonful soda, one of cream of tartar, and
flour enough to make it like soft gingerbread.
Flavor with the juice of a small lemon. This
makes a good sized loaf.
	Farmer's Fruit Cake.—Cut two cups of sour
dried apples very fine, soak them over night in
cold water, add a cup of molasses, and stew until
thick; then add a cup of sugar, one of butter, one
of sour cream, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two eggs,
five cups of flour, and spice to taste.


Fritters.—Take young, sweet corn, pepper, salt,
nutmeg, and butter hot in the pan. Grate the
corn from the cobs into a basin, season and drop
by spoonfuls into a pan, and fry until brown.
This is a delicious breakfast relish, but requires
considerable time to prepare.
	Clothing Pins.—They should be boiled a few
moments and quickly dried once or twice a month,
when they become more flexible and durable.
Clothes lines will last longer and keep in better
order for wash-day service, if occasionally treated in
the same way.
	Cakes.—Superfine flour, sweet butter, fresh eggs,
and white sugar, are indispensable in making good
cake. The butter may sometimes be wholly or par-
tially omitted, and sweet lard or drippings, or cream
used in its stead. The flour must be sifted. An
earthen pan is best to mix it in, and a wooden
spoon or padle should be used for stirring. The
rule is to separate the yelks from the whites of the
eggs, beating up the former with the sugar, then
adding the butter, and only stirring in the whites,
well whisked, when all the other ingredients have
been added.


[For the EXPONENT
		“LOVE AT- HOME.”

	There is no picture half so charming as a
family bound together by the tenderest ties
of love. When gathered around the cheer-
ful fireside, peace pervades the circle, and it
seems as though heaven were there. The
happy, smiling faces tell more plainly than
words the joy that is felt; every member of
that family is willing to sacrifice his per-
sonal comforts for the happiness of the loved
ones. We see no cross looks, no angry frowns,
hear no cross words, nor anything else that
will mar their peace; and when bed time
comes they kneel in prayer and retire, with
heartfelt gratitude to their Heavenly Father,
How can such a family help being blessed!
If all the world looks coldly on them, they
are sure of sympathy at home, that more
than repays all.
	Let us look at the opposite picture. Here
you see the father so buried in thought that
he won’t answer a question that is asked by
his child, or if it is answered it is in such a
cross way that the little one dares not ask
another; the mother frets and scolds at the
children, and they quarrel with each other.
Such families, thank God, are scarce, among
the true Latter-day Saints, but there are
some such, even here. To be sure there is
love in every family, but judging from the
different influences manifested, there is
considerable more in some than in others.
How much better it is to follow in the foot-
steps of that great example of Love—the
Savior—which will bring happiness to us in
the darkest hour of trouble, than to fret
and find fault, and make ourselves disagree-
able. A young man who loves his home,
generally makes a good husband, but one
who loves every other place better, will sel-
dom break off his bachelor connections for
the society of his wife; and the consequence
is, she has the pleasure (?) of spending her
evenings alone. If true girls would take a
stand that they would not marry such men,
it might have a beneficial effect, in its way.
	RICHMOND.				P.A.M.


﻿“AUNT PHEBE,” in the “Rural New
Yorker,” attributes the cross looks and fret-
ful words of wives generally, to want of
sleep and rest. We believe with her, that
most working women, while rearing fami-
lies indulge in this, the best of all stimu-
lants, far too little. A quiet hour or even
half hour’s nap, would do them more good,
if possible to be obtained, than a dozen cups
of tea.


A LETTER.

TO THE YOUNG LADIES 0F THE 19TH WARD
	RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION.

			Meadowville, Dec. 7th, 1873.
My Dear Sisters:
	I rejoice to learn that you are again organ-
ized into a Retrenchment Association, and
sincerely hope you will duly appreciate the
many advantages and privileges deriving
therefrom. I can assure you the privilege,
of meeting with you every Thursday eve-
ning would be esteemed by me as a great
and invaluable blessing, but I can only com-
mune with you through the medium of my
pen, which I take pleasure in doing. If it
will have the desired effect of cheering and
encouraging you, my sisters, (for such I love
to call you,) I am indeed pleased to write.
	I pray God to assist you in your humble
endeavors to aid in establishing a reform
among the ladies of Utah. That there is
much need of a reform, ’tis needless to
state, as it is plain to all, either careful or
careless observers, that the present state of
extravagance in dress and daily habits,must
lead to fearful results. It so completely un-
fits woman for the useful sphere before her,
besides having an awful bearing on the fu-
ture generation. Where are the stalwart,
bright, intellectual men and women, which
our Country will so much need, to come
from? Surely the present state of affairs
will not tend to produce such. Woman has
got to step forward, free herself from the
hateful bonds of enslaving fashion, let her
true womanhood take its natural course, and
prepare herself for that important mission
for which she was created; viz., her glo-
rious part in peopling the world with noble-
minded men and women.
	Let us, dear girls, take pains to dress
neatly and tastefully, with an eye to com-
fort and a strict observance of cleanliness
and health, ever allowing our circumstances
to govern our purchases. It is in bad taste
to dress beyond our means; or endeavor to
make a display at the expense of father’s
hard earnings, or mother’s little household
comforts. Or if we have means earned by
our own industry, how foolish to invest it
all in fine dress, instead of something which
would be a constant source of pleasure
and benefit, such ns a useful book, or nice
and useful article of furniture with which
to adorn our homes and make life happy.
Then we should be unselfish and seek the
good of others.
	Let us be dignified, gentle,polite and wo-
manly in our daily conduct, ever maintain-
ing self-respect and independence as daugh-
ters of our Father who sent us here, to pre-
pare ourselves and assist others in preparing
for that grand future which we believe
awaits all who strive to win it.
	Let us carefully study and investigate the
glorious Gospel of Christ, and the wonder-
ful manner in which it was restored to the
earth; after which there will be no possibil-
ity of a doubt of the truth of it lingering,
in our minds. This is of the most vital
importance to us lest we in our thoughtless-
ness should be led astray. It would be far
better for us should our heads be severed
from our shoulders than that we should take
a course to sever ourselves from the Church
of our Lord and Savior. Let us devote more
time to reflection upon these important items,
and cease to be so childishly thoughtless.
	In conclusion I would say, seek and pray
for wisdom and use it. Be humble and ex-
emplary, court the approbation and society
of good and intelligent men and women.
Ever believe my heart is with you, and my
prayers are for you. 	LONA ELDREDGE.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			THAT BILL
	The perusal of the new Frelinghuysen Bill
has filled me with indignation; and being,
for the present at least,an American Citizen,
I take the liberty to express my opinion on
the subject.
	First, I would like to know how any man
dares to call himself a son and citizen of
this liberal Republic while advocating such
arbitrary measures. Not content, it seems,
with trammeling the free action of the Ter-
ritorial Legislature, he would even enslave
the future State by having it enacted by
Congress that “no laws shall hereafter be
passed conflicting with the provisions of this
Act.” One Act, at least, in the code of the
future State must remain immutable as the
laws of the Medes and Persians! Then this
Sovereign Slave, Deseret, may fold her arms
and content herself with observing the pro-
gress of Sister States in this direction until
lost to her view, and she left alone in her
chains.
	How pure and exalted is the friendship,
how tender and winning the sympathy
which this bill holds out to a large class of
virtuous and high-minded women in this
Territory!
	If they will repudiate the honorable name
of wife,and, by their own admissions, stamp
their children as illegitimate, they may
have—a suitable proportion of their hus-
band's property! How magnanimous the
offer! how charming the prospect!!
	Does Mr. Frelinghuysen, or any person of
sound mind, for one moment imagine that
there is money enough even represented by
the National Debt to buy from one of Utah’s
right-minded daughters her children’s birth-
right? her own proud sense of honor? or her
steadfast faith that she is walking in the
straight and narrow way which leads to life
everlasting? I fear he judges her by report
and not from personal acquaintance.
	Then, again can any unprejudiced person
call it just that we be deprived of our fran-
chise at the whim of interested or disinter-
ested politicians who make not even a pre-
tense of showing a reason for it? And that 
too, not only for a season, with the hope of
regaining, at some future day,the great loss,
but since “No Act shall hereafter be passed
&c.,” though all sister States might enfran-
chise their daughters, Utah might not do
the same.
	Although woman suffrage is here yet a
bold and unsupported fact, though no wo-
man has yet been called to serve on a jury
nor elected by vote to any civil office, I
doubt if Mr, Frelinghuysen himself, values
his vote more than I do mine, if I am a wo-
man; for I look upon it as the concession of
the government that daughters are human
as well as sons, and as a stepping stone to
all other privileges; so I maintain, not only
my inherent right to a voice in the laws I
must obey, but that the very least the“Pow-
ers that be” can do for us is to give us a fair
chance and plenty of time to prove whether
we are not at least as well qualified to make
good use of the ballot as a freedman or a
foreigner. Then as for the insinuation some
cast upon us that we dare not vote other-
wise than as our husbands dictate, or that
neither male nor female voters dare vote ex-
cept as the Church authorities think best,
I can say for the former that so far as my
information extends, there is not a shadow
of truth in it; and for the latter I have struck
off an objectionable name from the ticket
which most church members voted entire and
witnessed the numbering of it, without the
remotest idea that any disagreeable con-
sequences to myself would follow.
	It would be hard indeed, if after having

[Column 2]
tasted the sweets of liberty, we were to be
remanded to the level of idiots and felons.
And by the provisions of this most unre-
publican bill we are to be subjected to the
old common law which gives all a wife’s in-
herited property, earnings, children, person,
all but life itself to her husband’s absolute
control; thus in all save that one reservation,
setting her on a level with domestic ani-
mals. What have we done to merit such
overwhelming kindness as this?
	But, as I said in the beginning,I am only
surprised and indignant at the effort being
made, not alarmed about the result. we poor
Minor Children of the Union have too many
friends among those who have attained to
their majority, and Woman Suffrage and
equal rights as principles have too many
friends for such measures to be counten-
anced. God speed the day when not only
we, but all women may enjoy franchise and
all kindred privileges unquestioned.
							L.L.D.


WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT.
				—
  A few words to my young sisters—those
who have stepped forth, according to Presi-
dent Young's counsel, and formed themselves
in associations, to instruct the mind and
learn wisdom. It is a position dear young
ladies, that you will never repent having
taken. By honoring it, you will gain faith
in God, it will give you a knowledge of the
principles of the gospel, which is essential
above all other knowledge. We are prom-
ised, through obedience to the first princi-
ples of the gospel, our former sins shall be
remitted; by confirmation, or the laying on
of hands, that we shall receive the gift of the
Holy Ghost, which will witness to us by the
spirit that the latter-day work is true and of
God. These are great promises. I have been
led to marvel, in hearing a great many of
the youth, growing up in our midst, say
that they believed the gospel to be true but
could not say that they knew it to be so.
This has caused me to think “there is a lack
somewhere.” When I embraced the gospel,
I was in my thirteenth year, and at that ear-
ly age I received a testimony that was satis-
factory to me, that it was trne. I well re-
member being present at a testimony meet-
ing where I felt forcibly constrained to bear
testimony to the truth; I tried to argue with
myself, that I was too young to get up and
say anything—was only a little girl and
should not speak. But it was no use, I had
to get up and bear testimony that Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God, and so forth.
I tell you this to encourage you; if you have
not got a witness yourself, seek until you do
get one. Our Heavenly Father “is the same
yesterday, to-day and forever;” willing at
all times to bless and give gifts unto his chil-
dren. But the steps you have taken will in-
spire your minds—you will be filled with the
light of truth, and will not be ashamed of
the worship of God. In your youth you
have espoused a good cause, to co-operate
with your brethren and elder sisters in the
great latter-day work. And God will bless
you and crown your labors with success.
Your influence for good will be felt by your
companions—through the blessings of the
Lord you will form a nucleus for the young.
Sustain your Presidents by your faith and
prayers, that although young in years and
experience; they may be inspired with
wisdom and knowledge. and have power to
impart it; that you may have joy in meet-
ing together. Be true to each other, speak
slightingly of no one, but, build each other
up; cultivate the love of the gospel which
is stronger than kindred ties; be chaste in


speech; set wise examples; be pure in
thoughts, words and deeds. There is a great
work devolving on each one of us; the Lat-
ter-day Dispensation has been ushered in,
therefore let us work while it is day, for it
will take all our energies combined in the
right source, to prepare us for what Presi-
dent Heber C. Kimball termed “vessels of
honor.” My prayer is that your influence
may be felt at home and abroad; the gentle
chiding of a sister or a lady friend has many
times had great effect with the opposite sex;
therefore improve every talent given you,
that you may become true women in every
sense of the word. 	   JANE S. COLEMAN.
	SMITHFIELD.


﻿MISS ADELINE Trafton, the author of a
novel now running in Scribner’s Monthly, is
the daughter of Rev. Mark Trafton, a Metho-
dist clergyman of Boston.


HUMOROUS.

	A “CHEST protector.”—A good padlock.

	THE MOST steadfast followers of our for-
tunes.—Our creditors.

	WHEN YOU have reached your bottom dol-
lar, let it alone.

	WHY ARE clergymen like brakeman?
Because they do a good deal of coupling.

	A DETROIT picture dealer says the hard-
est work he has had to do is to frame excuses.

	SPINER THINKS some of the fashionable
church singing is done upon the high-drawl-
ic principle. 

	"ARE OYSTERS healthy?" asked an old
lady of her physician. "I never heard any
of them complain of being unwell," was the
reply.
	
	JUDGE HOAR once said of a lawyer: "He
has reached the superlative life; at first he
sought to get on, and then he sought to get
honor, and now he is trying to get honest."

	AN EDITOR wrote: "We have received a
basket of strawberries from Mr. Smith, for
which he will receive our compliments, some
of which are four inches in circumference."

	AN EDITOR out West became martial, and
was made a captain. On parade, instead of
"two paces in front—advance,” he uncon-
sciously exclaimed, “cash—two dollars a
year in advance."

	WHILE MR. Bean of Hallowell was cross-
ing the railway track, his sleigh was struck
by a train and stove into kindling wood.
As many times as kindling wood has gone
into stoves, this is the first recorded instance
of a stove into kindling wood.

	A DETROIT boy stood an umbrella, with a
cord tied to it, in a public door-way. Elev-
en persons thought that umbrella was theirs,
and carried it with them the length of the
string. They then suddenly dropped it and
went off without once looking back or stop-
ping to pick it up again.

	SHERIDAN WAS much annoyed in the
House of Commons by a member who kept
constantly crying, "Hear! hear! The witty
orator described a fellow who wanted to play
rogue, but had only sense enough to play
fool, and exclaimed with great emphasis,
"Where shall we find a more foolish knave,
or a more knavish fool than he?" "Hear,
hear!,' shouted the troublesome member.
Sheridan turned round, and thanking him
for the prompt information, sat down amid
a general roar of laughter.


W O M A N ’ S  E X P O N E N T .


     AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
				   ––––
			      AGENTS.
			   Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  "	Margt. P. Young,	 "	Amanda Kimball
  "	Lily Staines,		  "	Elizabeth Davis,
  "	Sarah Smith, 		  "	Hampton, 16th
  "	Mary J. Thomson,	  			Ward,
  "	Margaret Steel,	  "	Sarah E. Smith,
		     Miss Sarah E. Russell.
		    CORRESPONDENTS.
Mrs. Laura Miner,		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
  "	A. B. Smith,		Miss Mary  E. Cook.
			       AGENTS,
			   Weber County,
  "	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
		     Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  "	Mary Rich, Paris.
			      Rich County
	  "	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek,
	  "	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			     Cache County.
	  "	M. A. Maughan,  Logan,
	  "	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	  "	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum.
			  Box Elder County.
	  "	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			     Davis County.
	  "	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	  "	Aurelia Rogers,     "
	  "	Margaret Randell, Centreville,
	  "	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  "	Susan Grant,		     "
	  "	Sylvia Clark,		     "
			   Salt Lake County.
	  "	–––– Higgins, West Jordan,
	  "	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
			tonwood.
			     Tooele County.
	Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
	Mrs. E. Clegg,			"	"
	Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
			       Utah County.
	  "	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  "	–––– Harrison,		   "
	  "	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
			       Juab County.
	  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	  "	Ann Pitchforth,		"
	  "	Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
	  "	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
			     Sanpete County.
	  "	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
			City,
	  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
	Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
	Mrs. Mary Thorpe,		"
			     Millard County.
	  "	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	  "	Belinda M. Pratt,	"
	Miss Mary Callister,	"
			     Beaver County.
	Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
	  "	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
			       Iron County.
	  "	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
	Miss Josephine Smith,	"
	Mrs. Ellen Lunt, Cedar City.
			    Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
	  "	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
			Cedar City.
			 Washington County.
	  "	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
			St. George,
	  "	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.
	Mrs. Mary Confield, Hamlin's Fort.


REPUTATION ONE THING—CHARACTER
			     ANOTHER.

	Reputation is what a person is accounted to be
by others: character consists in what he really is.
	A great many defalcations have come to light
lately in private business houses and in public in-
stitutions. The defaulters in every instance are
spoken of as persons in high standing. Of course
they necessarily must have been such. or they would
not have been entrusted with such large amounts of
money. Beggars, paupers and vagabonds have no
opportunity to become heavy defaulters, On the
contrary, defaulters are men of comely exterior
lives; men who dress decently well; who attend
church; who maintain a good out-side show in
their way of living. They enjoy a fair reputation.
	Yet how different from all these appearances is
their real character! When they look at themselves
they behold a sight quite unlike what they seem to
be in the eyes of the community.
	A character which cannot sternly stand the test
of strict and searching self-examination is not a
good character. If young men begin life with the
daily habit of reviewing their own conduct, and reso-
lutely changing it whenever it fails to square with
the strictest standard of distinguishing between
right and wrong, they will never become defaulters.
They will prove equal to any trust which may be
reposed in them; because they will be guided by a
compass equally well adapted to smooth seas or
rough, and which, under all circumstances, points
toward a sure and safe harbor.—Selected.

		   BABIES AT VIENNA.

	A correspondent writing of the childrens’
department at the Vienna Exposition, says,
“As to the Vienna pavilion, though most of
the contents are the veriest playthings, many
of them answering to no purpose in the best
of hands, yet it is not altogether uninterest-
ing. The most interesting half-sixed mo-
dels in plaster are stationed about the room.
Eight or ten of these illustrate the style in
which women of different nations carry their
babies. The Asiatic Indian woman carries
hers in a blanket hanging in front somewhat
below the waist; the Bengalese woman with
the child astride low down upon her left hip,
and her left arm supporting its back. The
figure seems quite indifferent as to the dif-
ficulties in this way of carrying,which must
be a highly artistic performance if done so
cleverly in reality. The Egyptian woman
carries hers in a stately manner, the child
sitting astride her shoulder with its hands
upon her head, and without any clothing to
speak of. The Brazilian woman carries hers
in a somewhat similiar manner, also in full
undress, it sitting astride her neck. The
Chinese baby is carried upright upon the
back, in a blanket, and the South African in
a bag in front, formed by a blanket about
the hips of the mother. The Lower Aus-
trian woman carries hers by swinging it in
a blanket over one shoulder upon her back,
while the Northern Austrian carries hers
bound upon a board, after the style of can-
dy models in confectionery stores. The Lap-
land baby is carried in a sledge-shaped cot
made of leather. It seems to have been
chucked in, feet foremost, and then a frame
tied over the opening for its face, whether
to prevent it from crawling out or to keep
the dogs from kissing it, is more than can
be imagined. The Esquimaux woman,who
wears wide, high-top boots, and puts the
baby right end foremost, down in the out-
side of one of them, and doubtless, accord-
ing to Dr. Kane's description of her style,
carrying her cooking and heating utensils
in the other. The North American woman
carries her papoose strapped to a board, and
that strapped upon her back by a band over
the forehead.


﻿QUEEN VICTORIA, an English Jenkins
says, has a cask of fresh sea water sent dai-
ly to London, for her morning bath, during
her residence in that city.


TEN YOUNG women made the Harlem Riv-
er at New York lively on Saturday, by a
swimming match. The prize was a silk
dress, valued at $175, and the distance a
mile. Miss Delilah Goboess of Philadelphia,
proved the winner, swimming the mile in
40 minutes. Miss Maggie Colton of Boston,
came in second. Miss Mollie Denan of Ire-
land led for some distance, but nobly resign-
ed her chance of winning,to rescue a young
man who had fallen into the water. The
spectators raised a purse to buy Miss Denan
a gold watch, as a reward for her bravery.


MRS. H.K. PAINTER, M.D.

		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN
	Electricity administered when cases require. 
Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a half
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City. 

MARY H. BARKER, M.D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a.m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,

		Physician and Surgeon.
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by 

		H. DINWOODEY

	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake City. Just the Place for ladies
to purchase.

			NEW CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the 
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:

10 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club 	-	-	-	-	$ 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham 
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 2.		 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1874		 No. 17.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE DEATH of the baby violinist, who
has been performing at the Boston Theatre,
has been recently announced. It will be
remembered that he visited this city some
months since. Not yet seven years old, he
had been before the public for more than
three years. There is nothing wonderful
in the fact that one so early trained to life
before the footlights, should pass away so
soon; but there is a touching pathos in these
words, which are said to have been his last.
"Great God make room in Heaven for one
more little child."

	HARRIET BEECHER Stowe says of co-
education, that "there is a masculine and a
feminine element in all knowledge; and a
man and a woman put to the same study,
extract only what their nature fits them to
see––so that knowledge can be fully de-
veloped only when the two unite in the
search and share the spoils." The idea is a
beautiful one, and might go far towards
convincing some stupid people who imagine
otherwise, that there is much in science of
every kind for woman as well as man to
understand.

	THE ACCOMPLISHED "artiste," Madam
Parepa Rosa, died in London on the night
of the 22nd ult. This favorite songstress
was born in Edinburgh in the year 1839.
Her mother was a fine vocalist and, at the
time of her gifted daughter's birth, was
winning musical fame. Parepa Rosa's
maiden name was Euphrosyne Parepa. Her
father, Count Demetrius Parepa, was a Wal-
lachian nobleman. The mother was greatly
opposed to her daughter's appearing in pub-
lic. But at last gave way, and Parepa Rosa
made her "debut" in the Island of Malta,
in the winter of 1859. She was triumph-
antly successful in her efforts to charm the
musical world. She sand in all the prin-
cipal European languages. In Milan and
Naples, Florence, Rome, Lisbon, Germany,
England and America she has been receiv-
ed with unbounded enthusiasm, and has de-
lighted the public every where with her
wonderful powers of song. As the accom-
plished lady of Carl Rosa, she was idolized
by her husband, and but lately, she became
a mother. From all the laurels gained in
her worldly career, but more than all, from
the ties of affection which must have ren-
dered her triumphs as a public songstress
most sweet, Parepa Rosa has been snatched
away while yet having scarcely reached the
prime of life.


[Column 1]
		   LOCAL NOTES.

		AS PER REQUEST,

Your reporter visited the Council Chamber
of the present Legislature.
		
			(THE COUNCIL
Is the higher department of the Legislature,
bearing the relation to that body that the
Senate does to Congress.)

			PERSONAL FRIENDS
Extended respectful attentions to EXPONENT
Reporter.

[Column 2]
			AT THE TIME
Of organization, the following named gen-
tlemen were found to be entitled to seats in
the Legislative Council:
	Beaver, Iron and Piute Counties, Jesse N.
Smith.
	Box Elder and Weber, Lorenzo Snow.
	Cache and Rich, Moses Thatcher.
	Davis and Morgan, Arthur Stayner.
	Juab and Millard, Thomas Callister.
	Kane and Washington, Jacob Gates.
	Salt Lake, Tooele and Summit, Wilford
Woodruff, William Jennings, William H.
Hooper, John T. Caine.
	Sanpete and Sevier, Jos. A. Young.
	Utah and Wasatch, A. O. Smoot, L. E.
Harrington.
			A COMMITTEE
Upon permanent organization reported the
following as officers, who were duly elected:
	For President, Lorenzo Snow.
	  "	Chief Clerk, L. John Nuttall.
	  "	Ass't Clerk, Patrick Lynch.
	  "	Enrolling Clerk, James Furguson.
	  "	Engrossing Clerk, Rulon S. Wells.
	  "	Sergeant-at-arms, J. D. T. McAllister.
	  "	Door keeper, William Bell.
	  "	Messenger, B. Y. Woodruff.
	  "	Watchman, A. E. Hinkley. 

		YOUR REPORTER,
Having been much interested during her
visit to the Council Chamber, is ready to
pronounce its members altogether an intelli-
gent, gentlemanly body, well worthy of the
positions they hold, as Legislators for the
people.

	THE MOST PRACTICALLY EDUCATED
Learn that much valuable instruction comes
from humble and unpretentious sources.

			IT IS SAID
That when men wore jeans and women wore
calico, there were fewer commercial failures,
less competition among business men, less
domestic infelicity, fewer divorces, less
scandal and more contentment and peace
than now. Who doubts it?

	THE CHEAPEST AND BEST
Soap for toilet use is pure Castile by the lb
or bar. French as well as American scien-
tists assert that the various toilet soaps and
vinegars contain arsenic and other deleteri-
ous poisons.

		 MEN AND WOMEN
Are equally responsible for the use of their
talents, faculties and powers.
The law of humanity requires each to seek
earnestly to promote the best interest of the
great family of Earth.

		WHILE TRUSTED MEN
Are regardless of justice, and sacred consti-
tutional rights are hanging, as it were, by a
thread in our Congressional Hall, patriotism
wears the blush of shame for national dis-
honor.

	MISS M. E. COOK'S GRADED SCHOOL.

We had the pleasure of visiting this admir-
ably conducted institution, on Friday, Jan.
23d, and witnessing some of the closing ex-
ercises of the second term of the year. We
were much gratified with the degree of ad-
vancement that was manifested in analyzing
principles of penmanship, and in elocution-

[Column 3]
ary exercises. The school is divided into
Senior, Junior and Primary grades with the
following list of efficient teachers: Louisa
Ashby, Emma Wells, Clarissa Smith, Lu-
cretia Heywood, May Wells and Lilly Tay-
lor.
	In addition to the above, Eliza R. Snow
assists in giving lessons in composition and
elocution. The third term of the school
year commenced on Monday, 26th of Jan.


HUMOROUS.

	A BAD habit to get into—A coat that’s not
paid for.

	MOSQUITOES NEVER trust—they invaria-
bly present their bills in advance.

	A VOLUME that will bring tears to your
eyes—A volume of smoke.

	ADVERTISING FOR a wife is just as absurd
as it would be to get measured for an um-
brella.

	THE LEAP year style of popping the ques-
tion now is, “Dont you want me to wash
dishes for you?"

	WHAT IS the difference between a Jew and
a lawyer? The one gets his law from the
prophets, the other his profits from the law.

	JOSH BILLINGS says: "When you strike
ile stop boring; many a man has bored
clean thru, and let all the ile run out at the
bottom.

	"BUB" ASKED a perplexed pedestrian,
"which is the quickest way for me to get to
the Eastern depot?" Accommodating news-
boy, "Run,"

	A NEW style of boys' trowsers has been
invented in Boston, with a copper seat,sheet-
iron knees, riveted down the seams, and
water-proof pockets to hold broken eggs.

	A MAIDEN lady who had once been jilted,
wrote her own epitaph, as follows:

		"Here lies the body of one
		Who died of constancy alone.
		Stranger, advance with step courageous;
		For this disease is not contageous!"

	"SO YOU don't care about donkey riding,
missy. And why? "O, I've got a pony,and
one doesn’t care about donkeys after that,
you know." "Has a pony got more legs than
a donkey, then?" Missy (who doesn't like
to be chaffed)—“Yes, exactly twice as many
as some donkeys that I know of."

	"I AM a self-made man," said a native of
Stonington the other day to a New York
gentleman with whom he had been driving
a sharp bargain. "Glad to hear you say so,"
responded the New Yorker, who had been
worsted in the trade, "for it relieves the
Lord of a great responsibility."

	"Oh, AUNT Hester, how can you be such
a hypocrite as to go to church, and exhort
and pray, and pretend to be so good, after
stealing and lying as you have?  I should
think you would expect that God would
strike you dumb."
	"Lordy, missus," responded Aunt Hester,
"do you spec I’se goin’ to gib up my bressed
Jesus just for one ole turkey hen?"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT
		WAY SIDE GEMS.

	Cease young sister, young and fair,
	All thy useless thought and care;
	Follow not in follies train,
	All her senseless arts disdain.

	Gather for thy future life
	Gems with precious knowledge rife;
	Gems of endless beauty rare,
	Gems, not for thy glossy hair,
	Gems whose splendor will outvie
	All that,s bright of earth or sky:

	Gems of untold, countless cost,
	Gems too precious to be lost
	In the giddy whirl of life,
	'Midst its scenes of jealous strife!

	Treasures rare, which polished bright,
	Gleam with everlasting light:
	All that's good and pure of earth
	To these treasures owe their birth.

	Go then, fill thy youthful mind
	With all things noble and refined.
	Not the richness of the dress,
	But what hearts and minds posses

	True respect and love will win—
	Not all without nor all within;
	But when nicely blent with care—
	All fair within, without is fair.
BEAVER CITY.					A. B. C.


﻿R. S. REPORTS.

	A Young Ladies Retrenchment associa-
tion was organized in the 16th Ward of this
city on Saturday the 24th ult. Miss Mary
Williams was elected President. The occa-
sion was one of interest. Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. Horne, Mary E. Cook and others spoke
words of instruction and encouragement ap-
propreate to the occasion. Their (the young
ladies) motto is “Improvement.” May their
efforts be crowned with success.
							S. M. K.


FROM DIXIE.

			ST. GEORGE, JAN. 15, 1874.
	DEAR EXPONENT;
	St. George is now enjoying a sweet, gen-
tle rain. Since we have been here, we have
had but one-half day’s rain, until to-day, to
hinder the workmen on the Temple. I
never before saw the roads about St. George
so good as they have been this winter.
There are sixty men at work on the founda-
tion of the temple, and a hundred and fifty
in the quarries, hauling rock, lime, sand and
other material. The ground where the tem-
ple is being built is so tinctured with min-
eral that it will dissolve sand stone and
limestone in three years, for this reason the
foundation and basement are built of black
volcanic rock so very hard that the mineral
does not effect it. The boulders from which
it is quarried resemble cast iron, and it
weighs thirty-four lbs. more per cubic foot
than sandstone. These stones are hauled off
the mountain west of St. George about two
and a half miles. We expect the whole of
the black rock will be laid by the first of
February. About one hundred and eighty
cords were yet necessary to finish the work
when we came here. Large quantities of
red sandstone are already on the ground.
It has to be hauled about two miles; and fif-
teen hundred cords of this beautiful rock
will be required to complete the temple.
The quarry from which this sandstone is
obtained is worth visiting.
	The Saints here seem healthy and pros-
perous; their meetings are well attended.
I met with the Relief Society on Tuesday
last, had a large attendance and a splendid
meeting. 		 BATHSEHBA W. SMITH.


[Column 1]
			A LETTER.

	MOUNT PLEASANT, NOV. 16th, 1873.
My Dear Sisters of the 11th Ward Retrench-
	ment Society:—
	With pleasure will memory ever recall
your dear names, and bright, happy faces:—
And our sacred associations in singing, pray-
ing and exchanging ideas, are cherished as
the sweetest and holiest reminiscences of
my life. O! would that I could ever feel
that heavenly influence that I have so often
experienced, when surrounded by you my
beloved sisters! How often have I felt the
presence of angels—and most truly do I be-
lieve they lingered near, rejoicing in the
words of the humblest child who endeavor-
ed to raise her voice in the cause of Re-
trenchment.
	Since being deprived of the great privi-
lege of joining you in these meetings, I
have frequently desired to write you a few
of my ideas of life, and the numerous duties
connected therewith. Earnestly desiring
to be inspired and dictated by the Spirit of
Truth, I give you the following thoughts,
hoping they may prove beneficial to you.
Often do I reflect upon the mission of wo-
man; and of the great opportunities afford-
ed us in these Societies, of preparing our-
selves for the great work of life. To me, it
seems more adapted to this purpose than
any other organization upon the earth; for
in addition to the natural capabilities of
women, we have the spirit of revelation to
aid us. If we lived up to our privileges,
how wise would be the women of Utah!
Though sad is the fact, it is too true that
very many of this people are careless and
negligent in regard to religious matters.
The young do not seem to realize the ne-
cessity of preparation for future usefulness.
Momentary pleasures occupy more time and
thought than do the stern realities of life.
But if woman ever fills the holy, sacred
station designed by the great Author of her
being, it is by looking life bravely in the
face, reflecting upon her duties, and by care-
ful preparation for those duties. Then let
us reflect upon what it is the desire of every
true woman to accomplish—to live a noble
life of usefulness. Oh! may we never let
an opportunity pass of doing good, for every
kind word, every kind act will be as dia-
mond stars in our crowns. Our merciful
Father desires his children to assist and
bless each other; and though we may con-
stantly impart our knowledge, our wisdom,
our kindness and love to others, the foun-
tains will be still undiminished; and these
virtues, by being used to the glory of God,
and the benefit of his children, will become
the brighter, the more potent, and power-
ful; and our hearts will abound with joy and
peace. "Then let our lights shine." By
keeping the Spirit of the Lord we will have
light, cheerful hearts; and how glorious is
the influence of such spirits in the home cir-
cle. Here I deem is woman's true field of
labor. To our parents, how much we are
indebted for all their loving kindness; but
all the return they crave for years of con-
stant, unselfish love, is our gratitude and
obedience. Then should we not freely give
these? And more—by our gentle love,
should we not seek to comfort and cheer
their declining years? And much, indeed,
can we assist them by our influence and ex-
ample in governing the younger brothers
and sisters of the family. In this, her first
home, woman's power of usefulness is very
great, in performing the duties she owes her
parents, brothers and sisters. If her respon-
sibilities are great in this era of her life,
how much are they increased when she as-

[Column 2]
sumes the sacred position of wife and of
mother! Would it were in my power to
impress upon your minds the necessity, as I
feel it now, of preparation for these most
important offices in life. Study, reflect upon
these things! Seek to develop the faculties
of your minds, and improve well your time
in gaining useful knowledge; and especially
seek to understand the principles of the gos-
pel. Cultivate the love of truth and right-
eousness, and God will bless you and give
you His Spirit to aid and guide you aright.
	That you may each one have long life,
health and strength and power to overcome
all evil, and gain eternal life in the King-
dom of Heaven is the prayer of your friend
and sister, who desires your good will, your
faith and prayers. 		ELLIS R. SHIPP.


﻿For the EXPONENT.
		LANGUAGE.
	When there are so many pleasant and ex-
pressive words and phrases in the English
language, it seems a pity that any one should
be foolish enough to make use of slang
phrases, and vulgar words. Especially is
this manner of speech unbecoming and un-
dignified when proceeding from the lips of
young ladies. Yet I regret to say, that even
here among the daughters of the Latter-day
Saints, it is becoming far too prevalent. I
am sure that young ladies who indulge in
the use of slang talk, cannot realize how it
grates upon the ear of a refined and well
educated person, or they would never suffer
themselves to speak any such unnecessary
words.
	How it sounds to hear a young lady answer
a question with “Not much!" or “Not for
Joe!” or remark if a statement is made,“Oh
that's too thin!” I think if the origin of
such low phrases was known to all the girls
they would never be spoken by any of them.
But even were there nothing worse attached
to them,(as the following in a measure after
the fashions of the base and ignorant,) such
expressions give evidence of bad taste and a
want of proper culture. Let them not be
known among the children of Zion—with
the teachings and examples we now have,
we should be above anything that could be
counted unworthy of the best societies.
							NELL.


A SURE HELPER.

	How often we say, in great anxiety, "Who
shall roll us away the stone? and when we
look again, behold "the stone is rolled
away," though it was very great. Every
time God helps us out of a difficulty, we
should return and give glory to Him, and
then go on our way with joy and fresh cour-
age. We should often review the circum-
stances, and see how God was at work for
us, maybe in distant places, at the very
time of our trouble; how he was ordering
events and disposing of men's wills, so as to
bring us just the help we needed. It is un-
Christian to call these occurrences "chance"
or "good luck." "All our steps are num-
bered." Let us learn to see God's hand in
all that befalls us. An old man who had
been long engaged in business said, "I have
had my ups and downs, but as I review my
life, those things which I thought, at the
time, most against me have proved the best
for me even temporally, besides teaching
me submission to Him who rules the
world."—Sunday-School World.


A BLONDE woman is considered a fright
in Russia.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			OUR DAUGHTERS.
	"What shall we do with our daughters!"
	Mrs. Livermore, a popular lecturer in the
East, asks this question of almost every
audience she addresses, and it is echoed on
every hand: here in Utah, mothers gravely
look each other in the face and repeat the
echo. What is the matter, and what is the
remedy ?
	The celebrated Mrs. Howe replies, “make
cooks of them.” That may answer a very
good purpose under some circumstances, but
will that supply the only deficiency in Wo-
men’s Education ? Are they taught every
thing else that is essential to their happiness
in life ? Do they possess every other requi-
site qualification which will help them to fill
Woman’s Mission here? I think not.
	There are exceptions certainly some girls
have mothers who possess an unbounded in-
fluence over their whole lives and charac-
ters—mothers who have kept themselves
free from the excesses and extravagances,
which this generation indulge in to such an
unwarrantable extent—Puritan mothers, if
you will permit the expression—and they
have restrained as much as possible, this
spirit which prevails in the world. It not
only carries the sway in dress, in style of
living and so forth, but in ideas as well.
	Girls get the most exaggerated ideas of
love and friendship and all the relations per-
taining to material existence; and this spirit
is fast gaining ground among our daughters.
	How shall we stem the current ? And
who is to step forward in this great work of
reformation ? Have we come out from the
world, and embraced the gospel of salva-
tion, revealed from heaven for the express
purpose of redeeming the human family,
from these social evils—for which we have
endured persecution and privation, being
despised not only by the world at large, but
our own kindred, I say have we endured all
this, to allow the same evils to spring up in
our midst, and not lift our voices or our pens
to cry out against them ?
	It is an easy matter to say it is the moth-
er’s fault, in speaking of our neighbor, but
when the evil creeps into your own house,
when you find it springing up under your
own eye, whose fault is it then ? Certainly
not yours—O no!
	We profess to have more light than the
world, to live purer lives, to be led by the
Spirit of God. Then we ought to move in
this matter, and show the women of the
world, that we know what to do with our
daughters.
	Do we teach them the principles of the
 gospel ? I believe wo do so far as its first
principles extend; and even the ordinances
of the House of the Lord; but do we instill in-
to their minds the necessity of living every
day in accordance with the Holy Spirit ?
Or do we, because we ourselves yield to
temptation, call on our children for sympa-
thy, in the trials of domestic life ? Do we
let them see and understand we are living
unhappily, when our holy religion should be
sufficient support, under all our trials ? If
 we are suffering from any unhappy state of
mind, in all probability we are in fault; let
us not throw the blame on any one else,
until we are sure that we are ourselves en-
tirely exempt from blame in the matter.
	I have little feeling for that mother who
allows herself for one moment, to speak to
her children against their father. If she
must speak, let it be to some one, who is
herself married, and can understand and
appreciate the feelings of a wife. That men
are imperfect is true enough, but for heav-
[Column 2]
en’s sake let your husband’s faults be sacred
from the eyes of his children!
	I am fully aware that in speaking thus
plainly, I subject myself to criticism, but I
can bear that better than to see this evil
spreading so far in Zion. Many women do
not consider the influence their words, their
actions, their looks even, have upon their
daughters. I assure you this is not imagi-
nation, and in reading this, some mother
may perchance, bethink herself and restrain
her inclination to ask for sympathy; she
does not need it, unless from her husband,
and if he does not give it voluntarily, all
the fault-finding in the world, will not call
it forth.
	Some of our good sisters will not sustain
us in our efforts for the benefit of women;
say we get together to gossip, and all that
sort of thing; ridicule our endeavors and
pretend to think we make them to gain no-
toriety; that we are “strong-minded," un-
womanly, and so forth. Thank God there
are some women who have stamina enough
to stand boldly forth in defence of right,
and to cry out against wickedness under
whatever flattering guise it may appear! It
matters little what name they give us, so
long as our motives are pure, and our actions
honorable.
	Are we not all interested in this matter ?
Is it an individual consideration ? One may
say, “I am capable of managing my own af-
fairs; I do not choose to be interfered with,
my daughters are safe.” But will they re-
main so ? This spirit is contagious as dis-
ease it is carried from house to house, it pre-
vails in the ball-room and the Theatre, the
very atmosphere seems full of it.
	The Young Ladies Societies which have
been formed, are calculated to check the
progress of these evils; to benefit our young
ladies temporally and spiritually; it is not
simply retrenchment in dress, (which seems
to scare every body so,) but it comprises
everything which will tend to refine, elevate
and purify them socially. Every mother in
Israel should encourage the young, especially
her own daughters, to sustain these associa-
tions.
	We are seeking to open a channel of in-
formation more satisfying than the gilded
literature of the present day, which is so
widely circulated: every woman’s mind
craves some mental food and a certain vari-
ety of it; but it is not safe, in this day and
age, to let young girls choose for them-
selves; the moral taste has become vitiated
and wants purifying. Mothers, do not let
your little girls read books you know noth-
ing about; you cannot watch them too
closely; you are careful, many of you, of
their physical health, afraid they should eat
too much, or dance too much, or wear their
clothes too tight, or not dress warm enough,
and keep their feet dry. That is all right;
but does it ever occur to you, that they can
drink in moral poison from impure and un-
healthy reading, as well as from associating
with people whose morals are not in accor-
dance with the principles of virtue and
piety ? Every mother should know her
daughter’s associates, and what she reads.
Oftentimes mothers are satisfied if their
girls are at home reading instead of gad-
ding about showing themselves on the
street; making all manner of chance ac-
quaintances; but I would charge you, moth-
ers, be sure it is the right kind of reading.
“It is only a love story," may be the answer
if you ask them; but perhaps some of you
mothers are not aware that Infidelity, Spir-
itualism and other evil influences are insidi-
ously making their way into novels, poison-
ing the atmosphere of light literature.
“Books are companions," and some persons
[Column 3]
have an idea they cannot be bad compan-
ions, but it is a mistaken one.
	There are among our people, very many
parents, who have gathered from the old 
countries, who cannot read at all; how are
they to choose suitable books for their daug-
ters, and whose judgment should they take 
in the matter ? If they will influence them
to join the Young Ladies’ Retrenchment So-
cieties, they will then be instructed in rela- 
tion to this matter, by those thoroughly
posted on the subject.
	I have received the impression, in con-
versing with some of our young ladies, in
regard to joining the Societies, that they
think we want to restrict them in those
privileges and enjoyments, natural to the
young; that we wish them to be long-faced,
over-serious, and in short as they express it,
“awful religious!”
	We do not believe in long-faces; cheerful-
ness is one of the Christian graces, there
can be no better proof of a clear conscience,
than a uniform cheerfulness of disposition.
Our religion is not to be put on and thrown
off, as suits the occasion and circumstances, 
it is an every-day affair, it regulates, or
should do, our whole lives, and gives us
complete self-control in all the changing vi-
cissitudes of our mortal existence.
	Mothers, let me again urge upon you, to 
use your utmost influence in assisting in the
work we have undertaken; if your daugh-
ters are free from the spirit and influence
of the world, let them help to make others
so; their influence may be more beneficial
than that of older persons. Let us work to- 
gether, for "union is power."
	I am thankful to my Heavenly Father
that we are now able to edit a woman’s pa-
per, and I consider it a duty incumbent up-
on every woman in Israel, to use her best
efforts to support and circulate it. Read it
yourselves, have your daughters read it
and if it is not good enough, help to make
it better.
	We should be the ones to lead out, and
let the world see we are not ashamed of the
Cause we have espoused. We are not re-
stricted in our ideas of woman’s privileges;
we are not in bondage as they suppose; we
are perfectly capable of thinking for our-
selves; let us lift up our voices against er-
ror, and preach what we are trying to prac-
tice in purity, showing by our words that
we believe in the doctrine we have em
braced.
	We wish our daughters to understand
themselves, perfectly and thoroughly; why
they were created, and what their future lives 
are to be; how they are to fill their missions
here, control themselves, overcome every
inherent weakness, and live pure and holy
lives. Let us give them the benefit of our
experience so far as it will have a tendency 
to stimulate them in the path of duty, and I
save them the bitter lessons we have dearly
bought, if possible guard them from evil
influences, within and without, that our
garments may be clear, and we may have it
said to us, “you have been faithful in de-
veloping the precious gems commited to
your keeping.” We shall assuredly be held 
accountable in a coming day for all these
gems. What is there more precious to a
mother than her daughters’ welfare and
happiness ? Nothing.
	Is there any sacrifice too great to be made, 
to secure this blessing for her child? None. 
Then be careful of your words, do not throw
temptation in their way yourself. Be sure
you share their confidence on all subjects,
pray with them and for them, as well as to
advise them, and your influence as mothers
cannot fail to do good.
				Blanche Beechwood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT

		L. GEEENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3. 
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents; East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1874.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	General Garibaldi has published a book
which gives an account of his Sicily expe-
dition; it bears the title of "Ten thousand"
.........Clerkenwell, London, has a regular
woman preacher, Miss Fransis Power Cobb
.......A brief "Life of the late Mrs. Parton"
(Fanny Fern) has lately been prepared by
Mr. James Parton.........Tschaggenny, the
Brussels animal painter, is dead...A Bruns-
wick man doped a nest-egg with a powerful
emetic for the benefit of a neighbor whom
he suspected of stealing his eggs, and his
own son was taken very sick the same eve-
ning......An old woman is reported to have
been killed in Nevada lately, for witch-craft
......The National Grange of Patrons of Hus-
bandry meets in St. Louis, Misouri, on the
4th inst......A Bethel, Kansas, man, wants
to know which is the correct term, "How's
your woman?" or "How's your wife?" The
"Rural New Yorker" thinks either one is
correct......A Connecticut man who stole
melons from a farmer last year, has sent
the seeds back to him in a letter, with the
request that he will plant the same this year
.........The Ville du Havre is the fourteenth
large Atlantic liner totally lost......Dinners
are being supplied to poor children in Lon-
don at two cents per head......Ralls Co., Mo.,
is troubled with hog cholera......Rome, with
all its learning, is said to have fewer book-
stores than Providence, R. I.......The next
European world's exhibition will be at Ber-
lin......The Supreme Court of Texas, declares
the late election of that state unconstitu-
tional....Boston pays her professional choirs,
according to report, an aggregate of 142,000
a year.......One hundred and twenty poor
families in Connecticut received abundant
Christmas dinners from one man......A mill
has been invented in England in which the
grain is pounded into flour, trip hammers
taking the place of stones......Scientists say 
that the son of Agassiz promises even great-
er usefulness; and quite as wide-spread
fame as his father.....A Hindoo lady, laying 
aside the prejudices of her people, is visit-
ing in London with her husband, and con-
forming freely to the customs of the coun-
try......Albani, the American soprano, a na-
tive of Albany, has met with great success
on the stage at St. Petersburg......The torn 
and blood-stained play bill with which Lau-
ra Keene attempted to staunch the wound
of President Lincoln in his box at Ford's
Theatre, on the night of the assassination,
is still kept by Treasurer Spinner as a relic.
......The Spanish colonel, Montayer, is re-
ported a prisoner among the Cubans......The
Rothschilds are considered to be worth about
1,000,000,000—twelve of them including
their individual fortunes......The death of
the Siamese Twins is recorded in late jour-
nals.


HINTS FROM HETTIE.

	TO THE YOUNG LADIES OF UTAH.
MY DEAR FRIENDS:—
	Allow me, through the columns of the
EXPONENT, to offer you a few words.
	It is always pleasing and gratifying to me,
to be able to have my weak voice heard in
relation to the work in which we are en-
gaged.
	We are not, generally, I am afraid, aware
of the responsibilities resting upon us as
daughters of Zion.
	Although young, we have missions to
perform here on the earth, as well as those
good and honorable women who have lived
before us, and those who are yet living to
instruct us in the way in which we should


walk. Our first duty is to listen and learn.
	We should remember that we are yet
young, and liable to be led astray by the
evil influences with which we are daily sur-
rounded.
	Do not, I beg of you, young ladies,let the
“evil doer”get possession of you.
	Remember, that once in his power,you are
utterly lost, as it were; and that you will be
cast out of the society of those who have
loved you. You are no longer respected by
those with whom you were associated. They
do not wish to be in your company. Seek
after the GOOD things of the world, and let
the evil things go to the wind and be swept
from your midst. Strive to live daily and
hourly nearer and nearer to that great Be-
ing, who gave you life, that you may merit
His smiles and blessings, and have His good
spirit to lead and guide you aright continu-
ally; that it may be said of you when your
worldly career is ended “Well done thou
good and faithful servant, enter thou into
the joy of the Lord." 		HETTIE.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 16th, 1874.


TAKE IT EASY.﻿  

	Perhaps the power of well meant kindness,
can place an inexperienced individual in no
position more painfully trying than that of a
public speaker. If anything is calculated to
take all vanity and self-conceit out of a timid
person, it must be an unexpected call to make
an extemporaneous address to a large and intel-
ligent assemblage. It is unnecessary for us to
expatiate upon the feelings it produces. Those
who have realized them, know that they are in-
describable, and those who have not, could gain
but small information from an attempted des-
cription.
	But we have no idea of frightening any one
or of giving rise to a belief that the ordeal is
one which people in general could not endure.
Severe as it certainly is to one of a sensitive na-
ture, we never heard of its producing death
And we have encouragement to offer on the
subject rather than to dissuade any one from
an attempt at lecturing or public speaking. We
are pleased with having received a prescript
tion—not for a preventive of the peculiar im-
pressions of which we have spoken, we are not
aware that such exists—but a remedy which if
properly applied will serve to alleviate the pain
of the sufferer, and at length prove to be a com-
plete restorative. At the first meeting for or-
ganizing the 14th Ward Literary Association,
the Chairman gave the following illustration.
	While studying in his younger days, to be-
come an extempore speaker, he was at one time
under the tuition of a learned and noted orator,
whose business it was to criticise the addresses
made by the young men of the school. At one
time when he—the Chairman—had taken the
stand, although he had studied well the subject


upon which he was to speak, soon after he com-
menced speaking, a sudden trembling seized
him; every thing seemed a perfect blank be-
fore his mind and a flatter break down was
never completed than he then made. His crit-
ic was close at hand, and brought him to his 
senses by calmly saying, "Take it easy—don't
be in a hurry—plenty of time you know—don't
get excited." So instead of taking his seat at
this critical moment, and considering himself
beaten, the young man stood like a statue be-
fore his audience, until he had collected his
thoughts and composed himself sufficiently to
proceed with his subject. He then went on and
completed a very creditable address.
	Every one who reads it, will doubtless, readi-
ly understand the moral of this "lesson." And,
young people, study, reflect, and make your-
selves familiar with subjects of general inter-
est. Then, when you are before an assembly to
deliver an address, "don't be in a hurry" don't
forget there is "plenty of time." And when
you feel a fluttering nervous, sensation coming
over you, remember the remedy and "take it
easy."


BIRTH-DAY GREETING.

	The 21st of Jan., 1874, was the seventieth an-
niversary of the birth-day of Miss Eliza R.
Snow.
	Early in the evening of that day, she was
called upon by a goodly number of the sisters,
who met in honor of the day—to pay their res-
pects to her, and offer congratulations. Although
a surprise, the reception and greeting were most
cordial and happy Miss Snow expressed her
gratification and recognition of the high honor
conferred by her sisters, in those renewed testi-
monies of regard in their kind remembrances
on that her seventieth birth-day. She said that
the day had been a pleasant one, and, to her
that anniversary was the most satisfactory of
any within her remembrance. It was a pleas-
ing reflection that she was really seventy years
of age.
	Remarks suitable to the occasion, were made
by Mrs. M.I. Horne, Mrs. M.T. Smoot and others,
when the following lines were read:

		SEVENTY YEARS OLD.

 GREETING TO MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.

Daughter of heaven, beloved and blest!
Of richest rarest gifts possess'd;
Bright gems of wisdom, fairest pearls of thought,
Bestowed by heaven's own hand, divinely wrought
With faith and hope, and with such charity,
That knowing, we, in meek simplicity,
As friends, as sisters, dare these boons extend,
With cheerful hearts, not fearing to offend.

With love, with confidence, and gratitude
For all thy teachings and examples good,
We bless thee—name thee worthy to be blest
With all earth’s bounties, richest, sweetest, best.
And more, the Treasures of Eternity
In glorious fulness are in store for thee.
And Zion’s daughters gather ’round thee here;
To offer greetings and fond words of cheer.

Have we not known thee, proven, tried and true––
And feel we not; all this and more is due?
Hast thou not blest us all, and each apart––
And know we not the yearnings of thy heart—
Thy soul’s desire for Zion’s EVERY WEAL––
Do not the Works the Laborer's Self reveal?
Live on, work on, still firm and bold.
Though Seventy years, thou art not old.

How kindly doth our Father’s will,
Yet spare thee to thy sisters still!
And firmer grow thy faith and might,
Yet long to battle for the right;
For this thy sisters humbly pray––
That thou mayest cheer and bless the way,
And bear with grace each coming test—
Daughter of heaven, beloved and blest.

	After the reading, Mrs. Z. D. Young remarked
that the poem spoke the feelings of all present


——Miss Snow was much moved by the warm and
heartfelt expressions of appreciation from the
sisters—briefly responding by saying that her
heart was too full for utterance—she was grate-
ful to God and to her sisters for all the testimo-
nials of love and confidence, which made her
feel very humble, and desirous of living wor-
thy of the blessing bestowed.
	It was an evening never to be forgotten by
those present. Indeed, we think a more inter-
esting and enjoyable was seldom, if ever, spent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


STRONG-MINDED WOMEN.

	Mrs. Mary I. Horne, President of the 14th
Ward Relief Society, and also of the Co-opera-
tive Retrenchment Associations in this city,
considers herself a strong-minded woman. Not,
she says, in the common acceptance of the 
term, but in taking the words for what they
really mean. She thinks that any woman who
lives above reproach in all respects, who honors
her calling as a wife and mother and who seeks
to assist in the bringing forth of reforms, cal-
culated to benefit and bless mankind, may
justly be considered strong-minded, and that
there is no stigma attached to the term when
applied to such. We heartily concur in these
sentiments. Some weeks since, one of the
agents for the EXPONENT called upon us. While
in conversation, she remarked that a lady to
whom she had offered the EXPONENT rejected
it, saying that she was not a "strong-minded
woman." We agreed that she could not have
been. And when our visitor asked if we consid-
ered her-the agent-a strong-minded woman, we
unintentionally gave her an unpleasant feeling,
by readily replying in the affirmative.
	In our estimation, it is not the strongest or
greatest minds of the earth, that are continu-
ally reaching after something which they do not
possess, while neglecting to make proper use of
blessings and privileges within their reach.
But even these, though mistaken in their aims,
we regard as not so weak as those who do not
undertake to learn their duties as social beings
on the earth. Who neither possess ambition to
accomplish the good which lies within their
power to do, nor to advance to higher pursuits,
	If woman, to perform her mission wisely,
must work as well as man, it is as much her
duty to think as it is his. And if she must ob-
serve all laws as he must, she has as great need
to understand them, and as much right to as-
sist in framing them.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	AFTER VISITING the Representative's Hall of
the Legislature now in session in this city, an
intelligent lady remarked that she "saw noth-
ing being done there that women could not do."
We have reason to believe that the liberality of
at least the majority of the honorable body of
Representatives, would lead them to acceed to
this particular view of the lady.

	THERE HAS lately been organized, in the 14th
Ward, "A young peoples' literary association,"
with Mr. A. Miner as President.  This associa-
tion is instead of a young gentlemen's or young
ladies' society; and the result of such co-opera-
tion will probably be more beneficial to both
sexes than would be derived from an organiza-
tion of either separately. Although the organ-
ization has been formed for the special advan-
tage and improvement of the young people of
the Ward, we understand that their constitu-
tion admits to membership any person of good
moral character, without reference to age or
place of residence.


FROM THE "Juvenile Instructor" of Jan. 17th,
we learn that at a convention of Sunday School
superintendents and teachers, held at Provo
City, Utah Co., a County Sunday School Union
was formed. We are pleased to mark the grow-
ing interest which is manifested in different
parts of the Territory, in the cause of Sabbath
Schools, and of general education.

	IT SHOULD be remembered by the ladies of
this city, that Monday, the 9th inst., is the day
set apart for the election of municipal officers.
And each one should show her appreciation of
the right of franchise which she holds, by be-
ing promptly on hand, and fully prepared to do
her part intelligently in the matter of electing
officers for the city.

	THE WORK on the Utah Northern Rail Road
is progressing finely. We learned from Mr
Chas. Nibley, the general Freight and Ticket
agent, who was in town the other day, that the
cars would run to Ogden in a few days.

	BLANCHE BEECHWOOD sends us an apologet-
ical note, on account of the length of her arti-
cle which appears in this issue. We accept her
apology, and, although preferring that our cor-
respondents would write briefly, believing that
most of our readers have the same preference,
we advise every one who reads the EXPONENT,
to read the article referred to, under the head-
ing of "Our Daughters."


A BEAUTIFUL TRIBUTE TO A WIFE.

	I was guided in my affections only by the
blind affections of my youth. I found an
intelligent companion and a tender friend,
a prudent monitress, the most faithful of
wives, and a mother as tender as children
ever had the misfortune to lose. I met a
woman who, by tender management of my
weaknesses, gradually corrected the most
pertinacious of them. She became prudent
from affection; and though of the most gen-
erous nature, she was taught frugality and
economy by her love in me. During the
most critical moment of my life she relieved
me. She gently reclaimed me from dissi-
pation; she propped my weak and irresolute
nature; she urged my indolence to all the
exertions that have been useful or credita-
ble in me, and she was perfectly at hand to
admonish my heedlessness or improvidence.
To her I owe whatever I am; to her what-
ever I shall be. In her solicitude for my
interest she never for a moment forgot my
feelings or character. Even in her occasional
resentment, for which I but too often gave
her cause (would to God I could recall those
moments!) she had no sullenness or acrimo-
ny. Her feelings were warm, nay, impetu-
ous; but she was placable, tender and con-
stant. Such was she whom I have lost, when
her excellent natural sense was rapidly im-
proving, after eight years' struggle and dis-
tress had bound us fast together, and molded
our tempers to each other; when a knowl-
edge of her worth had refined my youthful
love into friendship, and before age had de-
prived it of much of its original ardor. I
lost her, alas! the choice of my youth, the
partner of my misfortunes, at a moment
when I had prospects of her sharing my bet-
ter days.—Sir James McIntosh.


No man stumbles upon success. Good luck
may open the way to the front, but he will
never reach it without brains. "What do
you mix your paints with?" asked a visitor
of Opie, the painter. "With brains sir,"
was the reply.


THE SEX.

	MRS. J. H. BIGGERS was elected copying
clerk by the California Legislature.

	WOMAN'S HOPES are woven of sunbeams;
shadows annihilate them.—George Eliot.

	MRS. ALEX. Agassiz, wife of the son of
Prof. Agassiz, died Dec. 22 of pneumonia.

	MISS CLARISSA Petit of Logansport, Ind.,
wears a $300 gold watch on the strength of
being the most popular lady in the city, ac-
cording to ballot.

	A Covington (Ky.) girl lent her shawl to
an invalid gentleman, riding in a stage, and
when he handed it back there was a $500
greenback pinned to the shawl.

	The Walker prize of Boston Society of
Natural History was won by Alexander
Agassiz. A deserved compliment to the
studious son of an honored father.

	THE FOUR hundred girls at Vassar College
are obliged to rise at 5 o'clock in the morn-
ing and are not allowed to have any beaux
except in the presence of three old women.

	AMONG THE ninety-six applicants for a
degree in the medical school of the Univer-
sity of Michigan, Miss Emma Call, daugh-
ter of A. A. Call, of Boston, carried off the
palm.

	AFTER THE Michigan Constitutional Com-
mission had vetoed the proposition to let
women hold office, Commissioner Ferry of-
fered, for separate submission to the peo-
ple, a proposition extending the right of suf-
frage to women.

	THE "JEWISH Messenger" exhorts the
Jewesses not to imitate the follies of Chris-
tian women in dressing for church. The
editor thinks in many of the churches wor-
ship is a full-dress affair, consisting in a dis-
play of finery, rather than devotion oft, hear

	THE FIRST daily paper printed in the En-
glish language was published in London, in 
1702, by a woman—one ELIZABETH MALLET.
It was called the Daily Courant, and was
not issued as a Woman's Rights paper, but
"to spare the public at least half the imper-
tinence which the ordinary papers contain."

	MRS. WEBB of Melbourne, has published
a pamphlet, entitled the Woman's Advocate,
in which she recommends that a bill should
be introduced into Parliament for establish-
ing a widow's fund, contributed to by every
husband, that no widow may be left desti-
tute. Also a maiden's fund, to which all
bachelors must contribute, that no maidens
may be left destitute after forty.

	MRS. ELLEN Sheely was among the bid-
ders in St. Louis, lately, for grading five
streets. the "Republican" of that city says:
"All the bids were very judicious and
evinced a knowledge of the business not in-
ferior to the oldest of our contractors. The
bids were very close on the mark, and the
contracts were only lost by a few cents. Mrs.
Sheely, as administratrix of her husband's
estate, completed an extensive piece of grad-
ing, last fall, for which he was contractor, in
the western part of the city, and is there-
fore not without experience in the business."


Geo. F. Robinson has received the medal
awarded to him by Congress in 1871 for sav-
ing the life of Secretary Seward, when at-
tacked by the assassin Payne, on the night
of the 14th of April, 1865. The medal was
made at the United States mint in Philadel-
phia, at a cost of fourteen hundred dollars.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			JANUARY.

The fair South Wind, with the magical key
	To unlock Earth's cold fetters of ice,
Came singing of Southland about us to-day
	With tenderly tremulous voice.

She played with old Winter,s long icicled hair,
	With blandishments soothed him to sleep,
Then sprinkled with raindrops his carpet so fair,
	Which melted in rills 'round his feet.

She breathed on the diamonds which studed his crown—
	His rare—lustered jewels of frost
They melted, and trickling his wrinkled cheeks down,
	Plashed into the rills and were lost.

Then she mimicked and flouted the doting old man,
	And dabbled her feet in the rills,
Till bubbling with laughter the giddy brooks ran,
	But weeping were all the white hills.

But the stern old King woke from his slumber at last,
	And quickly perceiving her jeers,
He shook his wet locks, in his terrible wrath,
	And his glance froze the hills' tender tears.

He sent for fresh gems from his treasures untold,
	His rolling cloud-banners unfurled;
And called up the North Wind so cruel and bold
	To hunt the pert Miss through the world.

He came with his legions in frost-armor mailed,
	and with needle-keen darts poised in air—
They shrieked and they shouted and fiercely they wailed
	Like demons escaped from their lair.

The maid, at their coming, in trembling affright,
	Fled back to her innermost cell,
While furious North Wind, with torches alight,
	Obeyed stern old Winter King well.

He searched every dwelling with ruthless intent,
	He shouted through each lonely dell,
He shrieked down ravines 'mid the mountain-tops pent
	And all night his hoarse voice rose and fell.

His power supreme none might dare to deny,
	So, though quaking in terror and dread,
The meek driven snow, with a shivering sigh,
	Once more for a carpet was spread.

At last dawned the morning, stark. lifeless and cold,
	Enshrouded in vestments of white;
And though South Wind was safe 'mong her flowers of
		gold,
	All her rills had been slain in the night.
  Jan. 1874.						LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	SOME REASONS why poverty and want ex-
ist; Bones are burned that would make
soaps. Nice handled-knives are thrown into
hot water and spoiled. Dish-cloths are
thrown where mice can destroy them. Tubs
and barrels are left in the sun to dry and 
fall apart. Clothes are left on the line to 
whip to pieces in the wind. Pie-crust is
left to sour, instead of making a few tarts
for tea. Vegetables are thrown away that
would warm for breakfast. Dried fruit is
not taken care of in season, and becomes
wormy. Bits of meat are thrown out that
would make hashed meat or hash. The
cork is left out of the molasses jug, and flies
take posession. Pork spoils for the want of
salt, and beef because the brine wants scald-
ing. Coffee, tea, pepper and spices are left
standing open, and lose their strength. Po-
tatoes in the cellar grow, and the sprouts are
not removed until they are useless. Flour
is sifted in a wasteful manner, and the bake-
pan left with the dough sticking to it. Vin-
egar is drawn in a tin basin, and allowed to
stand til both basin and vinegar are spoiled.
Cold puddings are considered good for noth-
ing, when often they can be steamed for
the next day.—[The Press in General.] Still
other reasons: Men lounge about corners,
grog shops and stores, when they should be
building or repairing poultry houses. Men
hang over patches of unbroken fences, talk-
ing of anything to kill time and leave the
broken panels unmended until stock get
in and destroy “Garden sauce” enough to
supply the family table a month. Wash tubs
are taken to the barn to wash horses legs in,
[Column 2]
﻿and are left to get dry and fall to staves.
Manure is allowed to go to waste when it
should be applied to land. Wagons are run
without greasing until a heavy black smith’s
bill is the consequence. Men take plow
shares to the shop to get them sharpened
and get to playing a "little game" in the
whiskey-mill close by, and forget the plow
until it is too late to use it that day, so they
go on playing one game after another, until
they are too drunk to use it the next day.
Ropes and sacks are thrown down and trod-
den under feet of horses.—Ex.
	A DAMPENED flannel will clean chair
cushions better than a feather duster.
	SCOTCH SNUFF will drive away red ants.
Scatter it on your shelves, and see how
quickly they will go.
	WHEN SILVER wants polish, take a piece
of soft leather and some whiting and rub
hard. The proprietor of one of the oldest es-
tablishments in Philadelphia,says that house-
keepers ruin their silver by washing it in
soap suds, as it makes it look like pewter.
	STOVE LUSTRE when mixed with turpen-
tine and applied in the usual manner, is
blacker, more glossy and more durable than
when mixed with any other liquid. The
turpentine prevents rust, and when put on
an old, rusty stove will make it look as well
as new.
	SALT IS a simple remedy for many things.
It will cure sick headache, make cream
freeze, make the butter come,take inkstains
out of cloth of any kind, kill wens, kill
worms, make the ground cool, so that it is
more congenial to celery, cabbage, etc.; ease
the itching pain caused by irritable skin dis-
ease, hives, itch, etc., produce vomiting or
stop it, as you like; and many other things
too numerous to mention.
	HOW TO COOK CRANBERRIES.—Add one
teacup of cold water to a quart of cranber-
ries, and put them on in a porcelain or other
preserving kettle. After cooking ten min-
utes, add two heaping cups of sugar and
cook about ten minutes longer, stirring con-
stantly from the time they are put on. Pour
out into a bowl, and, when cold, it can be
removed as jelly from a mold. The berries
will seem very dry before the sugar is added,
but if more water is put in they will not
form jelly.
	CHEAP VINEGAR.—Take a quantity of
common Irish potatoes, wash them until
they are thoroughly clean, place them in a
large vessel, and boil them until done. Drain
off carefully the water they were cooked in,
straining it, if necessary, in order to remove
every particle of the potato. Then put this
potato water into a jug or keg, which set
near the stove, or in some place where it
will be kept warm, and add one pound of su-
gar to about two and one-half gallons of the
water, some hop yeast, or a small portion of
whiskey. Let it stand three or four weeks,
and you will have excellent vinegar, at a
cost of six or seven cents per gallon.
	TO REMOVE mold stains from books with-
out injuring the paper, the Scientific Ameri-
can gives the following directions:—1. Wet
with pure, clean water. 2. Soak in a dilute
solution of bleaching powder. 3. Pass
through water made sour to the taste by
muriatic acid. 4. Soak in pure water until
all traces of acid are removed, and dry. It
is not necessary to say that this operation
requires careful manipulation. You may
try, instead, exposing the moistened paper
to the fumes of burning sulphur, which is a
good bleaching agent, and then passing it
through water and drying.


FLOWERS.

	GOOD, THE more communicated more
abundant grows.

	TRUTHS LIE scattered broadcast through
the ages, waiting eyes to see them.

	AFTER ALL, what we make out of life
depends upon how we communicate with
life.

	GRATITUDE is the throwing out of our
hearts in the light of another's kindness.—
H. W. Beecher.

	IT IS a great mistake to set up our stand-
ard of right and excellence, and judge peo-
ple accordingly.

	IT IS always safe to learn, even from our
enemies; seldom safe to venture to instruct,
even our friends.

	THE HISTORY of civilization may be sum-
marized in nine words: the more one knows,
the more one can perform.

	HOW INDESTRUTABLY the good grows
and propagates itself, even among the
weedy entanglements of evil.—Carlyle.

	THREE QUESTIONS to be put to ourselves
before speaking ill of any man:—First, is it
true? Second, is it right? Third, is it nec-
essary?

	THEN, SAID his Lordship, "Well, God
mend all!" "Nay, Donald, we must help
Him to mend it!" said the other.—Rush-
worth.

	THE TRUE glory of a nation is the full
recognition of the rights of its working
people. They are the basis of all its wealth
and prosperity.

	THERE IS no man's mind of so discordant
and jarring a temper, to which a tunable
disposition may not strike a harmony.—Sir
Thomas Browne.

	NO GOOD that the humblest of us has
wrought ever dies. There is one long, un-
erring memory in the universe, out of which
nothing good ever fades.

	CONSCIENCE IS a great ledger book, in
which all our offences are written and reg-
istered, and which time reveals to the sense
and feeling of the offender.—Burton.

	USEFUL INDUSTRY does not so much con-
sist in being continually busy as in doing
promptly those things which are of the first
importance, and will eventually prove most
profitable.

	SUCCESS RIDES on every hour; grapple it
and you may win, but without a grapple it
will never go with you. Work is the wea-
pon of honor, and he who lacks the weapon
will never triumph.

	THE ACTION of the soul is oftener in that
which is felt and left unsaid, than in that
which is said in any conversation. It broods
over every society, and men unconsciously
seek for it in each other.—Emerson.

	THE KING, in reality, is well served;
neither life nor fortune is considered when
his pleasure is the question. If we were as
well disposed toward God, we should be
saints indeed.—Madam de Sevigne.

	THERE IS no doubt of the essential nobil-
ity of that man who pours into his life the
honest vigor of his toil, over those who
compose the feathery foam of fashion that
sweeps along Broadway; and who ignoring
the family history, paint coats-of-arms to
cover up the leather of their grandfathers.
—Chapin.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT
	ADVANTAGES OF BEING OLD.

	      INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL.

	For once in my life, I was thankful for be-
ing recognized "an elderly lady." When
on a journey, all the way from Utah to Can-
ada East, a distance of 2,500 miles I was
frequently in circumstances, where, had I
been a young woman of an attractive and
fashionable type, I should have been under
great embarrassment. One or two incidents
I will mention, by way of illustration. At
Rome, N.Y. I had to change cars to go
north; all the other lady passengers were
going on to Montreal. The cars halted at
the depot, late in the night; I must wait
for the 6 o'clock train; where should I go?
there was no coach at hand. A gentleman
passenger accosted me with kind solicitude,
saying, "Madam, do you wish to go to a hotel,
where you can remain till the morning
train arrives?" I replied, "I do sir, but I know
not where to go." "With your permission
I will conduct you to a respectable house,
and commit you to the care of the Land-
lord, who will treat you kindly," was his
next remark. I thanked him, and accepted
his offer. I had two shawls and a carpet bag
to carry, (left my trunk,) he would take all
my things, and we started in the dark, for,
I knew not where. I thought he must be a
good man, he was so handsome, and well
dressed. I knew he ought to be, at least.
And so it proved, for he took me to a good
place, and told the Landlord to have me
ready for the morning train. As we were
walking, he inquired from whence I came?
I replied, "from Utah." He did not seem
excited over it so I felt safe in his company.
	Another instance, on my return journey,
I will mention. I had a "lay over ticket,"
for Sandwich, Illinois. I expected to arrive
before dusk, but some failure in the ma-
chinery, hindered the train a full hour. O,
how impatiently I waited for the cars to roll
on! fearing I might be troubled to find the
residence of my friend by night. A young
man stood at the foot of the steps, as I went
down. I inquired if he was a resident there,
and if he knew Mr. Trouslot, a French gen-
tleman, and would he direct me to the
house? He knew him well, and his family;
could give me directions: but added, "As it
is quite a distance, and no coach in readi-
ness, I had better go with you, or you may
lose your way." I was very thankful and
said many civil things. He relieved me of
what I had to carry, and presently knocked
at the door of a nicely finished building, and
I was ushered into the presence of my old
Nauvoo friend and relative; he proffered the
young man so many thanks for his polite-
ness to me, that he expressed himself more
than paid, in having been a witness of the
surprize and joy to which he had contribu-
ted. I spent a happy night and day with
my friends; and the next evening when
they conducted me to the cars, the same
gentleman stood on the platform, helped me
up the steps and put my baggage aboard.
I set his name down in my day book, and
felt thankful that there was a little genuine
politeness in the world. I recollect think-
ing as we were walking together that night,
"I am in a strange place with a stranger to
guide me, but all is well; I am 'an old
woman,' he is a young man, he will practice
no deception upon me."
	These incidents may appear to the reader
only common-place matters, but to me they
seemed worthy of notice; for I had not for-
gotten the fright I once experienced when
travelling by stage in the State of Vermont,
a State renowned for honesty and religion. 

[Column 2]
I was then a young girl and had been very
little from home. The coach stopped at a
hotel in Rutland, for the night; the house
had every appearance of being a respectable
one; and such, I believe, the owner intend-
ed it to be; but he was not a wide awake
man, besides he was a "bachelor"—how
could he keep a respectable house? I was
shown by the waiting maids, to my room;
I bolted my door and laid down to sleep.
Presently I heard noises in the hall, and
knocks on the door of my room. I was at
once convinced that there were evil design-
ing men in that hotel. I was electrified
with fear! I knew not whether I breathed!
But frightened as I was, I summoned cour-
age to say in a sonorous tone, "Leave my
door! I will report this house for a hundred
miles 'round, and warn all honest people to
shun it." The noise went farther off, and I
only heard it faintly; but no sleep was there
for me. I counted the minutes till the bell
rang at 4 o'clock, for me to be ready for the
stage. I dressed myself quickly, and thank-
ful was I to be again on the road, and breath-
ing the pure air. That day I was fortunate
in falling in company with an elderly lady
and her husband. I told my story to her,
she sympathized, and took me under her
care. The following night she engaged a
room with accommodations for us both. I
succeeded in reaching my home in Canada
with no further excitement; and resolved
never to travel again without an immediate
protector. From Burlington, Vt., I wrote
an indignation letter, addressed to that Rut-
land Landlord, denouncing the conduct he
suffered in his house.
	Four years after, having been married,
and settled in the State of New York, I
ventured on another journey, a much longer
one, without my companion; but then, I had
a little child in my arms. I felt that she
was a protection. She was a year and four
months old, had had great pains taken with
her, to render her attractive and make her
feel at home among strangers. An amiable
child wins for a mother respect and polite
attentions. No journey could have been
performed with more ease and pleasure.
And the reception we met in "the old, old
home," left heavenly memories, which came
to my worn spirit in after time, when bat-
tling with life's burdens. Until, after thirty-
eight years had passed away, I went on a
pilgrimage to the same old home, when
trust in God, and multiplied years, were my
safe-guards. I now declare in favor of
children, and old age. Let no one regret
being old. 			L. B. PRATT.
Beaver, Jan. 13th.


HOW TO USE YOUR EXPERIENCE.

	Here is some good counsel from Mr. Spur-
geon, concerning the duty of experience:
When an experienced Christian merely uses
his experience for his own comfort, or as a
standard by which to judge his fellow-Chris-
tians, or make use of it for self-exaltation, as
though he were infinitely superior to the
most zealous young men, such a man mars
his talent, does mischief with it, and makes
himself heavily responsible. I beseech you
who have long walked in the way of godli-
ness to use your experience continually in
your visitation of the sick, in your conver-
sations with the poor, in your meetings with
young beginners, in your dealings with
backsliders; let your paths drop fatness; let
the anointing God has given you fall upon
those who are round about you.


﻿The fashion wears out more apparel than
the man.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	There are now fifty-two papers published
in Japan.

	Rimmel sold £20,000 worth of perfumes
at the Vienna Fair.

	A New Hampshire farmer has made 18,
000 bushels of potatoes into starch.

	Vermont has 26,983 farmers, three florists,
122 gardeners and nurserymen and seven-
teen stock drovers.

	The Post-Office Department is now more
nearly self-sustaining than any other branch
of the Government.

	Pennsylvania taxes herself $9,000,000 a
year for the education of her children in the
common schools.

	Nine insane patients from San Francisco
have been received at the State Insane Asy-
lum within four days.

	Local taxation in Ireland during the past
year has amounted to nearly £3,000,000, or
about 10s. 9d. per head.

	Switzerland exports $43,000,000 worth of
manufactured silks annually, and the manu-
facture there is rapidly increasing.

	J. J. C. Gillespie, cashier of the freight de-
partment of the Michigan Southern Rail-
road, is a defaulter to the amount of $70,000.

	A lady in Edinburgh wears a mole-skin
mantle manufactured from the coats of near-
ly 600 moles captured on her own property.

	Col. James Howe, nephew of senator Howe
of Wisconsin, gave up a salary of $12,000 a
year to accept the position of U.S. District
Judge.

	Mr. Leslie of Newcastle, Eng., the builder
of the Ville du Havre, has contributed $2,
500 for the relief of the sufferers by the loss
of that vessel.

	Miss Myrna Gurney, of South Abington,
has put six months and 40,000 stitches into
a life-sized worsted work portrait of George
Washington.

	Southern people are trying to raise by sub-
scription the sum of $20,000, which remains
unpaid upon the statue of "Stonewall"
Jackson.

	It is said that the Queen Dowager of
Prussia lost $500,000 by the failure of the
famous banking house of Quistorp at Ber-
lin, and that a prince of the Imperial family
will suffer to a greater extent.

	The greatest herdsman in the world is the
title claimed for Samuel W. Allen of Texas,
who owns 225,000 cattle. He has one ranch
eighty miles long and forty wide between
the Nevada and Colorado rivers.

	It is asserted that the Patrons of Husband-
ry of Iowa have saved the past year, in the
purchase of reapers alone, $350,000, and by
avoiding middle-men in both selling and
buying have saved not less than $1,000,000.

	The amount appropriated by parliamen-
tary grants for elementary education in
England and Wales rose from eight shillings
per scholar in 1863 to twelve shillings in
1873. About five million dollars a year is now
expended on free schools.

	The California Silk Company makes a
very prosperous report. They employ sixty
hands, mostly girls, and manufacture machine
and sewing silk, twist, tram, organzine, fringe
and hair silk.


136			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS. 
				 AGENTS.
				Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,		Mrs. Elvira Barney
"	Margt. P. Young,		"      Amanda Kimball
"	Lily Staines,			"       Elizabeth Davis
"	Sarah Smith,			"       Hampton, 16th
"	Mary J.Thomson,				Ward
"	Margaret Steel,		"	Sarah E. Smith,
			Miss Sarah  E. Russell.

			CORRESPONDENTS
Mrs. Laura.Miner, 			Mrs. E.B. Wells
"	A.B. Smith,			Miss Mary E. Cook.
			 	AGENTS, 
		Weber Connty,
 A.M. Frodsham, Ogden, 
		Oneida County, Idaho.
  Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles, 
  " Mary Rich, Paris.
		Rich County
" Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek. 
"  Emily Woodruff, Randolph
		Cache County.
"  M. A. Maughan, Logan, 
"  Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
"  H. A Shaw, Hyrum.
		Box Elder County.
"  Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
		Davis County.
" Mary Clark, Farmington;
" Aurelia Rogers, "
" Margaret Randell, Centreville,
" Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
" Susan Grant,  		"
" Sylvia Clark,  		"
		Salt Lake County.
" ------- Higgins, West Jordan,
"  Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
tonwood.
		Tooele County.
Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
Mrs. E. Clegg,			"
Mrs. M, A. House, Grantsville.
		Utah County.
" ------Brown, Pleasant Grove,
"  Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
"  — Harrison, 	"
"  Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
"  Rebecca Standering, Lehi.
		Juab County
"  Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
"  Ann Pitchforth,
"  Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
"  Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
		Sanpete County.
"  M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
	City,
" Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
"  Helena Madison, Gunnison.
Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
Mrs. Mary Thorpe,
		Millard County.
"  Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
"  Belinda M. Pratt, 
Miss Mary Callister,
		Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver.
"  L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
		Iron County.
"  Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith,
Mrs. Ellen Lunt, Cedar Ciiy.
"  Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
  Cedar City.
		Kane County.
Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kaharra, 
	Washington County.
" Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
  St. George,
"  Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.
Mrs. Mary Confield, Hamlin’s  Fort.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	A new toy for boys is a bear about two
feet high, which, upon being wound up,
growls and stands erect on his hind legs in
true bear style. These toys are made in
Munich.
	It is not generally known that among the
many other interesting incidents in the life
of President Andrew Jackson, he was twice
married to the same woman, a former Mrs.
Rachel Robards, daughter of Mrs. Donelson,
the widow of Colonel John Donelson, an em-
igrant from Virginia to Tennessee.
	All great leaders have been inspired with
a great belief. In nine cases out of ten,
failure is born of unfaith. Tennyson sings,
“Faith and unfaith can ne'er be equal pow-
ers." To be a great leader, and so always
master of the situation, one must of neces-
sity have been a great thinker in action.
	IT IS the weakness of some good men to
speak of man as miserable rather than
guilty. Indeed it becomes one who has ob-
tained mercy to pity rather than condemn.
Yet compassion should be mixed with a holy
indignation; for we may indulge a tender-
ness to offenders till we lose sight of the
abomination of sin.
	Happy indeed is the man or woman who
learns the lesson of gratitude for daily bless-
ings; for unbroken sleep, for convenient
food, for the necessity of labor, for the disci-
pline of sorrow, the enjoyment of one's
senses, for pure air and abundant water, and
is not envious or unhappy because a brother
commands something he or she cannot en-
joy.
	Jean Paul Richter says:—“To insure mod-
esty, I would advise the educating of the
sexes together; for two boys will preserve
twelve girls, or two girls twelve boys, inno-
cent, amid winks, jokes, and improprieties,
merely by that instinctive sense which is
the forerunner of matured modesty. But I
will gaurantee nothing in a school where
girls are alone together, and still less where
boy are.”
	A colored philosopher thus unburdened
himself on one of woman's weaknesses:
"Jim, de men don't make such fools of dem-
selves about women as de women do about
men. If dey look at de moon dey see a
man in it; and if dey hear a mouse nibbling,
it’s a man; and dey all look under de bed
last thing at night to find a man. Why I
nebber looks under my bed to find a woman
—does you?”
	An Indian maiden of fourteen years,
named Minnie Emunesky, or "White Fea-
ther," died on Sunday in Boston. She was
the sole survivor of the Cheyenne Indians
massacred some years ago at Sand river by
orders of an officer who was dismissed from
the service for the barbarous act. She was
adopted by a Boston family, and great atten-
tion paid to her education. The United
States authorities settled upon her 640 acres
of land, which now reverts to the nation.
	You should not only be religious and love
religion; you should make religion attrac-
tive, useful, and agreeable to every one
around. The sick will like your religion if
it leads you to tend them, your family will
be attracted to it if they see you more care-
ful in your duties, more patient, more dili-
gent, more gentle in finding fault. If your
husband sees that, as you become more de-
vout, you are also more affectionate to him,
more tenderly submissive, he will be won
to your religion. In a word, let your relig-
ion be as winning to others as possible.


WHEN THE Duke of Edinburgh visited
Birmingham, recently a fervid old lady el-
bowed her way to the front of the crowd, ex-
claiming, “God bless you! How’s your dear
mother?”


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D. 

		     ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours––10 a. m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
		     Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE.
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase. 

		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of  President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


MRS. S. M. PARKER, of the Fourth Dis-
trict of Indiana, is the first lady ever ap-
pointed Collector of Internal Revenue.

	A Beautiful Farewell.—Dr. Todd’s last
message to his church, sent on a Sabbath
evening, contained this passage;—“Tell them
that I have unwavering faith in Christ and
his salvation, and that I am waiting and
hoping for light, from the eternal world.
I want to see that light and I think that I
shall. 'Though I walk through the valley
of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.'
And so I stand at the gate like a little child,
waiting for it to open and give me a glimpse
of the glory.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1874.		NO. 18.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A RELIGIOUS man in Oregon refused to
join the Grangers because "they had let
women in." It is a great pity such men
have not a world to themselves.
	THE CORCORAN Art Gallery is built of
brick and brown stone and is said to be one
of the handsomest buildings in Washington,
D. C. It was opened to the public, as a fine
art exhibition on the 19th ult.
	DR. DIO Lewis thinks a baby should not
sleep with its parents because it must, when
placed thus, be constantly enhaling the im-
pure breath and poisonous emanations from
the bodies of the adults. The objection ap-
pears to be a reasonable one.
	DENMAN, THE School Superintendent of
San Francisco, has suspended nineteen
teachers, for repeated tardiness in entering
upon morning duties. This does not speak
so well for the enterprising spirit in the
cause of education in that city.
RACHEL, THE French actress, is said to
have received a salary of only $7,200 a year,
in her best time. If that [---] [--] [---] sal-
ary for "playing," what estimate should be
placed upon the labors of those who work
hard, many of whom receive less than half
that amount?
	ONE OF the sadest stories of recent date,
is told by a young woman who was saved
from the "Ville de Havre." She gives
her name as Miss Edgar. Being an expert
swimmer, she was able for a long time to
support herself and her mother in the wa-
ter. But at last becoming numbed and ex-
hausted, she could no longer cling to that
one—her best and dearest of all earthly
friends—and unable to assist her farther,
saw her slowly sink away and settle under
the water, scarcely a moment before the
boat appeared, by which she was rescued.
	TRAGEDIES ARE now transacted as fre-
quently, or nearly so, at the home hearth,
in some parts of the country, as upon the
stage of the theatre. Within three days,
but recently, we have found cases recorded
of as many wife murders, in news jour-
nals from different localities. In giving a
moment's reflection to these terrible state-
ments, we are led to wonder why Utah and
her domestic institutions, in which rarely
if ever any thing of a like nature may be
chronicled as local, should be derided or con-
demned by any other portion of the world—
more particularly by any woman.
	A LADY writer has stated that twelve
years ago she came west with the prospect
of speedy death, according to one of New
England’s best physicians. But she now re-
joices in perfect health restored. And this
happy result she attributes to the interesting
occupation of "bee tending," which has
kept her much of the time in the open air.
She recommends this healthy vocation to
women, especially those delicately inclined.
Whether the "bee tending" is beneficial as
a health restoritive or not—and we doubt
not it would so prove in many instances—
open air exercise is what thousands of peo-
ple suffer for, when believing themselves
in need of other, less simple remedies.
[Column 2]
	WE FIND the following in the "Washing-
ton Capital" of a late date. "A good, or
rather a bad story has leaked out and is in
active circulation regarding a famous sena-
tor, whose name has figured extensively in
these columns, as it has throughout the
country. It seems that a very respectable
lady, once a belle and yet quite handsome,
finding herself beggared by the present fi-
nancial crisis, sought employment from the
Government. She brought a letter of in-
troduction to our able-bodied senator and
had an appointment made with him, at his
request, in a committee-room of the Senate.
They met alone, and the solon soon shifted
himself from the chair to the sofa upon
which the lady sat; and then, as he grew
interested in her, put his senatorial arm
about her slender waist and attempted to
bring the orifice of his intellectual edifice,
called, through courtesy, a head, to bear on
her mouth. The poor woman, struggling
from his brutal assault, started up and asked
the man what he meant by such an insult.
"Insult! insult Madam!" responded the
solon. "I meant no insult; this is the neces-
sary preliminary to [--] [--] service exami-
nation." We need not say that this neces-
sary preliminary ended there and then, and
the poor, distressed woman was seen to steal
from the Capitol building crying over the in-
dignity and degredation offered her." We
have no authority upon which to mention
the name of the honorable (?) "solon," of
whom this story is related; but we doubt
not that he is a near relative, in spirit at
least, to those generous, pitying souls who
are so anxious to have Congress do something
for the emancipation of the “poor, ignorant,
illused women of Utah.”
	HENRY B. Blackwell, of the “Woman’s
Journal,” has a good deal to say, and says it
in rather forcible language, concerning the
measures taken by certain members in Con-
gress with the view of disfranchising the
women of Utah. We clip the following:
The repeal of Woman Suffrage was not even
alluded to during a long debate in the Sen-
ate upon a bill which disfranchises the
women of Utah and which makes any fu-
ture attempt by a woman to vote, a misde-
meanor punishable with fine and imprison-
ment, and prohibits the men of the Terri-
tory from ever again extending Suffrage to
women. This is, indeed, a conclusive evi-
dence of the necessity of Woman Suffrage!
Think of it! Senator Wilson was present,
who had himself introduced a Bill to give
women Suffrage in the Territories. Half-a-
dozen other Senators, known to be in favor
of Woman Suffrage, were present. And yet
these men all sat silent and several of them
voted for this bill which takes away suffrage
from the women of Utah. Henceforth let
women trust no man to represent their po-
litical interests who is not elected in part by
the votes of women. It is a crowning evi-
dence of the truth of the maxim that "no 
one class can safely be trusted to represent
another." * * * The population of Utah
is divided into two hostile classes, Mormons
and Gentiles. The Mormon voters, even
without the women, largely exceed the
Gentiles in number. But this preponder-
ance is increased by the votes of the women
because almost all the women of Utah hap-
[Column 3]
pen to be Mormons. Indeed, almost all the
resident population, the farms, the homes of
Utah, are composed of Mormons. They are
a peaceable, industrious people, devoted to
their peculiar observances, with a theology
which not only permits but inculcates poly-
gamy as an article of faith, and are charac-
terized by the exclusiveness of social feel-
ing, which sectarianism develops and perse-
cution intensifies. The Gentiles, on the con-
trary, are chiefly composed of miners;
rough, reckless frontiersmen, without fixed
homes, without wives or female relatives.
This floating population is naturally jealous
of Mormon supremacy and impatient of re-
straints, whether salutary or otherwise.
When a Gentile sees a Mormon and the wo-
men of his family cast several votes, he does
not stop to consider that he might neutral-
ize these votes by making a home and in-
viting his female relatives to leave the East
and settle with him in Utah. Nor does he
ask himself whether these women have not
quite as much right to vote as himself, upon
questions which equally concern all [-] [--]
[---] [--] [--] [---] numerical dis-
advantage and appeals to the authorities in
Washington to strike down the women.
And such men as Senator Frelinghuysen are
prompt to do his cowardly bidding. * * *
The utter indifference of Congress to the
rights of the women of Utah is in singular
contrast to its almost morbid sensitiveness in
regard to the rights of colored men. Sup-
pose that the Senate Judiciary Committee,
in view of the very "peculiar condition" of 
South Carolina, had quietly reported a bill,
the effect of which would be to deprive
colored men of suffrage? Would a long de-
bate have taken place without a single allu-
sion to the proposed "limitation of suffrage"
to white men? On the contrary, Mr. Sum-
ner would have exhausted the resources of
eloquent invective, and every Republican
Senator would have denounced the proposi-
tion as a conspiracy against liberty. Let us
hope that the day will come when the rights
of women will find as many and as earnest
defenders in the Congress of the United
States as the rights of colored men find now.
But that day will never dawn until the
women of America are armed with the bal-
lot.


﻿A WIFE’S RIGHTS.

	It is a great mistake for a husband to keep
his wife in ignorance of his business affairs.
In ordinary families it is she who regulates
the out-go, and she ought to know what is
the income. A few weeks ago I heard a
young wife just in the early experience of
houskeeping, say, “How shall I know
whether we are living beyond our means?
I can’t get any idea of what we have to
spend; and while I try to be very careful, of
course, I might spend less on our table if we
were getting in debt.” Surely she ought
not to be blamed if the debt and credit ac-
counts are not prosperous. A loving and
anxious wife suffers untold imaginary fears
if she sees a tired or perplexed expression
on her husband’s face, unless she is assured
of the truest confidence between them, and
knows that no great concern of his is kept
a secret from her.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE TOAST.

	The feast is o'er; now brimming wine
	In lordly cup is seen to shine
		Before each royal guest;
	And silence fills the crowded hall,
	As deep as when the herald's call
		Thrills through the loyal breast.

	Then up arose the gallant host,
	And smiling cries "A toast! A toast!
		To all our ladies fair!
	Here, before all, I pledge the name
	Of Stanton's proud and beauteous dame,
		The Lady Gandomare."

	Then one by one the guests sprang up,
	And drained in turn the brimming cup,
		And named the loved one's name;
	And as his cup on high he raised,
	His lady's grace or beauty praised,
		Her constancy or fame.

	'Tis now St. Leon's turn to rise,
	On him are fixed those countless eyes,
		A gallant knight is he;
	Envied by some, admired by all,
	Fair famed in ladies' bower and hall,
		The flower of chivalry.

	St. Leon raised his kindling eye,
	And tossed the sparkling cup on high––
		"I drink to one," he said,
	"Whose memory never shall depart,
	Deep graven on this grateful heart,
		Till memory be dead!

	To one whose love for me shall last
	When lighter passions long have past,
		So holy 'tis, and true;
	To one whose love for me hath dwelt,
	More deeply fixed, more keenly felt
		Than any pledged to you."

	Each knight up started at the word,
	And laid a hand upon his sword,
		With fire flashing eye;
	And Stanley cried––"We crave the name
	Proud knight, of this most peerless dame,
		Whose love you count so high:"––

	St. Leon paused––as though he would
	Not breathe the name in careless mood,
		Thus lightly to another;
	Then bowed his noble head as though
	To give the word its reverence due,
		And gently said––"MY MOTHER!"


﻿R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Matilda P. Killian, Secretary of the
Salem, Utah Co., R. S., reports their annual
meeting held Jan. 7th.  Bishop Joseph Tan-
ner and Brother Henry G. Boyle, from Pay-
son were present; also quite a number of
other brethren, and a full attendance of sis-
ters.  An interesting, pleasurable, and ben-
eficial meeting was held, with which every
one who participated, seemed to be well
satisfied.  The Society in Salem, though
small, is moving forward in good works;
and those connected with it, feel determined
to do their part in assisting to bring about
the great plan of redemption.  Sister Mary
C. Read is President of the Society.
	From Ogden we have received an interest-
ing account of meetings lately held by the
young folks, Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs.
Zina D. Young being present by invitation.
The young ladies met in the afternoon, and
an evening meeting was appointed, to
which the young gentlemen were invited.
Before the time specified for the opening of
the evening meeting, the hall was filled to
overflowing.  After addresses had been made
by the visitors and several senior residents
of the city, twenty-eight young ladies and
nineteen young gentlemen made remarks,
thanking those who had been instructing
them, thanking and praising the Lord and
bearing testimony of his goodness, and the
truth of His Gospel.  In all, the speakers
druing the evening amounted to fifty-nine.
The Secretary, Mrs A. M. Frodsham, con-
cludes her report by saying "A great deal
of good is being accomplished through the


efforts of the sisters.  May God bless all
who are engaged in the good work."
	A report from West Weber, informs us
that on the 13th of January, Miss E. R.
Snow and Mrs. Zina D. young, met with the
Relief Society of that settlement. There
were also several visitors from Ogden pres-
ent.  The assemblage was large, the meet-
ing an interesting and a profitable one.
Mrs. Jane S. Richards was nominated, and
unanimously sustained by the members of
that Society, as President of all the Relief
Societies of Weber Co.  Mrs. Mary Douglas
is President and Mrs. Puah S. Hart Secre-
tary of the West Weber Society.
	The Washington Relief Society, reports a
meeting held on January 28th; at which
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,Lucy B. Young,
Snow, Ivins, Crosby, Townsend and others
from St. George were present.  An excel-
lent meeting was held, and the Society felt
greatly blessed and benefitted from the en-
couragement and instructions received from
the missionary Sisters.
			B. A. GOODEL, President,
			JANE FREEMAN, Secretary.
	Sister Jane S. Coleman, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Smithfield, writes us that
on the 2nd inst., a very interesting meeting
was held by the Society of that place. The
sisters felt well and spoke good things, and
the Spirit of God was manifestly present in
their midst.


[Column 1]
	     ﻿FROM BOUNTIFUL.

EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT;
	Will you give an "out sider" space in
your columns to make a few remarks?
	Two years ago I came to Utah, sharing
the general prejudice of Gentiles against
an institution they know nothing of. I be-
lieved them—the Mormons—to be ALL that
the most uncharitable had said. I expected
to find them ENEMIES in every sense of the
word to "Gentiles. I found them FRIENDS,
Brothers and Sisters. Kind, hospitable,
charitable and forgiving.
	For two years I have lived in their midst;
their private life is no sealed book to me,
and their extreme forbearance, and patience
under the wrongs inflicted upon them are,
indeed creditable to them.
	Mormon men and women alike, seem to
lean confidingly upon that strong arm that
never faileth, and in all their trials, look
above for wisdom and guidance. As a peo-
ple I consider the Mormons CHRISTIANS in
every sense of the word. A religion which
enables people to go through such over-
whelming troubles, with such serene hope-
fulness, cannot be IMMORAL.
	The Mormon religion calls forth all the
best, holiest, purest impulses of the human
heart. A wholly corrupt, bad person CAN-
NOT BE a MORMON in the true acceptance of
the word.
	Particularly have I interested myself in
the DOMESTIC life of these people of Zion.
	That there are wrongs, and cruel ones, ex-
isting now in Utah, I do not deny; but not
the wrongs—claimed by Mrs. Ann Eliza
Young to be laid upon them by the CHURCH.
The Gentiles (my own people, grieved as I am
to say it) are the wrong doers. They have
commenced a system of persecution against
these people in THEIR OWN LAND, that may
end in sorrow to all.
	I have read Mrs. Ann Eliza Young’s Lec-
ture delivered in Denver, Colorado. I re-
member of once reading—“A LIE that is
PART a lie is a hard matter to fight.” If
this be so, Ann Eliza has not even availed
herself of this weak subterfuge. FALSE is

[Column 2]
stamped upon her lecture from Alpha to
Omega.
	For instance: imagine any enlightened
people giving credence to such a statement
as this:—“In the Presidents household, they
have what is called “ration day,” once a
month; each family receives—five (5) lbs.
sugar, 1 lb candles, a BAR (not box) of soap,
and one (1) box matches.” This paragraph
requires no comments to those who have
seen and know President Young and his
family. It speaks for itself. And if, as she
says,—“The poor and helpless in Utah are
the abject slaves of the rich and powerful,”
from my experience I believe their “sla-
very” to be sweet, and their “ignorance”
bliss indeed.
	I do not wish nor intend to comment upon
Mrs. Ann Eliza’s Lecture; as I said before,
to intelligent thinking minds it speaks for
itself. She may be a very estimable lady,
but nature, in her formation, evidently for-
got two most important ingredients—Truth
and Gratitude.
	I have many dear friends among the Mor-
mons. And I believe these people are sus-
tained by powers not of earth, and that they
will come forth from under this dark cloud
of persecution, purer, firmer in their FAITH
(if this be possible,) and stronger than ever.
I may not believe in all points of their relig-
ion, nevertheless, it is no reason why I can-
not see the good in it. THEY do not believe
in MINE, yet they have never persecuted
me because I saw fit to worship God one
way, they another. And because I may not
consider President Young to be an inspired
Prophet of God, does this prohibit me from
thinking him a most excellent gentleman, a
kind husband and father, a man of principle
and sterling integrity, a man well calculated
to lead a people of sense and righteousness
to God? It does not. And I believe in the
Celestial Kingdom a bright crown of glory
awaits him; and I, a GENTILE WOMAN, hope
to meet him there, after all the turmoil and
persecutions of this life are over, where, I
believe, Mormon, Jew and Gentile will be
rewarded according to the works done here
in the flesh.
	Dear Editor, will you kindly pardon this
intrusion upon your valuable time? I felt
I must write you, if only a few words, to
convey my thoughts and feelings towards
my Mormon friends.
	Your prosperity will always cause me ex-
treme pleasure. Any adversity that may
fall upon your people, the deepest sorrow.
And believe me ever your TRUE friend,
though a				"GENTILE."


A WOMAN FARMER.

	During the past season, Miss Caroline
Jaques, of South Groveland, Mass., raised
from one acre of land, thirty bushels of pop-
corn, and from one-fourth of an acre, thir-
teen bushels of potatoes. From her garden
she gathered two bushels of turnips, two
bushels of beans, and one hundred squashes,
also beets, cabbages, peas, etc., in abundance.
All this was the fruit of her own cultiva-
tion, unaided, after the ground was prepared
for the reception of the seed. In addition
to this Miss Jaques has cleared the rocks
from one-fourth of an acre of ground. The
harvesting was also all performed by her
own hands, and the corn, which is mostly
sold, has been born to market by herself in
small quantities, and on foot. She resides
four miles from Haverhill, which has been
the principle market for her products. Miss
Jaques is fifty-eight years of age, and has
hitherto been chiefly occupied as a seam-
stress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]					﻿
					[For the EXPONENT.
  REFLECTIONS ON CHARITY AND
		   GOOD WORKS,

		BY H. D. COLLINS.

	   True, godly principles evinced
		In actions good and kind,
	   But seldom fail of skill to heal,
		And to reform the mind.

	   The stranger feels the lenient hand
		Of charity and grace;
	   No longer doubt that God is love,
		When thus we learn his ways.

	"Let your light so shine before men, that
they may see your good works, and glorify your
Father which is in heaven." Mathew, 5th
chap. 16th verse.
	I believe that every kind and charitable
deed or act that is wrought by the spirit and
influence of divine grace, or through love
and respect to the word and commandments
of God, the same will be recognized and ap-
probated of God; in all cases where suffer-
ing humanity require those acts, whether
the supplicant be called saint or sinner. Al-
though, I think the latter has sometimes
been vainly substituted as a foundation for
objectionable causes, and excuses for neg-
lect, even in circumstances of special need.
But this theorem, I consider no model for
us, who profess to be the disciples and fol-
lowers of Jesus Christ, for we do not acquire
our moral virtue, or system of practice, pre-
cepts and rules through the crafty and
churlish devices of worldly and wicked in-
fluences where there is neither foundation
nor chance for Salvation. But we have a
prototype of divinely better morals, which
teaches us to love our enemies, bless those
who curse us, do good to those who hate us
and pray for those who despitefully use and
persecute us, that we may be the children
of our Father in heaven. We understand
that Christ came not to call the righteous,
but sinners to repentance, and for this end
should we not labor? "Know ye not," saith
the apostle Paul, “that if ye convert a sin-
ner from the error of his ways, ye have sav-
ed a soul from death, and covered a multi-
tude of sins?” And I believe that Gospel
charity, whether it be of words or deeds
being administered in the spirit of loving
kindness, will, with God’s help, result in
much good. And if the effect does not im-
mediately appear, the administration may,
after many days be brought to remembrance,
and be the very means which God may use
in His providence, to bring about timely
conversion and heartfelt gratitude to Him.
But let faith and works be combined in all
our contributions of charity, and special acts
of kindness, that they may be approved of
God, and attended with divine blessing.
Then we shall see the afflicted rejoice, and
when they find the salvation of God in this
way, our hearts will be made glad, and we
shall be led to rejoice in the riches of his
goodness, being made the hopeful instru-
ments of his grace in saving souls from
death, and of covering or preventing multi-
tudes of sin. If we labor for righteousness’
sake, our reward is sure. Finally let us
strive with all diligence, and pray earnestly
that our hearts become sanctified to God,
pure and holy—that all we do, whether at
home or abroad may be done in righteous-
ness, and with an eye to his glory; for by
our works we shall be judged. I believe
that in this great and last dispensation of the
fulness of times, there will be much requir-
ed of the people of God, both to do and to
endure. And without the whole armor of
godliness, I think we shall be found want-
ing. I feel for one, that I have much to do
and much to gain before I shall be able to
accomplish altogether a good purpose in this
point of view. But by the grace of God, I

[Column 2]
can say that I do not feel at all discouraged;
for the Gospel truth truly grows brighter
and brighter to me. And I am resolved to
press forward “toward the mark for the
prize of the high calling of our God in
Christ Jesus,” keeping this heavenly at-
tainment or prize in view, and closely ad-
hering to my abiding motto, “Faith, Hope
and Perseverance.” I believe there is no
opposite power that shall be able to stay our
onward progress unto victory, nor separate
us from the love of God, which is in Christ
Jesus, if we neglect not our little duties of
each day. And I would here say to my be-
loved friends and co-workers in the king-
dom and patience of Jesus Christ:—Let us
not be slothfull, neither let us be weary in
well doing; for we shall reap in due time, if
we faint not. That we who bear the name
of Christ may so fulfill our missions here, as
to gain an eternal exaltation in the Kingdom
of our God, is my ardent hope and prayer.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN.

	Woman what art thou? A mere weed
which has so cumbersome grown that it is
to be plucked and burned as stuble? Or art
thou from the animal creation of that por-
tion which has become so numerous that it
is worthless because of its number?
	The pearl says, "I am sought from my
hiding place because of my worth." Man,
for what sought ye woman? To gratify the
lower passions of thy nature, the animal
man? Or was it to add more brilliancy, and
more stars to thy crown? Thus a high and
holy nature to gratify, a nature that charac-
terizes a Damon a Pythias a God! The Bible
declares that man (mankind) the noblest
work of God was the last that was placed
on earth, and all other things were formed
first, for the especial benefit of man; also
that God pronounced man and woman one
flesh. God took much pains for man (and
for woman as she is a part of man:) to con-
sider his necessities, to bring from chaos
and organize for his comfort, He toiled six
days, as we read six thousand years. But
woman was essential, and necessary to com-
plete the great design, and He saw that He
had made an aching void in the heart of
man that could not be filled without a com-
panion, and that was woman. He also de-
creed that she should be called by man his
mother, his wife, and they, one flesh. Then
man, what are you doing when you allow
one portion of yourself to go to decay, and
with your own hand kindle a consuming
fire to destroy, or sever from you that which
God designed should be a part of yourself?
That part too in which your glory rests! O
man behold her worth! Think ye there is
no accountability to God for your steward-
ship of this refined portion of his work? Is
there no responsibility on your part, to estab-
lish your identiy as a husband? And when
you have sacredly covenanted before God to
love, and cherish, and to fulfill all duties
and obligations pertaining to the holy order
of matrimony, is there no trust to which
you are bound to be faithful? If not, then
wife thou hast none. But to thy God thou
art bound to ever love and respect, for He
has established His identity in thy organi-
zation.
	Woman with her vine like nature, reach-
ing, clinging, twining, arives at her zenith
if she has a staunch support. Although her
nature feeble and pliant, may be in a state of
apathy for a time, if it has been blunted by
a rude hand, which perhaps has carelessly,
thoughtlessly deprived it of its object.
When it again recovers sufficient strength,
it will reach for another object; for this is a

[Column 2]
law of nature, a law of God. There is a
tie of affection, a cord of love, carded by
acts of friendship, spun by patience, and
sized by the milk of human kindness. And
this woven by continued endurance, will
form a mantle of charity that will cover all
defects of the human heart and make per-
fect union.
	Woman is man's teacher; from the cra-
dle she begins to form his character; and his
future, whether good or bad, is more or less
the result of woman's training. Hence, the
necessity of woman's school. She should
gather wisdom from the fountain of all
intelligence, and her fund of knowledge
should be inexhaustable. If she realizes the
extent of her mission on earth, her moments
will be to her as so many pearls, by which to
ornament the mind. Her bounds should not
be limited to the mere menial duties of life,
she should be allowed a free pass to the store-
house of knowledge, that she may acquaint
herself with facts that will enable her to
mold and frame mechanically, the charac-
ter and consequent course of future genera-
tions. Woman should aspire to dwell on the
pinnacle for which nature has designed her,
as the mother of nations. Heaven has en-
dowed woman with powers so suited to her
calling, she watches the cradle of sleeping
innocence, and with vigilance aids the steps
of youth to manhood; and with gentle train-
ing, with affection, stamps woman, and
mother, on its every thought. She has in-
spired in man's heart a desire to take a part-
ner in life, a "fac simile" of his teacher in
childhood. And as his dreams of childhood
are fraught with such vivid recollections,
how can he fail to behold the beauty of
woman, and love her as his mother, sister
and wife?					"I'LL TRY."


POSTAGE ON PRINTED MATTER.

	By request, we publish the following list
of present postal rates on printed matter,
sent to any part within the United States.
	The postage, per-quarter of three months,
on newspapers and magazines, not weigh-
ing over four ounces each, is, to regular sub-
scribers; for
Dailies, (seven times a week)....................35cts.
		(six times week)...........................30 " 
Tri- weeklies..............................................15 "
Semi-weeklies............................................10 "
Weeklies......................................................5 "
Semi-monthlies............................................6 "
Monthlies.....................................................3 "
Quarterlies....................................................1 "
	These rates must be paid in advance,
either quarterly or yearly at the office where
the newspaper or magazine is received. 
	Books, 2 cents, for each two ounces or
fraction thereof.
	Samples of merchandise, metals, ores, and
specimens, 2 cents on each two ounces or
fraction thereof; limited to twelve ounces.
	Single newspapers and all other printed
or miscellaneous matter; (except books) as
pamphlets, occasional publications, hand
bills, circulars, proof-sheets, book manu-
scripts, photographs, etc., also seeds, cut-
tings, bulbs and roots, 1 cent for each two
ounces or fraction thereof, all of which must
be prepaid.
	Manuscript for publication in newspapers,
magazines, etc. is charged letter postage
rates.
	Stamps cut from stamped letters are of no
use for postage.
	The greatest weight allowed for any pack-
age of printed or miscellaneous matter is
four pounds avoirdupois.


Portland has a population of 10,000 to the square
mile.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		    L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.
		
	       	    SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
	Judge Guigon of Richmond, Va., has re-
fused to grant a petition of the colored citi-
zens of that place, asking that colored men
be put on Juries when colored criminals are
to be tried.....There are 32,000 citizens
in New York State, under sentence for 
felonies...Henry M. Stanley, who led a small
body of men through Central Africa, two
years ago, in search of Dr. Livingstone the
great African traveler, has recently comple-
ted a book for big boys which treats of the
life and ways of the people of Central Af-
rica......Carlotta Bettini, the Italian revo-
lutionist, recently died at the age of sixty-
one......The ladies of Edinburgh are said to
contemplate presenting in their name, a
suitable gift to the Princess Marie of Rus-
sia, on the occasion of her marriage with
the Duke of Edinburgh.......White coal has
been discovered and is coming into very
general use on the Australian continent......
Colored people are excluded from the grange
movement in Maryland and Virginia......
Corporal punishment has been abolished in
the high schools in Boston......China proper
is said to be the most densely peopled re-
gion of the world, and to contain at present,
one-third of the human race......Miss Stet-
son of Normal, Ill. has been sent as a medi-
cal missionary to India......Mrs. Patterson of
Greenville, Tenn., a daughter of ex-Presi-
dent Johnson, has the reputation of being
the best butter maker in that place.....There
is but one woman editor in Mississippi......
The life of Agassiz, written by his wife, will
soon be ready for publication......A son of
Charles Dickens has recently been called to
the bar......The two rival British statesmen,
Gladstone and Disraeli, are of nearly the
same age, the former being 64, the latter 68
.....Dr. Stephen Smith, the Health Com-
missioner of New York, says that intemper-
ance is alarmingly on the increase among
women in high as well as low life......An
equestrian statue of Joan of Arc, life size
and in bronze, has been ordered of M. Fre-
mier, by the French Government......The
Protestant pastor of Madrid, Don Antonio
Carrasco, was lost in the Ville de Havre......
Mr. John Stuart Mills' Autobiography is
exciting great attention in England......The
"Washington Capital" calls Grace Green-
wood "One of the most admirable corres-
pondents known to our newspaper world."
.....St. Louis has given Nilsson an enthusi-
astic reception.....A widow in Maine burn-
ed her home because the law said she must
give it to the brothers of her deceased hus-
band according to his will.......Mrs. Webster,
a skilled physician, has been appointed pro-
fessor of Hygiene and Physician at Vassar
College......Lady Burdett Coutts leads the
crusade against cruelty to animals in Eng-
land......A lady of Elsworth, Maine, is can-
vassing that city, obtaining signatures to a
petition to the Legislature to have the po-
litical disabilities of woman removed.


LADY MEMBERS OF THE BOSTON
		SCHOOL BOARD.

	The recently elected lady members of the
Boston School Board seem to be well quali-
fied for the office. Miss Abbie W. May has
long been identified with the charities of
Boston. At her home in Exeter Place was
begun the work of the Sanitary Commis-
sion in Boston, and in all the enterprizes
which were set on foot during the war for
the benefit of the soldiers Miss May took a
most active part. In education Miss May
has taken a great interest, and her views on


the subject are to be decidedly progres-
sive. Miss Lucia M. Peabody is a lady of
fourteen years' experience as a teacher, and
knows perfectly not only the system of edu-
cation that prevails there, but is, by her long
experience peculiarly qualified to judge as
to the requirements of education in the fu-
ture. She had in charge many years ago
the excellent school which was begun by
Mrs. Lowell. Miss Lucretia Crocker is the
daughter of Mr. Henry Crocker, President
of the Union Insurance Company. The fact
that she has been for several years one of
the faculty in Antioch College, Ohio, suffi-
ciently explains the unanimity with which
she was chosen to the School Board from
Ward 11. Her knowledge of educational
subjects, in all branches, is said to be great;
she can hardly fail to do good work for the
cause of education. Mrs. Ann Adeline Bad-
ger, of Ward 9, was graduated at Oberlin
College, Ohio, and has for sometime man-
aged a large private school in Boston. She
has devoted her life to educational matters,
and is perfectly competent to perform the
duties which will devolve upon her. She
has assistance in the management of her
school, so that she will be able to spare the
time which the performance of these duties
will require.—"New York Tribune."


NEWS AND VIEWS.

	If any lady expects to make a fortune by
adopting the name of "Young," and "telling
what she knows about Mormonism," in St.
Louis, she had better calculate on doing it in
one night. The people there don't turn out
well to see such a show the second time.
	The present session of the Territorial Legisla-
ture will close in about six days. Judging from
the way in which work was apparently being
pushed through, in both houses, when we vis-
ited them, we should say, the gentlemen com-
posing the legislative bodies will have the sat-
isfaction of feeling that they have done their
part to accomplish much good for their constit-
uents.
	On the 2nd instant, Mr. Mellish, on leave in-
troduced in the House of Representatives at
Washington, the following bill; which was read
twice, ordered printed and referred to the Com-
mittee on Territories: "A Bill to relieve the
women citizens of the Territories from politi-
cal disabilities."
	"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Amer-
ica in Congress assembled, That from and after
the passage of this act no female citizen of the
United States, residing in any of the Territo-
ries thereof, shall be debarred from exercising
the right of suffrage at any election held in
such Territory, anything in the laws of the
United States or in the laws of said Territory
to the contrary notwithstanding."
	There is good sound sense contained in this
little bill, and we trust Congress may see it.


On the 10th and 11th instants, news came
from Xenia and Cincinnati, Ohio, concerning
the Woman's War on Whisky, of a very encour-
aging nature. May their work continue until
the desired end is accomplished. A portion of
a telegram in relation to it, informs us that
in Washington, Ohio, a man named Passmore
opened a new saloon last week and immediate-
ly the whole moral and religious power of
the town turned upon him. Ladies prayed be-
fore the door all day and till half-past ten at
night. During a snow storm an immense pro-
cession marched to Beck's, who had enjoined
the women from using a tabernacle in front of
his place. Those enjoined remained in church
to pray. Beck on seeing the procession, said he
too would stop; only one remains, and he asks for
another day to consider. At Blanchester all of
the saloons are closed. At Logan the ladies
likewise celebrate a complete victory. At Lan-
caster and other places the work is beginning.
At Pomeroy a society has been organized on
the principle that there is enough moral and
religious power in the city to exterminate the
business of trafficking in intoxicating drink,
and will resort to law only when other means
fail.


NEW PUBLICATIONS.

	We have received the Jan. No. of "The Illus-
trated Journal," a periodical printed on fine
tinted paper, said to be better for the eyes than
the clear white paper in general use. The en-
gravings are excellent. It contains an inter-
esting, illustrated article, on "Utah and her
Institutions." "The Popular Science Monthly"
a work valuable to the professional and ama-
teur scientist. Also "St. Nicholas," a maga-
zine full of good pictures and pleasant reading
for the young. The above works are for sale at
Jas. Dwyer's, Main Street.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MISS GEORGIA SNOW has been nominated by
the Governor for Territorial Librarian.

	THE POSTAGE on the EXPONENT is six cents
a quarter, or twenty-four cents a year paid in
advance.

	A PRIVATE communication from Cache Val-
ley, informs that the meetings held by the home
Missionaries, throughout the county are hav-
ing a happy tendency in stirring up the Saints
to renewed diligence in the way of Salvation.

	OUR CITY readers should not fail to notice
that Mr. Moore, the postmaster, has provided
a drop letter box, expressly for city letters. It
is placed near to where the registered letter,
and money order window was formerly, and its
contents are to be distributed every hour.

	BEING EVER ready to pick up items credita-
ble to our sex, we were pleased to hear Bishop
Thos. Callister, of Fillmore, when recently ad-
dressing the 14th Ward Sunday school, say,
that as far as his knowledge extended, every
young lady of that place attended Sunday
school, either as a teacher or scholar.

	THE RELIEF SOCIETY of the Seventh Ward
held a pleasant party in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, on last Wednesday evening. Mrs.
M. A. Needham, Mrs. M. T. Beatie, Mrs.
Jane Evans, Mrs. S. Dinwoody, Miss Josie
Evans and Mrs. Mary Woodbury were the
ladies composing the commitee. We tender
many thanks for kind remembrance, in the
form of an early invitation.


TRACK LAYING on the Utah Nothern R. R.,
between Ogden, and Brigham cities, was com-
pleted on Thursday, the 5th inst. Travelers can
now take the morning train here and, with
one change only, get to Logan by mid-day.
Which is much more pleasant than by the for-
mer route, with its two changes and arrival
near midnight, at its Nothern terminus. The
energy and public enterprise of those gentle-
men, who have labored so successfully are com-
mendable.
	AT THE monthly meeting of the Deseret
Sunday School Union, held on the evening of
the 3rd inst. considerable attention was direct-
ed to the subject of amateur theatres, in con-
nection with Sabbath School entertainments.
It was considered by a majority of the speakers
that songs, recitations, readings and all exer-
cises comprising Sabbath School entertain-
ments should be of that character only which
is best calculated to carry a good influence,
morally or religiously.
	AT THE Nominating Convention, which was
held in the Old Tabernacle, on the afternoon of
Saturday, the 31st ult., for the purpose of nomi-
nating city officers, we were pleased to note,
that a goodly number of ladies were present.
There are, however, some intelligent women
in this city, having the right of elective fran-
chise, who are too indifferent to exercise the
power they hold in this respect. But with the
opportunities now afforded for the advance-
ment of women, in this Territory, we hope to
see all such weaknesses overcome in the early
future.
	MONDAY, THE 9th inst., was an active day
among the voters of this city, it being the one ap-
pointed for the municipal election. At one time
five different tickets were in the field, but by
Monday morning only two worthy of notice--the
non-Mormon party having withdrawn their
ticket and given their full support to the Mor-
mon-opposition ticket, composed of old resi-
dents and Mormons, several names being the
same as those on "The People's Ticket." As
far as we konw, the day was not marked by
any particular difficulty or disturbance. The
number of lady voters is said to have been
greater than at any former election held here.
Notwithstanding the strong opposition "The
Peoples Ticket" carried the day by a very large
majority. The officers elected were: Mayor: D.
H. Wells. Aldermen: Isaac Groo, Geo. Cris-
mon, Jeter Clinton, John Sharp, A. C. Pyper.
Councilors: Brigham Young, Theo. McKean,
Albert Carrington, J. R. Winder, Henry Grow,
N. H. Felt, David McKenzie Feramorz Little,
Thos. Williams.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLEA FOR THE WOMEN OF MASSA-
	CHUSETTS AND MOTHER EVE,
		vs. KATE BOWERS.

	All sides of questions of public interest
should be held to the light.
	Opponent says she is "greatly pained to
see Massachusetts women sinking so low as
to be willing to become prostitutes; for their
petition to the Legislature to legalize poly-
gamy simply means this."
	If it means "this" to the mind of the writer
of the article entitled "Polygamy vs. Shak-
erism." It means something very different
to the clear minded, noble and brave women
of Massachusetts.
	Kate Bowers seeks to become an angel
through crucifixion; while the women of
Massachusetts seek to pass by the angels,
and become heirs of salvation through obe-
dience to the command of God; to replenish
the earth; and through obedience to that


law of nature which says, maternity with
personal protection from all abuses, is one of
woman's most sacred and exalted rights.
	Instead of "stepping back to the time
when lust was rampant," as Kate accuses
them of doing, these women ask for room
to step forward into regions of purity and
self preservation—God help them!
	The opponent of the right of Massachu-
setts women, next offers indignity to the
woman in Eden, claiming that she led man
to sin. My client would claim that our
great maternal progenitor is entitled to rev-
erent honor for braving the peril that
brought earth's children from the dark val-
ley of ignorance and stagnation, and placed
them on the broad, progressive plain, where
they, knowing good and evil, joy and sor-
row, may become as Gods.
	Mother Eve, for taking the initiative in
this advance movement, should receive en-
comiums of praise; which should be shared
by our great paternal, who, though reluct-
antly, followed and aided in her heaven or-
dained enterprise.
	Not wishing to detain the Court, the case
is respectfully submitted.		S. M. K.


NATURAL CONDITION OF MAN.

	The natural and healthy condition of man
is one in which he works for what he re-
ceives. Those who contribute nothing to
the general stock ought to take nothing
from it. The accumulation of capital in
private hands is creating, in continually en-
larging numbers, a class of people who have
abundant means to spend on themselves,
while they have nothing to do in return. A
man makes a fortune, as it is called; he
leaves it to his children, who find themselves
to have inherited the services of an army
genii, potent as those of Aladin's lamp to
minister to their pleasures. Fools spend
their share on indulgence. Indulgence is
usually synonymous with vice; and as long
as their purses hold out they do mischief to
every one who comes near them. This kind
of thing happily does not often last long. The
money is soon gone, and there is an end of
it. But the majority have sense enough to
avoid ruining themselves by extravagance.
They live on their incomes, ladies especi-
ally, and having their time to themselves,
and being spared the necessity of exertion,
are considered exceptionally happy—yet
happy they cannot be. Satisfaction of mind
is allotted by Providence only to industry;
and not being obliged to be industrious, they
lose the capacity for it. Enjoyments pall on 
them. Having allowed the period of life
to pass unused when occupations can be
successfully learned, they are unable to take
their places afterwards on the beaten roads
of life. They stray into fancy employments;
they become dabblers in politics, dabblers in
art, dabblers in literature and science. Noth-
ing succeeds with them sufficiently to put
them on good terms with themselves, and
then men and women alike, and particularly
the better sort of them, being without
wholesome occupations, craving for some-
thing which will satisfy the demands which
their minds are making on them, they fly
to the opiates and anodynes of the quack
doctors of the spiritual world.—"James An-
thony Froude."


BRITISH ELECTIONS have been attended
with riots and mob disturbances this season,
more even than generally in former years.
Much diversity of opinion prevails, accord-
ing to late news from London. The British-
ers seem to have forgotton that "union is
power."


A New Rake.—Josh Billings thus speaks
of a new agricultural implement, to which
the attention of farmers is invited: "John
Rogers' revolving, expanding, unceremo-
nious, self-adjusting, self-controlling, self-
greasing, self-righteous hoss-rake, is now
forever offered to the generous public. The
rakes are as easy to keep in repair as a hitch-
ing post, and will rake up a paper of pins
sowed in a ten-acre field of wheat stubble.
These rakes can be used in winter for a hen-
roost, or sawed up into stove-wood for the
kitchen fire. No farmer of good moral char-
acter should be without this rake, if even
he has to steal one.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	A little boy at Green Bay played barber-
shop with his little sister, shampooing her
head with a bottle of pepper-sauce, just as
he had seen them do down town.

	When Arthur was a very small boy his
mother reprimanded him one day for some
misdemeanor. Not knowing it his father
began to talk to him on the same subject.
Looking up in his face; Arthur said, sol-
emnly, "My mother has 'tended to me."

	If a little girl cannot take her grandfather
on her lap as he takes her on his, she can get
his slippers, or put away his book, or gently
comb his thin locks; and whether she thinks
of it or not, little kindnesses, even such as
these, that come from a loving heart, are the
sunbeams that light up the world.

	An Essex lady sitting in her parlor and
engaged in the dreamy contemplation of
the mustache of the young gentleman who
was to escort her and her sister to the con-
cert was suddenly awakened by an ominous
whisper in a juvenile voice at the door:
"You've got Ann's teeth an' she wants 'em."

	A little Irish girl about six years old, liv-
ing in Massachusetts, was lately telling some
of her schoolmates—children of Protestant
parents—what great things the priest could
do. "Why" said she, "if he wishes he could
turn a man to stone!" The other children
laughed and said, "We don't believe it."
"Well," was her reply—beautiful for its sim-
plicity—,'if I were you, I wouldn't believe
it, but I've got to."

	When the Emperor of Germany was lately
on a visit to a village in a distant portion of
his dominions, he was welcomed by the
school children of the place. After the
speaker had made a speech for them, he
thanked them. Then taking an orange from
the plate, he asked: "To what kingdom does
this belong?"
	"To the vegetable kingdom, sire," replied
a little girl.
	The Emperor took a gold coin from his
pocket, and holding it up, asked, "And to
what kingdom does this belong?"
	"To the mineral kingdom, sire," replied
the child.
	"And to what kingdom do I belong, then?"
asked the Emperor.
	The little girl colored deeply, for she did
not like to say "the animal kingdom," as he
thought she would, lest his Majesty should
be offended, when a bright thought came,
and she said with radient eyes:
	"To God's kingdom, sire."
	The Emperor was deeply moved, a tear
stood in his eye, and placing his hand on
the child's head he said most devoutly:
"God grant that I may be accounted worthy
of that kingdom!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FEBRUARY.

	What's the fun of February?
	Skies that change and winds that vary!
	Freezing flaws, flooding thaws,—
	In and out of Winter's jaws.
	Then we send our valentines
	Billet-doux and tender lines,
	Blazing hearts, winged darts;
	Cupid's king of coazing arts!
	Then each John may choose his Mary,
	Spite of skies and winds that vary,—
	That's the fun of February.
					OLIVE A. WARDSWORTH.
In St. Nicholas.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Mothers, Speak Kindly.—Children catch cross
tones quicker than parrots, and they often become
permanent habits in them. When mother sets the
example, you will scarcely hear a pleasant word
among the children in their plays with each other.
Yet the discipline of such a family is always weak
and irregular. The children expect just so much
scolding before they do anything they are bid, while
in many a home where the low, firm tone of moth-
er, or the decided look of her steady eye, is law, they
always think of obedience, either in or out of sight.
Oh, mother! it is worth a great deal to cultivate
that excellent thing in woman, a low, sweet voice.
If you are ever so much tried by the mischievous
or wilful pranks of the little one, speak low. It
will be a great help to you to even try to be patient
and cheerful, if you cannot succeed. Anger makes
you wretched, and your children also. Impatient,
angry tones never did the heart good, but plenty of
evil. You cannot have the excuse for them that
they lighten your burdens at all; they make them
only ten times heavier. For your own, as well as
your children’s sake, speak low. They will remem-
ler that tone when your head is under the turf.
So, to, will they remember a harsh and angry tone,
Which legacy will you leave to your children?
	Cream Pie.—Cover the pie-tin with a good crust,
but not too rich; then fill with sweet cream; sprinkle
generously with flour and sugar; cover with crust;
bake quick, and you have a pie fit for a king. To
be eaten when cold. 
	A Useful Soap.—The following is commended
by those who have tried it for scrubbing and cleans-
ing painted floors, washing dishes, and other house-
hold purposes:. Take two pounds of white olive
soap and shave it in thin slices; add two ouuces of
borax and two quarts of cold water; stir all together
in a stone or earthen jar, and let it set upon the
back of the stove until the mass is dissolved. A
very little heat is required, as the liquid need not
simmer.  When thoroughly mixed and cooled, it
becomes of the consistence of a thick jelly, and a
piece the size of a cubic inch will make a lather for
a gallon of  water.
	Borax for Cleansing Blankets:—The Boston
Journal of' Chemistry gives the following method
of cleansing blankets: Put two large teaspoonfuls
 of borax and a pint bowl of soft soap into a tub of
cold water.  When dissolved, put in a pair of blan-
kets, and let them remain over night. Next day
 rub and drain them out, and rinse thoroughly in two
waters, and hang them to dry. Do not wring them.
But this is not the only domestic use to which borax
may be put. Says the same journal: Borax is the
best cockroach exterminator yet discovered. This
troublesome insect has a peculiar aversion to it, and
will never return where it has once been scattered.
As the salt is perfectly harmless to human beings,
it is much to be preferred for this purpose to the
poisonous substances commonly used. Borax is
valuable for the laundry; use 1 lb. to about ten gal-
lons of boiling water, and you need only one-half
the ordinary allowance of soap. For laces, cam-
bries, etc., use an extra quantity of this powder. It
will not injure the texture of the cloth in the least.
For cleansing the hair, nothing is better than a so-
lution of borax water. Wash afterwards with pure
water if it leaves the hair too stiff. Borax dissol-
[Column 2]
ved in water is also an excellent dentifrice, or tooth
wash.
Oat meal for bone and muscle:—Liebig
has shown that oat meal is almost as nutri-
tious as the very best English beef,and that
it is richer than wheaten bread in the ele-
ments that go to form hone and muscle.
Professor Forbes of Edinburg, during some
twenty years, measured the bredth and
hight, and also tested the strength of both
the arms and loins of the students in the
University—a very numerous class, and of
various nationalities, drawn to Edinburg by
the fame of his teaching. He found that,
in height, breadth of chest and shoulders,
and strength of arms and loins, the Belgians
were, at the bottom of the list a little above
them the French very much higher the
English and highest of all, the Scotch and
Scotch-Irish, from Ulster, who, like the na-
tives of Scotland, are fed in their early years
with at least one meal a day of good milk
and good oatmeal porridge. Speaking of
oatmeal, an exchange remarks that a very
good drink is made by putting about two
spoonfuls of the meal in a tumbler of water.
The Western hunters and trappers consider
it the best of drinks, as it is at once nour-
ishing, unstimulating, and satisfying. It is
popular in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, two
and a half pounds of oatmeal being put into
a pail of moderately cool water. It is much
better than any of the ordinary mixtures of
vinegar and. molasses with water which far-
mers use in the haying or harvest field.


For the EXPONENT.
THE BALLOT AND THE BULLET.

	A lady conversing with a gentleman upon
the right of woman suffrage, was told by
him that the ballot and the bullet went to-
gether—“will you fight as well as vote?”
"Yes," Was the ready reply, “by hiring a
substitute as you did during the late war.”
Women are for peace, not war: and this is
one of the many reasons why they should
have the right of franchise. Yes, a true
woman is for peace when it can be secured
upon honorable terms; at the same time she
will fight or encourage and sustain those
whose business it is to fight, when it is nec-
essary.—That is when her rights and those
of her friends are invaded, as has been prov-
en in the history of the past; as in the
case of Joan of Arc; also Artimesia the
Queen who joined the immense invading
army of Xerxes. She was in command at
the great battle of Hellespont, on which
occasion the king, seated on a high eminence,
where he could look down upon the engage-
ment said, “See—see Artemesia the Queen!
She acts like a man, while our men act like
women!” But for all this, we are opposed
to woman's going to war when the greatest
battle is fought at home. Ask the man who
goes to the battle field, which he would con-
sider the greatest task, to face the enemy
and be shot down in defence of his country,
or to take the place of the true wife and
mother, who not only lives to mourn the
loss of friends and country, but her husband
also, and her sons. There are thousands of
women who have thus been called to mourn,
who are now asking the right of franchise.
But if such bills as the Frelinghuysen are
to be made law; to disfranchise the noble
women of our land who fill the chair of
state and the halls of Congress with their
sons, and the ranks of the battle field with
the offsprings of their own bodies, the lover
of freedom can but exclaim, mockery! No
longer call this a Republican form of Govern-
ment. Take down the standard of liberty


and cease to mock the Goddess by desecra-
ting her inalienable rights. Fold up the flag
of our beloved country that so proudly waves
over sea and land, and lay it in some sacred
sepulchre; until the mother of Washington,
Jefferson, and the mothers of the framers
of the Constitution of the United States,
shall come forth and demand of their sons
their inalienable rights, the elective Fran-
chise. 				WILLMEITH EAST.
	SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S POWER.
	Junius Henri Browne writes in the November
Galaxy:	Where is the man with parts and princi-
ples that has not been managed by a woman? What
hero of the past (the present is slow to recognize
its heroes) has not had its heroine, even though she
be not so recorded?
	Pericles was managed by Aspasia in everything
that added to the greatness and glory of Greece.
He was proud to admit his indebtedness to her.
She helped him to his pedestal, and drawing her
after him, he crowned her with laurels, and, pro-
claimed her a goddess fit for the Parthenon. He
had no fear to be thought inspired or guided by her,
for he was the lofty leader of lofty men, standing
so high that he uttered the wisdom of Olympus.
	Hyperides, the rival of Demosthenes,  was so
managed by Thyrne as to render his effort in her
behalf the crown of his eloquence. The beauty of
the woman flashed into his thought; the symmetry
of her form swept through his sentences, and she
stood acquitted by the power of her reflected loveli-
ness. Caesar and Antony knew from the first what
a siren Cleopatra was. The great Julius saw her
consummate management when she rose, like a rare
aromatic flower, from the bale the swarthy Sicilian
had brought. He felt the presence of the splendid
apparition kindling a new destiny in his veins, and
he advanced to meet it with open arms. Unfortu-
nate as her influence was in many respects, she
must have answered in some way to his noblest
nature. No woman, not even Egypt's enchanting
queen, could have retained him for years unless she
had awakened that which was best in him and most
promising for the future.
	Antony, magnificient rowdy that he was, detected
the management of Ptolemy’s daughter while she
rode up the Cydnus with silver oars to obey his
summons, as the goddess of youth and love. To
live in luxurious effeminacy with her he sank the
Spartan element that was in him and drew the Syb-
arite to the surface. How supreme must have been
the tact that could rivet to her side the sturdy sol-
dier and enthrall him with voluptuousness, while
he saw his Roman veterans disowning their allegi-
ance in favor of Octavius, and the empire he had
gained by mighty prowess and hardship crumbling
under his dazzled eyes.


﻿A POLITE AND HONORABLE WOMAN.

	“How do you get along?” said a wife to
her husband, in the midst of the panic.
“Oh, I shall weather the storm, but I wish I
had only a few hundred dollars more.”
“Don’t you wish you had married a rich
wife?” said she, in a teasing way; then
going to her room, she returned with rather
more than the amount required in United
States bonds. “Why, where in the world
did you get this?” said the husband. “Well
my dear, you went to a champagne supper
seven years ago, and on finding navigation
around the room rather difficult, deposited
hat, shoes, gloves and a large roll of bank
bills on the carpet. I put the money away
and waited three weeks for you to enquire
if I had seen it, when, finding you were
ashamed to do so, I invested it, and here
you have it.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.

	If we could but cast from ourselves our
burdens of care, realizing that with God is
perfect wisdom and perfect love; and that
He will make all things work for our best
good if we seek diligently and faithfully to
serve Him, how happy we should be! But
sometimes, when little circumstances occur
to annoy and grieve us, we somehow submit
to be tempted, and allow ourselves to be
made doleful and miserable in mind. Then
it is we realize most our mortal weaknesses.
Then it is, at times, we almost feel as though
God had forsaken us, But only think, sis-
ters, He has said, though a mother should
forget her nursing babe, yet He will not for-
get those who trust in Him. Ought we not,
as Saints, even in times of trial and suffer-
ing, to look unto Him with faith, believing
that he is able to deliver us out of all scenes
of trouble; and that He will do so if we
only strive with our might to keep the com-
mandments which He has given us? I
think we should feel thus. And if we have
not received a perfect testimony of His
power and loving kindness for ourselves, we
can fast and pray, in a humble and right
spirit, until we do receive it. And that will
make us satisfied under all circumstances.
For we then feel that God is allwise and
powerful, and that we are in his care. I
know that the more united we can be in our
faith and in our works, the more good we
can accomplish, and the happier we shall
be. It is my daily prayer that we may all
live so that the Holy Ghost, the Comforter,
may delight to dwell with us. Let us learn
to be wise, my sisters, and in all our
thoughts and words, cultivate the spirit of
truth and purity; then all our works will be
acceptable unto our eternal Father.
	S. L. City.			EVA WALSTRUM.

	HARRISVILLE, Weber Co., Jan. 18th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As an invitation has been extended to all
who wish to correspond with the EXPONENT,
and as I feel it a great privilege which I en-
joy in connection with many others, I wish
to avail myself of it.
	In perusing your paper, I find many sub-
jects of interest, and note among others, the
all important subject of Woman Suffrage,
which at present is occupying so great a
share of attention from Eastern ladies. I
say, God bless them, and continue to inspire
them to go on in their laudable pursuits, un-
til oppression of every kind shall cease!
	I hope soon to see a more general waking
up among our own ladies, that we may no-
tice  “the signs of the times;” and instead
of reading the trashy novels of the day, be
found reading our own good EXPONENT, ob-
serving its wise hints, and learning to write
intelligently for it. Thus becoming better
qualified to fill the every day duties of life,
and also duties of a more public nature to
which we may be called. If some think
ours a dull paper, I cannot favor their judg-
ment: I think all can learn something to
their benefit from reading it. I hail it with
pleasure and rejoice in the day I live; and
I pray my Father in Heaven to bless the
Editor and all who labor to bring to light
precious truths.
	Yours in the bonds of peace,	E. S.

			GOSHEN ,Utah, Jan. 13th. 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	I desire to mingle my voice with those of
my sisters in bearing testimony to the truth.
	I have been a member of this church for
twenty-five years; am one of the number of
which the prophet said, “There shall be two

[Column 2]
in a bed, the one shall be taken and the
other left.” Could I have been taken from
a good husband for any thing else than for
the sake of the Gospel? No indeed! But
I know this to be the work of God, and I
pray that I may ever be obedient to His
voice.
	It is a day of testing. And when I see so
many people regardless of those things
which it has been prophesied should come
to pass in the last days, and which are so
rapidly being fulfilled day by day, I wonder.
Do fathers and mothers, who are neglecting
to teach their children to understand and
walk in the ways of truth, realize the worth
and importance of these things? 	When
they use harsh and unbecoming language to
their little ones, do they count the cost, or
weigh the probable effects?	O! my bro-
thers and sisters, let us be wise in time, and
not be found sleeping with no oil in our
vessels.
	We have a good Relief Society here, in
which I am a teacher. I think we should
all be teachers and learners of the ways of
the Lord, and doers of his work.
					SARAH ROBERTS.


A POET SURPRISED.

	A correspondent thus tells a New York
paper how the Poet Laureate was recently
caught "in the suds" by Queen Victoria:

	"The Queen once sent him word that she
would honor him with a visit on the follow-
ing day. The announcement was received
with full royal welcome from the poet and his
household, which, be it said in all respect has,
with all the attractions, some of the disad-
vantages of poetical atmosphere. Order
does not there reign supreme in outward
things. The house was, however, put under
arms to receive the royal visitor; TENNYSON
arrayed himself in solemn dress-coat; Mrs.
TENNYSON wore an appropriate toilet; the
younger TENNYSONS were snatched from
mud-pies, washed and dressed, and kept in
bondage to the best clothes for the whole
afternoon, while a delicate repast of straw-
berries and cream and flowers was prepared
in an arbor out of doors. But the day
passed, and the next, and the next, and no
majesty appeared. The household drew a
sigh of regret—and lapsed into slippers and
mud-pies once more. But lo! one morning
as the children were at their favorite pas-
time in the garden, and the poet meditating
in his dressing-gown, and Mrs. TENNYSON
on domestic cares intent, a horseman dashed
up to the gate, and shouted ‘The Queen!’
and before TENNYSON could don his coat or
warn his wife, the royal carriage drew up
before the house. With the instinct of a
true gentleman, he went forward to greet his
sovereign, called his family to him, and led
her majesty into the house. Then there
was an awful pause. Suddenly the poet
raised his head and looking at the Queen,
exclaimed, ‘Oh, woe is me! For five days I
waited,ready in suitable attire,to receive my
Queen. My wife was ready, and my chil-
dren were washed and pictures to behold,
and her majesty came not; and now she has
come, and found us in what a plight!’ the
poet groaned. The Queen broke into a
merry laugh, and the ice thus broken so
gracefully and wittily did not form again
during the visit.”


Whittier, Bryant, Lowell, Longfellow, Bret
Harte and Bayard Taylor are the best paid poets,
and receive from $50 to $100 for almost anything
in verse that they write.


EX-MAYOR HALL'S DAUGHTERS.

	The Home Journal says ex-Mayor Hall
has been blessed with five daughters and
one son, and is having each of his children
educated in some special pursuit, that they
may thus be guarded against the vicissi-
tudes of fortune. His son supplements
school duties with amusement at the print-
ing press, intending to learn the art of print-
ing practically, then reporting and journal-
ism. One of the daughters is a designer
and an etcher, having learned all the details
of wood engraving at the Cooper Institute.
Her designs for books and for some of Frank
Leslie's publications have attracted much
attention. Another daughter is a writer of
children's books, as well as an accomplished
pianist. A third is receiving special train-
ing for the lyric stage, possessing a full, round
and sweet chest voice. Another is already
distinguished as a soubrette and character
actress in private circles, while the fifth is
perfecting herself as a modeste and milliner.
These respective pursuits will perhaps
never be utilized while Mr. Hall enjoys so
large and lucrative a practice as at present,
but it must be a comfort to him and his
family to know that if ever occasion arises
there are occupations open to the daughters
beyond the usually forced and precarious
ones of governesses, companions, etc., etc.


LEARN TO KEEP SILENCE.

	Good friends, it is a great and worthy
thing to know when to keep your mouth
shut! Some people live to be 60 years with-
out learning that. Indeed, the older they
grow the wider their mouths open. Carlyle
somewhere says that what people have need
to learn is the art of silence. A man or
woman who is a great gabbler at 45 is a hor-
rid creature: whether the propensity is
hereditary or acquired, it is simply awful.
This age shows an unusual development of
tongue. There are two things this genera-
tion needs to learn—when to say nothing;
and, when they say anything, to say it well.


THE SEX.

	JULIA GARETSON is taking the lead among
the Grange orators, and is said to be very
popular.

	JENNE COLLINS provided a Christmas
dinner for a large number of girls at Boffin's
Bower, Boston.

	MISS GIFFORD, formerly of Syracuse, N.
Y., is studying art in Florence, and is en-
gaged on a bust of Rev. Samuel J. May.

	REV. PHOEBE A. Hanaford, the pastor of
the Universalist Church at New Haven, ac-
cepts her call to Jersey City, but she will
not leave her present church, over which
she has been settled three years, until
April. 

	FOUR WOMEN in France have received
decorations: viz. Madame Dunbar, Superior
of a Convent at Nancy; Rosa Bonheur,
Lady Pigot and Mlle. Berthe Rocher of
Havre, who have lately founded a new
hospital.

	TWO OF the most successful and best paid
editors in New York are women––Miss
Mary L. Booth, of the "Bazar," who re-
ceives $4000 a year, and Mrs. Mary E. Dodge,
of the "Hearth and Home," who has a sal-
ary of $3000. They are both very indus-
trious and capable.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
							Millard County.
					,,	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
					,,	Belinda M. Pratt,	,,
				Miss Mary Callister,		,,
							Beaver County.
				Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
							Iron County.
					,,	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
				Miss Josephine Smith,
					,,	Mrs. Ellen Lunt, Cedar City.
					,,	Mary Ann Lunt, Cedar City. 
							Kane County
				Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra, 
							Washington County.
					,,	Caroline Jackson, St. George.
					,,	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.
				Mrs. Mary Confield, Hamlin’s Fort.


﻿AGENTS.
Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  ,,	Margt. P. Young,	,,	Amanda Kimball
  ,,	Lily Staines,		,,	Elizabeth Davis,
  ,,	Sarah Smith,		,,	Hampton, 16th
  ,,	Mary J. Thomson,			Ward,
  ,,	Margaret Steel,	,,	Sarah E. Smith,
		     Miss Sarah E. Russell.

Mrs. Laura Miner,		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
  ,,	A. B. Smith,		Miss Mary E. Cook.
Weber Connty,
  ,,	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
			Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  ,,	Mary Rich, Paris.
			     Rich County
	  ,,	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	  ,,	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			     Cache County.
	  ,,	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	  ,,	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	  ,,	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum.
	  ,,	Maria Parkinson, Wellsville.
			Box Elder County.	  ,,	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			     Davis County.
	  ,,	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	  ,,	Aurelia Rogers,	"
	  ,,	Margaret Randell, Centreville,
	  ,,	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  ,,	Susan Grant,		     ,,
	  ,,	Sylvia Clark,		     ,,
			Salt Lake County.
	  ,,	— Higgins, West Jordan,
	  ,,	Barbara Moses, Big Cottonwood.
			     Tooele County.
Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
Mrs. E. Clegg,			,,	,,
Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
			      Utah County.
	  ,,	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  ,,	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  ,,	–––– Harrison,		,,
	  ,,	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
	  ,,	Rebecca Standering, Lehi.
			      Juab County.
	  ,,	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	  ,,	Ann Pitchforth,		,,
	  ,,	Martha J. Coray, Mona,
	  ,,	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
			Sanpete County.
.	  ,,	M. A. P. Hyde, Spring City. 
	  ,,	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim, 
	  ,,	Helena Madison, Gunnison. 
Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim. 
Mrs. Mary Thorpe,


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	It is estimated that 6,000 of the 8,900 jewelers
in Newark, N. J., are now idle.
	A bar of gold worth seventy thousand dollars is
a curiosity of the day in San Francisco
	There is a great revival among the Shakanese
Indians, 164 of whom have been baptized.
	There has recently been an increase in the de-
posits of the Boston banks of over $1,000,000.
	A very large number of American sewing ma-
chines have been sold in Vienna which were never
made here.
	Fifty dollars have been voted in Waterbury,
Conn., to feed the sparrows through the winter and
build them houses.
	Count Von Moltke, the leader of the German ar-
mies recently celebrated his seventy-fourth birth-
day. He is well, strong and active.
	According to Hudson's "Journalism in America"
the United States has 5871 newspapers and period-
icals, while the rest of the world has but 7642.
	The total attendance at the Vienna Exposition
foots up, according to official count, 5,340,073, of
which 1,603,573 belonged to the noble army of
dead-heads.
	The Union Pacific Railroad Company sold during
the month of October, 1873; 19,351.82 acres of
land, at an average price of $5.68 per acre, amount-
ing to $109,640.86. Sales averaged 134.39 acres to
each purchaser. Total sales to Nov. 1st, 1873; 819
100.55 acres, at an average price of $4,52 per acre,
amounting to $3,705,201.49.
	The Southern Cultivator tells of a great grape
vine as follows—“The Lord Raleigh vine, on Roan-
oke Island, N.C., was 3 inches in diameter in 1610,
when its colony landed there—the first in North
America. It now covers 1 1/2 acres, and last year
yielded 46 barrels of wine, 1,840 gallons, at $2 per
gallon, $3,680. To European or Northern visitors
this statement would be fabulous, but it can be
seen any year; and in Terrell Co., N. C., there is
one which is a great deal more productive—this
one last year produced 63 barrels, 2,520, gallons, at
$2 per gallon $5,040.


﻿THE WOMEN of Ohio have entered a cru-
sade against whiskey. May their heroic ef-
forts meet with deserved success. A late
telegram from Cincinnati anounces the fol-
lowing:—The excitement of the woman's
whiskey war is unabated. Throughout the
State, in the most prominent of interior
towns, prayer meetings are organized in bar
rooms or on the side-walks, and patrols are
kept through all kinds of weather. The la-
dies of Greenfield, Highland county, have
inaugurated evening visits to saloons, at any
hour from six to ten o'clock. The result is
to empty each saloon by the rear door as the
women enter by the front. At New Hol-
land, Pickaway county, twenty-five ladies
have volunteered for the crusade. They
visit every shop daily. At Washington,
Fayette county, where the women initiated
the movement, the liquor traffic has been
entirely stopped. Charley Beck, whose sa-
loon is outside of the corporate limits, has
been visited by ladies every day for nearly
two weeks. He is a jolly German and
treats the ladies kindly, but refuses to accede
to their propositions. The entire country is
being scoured for signatures to the total ab-
stinence pledge. At Gallipot, Gallia county,
the ladies' brigade of active workers num-
bers ninty-one. They work in three divi-
sions, but have made little headway with
saloon keepers, some of whom order them
off their premises and they enter and put
out the lights. In most counties the success
is marked.


﻿CHARLOTTE GUILLARD was the first no-
table woman printer. She was in business
for sixty years in Paris from 1506 to 1567,
and was celebrated for the correctness of
her books. Women were employed and
commended as compositors in Italy as early
as 1481.


A LADY reporter on a news journal, asked
her husband, who had just come in from the
street, to give her an item of “local inter-
est.” He laconically complied with the re-
quest, by replying that he had torn his panta-
loons. That’s all the feeling some men
have.


It would sometimes seem as if mother-
hood were a lovely artifice of the great
Father, to wean the heart from selfishness
by a peaceful and gradual process. The
babe is self in another form. It is so inter-
woven and identified with the mother’s life,
that she passes by, almost insensible grada-
tions from herself to it; and day by day the
instinctive love of self wanes as the child-
love waxes, filling the heart with a thou-
sand new springs of tenderness.—Harriet
Beecher Stowe.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
    Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.
MRS. CARPENTER,
		Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


Woman's Exponent.

VOL. 2.	    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1874    	NO. 19.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE FATHER of the noted and worthy
Florence Nightingale, died recently, at his
residence, Embly Manor, near Romsey, Eng-
land. He was in the eightieth year of his
age.
	A SOUTHERN history of the late civil war
is to be compiled and published. Every
story has its two sides, and both may be
profitable considered.
	DISBAELI FORMALLY accepted the Pre-
miership of England on the 18th ult., and
Gladstone, who has for some years held the
office, is reported to be "glad" that this
"stone" has been so cast.
	WHEN PEOPLE feel like finding fault with
work which has been accomplished by
others, they should reflect before giving an
opinion, whether they could have done bet-
ter themselves. 
	THE SUMMIT of the Jungfrau mountain in
Switzerland, has been attained by an Ameri-
can lady which is considered a perilous feat
to perform. Miss Brewood is the name of
the lady who has thus distinguished herself.
	THE EDITORIAL contributor of the "Wo-
man's Journal" writes that "In London,
what was formerly called 'husband,' is now
a young lady's 'connubial attache,'" We
are not informed of what the latest style is
of designating a young man's better half.
	THE SEMI-centennial anniversary of the
foundation of the Franklin Institute was re-
cently celebrated at the Musical Fund Hall
in Philadelphia. Mr. Fredrick Fraley, one
of the founders of the Institute was present
and gave interesting recollection of its
establishment.
	MARSHAL BAZAINE, the old French war-
rior, who has been sentenced to spend the
remainder of his days as a prisoner, having
been charged with disloyalty, will be grant-
ed the society of his family. His wife made
the request, and the French Government
had the consideration to receive it favorably.
	PERHAPS SOME of the most unconscionable
men upon the American Continent are resi-
dents of Jersey City, N. J. It has been tele-
graphed that twenty-five women, who be-
gan the crusade against liquor in that city
went to a billiard saloon, knelt and prayed,
and exhorted for half and hour without pro-
ducing the desired effect. The men treated
them with jeers.
	AMENDMENTS TO the Indian intercourse
bill of 1855, designed to abolish the liquor
traffic among Indians, providing heavy pen-
alties for any infraction of the law against
such traffic, have been proposed. General
Harney recommends the suppression of
whiskey sellers by shooting or hanging
them. A law by which white men could be
enforced to set Indians better examples than
drinking whiskey, might have a beneficial
effect.
	MR. WENDELL Phillips asked, at the
Women's Centennial tea-party, in Boston,
"What would Sam Adams say to-day?"
And a New York editor farther queries,
"Would he have celebrated his famous tea-
party with the ladies who declared that taxa-
[Column 2]
tion without representation is tyranny, or
with the gentlemen who said so a hundred
years ago?" These questions are very sug-
gestive—Who will answer them?
	THE "AMERICAN Journal of Education"
is published monthly by E. N. Andrews, at
Chicago, price $1,50 a year. It is of conve-
nient size and of excellent typographical
appearance, and being devoted to the cause
of education, aims to be a popular as well
as professional periodical; useful to the
teacher, the school officer and all friends of
education.
	THE CALIFORNIA State Legislature has
passed a bill, making women eligible to
School offices. The same step has been pre-
viously taken by several other states; and
this is considerable in favor of woman's
abilities. If she is competent to instruct
the youth of our land, should she not cer-
tainly be possessed of sufficient intelligence
to entitle her to a voice in the arrangements
or laws by which the schools of our country
are to be governed?
	A LATE telegram from Erie, Penn., gives
the following item of news: "The wife of
Ezra Cooper, one of the wealthiest men in
this country, was arrested to-day on suspic-
ion of having murdered a servant girl, of
whom it is said she was jealous, imagining
there was too great an intimacy between the
deceased and her husband." Another sad
instance of the dire effects of letting pas-
sion, and not principle, take possession of,
and rule the human heart.
	CASES OF poverty and distress, in New
York city are lately being brought to light
in astonishing magnitude. Women from the
wealthiest and most refined families of the
city, have been so touched by the sights of
destitution and suffering which have pre-
sented themselves, that they have not only
offered the contents of their purses, and
clothing from their wardrobes, but some
have even volunteered their services as
seamstresses for the poor. We repeat the
words of one old lady, a recipient of mercy,
"God bless the rich who are charitable to
the poor." And He will. 
	THE LEGISLATURE has appropriated $10.-
000 to the Deseret Agricultural and Manu-
facturing Society. Miss Joan M. Campbell
has been elected secretary of the Society,
in the place of her father, Mr. R. L. Camp-
bell, resigned. Miss Mary L. Campbell is
assistant secretary, and Mr. G. B. Wallace
corresponding secretary. Ladies through-
out the Territory should keep in view, the
fact that they are desired and expected to do
their part in making the Territorial Fair for
each season a success; and their works for
this purpose should always be contemplated
and begun in good time. 	A CHEERFUL and energetic woman of this
city—whose name we have not permision to
publish—has been chief assistant to her hus-
band in building two houses. She said to
us, "He prepared the concrete while I laid
the lower part of the house and one of the
gable ends; then we exchanged work, and I
mixed the concrete while he finished the
upper part." During the same conversation,
this lady remarked that she was so eager to
learn the news of the day, it seemed as
[Column 3]
though she could hardly wait for the papers
to be issued. We would like Senator Frel-
inghuyson, or the Salt Lake correspondent
of the "New North West" to inform us why
this lady should be disfranchised.
	IN THE recently published Autobiography
of John Stuart Mill, M. P. he has declared
almost his entire life a disappointment.
His father, who had been educated for the
ministry but became an unbeliever, was his
teacher. At three years of age the child was
put to studying Greek, and at eight he had
read most of the renowned Greek works.
So his life and studies were continued; really
anything but pleasant and happy to himself.
He tells how he was disappointed "In his
fellow-students, in his fellow-laborers, in so-
ciety into which he had ceased to go, in his
father's opinions, in his own, in his political
efforts, in Parliament, in the philosophical
radicals, in the workingmen, in the Board on
which he worked all his life, in the reforms
he saw effected; in every thing with which
his life was associated except his fellowship
in feeling and labor with his wife, and that
for only seven years." Sad failure of a life,
one of honor and affluence, yet with no sat-
isfaction in it, for the man to whom it was
kindly lent. Parents who are ambitious for
the future of their children, may better
teach them to pray to and reverence God,
without ever putting a book into their hands,
than to crowd their brains with all sorts of
worldly knowledge in order that they may
become great in the eyes of the world.
More than one useful moral might be drawn
from the life-history of Mr. Mill as given by
himself.


HUMOR AND SARCASM.

	It is not everybody who knows where to
joke, or when, or how; and whoever is ig-
norant of these conditions had better not
joke at all. A gentleman never attempts to
be humorous at the expense of people with
whom he is but slightly acquainted. In fact,
it is neither good manners nor wise policy
to joke at anybody's expense; that is to say,
to make anybody uncomfortable merely to
arise a laugh. Old Aesop, who was doubt-
less the subject of many a gibe on account
of his humped back, tells the whole story in
his fable of "The Boys and the Frogs."
What was jolly for the youngsters was death
to the croakers. A jest may cut deeper
than a cruse. Some men are so constituted
that they cannot take even a friendly joke
in good part, and instead of repaying it in
the same light coin, will requite it with con-
tumely and insult. Never banter one of
this class, for he will brood over your badi-
nage long after you have forgotten it, and it
is not prudent to incur any one's enmity for
the sake of uttering a smart double entendre
or a tart repartee. Ridicule, at best, is a
perilous weapon. Satire, however, when
levelled at social follies and political evils,
is not only legitimate, but commendable.
It has shamed down more abuses than were
ever abolished by force or logic.


Plans have been prepared for the bridge over the
Mississippi at Quincy, Ill. It will be 2,400 feet in
length, double-decked, with a draw of 300 feet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


"DON'T WHIP HIM."

		ANONYMOUS.

Our Bobby was pinching the kittens,
	And kicking the primmer about,
And pulling a beetle to pieces,
	His face all awry in a pout;
His mamma, who silent and patient,
	Had heard all his fretting and noise,
Now reached for the whip on the mantle—
	The terror of four-year-old boys.

But Grandma, with snowy-white kerchief
	Pinned over her warm, loving breast,
Where ten little heads had been pillowed
	And rocked into childhood's sweet rest,
Looked up from her little wool stocking,
	Just finished and laid on her knee.
And said, "dear, you'll ruin his temper,
	Please listen a moment to me.

"Don't whip him; his father before him
	Was flogged and shut up in the dark,
And stood on one foot in the corner,
	And disciplined up to the mark;
We gave him no credit for honor,
	But watched him as spiders watch flies,
And what did it teach him? why mainly
	To practise deceit and tell lies.

We called it affection and duty—
	God knows we were fond of the boy—
But I guess his remembrance of childhood
	Is not quite a well-spring of joy.
So put up that willow whip, daughter,
	And try little Bobby once more;
You see he's forgotten his passion,
	And lies, half asleep, on the floor."

Then Grandmother lifted her darling,
	And patted his head on her breast,
And sang an old favorite ditty,
	Till all Bobby's woes were at rest;
And so the wee whip, bright and yellow,
	Was laid on the mantle again,
And this is  way that these grandmas'
	Spoil nine little boys out of ten.


R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Sinah Bishop, Secretary of the Re-
lief Society of Paradise, Cache Co., writes
that on the 5th of Jan., Sister Maughan,
President of the Relief Societies in Cache
County, met with the sisters of Paradise and
reorganized the Relief Society there. Some
of the former officers having moved from
the settlement, they were released and
others duly appointed to fill the vacant
places. Sister Martha Wright was appoint-
ed President, Sister Lydia R. Remington
first, and Ann James second Counselors, and
Sister Elizabeth S. Jackson Treasurer, with
a sufficient number of Teachers. Sister
Maughan gave some excellent instruction,
which the sisters appreciated and seemed
desirous of profiting by. Mrs. Bishop con-
cludes her report with, "Hoping we may
individually and as a Society add our influ-
ence and unite in the building up of the
Kingdom of God, we are your sisters in the
Gospel Covenant." 

	Mrs. Betsy Gold writes from Washington,
Washington Co., that the young ladies of
that place, with a few others of more ma-
ture years, met at the residence of ex Bishop
R. D. Covington, Feb. 9th, 1874, and organ-
ized a Young Ladies' Retrenchment Soci-
ety, with the following officers:
	MISS LUCY COOPER, President,
	 "	CHRISTY JOHNSON,		}
	 "	EMILY HARMON,			} Counselors
	 "	IDA PARKER, Secretary,
	 "	HANNAH LARSON, Treasurer.


A distinguished German surgeon named
Esmarch has invented a process whereby
amputation of the limbs may be performed
bloodless by applying bandages to the limbs
above the point of operating. The method
has been successfully tried in New York
city.


[Column 1]
	"BEAR YE ONE ANOTHER'S
			BURDENS."
	Galatians, 6th chapter, 2nd verse.
	To me this text seems peculiarly applica-
ble to women. A woman's nature is natur-
ally one of sympathy, and none are so ready
to lend assistance, to succor the weak, aid
the poor, pour balm into the wounded heart,
and to comfort by every means in her power
those whose fortunes are hard, as gentle,
self-sacrificing woman. O woman! surely
your mission is one of tenderness and love.
How particularly necessary then, that we
should love one another; that we may the
more readily aid, comfort, strengthen, en-
courage and truly sympathize with each
other. If our labors are arduous and com-
plicated, they may be materially lightened
by mutual participation and co-operation.
We can all understand this in relation to
practical everyday life, and as that is a com-
plete prototype of our spiritual life, the
same rule will apply in spiritual matters as
well as in those of a temporal nature.
Every human soul, at any rate every wo-
man's soul, needs support and comfort from
outside sources. We are none of us entirely
independent of each other, no matter how
self-reliant, or how strong-minded, however
extraordinary our gifts, intellect, attain-
ments or possessions. Sometimes I think
the stronger the mind, the more sympathy
it needs. If it is continually pouring forth
to others, the fountain must needs be replen-
ished. To be sure we have always our
Heavenly Father to go to, and his fountains
are inexhaustible; but then we are mortals,
dwelling in mortal bodies, and as such, have
need of sympathy from mortal beings.
	We are engaged in a stupendous work,
view it in whatever light we may, and the
work is increasing on every side. It is im-
possible to define its limits, or determine its
magnitude. Think you then, there is no
need of assistance from one another? We
have each of us the same object in view, a
similar interest at stake, if we could only
realize it; we are working not only for our
own mutual improvement and advancement,
but for the good of future generations. The
seed we sow will assuredly spring up, blos-
som and bear fruit in the future; .and having
the same prize to obtain, the same goal to
reach, aiming at the same great result, the
regeneration of woman; let us be philan-
thropists in the truest sense of the word;
and a constant support to each other in
word, in action, and in very deed. If we
have strong minds or bodies, so much the
better for us, and so much the more devolves
upon us to do, for "where much is given
much will be required." If we possess
gifts, talents, or abilities, are we justified in
allowing them to perish for the want of use,
any more than the miser in hoarding up his
gold while the poor around him are starv-
ing? I think not; but in humility, laying
all upon the altar of our faith, trusting in
God for guidance and support, let us exert
every faculty we possess, in the great work
of advancement and redemption. Let us
stretch forth a hand to the weak and erring,
lift up the fallen, raise the bowed down,
help the tempted to resist temptation, and
stimulate those who are dilatory to prompt
and decided action.
	We have been told that "Pure religion
and undefiled before God and the Father, is
to visit the widow and the fatherless in their
afflictions,"&c. Do we not visit the widow
and the orphan, the poor, the sick, the igno-
rant, the weak and by every means in our
power contribute to their comfort, well-be-
ing and happiness? And we do not say
[Column 2]
"Be thou clothed and warmed and fed," but
we act in the matter, and our actions and
words correspond; then are we not bearing
the burdens of the weak, and striving to
fulfill the law of Christ, that "Inasmuch as
ye do it unto the least of these, ye do it unto
me?" Sisters, take courage; our love for
each other is increasing, we are becoming
acquainted with the character and develop-
ments of woman, our associations with each
other, (in our organizations) are gradually,
yet steadity uniting our influence. We may
be frowned upon, have to encounter preju-
dice and scorn, be criticized on all sides by
those who do not understand our motives;
but we must bear it bravely—without
shrinking or looking backward, trusting in
God and in each other; and always having
in view the great Cause in which we are
engaged; our march must be onward, our
motto progression.
	God has not given to all the same gifts,
therefore He must have intended us to help
each other; women as well as men. Why
should not women uphold each other by be-
ing associated together? I know it is the
opinion of most men that women are in-
capable of being true to each other, espec-
ially where there is the least chance for
rivalry either in affection, opinion or char-
acter; but notwithstanding man's voice to
the contrary, I believe it is possible for
women to arrive at a higher standard ofcharacter and excellence than has ever yet
been attained. And if man, being the ver-
itable living head, will lend us his sanction
and approbation, will look upon our efforts
with a smile of approval, even though he
withholds the helping hand, which it is our
right and privilege to expect, we will yet
succeed in the accomplishment of a purpose,
purifying and renovating in its influence,
powerful and effectual in its results for good
upon the human family. And many yet
unborn will have reason to bless those who
braved persecution, insult and calumny, to
establish organizations for the benefit of
woman; and as woman was the first to yield
to temptation and to induce man to follow
her, so ought she to be diligent and untir-
ing in her efforts to reinstate herself in the
presence of her Creator—and assist in per-
fecting and leading man back again also.
For whatever exalts, elevates, purifies and
refines woman, cannot fail to have a direct
influence upon man, for is it not given unto
her to "Bear the souls of men?"
			BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 18th, 1874.


THE WILL MUST BE TRAINED, NOT
			BROKEN.
	Men often speak of breaking the will of a
child, but it seems to me they had better
break the neck. The will needs regulating,
not destroying. I should as soon think of
breaking the legs of a horse in training
him, as a child's will. I would discipline
and develop it into harmonious proportions.
I never yet heard of a will in itself too strong,
more than of an arm too mighty, or a mind too
comprehensive in its grasp, too powerful in
its hold. The instruction of children should
be such as to animate, inspire, train, but not
to hew, cut and carve; for I would always
treat a child as a live tree, which was to be
helped to grow, never as dry, dead timber
to be carved into this or that shape, and to
have certain moldings grooved upon it. A
live tree, and not dead timber, is every lit-
tle child.—Theodore Parker.
	Music in the St. Louis public schools costs $28,
000 a year.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A LETTER.
		South Cottonwood, Feb. 1874.
MRS. L. Greene Richards:—
	I have been thinking of writing something
for the EXPONENT a long time; but being
young and timid, I have only just gained
sufficient courage to undertake the task.
First, I must ask permission of you, to have
my letter published. I do not know as I
can write any thing to edify any one, but I
think by trying, I may be able to benefit
myself.
	I will speak to the young daughters of
Zion. I wish I could see you all, and tell
you what I think about some things. I
would ask you to be steadfast, ever walking
in the paths of righteousness. We should
be more and more cautious every day, of be-
ing led astray, remembering that we are
surrounded with every kind of influence,
both bad and good, I fear almost more of the
former than the latter. We should, if pos-
sible, guard against all evil things. And of
course we can if we will. Let us retrench
in our dress and in our actions, and be very
careful with whom we associate. The young
men of our day like to see us dress well, and
we like to please them; but we should not
go to excess, either to gratify their whims
or our own. I am sorry there are not more
young men in this Territory, that are very
good, quiet kind of men; but there are some
such, and I would give them all the credit
which is due them. If we will live as we
should live, the right one will come along
in the right time, for every girl, not one
need throw herself away. Let us ever
serve God and keep his commandments.
	I will bid my young sisters good day. God
bless you all and help you to do his will, is
ever the prayer of your faithful sister.
							E. E. D.


[Column 1]
﻿	THE INFLUENCE OF FLOWERS.
	As spring is here, and time for the
planting of flowers now approaches, we
would call attention to this beautiful and
healthful employment. Upon this subject,
a successful and experienced New York busi-
ness man, has written as follows:
	“If the penchants of men could be turned
from billiards, dinners, club-houses, theaters,
riches, excessive business application and
the vulgar mania for cheap, vapid distinc-
tion; and the penchants of ladies from the
enslavements of arbitrary forms and fash-
ions and the trivial occupations which these
impose, to a real, practical fondness for flow-
ers—a physical, moral and intellectual bene-
fit to them and to their children would prove
the happy result.
	Every part of flower culture, from the
preparation of the soil to the gathering of
the seed, requires a gentle, skillful, patient
hand—hence its wholesome and disciplining
influence in these directions. As inhaling,
noisome odors, living among unsightly sur-
roundings, associating with foul-mouthed,
untidy people tend to stifle every aesthetic
sense and beget a kindred taste and spirit,
so living among the flowers and, as it were,
talking their chaste language, breathing
their fragrance, watching and caring for the
plant from the seed to maturity, cannot fail
to purify, or to create—to strengthen every
refining inpulse of the soul.
	In some of the vilest districts of New
York, we occasionally see in windows, gera-
niums, morning glories, ivies or other vigor-
ous plants. It maybe from the fifth story of
a building—the home of perhaps twenty
families. Call in at this room having the
[Column 2]
flowers in its window and see if in its scanty
furniture there is not a tidiness and preci-
sion not noticeable in other apartments. See
if the woman and her husband and her chil-
dren are not more kindly spoken, more man-
nerly, more decent than the occupants of
the other sections. Still further—inquire if
this family of the flowers has not “seen bet-
ter days” than those which condemned it to
a fifth story room in a neighborhood of filth
and wickedness.
	The natural love of flowers guarantees a
superior natural intelligence. It guarantees
a kind heart and affectionate impulses. Pick
out, then, this fifth story room if you are in
search of a servant. The little girl will not
choke your baby to keep it from crying; the
man will not kick and bruise your horse;
the woman will do your house-work dili-
gently and thank you sincerely for every act
of benevolence.
	The general diffusion—or a more general
diffusion—of a love of flowers is what, above
all other things, we sordid, plodding Ameri-
can people need. Ye heads of large houses,
ye brokers, ye merchant princes, alas! would
that ye merited such high sounding names,
—listen! cut down your expenses for just
one year a thousand dollars or so, and invest
this saving in a flower-garden—aye, a flow-
er-bed. Start for your offices a little later
and return a little earlier each day. Devote
an hour to the companionship of flowers.
It will invest home with a new, potent and
enduring charm; it will open a path to
higher thoughts; it will unite you more
closely to your wife and children; it will re-
veal the grinding selfishness of your busi-
ness relations; it will induce a more liberal
course towards those in your employ and it
will have its effect to raise the disreputable
standard of most mercantile pursuits as they
are at this day conducted.
	The question is often asked among new
acquaintances. “Are you fond of flowers?”
Rarely, we guess, is the reply in the nega-
tive—for those who are not fond of flowers
are ashamed to make it known; and full
well they may be. Are not the most capti-
vating scenes in nature but vast flower-gar-
dens? A natural park from which we cull
the choicest gems to adorn the epitome
grounds about our homes. They lack, in-
deed, but the grandeur of an extended
view. The cultivated grassy lawn is not to
be found upon the untouched hillside. The
tricolor Geraniums, the Roses, Camellias,
Gladioli and Carnations of to-day—glorious
results of the florist’s patient skill—we can
scarcely believe are the sisters of the mod-
est, simple plants which we meet in the
fields. Alas, then, for her or for him who
loves not the flower-garden—for, with the
same eye and sentiments, must be viewed
the hill and the valley, the woods and the
fields and all of earth’s growing things with
which God has beautified the world.”


A generous Georgia girl recently peddled
out 300 kisses at ten cents a smack and then
gave the money to the poor to buy coal and
flannel and things.
	Honorable mention is made of a Maine
servant girl who is now serving her 82nd
winter under the same roof. Per contra, a
Missouri girl aged 9, keeps her father’s
house and makes his trowsers.
	There are milk baths in New York City
which are patronized largely by ladies who
pay $5 per bath in milk that is warranted
pure, for the sake of improving their health
and beautifying their complexion.


FLOWER GARDENS FOR CHILDREN.

	It is desirable on many accounts that chil-
dren should cultivate flowers rather than
fruits or vegetables. Most children are fond
of flowers, and can be taught to love them,
and the hardier and commoner sorts at least
do not tax the energies so heavily as either
fruits or vegetables in cultivation. Besides,
since flowers appeal solely to the moral sense
they facilitate the inculcation of generous
habits. As children acquire strength and
skill, they may gradually be intrusted with
the care of vegetables and fruits; but they
must be taught to use the products of their
little gardens as a means of conferring hap-
piness on others; for thus can their own
happiness be most effectually attained, since
that which is selfishly enjoyed must ulti-
mately result in discontent. But of all the
lessons to be learned in a garden, the most
valuable is the art of observing; for so varied,
so delicate, so minute, and yet so unerring,
are the operations of Nature, that, though
the closest study may fail to fathom her
mysteries, the rewards of such a study are
so rich and so surprising that even the stu-
dent of tender years is perpetually stimula-
ted to fresh researches. This interest in
natural objects, once awakened, will prove
an inexhaustible source of pleasure while
life lasts: for it is an interest that the com-
monest health can gratify: and he that has
made good use of his powers of observation,
he that has trained his senses to bring him
accurate information, cannot "travel from
Dan to Beersheba and cry 'Tis all barren."—
"Home and School."


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	Kansas City has five miles of metropolitan tele-
graph.
	Rochester, N. Y., has a new school house cost-
ing $28,000.
	Locomotives are now heated in Russia with the
raw petroleum of the Volga
	There are only eight gold watches in Harrisburg,
Pa.—according to the official tax levy.
	A club of farmers in Chesterfield, Ill., takes $100
worth of magazines and newspapers annually.
	Without reckoning exports, the English consump-
tion of coal amounts to 100,000,000 tons per annum.
	Stanislaus Co., Cal., has 250 farms of over five
hundred acres each—ranging from 504 to 39,148
acres.
	Agassiz’s house and library were all the property
he had to dispose of by will. He had no time to
make money.
	In Carthage, Ill., boys under the age of 16 are,
by a city ordinance recently passed, prohibited from
chewing tobacco.
	The City of New York invests $65,000,000 in
manufactures, $90,000,000 in seventy-one banks,
and $200,000,000 in the liquor business.
	The Government Bureau of Engraving and Print-
ing, at Washington, employs 1,405 men with sala-
ries amounting to $800,000.
	The new Minnesota Legislature has cut down the
cost of stationery from $4,000 to $500, and refus-
ed to appropriate any money for postage stamps.
	Mr. Wm. Trotter of Taylor Co., Kentucky, has
fallen heir to $500,000, bequeathed by an aunt in
England. Before his good luck overtook him he
used to be old Bill Trotter.
	Two thousand dollars is a pretty high price to
pay for a single rooster. That is what Mr. Davis of
Portland has just given to Ira Batchelder for a black
Spanish cock—considered the best game bird in the
country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a.m., and from 2 to 5 p.m. on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1874.


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
	It is estimated that one quarter of the in-
habitants born upon the earth, die during
their first year, and one half, before reaching
their fifth year......Bass, the English brew-
er is reported to have refused the peerage
offered him.......Scotland receives $1,000,000
a year from California for wheat bags......
The "coming man" in the musical circles of
Europe is May Bruch......The body of the
infant violinist, James Speaight, who re-
cently died at Boston, will be sent to Eng-
land......A New York man recently eloped
with his thirteen-year old sister-in-law......
About $10,000,000 worth of eggs were im-
ported into England within the last nine
months......A Lee county, Ga., woman cul-
tivates 1,000 acres of cotton and 500 acres of
corn......The Rev. Jesse Lee did the first
methodist preaching ever done in Boston, on
the Common, in 1790......The late Thomas J.
(Stonewall) Jackson left one daughter, an in-
teresting young lady who is now in Char-
lotte, N.C. at school......Jacksonville Flori-
da, is said to have become a city of boarding-
houses......Boston expends $142,000 yearly
for church music......Miss Harriet Agusta
Smith of Wisconsin, has gained the title of
a heroic woman, by shooting a bear.......A
Universalist clergywoman of Kittery, Me.,
recently officiated at the marriage of her
own son......Portland, Maine, has four hun-
dred manufacturing establishments......East-
ern Pennsylvania has about forty Welsh Con-
gregational churches......Spurgeon, the cele-
brated English preacher, is making a tour
of the Continent for his health......Miss Nel-
lie Watson of Flint, Michigan, has gone to
Burmah, Asia, as a missionary......Bienniel
sessions of their legislatures are being talked
of by several of the Western States......The
Iowa Senate is considered a heavy body, the
average weight of each member being over
one hundred and seventy pounds.......The
Government, since its beginning, has given
away to soldiers 74,052,800 acres of land
......Every year, Aroostook, Maine, sells ten
thousand dollars’worth of honey...In Connec-
ticut last year, there were 104 business fail-
ures, the total liabilities of which were $1,
752,000......A car load of silk worms’ eggs,
passed through Chicago lately, on the way
from Japan to France......George F. Train
writes, “my speech-making days are over;
those who have never heard me, never will.”
......The life of Theodore Parker, by Mr.
Frothingham is promised shortly to appear
......The wife of the Itaiian Minister at the
Hague, Mrne. Bcrtniatti, is called the most
regal looking lady in Washington...It is Em-
erson who says, “We do not count on a ma’ns
years until he has nothing else to count”
......A bill has been passed by the United
States Senate' to take posession of the Louis-
ville and Portland Canal aud pay all endebt-
edness on the same......California claims a
net gain in population of 33,196, for eleven
months of 1873......Nearly ten and a half
miles of iron structure was built last year,
by a single bridge company in Baltimore....
It is reported that the Spanish authority
propose to draft all vagrants into the army
......New Haven has a rich old who keeps
her hens in the parlor and feeds them on
jelly cake and walnuts......Is is reported that
in Sussex County, New Jersey, hydropho-
bia among the dogs and horses, prevails to
an alarming extent.....When 1,011 bills had
been introduced in the House of Represent-
atives this session, 189 were private bilis
......Two hundred and sixty-eight thousand,
five hundred and tweenty-three acres of
land have been forfeited for non-payment of
taxes in South Carolina during the past year
[Column 2]
......A treaty providing for the interchange
of postal cards berween the United States
and Germany, recently went into effect......
Senator Logan refuses to tell how old he is.
Whose business is it bnt his own?.......A
Chicago female sexton is charged with re-
serving all the best graves for the young
men......It has been ascertained that the
Rev. Mr- Drake and wife, of Indianna both
died from the effects of poison, inhailed
through the opperatinn of tearing green pa-
per from a wall......Late reports from Ohio
say the woman’s war on the liquor traffic is
unabated......The Brooklyn Woman's Tem-
perance Society is trying to devise means
to prevent the sale of liquor on Saturdays
......Two editors in San Francisco lately
quarrelled, fired several shots on the street
and were arrested......A fire in the Empire
coal mine, at Wilksbarre, Pa. has been burn-
ing for more than six weeks.


[Column 1]
	 ﻿WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	In order that the following act may be read
in connection with some portions of extracts to
which we here give place, we publish it, as
taken from the published Laws of Utah.  Read
it carefully, friends, and before you have finish-
ed this article, you will, without doubt, refer to
it once or twice again.
				 AN ACT,
CONFERRING UPON WOMEN THE ELECTIVE
				FRANCHISE.
	Section 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legis-
lative Assembly of the Territory of Utah: That every
woman of the age of twenty-one years who has resided
in this Territory six months next preceeding any general
or special election, born or naturalized in the United
States, or who is the wife, widow or the daughter of a
native-born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this Territory.
	Sec. 2. All laws or parts of laws conflicting with this
act are hereby repeated.
	Approved, February 12th, 1870.
	Mrs. Duniway has, in the “New North
West” of Jan. 30th, an article containing a
lengthy portion of a letter from Salt Lake, on
the Frelinghuysen Bill. She says:
	"A legal gentleman of Salt Lake City, whose acquaint-
ance and friendship we value highly, has written us at
length in favor of Senator Frelinghuysen's Utah bill.
We are sorry he does not give us liberty to publish his
argument in full over his own signature, as its subject
matter is candidly discussed. But he fails to convince
us that the Bill is what it ought to be.”
	Speaking of the provision of the bill men-
tioned, her friend has written:
	“By this provision the right of dower will be returned
to every lawful wife in Utah, the repeal of which, by
legislation, has been the cause of so much complaint.
	We should like this legal defender (?) of the
rights of woman, to tell us something more
about the complaint which has been made con-
cerning this act of our Territorial legislature,
as this is the first we have heard of it. We
wonder if he supposes the women of Utah
would relinquish the power of the ballot, with
all its additional rights, for the mercenary con-

[Column 2]
sideration to which he refers. They are by no
means such foolish worshippers of money, as
he may be, very likely is, himself.
	Again we extract:
	“But yourself and Mr. Blackwell object to the Freling-
huysen bill because it amends the statute of Utah con-
fering suffrage on women. Have either of you ever seen
that law?—a law that rivets the fetters of degradation
upon the poor, brutalized victims of lust and fanaticism
in Utah, and adds the contempt of compelling them to
draw tighter the chains while they wear them. Having
first, by a system of brutalism so revolting that in other
civilized countries it consigns those who indulge in it to
the cell of the felon, reduced the women of Utah to the
most abject shame, they seek to divert the attention of
the country from their crimes by conferring, nominally,
the right to vote on women, and some of our avowed
advocates of the question of universal suffrage allow
themselves to be caught in this transparent snare.
Why is it that the anomaly of reducing women to mere
'things' through the system of polygamy has not invit-
ed scrutiny into the paradox of investing these 'things'
with the elective franchise? When Napoleon was cho-
sen First General he had the ballots of the people, but
how? 'Vote as you please, but remember, that he who
does not cast his vote for General Bonaparte shall be
shot.' The women of Utah are entitled to vote, but
every Mormon woman knows that to vote for her free-
dom is to bring down upon her head swift and irrevoca-
ble ruin. You might as well have advocated suffrage
for the slaves of the South before their emancipation.
The ballot that does not and cannot express the senti-
ment of the voter is a burlesque on the right of suffrage,
in that the suffrage makes women sanction their own
degradation and support a system which they at heart
abhor. It is a cruelty that has about it a coolness and
ingenuity that is purely satanic. And your intelligent
advocates of woman’s right to vote in order to give her
independence, and elevate her to the social and busi-
ness departments of life, are blinded by their seeming
adherence to principle into an indorsement of that
which to-day is doing more to keep the women of Utah
in the bondage of polygamy than all else.
	"Would not the giving of the ballot to the Southern
slave without emancipating him from the control of
his master have been but a cruel mockery? It would
have added simply to the power of the oppressor.
	"Such is the situation in Utah, and the residents of
this woman-degrading Territory know this and have
asked that the statute be annulled, which enables the
enemies of woman's elevation to keep her in her pres-
ent degraded position.
	"Let emancipation be accomplished first, and then the
ballot can be given where it can be used to express the
wishes of the voter.
	"Now as to the statute of Utah which we ask shall be
amended:
	"First, you are aware, probably. that a large majority
of women in Utah are of foreign birth, and when, ac-
cording to Mormon statements, you are informed that
there are three thousand men, who have from one to
twenty wives each, you can judge of the number of
women who are living in polygamy—ten thousand is a
low estimate. There are then three thousand male na-
tives, and ten thousand women who are committed by
their votes to the system of polygamy—saying nothing
of the non-polygamous movement—the former being a
majority of two-thirds of the votes of the Territory.
The law not only allows the wives, but the daughters of
male citizens to vote, without reference to age and with-
out naturalization, requiring no time of residence ex-
cept on the part of the husband, and thus we are over-
borne by a tide of ignorance and fanaticism in defiance
of all right or justice.
	“You call Senator Frelinghuysen’s Bill a ‘serpent.’
If you had felt the serpent’s tooth that this Bill proposes
to extract you would not thus speak. I yield to no one
in the sincerity of my advocacy of the doctrine of Uni-
versal Suffrage; but its application must, like all other
measures, be governed by circumstances of time and
place. You seem not to comprehend that you cannot
apply the same rule to a set of ignorant crazy fanatics
that you could to a civilized and sane community. Re-
member that when you deal with lunatics you may
have to put them into straight-jacket treatment; and
rules perfectly applicable to other Territories cannot be
adopted in Utah. Her people must first be emancipated
from religious fanaticism: must realize something of
the responsibilities of citizens before they can be trust-
ed with those sacred privileges which even the best-in-
formed often abuse."
	Mrs. Dunaway then comments thus:—
	“If our friend doesn’t want us to print what he writes,
he mustn’t write such good letters. And with this
apology for publishing so much of his letter as relates
to Senator Frelinghuysen’s Bill, we now proceed to no-
tice the main feature of the Bill, which is the determi-
nation to disenfranchise the Women of Utah:
	We have no doubt but our friend truthfully portrays
the system of compelling Mormon wives to vote ac-


cording to the dictates of their masters; but we fail to
see why the women, only, should be deprived of the
right of suffrage because the Mormon men compel them
to abuse the right. We should heartily second the pas-
sage of a Bill to disfranchise both men and women who
live in polygamy, but, despite our correspondent’s dis-
claimer, we emphatically insist that any legislation
which makes invidious distinction against women as
American citizens is a serpent more dangerous than the
deadliest Cobra.
	We all know that the old English common law recog-
nizes no property rights in woman which her husband
is bound to respect. And while the right of dower to
the first, or lawful wife, in Utah, or anywhere else,
should be respected, we must not forget that there are
thousands of Mormon women whom the provisions of
this Bill would cut off from any claim to a support from
their fractional husbands for themselves and children.
These women are just as good, morally, as the ‘legal,’
or first wives, many of whom espoused Mormonism,
polygamy and all, of their own free-will and choice.
They and their children have moral rights, despite their
degradation, which the legal wife and children cannot
rightfully ignore.
	If the ballot in their hands, and those of their masters,
is a fetter, strike it from the hands of both oppressor
and oppressed and we shall not complain; but let Con-
gress pass the infamous Bill of insidious class legisla-
tion now pending, and the Nation shall witness a cla-
mor compared to which that over the back-salary steal
was mere child’s play.”
	We do not envy Mrs. Duniway the “acquaint-
ance and friendship,” of one who could descend
to such misstatements and direct falsehoods.
We presume he had good reasons for wishing
his name withheld from publication. Perhaps
it was that he felt himself unable to withstand
the keen shafts of Truth which might be point-
ed at him from the “Deseret News.” Or that
he dreaded the idea of falling under the good-
natured, but well-aimed criticisms of the “Salt
Lake Herald.” It is quite as well for him, at
all events, that he is a coward as well as tra-
ducer. For it is possible that some of those
women, who have been “reduced to mere
THINGS through the system of polygamy,”
have still sufficient fire left in their composi-
tion, to make Salt Lake too warm for such a
villifier of their purity and intelligence.
	But we are surprised, mortified and indig-
nant that Mrs. D.—a WOMAN—a well-informed,
sensible woman, should allow herself to be so
easily led to so far concur in sentiments intend-
ed to prove the inferiority of her sex. Why
did she not answer this calumniator of woman’s
worth, in the language of a true, brave de-
fender of honor and of woman? Was he not
basely maligning her sisters at Salt Lake, and,
indeed, casting indignities upon her sex in gen-
eral, by his inferences? That TEN THOUSAND
WOMEN, already possessed of the high power of
franchise—for which they are all contending—
would be tamely, meanly submissive to debas-
ing and degrading injuries from three thousand
men, is an insult to WOMAN, besides being a
burlesque on common sense. We should cer-
tainly suppose that any woman could readily
perceive that this false character is no defender
of woman’s virtue, no advocate of her rights;
but that he seeks to hide his littleness, under a
thin covering of sophistry. If there exists a
serpent with a venomous tooth in Utah, it is
with such as himself, who would take from
woman the legitimate rights, which the spirit
of truth and liberty has confered.
	It is not the subject but our space which we
have exhausted for the present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	HARPER'S MONTHLY for this month, con-
tains illustrated articles on the Light-houses,
and the Observatories of the United States,
also other reading, suited to almost every taste.
For sale at Campbell & Patterson’s, Main St.
	A DIRECTORY of Salt Lake City and Utah
Territory, to be edited by Mr. E. L. Sloan, and


issued by the S. L. Herald Publishing Co., is
announced. The work is in competent hands
and as it will be one of great and general bene-
fit it is respectfully desired that every facility
for obtaining correct information of names,
residences, etc., be extended to canvassers.

	THE MEMBERS of the new City Council, ex-
cepting two not present, were sworn into office
at the regular meeting on the evening of the
17th ult. 

	THE ANNIVERSARY of Washington's birth-
day falling on Sunday this year, Monday the
23rd was observed as a holiday instead. Al-
though there were no public ceremonies in
honor of the occasion, business was generally
suspended, and the "Star Spangled Banner"
floated from many public buildings and places
of business. Quietness amd peace prevailed
during the day.

	WE LEARN from recent communications to
the S. L. Herald that workmen from Franklin,
Weston, Lewiston and Oxford, in Cache Co.,
are energetically grading on the U. N. R. R., as
fast as weather will permit. The officers and
employees are highly commended for their “en-
ergy, courtesy and attention to their duties.”
We are also pleased to notice in the same paper
a well deserved compliment paid to the con-
ductor on the Utah Central.

	THE TWENTY-FIRST Session of the Legisla-
ture of Utah, closed at 6 o’clock A. M., on Sat-
urday, Feb. 21st. the members having been at
work the previous night. At the joint session
towards the close, and during election of offi-
cers, on motion of Mr. Mann, Miss Joan M.
Campbell and Miss Georgiana Snow were elect-
ed Notaries Public for Salt Lake County. The
ladies of Utah should be fast preparing them-
selves to occupy responsible and worthy posi-
tion; and it is gratifying to know that many of
them are taking advantage of every opportu-
nity presented for this purpose.


FROM DIXIE.
		ST.GEORGE, Feb. 8th, 1874

DEAR EXPONENT.—
	We are all well, and enjoying ourselves.
Our principle enthusiasm is now about the
Temple. Seven hundred and thirty cords of
black rock have been hauled on the ground,
and all laid except about thirty cords. The
remainder of the black rock will be used for
the footing of the columns inside of the
Temple. There is about two hundred cords
of beautiful red sandstone already on the
ground. The quarry is open for a quarter
of a mile, making room for the hands to
work, who have left the black rock quarry.
	St. George and Washington had a Sunday
School jubilee in the Tabernacle here, yes-
terday. It was a highly creditable affair,
showing that the Sunday School Teachers
have not spent their time in vain. By the
examination of the classes, it was evinced
that they understood doctrine and history,
taught in the Bible, Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants, as well as the his-
tory of the Church from its rise, also the set-
tling of this Southern country. Among the
prizes awarded were one hundred Hymn
Books, thirteen bound volumes of the Juve-
nile Instructor, thirty Books of Mormon,
fifty Catechisms, twenty-five Readers and
Primers, and several hundred cards and
portraits. The County Superintendent is
Elder Miles P. Romney.
	The weather is fine; people are making
gardens. Truly yours,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.


FOLLIES.

	To think that the more a man eats the fatter and
stronger he will become.
	To believe that the more hours children study at
school the faster they learn.
	To conclude that if exercise is good for the health,
the more violent and exhausting it is the more good
is done.
	To imagine that every hour taken from sleep is
an hour gained.
	To act on the presumption that the smallest room
in the house is large enough to sleep in.
	To commit an act which is felt in itself to be
prejudicial, hoping that, somehow, or other it may
be done in your case with impunity.
	To advise another to take a remedy which you
have tried yourself, without making inquiry as to
whether the conditions are alike.
	To eat without an appetite, or to continue to eat
after it has been satisfied, merely to gratify the
taste.


NEGLECT OF DUTY.

	The lesson of the pestilence at Memphis
and Shreveport is plain and simple. The
prevalence of the disease is directly traced
to official neglect of duty. During the sum-
mer the streets were full of reeking filth,
and some alley-ways had not been cleansed
for months. Nothing seemed to arouse
those in authority to a sense of the danger,
until the fearful harvest of neglect was
reaped in the early autumn. The usual pop-
ulation of Shreveport is said to have been
about 10,000 in summer and 14,000 in win-
ter. During the prevalence of the fever it
was not over 4,500.
	Neglect of duty costs, and the cost must
be paid. Sight drafts do not always come
in the shape in which they were presented
at Shreveport, but they come sooner or
later. If we do not elect good men to make
laws for us and the proper officers to execute
them, we must smart for this neglect of
duty.—Ex.


TWELVE GOOD RULES.

	1. Cultivate an equable temper; many a
man has fallen dead in a fit of passion.
	2. Eat regularly, not over thrice a day.
	3. Go to bed at regular hours. Get up as
soon as you wake yourself, and do not sleep
in the day time, at least not longer than ten
minutes.
	4. Work always by the day and not by
the job.
	5. Stop working before you are very much
tired—before you are "fagged out."
	6. Cultivate a generous and accommodat-
ing temper.
	7. Never cross a bridge before you come
to it; this will save you half the trouble of
life.
	8. Never eat when you are not hungry,
nor drink when you are not thirsty.
	9. Let your appetite always come unin-
vited.
	10. Cool off in a place greatly warmer
than that in which you have been exercis-
ing; this simple rule would prevent incalcu-
lable sickness and save millions of lives
every year.
	11. Never resist a call of nature.
	12. Never allow yourself to be chilled
"through and through;" it is this which de-
stroys so many every year, in a few days'
sickness, from pneumonia, called by some
lung fever or inflammation of the lungs.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
	     "SISTERLY FRIENDSHIP."

Give me the pure friendship of sisterly love
'Tis the sweet, balmy dew, shed from flowers above;
'Tis the virgin's trimmed lamp, to lighten the way
To a garden of flowers, e'er green, bright and gay.
It will search the dark caverns, of hopeless despair,
And soothe and encourage hearts wearied with care;
It is music to charm the wild nature in man,
A pure gem that sparkles as nothing else can.
'Tis a shield for the young in the battle with strife,
And gives warmth like the sun, in the winter of life;
It gently forewarns, when temptation looks sweet,
And cautions us kindly, of thorns near our feet;
And smiling through tears of dark sorrow and grief,
It unselfishly renders our troubles relief.
Ah! yes, with meek Mercy's vail, Scorn's frown 'twill
	screen,
In Charity's modest cloak often 'tis seen.
Crossing deserts and oceans and mountains of snow,
To bless and encourage, where'er we may go.

Oh yes! It will come from its pure spirit home
To tell us of happiness shortly to come.--
Dear Sister Ellen in robes of fair flowers,
Came whispering to me of true friendship "like ours."
The flowers in wreaths, were all linked like a chain,
Thus forming robes gorgeous, yet simple and plain.
Oh! The beauty and lovliness none can express,
As my Ellen appeared in her bright spirit dress:
And with the sweet comfort she poured in my heart,
All the wealth of the world could not cause me to part:
She called her fair flower robe, perfect and sweet,
Emblematic of sisterly friendship complete.
When safe "o'er the river," in that home of flowers,
We'll twine wreaths for robes for dear sisters of ours;
The chain of true friendship will link all pure hearts,
And its balm will heal wounds from all envious darts.
And this grand, eternal pow'r never will end--
I ask no gem richer than a pure sister-friend.
							M. O. KELTING.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	If the first duty of the woman lies at home, it is
the duty of the man to provide the home, and pro-
tect and sustain her in it. Moreover, as man is
king in his domain, so woman should be queen in
hers—the home should be her kingdom; she should
be the disburser of the revenues supplied by the
man, and made responsible for the exercise of her
powers for the general prosperity of her domain and
the welfare and happiness of her subjects.
	The love of beauty and refinement belongs to
every true woman. She ought to desire, in modera-
tion, pretty dresses, and delight in beautiful colors
and graceful fabrics; she ought to take a certain,
not too excessive, pride in herself, and be solicitous
to have all belonging to her well-chosen and in good
taste: to care for the perfect ordering of her house,
and harmony and fitness of her furniture, the clean-
liness of her surroundings, and good style of her
arrangements; she ought not to like singularity,
either of habit or appearance, or be able to stand
out against a fashion when fashion has become cus-
tom: she ought to make herself conspicuous only by
the perfection of her taste, by the grace and harmo-
ny of her dress, and unobtrusive good-breeding of 
her manners: she ought to set the seal of gentlewo-
man on every square inch of her life, and shed the
radiance of her own beauty and refinement on every
material object about her.—Selected.
							[For the EXPONENT
	Grandma's "Dutch Cake".—Take one half tea-
cup full of good yeast, one cup of sugar, three eggs,
two spoonfulls of shortening, one cup of raisins, or
dried grapes, one cup of warm, sweet milk or water,
and flour enough to make a thick batter; let it stand
and rise and bake like bread; you will find it good
eating and not unhealthy				M. O. K.

	Meat Toast.—Take as much meat as you require
and mince finely. To one pint of mince put two
tablespoonfuls of cream, or fresh, rich milk. Boil
it five minutes; prepare well buttered toast, and
spread the mince on them. Strew over this
well grated bread crumbs, a little parsley if desired,
and some small pieces of butter. Brown in a quick
oven and serve hot.

	To Cure a Cold.—Mother K. is nearly ninety years
of age, has a voice like a ship's captain, and her

[Column 2]
cure for a cold is so good and simple I must tell you
about it. Cut an onion in slices, add salt, pepper
and a little piece of butter with a half pint of wa-
ter. Stew until the onion is done. Drink the liquor
hot, when going to bed. It will cause the sweetest
sleep; and three times trying will cure, if taken as
soon as the cold is. By putting in a little honey or
sugar instead of the seasoning, you have a pleasant
tea. Please try it.

	Recipe for Crystalizing Grasses.—Get one pound 
of alum, dissolve in one quart of water scalding
hot; pour into a wide crock and put your grass inside
holding the stem in your hand for ten minutes, then
turn them over and rest or wait for five or ten min-
utes more; turn them again and so on until the wa-
ter is nearly cold; then lay them out to dry. The
water ca nbe heated again and used in the same way
for smaller grasses. The largest should be used first.
Grasses treated in this way and mixed with some
that have not been so treated, make a very nice
boquet.—H. V.

	Peas' Cake.--Look over and wash one pint of dry,
white marrow-fat peas (whole or split); add two
quarts of water cover close and stew gently, until
the peas are quite reduced to a pulp; strain through
a course sieve or a colander; salt to the taste, and 
pour into a flat dish to the depth of an inch or more;
let this stand to cool several hours, or until it is quite
firm; cut in short, slices half an inch thick, and serve
cold, as a relish, wlth bread and butter and stewed
fruit. It is palatable, nutritious and wholesome,
provided one does not eat too much. Cooked in
steam, or in a double boiler, it requires less water.

	To Color Azure Blue.--This will not fade on
cotton. For three pounds of goods; use of copperas
4 ozs; prussiate of potash, 2 ozs; oil vitriol, 1 oz;
dissolve the copperas in two pails of soft water; and
scald the goods in this solution two hours, then take
out and rinse in cold water. Empty the kettle and
put in two pails of clean water. Dissolve in it the
prussiate of potash; boil the goods in this solution
twenty minutes; take out and stir in the oil of vit-
riol. Again put in the goods and let them remain
until as dark as desired. Rinse thoroughly in cold
water and let it dry; afterwards wash in soap suds
and this color will not fade.


DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

	Jesus said "Gather up the fragments that
nothing be lost." It has been said truthfully,
by some writer, that the pride and extrava-
gance of some women when indulged in,
would bankrupt a nation. Upon the same prin-
ciple, a state a county or a family would be in-
volved. If every person could realize that
to be in debt is bondage—according to the
law of ancient Israel, they are servants un-
til their debts are paid. If this law was un-
derstood, how few there are who would be
willing to go in debt beyond their means.
Instead of the wife or the daughters teasing
father for the ten dollar bonnet or dress, we
should hear; "Oh! dear Papa, if you are not
able to afford it, I can make out with one
that costs only five." And the true wife and
mother would say, "Yes my dear, you are a
good girl and you will feel a great deal bet-
ter in a plain calico dress than you would in
a silk one that was not paid for."
	Some women are like children, they want
every thing they see, whether they need it
or not. A Prophet of God has said, "Eat
less and wear less, and you will have more
time to cultivate the mind. The body with-
out the spirit is dead, but the spirit without
the body is life and immortality. How nec-
essary it is then that we cultivate and adorn
the immortdl as well as the mortal. An
ancient Apostle said, "To be carnally mind-
ed is death but to be spiritually minded is
life and peace."				W. E.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The Tichborne Claimant has already cost
the Government of England the small sum
of $2,500,000.
	Three gentlemen are in the field for Gov-
ernor of Vermont—Bradley Barlow, a
banker, N. T. Sprague, Jr., farmer and manu-
facturer, and T. W. Park, a railroad man.
	James E. Harvey, formerly minister to
Portugal, and more recently editor of the
Washington Patriot, is to be the editor of
the New Age at Philadelphia.
	Rev. Robert Collyer has followed Mr.
Beecher into fiction. "John Watkinson's
Wife" is the subject, and she is at present
installed in the pages of the Lakeside
Monthly.
	King John of Saxony having translated
the best work of the English poets, has
lately been engaged on the poems of Amer-
ican writers. He is a great admirer of the
English language, and requires it to be
taught in the lyceums.
	Love and sorrow in our souls resemble the
fire in some deep mines; it may for a long
time be apparently smothered, we fancy that
it is entirely extinguished, but some sud-
den draught, some ashes dropped, and the
flames, wild and consuming, will break forth
with redoubled fury.—Bremer.
	One of the funniest things in nature is a
council of fashionable youths over a new
coat just brought home. The inspection of
the cloth, bindings and distance of buttons,
anxious examination it the shoulders are
wide enough, the patting in the back, and
walking off in suspense to decide the final
question whether the "tails split," are
enough to set a woman off in unextinguish-
able laughter.
	Of Law there can be no less acknowledged
than that her seat is in the bosom of God,
her voice the harmony of the world, all
things in heaven and earth do her homage,
the very least as feeling her care, and the
greatest as not exempted from her power,
both angels and men and creatures of what
condition soever, though each in different
sort and manner, yet all with uniform con-
sent, admiring her as the mother of their
peace and joy.—Hooker.
	There are many men of superior talents
and refined taste, who, with lively imagina-
tions, and powers of action, not inferior to
those of other people, read a great deal, and
digest what they read, but go no further:
and can never be prevailed upon to turn
their information to account. It is of little
benefit to the world, that a man thinks
deeply and justly, if the results of his re-
searches are applied to no useful end. Con-
templation and action may be compared to
Rachel and Leah; the first was fairest, but
the latter most fruitful.
	No woman now goes to the wash-tubs, or
a fox hunt, to pruning grape vines, garden-
ing, or vegetable growing, with corsets on.
So we hope the day will come when horri-
ble head-dresses, dowdy frills and furbelows,
monstrous bunnets and trailing skirts will
disappear, like other vulgar things, from the
promenade, the street, the church, and such
other public places as are manifestly inap-
propriate for them. There is a time and
place for everything, and ladies only need
to recognize this fact in connection with
their costumes to always dress sensibly and
healthfully.—Home Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VOCAL CULTURE.

* * * * * * * Until recently the
practical belief has been that the ability to
read or speak well was a gift, not an acquire-
ment.
	No analysis of the subject had been made,
and but few teachers were able to detect the
radical defects in the utterances of pupils,
much less to correct them. Reading books
contained a few exercises in articulation,
emphasis, inflection, pauses &c., and these
accidents were considered the Alpha and
Omega of utterance.
	Now, however, a more careful investiga-
tion of the subject has disclosed the fact
that every vocal expression contains six es-
sential elements, viz.: Form of voice, quali-
ty of voice, force of voice, stress of voice,
pitch of voice, and movement of voice, and
that excellence in reading or speaking con-
sists in a proper use of these six elements;
that from a combination of two or more of
these elements all other attributes of utter-
ance are produced, and that the defects of
reading and speaking are almost entirely the
result of an improper use of one or more of
these six elements.
	The defects in inflection, emphasis, ar-
ticulation, &c., that weaken or destroy the
power of expression are few indeed in com-
parison to the defects in quality, form, stress,
pitch, force and movement. And yet it is,
perhaps, safe to affirm that nine teachers out
of every ten and ninety-nine speakers out of
every hundred can neither define nor illus-
trate form, much less give it application to
the various styles of thought. How one
can read correctly or teach others to read
correctly, a selection the elements of which
he does not understand practically or theo-
retically, is a mystery yet unsolved. No
one would presume to sing a tune, ignorant
of the notes composing the tune, and yet to
read without knowing the elements of utter-
ance is quite as difficult.
	That these elements of expression exist
and are observed by all who have attained
distinction in this department, all will admit
who have attentively observed.
	Booth, Murdoch, Barret, Siddons, Cush-
man, all read pathos with effusive form,
pure tone, subdued force, medium stress,
low pitch, and slow movement; didactic
thoughts with expulsive form, pure tone,
moderate force, radical stress, middle pitch,
and moderate movement; and this they do
because it is in harmony with the principles
of nature—principles established by the
Almighty himself "when the morning stars
sang together and all the sons of God shout-
ed for joy;" principles still exhibited by
Him in every bird that carrols its joyous
song of praise to its Maker, in every hissing
serpent that crawls upon the ground, in
every sighing breeze that murmurs among
the branches, and every angry, roaring tor-
nado that sweeps across our prairies. That
which constitutes the difference in the read-
ing of these distinguished artists is not in
the use of different elements' but the group-
ing of the same elements,
	To read aright, we must determine and
then employ the appropriate elements of
utterance.—"American Journal of Educa-
tion."


THE GOVERNOR of Maine has asked the
Supreme Court for a decision upon the ques-
tion of the legal right of a woman to be a
Justice of the Peace. Wouldn’t the gov-
ernor of Utah prefer to decide all such
questions himself?


REFLECTIONS.

Dear Exponent:
	I would call attention to the 18th chapter
of Revelations—read the whole chapter.
Now, what I wish to say concerning it, is
this:—Are we to understand, as is generally
conceded, that this "fall of Babylon" means
her overthrow and utter destruction; or does
it refer to her departure from the paths of
rectitude, and the principles of rigeteous-
ness, virtue and morality? I think the lat-
ter: and that the sayings therein containted,
strictly personate and declare the present
situation of this American, or Republican
Government. For how—oh how! hath she
fallen! That great city, Babylon. Now
Babylon signifies confusion—mixed:—What
government so confused and mixed as this?
bearing the elements of every other govern-
ment, and the inhabitants of every other
nation. Where have the merchants of all
nations made themselves rich in the traffic
of metals and all merchandise, and in slaves
and souls of men?
	After speaking of her fall, it says in verse
8. "Therefore shall her plagues come in one
day," and tells what they are—"Death and
mourning and famine, and she shall be ut-
terly burned with fire." Then, in the 10th
verse it says "In one hour is thy judgment
come." Also in the 17th verse, "For in one
hour so great riches is come to nought."
We understand that one day with the Lord
is as a thousand years, and one hour, the
twenty-fourth part of a day, or of a thou-
sand years, is forty-one years and two-thirds
of a year.
	Have not the destructions here spoken of
commenced? Was there not "death and
mourning" when Columbia's sons were slain
by thousands and tens of thousands in the 
late internecine war? Is not the earth with
its contents being burned up? Is not the
blood of the prophets found in her? See
24th verse. And if Jerusalem was to be
adjudged guilty of the blood of all the pro-
phets from the days of Able to the death of
Zachariah in their day, how much more shall
this government be charged with the blood
of Prophets, of Saints and all the blood that
has been shed upon the earth! having the ex-
amples of all previous generations:—May
God help us to understand.
							M.


RAILROADS IN ITALY.

	A traveler, who spent much time in Eu-
rope, pronounces the railroads of Italy the
finest in the world. The road beds are al-
most entirely smooth, the embankments are
all of solid masonry, while the bridges are
of cut stone, often built in the most artistic
style. The stations are most magnificent
structures, the waiting rooms being elegantly
frescoed, and the seats of the finest velvet.
At all stations where meals are taken, the
train stops an hour. Every man connected
with a railroad wears a uniform, and his
position is indicated by a badge. Passengers
are shown into carriages by the conductors,
who see that they have a comfortable seat.
The light baggage is carried in for them by
porters. The guard, or conductor, raises his
hat as he politely asks you for your ticket,
and thanks you for your trouble as he returns
it. Accidents are almost entirely unknown
on Italian railroads, and trains arrive at sta-
tions on the minute. The cost of making
and equipping these roads is enormous. The
coal used in generating steam is brought
from England, and costs $10 per ton at sea-
port.


AN INTERESTING PAPER.

	Mr. Editor—Dear Sir: My father cut the
following from a paper printed in Albion,
Orleans Co., N. Y., some forty years ago.
Never having seen it in any other paper, I
will send it to you for a place in your col-
umn of “Religious Reading.—EMMA S. D.,
Albany Co., N. Y.
	“A description of the person of Jesus
Christ as it was found in an ancient manu-
script sent by PUBLIUS LENTULLUS, Presi-
dent of Judea, to the Senate of Rome:
	“There lives at this time, in Judea, a
man of singular character, whose name is
JESUS CHRIST. The barbarians esteem him
as their prophet; but his followers adore
him as the immediate offspring of the im-
mortal God. He is endowed with such un-
paralleled virtue as to call back the dead
from their graves, and to heal every kind of
disease with a word or touch. His person
is tall and elegantly shaped; his aspect amia-
ble and reverent; his hair grows in those
beauteous shades which no united colors can
match, falling in graceful curls below his
ears, agreeably couching on his shoulders
and parting on the crown of his head; his
dress of the sect of Nazarites; his forhead
smooth and large; his cheeks without either
spot, save that of lovely red; his nose and
mouth are formed with exquisite symmetry;
his beard is thick and suitable to the hair
of his head, reaching a little below his chin,
and parting in the middle like a fork; his
eyes are bright, clear and serene. He re-
bukes with mildness, and invites with the
most tender, persuasive language; his whole
address, whether in word or deed being ele-
gant, grave, and strictly characteristic of so
exalted a being. No man has ever seen him
laugh: but the whole world beholds him
weep frequently; and so persuasive are his
tears, that the whole multitude cannot with-
hold their tears from joining in sympathy
with him. He is modest, temperate and
wise. In short, whatever the phenomenon
may turn out in the end, he seems at pres-
ent to be a man of excellent beauty and di-
vine perfections, every way surpasing
men.'"—"Rural New Yorker."


THE SEX.

	Four hundred women have enlisted in
the temperance movement at Xenia, Ohio.
	Mrs. Benjamin Wood recently appeared
at a charity ball wearing only $40,000 worth
of diamonds and point lace.
	Mrs. Maxwell is engrossing clerk, Mrs.
Elliott is postmaster, and Mrs. Quixon is
paper-folder for the Iowa Legislature.
	Samuel A. Adams was recently granted a
divorce by a Vermont court "on account of
the intolerable severity of his wife Sarah."
	At the seige of Ancona in the eleventh
century, the city was more grievously press-
ed with famine than by the arms of the be-
seigers. A woman heart-broken by the ex-
haustion of her two sons, and hopeless of
other relief opened a vein in her left arm;
and having prepared and disuguised the
blood which flowed from it with spices and
condiments (for these luxuries still abound-
ed,) as if to mock the cravings of that hun-
ger which had slight need of any further
stimulant than its own sad necessity, pre-
sented them with the beverage—thus pro-
longing the existence of her children, like
the bird of which similar tenderness is
fabled, even at the price of that tide of life
by which her own was supported.—History
of Italy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			Millard County.
	  ,,	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	  ,,	Belinda M. Pratt, 	,,
	Miss Mary Callister,	,,
			Beaver County.
	Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
			Iron County.
	  ,,	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
	Miss Josephine Smith,	,,
	Mrs. Ellen Lunt, Cedar City.
	  ,,	Mary Ann Lunt, Cedar City.
			Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
			Washington County.
	  ,,	Caroline Jackson, St. George.
	  ,,	Elizabeth Canfield, Hamlin's Fort.


﻿				AGENTS.

				Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  "	Margt. P. Young,	  "	Amanda Kimball
  "	Lily Staines,		  "	Elizabeth Davis,
  "	Sarah Smith,		  "	Hampton, 16th
  "	Mary J.Thomson,			Ward,
  "	Margaret Steel,	  "	Sarah E. Smith,
		     Miss Sarah E. Russell.
			     Weber County,
	Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
	  “	Caroline Lunn, Huntsville,
	Miss Maggie McBride, Eden,
		       Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  "	Mary Rich, Paris.
			Rich County
	  "	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	  "	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			Cache County.
	  "	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	  "	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	  "	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum.
	  “	Maria Parkinson, Wellsville. 
			Box Elder County.
	  "	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			Davis County.
	  "	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	  "	Aurelia Rogers,     "
	  "	Margaret Randell, CentrevilIe,
	  "	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  "	Susan Grant,		     "
	  "	Sylvia Clark,		     "
			Salt Lake County.
	  "	—— Higgins, West Jordan,
	  "	Barbara Moses, Big Cottonwood.
			Tooele County.
	Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
	Mrs. E. Clegg,
	Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
			Utah County.
	  "	—— Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  "	—— Harrison, 	    "
	  "	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
	  "	Rebecca Standering, Lehi.
			Juab County.
	  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	  "	Ann Pitchforth,		"
	  "	Martha J. Coray, Mona,
	  "	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
			Sanpete County.
	  "	M. A. P. Hyde, Spring City.
	  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
	Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
	Mrs. Mary Thorpe, 		"


RIGHTS VERSUS OBLIGATIONS.

	A man's wife is very often the real promo-
ter of his public actions, yet it is an ex-
tremely small minority of women who have
anything that deserves the name of a con-
science on public affairs. How could a wo-
man have a conscience about public affairs if
she were taught to believe that they were no
concern of hers? Give women the same
rights as men, and the same obligations
would follow. Another reason is the vast
amount of brain power and practical busi-
ness talent which now lie waste for want of
outlet into that great field of usefulness, in
which no one would pretend that such quali-
ties were not very much wanted. The whole
movement of modern society from the mid-
dle ages until now, and which has been great-
ly accelerated in the present century, points
in the direction of the political enfranchise-
ment of women. Their expulsion is the last
remnant of the old state of society. The
regime of privileges and disabilities, and
of all monopolies, is gone or going, and the
whole spirit of the time is against prede-
termining by law that one set of persons
should be allowed by right of birth to have
and to do what others are not by any amount
of exertion or superiority of talent allowed
to retain.—John Stuart Mill.


GRACE OF MOTION.

	There is no gainsaying the beauty and
general fascination of American women, but
some of them are lamentably deficient in a
certain finish of manner. They are graceful,
but too quick in their motions to achieve
readily that admirable repose and distinc-
tion of bearing which is so indicative of
education and good-breeding.
	The first law of a lady's code is to move
slowly. The importance of its observance
is hardly at first apparent. It enables her,
however, to retain her presence of mind, to
be always on the watch, never to commit a
blunder, not get vulgarly excited, and never
to seem in a hurry.
	Slow motion is especially necessary upon
occasions of ceremony, in getting in and
out of a carriage, ascending a flight of steps,
or traversing the length of a room in the
presence of other persons. One is often
shocked by seeing ladies in rich dresses, and
even with trains, trip up and down steps,
across pavements, and in and out of car-
riages, in a conscious way that indicates very
brief possession of state appliances, and so
unerring is the indication of inaptitude that
even a street crowd will jeer at this evidence
of want of habit and training.—Selected.


A MEDALLION IN BUTTER.

	There is exhibited in St. Louis just now a
curious bit of work in amateur art. This is
a medallion of a sleeping face, very well
executed it is said, not in clay nor marble,
but in butter. It came from the head and
hands of an Arkansas farmer's wife, who
caught the idea while busy in her dairy.
She made a quantity of studies with the
aid of her butter paddle, cedar sticks, broom-
straws and a camel's hair pencil, and at last
succeeded in modeling a really creditable
head. It is ingeniously mounted in a milk-
pan, which in turn is framed. There is
something pathetic in the endeavor of this
untaught, hard-working woman, to use her
natural talent in the intervals of buttermak-
ing and dish-washing.


﻿CORSETS AND CHRISTIANITY.—A lady who
had charge of a girl's Bible class, speaking
of defective home training, said that her
best pupil, 18 years of age, had caused her
the most acute anxiety. Rain or shine she
was always at her post. The girl's whole
soul seemed absorbed in the straightening
out of intricate theological problems; "and
yet," said the teacher," the girl was so pale
and wan that I was afraid every Sabbath
would be her last in the class. One day she
fainted, and in trying to restore her I loosed
her dress, and what do you think I found?
Corsets so tightly drawn that a full respira-
tion was impossible. I removed them and
found that the girl's ribs actually lapped!
I took her to her mother, a very prominent
and useful church member, and stated the
case without reserve. "Well, you see," said
the parent, "Fanny never had any figure.
I shonldn't be surprised if the lacings were
drawn a little too tight. Her waist is nat-
urally so large that it is almost impossible
to make anything fit genteely on her. How
is your class prospering, Miss——? I hope
you are drawing many souls to Christ."

	In Dresden the ladies are combining to
regulate the price of groceries, meats, and
what they are dressed in.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when cases requre.
	Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office  opposite. Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m. 
MRS. CARPENTER,
		Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50
			H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST. 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
		Where he is prepared to do a 
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.
H WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the view of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	 20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter  
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50 -	-	34 00
30 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young. handsomely framed, selling
	price. $4		-	-	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 2. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1874. 		NO. 20.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE WOMEN'S temperance crusade in Ohio
and Indiana is unabated.

	THE LIFE of Agassiz, written by his wife,
is now completed and ready for the press.
The lady has been employed on it for several
years. It will doubtless prove a work of
great interest and value.

	STEPHEN AND Abby Foster, of Worces-
ter, Massachusetts, lately allowed a valua-
ble homestead, belonging to them, to be sold
at auction for one hundred dollars. And at
sixty-five years of age they are cast adrift
in the world, with no other dependence than
their own work and that of a noble daugh-
ter. All because they refused to sustain
taxation without representation. Every
good and just cause has its heroic votaries.

	MRS. LEONARD and Mrs. Chickering of
Boston, speak in favor of a separate prison
for women. The latter states that 4,000
women are yearly being committed to the
jails in Massachusetts, and coming out rarely
or never better, generally worse. Such an
estimate, if correct, should justify imme-
diate, favorable action on the part of the
Prison Committee, to whom a petition from
the ladies has been made.

	THE RAISING of frogs for market has been
proposed, as the demand so much exceeds
the supply that they are becoming scarce.
Seth Green believes "there is nothing made
in vain" and even the stagnant pools might
be converted into frog ponds; also that "It
would make the man wealthy who could
raise a million frogs and get them to mar-
ket." After reading Mr. Green's experi-
ence for two years, in which he mentions
the numerous dangers besetting the infan-
tile frogs, we concluded it might cost a
small fortune to get them there.

	EX-PRESIDENT MILLARD Fillmore died
on the 8th inst., at his residence in Buffalo,
New York. President Grant, on the 9th,
announced the event to the country; eulo-
gized the deceased, and ordered the Execu-
tive Mansion and public departments to be
draped in mourning also that suitable mili-
tary and naval honors be paid on the occasion
as a token of respect for the memory of the
ex-President. Mr. Fillmore's name was in-
timately connected with the early history of
this Territory, having signed the bill creat-
ing it, and  appointed its first governor. In
honor to him, one of its counties is called
Millard, while the seat thereof, once the
Territory's capital, is known as the city of
Fillmore.


Girls who place all their dependence on
pink and white beauty ought to remember
what N. P. Willis once wrote on the power
of education to beautify—that it absolutely
chiselled the features; that he had seen
many a clumsy nose and thick pair of lips
so modified by thought awakened and active
sentiment as to be unrecognizable. And he
put it on the ground that we so often see
people homely and unattractive in youth,
bloom in middle life into a softened Indian
Summer of good looks and mellow tones.


MEDICAL EDUCATION FOR WOMEN IN
PARIS.—A Boston paper, of a date evidently
previous to the collapse of the Napoleonic
dynasty, says; "The Empress is at last go-
ing to have a wish dear to her heart real-
ized—the foundation of a free medical col-
lege, for ladies, in Paris. The supporters of
the plan are Nelaton, Milne-Eduards, and
ex-Minister of Public Instruction Duruy.
Three-fourths of the parishes of France are
without a 'medicine man;' the Sisters of
Charity, with their stock of simples, is all
the healing art within reach; and though
the law is very severe against unlicensed
practitioners, it winks at the substitutes cre-
ated by necessity. Sweden has taken the
lead in this matter, and by the cures of the
doctresses a sensible diminution has been
the result in the death-rate of the rural
populations." Here is an acknowledgment
which is of some value to lady-physicians,
especially in the way of encouraging them
to persevere in so useful a department of
effort.


Mrs. Prescott, an intelligent and educated
half-breed, appeared before the Committee
on State Affairs of the Wisconsin Legisla-
ture, to plead for the Winnebagoes. She
asked how the whites would like the treat-
ment some of the Indians had received were
the case reversed.


[Column 1]
			A LETTER,
			EROM J. R.
		GLENDALE, Feb. 12th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	Dear Friend:—On the first of this month
I visited Kanab, to give a parting word to
Bro. John L. Blythe and the brethren who
go with him on a mission to Arizona. If I
did not know that God is with us—and if I
had never seen His power made manifest in
making the feeble strong—my heart would
be filled with fear for this humble band of
brethren: As it is—they are full of hope,
faith, and energy; and I believe they will
be blessed of the Lord, and find happy
homes in the much dreaded land of the
Colorado. Here I will leave them, and turn
my thoughts toward fulfilling the promise I
gave you so long ago.
	On the 5th of October, 1869, a small com-
pany of men, under the Presidency of Jacob
Hamblin—the famous “Indian Man”—left
Kanab with the intention of visiting the
Moquis Indians, Our first day's ride of 25
miles, brought us to the Western foot of the
Buck skin Mountain. The country passed
over, was covered with sage brush and
scrubby cedars, no running water. We
found a few “Pockets”—holes in rocks—fill-
ed with rain water. These "Pockets," in
the winter and rainy seasons, abound all
over Southern Utah, and some parts of Ari-
zona.
	We camped near a band of Piedes. Their
medicine man "pow-wow'ed" all night over
one of their Braves who was accidentally
wounded a few days before, while hunting
deer; the thigh bone was badly broken, and
the bullet still in his body. The following
day three Piedes of this band went with us
as guides.
[Column 2]
	I was much pleased with the scenery of
the Buckskin mountain. The western as-
cent is gradual, free from rock, and hence
favorable for wagon roads. The excellent
groves of pine poles and saw timber are
cheering to the eye. We traveled 16 miles
in a south-easterly direction, and came to
the Eastern slope. This descent is steep and
rocky. Four miles from the "Jump off,"
we find the House spring. The water, a
small, pure stream, gushes from a cove in a
purple mountain. The facilities for winter-
ing stock are excellent, but too small for
farming.
	Oct. 7th, we moved 12 miles, direction
south-east, keeping close under a high pur-
ple mountain; heavy sand the entire dis-
tance. We nooned at Jacob’s Pool—so
named because there is a good place to make
a pool—a small spring affording water barely
sufficient for our horses; wood scarce. We
found the boat, left there by Jacob Hamblin
in 1860, in a demoralized condition. The
lumber was sound, but the nails were all
gone, and the boards sadly warped. We
held a council and resolved to rest there for
the night; and agreed to divorce the boat,
"Pride of the West" forever! The boys
made several large paddles from boards
taken from the boat; these we carried on
our pack horses to the river.
	On the 8th we made an early start. Our
trail still kept close to the foot of the moun-
tain. That day we doubled the Purple
Promontory and swung round to the North.
	The portion of country there is very
sandy, and often broken by deep, rock
bound gullies. For 12 miles there was
plenty of grass, then the soil changed from
sand to purple or blue clay—at times cover-
ed with thin slate rock, but the greater part
soft and dusty like an ash heap. Our horses
often sinking to their knees in this dry
mineral. Thirteen miles on, we reached
Soap Creek, a small stream impregnated
with alkali, and other poisons, rendering it
unfit for use. From here we passed on two
miles and halted for dinner.
	From this camping place on, we found no
feed until we reached the Colorado, near the
mouth of the Pah-reah; and the road was
very bad, deep washes in considerable num-
bers, and very dusty.
	We passed Boulder Point—so named from
the fact that there are many boulders from
10 to 20 feet in hight and nearly square,
poised upon a small column of clay, 6 or 8
feet high, wind and water having evidently
washed the rest of the earth away. As we
neared the river, the mountains were tower-
ing high and close to each other. Just be-
fore sunset the scene presented was wild and
romantic but of a dark, death like shading.
We camped on the banks of the Colorado,
having traveled 25 miles.
	October 9th. Peter Shirts or any other man
is welcome to the Pah-reah. At the mouth
thereof, there is no timber, no farm-
ing land, and the water seems always to be
muddy.
	At this point the Colorado is about 250
yards wide. We spent the day in construct-
ing a raft, and in rafting ourselves over.
We made eight trips, and succeeded in
reaching the eastern shore with the loss of
two horses.
			To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT.
			RETROSPECTION.

				By M. J. T.

	A good wife sat in her kitchen door,
	Her face was faded, and old and poor;
	Her hands were weary, and wanted rest,
	As she folded them silently on her breast.
	And her heart was sad as she sat and thought
	Of the many days she had plannned and wrought,
	Of the socks she’d knit, and the clothes she’d made
	For the little ones that around her played.
	How, early and late she had ever strove
	With heart, and hands in the labors of love,
	To train the minds and to guide the feet
	In the ways of righteousness pure and sweet;
	And her footsteps were ceaseless many a day,
	For the little hands at their merry play.

	But all alone she was sitting there,
	And her heart was weary and full of care:
	For the little feet from the garden stile
	Had wandered many a weary mile;
	And the mother’s hope and the father’s pride
	Were fondly set on the boy that died,
	With the laughing eye and the curly hair,
	With the will to do and the heart to dare.
	No more would the bright young faces come
	To brighten with sunshine their early home;
	The hopes and joys she had cherished then
	Might never gladden her heart again!
	But her eye lit up with a tender smile
	As she thought of him who had shared her toil,
	The hopes and cares of her weary lot,
	Her heart grew glad and she murmured not.

	For she thought of the days when she was fair,
	With a merry face and golden hair;
	When he stood so proudly by her side,
	And press’d her to his heart—a bride.
	But years had come and years had gone,
	And the blooming bride was aged and wan;
	For time and sickness and wearying care
	Had faded her cheek and blanched her hair.
	But he who had loved her a youthful bride,
	Still held her tenderly by his side;
	And he said, to him she was far more fair
	Than the dainty daughters of fashion were.
	She had walked by his side for many years,
	She had shared his joys, his hopes and fears,
	And he still would clasp her to his heart
	And hold her there until death should part.


R. S. REPORTS.

HEBER  CITY, WASATCH CO., Feb. 26th, 1874
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:—
	The Relief Society which was instituted
by President Joseph Smith, years ago, and
has been reorganized by President Brigham
Young, I view as one of the most sacred
and glorious organizations ever established.
For in it is given to us, to find employment
and means of support for the poor, to visit
the sick and administer to their wants, to
prove ourselves in various ways, that our
faith and works may be blended together.
Living in harmony with each other and
each moving in her own proper sphere. I
also rejoice in reading of the organizations
of the young in different parts of the Terri-
tory; and feel that inestimable good will be
the result, where these associations are pro-
perly conducted and encouraged.
						ELLEN LEE.


[Column 1]
	﻿SAFEGUARDS TO PURITY.

	There are many parents who fancy that
they can bring up their children, and espe-
cially their daughters, in a large degree ig-
norant of the evil that is in the world. As
the king in the fairy tale banished all spin-
ning wheels from his dominions, that his
daughter might not wound her fingers with
a spindle, and realize the prophecy of the
spiteful fairy at her christening, even so
mothers withhold useful and necessary
knowledge from their daughters, lest with
it may be mingled something leading to
harm. And even as this charming princess,
notwithstanding every precaution, as by
accident came upon the only spinning wheel

[Column 2]
in the realm, was wounded by the spindle,
and fell into her hundred-years’ slumber, so
often does the young lady unawares, stum-
ble upon experiences of whose possible exis-
tence she never dreamed, and which are
far more disastrous to her than those that
befell, the sleeping beauty.
	Boys and girls as they grow will learn the
ins and outs of this wicked world. If their
parents do not give them this knowledge,
somebody else will, and the manner in
which the information is given is in all
moral respects vastly more important than
the matter. The parent may instruct the
child in everything it should know, satisfy
its curiosity within proper limits, and thus
pre-occupy the ground that otherwise would
be sown by chance cultivators more with
tares of vice than with the wheat of know-
ledge.
	It is simply astonishing how soon young
children pick up slang words, vile words,
profane words, and attach to them mean-
ings. It is equally surprising how instinc-
tively they conceal all this knowledge from
their parents, and while the mother thinks
her little girl a model of innocence and
purity, her neighbor may know that such is
very far from being the case. Therefore it
is not possible for the mother to cultivate
too great an intimacy with her child. She
should have the juvenile heart spread out
before her as a mirror, reflecting every
thought, every feeling, every passion of the
child. Thus she will be able judiciously to
administer antidotes to vice and build up
safeguards to virtue.
	Girls are as a general rule brought up in
ignorance of very much which it most con-
cerns them to know. Many a young lady
dances on the verge of a precipice, not
knowing her danger, and many fall from
virtue because their mothers had not the
courage to warn them of the pitfalls in their
pathway, and the steps leading thitherward.
The love of purity, like the love of know-
ledge and the love of fame, grows by what
it feeds on, and dies if it have not suitable
nutriment. The girl and the boy who have
steadily held up before their eyes an ideal
of high and pure womanhood and manhood,
who are taught from early childhood that
their bodies and their souls are alike sacred
to purity, will hardly fail to realize in ma-
turity the highest wishes of their parents in
these respects. Heroic virtue is never the
result of ignorance in man or woman. We
who know the shoals along the entrance to
mature life should build lighthouses on
sunken reefs, plant buoys in dangerous
places, and build life-boats for the rescue of
the shipwrecked.
	In his prayer for his disciples, Christ said,
“I pray not that thou shouldst take them
out of the world, but that thou shouldst
keep them from the evil.” Purity is not
inconsistent with knowledge of evil, and as
soon as a child is old enough to wander from
the right way, he should be instructed in
the dangers that are most likely to befall
him, and the way in which they can be
avoided.
	When there is a perfect understanding be-
tween parents and children; when the
daughter feels that she can confide every
thought and desire of her heart to her
mother, and the son is in full sympathy and
counsel with his father, there is little dan-
ger that the happiness of the parents will
be wrecked by the profligacy of their chil-
dren. Many grown people seem to think
there is no harm done in evading questions
asked by children, or in giving such answers
as totally mislead and confuse them. This
is a woful mistake, and most disastrous con-

[Column 3]
sequences follow it. Truth never injures
anybody, and though it may be diluted, so
to speak, when given to children, any false-
hood mingled with it is deadly poison. The
ranks of fallen women in our great city are
largely recruited from the country. Rarely
does any young woman knowing her dan-
ger become identified with this unfortunate
class, and young men who have been fore-
warned by judicious parents of the alluring
temptations which seek them out on every
hand, are too wise to wander far from the
paths of virtue.—“N. Y. Tribune.”


MUSIC IN A FAMILY.

	Music in a family is a means of domestic
cheerfulness. A musical family, in spite of
cares, perplexities, or even trials, may be a
cheerful family. Cheerful in that sense of
the term which implies good spirits, and in
which needless depression of mind and
morbid melancholy are kept away. You
can have the sunshine of cheerfulness in
your house in the most rainy, cheerless or
wintry day that ever was if you can have
music. Music provokes good uature in
a family; and, in this world, where there
is so much evil nature manifested in
a thousand ways, and in the family some-
times, as well as elsewhere, anything
which will promote good-nature is to be
prized. Who can fret and scold when the
very air around is blended with soft har-
mony?

			     THE SEX.

	Miss Sarah Norris M. D., of Boston is gone
to practice medicine in Bombay.
	The latest musical attraction in Paris is a
quartette of Swedish girls, singing Scandi-
navian melodies.
	A New York mother wants the authori-
ties to prohibit boys under sixteen from
smoking, drinking, or chewing.
	The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial
Court decides that women, under the Con-
stitution, can be members of school commit-
tees.
	A Russion lady, Lydia Rodelrena, has
given $40,000 to endow a department for
medical instruction for women in St. Peters-
burg Academy of Medicine.
	One of the last official acts of ex-Gov.
Davis, of Texas, was the appointment of a
woman as the Commissioner of the State to
the Centennial celebration at Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Emi B. Swank of Indianapolis, has
recently made an address at the Annual
Meeting of the Home for the friendless, in
Richmond, Indiana, which is highly com-
plimented by the press.
	After twenty years' work the women of
Charleston, South Carolina, succeeded in
raising $28,000 for a monument to John C.
Calhoun, only to end their labors by voting
down a resolution to erect a monument, after
all. Now it is proposed to devote the money
to educational purposes.
	Some years ago, Fanny Fern attracted the
horrified attention of people of strictly con-
ventional ideas by writing a letter to Lester
Wallack, insisting upon the right of women
to attend places of amusement without the
escort of men. But now it has become not
at all unusual to meet ladies of the utmost
respectability at public places unattended
except by others of their own sex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						[For the Exponent.]
		STRONG-MINDED WOMEN.

	The election has come and gone, and how
often has been heard from women the re-
mark "Oh! no thank you, I did not vote, I
am not strong minded." Poor, silly things!
Did you not know that by such a speach you
called forth pity for yourselves and the male
members of your families, from every
thoughtful person? Acknowledge, if you will,
that you are indifferent to the interests of
the community in which you dwell or, that
you are too ignorant to understand the social
and political questions involved, but do not
say it is because you lack moral strength to
express those opinions in public. There is
no misery entailed on the other sex by mar-
riage so great as that of being united to a
weak minded woman. Fancy what a safe-
guard the counsels of a woman would
be to a man in the temptations that beset
him in his youth, what a comforter in the
hour of adversity, how unflinchingly she
could bear poverty by his side and help him
to meet, with indifference, the scorn that
the world heaps upon failure. Better! ten
thousand times better be strong minded, the
true companion of your husband and bro-
thers, the guide and promoter of your chil-
dren's welfare, than the puny, inane crea-
ture who has not the strength to think. I
do not advocate the claims, of a masculine
woman, to admiration. On the contrary, I
think she should be sweet, and womanly,
and not flaunt her opinions in every one's
face because she knows enough to form them;
no more than a man, though he be an athlete,
should attempt the role of a bully and prize
fighter, yet who sometimes might realize
that strength was a Godsend to him for the
defence of those he reverenced or loved.
So should we consider and guard the elec-
tive franchise, useing it conscientiously, as
a God given privilege, and when men are
placed in nomination, of rulers or dele-
gates who would rob us for our rights, our
united ballot should be against them.
But, methinks, I hear the gentlemen say,
"We will restore the right of dower." Sirs,
are you so ignorant of the doings of the
Utah Legislature that you do not know that
at the same session during which they took
away the right of dower, they gave us the
right to hold property exclusive of our hus-
bands' control? So that an industrious wo-
man, with a trade or business, though tied
to a thriftless man, need not be despoiled of
her earnings to supply the needs of his lazy
existence. And the heiress, who would
fain be loved for herself alone, need not fear
the advances of the fortune hunter, for her
possessions are still hers after marriage, if
she chooses to retain them; it is only
through her affections that she can be reduc-
ed to beggary. But here is where Legisla-
tures, Congress and Presidents have failed
to repeal the fiat given to woman by the
great Law Giver, in the day of her creation,
"Thy desire shall be to thy husband, and
he shall rule over thee;" and every loving
wife feels the force of it as strongly now as
she could the day it was promulgated and
she would not have it otherwise. But for
any upstart demagogue or unprincipled lib-
ertine to claim the right to legislate for, and
govern a woman's heart and conscience, sim-
ply because he is a man, is what no strong-
minded woman will concede. Should such
men (?) succeed, however, in disfranchising
us, we will continue to study the art of self-
government, and the principles of religion
and so instruct our children that it shall not
be said of Utah:

[Column 2]
			"Her pride was crushed,
Her sons were willing slaves, nor blushed
In their own land,—no more their own,—
To crouch beneath a stranger's throne.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
Where slaves, converted by the sword,
Their mean apostate worship pour'd,
And cursed the faith their sires adored."	
					LAURA M. MINER.
S. L. City March 8th, 1874.


GARDENING AS WOMAN'S WORK.

	This has long seemed to me an employ-
ment in which women would not only gain
health and strength, but in which the most
modest and retiring might find congenial
occupation, and the products of which are
never depreciated because raised by women.
A peck of peas has a certain market value
not depending upon the hands which raised
them. A woman who works at making
pants receives fifty cents a day, not on ac-
count of the amount or quality of her work,
but because she is a woman. A man en-
gaged on the same garments receives $2 a
day, not because of the amount or quality
of his work, but because he is a man. It is
doubtless true that, in very many cases, the
man does his work better than a woman;
but it is not less true that in a majority of
cases, the difference is sex. So of the school.
A male teacher receives $1,000 a year, not
because his moral influence is better, not
because his pupils learn more, but because
he is a man. A woman teaches a similar
school, and receives $400, not because of the
inferiority of her moral influence in the
school, not because the pupil learns less, but
because she is a woman. Now, happily, all
this is avoided in gardening. A man who
would sell a beet is not obliged to put on a
label "raised by a man, ten cents," and upon
another, "raised by a woman, four cents,"
but the article brings its market value. This
is a great advantage and one affording a
special gratification to women of spirit. Be-
sides gardening is an occupation that re-
quires little capital, and except in the fancy
departments, comparitively little training.
Near any of the cities a woman can earn
more upon a half acre of land, with four
months work than she can by sewing twelve
months, saying nothing of the unhealthiness
of sewing.—Dio Lewis.


FROM CACHE VALLEY.

		SMITHFIELD, March 4th, 1874.
Dear Exponent:—
	I have just returned from Bishop Wm.
Hyde's funeral; how comforting when we
are called upon to part with friends, to rea-
lize that, "What is our loss is their gain."
	I have known him since June, 1874. He
was born in Sept., 1818; embraced the gos-
pel April 7th, 1834, under the hands of Bro.
John Murdock; and has been a true and
faithful servant of the Lord Jesus Christ,
ever since. He may truely be said to have
worn his life out in the service of God. He
has traveled much to preach the gospel to
the unbelieving world; was one of the 500
who volunteered to lay down his life to save
his friends, and marched across the plains
and deserts to the seat of war in Mexico.
He has finished his work upon the earth, he
has kept the faith and now has gone to reap
his reward; a crown of righteousness, redemp-
tion from sin, andeternal lives in the king-
dom of our God. Well did the Poet say,
"The chamber where the good man meets
his fate, is privileged beyond the common
walk, 	*	*	*quite in the verge of hea-
ven."


﻿There was a very lage congregation out at
the funeral notwithstanding the cold inclem-
ent time. The speakers were Prest. B.
Young Jr., Bishops Wm. B. Preston, M. W.
Merrill and Elders E. M. Greene, Moses
Thatcher and J. Hatch: They dwelt mostly
upon the subject of the "passing away" of
those who had learned from the Prophet
Joseph, and have been faithful to the present.
Bro. Hyde was buried with military honors.
	Colds, coughs, and a kind of scarlet fever
are quite prevalent here, mostly among the
children: The snow is from eighteen inches
to 2 feet deep, and more is coming nearly
every day. The weather is very cold: The
Utah Northern is blockaded with snow from
four miles below Hampton's Station, so
there is no passing by rail into this valley.
								M.


HELP FOR WOMEN.

	We need more vocations in which educa-
ted women can work, says the Boston Globe,
without compromising either their respecta-
bility or their substinance. There is a grow-
ing demand that professional and other oc-
cupations, now monopolized by men, should
be open to the sex. There are considera-
tions of natural adaptations which, in the
long run, will determine this question in
particular employments. The moment that
educated women make their mark in any
honorable occupation, more is done to obvi-
ate the evils of relying on the chances of
marriage for support than any amount of dis-
cussion can accomplish. Education must be
adapted to the circumstances of the pupils,
and we trust the time is not far distant when
a false idea of respectability will not pre-
vent parents from affording their daughters
such instruction as will fit them for an hon-
est and honorable independence.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	Of the new trade dollars 1,400,000 have been
coined.
	Iowa grew more wheat in 1873 than any other
state.
	There are forty Protestant places of worship in
Rome.
	Boston has twenty-one Baptist churches, with
7,579 members.
	The Buffalo (N. Y.) Young Men's Christian As-
sociation is 38 years of age.
	Coaches or carriages were first used in England
in the year 1530. They were introduced from Ger-
many by the Earl of Arundel.
	In New York in winter, the price of a handsome
basket of flowers is from five to fifty dollars. Bou-
quets can be made at from three to twenty-five dol-
lars.
	A "fossil" egg, said to be larger than that of an
ostrich, has been purchased for the St. Petersburgh
museum, at a cost of seven hundred and fifty dol-
lars. It was found in one of the Russian provin-
ces.
	Extensive farming.—The Colusa Sun states that
Mr. H. E. Glenn, of that county will put in 40,000
acres of wheat this year. It is calculated the yield
will be 1,000,000 bushels, and worth, at least, $1,000
000.
	The "Publishers Circular" (England) states that
during the past year there were published in that
country, 3,463 new books, 1,286 new additions of
former works and 242 reprints of American publi-
cations; making a total of 4,991. According to the
classification, tales, works of fiction, etc. were the
most numerous, while works on law were the few-
est in number.


156 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
L. GEEENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p, m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, March 15. 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	It is said that New York buries six hundred
and twenty-seven of her paupers in one
trench...Seven persons were lately poisoned
through eating fresh pork in Cincinnati......
Strong resolutions have been passed by the
Maine Woman's Suffrage Convention in be-
half of its object......The Baroness Lionel de
Rothschild is said to be gaining some notori-
ety as an authoress......Maine promises to do
a good business in ship-building this season.
......Emily Faithful still lectures in England
on the subject of "Eight months in America"
......Boston has been astonished over a well-
dressed, able-bodied man who wears a pla-
card on his hat which bears the inscription.
"I want work!"......General Louis T. Wig-
fall died at Galveston, Texas, on the 18th ult
Henry Ward Beecher wants to know, if it is
wicked to laugh in meeting, "why Provi-
dence permits honest, well-meaning souls to
be tempted beyond what they are able to
bear"......A plan for the improvement of the
colored race is to be laid before the President
by "Sojourner Truth"......Militia men in
California protest against being disbanded...
Mrs. Fannie U. Roberts has been installed
over the Universalist Church in Kittery,
Maine......It is stated by Alabama papers
that land is selling very cheap all over the
State, some of the best cotton land for two
to four dollars per acre......Ellen M. Babb is
the third lady who has been appointed to the
position of Justice of the peace in the State
of Maine......Pupils in the High School at
Dover N. H. have regular examinations in
periodical literature, to ascertain how thor-
oughly the news-papers are studied......Rev.
Phebe A. Hannaford has written a historical
sketch of her parish in New Haven........It 
has been decided by the Supreme Court of
Indiana, that the law requiring a man guilty
of drunkeness to tell where he got his li-
quor, is unconstitutional......Abba G. Wool-
son lectures succesfully in the New Hamp-
shire lyceum on the "Yosemite Valley".....
A Titusville paper announces that there are
upwards of 1,000,000 gallons of crude oil at
that point, in the tanks, with no protection
against fire......Ninety-one females are en-
rolled at the Michigan University for the
current academic year......The village Cerro
de Pasco, which is situated on the slope of
the Andes, 14,000 feet above the level of the
sea, is said to contain the highest newspaper
office in the world......Sixty-five rail road
trains enter and leave Portland, Maine, daily
......The latest style for speaking of a fraud
committed by an officer of public trust, is to
say, "he was caught in the rain without an
umbrella"......This country is said to raise
annually 2,000,000 bushels of pea-nuts.....
Iowa has seventy-two counties and treasur-
ers of twenty-three of them have been found
guilty of embezzelment.....A bill has passed
in the New York Senate to consolidate the
City and County of New York..........Seven-
teen applications for divorce were made in a
Rhode Island court in one day. Pretty good
for a small place.......A Georgia farmer late-
ly discovered that his dog liked milk so well
that he had got into the habit of milking a
fine cow......Bull fights have been prohibited
in France......Gov. Allen, of Ohio, refuses
to accept free passes......A ladies' society
has been organized at Keokuk, to hunt up
husbands who stay at "The Lodge" after 11
P. M........Ground was broken, Feb. 18th, for
the foundation of the first Reformed Epis-
copal Church to be erected in the Uni-
ted States. It is, we believe, to be styled
the "Church of the Rock of Ages"......A
late fire, at Evanston destroyed fourteen build-
ings. Total loss estimated at $200,000.


NOTICE.

	THE ANNUAL Conference to be held in this
city on the 6th of April next, will meet and
adjourn to Thursday, May 7th, at 10 o'clock
a. m.						
					BRIGHAM YOUNG,
					GEORGE A. SMITH,
					DANIEL H. WELLS.


DOMESTIC HINTS.

	It is the mother who forms the character of
the child—it is Woman who gives tone to
society. Yet it is but a few years since this im-
portant truth was conceded; but now the world
knows and acknowledges it, and every one is
repeating it. There certainly can be no mistake
about this, for even before its birth, the natural
mind of the child has been stamped with the
emotions, desires and reflections which have
been cherished by its maternal parent. And
for months after becoming a distinct inhabitant
of earth, it is still dependent in a very great de-
gree, for existence upon the same source from
which it had hitherto been sustained. Then;
during all the days of childhood and youth, it
is mother's examples and influence which reg-
ulate, mold and impress, until mature years
have marked the character a settled reality.
	While, then, it is obviously, the sacred
duty of every mother, and of every woman
who has hopes of becoming a mother, to culti-
vate to the utmost extent of her capabilities,
ALL EXELLENCE within herself, in order that
she may be able to impart th same in abun-
dance to her offspring; under what obligations
is man placed concerning these things?
	Let it be considered that his dally proceed
ings, whether they may have much or little di-
rect influence on the dispositions of the chil-
dren, have a great deal to do with the feelings
and consequent course of the mother. And if
she has need to be so perfect in her ways, how
necessary it is that she should receive encour-
agement, sympathy and strength continually
from him. He should have thought and con-
sideration for her welfare and happiness even-
above his own; and should never allow him-
self to be so wrapt up in things which he may
think of greater importance, as to forget or neg-
lect to assure her by tender looks and expres-
sions, that he entertains a proper regard for her
as his wife and the mother of his children.
Nothing is so cheering and refreshing to the
tired, over-tasked mind and body of a half-sick
wife whose "work is never done," as a proof of
the real appreciation and sympathetic consid-
eration of him for whom, principally, she la-
bors. And why should he ever, even in one
single instance, withhold these simple rewards?
Even though he may be too poor to afford her
sufficient help in her household duties, and too
busy to offer her assistance himself, in little af-
fairs, at times when a helping hand is so much
needed—when present, he may still bestow the


blessing of a kindly smile and loving sentence.
And these without expense or loss of time.
	If he shows the respect due her in her impor-
tant position, his children will rarely think of
doing otherwise. But let him manifest, in their
presence, doubts of her efficiency to wisely con-
duct the management of her own, especial,do-
mestic concerns, and see how readily his sons
at least, will take advantage of his injudicious
example. If he would generously assist the
mother in her arduous labors of training the
little ones, he might as well interfere with the
kitchen fire and seek to enliven it by throwing
on icicles, as to utter words of disparagement
in relation to her manner of directing or cor-
recting her children in their hearing. Such a
course being taken, while the children were
present, has not only wounded the tender sen-
sibilities of many a mother, but also lessened
the good influence she might have over them.


TO CORRESPONDENTS.

	Writing for the press, like many other occu-
pations, to be performed aright, requires the ob-
servance of certain rules or principles. Some
of these principles are so simple that any one,
who is able to write, can learn them in a few
minutes; yet perhaps the non-observance of
these rules may give more trouble than the neg-
lect of others requiring deeper and longer study.
To mention a few ideas connected with the sub-
ject, was our purpose in commencing this arti-
cle. Though the contributions of our friends
may not always be suited to, or find place in
the columns of the EXPONENT, we trust that
not even the humblest contributor will feel dis-
couraged, or take offense. But on the contrary,
we will be glad to see all—with the improve-
ment that study and experience brings—con-
tinue to be co-workers with us in seeking to
show forth and promote the best interests of
women. To this end, we invite correspondents
and friends throughout the Territory to com-
municate their views and feelings. In doing
so, the real name of the writer should always
be given, not that it is necessary for publication,
but as a guarantee of good faith. If the wri-
ter desires to have the initials or an assumed
name published instead of the real name, it
should be so stated
	The date should not be forgotten, especially
in letters containing news, and business items.
	When sending names of subscribers, be care-
ful to also give the name of the Town and Coun-
ty in which each one resides. If the subscriber
is a resident of this city, the name of the Ward
to which the paper is to be sent should be sta-
ted.
	If a subscriber wants his or her paper changed,
the name of its former destination as well as
the place to which it is to be sent should be sta-
ted clearly. A neglect of the three preceeding
rules often occasions trouble if not loss.
	In writing do not mix business communica-
tions with those intended for publication, it is
better to write them on different sheets of pa-
per.
Communications for publication should be writ-
ten on one side of the paper only; especially
those which are lengthy.
	Be sure that words, particularly proper names,
are spelled correctly. If convenient and neces-
sary consult a dictionary when writing.
	And last but not least, though it may not be
necessary that the penmanship of a well written
article be beautiful, it is requisite that it be
plain, the plainer and neater the better. Good
black ink and clear white paper is the best to
use. Many are not careful to make their let-
ters sufficiently distinct; their n's and u's are
alike; such letters as a, o, d, etc., not being con-


nected at the top are often very indistinct, their
r's and v's are similar in form, as also their i's
and e's. These are but a few instances to which
attention should be given, particularly in writ-
ing proper names and foreign words, as the man-
uscript may be the only guide to the spelling.
Mistakes often occur through hurry, as the
poorest writer can, with care, avoid such errors.
And though these may seem small matters, they
may be more easily attended to by authors than
by those who correct for the press; and a little
care might probably save many mistakes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IRREGULARITIES IN the Cache Co. mail have
caused considerable discussion, in the papers,
lately. We hope better mail facilities in that
section will be the result.
	THE PROPOSITION to number the buildings
in this city is being agitated. The matter is
one of public importance, and, if properly car-
ried out, will doubtless be of great benefit.


[Column 1]
﻿		WOMAN'S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONET:—
	For a season your paper has been lost to
me, and, indeed, I have felt lost without it.
But I have just been perusing one of your
issues, and it makes me feel thankful for the
truth which it so ably maintains. I thank
my Heavenly Father for the light which He
has revealed through His Prophet Joseph
Smith, and for the knowledge which He is
continually offering to us, through His Pro-
phets and Apostles who are living among us.
Why should we not rejoice, living in this
day over which holy Prophets rejoiced see-
ing it afar off? Sometimes I think we, as a
people do not realize and appreciate the
blessings which are, and those which might
be ours. Else why do we not deny ourselves,
"and lay aside every weight and sin which
doth so easily beset us, and run race with pa-
tience which is set before us?"
	I can remember the state in which we,
with the rest of the world, were,before the ef-
fulgence of Truth came forth through Joseph
Smith, the Prophet of God. Darkness had
pervaded the earth for more than a thou-
sand years. I shudder when I reflect upon
the benighted and wicked world as it was.
We read of many instances in "the dark
ages," where all who dared to hold on to
Christianity, men, women and children were
cruelly tortured, and often put to death.
Women were treated as beasts of burden;
and at one time in England, they were led
with ropes around their necks to be sold as
chattle in the markets. Eventually, the
Holy Bible came to be taught to the people
in some parts of the earth, and they became
more enlightened.
	But although the Bible came in purity,
its meaning was misinterpreted, and the
teachings of its sacred, precious truths per-
verted. Some thought the Scriptures meant
one thing and some another. Men of learn-
ing puzzled their brains to make comments,
just according as their ambition led them to
form opinions. There was no unity of faith.
The Christian world was divided into many
different sects, regardless of the words of
Jesus, "Except ye are one, ye are not mine."
	Joseph Smith received the Everlasting
Gospel from the Heavens; and it is by this
Gospel, and through its power, that the
world must be redeemed from the fallen
and benighted state in which it now grovels.
	I feel to praise and worship my God, that
he has given me a heart to receive the
Truth. I thank Him for revealing all the
[Coulmn 2]
glorious principles which lead to eternal
life and salvation; and especially for the one
which is so obnoxious to the world. For
without this—plurality of wives—the salva-
tion of the world could not be brought about.
	I have written this much, having a desire
to add my mite in bearing testimony to the
Truth and opposing evil.		EXCELLETTE.
		BEAVER CITY, Feb. 27th, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Although you hear very little from the Re-
lief Society in this place, we are not idle.
We hold meetings regularly once a week
and sewing circles once in two weeks; both
are well attended considering the severity
of the weather and the bad condition of our
streets. There has recently been organized
a Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
here, of which Mrs. Harriet Fotheringham
is President, and Miss Ida Hunt, Secretary.
	All the sisters feel interested in the pro-
gress of the Temple at St. George and have
donated liberally to that as well as to other
public institutions. The readers of the Ex-
ponent are greatly pleased with its ad-
vancement, and wait anxiously for each num-
ber, thus proving it to be a welcome visitor;
we trust that the sisters will all realize its
worth and aid in sustaining it. There is
considerable sickness here, principally among
children, and several deaths have lately oc-
curred.
		MARY E. ASHWORTH, Secretary.
			SELINA, February 19th, 1874.
	The Relief Society of Selina held its first
annual meeting on the 25th of December,
1873, President Mrs. Margaret Rasmussen
presiding. The Bishop and Counselors were
present, and kindly assisted the President
and Secretary in filling out a pleasant pro-
gramme. A general good spirit prevailed
during the day, and in the evening a dance
was given in, which all seemed to enjoy
themselves. The members of the Society,
almost without exception, are anxious to do
all the good they can, and are generally uni-
ted.
		CELINDA A. MARTIN, Secretary.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	In the year of sixty-one, as your readers
will remember, many of the families of
Northern Utah, were called to this Southern
Mission. And, not having duly considered
the divine authority, which our Father had
bestowed upon his Prophets, our leaders,
the hearts of some did fail; and they felt
that they must return to that, almost heaven,
from which they had—it seemed to them—
been exiled. Consequently, when Presi-
dent Young soon after came to visit us, his
heart was pained by the failure apparent in
some; and in dispensing encouragement and
gladness to the assemblies he addressed,
these words were repeatedly spoken: "Breth-
ren and Sisters, be patient, be faithful. Live
unto God and this sterile country shall, to
your satisfaction, become a most choice abid-
ing place, and many shall desire to flock
unto it." How truly have the Saints in
Washington found those words verified!
And shall the Latter-day Saints be doubtful,
and heed not the voice of God when He
speaks to them through the mouth of His
Prophet! Sisters, shall we not now, espe-
cially remember that time when the Ser-
vants of God were assembled waiting for a
manifestation of His power, a sound, even
as of a mighty rushing wind came and filled
the place where they sat. Yet waiting,
there came to them a still small voice, and
the Lord was there:—How sweetly expres-
[Column 3]
sive! And shall we not learn to listen, and
enjoy daily precious communion from on
high?				A. S. ATKINS.
	Washington, Feb. 24th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	There was a special meeting of the sisters
in Heber City, called Feb. 28th, for the pur-
pose of getting means to finish our hall,
and also to fence in the lot upon which the
hall stands. When done, this work will be
a credit to the Society. The day was cold
and stormy, but despite that, the sisters
were warm hearted and full of the good
spirit, and of thanks to the Almighty for
His blessings to them, which crown their
feeble efforts in building up and beautifying
a place wherein they can meet and enjoy
the Spirit of God, without fear of intruding
upon, or hindering others. Respectfully,
				MELISSA REYNOLDS.


HUMOROUS.
	"LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS"—Chicago mar-
riages.
	QUERY—-DOES a dumb man always keep
his word?
	Q.—WHAT WAS Joan of Arc made of?
	A.—She was Maid of Orleans.
	WHAT IS the most becoming dress for the
bare earth? The skirts of a wood.
	A VERMONT CONTEMPORARY suggestively
remarks:—Anonymous communications are
worth four cents a pound at this office.
	A DOG PUT out of court by order of the 
bench is said to have “cast a look at the  
judge for the purpose of being able to iden-
tify him on some future occasion.”
	A MAN IN North Carolina, has been found
guilty of disturbing a religious meeting by
singing out of time, as he always came out
two and one-half bars behind. He is indig-
nant and appeals.
	A LITTLE BOY having broken his rocking
horse the day it was bought, his mother be-
gan to rebuke him and box his ears. He si-
lenced her by inquiring, "What is the use 
of a hoss till he's broke?"
	A SAMPLE of the tyranny of man was
shown at a woman's rights meeting in Ti-
tusville, where a gentleman entered and
told his wife, one of the officers of the meet-
ing, to come home quick "as the baby had
the colic." She went.
	IF I AM not at home from the party to-
night at 10 o'clock, said a husband to his
wife, do not wait for me. That I won’t,she
replied significantly, I'll come for you! To
prevent difficulty the gentleman managed
to be at home precisely at 10 o’clock.
	Titles are a plan got up bi humans tew
assist nature in promulgating aristokrasy.
	Titles aint ov enny more real use or nes-
essity than dog collars are.
	I have seen dog collars that cost 3 dollars
on dogs that want worth, in enny market,
over 88 1-2 cents.
	This a grate waste ov collar, and a grate
damage tew the dog.—JOSH BILLINGS
	PIRON, THE French author, was on one
occasion obliged to appear before a Parisian
magistrate who haughtily interrogated him
concerning his business or profession:—
	"I am a poet sir," said Piron.
	"O! O! a poet, are you? "I have a bro-
ther who is a poet."
	"Then we are even," said Piron, "for I
have a brother who is a fool."


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A CHILD’S QUESTIONS.

	Was he ever a baby, mother,
	    That reeking and tattered man,
	With dead eyes out of his purple face,
	    Looking only as dead eyes can?

	Did a mother's kiss ever fall on
	    That frightful and grimacing mouth?
	Did it use to prattle and say sweet things,
	    Like a brook in a summer's drouth?

	Did he lift up white hands, praying
	    The Lord his soul to keep,
	Who now goes muttering dreadful words
	    As he rolls in the ditch to sleep?


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Happy Children.—As house-plants cannot flour-
ish without sunshine, so children cannot thrive and
be happy without love. How radiant are their
bright faces, as they respond to tones and words of
affection from the lips of their parents! Little
they know of the deep solicitude, of the constant
care exercised toward them; but they do fully un-
derstand and appreciate protestations of love and
tenderness. Why should we be chary of these,
when they cost only speaking? “I know,” said a
lady not long ago, “that my mother loved me ten-
derly, but during all my childhood I doubted it. If
I were really dear to her, I queried, why did she
never tell me so? Why did she never caress me,
and assure me of her love? She thought her ac-
tions spoke loudly enough without words. I could
not read her actions then as I can now, and how I
longed to hear her call me loving names, and to
have her wrap me in the sweet embrace of her
strong mother love.” Many a little heart aches
just as this lady’s did, and can be made happier by
the spontaneous utterances of maternal affection
than by beads or dolls, fine clothes or costly toys.
Children who grow up in this constant atmosphere
of love are rarely mischievous—never vicious. The
mightiest of all agencies to lead the young in paths
of virtue is in the hands of parents, and to com-
mand this agency they need to give expression to
the natural overflow of their hearts. Children to
be happy, need encouragement and praise. It is
not enough that they escape censure. Negatives
are always cold and blank. Our little ones want
warm, positive approval when they have done right;
thus they will be made to feel that the paths of
wisdom are paths of pleasantness and peace.
	Asthma Remedy.—1 1/2 ounces soda of potas, 1 1/2
ounces pulverized black licorice, 1 pint soda water.
Dose, one tablespoonfull three times a day, or less if
not required. Shake thoroughly before taking.
A sure remedy if taken as directed.
	Golden Salve Recipes—Two quarts raw linseed
oil, three pounds good fresh resin, three pounds
beeswax. Melt thoroughly together and turn into
tin boxes. This is the best salve known for burns,
scalds, flesh wounds, old sores, piles, etc. To
make small quantities the same proportion as above
is required.
	Remedy for Bee Stings, &c.—The tincture of
iodine is almost a sovereign remedy for the sting of
bees, wasps, hornets, the bites of spiders, any ex-
ternal poisoning as the crushing of caterpillars, hop
and corn worms, on the flesh. Apply the tincture
as soon as possible in any way convenient. It may
be had at almost any drug store or of any prac-
tising physician.
	Milk for Diarrhea.—The Milk Journal states on
the authority of Dr. Benjamin Clarke that in the
East Indies warm milk is used to a great extent as
a specific for diarrhea. A pint every four hours
will check the most violent diarrhea, stomach-ache,
incipient cholera and dysentery. The milk should
never be boiled, but only heated sufficiently to be
agreeably warm, not too hot to drink.
	Medicinal Use of Nettles.—Dr. Nicholl says that
the greatest preventive of yellow fever in Bermuda
is dried nettle, powdered and used as a condiment
in all cooking. The Doctor resides on the Isle of


Jersey, and he uses it successfully among his pa-
tients. He preserves it like herb teas; and keeps
it in a dry place. Dr. Thornton uses it as a styp-
tic. He dips lint into nettle juice and inserts it in-
to a bleeding nose, with quick effect. He also pre-
scribes it for goiter, for which it is a specific remedy.
In this case he grinds fifteen of the seeds, and ad-
ministers once a day. The juice of the nettle has
a singular effect on steel, which becomes flexible
by immersion in it.


CODE OF DRESS FOR LADIES.

	An experienced writer gives this code of
dress.
	1.—The first instinct about a new fash-
ion is the true one. Don’t wait till your
eye has lost its accuracy or your judgment
its edge. Subject the thing at once to the
general rule, and bow to the decision.
	2. What suits one person does not suit
another. Know thyself.
	3. Dress should supplement good points
and correct bad ones. Thick and thin, long
and short, are not all to be subjected to one
Procrustean style.
	4. Colors should be harmonious, should be
massed, should be becoming. Many little
points or blotches of color sprinkled over a
costume produce a disagreeably pied and
speckled effect, as of a monstrous robin's
egg or a plum pudding. One tint should
prevail, relieved by a contrasting tint. No
amount of fashionable prestige can make an
unbecoming color becoming. "Nile green"
will turn some people into oranges, though
twenty empresses ordain its adoption.
	5. Lines should be continuous, graceful
and feminine. It is better to look like a
woman (if you happen to be one) than like
any thing else—even a fashion plate!
	6. Ornament must be subordinate. Na-
ture, with all her profusion, never forgets
this fundamental law.
	7. Above all things be neat. Dainty pre-
cision and freshness is as essential to a
woman as a flower.
	8. Individuality is the rarest and cheap-
est thing in the world.
	9. And lastly, "Stylish" is of all the words
in the English language the most deadly.
It has slain its thousands.


﻿CAN WE TRUST WOMEN DOCTORS?

	It is rather late in the day to raise this
question, as women are quietly but success-
fully giving proof of their ability in every
department of medical science.
	Every fact is an argument, and the world
yet needs "line upon line" to free it from an
underlying contempt for the ability and in-
tellect of Woman.
	The Nantucket "Mirror" gives the follow-
ing fact:
	The little girl, Sarah Barrally, who had
the great sack or cluster of tumors removed
from her neck on the 7th of September last,
returned home last Tuesday. This remark-
able operation, which we noticed in our col-
umns at the time, was performed at the
New England Hospital for Women and Chil-
dren, in Boston, by a lady surgeon, Miss
Dimmock. No less than seventy-one
tumors, varying in size from the dimensions
of a pullet's egg down to those of a pea,
were found within the sack, and were suc-
cessfully removed. The little girl is now,
to all appearances, entirely well. The case
was an extraordinary one, and attracted the
attention of several medical men who visit-
ed the island last summer, as well as of all
our own people.—Ex.


FLOWERS.

	FAITH IN our own ability is half of every
battle.
	IT COSTS more to avenge wrongs than to
bear them.
	SOME MEN are worth nothing, and others
are worth less.
	IT IS the great art and philosophy of life,
to make the best of the present.
	EXPERIENCE WITHOUT learning does
more good than learning without experience.
	A LITTLE hole in a ship sinks it; so a
little sin sometimes produces a man’s ruin.
	THE NAME of the architect who builds
castles in the air is To-morrow, and Hope
lays the foundation.
	HE WHO thinks he knows everything is
often deceived. He who weeps for every-
body soon loses his eyesight.
	WE ARE always complaining that our
days are few, and acting as though there
would be no end to them.
	Spare moments are like the gold dust of
time. Of all portions of life, spare moments
are the most fruitful of good or evil.
	A WISE man will desire no more than
what he can get justly, use soberly, distrib-
ute cheerfully, and live upon contentedly.
	SUCCESS RIDES on every hour; grapple it
and you may win, but without a grapple, it
will never go with you. Work is the wea-
pon of honor, and he who lacks the weapon
will never triumph.
	LIFE IS divided into three terms: that
which was, which is, and which will be.
Let us learn from the past to profit by the
present, and from the present to live better
for the future.
	MANY OF the brightest virtues are like
stars—there must be night or they cannot
shine. Without suffering there could be
no fortitude, no patience, no compassion, no
sympathy.
	IF A man could make a single rose we
should give him an empire, yet roses and
flowers no less beautiful are scattered in pro-
fusion over the world, and no one regards
them.—Luther.
	GOODNESS OF heart is a ray of divinity
that dignifies humanity, attracts admiration,
and assimilates those who possess it to their
Creator: but like pure gold it is liable to be 
counterfeited.
	THAT PERSON may be guilty of imperti-
nence who considers not the circumstances
of time, or engrosses the conversation, or
makes himself the subject of his discourse,
or pays no regard to the company he is in.
	WHEN A Hindoo priest is about to baptize
an infant, he utters the following beautiful
sentiment: “Little babe thou enteredst the
world weeping, while all around thee smil-
ed; contrive so to live that you may depart
in smiles, while all around thee weep.”
	IT IS easier to tell when others are flatter-
ed than when we ourselves are; and many
a woman will lend a willing ear, and firm
belief to the soft nothings of the very per-
son whom she believes to be an arrant flat-
terer when other women are in the case.
	WHATEVER WE undertake demands the
best powers of our minds to discover its
whole bearing and intents, and the most
strict and vigilant observance of every spe-
cific duty which it involves. Nothing great,
or noble, or worthy is ever accomplished
without enthusiasm, self-sacrifice, and pa-
tient labor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿BOOKS.

	How many books there are of various
kinds, from which we may gain useful
knowledge and information, upon any sub-
ject which we may choose.
	Always, my young friends, read those
books from which the most knowledge may
be derived, and those which will prove
beneficial to you. Do not indulge in read-
ing the light literature of the day, or what
is more properly termed, “ten cent novels.”
There is nothing in them worth knowing
that you could not learn from better books,
without the trouble of gleaning from so much
nonsense. Then why seek after such tri-
fling, unimportant things? Rather choose
to read those books that will teach you how
to behave, how to talk and when, and, above
all, how to respect old age.
	Indulging too frequently in reading light
literature, is apt to impair the memory to a
greater or less extent.
	Would you know whether the tendency
of a book is good or evil, examine in what
state of mind you lay it down. Has it in-
duced you to suspect that what you have
been accustomed to think unlawful, may be
innocent; and that may be harmless, which
you have hitherto been taught to think dan-
gerous? If it has done this, its purport is
evil—avoid all books of a like nature in fu-
ture. I believe that many an unsuspecting,
innocent young person has been led to ruin
by reading such works. But where do you
suppose the learned men of to-day acquired
their information concerning various things,
if not by studying good books? They have,
as far as we know, had to battle pretty hard
to gain that knowledge which they now
have. And from this we may be taught
that perseverance, patience, and hard and
wise study alone, is what makes the great
man or woman.
	Then let me impress upon your minds,
my young friends, the necessity of laying
aside novels, etc., and studying books that
will, eventually be of greater benefit to you.
For of course, we are all desirous of gaining
the true respect and confidence of our intel-
ligent friends, and to cultivate real wisdom
and goodness is the only way by which we
may obtain these blessings.		HETTIE.


STORY OF A SENSITIVE BOY.

	A New York despatch states that the ver-
dict of the jury, on Wednesday, to investi-
gate the circumstances attending the death
of a school boy named David White, who
put an end to his own life, at No. 146 Riv-
ingston street, is certainly very significant.
The boy, it would appear, was of an ardent,
ambitious temperament, highly sensitive,
and up to a certain critical point in his
school-boy life studious to the extent of dis-
tancing all class competitors of his own age.
Unfortunately, as the result showed, these
qualities attracted the attention of his
teachers and his parents and he was pro-
moted to a higher class, with the members
of which it was morally impossible for him
to cope. The natural result followed. The
studious boy, who had been facile princeps,
lost his ambition with the full knowledge
that he could not gratify it, and gradually
found his way to the end of his class. He
became so negligent that his teacher, in the
belief that he had degenerated through
simple carelessness, wrote up his name in
great letters on a blackboard, so that all
comers should read it. The rest is shortly
told. The boy told his schoolmates that he
would commit suicide, and he kept his
word, though they thought it was school-


boy bravado. He deliberately hung himself
with a book strap, and the verdict of the
coroner's jury was simply “suicide by hang-
ing.”
	The above touching incident should be
widely circulated; for it touches a vital
question. One can hardly visit a school,
especially those famed for “good discipline,”
without being pained by the injudicious
punishment of the pupils. Usually the ob-
ject would seem to be not so much the good
of the pupil as the gratification of the
teacher.
	Having seen much of boys, both in school
and out, and as the mother of sons, I should
be glad were there some punishments de-
vised which would result in good to the
pupil, as is so seldom the case now. Un-
fortunately almost all the so-called disci-
plinarians are persons of too quick tempers
to be able to stop to judge of individual
merits as would a calmer temperament.
Two or three things concerning punishment
in school are suggested:
	1. Punishment should never be adminis-
tered in anger.
	2. Never in presence of others. It in-
jures the good and hardens the bad, always,
to be corrected in public.
	3. Ridicule should never be used by a
teacher toward a pupil. It simply breeds
anger and stubbornness.
	4. No brutal punishment which may af-
fect the health should ever be used—as
standing or sitting in dark or cold places,
enforced cold bathing, etc.
	The “Index” says wisely:
	“What shall be done then with the terma-
gants with whom we have to deal? That
is for the wise to ponder and decide. Per-
haps we shall be forced to deal with the
young, as God deals with us, leaving them
free to choose evil or good, never fearing
that ‘as they sow, so shall they also reap.’”
—“Woman’s Journal.”


A FEW QUESTIONS.

	Is there anything gained by a hashing and
re-hashing of family matters before children
or strangers.
	Are children taught to love and obey a pa-
rent by hearing his or her failings discussed,
or do strangers improve matters by inter-
fering? Certainly it spoils a visit when
quarreling, bickering, twitting and flinging
up of each other’s faults, take the place, be-
tween husband and wife, of pleasant hospi-
tality and general conversation.
	As children grow up they learn the fail-
ings of their parents fast enough, without
being told of them when too young to un-
derstand that no one is perfect. Who thinks
more of a man because he taunts his wife
before strangers; that she is a “perfect gad-
about, taking no interest in home;” or that
she “has no government, and is ruining the
children by indulgence,” or that “his young
ones are fools and their mother is willing
to let them grow up so rather than drive
them to their books with a birch rod, which
they need three times a day.” Are a wo-
man’s charms enhanced when she asserts be-
fore a totally uninterested party, that her
husband “is a perfect tyrant and treats his
wife and children as if they were brutes?”
or “that he neglects his family and takes
his pleasure abroad.” These are very deli-
cate subjects which ought never to be men-
tioned before children or outsiders, if peo-
ple would have home as pleasant as possible
to all who come within its influence.


FROM DIXIE.

		ST. GEORGE, Feb. 25th, 1874.
	WOMAN’S EXPONENT, truly valuable and
ever welcome, comes to us in the “Sunny
South,” full of interest and good counsel.
I derive much pleasure and satisfaction
from the perusal of its columns; and in the
thought that I am associated with those
who are endeavoring to teach the principles
of truth, and bring about a reign of righ-
teousness upon the earth. The people of
Southern Utah appreciate, and are enjoying
very much the society and teachings of our
worthy President. We also feel highly fa-
vored in having the society of our much
esteemed Sister B. W. Smith, who meets
with us frequently in the Relief Society,
and imparts much valuable instruction.
	The Society is increasing in numbers, and
a lively spirit of interest is manifested.
					MINERVA SNOW.


﻿DARE TO BE POLITE.
	Young lady, please read the following
choice bit, which we have selected for your
benefit, and then pass it to your brother; or
to the young gentleman who is fond of your
society:—
	"Why there's grandma Moore,"exclaimed
Eugene, "excuse me young ladies, but I
must go to the rescue."
	With a bow at parting, he hastened for-
ward, joined the old lady, adjusted her wa-
terproof, which was flying in the strong east
wind, took her umbrella from her tired
hand, and then drew that hand gently
through his arm,and together they trudged
on towards her home.
	"I thought so much more of Eugene"
said the lively girl who related this inci-
dent, "for this kind act. We were all go-
ing home from church together, and the
wind whistled and blew, and it was as much
as we young people could do, to hold um-
brellas and secure our waterproofs.
	There was little Mrs. Moore just in front
old and feeble, and it did seem as if the
storm made a plaything of her, and whirled
her about at will, until Sir Knight became
her champion. I don't believe every young
gentleman would have been so polite and
kind to an old lady."
	We believe that many young gentlemen
possess goodness of heart, sufficient to make
them realize their duty in all such cases,
or similar ones, but who often lack the
moral courage to obey the kind impulses of
their hearts. They are afraid of being
laughed at or of appearing "odd" if they
show attention to a poor old woman. Help
them, girls, to be more truly gallant than
they can be, while they pay respect to none
but the young, the gay and the fashionable.
Let them know you are aware, that if you
live, you will all be old and perhaps infirm
some day. And that you can better trust
your future with young men who show es-
pecial and marked deference to the aged,
than to those who would treat them with
the slightest disrespect.


A LATE WASHINGTON story is that Mrs.
Speaker Blaine had a difficulty with Mrs.
Senator Sprague about a cook. Meeting at
a dinner table with only the Hon. Zach
Chandler between them, Mrs. Sprague
leaning forward said, "I am sorry Mrs.
Blaine, that we have anything disagreea-
ble between us." The Hon. Zach was con-
siderably embarrassed, never having heard
the interesting story of the cook.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			Millard County.
	,,	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	,,	Belinda M. Pratt,	,,
Miss Mary Callister,		,,
			Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
			Iron County. 
	,,	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith,		,,
Mrs. Ellen Bunt, Cedar City.
	,,	Mary Ann Lunt, Cedar City.
			Kane County.
Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
			Washington County.
	,,	Caroline Jackson, St. George. 
	,,	Elizabeth Canfield, Hamlin's Fort.


﻿			AGENTS.
			Salt Lake City.			
Mrs. Zina D. Young		Mrs. Elvira Barney,		
	,,	Margt. P. Young,			,,	Amanda Kimball
	,, 	Lily Staines, 				,,	Elizabeth Davis,
	,,	Sarah Smith,				,,	Hampton, 16th
	,,	Mary J. Thomson,					Ward,
	,,	Margaret Steel,			,,	Sarah E. Smith,
					Miss Sarah E. Russell.
						Weber County,
Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
	,,	Caroline Lunn, Huntsville,
Miss Maggie McBride, Eden,
					Oneida County, Idaho.
Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	,,	Mary Rich, Paris.
						Rich County
	,,	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	,,	Emily Woodruff, Randolph
						Cache County.
	,,	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	,,	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	,,	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum.
	,,	Maria Parkinson, Wellsville.
						Box Elder County.
	,,	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
						Davis County. 
	,,	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	,,	Aurelia Rogers,	"
	,,	Margaret Randell,Centreville,
	,,	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	,,	Susan Grant,		,,
	,,	Sylvia Clark,		,,
						Salt Lake County. 
	,,	— Higgins, West Jordan,
	,,	Barbara Moses, Big Cottonwood.
						Tooele County.
Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
Mrs. E. Clegg,			,,
Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
						Utah County.	
	,,	—— Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	,,	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	,,	——Harrison,		,,
	,,	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
	,,	Rebecca Standering, Lehi. 
						Juab County.
	,,	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	,,	Ann Pitchforth,
	,,	Martha J. Coray, Mona,
	,,	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
						Sanpete County.
	,,	M. A. P. Hyde, Spring City.
	,,	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	,,	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
Mrs. Mary Thorpe,		,,


TIRED OF FASHION.

	I write in seeming bitterness, but I am
neither spiteful nor an old maid, but a plain-
faced, common-sense woman, who while she
confesses her own weakness of following
the fashions, and even absurd ones, most
heartily deplores what you and I, and every
right-thinking woman regards as a most per-
nicious evil. When we consider the time
spent in shopping, in looking for nondescript
colors. for "trimmings to match," for "loves
of bonnets," for all the little bundles of fash-
ionable folly daintily tied by handsome
clerks, and add that to the time taken for
"looking up" the most fashionable modiste
to have them adjusted to our forms, with all
their ruffling, pinking, quilling, and "fol-de-
rols," and then remember that this is done,
sometimes daily for weeks and months, it is
perfectly apalling! O, such precious mo-
ments frittered away! Running up, in one
short year to golden hours, weeks and
months! The English maiden, who de-
pends on the cultivation of mind and quali-
ties of heart for entertaining, allows herself
just fifteen minutes for the adjustment of
her toilet, while her American cousin spends
hours and hours, curling, frizzing, crimping
and coloring her hair, rouging her cheeks,
and penciling her brows, and after the
laborious process is completed, she only suc-
ceeds in disguising her natural loveliness,
and destroying her precious health.—"Wes-
ter's Recorder.


SAYINGS AND DOINGS.

	Iceland has altogether the start of Amer-
ica. We propose to celebrate our nation's
centennial in 1876; but meanwhile, from the
land of snow and ice, volcanoes and geysers,
comes the intelligence that the Icelanders
propose to celebrate their millennial in 1874.
In 874 Ingolf, a Norwegian chief, planted a
small colony on that island, which had been
discovered a few years before. In about
half a century many thousands of hardy
settlers had established themselves on this
cold and barren isle. At one time the popu-
lation numbered no less than 100,000; but
the inhabitants have suffered greatly from
famines, epidemics, and volcanic casuali-
ties, and the number is now reduced to 
about 60,000. Iceland contains an area of
40,000 square miles, of which the glaciers
cover a surface  upward of 4,000 square
miles and there are thirty known volca-
noes, of which eight have been active with-
in a century. There are also numerous ther-
mal springs, the principal of which is the
Great Geyser, in which the water, at a
depth of seventy-two feet, is thirty degrees
above the boiling point. Water and stones
are thrown at intervals from this geyser to
a height of 100 feet. No grain of any kind
can be raised in Iceland, but vegetables can
be cultivated, and fish and birds are abun-
dant. Forests formerly abounded, but now
the island is almost destitute of trees, and
the want of fuel is severely felt. The island-
ers are of the Scandinavian race, and are by
no means lacking intellectual capacity. Al-
though there are but few educational insti-
tutions, domestic education is universal,
and the people are intelligent. Many of the
most valuable works of English literature
have been translated into the native tongue,
and are read and appreciated by the com-
mon people. All the inhabitants believe the
doctrines of the Reformation in their primi-
tive simplicity, and the majority of them
are Lutherans in profession. In short, the
Icelanders are as prosperous as could be ex-
pected of any people living in such a bar-
ren country, and deserve a national festival.


A SMART WOMAN.

	Two years ago Miss Dollie Runkle, of Des
Moines, Iowa, commenced as a clerk in the
extensive dry goods establishment of Knight
Brothers, without any previous experience.
A few days since, Mr. Knight being unwell
and unable to make purchases that the house
required, the duty devolved upon this young
lady, who bought from samples seven thou-
sand dollars worth of goods, and, to use Mr.
K.'s own language, "did it as well as any
merchant in town could have done it.".
Success honestly attained in any occupation
is worthy of commendation, and the suc-
cess that in two years' time enables an inex-
perienced girl to perform the duty of an ex-
perienced merchant is as notable as it is
worthy.


﻿The human mind is searching for truth
as it never sought before, and when truth is
found no earthly power can destroy its force,
or shake the allegiance of those who love it
for its own sake. Theology, which is of
man, may bend or break: in its efforts to em-
barrass or hedge in the irresistable advance
of scientific investigation but religion,
which is of God, has nothing to fear from
the progress of truth.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.

			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
    Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal[-]
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.


MARY H. BARKER M. D.,

Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours––10 a. m. to 3 p. m.


MRS. CARPENTER,

			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.


			     H. DINWOODEY

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
				storey Brick Store on

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

			Where he is prepared to do a

  WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.


H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.


			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


﻿		Woman's Exponent.
Vol. 2.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, April 1, 1874.		No. 21.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THERE ARE many criminals who are both
educated and intelligent; yet it is estimated
that ten to one of the crimes committed
throughout the country, are done by the
illiterate and ignorant.
	THE KANSAS Legislature has passed the
joint resolution to have the question of
woman suffrage decided by a vote of the
people. Will the men alone conclude the
decision of the question after all, or will the
women be considered as a portion of the
people?


THIS YEAR'S EMIGRATION.

	As many of our readers may be interested
in the forthcoming emigration, we insert
the following items, communicated to the
S. L. Herald by Mr. W. C. Staines, Church
emigration agent:
	The fare from New York to Ogden will be
as follows: For passengers 12 years old and
upwards, $51.00 with 100 lbs. luggage free;
children 5 to 12 years, $25.50 and 50 lbs. lug-
gage free; under 5 years, without luggage,
free. Extra luggage must be paid for at the
rate of $8 per 100 lbs. Fare from Omaha
$35.00: extra luggage, $5.50 per 100 lbs.
  In order to secure passage, you will have
to pay in advance.
	Send your money to procure your ticket
for passage and extra luggage, by post office
order, or draft on New York, payable to
Wm. C. Staines, P. O. box 3957, and your
tickets will be forwarded in time, with in-
structions when and where to join the com-
pany. You must be very particular about
stating the exact weight of your luggage,
as all over the amount not entered on your
ticket will be charged for by the railroad
company at much highter rates.
	You can go at any time after you receive
your tickets.
	It will take nine days to go from New
York to Salt Lake City, Utah, including
stoppages, and you must have means to pur-
chase provisions for that time.
	I have no funds in my hands to assist any
one. 
	All funds raised in Utah for emigration
purposes are forwarded to England to be
used there.


[Column 1]
		  ﻿FLORAL HINTS.

	Our friends who are interested in the de-
lightful pursuit of raising flowers, will find
pleasurable, and doubtless, profitable read-
ing in the selections we propose to offer
from time to time, under the above head.
We also respectfully solicit contributions
from home writers who are capable of giv-
ing information on this subject, suitable to
the practice of floriculture in Utah.
	Sweet-peas should be put into the ground
early, as they will bear the wind and weath-
er, Make a circle round a pole, or some ob-
ject to which they may cling as they rise;
put the peas into the earth an inch deep,
having previously soaked them well. Add
an outer circle every month, so that a con-
tinual bloom may appear. The circle first
sown will ripen and pod for seed in the cen-
tre, while the outer vines will continue

[Column 2]
flowering until late in autumn. When you
have gathered a sufficient number of ripe
pods, cut away all the pods which may
afterward form.
"Every Lady her own Flower Gardener."
	House plants ought to be gently stimulta-
ted once or twice a week. Rain water, so re-
freshing to summer flowers, always contains
ammonia, which also a bounds in all liquid
manures. Take an ounce of pulverized
ammonia, dissolved in one gallon of wa-
ter; it will make spring water even
more stimulating to young plants than rain
water. Keep the soil in the flower pots
loose.––"Field and Factory.
	If our readers knew how easily the White
Water Lily (Nymphia Odorate) could be
cultivated, we believe that very many of
them would be quite as proud of their lily
gardens as of any other portion of their
premises. The roots having been pro-
cured in the fall were kept damp during the
ensuing winter, in flower pots. In the
spring a tub was made by sawing a substan-
tial barrel into, and this, duly painted green,
was set on brick, put in the garden, and one-
third filled with mixture of garden soil,
sand and well rotted manure, The roots
were set in this mixture, water was added
in small quantities, and at intervals of a day
or two, and so gently as not to disturb the
earth, until the tub was filled. Very soon
the handsome round leaves, four or five
inches in diameter, made their appearance
and filled the tub. The loss of water by
evaporation was made good from time to
time, and ere long the blossoms appeared
and delighted every one with their beauty.
	When cold weather came the water was
allowed to dry off almost entirely, and when
it was thus nearly gone, the tub with its
contents, was placed in the cellar and water-
ed at long intervals through the winter. In
the spring the roots were separated, and
about half the increase returned to the same
tub, in a fresh mixture of earth, and they
are now brought out earlier than before,
about April 1st and blossom yet more pro-
fusely. The pure white flowers were as
perfect as the camelia, and delightfully fra-
grant, closing in the night and re-opening
in the morning as is the wont of Water
Lilies. The blossoms were about two inches
in diameter, not quite so large as some of
the specimens in the pond whence these
roots were first taken, but not less beautiful
nor less fragrant.—“Flower Garden.”


[Column 1]
		FACTS AND FIGURES.
	It is estimated that the population of New
Orleans is 239,985.
	Miss Hannah Drury has bought a 2220 acre
plantation in North Carolina.
	A 299-year old newspaper of Stockholm,
Sweden, circulates 15,000 copies daily.
	Many negroes who left Georgia for Missis-
sippi are returning to their old homes.
	"John Smith" of Chicago has sent $600
to the United States Treasurer's Conscience
Fund.
	According to an Ohio mathematician, one
man dies from the use of alcohol every sev-
en minutes.
[Column 2]
	A club of farmers in Chesterfield, Ill., takes
$100 worth of magazines and newspapers
annually.
	A New Jersey man claims a clear profit
on seventy chickens and nineteen ducks,
last year, of $77.
	Five districts in Chester County, Pennsyl-
vania, have elected women to the office of
school directors.
	A tract of land in Missouri containing 40,
000 acres has been bought for a party of
French emigrants.
	There is trouble in the Kansas Agricul-
tural College. Three professors have been
retired by the Board of Regents. The stu-
dents are indignant.
	Minnesota is losing the Scandinavian em-
migration, which is drifting to Kansas, Ne-
braska and Colorado.
	President Grant recommends liberal ap-
propriations by congress of the Philadelphia
Centennial Exposition.
	Upward of 2,500 men have deserted from
the army while stationed in the Pacific States
and Territories since 1871.
	A Mississippi legislator introduced a bill
prohibiting the sale of liquor within five
miles of the State University.
	Mr. Ruskin advocates the purchase by the
National Gallery of a splendid Madonna by
Raphael. The cost will be £40,000.
	Mrs. Sarah E. Beard, Fayetteville, N. Y.,
has given $5000 to Hamilton College as a
fund for the aid of needy students.
	The proudest man in the United States is
in Montgomery, Pa. He carried off 42 pre-
miums at the Doylston Poultry Show.
	Yale College is to have a new chapel, a
plain, but substantial stone structure, seat-
ing 1,200 persons, and costing $120,000.
	A movement to celebrate the Centennial
by a grand exposition in Washington, to be
confined to the United States, is talked of.
	Mr. Gerrett Smith has given, free of con-
ditions, the sum of $10,000 for the benefit of
Hamilton College, of which he is a graduate.
	The Queen, at the recommendation of
Gladstone, has granted a pension of $1,000
per annum to the children of Dr. Living-
stone.
	The statue of Mr. Seward will be shipped
to New York in the spring of 1875. It will
cost $25,000 nearly all of which has been
subscribed.
	Some of the New Hampshire Patrons of
Husbandry are buying flour at $8.25 per bbl.
by the car-load, whereas they had to pay $11
per bbl. for the same article at retail.
	Robert W. Scott of Kentucky states that
he has sold the wool of Angora goats through
the agency of several New York commission
merchants at from 60c. to $1.25 per pound.
	At a recent exhibition in Zanesville, Ohio,
a wedding-dress worn in 1788 was exhibited.
The waist was about two inches long, but
what astonished the ladies most was that
the dress contained only two and a half
yards of silk.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WHICH?

	The following beautiful poem is intended for the fam-
ily circle. It is founded upon an incident where a rich
neighbor offered to make a poor family comfortable, and
provide for the child, if one of seven were given to him.
Some one who has doubtless felt the pangs of poverty,
and yet been a parent, with all the accompanying deep
and holy feelings, has clothed it in poetical attire, and
breathed into it a spirit of love, devotion and faith that
will find a holy response in the breast of every father
and mother.

		"Which shall it be; Which shall it be?"
		I looked at John—John looked at me:
		(Dear patient John, who loves me yet,
		As well as though my locks were jet.)
		And when I found that I must speak,
		My voice seemed strangely low and weak;
		"Tell me again what Robert said!"
		And then I listening bent my head.
		"This is his letter:
							"I will give
		A house and land while you shall live.
		If, in return, from out of your seven,
		One child to me for aye is given."
		I looked at John's old garments worn,
		I thought of all that John had borne;
		Of poverty, and work, and care,
		Which I, though willing, could not share;
		I thought of seven mouths to feed,
		Of seven little children's need,
		And then of this.
						"Come, John," said I,
		"We'll choose among them as they lie
		Asleep;" so walking hand in hand,
		Dear John and I surveyed our band.
		First to the cradle lightly stepped,
		Where Lillian the baby slept;
		Her bright locks lay in pallid light,
		A glory 'gainst the pillow white;
		Softly the father stooped to lay
		His rough hand down in loving way,
		When dream or whisper made her stir,
		And huskily he said, "Not her!"
		We stooped beside the trundle-bed,
		And one long ray of lamplight shed
		Athwart the boyish faces there,
		In sleep so pitiful and fair;
		I saw on Jamie's rough, red cheek,
		A tear undried. Ere John could speak,
		"He's but a baby too," said I,
		And kissed him as we hurried by.
		Pale, patient Robbie's angel face,
		Still in his sleep bore suffering's trace,
		"Not for a thousand crowns, not him,"
		He whispered, while our eyes were dim.
		Poor Dick! bad Dick! our wayward son,
		Turbulent, restless, idle one—
		Could he be spared? "Nay, he who gave,
		Bade us befriend him to the grave;
		Only a mother's heart could be
		Patient enough for such as he,
		And so," said John, "I would not dare
		To send him from her bed-side prayer."
		Then stole we softly up above,
		And knelt by Mary, child of love.
		"Perhaps for her 'twould better be,"
		I said to John. Quite silently
		He lifted up a curl that lay
		Across her cheek in willful way,
		And shook his head. "Nay love, not thee."
		The while my heart beat audibly.
		Then Bess, our second daughter bright,
		Whose dimpled fingers, small and white,
		Whose sylph like form and seraph grace,
		But matched the beauty of her face;
		And these th'external counter-part
		of her gay, guileless, generous heart;
		Coquettish, even in her plays—
		So born, with winsome, coaxing ways:
		"It would not do for her," John said,
		"Temptations wily path to tread."
		Only one more, our eldest lad,
		Trusty and truthful, good and glad—
		So like his father. "No, John, no—
		I cannot, will not let him go!"
		And so we wrote in courteous way,
		WE COULD NOT drive one child away.
		And afterward toil lighter seemed,
		Thinking of that of which we dreamed;
		Happy in truth that not one face
		We missed from its accustomed place;
		Thankful to work for all the seven,
		Trusting the rest to One in Heaven!


The sufferings from the famine in India
continue to increase. The Government will
be obliged to maintain 3,000,000 persons
for three months. The expenditure for the
sufferers amount, so far, to $7,500,000.


The following circular has been handed
to us for publication:
	INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.

		904 WALNUT STREET.

Appeal of the Executive Committee of the Woman's
  Auxiliary Centennial Commission to the Women of
			the United States.
		PHILADELPHIA, July 4th, 1873.
	The International Exhibition of 1876 is
designed to commemorate our National In-
dependence.
	While it seems natural that the spot where
the nation drew its first breath, should be
the point selected by Congress for the proper
celebration of the One Hundredth Anniver-
sary of its existence, it seems also fitting
that Philadelphia should take the initiative
in organizing a systematic plan of work.
	Having this plan in view, the Citizens'
Centennial Finance Committee appointed in
February last, an Executive Committee of
thirteen women—with power to add to their
number if necessary. Their appointment
was confirmed by the Executive Committee
of the Centennial Commission, and their
work approved by the Commission itself,
during its session in this city in May last,
when the formation of similar organizations
throughout the Union was recommended.
	The Woman's Executive Committee
selected a woman in each ward in Philadel-
phia, to act as Chairman of a Committee of
not more than thirty-six women, whose
duty it is to arouse the interest of all in the
success of the Exhibition. The shares are
Ten Dollars each, payable in easy instal-
ments.
	We, members of the Woman's Executive
Committee whose names are hereto append-
ed, now seek the co-operation of the Women
of America, that similar organizations may
be begun, improved upon, and carried to
perfection, in every Village, Township, City
and County in all the States and Territories
of the Union. And in asking this aid and
this interest, we appeal to our sisters
throughout the United States, first on the
ground of patriotism.
	Every good woman desires that her Coun-
try should hold a prominent place in the
family of Nations. Although it may be
that in many respects we are faulty as a
Nation, it is only by contact with others
that we can hope to have our faults correct-
ed. This Exhibition will bring to our
shores, men and women, from all countries,
who, while they may point to our defects,
will carry away with them a proper regard
for what is great and good among us, and
thus promote a feeling of respect for us in
lands where Americans are now, too often
regarded as semi-barbarians.
	Conscious as we may be, that American
women enjoy greater privileges than are ac-
corded to women in any other land, let us
enter on our work, carrying with us the
thought of our blessings. Let us feel as if
it is the birthday of our mother that we are
about to celebrate—a mother with whom
some of us cannot hope to live long. Or,
our land is yet so young, we may almost
imagine that our son will reach his majority
in 1876, and we must help to light the bon-
fires in his honor.
	We would also urge upon the serious con-
sideration of our women, the great advan-
tages to be derived for our sex through this
Exhibition. Through it, women will be
found to possess business qualifications
which may be usefully called forth; the
value of their labour will be raised, and
many who are now struggling for their daily
bread, may be enabled to obtain for them-
selves remunerative positions, by which
they may earn a comfortable livelihood.
[Column 2]
	Every subscription that is gathered will be
but another stone added to the building of
the pedestal on which the American Woman
is destined, through her work, to stand; and
in helping ourselves, we shall help the
women in other lands, where now it is not
uncommon to see a woman and a cow har-
nessed together to a plough and a man
driving them.
	Actuated, then, by our love for our land,
and our ambition for our sex, we go forth
doubly armed to make the exhibition of '76
a grand success. Some may say that the
exhibition will merely affect the interests of
Philadelphia, but this is not so. Just as the
Declaration of Independence brought free-
dom to all the States, so will this Exhibition
bring high consideration for each State in
the Union. Each signer of that precious
document did not insist upon returning to
his own State, there to affix his signature.
It was given here for the welfare of all; and
here shall the products of each State be
brought gladly by her children; while here
for the honour of all shall these commem-
orative ceremonies be held.
	It is true we all have a certain sort of State
pride, which is natural and commendable.
Massachusetts is deaf to the noise of her
shuttles and looms, or finds sweet music in
them. Pennsylvania thinks the soot of her
mines becoming to the complexion of her
people. South Carolina is proud of her
many cotton fields, and Louisiana finds noth-
ing so sweet as her sugar-cane. The West
rejoices, first, in her prairies, and then in the
iron belts which girdle them. But what
citizen from any State is insensible to a feel-
ing of pride on beholding the Capitol at
Washington? And yet the immediate ad-
vantages derived from that Capitol belong
only to those who live in the District of Col-
umbia.
	Which of us can see the harbor of New
York and not feel glad that it is ours, while
the proud pleasure of actually possessing it
belongs only to the citizens of New York.
	Whatever motives actuate us, let us work
together with a will. To you, Chairmen of
State Committees, who will fan our spark
into a flame, we look for help. To you and
to your aids will belong the honour of what-
ever is done. We are ready to aid you in
this, our National Work. When you are
organizing your Committees, if any word of
ours will help or cheer, we stand ready to
go to you at your call. We are one with
you. It may not fall to the lot of all of us
to see that one hundredth anniversary of our
National Independence, but let us pray God
not only for a blessing on our work, but that
those of us who remain on that day, may
have the joy of feeling that throughout these
years all has gone pleasantly in our inter-
course with each other, and that in '76 we
shall have earned the reward which comes
from the faithful performance of any duty,
while at the same time we will have proved
ourselves able coadjutors in this great and
important mission.
	Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, President, 250 S.
21st Street; Mrs. John Sanders, Vice-Presi-
dent, 410 South 15th St.; Mrs. J. Edgar
Thompson, Treasurer, 18th & Spruce Sts.;
Mrs. Aubrey H. Smith, Secretary, 1516 Pine
Street; Miss McHenry, 1902 Chestnut St.;
Mrs. Charles J. Stille, 1505 Walnut Street;
Miss Elizabeth Gratz, 1409 Locust Street;
Mrs, John W. Forney, 618 S. Washington
Square; Mrs. Emily R. Buckman, 567 North
16th. Street; Mrs. Richard P. White, 2113
Pine Street; Mrs. Henry Cohen, 1828 S.
Rittenhouse Square; Mrs. Matthew Simp-
son, 1807 Mount Vernon St.; Mrs. A. H.
Franciscus, 1529 Arch Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿LABOR IN LITERATURE.

	Verses to which a journalist will cheerfully al-
low space in his daily local paper, may be dashed off
by many of the “small harpers with their glees,”
as a pleasant way of killing an idle hour. But
Tennyson was ten years writing “In Memoriam.”
Thomas Grey was, in his day, one of the finest
scholars in Great Britain, and perhaps unsurpassed
in Europe. Very brief is the poem to which he
mainly owes his celebrity, and which will keep his
memory green and fragrant as long as the English
language lasts. It may be read through in five
minutes, but Grey was seven years in elaborating
it. Upon his death bed Daniel Webster called for
this poem. The gallant Wolfe, when, under cover
of night, transporting his brave men to the mem-
orable heights of Abraham, broke the solemn silence
which pervaded the boats, by repeating stanzas of
the “Elegy in a Country Churchyard,” and finished
with the exclamation, “Gentlemen, I would prefer
being the author of that poem, to the glory of beat-
ing the French to-morrow.” Perhaps these words
were prompted to the devoted soldier by the invol-
untary reflection which Rufus Choate expressed,
when he said, “The only immortality is in a book.”
But Grey’s is no solitary case of scrupulousness in
literary work. At the town of Ferrara is still
treasured the ancient scrap of paper upon which
Ariosto wrote one of his stanzas—the description
of a tempest—in sixteen different ways before be-
coming satisfied with it. That stanza is one of the
most celebrated among Ariosto’s remains.
	Petrarch surpassed this. One of his verses or
stanzas he re-wrote six-and-forty times; and Tas-
so’s manuscripts so abound in alterations, that they
are illegible to other people’s eyes. Montesquieu
once remarked to a friend, concerning a particular
part of his writings: “You will read it in a few
hours, but I assure you that it has cost me so much
labor that it has whitened my hair.” Newton,
despite his great intellect and huge stores of learn-
ing, found within himself patience to write his
“Chronology” sixteen times over. Gibbon wrote
out his “Autobiography” nine times, and gave
twenty years’ toil to his “Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire,” When the late Dr. Buckland
was preparing his “Bridgewater Treatise upon Ge-
ology and Mineralogy,” he made such numerous and
frequent changes in the composition, that his wife
copied part of it for him nineteen times, and pen-
ned four separate copies of the whole work. It
was a favorite theory with Goethe, and on this point
the meditative Coleridge agreed with the many-sid-
ed German, that power to conjure up lively senti-
ments is in no measure lost as men grow in years;
whereas ability to utter them forcibly is vastly in-
creased by practice. In harmony with this opinion
was his course in regard to Faust, which he took in
hand at the age of twenty, and completed in the
full maturity of three score years and ten.—“Mary
Granger in the Old Curiosity Shop.”


﻿Queen Victoria Witty.—An amusing but
amiable witticism is attributed to the Queen,
which, in its way, is almost good enough to
have been uttered by one of those recog-
nized humorists who have occasionally adorn-
ed thrones. Some one at court had spoken
disparagingly (of course) of the hostile criti-
cisms pronounced by Sir Charles Dilke on
the civil list. “It is strange,” Queen Vic-
toria is said to have replied, “for I remem-
ber having him as a boy on my knee and
stroking his hair. * * * * * * * I
suppose," added her Majesty, after a mo-
ment’s pause, “I must have stroked it the
wrong way.”


The Toronto Globe claims that Canada,
with a population about equal to New Eng-
land, has in its domain 864,635 children an-
nually, while New England has but 17,561.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.
	THE man question.—What is he worth?
	WHY is a new-born baby like a gale of
wind? Because it begins with a squall.
	WHAT is that which goes from New York
to Albany every day and yet never stirs?—
The turnpike.
	WHAT is the difference between a jewel-
ler and a jailer? One sells watches and the
other watches cells.
	A LITTLE boy asked a lady who made her
teeth."My Creator," she replied. "Well,"
said the youngster, "Dr. —— made my ma's,
and they beat your'n clean out o' sight."
	A LADY having brought a suit to recover
a chignon from a hair-dresser with whom
she had left it for repair, her little boy
wanted to know "if that chignon was what
is called 'hair-at-law?'"
	MARYLAND girls wont marry in the full of
the moon, believing they would have ill-
luck through life, but a Massachusetts girl
wouldn't let forty full moons stop her ten
seconds.
	A YOUNG dandy, who sported an enor-
mous mustache, asked a lady what she
thought of his looks? "Why," said she
"you look as if you had swallowed a pony,
and left the tail sticking out of your
mouth."
	AT a collection recently made at a charity
fair, a lady passed the plate to a very wealthy
man who was well known for his stinginess.
"I have nothing," was his curt reply. "Then
take something, sir," she answered, "You
know I am begging for the poor."
	"Do you enjoy going to church now?,,
asked a lady of Mrs. Partington. "La, me,
I do," replied Mrs. P. Nothing does me so
much good as to get up early on Sunday
morning and go to church, and hear a popu-
lous minister dispense with the gospel."
	"I DON'T like these shoes," said a lady
customer, "because the soles are too thick."
"Is that the only objection?" blandly asked
the salesman. "Yes," was the reply.
"Then, madam, if you take the shoes, I can
assure you that the objection will gradually
wear away."
	THE first Marquis of Huntley, on his first
arrival at court, forgot the usual tribute of
obeisance, and was asked why he did not
bow? He begged his Majesty's pardon, and
excused his want of respect, by saying, he
was just come from a place where everybody
bowed to him.
	"A MEMBER of our Legislature," says an
Ohio paper, "who was on a dead-head excur-
sion out on the plains, lost his pass, and had
to walk seventy miles before he could find a
man who had sufficient confidence in his ap-
pearance to lend him money to telegraph
home to his wife to sell the cooking-stove
and remit him the proceeds at once."
	A SUBURBAN minister applied to a ticket
agent on one of the railroads for a "clergy-
man's ticket," and on the official expressing
a doubt  to his clerical character, exclaim-
ed, "If you don't believe I'm a clergyman,
I'll read you one of my sermons!" The
agent gave him a ticket without insisting
upon the proof.
	SMART reply.—A humorous fellow being
subpoenaed as a witness on a trial for an as-
sault, one of the counsel, who had been no-
torious for brow-beating witnesses, asked
him what distance he was from the parties
when the assault happened; he answered,
"Just four feet five inches and a half."—
[Column 2]
"How came you to be so very exact, fellow?"
said the counsel. "Because I expected some
fool or other would ask me," said he, "so I
measured it."
	A WASHINGTON paper tells this good
story about Hon. S. S. Cox, the irrepressible
Congressman from New York City. The
other day Cox was unusually active, spurty
and irrepressible in the House. He was
continually at the front, "catching on the
fly," and rampaging round generally. Fi-
nally, when the House came to an agreement
to proceed with the debate on the salary bill
in twenty minute speeches, Cox despatched
a page with the following note:
	"Dear Mr. Speaker.—Put me down for
twenty minutes.				S. S. C.
	To which the Speaker replied;
	"Dear Cox.—I would be delighted if I
could keep you down half that time.
J. G, B,"


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	There is no difficulty where the princi-
ples of action are known to be those of exact
justice, and diffusive benevolence.
	In New York City, single rosebuds cost
twenty-five cents, and carnations twenty
cents. Smilax is sold at one dollar a yard,
and violets by the dozen at twelve cents.
One spray of lilies of the valley costs twen-
ty-five cents.
	If you wanted to teach a person to read,
you would not go to work by depriving
him of all access to books. Be kind, gen-
tle, forbearing as you please, but make every
woman responsible for the performance of
duty, and commence, O men, by doing your
own.
	The late physician to the Emperor of
Russia made a careful study of the effect of
light as a curative agent in the hospital of
St. Petersburg. He discovered that the
number of patients who were cured in rooms
properly lighted was four times as large as
it was when they were confined in dark
rooms.
	“As a man thinketh, so is he.” We see
people nearly every day who consider them-
selves the most unhappy, ill-fated, badly
used people in the world. And certainly
they may be classed among the most miser-
able of the human race, for their wretched
dispositions alone, make them so. Again,
we meet with others who believe that they
are—almost without exception—the most
favored of all God’s creatures. They realize
the peculiar blessings which He bestows up-
on them, and often forget that He may be
doing as great good to their neighbors,
though perhaps in some other way. So, no
matter what their circumstances in life may
be, they still inhabit dwellings among the
most blest of mankind—gratitude and good-
nature place them there.
	The question is asked, how are men to do
business if they must share their receipts
with a wife? But there is no need that they
should share receipts with a wife in that
way. They should appropriate a certain
stated sum to family expenses, which it is
the wife's business to use to the best advan-
tage for the comfort and happiness of the
household. Beyond that it is the man’s
business, as it should be his pleasure, to so
employ his energies as to develop the world’s
resources, increase its wealth, and set the
example of a wise and true use of it, ac-
knowledging always the right of his wife
to a share in the accumulations of his indus-
try, and her prudence in devoting them first
to the enlargment of the comfort and happi-
ness of the family.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2 one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY, April 1, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	The idea is gaining grounds that the fre-
quent use of fish as diet is promotive of
brain power......Gilt and silver buttons for
collars and cuffs, fastening with a spring, are
becoming popular......Two of the gentlemen
composing a Committee of the Common
Council of Boston, to nominate candidates
for Overseers of the Poor, recommend the
appointment of women to such offices......
Disraeli and Sir S. Northcote have been re-
elected to Parliament without opposition.....
Wire netting is being introduced as a sub-
stitute for lath. It is considered better than
lath as it requires less labor is more con-
tinuous and is fire-proof......Dr. Decaisne of
Paris protests against the drinking of blood
as a cure for invalids, pronouncing it equally
absurd and disgusting. We should think 
so......Immigrant wagons from Iowa were
crossing the Missouri river on the ice as late
as March 14th......Considerable excitement
has been occasioned from cinnabar being
discovered near Carson Nevada......Report
says, every white man who marries a squaw,
in the Indian Territory is given 100 acres of 
land......Church property is taxed in Texas
.....Nilsson, Capoul and many others were to
sing at a concert given in March, by a com-
mittee of young ladies, in aid of the build-
ing fund of the Young Ladies' Christian
Association of New York......Oliver Ames
has been elected president, and E. H. Rol-
lins Secretary of the U. P. R. R. Co.......The 
largest rose-bush in America is at Santa
Rosa, Cal.......There are thirty-four cotton
mills in Georgia......Mrs. B. H. Conway of
Fredrick County, Md., is a prominent railroad
contractor......In Southern Indiana the wal-
nut timber is nearly exhausted......Barnett,
Vt., is proud of a young resident named
Nelson, who has spelled down three school
districts four times........On Dunn's Lake,
Florida, Jamaica ginger is extensively cul-
tivated......Santa Anna is seventy-six years
old, and he is going to Mexico, the land of
his birth and early glories, to spend his re-
maining days......Florida gets most of her
butter from Ohio.....Methodism in India,
as elsewhere, it is said, is becoming noted
for its singing......It is estimated that over
14,500,000 children are of school age in this
country......A daughter of the Earl of Gains-
borough, married her music teacher, came
to this country and now resides in Virginia,
where she is known as Mrs. Blanche Mur-
phy.........In Amador County, Cal., a pure
quality of Alum is found in large quantities
in the form of incrustations on the rocks.....
The Legislature of Georgia has repealed all
acts authorizing the granting or loaning of
the State's credit to railroad companies.......
In Troy. N. Y., saloon keepers issue invita-
tions and provide free lunches for the tem-
perance ladies......A new life-boat, called
"The Petrel," has been invented by Mr.
Chapman, an English gentleman........The
remains of Dr. Livingstone, it is reported,
will be transported from Africa to England
at public expense......During a late storm,
the steamship "Sedra" was lost on the way
from Newcastle to Port Said, and thirty per-
sons were drowned.


A MODEL DAIRYMAID.

	Charles Nordhoff, in his California travels,
found some model dairy farms. In most of
them men did the milking and also the
butter making; but, alas! he was captivated
with one pretty face he met by chance:
	“On one farm I found a pretty Sweedish,
girl superintending all the in-door work


with such skill and order in all departments
that she possessed, so far as I saw, the
model dairy on the estate. Here, said I to
myself, is now an instance of the ability of
women to compete with men, which would
delight Mrs. Stanton and all the woman's
rights people. Here is the neatest, the
sweetest, the most complete dairy in the
whole region; the best order, the most shin-
ing utensels, the nicest butter-room—and
not only butter, but cheese is also made,
which is not usual; and here is a rosy-faced,
white-armed, smooth-haired, sensibly-dress-
ed, and altogether admirable, and to my
eyes beautiful Sweedish lass presiding over
it all, commanding her men servants and
keeping every part of the business in order.
Alas! Mrs. Stanton, she has discovered a
better business than butter-making. She is
going to marry—sensible girl that she is;
and she is not going to marry a dairy-far-
mer either. I doubt if any body in Califor-
nia can make such nice butter as this pretty
Sweed. Certainly every other dairy I saw
seemed to me common-place and uninterset-
ing after I had seen hers. I don't doubt
that the young man who had the art to
persuade her to love him ought to be hang-
ed, because butter-making is far more im-
portance than marrying. Nevertheless, I
wish him joy in advance; and hereby give
it as my belief that the pretty Sweed is a
sensible girl."


NOTICE.

	THE ANNUAL Conference to be held in this
city on the 6th of April next, will meet and
adjourn to Thursday, May 7th, at 10 o'clock
a. m.
					BRIGHAM YOUNG,
					GEORGE A. SMITH,
					DANIEL H. WELLS.

	     NOTICE TO OUR FRIENDS.

	In our last issue we published a few hints to
correspondents, which we trust will be received
kindly, and be productive of the beneficial ef-
fects, for which they were intended. Will our
friends please read them, and cease to send us
anonymous contributions? As an article can-
not receive attention except we are in posses-
sion of the author's real name.—We wish also
to state that obituary poems in memory of pri-
vate individuals cannot be given space in the
columns of the EXPONENT, as there are so
many received of that character, that it would
be inconsistent to attempt their insertion in
our limited space. The time draws near which
brings our second volume to a close; and we
hope to find our friends still in readiness to as-
sist in carrying on the undertaking which we
have engaged in for the general good. As many
subscriptions as can be obtained, should be
sent in before the first of June, at which time


the EXPONENT commences its third year. So
that we may be prepared to issue a sufficient
number of copies to meet the demands from
the beginning of the volume. Many calls have
been made for back numbers of the present
volume, some of which we have been unable
to meet, not having risked the uncertain in-
demnity of issuing a large number of surplu
copies. This disadvantage both to the journal
and to its subscribers we wish to guard against
in future; and therefore give timely notice, in
order that those wishing to secure the full vol-
ume may do so by sending in their subscrip-
tions before the time arrives for issuing the first
number of volume third.


A GOOD PROPOSITION.

	Utah produces yearly an abundance of fruit
of various kinds, still thousands of dollars are
annually expended by the people for canned
fruits, jellies etc., which are imported from
California and other places. This is poor econ-
omy. But besides this, by the great quantities
of surplus fruit which is left to rot on the
ground or dry and shrivel on the trees and
bushes, the atmosphere of cities is infected with
impure and unwholesome effluvia, which, as is
well known, engenders disease.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow offers a suggestion, to
the effect that the women might take the mat-
ter in hand, and by co-operating, find measures
for preserving the fruit at home—thus prevent-
ing the waste and curtailing expenses.
	We doubt not, the hint will meet with general
favor, and be productive of good results. If
such a plan were adopted on a large enough
scale, it would follow as a natural consequence
that more pains would be taken and better
qualities of fruit raised. And it would also
cause a necessity for the starting of some use-
ful branches of industry in our midst, which
are now unknown in Utah.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	OGDEN COMMEMORATED St. Patrick's day by a
grand ball at the Junction Hotel.
	A PLANK side walk has been put down in
front of the Post Office; an improvement wor-
thy of notice in these times of slush and mud.
	ST. PATRICK’S day, March. 17th, passed with-
out any public celebration in this city. The
cause has been assigned to the unusually severe
snow storm.
	THE FREIGHTING of ore over the Wasatch
and Jordan Valley railroad has been increasing
lately. This line has a fair prospect for doing a
large business during the coming summer.
	THE HORTICULTURAL Society, a short time
since discussed the question as to which kinds of
trees are the most suited for shade trees in this
climate. They decided that the best sorts for
general cultivation here, are the honey locust,
mulberry, box elder and black walnut.
	OWNERS OF city lots should take advantage
of the present time to clean out or make water
ditches in front of their property, thus prepar-
ing for the abundance of water likely to result
from the melting snows, and also contributing
to the neat appearance of our city.
	THE OGDEN Junction strongly advocates the
necessity and benefit of a public library and
reading room for that city; also the erecting of
a good lecture-hall. An Ogden City Library
Association has been organized and formed
the nucleus for a library but it needs general
encouragement and support to become a success.


[Column 1]	
	THE PEOPLE of Logan, have been energetic
during the past winter season notwithstanding
its severity, in preparing to push forward the
work on their new Tabernacle when the fine
weather opens. Several thousand tons of rock
and a large quantity of sand have been hauled,
about enough, it is believed, for the foundation
and walls.
	THE FALL of snow since our last issue has
been without doubt—one of the deepest that
has occured in this city since it has been settled
being nearly if not quite two feet deep. The
storm, with brief respites, continued for several
days. The last few days of fine weather have
caused the snow, in the valley, to rapidly 
disappear.
	The Z. C. M. I. Retail boot and shoe depart-
ment is being moved from the “Big Boot,” on
Main street, to the Wholesale Dept., just west
of the Eagle Emporium on First South St.
The Retail business is to be carried on in the
front part, and the Wholesale in the south
or rear part of the building. Both departments
will be under the charge of Mr. Rowe.
	A YOUNG Men’s Institute has been organized
in the 19th ward of this city, The following 
brethren were elected as officers—George Neb-
eker, President; James Watson and Geo. D.
Nebeker, Vice-Presidents; A. W. Carlson, Sec-
retary; Wm. Ridd, Treasurer; Millando Pratt,
J. M. Watson, Christopher Alston, Elihu Bar-
rel, Joseph Mathews and Alfred Solomon,
Directors. We hope its members will be as
successful in their efforts for mutual entertain-
ment and improvement as the members of
other kindred societies have been.
	THE LAST two or three weeks has been mark-
ed by heavy storms extending over a wide
range of country, and the snow has been unusu-
ally deep in many localities throughout these
mountains. The Central Pacific railroad was
blockaded twice in the Sierras, when the snow
was reported to be at one time, from twenty-five
to thirty feet deep. The heavy drifting snow
has also impeded travel, over the Utah North-
ren R. R., sleighs having been used to convey
passengers and mails over the blockaded por-
tion of the road. Reports from different coun-
ties show that stock have suffered for the want
of feed; especially where they have been turned
out to subsist on what they could find in the
mountains and on the “ranges,” many have
died through cold and starvation.
	FROM THE “Ogden Junction” we learn that
on the 13th ult., a grand Sabbath School Jubi-
lee was held at Brigham City, Box Elder Co.,
in the Court House hall which was elegantly
decorated for the occasion. The morning hours
were devoted to recitations, songs, and other
exercises by the scholars, and addresses by
prominent citizens. The afternoon and eve-
ning were given to dancing. Superintendents
J.C. Wixom, A. Madsen, C. Kelley and Sec’y
T. H. Wild, with others, doing all in their
power to promote the well being and pleasure
of the participants. Also on Saturday the 14th,
and Sunday the l5th, a Conference for that
Stake was held at the same place. President
Lorenzo Snow, of the Twelve Apostles, presid-
ed over the meetings which were densely
crowded, notwithstanding the inclement
weather. The choir conducted by Prof, Fis-
burn, with their sweet music contributed to
make the occasion a very interesting one. The
different branches of the Church and de-
partments of the Co-operative Institution, in
that county, were represented. Much excel-
lent and practical instruction was imparted by
the various speakers, and the general authori-
ties of the Church, and of the Box Elder Stake

[Column 2]
of Zion were unanimously sustained by vote.
We also note that “A number of young men
were called and sustained by the Conference to
labor in the several departments of the Co-op-
erative Institution,” which, in that locality,
has become one of the most successful and
self-sustaining in the country; and though
money is not very plentiful, the people are
prosperous and comfortable.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE NOISE OF CHILDREN.

	There is too much fussing about the noise of chil-
dren, consequent upon too little knowledge of the
requirements of youth in its effervescing state. If
growth and health are considered in their true bear-
ings, children cannot make too much noise. The
school-mistress who enforces silence on her pupils
is committing, unintentionally, of course, an offense
against reason, worthy only of a convent. Every
burst of laughter, every shout, nay, every moderate
fit of crying conduces to health, by radidly filling
and emptying the lungs and changing the blood
rapidly from black to red—that is, from death to
life. Andrew Combe is a great authority on such
matters, and he tells a story of a great charity school,
where the pupils were forced to be so silent that a
large portion fell ill. Without doubt this is one
good reason why children with delicate constitutions
cannot go through our public schools without break-
ing down. They are kept too still. Often too,
teachers are disposed to insist on a posture so erect
as to be absolutely injurious; for the body has more
parts than one, and while to sit so upright is good
for the chest, it is, if long continued, an intense
strain on the spine. The truth is, children should
not be subjected to monotony of any kind. They
should speak and be silent, sit erect and loll, very
much as nature inclines grown people to do. It is
time that more attention is paid to the Kindergar-
ten system in schools, and less to the State’s prison
one so generally in vogue.—Ex.


﻿STRONG CHESTS FOR WOMEN AND
			CHILDREN.

	Dr. Susan Everett's lecture last week, at Robin-
son Hall, in New York, to ladies, on “Strong Chests
for Women and Children,” called forth a large audi-
ence. Mrs. Everett chained the attention of her
hearers to the last. Her bright sayings and prac-
tical and often unexpected application of her re-
marks to those present, were pleasantly received
and several times applauded. Mrs. Everett briefly
introduced her subject by calling attention to the
Venus de Medici, the proportions of which she ap-
proved, with the exception of the head, which she
called “almost a deformity.” The model head ex-
hibited was after the phrenological pattern—spirit-
ualized. Statistics show that only one man in seven
has a chest proportioned to the rest of his body.
Mrs. Everett hazarded the assertion that only one
woman in twenty possesses a properly developed
chest. Corsets, the most delicate whalebones, she
very emphatically asserted, are deleterious to health.
Large numbers of women are “chest-foundered.”
Women can materially increase the size of their
chests by paying due attention to a proper mode of
breathing. The nose only is the right medium for
conveying air to the lungs. She discouraged the
cultivation of plants in living rooms. She advoca-
ted large supplies of fresh air and gymnastic exer-
cises for chest development. Women who inhale
and exhale correctly, have more enthusiasm; they
possess a fine carriage, provided they do not wear
corsets. Because American women are enthusiastic,
they are the handsomest women in the world.
Foreign women, as a rule, become too stout, are
too phlegmatic, too expressionless.—“Woman’s
Journal.”


YOU may glean knowledge by reading,
but you must separate the chaff from the
wheat by thinking.


THE SEX.

	QUEEN Victoria is said to be writing a
book, the scene being laid in Germany.
	THE Baroness Lionel de Rothschild is said
to be the author of “From January to De-
cember.”
	IT is said of the mother of Chang and
Eng, the Siamese Twins, she was so large
that when she died the sides of the doorway
had to be cut away to enable the coffin to
pass out.
	AT the thirty-fourth Annual Commence-
ment of the Baltimore College of Dental
Surgery, Miss Louise Jacobi, of Berlin, Prus-
sia, graduated with high honor, being
among the first in anatomy and chemistry.
	THE names of the four Swedish girls who
are attracting so much attention in Paris
by their quartet singing of Scandinavian
melodies, are Hilda Wideburg, Marie Peter-
sen, Amy Aberg and Wildelmina Soeder-
lund.
	THE will of Miss Bettie Bates was pro-
bated at Indianapolis. It disposes of a
quarter of a million of property; $150,000
she bequeaths to her relatives and friends,
and she provides a fund of $100,000 for the
benefit of the poor of the city.
	MRS. Dr. Helen W. Webster of New Bed-
ford, has accepted the position of Professor
of Physiology and Hygiene and Resident
Physician at Vassar College. Mrs. Webster
has been very successful as a physician at
New Bedford, and is represented to be well
qualified for her new position.
	MISS Landseer has presented £100 to the
English Lifeboat Institution as a memorial
of the regard her brother, Sir Edwin
Landseer, had often expressed for the Insti-
tution as the means of a great and noble
work on the coast of the British Isles.
	THE Princess Pierre Bonaparte has arrived
in Paris. Having been reduced almost to
poverty by the fall of the empire, she deter-
mined to try and gain her own living, and
so set up a dressmaker’s establishment in
Bond St., London, which is now in a thriv-
ing state. She went to Paris to make pur-
chases.
	A MARYLAND lady, Mrs. B. H. Conway,
of Frederick County, who has established a
reputation as a contractor for “fills” and
“cuts,” has filled several contracts in Penn-
sylvania, been awarded a $100,000 job on
the Western Maryland Railroad, and now
takes the work of excavating a tract in Bal-
timore for building sites.
	QUEEN Victoria is gradually recovering
from the grief of her widowhood. For a
long time after the death of the Prince Con-
sort she could not bear to touch a piano, nor
did she even allow one to be opened in her
presence. Now she has resumed her old
accomplishment, and plays duets with her
last remaining daughter, the Princess Bea-
trice; and Gounod has arranged some of the
music of “Jeanne d’Arc” as a duet for the
Queen and her daughter.
	THE education of native girls in India is
progressing satisfactorily, in spite of the so-
cial prejudices against it. In a recent ex-
amination of the Free Church Orphanage,
six girls out of ten obtained sufficient marks
to have put them in the first division of the
University list, and some of the examiners
were Hindoos. Similar results have been
obtained in Madras, where the girls pass the
government examination for certificated
school mistresses.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE LOVE OF BEAUTY.

	O flower! the sunshine loves to kiss,
	Speckled or streaked, or bright or dull!
	What can we say of thee but this?—
			So beautiful!

	O grass! that has with glory decked
	The land that else were bare and dull,
	This for thy title we elect—
			Most beautiful!

	O star! that gildest all the sea.
	And fill’st the air with splendor full,
	What is there to be said of thee—
			Save beautiful?

	O child! with tresses spun of gold,
	And eyes with heavenly light o’er full,
	What word has half thy beauty told—
			Like beautiful?

	In truth, when any thing is sweet,
	The grass we tread, the flower we cull,
	The star, the child, we must repeat—
			How beautiful!
							ALICE CARY,


[Column 1]
	       HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	The Home of Taste.—How easy it is to 
be neat—to be clean! How easy to arrange
the rooms with the most graceful propriety!
How easy it is to invest our houses with the
truest elegance! Elegance resides not with
the upholsterer or the draper; it exists in 
the spirit presiding over the apartments of
the dwelling. Contentment must always
be most grateful; it sheds serenity over the
scene of its abode; it transforms a waste in-
to a garden. The home lighted by those 
imitations of a nobler and brighter life may
be wanting in much which the discontented
desire, but to its inhabitants it will be a pal-
ace, far outvying the Oriental in brilliancy
and beauty.
	In these days of canned fruits, sauces are
always ready. Fill empty cans toward
spring with sweet apples. They are nice
with a few raisins or spiced lemons.
	Apple Short-cakes.—Make a rich cake of
sour cream, saleratus and enough flour to
roll out; bake, split open and spread on
stewed apples, sugar, butter, and nutmeg.
	Bridgeport Cake.—One cup of butter, two
of sugar, three and one half of flour, two of
currants, one of sour milk, four eggs, one
teaspoonful of soda, juice and grated rind of
one lemon.
	Mucilage of Gum-arabic—According to
R: Rother, the following formula affords a
mucilage which will keep in the hottest
weather:—Gum-arabic, 12 troy ounces; gly-
cerine, 8 fluid ounces; water 16 fluid ounces.
	We sometimes find our store of pickles
growing too small towards spring, and it is
rather a poor time to replenish them; but
apple pickles are about as good as any, judg-
ing from the way people eat them. Pare
and halve the apples, removing the cores
carefully to keep them in good shape,
Steam them and remove to a jar. Heat
spiced vinegar and pour over them.
	Lemon Pie.—Three eggs, three lemons,
three tablespoonfuls of corn starch, three cups
of sugar, one quart of boiling water, and a
little salt. Wet the starch first in cold wa-
ter, then add slowly the hot water; roll the
lemons, cut them open and squeeze out the
juice, peel out the pulp and cut fine. Do
not use the rind. Add the juice and pulp
to the sugar and starch. Beat the eggs and
add them last. This will make five pies
with two crusts each.
	Antidote for Poison.—If a person swallows
any poison whatever, or has fallen into con-
vulsions from having overloaded the stom-
[Column 2]
ach, an instantaneous remedy, more efficient
and applicable in a large number of cases
than any half a dozen medicines we can now
think of,is a heaping teaspoon full of common
salt, and as much ground mustard, stirred
rapidly in a cup of water, warm or cold, and
swallowed instantly. It is scarcely down
before it begins to come up, bringing with
it the remaining contents of the stomach,
and lest there be any remnant of a poison,
however small, let the white of an egg, or a 
teacup of strong coffee, be swallowed as soon
as the stomach is quiet: because these very
common articles nullify a larger number of
virulent poisons than any medicines in the
shops.
	Buckwheat Cakes.—Take 4 tablespoonfuls
of hop yeast, 4 cups of tepid water, nearly
4 cups of buckwheat flour, sifted, and a little
salt. Measure the flour after sifting, or they
will be too thick. Mix in a stone jar, and if
desired for breakfast, let them stand over
night in a warm place to rise, and when
light fry as other griddle cakes. Leave
about a teacupful of batter in the jar, and
add water, salt and flour as before, omitting
the yeast. The second and third mess will
be better than the first. Use no saleratus
in these cakes. If they should become sour
cleanse the jar thoroughly and start again
with yeast. Be sure to keep the jar in a cool
place after the batter begins to rise, or it
will become sour. These cakes are delicious
with nice butter and honey. Very nice
apple griddle cakes are made as above,
only substituting good wheat flour for buck-
wheat, and when ready to fry, stirring gen-
tly among them a quantity of sliced, mel-
low apples (not too acid.)


[Column 1]
		 WOMAN'S VOICE.

			S. L. CITY, March 20th, 1874.
MRS. RICHARDS:—
	Often when reading the spirited, intelli-
gent letters of our sisters, in your paper, I
have been led to ask, 'why do I not say
something in behalf of the kingdom of God
and its principles, through our worthy EX-
PONENT?' For indeed it is worthy the sup-
port of every good woman, and, I believe,
will shortly be earnestly sustained by a large
portion of the brethren. My husband pro-
nounces it one of the best papers he reads,
and I consider him a good judge; and doubt
not that many of my sisters will concede
that I am right in thus thinking. I feel it
my duty to do all in my power to sustain
this enterprise, and am not afraid to say
that it will flourish, as will every other
good work, supported by the people of God.
This has the most noble of women at its
head,—those who are making bright marks
in our midst, not by carrying out the abomi-
able fashions and customs of the ungodly,
but the true and humble ones in the cause
of right. Sisters, let us all try to be USEFUL
ORANMENTS in the Kingdom of God; and
let the world, and those who choose it and
its practices take the downward course, if
they refuse the precious Gospel and its bless-
ings which are offered without money and
wtihout price, to every one. What joy and
happiness we feel when we know we are
doing right! What purer joy exists on
earth, than that which the little girl feels
when she can look in her mother's face and
meet a tender, loving smile, knowing that
she has done all that was required of her
during the day? She can fall asleep at
night and dream beautiful dreams,and awake
in the morning to begin her joyfull task
again: but, should she forget and trifle with
her mother's counsel, as many children do,
[Column 2]
what is the result? At night, there is no
sweet smile from Mother—and the thought-
ful child goes to bed with a sad heart, not
to be blest with cheering dreams, or to rise
in the morning full of joy to meet the par-
ent whom she has offended. Who among
our young sisters then, would not take the
advice of experience, and love and obey
their dear fathers and mothers who, while
in life, bless and protect them from the
snares of this wicked world? And
when death separates loving hearts, is
it not worth worlds, to know that the dear
ones have gone to plead for their children,
and prepare a home for them in the man-
sions of the blest, while their teachings of
obedience to the principles of the kingdom
of our Father in heaven, are left as the rich-
est of inheritances, for those that love the
Lord! Then, let us each one say, 'However
others may do, as for me, I will seek to do
right, and serve God.' Knowing that when
we do this, we feel contented and have a
sweet influence that whispers peace and
comfort in the midst of earthly trials. And
when the sleep of death comes, what a glo-
rious thought to awaken in the realms of
the sanctified, and enjoy the society of the
noble, just and truo that have gone before 
us!					E. F. THOMAS.

		SMITHFIELD, March 14th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
	This is a beautiful morning, warm and
bright and pleasant, but your correspondent
not feeling first-rate either in body or mind,
concluded, by way of “courting sunshine”
to sit down and address a line to you. Doubt-
less you are aware that when the heart is
a little o’er burdened with care, the mind
restive and anxious, one of the best meth-
ods for producing quiescence, is to pick up a
pen and begin writing. Not hastily, so that
you merely give vent to your unpleasant
feelings by putting them down on paper— 
thus aggravating instead of correcting them;
but writing thoughtfully, carefully, in a
manner that one could feel conscientiously
self-justified in adopting, even in the pres-
ence of angels.
	We have had a long, heavy winter here, 
and I begin to feel almost impatient for the
snow and frost to quit the earth, and let the
sun warm and prepare it for the labors of
the husbandman and the reception of seeds
and plants. You know I must have my
little flower-garden if there is the laest 
chance for such a thing, wherever I am.
	I feel thankful now, to be where I can go
to meeting and have the society of Saints. 
And wherever my lot may be cast, I desire
one thing, and that is to live my Religion 
day-by-day. I am glad to see your paper
improving, and sincerely hope it will continue
to shed forth light both at home and abroad;
and that it may help prove to the ignorant
and benighted, that those who speak evil of
Zion, are bringing themselves under con-
demnation before the Almighty Judge.
	God bless you always and keep you in His
gracious care. Affectionately,
                                                       S. K. G.


MARIE Verdin, a girl 18 years of age, is
attracting the attention of the medical fac-
ulty of Paris. She is afflicted with a strange
infirmity known as "nyctalope," that is, los-
ing the faculty of sight when the sun is
above the horizon, and regaining it in the
night-time. During the day Mlle. Verdin
is obliged to keep her eyes closed and to
wear a thick veil. But in utter darkness
she can see so as to read and write with per-
fect ease.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS.

	The following extract from the “Congres-
sional Record,” of Feb. 17th, will be inter-
esting to those who have not read it before.
	“Mr. Cannon, of Utah. I present a me-
morial of the Legislative Assembly of Utah
Territory, asking for a commission of inves-
tigation to be sent to Utah to inquire into
all alleged abuses in affairs there. I ask
that the memorial be read.
	The memorial was read as follows:
	We, your Memorialists, the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, respect-
fully represent that, whereas a large majori-
ty of the people of this Territory are accus-
ed of disloyalty, insubordination, and other
violations of the Constitution, and laws of
the United States; and, whereas these ac-
cusations are absolutely untrue, and are
made with malicious intent to procure pro-
scriptive legislation by Congress.
	Therefore, being anxious that legislation,
if upon thorough investigation any should
be deemed necessary, should be such as will
conduce to the greatest good of all, we re-
spectfully and earnestly solicit your honor-
able body to send to Utah a commission of
investigation, with instructions to inquire
into all the alleged abuses in our Territorial
affairs, and with authority to send for per-
sons and papers needed in the prosecution
of their inquiries.
	And we further respectfully ask your
honorable body, for the protection of what
we deem the best interests of the whole
people of the Territory, to suspend all ac-
tion, so far as special legislation for Utah is
concerned, until such time as said commis-
sion shall have had opportunity to investi-
gate and report. And for a course so con-
ducive to wise, and consequently beneficial,
legislation action we, your memorialists,
will ever pray.
	Mr. Cannon, of Utah.—I move that the
memorial be referred to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
	Mr. Merriam.—I think it ought to go to
the Committee on the Territories.
	The Speaker.—The Chair thinks the
points presented in the memorial are judi-
cial in their character.
	Mr. Cannon, of Utah.—I desire that it
shall go to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and have made that motion.
	Mr. Merriam.—I would like a vote on
that.  I think it is very important that this
should go to the Committee on the Territo-
ries and I move to amend the motion of
the gentleman from Utah by substituting
the Committee on the Territories.
	The question being put on Mr. Merriam’s
amendment, there were—ayes 42, noes not
counted.
	So the amendment was not agreed to.
	The memorial was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and ordered to be
printed.
	Mr. Sargent of California, presented the
same memorial in the Senate, on Feb. 18th,
and it was referred to the Judiciary Com-
mittee.


EVERY-DAY Exaggerations.—“I am tired
to death.” So you have said often, and are
alive still, and in good health too. “I had
not a wink of sleep all night.” And yet
your bed-fellow heard you snore several
times. “I would not do it for the world.”
And yet you have done many things equally
bad for a penny. “We were up to our
knees in mud.” You know very well the
dirt was not over your shoes.


[Column 1]
				﻿[For the Exponent
GOVERNMENT, PEOPLE AND
		PRIVILEGES.
	A government, we understand to be a
Regulation, an Executive power; and some
form of executive power must exist among
the children of men for their well being, as
almost any regulation is better than confu-
sion. But it seems that God, Himself fa-
vors some systems over others, for we read
in Holy Writ that He wished His chosen
Israel to be guided by Judges or courts of
equity; but it appears that they could not
bear to be set so far in advance of their age
and murmured until God, in His anger, gave
them a king. They could not realize the
grandeur and vastness of the plan from
which they thus turned away, and which
was left to be developed by later generations.
The very fact that God offered it to His cho-
sen people proves it, without the testimony
of experience, better than Monarchy,
	There should be little need to advocate
Republican institutions before the people of
this country, but I should like to ask what
is a republic? Is it a government BY THE
PEOPLE? Then who are the Rulers? Judg-
ing only by the definition given of a Repub-
lic, one would say the people rule; but in
common speech, the men called, chosen and
sent by the people to manipulate the machi-
nery of government, and paid in dollars and
cents, from the people’s money, are called
“Rulers.” But according to this precedent,
the hired workman in a manufactory is the
head of the firm and the hired cook or house-
keeper, the head of the house.
	However, some maintain that the people
rule, because they have power to appoint
the way—I believe they call it “platform”
on which their paid agents shall walk; and
I am disposed to think these are right or at
least, they should be.
	Then, the next question which presents
itself is Who are the People? That is a
stupid question, for any child can tell you
that the men, women and children who live
permanently in any country, are the people
of that country.
	MEN, WOMEN and CHILDREN! each and
all three indispensible to the existence and
interests of a people! Man, the right hand,
woman, the left, and child the dear object
for which they both toil. Or, man the founda-
tion, woman the wall and child the roof of
the social superstructure, crowning both, but
resting more immediately on the wall,
woman; though neither could stand without
the support of the sturdy foundation, man.
	I am aware that this figure of speech
places the child above both parents, and that
is my intention; because the world yearly
grows riper and rises in the scale of intelli-
gence, and even as we inherit the garnered
wisdom of the past, so will the children be
richer for every step we can take in the
grand march of improvement; and just so
far as they have better land marks in life,
will they be above us. My smile also marks
the welfare and interests of the human
trinity, one and inseparable; for if roof, wall
or foundation be wanting, of what possible
value can the others be?
	He is not the greatest statesman who in-
augurates the most imposing ceremonies,
displays the most glittering pageantry or
lifts himself to the most giddy height; but
he who looks farthest beyond his own brief
day to the time when his children and his
children’s children shall engage in life’s
busy warfare; he who lays the deepest
foundation under, and rears the most un-
yielding walls around knowledge, sobriety
and progress; thus leaving behind him the

[Column 2]
brightest example of pure, unselfish patriot-
ism and liberal views.
	And the very first step in that direction
must be to live to the letter and the spirit
of our fundamental principle of “Equal
rights for all.” Let each individual find
his proper station in life by his innate ten-
dencies and powers; not by any accident of
birth or station. Keep not millions of Af-
ricans in bondage because they are not
white, nor millions of sisters in equal sub-
serviency because they are not brothers.
	The world seems to gather impetus in its
course, and reforms tread faster upon each
other than formerly. The nation has scarcely
ceased panting from the exertion of freeing
its black children from their shackles, when
lo! its daughters hold up their manacled
hands and plead to have their fetters, also,
broken. The sons cry out in direst amaze-
ment, “THESE are NOT fetters, but the costly
bracelets which we gave them, to make
them more beautiful in our eyes! They in
bondage! They are our idols, gems who
rule over us by the power of their beauty,
their grace and all their little clinging, ca-
ressing, timid ways!”
	Is this so, gentlemen? Even if it is, you
ignore such as have no beauty, are not tim-
id and clinging nor skilled to flatter; but
even passing by this grave omission and
considering only those mentioned who do
possess these qualifications, let us see, with-
out desiring to question the purity of your
convictions or the kindness of your inten-
tions, how far facts will bear out your state-
ment. Let us examine the quality of the
allegiance you pay your pretty sovereigns.
	The lady must live in this world some
fifteen or twenty years before she comes in-
to full possession of those royal prerogatives
by which she is to maintain her despotism.
And how does she fare, meanwhile? Not
just as her future subject does. He is dress-
ed in a way that does not impede his move-
ments nor occupy his attention. He is al-
lowed to live much in the open air, run,
shout, whistle, wrestle, stand on head or
heels at his own sweet will. Thus he builds
up for himself those strong muscles and
nerves, that vigor of body and mind which
in after years are his boast and the grounds
of his self-asserted SUPERIORITY.
	SHE must be dressed so that she will look
pretty, whether she is comfortable or not.
She must live mostly indoors for fear of em-
browning that fair face which is her strong-
est claim to future sovereignty.(?) She
must not take boisterous exercise nor make
a loud noise, because these are not ladylike;
but if her lungs are weak, her muscles feeble
or her information concerning the common
objects of nature and art very limited, so
much gained, because all these ARE lady-
like.
	What exercise she does take, must be in
picking up things after her brother, making
his bed, darning his stockings or cooking his
dinner, besides doing all these things for
herself; and although he is too young to ap-
preciate and reciprocate her little services,
trust me, he is not too young to revel in his
freedom and secretly, if not openly despise
her—as all free creatures do confined ones—
for her imprisonment. And be sure this is
a lesson much more easily learned, than un-
learned.
	When they begin to study, he is encour-
aged, urged, almost compelled to delve
deeply into all solid sciences; not only math-
ematics and astronomy, natural history and
chemistry, but financial and political econo-
my, the laws of his country and the history,
policy and destiny of nations.
	She is expected to learn style in dress and


[Column 1]
manners, singing, dancing and a smattering
of some foreign tongue, besides the lesson
of “sweet dependence;” and so far from be-
ing urged to persue those deep and satis-
factory studies, she is ridiculed, blamed and
even persecuted if she attempts it. Then
her pampered brothers, ignoring all this,
taunt her all her days with her "intellectu-
al inferiority."
	By the time they get only started on the
stair of intellectual cultivation, she is ex-
pected, while he continues climbing, to
abandon it forever, to don those jeweled
handcuffs, bracelets, those shining badges of
slavery, ear-rings, together with the whole
bewildering array of pretty(?) things,and re-
port herself in the matrimonial MARKET. 
	The very word implies a degradation, but,
thanks to her careful education, she does
not know it; she is docile and does what is
expected of her gracefully. For the sake
of that "fellow feeling which makes us
wonderous kind," I decline to mention the
numberless tricks and arts which she is
taught and often uses to attract attention;
and look upon her again when she is "settled
in life," a wife, a mother, the idol and sov-
ereign of some poor, subjugated man's heart
and life.
	In the first place, did we not see her, we
should not recognize her as the same; be-
cause—perhaps to evince her supremacy—
she renounced her own name, at marriage,
and now wears her husband’s. However,
rather than have confusion in children’s
names, I am disposed to consent to that
sacrifice, even though, because of it, her
father gave her less of his property than he
did her brothers. He wishing to aggran-
dize his name among his fellow men.
	The portion she did inherit, by virtue of
her marriage, became her husband’s, and he
is now sole master of it—not joint owrner,
but sole owner. Now if this, were recip-
rocal—if that same ceremony placed her in
possession of his property, it might be en-
durable; but even then I fail to see any
beauty in it.
	But that is not the case. He is owner of
all during his life, and at his death, he may
give, by will, to others two thirds of all his
possessions, leaving her only one third.
And even without a will, if he die childless
his relatives may, according to law, claim
two thirds of his property even if all were
hers before marriage, or earned by her after
marraige.
	And this is another rule which works only
one way. If she die first she may not be-
queath even her one third. Some States
however, have very lately passed laws to
the effect that a wife may bequeath her
third, provided—she first obtains her HUS-
BAND'S WRITTEN CONSENT; which amounts
to simply this: The law mildly recommends
the husband to give away certain property,
just to please a departing wife.
	Then again, her body, this very conve-
nient framework of flesh, blood and bones
which she inherited at her birth by the di-
vine right of her humanity, is no longer
hers. She may not use it as she pleases,
but as he pleases; and rebellion against his
supreme will in this matter is so severely
condemned by law, that many divorces
have been granted to husbands on this com-
plaint alone. Think of it, dear sisters, your
persons are not yours but your husband’s
and so far from having exchanged your own
for theirs, they own both themselves and
you.
	But that is not the worst yet, for she is
a mother. That beloved child whose fragile
life she nourished with her own through
months of pain and suffering, and which,
possibly without one ray of sympathy, one

[Column 2]
gentle word, one expression of tender solici-
tude for her welfare, she brought into the
world—this sweet bud of promise is not her
own. 						L. L. D.
		CONTINUED IN OUR NEXT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TIGHT DRESSES.

	“Oh, I should die; why, I am so weak I
can’t hold myself up when I loosen or take
off my corsets,” said a young married
woman to us. So you think you could im-
prove upon God’s plan of constructing the
trunk of the body? He curiously adjusted
and balanced the machinery of life inside of
a framework of bones—some of them firm
others flexible—all clothed with flesh con-
taining veins, arteries and nerves. Even
the covering we call the skin is more deli-
cate and beautiful in its structure than satin
or silk. But God’s wisdom is nothing to
you! Oh, no! you know best, of course! and
therefore attempt to improve upon His
plan by putting ribs of bone and steel on the
outside of this delicate network of pulsing
veins, throbbing arteries and flashing
nerves,
	Do you not remember how the Chinese
woman swathes, and wraps, and binds up
the feet of her daughter until she is com-
paratively crippled, and in our eyes, pain-
fully deformed?
	Systematic compression of the foot or arm
will not destroy life, but cripples the arm or
foot. The vital functions of life are carried
on in the trunk of the body. The lungs,
liver, heart and stomach are vital organs.
When their vigor is impaired we are sick
or ailing; when the functions of one or more
of these organs cease we die. Compression
of these is destructive of life, just in the
ratio that it impairs the vigor of these vital
organs.
	You do not breathe naturally in a corset
or tight waist. In natural respiration the
diaphragm contracts at every inspiration,
and forces the liver, stomach and bowels
downward and outward—this outward mo-
tion, and the vigor and tone it gives to
outside muscles, you have, in a large de-
gree, for years prevented; hence, when re-
leased from steel ribs, your stomach feels
weak. At each expiration, or outward
breath, the diaphragm relaxes, and the ab-
dominal muscles contract, forcing these or-
gans back to their former position; thus
keeping these vital organs in constant and
perpetual motion. This, dear, little,
thoughtless woman, is the reason you are
weak. This is the way and why you have
torpid liver and sallow skin. This is the
reason you are debilitated, and don’t know
what to do with yourself.
	Motion and room to breathe in are neces-
sary to good digestion. You have gradu-
ally compressed the size of your waist, and
pressed these vital organs back, until they
are weak and flaccid—torpid. You are only
a burlesque on a healthy woman, who runs
over with energy, and cheerfulness, and
health.
	Repent—prove yourself by your works-
burn up your corsets. Of firm drilling
make short, loose fitting waists, high in the
neck, short on the shoulder, with long
sleeves. Place a large button every three
inches around the bottom of the waist, and
hang every skirt and pair of drawers to this
waist. Do not allow anything to be tight
enough to make a crease, or print in the
flesh. You will very soon regain vigor and
bloom.—“Journal of Health."


[Column 1]
	NOTHING is so tiresome to the busy as the
visits of the idle.

[Column 2]
MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when casos requre.
Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p.m.

MRS. CARPENTER, 
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.


			H. DINWOODEY 

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on

	FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

			Where he is prepared to do a

WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
pat of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
19 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club		-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham 
Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	34 00	
30 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club, and a superior first proof,
steel engraving of President Brigham
Young, handsomely framed, selling
price $4		-	-	-	-			48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


SUCCESS in Life.—The men who com-
mence their career under the most favorable
auspices, and the most flattering prospects
of success, do not always obtain the emi-
nence they seek. The race is not always to
the swift, nor the battle to the strong. There
is a certain ordeal which all men must un-
dergo in their passage through life; and it
is very questionable whether he succeeds
the best who commences under the most ap-
parently advantageous circumstances. There
is such a thing as a man depending too much
upon his means, and too little upon himself
—small certainties, it has been observed, are
often the ruin of man.—Jameson.


Woman's Exponent
Vol. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, April 15, 1874.		No. 22.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WHATEVER may be the result of the
Temperance Movement—the woman’s war
on whisky in different parts of the country—
the object for which it was inaugurated was
a good one, and still deserves commenda-
tion, even though its votaries may go to the
extreme in advocating it.
	A NEW York cancer doctor says that can-
cers are the result of our having been a pork
eating people; and he recommends an ab-
staining from the use of pork or lard in any
form. He also states that he never knew
of a Jew or an Indian having a cancer.
Would it not be worth while for other peo-
ple to try the experiment of adopting the
Jewish system in regard to swine?
	THE PRINCE Imperial, according to French
law, attained his majority on the l6th of
March. The day was an important one at
Chiselhurst, where the Prince and his
mother, ex-Empress Eugene reside. Im-
perialists from all parts of France attended
the festivities in celebration of the event,
numbering in all, it is estimated, over, 4,000.
The affair was considered of so much signifi-
cance that the French Government issued
orders to have those who attended,“spotted."
France should look well to her futue.
	HONORABLE CHARLES Sumner, United
States Senator from Massachusetts, died in
Washington on the 11th ult., at 2:47 p.m.
The day before, he was in his seat in the
Senate when Boutwell presented the resolu-
tions of the Massachusetts Legislature, an-
nulling its previous vote, censuring him—
Sumner. He dicd quietly, twenty-four
hours after his last appearance in the Senate
Chamber. Near the time of his expiration,
he several limes repeated to Judge Hoar, an
injunction not to let the Civil Rights bill
fail. He also seemed to regret his depar-
ture before his book was completed, saying,
“My book, my book is not finished but the
great account is closed!” His last words
were, “Tell Emerson that I love and revere
him."


VEILS.

	Alas for veils! From the tiny infant in
the nurses arms to the ancient widow in her
weeds, the whole sex is veiled. Veils an-
swer many purposes. They conceal defects;
they heighten beauty; they cover grief, and
so we see a whole race of women of every
age, style, and condition laying foundations
for diseases of the eye through an almost
needless fashion. These blinders are of
every conceivable style, from the white dot
on the child to the English crape on its grand-
mother. The best oculists give testimony
against this wholesale wearing of veils, and
we think they should make protest against
it, even at the risk of injury to their calling.
At least let the mothers of to-day look to it
that they will be held responsible, in anoth-
er generation, for suffering their little ones
to go veiled, as the matrons of a past gen-
eration were for allowing tight lacing and
all the evils which that distressing practice
entailed.


﻿EXAMPLES.

	[The EXPONENT is so essentially a family paper, a
home friend, tnat I feel it almost a duty as well as a
privilege to add my mite in my humble way. So here
is my first effort of the kind. The little anecdote has
one reccommendation at least—it is GENUINE.]
	We do not always realize the importance
of the examples we set before our children,
or the effects of the same upon their minds,
even before we think them capable of “tak-
ing notes.”
	Some time since, I became acquainted
with a family, consisting of father, mother
and three little ones. Having been brought
up in the Church, the parents had always
been accustomed to family prayer. At the
time I knew them they lived on the outside
of Utah, where, although in one of our
settlements, “Mormonism” is rather slack.
	Last summer, “Grandpa” came out from
an inside city to visit them. The son gave
way for his father to lead in prayer during
his stay of three months.
	When “Grandpa” returned home, prayer
was neglected in the little household the
first and second morning; breakfast passed
off without a word upon the subject. But,
the third morning, little Miss Bright Eyes
of five years old, could stand it no longer.
“Pa,” she said, “why don’t you pray as you
used to before Grandpa came? I do not
like to eat without praying, and if you can-
not pray I will try!” The father needed
not a second reminder.
	“Out of the mouths of babes and suck-
lings thou hast perfected praise.” 
							E.A.B.


For the EXPONENT.
	ENERGY AND FIRMNESS. 

	Energy and Firmness are traits of char-
acter that may almost be considered the
motive power of our existence. They con-
stitute the leading principle of success; with-
out them all good resolutions and beautiful
imaginary problems fall to the ground, un-
executed, and lost. Energy aids action, and
action is life, inaction is death. Energy is,
as it were, the germ that produces, or
brings forth its concomitant traits, such as
order and cleanliness; and without Firmness
where is execution? We may not question,
who has, or has not, these desirable traits of
character. Our eyes are given us to see
with; and people’s actions are as a looking
glass to their character; and if our neigh-
bors do not want us to read a chapter from
their book, the title page of which is
stamped with “fickleness and instability,”
let them measure strength with Energy and
Firmness, and spring forth to light and life, 
How natural it is for one to remark when
occasion is given, “How untidy that per-
son’s working department is!” or “How or-
derly, and cleanly, their entire surround-
ings are!” Every action depicts some one
or more traits of character. The langauge,
the voice, the gesture, the walk, &c.
	View the figure that forward propels
itself with lengthened strides, eager to get
over the measured ground—you can read
energy in the very foot-marks; such esti-
mate that time was not made to hang on
rusty hinges; they do not allow the mind to
wander on a thousand trivial things. One


having an object to accomplish, fixed and
firm in purpose, has no time to reconnoiter
through all space, and view with elaborate
exactness, and give a general detail of the
neighborhood gossip. The one who feasts
on gossip to-day, may have to fast to-mor-
row.
	Order and cleanliness are not the results of
noon-day rising from nightly slumbers.
Mortals may substitute, but it is not in their
power to render an equivalent for the bril-
liancy of the morning sun, its beauties and
freshness. Then why should we let slug-
gishness, and inactivity rob Energy and
Firmness of their power?
	The selfish one says, “I intend to take it
easy.” I would ask, at whose expense?
Surely, labor must be done; the helpless
must be provided for; even those who will
not work must eat, and somebody must
“foot the bill.”
	While Ease is dying, has not power to
draw his breath, Energy and Firmness can
dig his grave. But the drone is not needed
in the hive; and by-and-by, “The idler
shall not eat the bread of the laborer."
						I'LL TRY.


A NEW STYLE IN WOMAN’S DRESS.

	Long white trousers, for ladies are very
much worn on the Continent. These trou-
sers should be quite plain for wearing in
the day-time and in the street, but those
for evening wear should be made of fine
cambric or muslin, ornamented with em-
broidery, lace insertion or heavy rich lace
frills or flounces, according to the taste and
means of the lady herself. What could
look prettier or more modest than to see
a pretty, small trousered foot in silk stocking
and a neat sandled shoe appearing under
the skirt of a muslin dress, the ankles buried,
as it were, in several rows of the lace frills
or flounces of fine cambric or muslin trou-
sers? Surely, also, when a young lady of
eighteen or nineteen is dancing it is more
modest, as it is certainly very becoming, to
see the limbs hidden in lace-frilled trousers
of cambric than the present fashion. As I
said, this mode is very much seen on the
Continent among French, Spaniards, and
especially Russians. When at Barcelona a
few years ago I remarked that every lady
wore trousers, some plain, some richly
trimmed with lace frills or flounces, Two
or four inches of the trousers were visible,
setting off the small Spanish foot to perfec-
tion. I knew a very pretty French lady
who used to wear most becoming trousers
in the evening, which were made of fine
cambric or muslin, with rich lace frills up to
the calf of her leg and insertion between
each frill. The lace frills of her trousers
just touched the instep, but the rest of the
trousers was visible under and through the
transparent skirt of white muslin.—“Spring-
field Republican”


“Employment so certainly produces cheer-
fulness,” says Bishop Hall, “that I have
known a man come home in high spirits
from a funeral because he had the manage-
ment of it.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


REST.

Rest is not quitting
	This busy career:
Rest is the fitting
	Of self to one's sphere.

'Tis the brook's motion,
	Clear without strife:
Fleeing to ocean
	After its life.

'Tis loving and serving
	The highest and best;
'Tis onward, unswerving:
	And this is true rest.—GOETHE.


A WIFE.

	HUBERT. 		Now thou art mine!
My love, my beautiful, thou art mine own!
Henceforth the partner of my every joy,
Which sharing, thou wilt double.

	EDITH. 		Nay, my Hubert!
Thou art but envious. Am I not thy wife—
And shall I be content to share thy joys?—
In every sorrow, too, I'll have a part,
And sharing makes each less than half its weight.


﻿R. S. REPORTS.
			    ——
	From Provo, we have received cheer ing
reports of the Relief Societies of the 3rd
and 4th Wards, by Secretaries Mrs. Mary
John and Mrs. L. W. Kimball. Notwith-
standing the present hard times, these
Societies have through the blessings of God,
and their own industry and prudence, man-
aged to present ,all the while, a fair and
liberal showing of .their financial circum-
stances, and the good they are doing in
their philanthropic efforts to aid and sus-
tain those in their midst, who feel the
stings of poverty or are in any way aflict-
ed. They also exhibit strong desires to
move forward in the march of progress, and
improve in all the ways of purity and wis-
dom.
			———
	From St. Charles, Oneida Co., Idaho, Sec-
retary Mrs. Isabella W. Davis writes: Our
Society was organized August 30th 1868
with the following named sisters as officers.
Annie Laker, President,
Christina Williamsen }Counselors
Mary Jacobs
I. W. Davis, Secretary,
Elizabeth Pugmire, Treasurer.
	Besides these officers, we have at present
a Teachers quorum consisting of seventeen
members, and an appraising committee of
three. We have had no trials or serious
difficulty in our Society. We have lost three
Teachers by death, likewise our eldest mem-
ber Sister Lydia Jennings. The sisters are
improving in speaking and acquiring more
confidence in themselves.
			———
	In a brief report of the Relief Society of
Willard City, Box Elder Co., Mary Hub-
bard gives an account of the death of Mrs.
Phebe Harding, who was appointed Treas-
urer of the Society at its first organization,
which office she faithfully sustained until 
her departure by death, on the 19th ult.
She was sixty-four years of ago, had lived
a life of honor and respectability, and her
loss is deeply felt by her remaining friends.


MRS. Mary Ollenhausen, of Lexington,
the widow of a German baron, but an Ameri-
can by birth, has been engaged as Superin-
tendent of the new Training School for
Nurses at the Massachusetts General Hos-
pital. She has served as nurse both in the
Union and German armies.


[Column 1]﻿
TO THE YOUNG SISTERS IN PROVO.

	This address is prompted by a feeling of
deep interest in your welfare. Realizing
more than you possibly can at present, the
great future which is before each one of you,
I have an intense anxiety that you should,
in youth, pursue that course which will re-
sult in the greatest good to yourselves as in-
dividuals, and to all with whom you may be
associated.
	Youth is the springtime of life, and very
early those seeds are sown, either for good
or for evil, which will not only yield corres-
ponding harvests in the autumn of this
present existence, but also in the life to
come. How important then, are the fleeting
moments of childhood and youth, and how
necessary that they should be wisely em-
ployed, and with a reference to future re-
sults! Your positions in society depend
much, very much upon your own efforts and
determinations while young—either to be 
despised by the good, or to be honored and
respected by them.
	You each possess the germs of every fac-
ulty that constitutes noble, dignified and
exalted womanhood; and their develop-
ment, much, if not altogether, depends upon
your own exertions. No young ladies else-
where on earth, have so many advantages 
and good opportunities for becoming emi-
nently useful, as those of Utah; and I hum-
bly and earnestly entreat you to avail your-
selves of every privilege afforded you, that
will aid in accomplishing this great and
grand purpose. You can choose, and mark
your own destinies—either to become hon-
orable women, and co-workers in the king-
dom of God, with those whose names will be
venerated from generation to generation, or
to become tools for the adversary—go down
to your graves with dishonor, and let your
memories perish.
	In these last days, the adversary has great
power, and will entice from the path of im-
provement, all those who do not, with fixed
and noble purpose, set their faces as flint
against the pride and follies of the world.
This you cannot do, without the Spirit of God
in your hearts; to cultivate which, you are
called upon to enter into a mutual, social or-
ganization—one devised by the wisdom of
God, and which if properly entered into,
and wisely conducted, will prove of great
worth to those who wish (as every young
lady in Zion should do) to become wise and
loving wives and mothers, and active and
efficient members of society—prepared to
officiate in all womanly departments.
	Such is the object of all the Retrenchment
Associations that have been organized in
Salt Lake City; but their aims and workings
are as little understood, and as unapprecia-
ted by many who profess to be saints, as the
fulness of the gospel and its benefits are by
the people of the world abroad. Many seem
to think that these organizations and assem-
blies are only aiming to establish a plain
style of dress; but, whatever the ignorance
of some may prompt them to think, does
not change the facts as we know them—that
much good has already resulted from this
co-operation, in which many earnest women
are working in union for mutual improve-
ment for the benefit of Zion, not only re-
trenching table extravagance, and what is
ludicrous and disgusting in the fashion of
dress, but, also retrenching ignorance, the
spirit of the world, and everything else that
is opposed to noble womanhood, and pro-
gress in the path to perfection. We are
uniting our faith and works, as fellow-help-
ers with our brethren, in the great work
of salvation, and while many of our young

[Column 2]
sisters, by co-operating in their exertions in
an associated capacity, are making great im-
provement, we want the young ladies of
Provo to step forward—avail themselves of
the opportunity, and not be a whit behind
this noble class of sisters who are struggling
for physical, moral, intellectual and spiritual
progression.
	You need not fear being obliged to dress
plainer than you wish—by associating in ac-
cordance with the design of this organiza-
tion, you will get the Spirit of God, which
is the spirit of intelligence that leads into
all truth, and as you learn to cherish it,
you will understand the mind and will of
God—it will instruct you in the true princi-
ples of beauty and loveliness, and, in fulfill-
ment of the words of an ancient prophet,
you, as daughters of Zion, will become as
“polished stones,” and far more beautiful
than the devotees of worldly fashion. We
do not wish you to discard all ornament, but
we want you to possess that independence
of character that will prompt you to culti-
vate correct tastes, and each one wear what
is most becoming to her own person, and not
feel compelled to wear precisely what others
do, which many times is done at the sacri-
fice of better judgment. It is to be hoped
that none of you are so destitute of good
solid sense, as to waste that time on dress,
which should be spent in enriching and or-
namenting your hearts and minds, and en-
dowing them with all that is truly useful,
ornamental and imperishable.
	We want you to retrench in every thing
that is uncomely—whatever approaches to-
wards vulgarity in speech and manners;
and, at home and abroad, study refinement
and correct habits, for by so doing, you will
at all times be prepared to associate with
ease and self-possession, with the most re-
fined and intelligent. By meeting together
in an organized capacity, you can assist each
other in all that tends to purify, elevate and
qualify you to become useful and influential,
instead of worthless members of society—
to beautify and happify home—to be happy
yourselves, and make all happy around you,
and to honorably discharge the high duties
and responsibilities, which, as Latter-day
Saints, await you. I hope you possess en-
ergy of character sufficient to determine to
BE SOMEBODY and to DO SOMETHING—ascer.
tain the object of your birth in this momen-
tous dispensation, and prepare to accomplish
it. Never flinch from a wise purpose, neith-
er fear the insinuations and taunts which
you probably will meet from those who con-
descend to be nothing but butterflies that
gaily shine and flutter for a short period, and
then disappear forever. I trust, young la-
dies, you will so honor your organization,
that the brethren in Provo will be stimula-
ted to organize the young men and boys.
You may lead out in the right direction, but
they should not stay long in the rear.
	I am happy in recommending Mrs. M. T.
Smoot as the Superintendent of your Socie-
ty. She is truly a woman of God—has had
much experience, and her counsels and in-
structions will be in wisdom, and she will
do honor to her position as a mother to your
Association.
	May the Spirit and wisdom of the Most
High direct you in all time to come, that
you may honor Him and your own beings.
	With much love,
					ELIZA R. SNOW.


﻿A MAN in earnest finds means, or, if he
cannot find, creates them. He who deliber-
ately adopts a  great end has, by this act,
half accomplished it—has sealed the chief
barrier to success.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the EXPONENT
	GOVERNMENT, PEOPLE AND
			PRIVILEGES. 

			(CONCLUDED)
	No! even though it is an admitted fact
that a father can scarcely even understand
the height, the depth, the beauty and the
strength, the utter devotion of a mother’s
love, yet, the law, as a simple deduction
from the fact of his ownership of the
mother, gives the child to the father alone.
So, in case of separation, the father, unless
he can be proved a lunatic, a dangerous
drunkard or a felon, has the authority of
law to tear his child from its mother’s arms.
Indeed, though the two parents may have
lived as harmoniously as two doves in a nest,
the father, dying, may execute a will even
without his wife’s knowledge, giving his
child, even if unborn, to the care of a stran-
ger,and the mother has no redress. But let it
be remembered that her death and forty
wills could never disturb HIM in possession
of his child.
	This, friends, is the land of boasted equal
rights! This is the SOVEREIGNTY which
woman inherits. This is the “protection”
which the STRONG extend over the WEAK.
Allow me to say, without intending disre-
spect to any, that it reminds me of the
wolf's protection of the lamb, when he ate
it and thus placed it inside of himself out
of all danger.
	The husband absorbs the wife’s name,
person, property &c.,and then boasts of be-
ing woman’s protector. I admit that many
of them do so innocently, not knowing how
laws really stand, but it is time that they
were informed on the subject that they may
choose their course with their eyes open.
	Is not this a sorry showing for the most
liberal and enlightened government on the
earth? the nation foremost and unrivaled in
the scale of civilization?
	And there is yet another point in this
case worthy of attention.
	Could a woman consent so far to sacrifice
her conscience and her sense of honor, she
might enter into private contract with any
man, and so long as she did not bear his
name nor claim marriage, she might live with
him, rear children, possess her own prop-
erty, buy and sell, give legal deeds, make
a legal will, and more than all, possess her
own children.
	Now what has the wife to compensate her
for the loss of all these? A name; the ap-
proval of the public; things quite necessary
to happiness certainly; but are they not
dearly bought at the expense of all else
worth living for, including things more
precious than they?
	I would not for a moment be understood
to advocate any laxity in morals, for con-
science must be kept pure even if it be at
the expense of ALL else dear and precious;
but I would recommend it to the consider-
ation of those who could amend these things,
that since they make marriage a civil con-
tract, and since one civil contract is as good
as another if only as well adhered to, it
might be well to make the recognized and
honorable one a little less bitter in its
exactions.
	I do not wonder that men who are sat-
isfied with such laws should be shocked at
seeing a woman peep into a law-book or
evince any interest in political affairs. They
have good cause to dread that she might
learn the depth and extent of the degrada-
tion in which the law dooms her to live. I
remember the slave owners of the South
thought it necessry to the security of their
property that their slaves be kept in ignor-
[Column 2]
ance; and a remnant of their logic is warmed
over for use in woman’s case.
	“Keep woman to her needlework her
housework, her frills and her flounces, and if
possible, satisfy her with them, and we may
still blame her for extravagance and sneer
at her for incapacity, and she will endure it
all; but once educate her as highly as our-
selves and remove her legal disabilities, she
would become as self-conceited an dobstinate
as to think herself fully equal to us; and she
might even decline to marry on our terms.”
	Very likely, dear brothers, and all the
harm I wish you is that every maid in the
land were at this very hour in possession of
a first-class education, and were particularly
well posted on all points relating to the mat-
rimonial question. The former would place
within her reach some higher pursuit than
mere fashion-worship, and if the latter
brought every soul of them to the resolu-
tion never to marry until these laws were
so much remodeled as to make marriage
quite as advantageous to them as to you, so
much the better for you and for posterity
as well as for them.
	Some fear that giving man’s latitude to
woman would make her fractious, overbear-
ing and unwilling to be advised; but I differ.
I believe ninety-nine women out of a
hundred would consult their husbands
and accept advice in all just and reas-
onable things, for the sake of love
and respect, were such Inducements of-
fered them. And all experience teaches
that blind and forced obedience is a dry
skeleton compared with the strength and
beauty of obedience or rather agreement of
opinion and efforts obtained with the full
consent of conscience, judgment and affec-
tion.
	Set women on a true equality with your-
selves, and I venture to assert that the
frivolity and instability of which you com-
plain will speedily give place to thrift and
sagacity, foresight and sound judgment, in
addition to a happy contentment with her
lot in place of the burning sense of wrong
which an intelligent, well informed woman
must feel when seeing the honest and faith-
ful wife shorn of all those dear and proper
privileges for which the wife in all but name
cannot be deprived.
	Look at a large class of women in Utah
to-day. Your laws do not recognize them
as wives, and many have sadly mourned the
loss of their former friends’ respect. In
some cases it took all the strength of their
faith in their holy religion and their trust
in God to give them courage to endure the
scorn of the world, even though they knew
the tie that bound them in the sacred rela-
tion of wife, to be strong enough to endure
beyond the bounds of earth and time;though
they know the law which sanctioned their
nuptials to be authorized by God Himself
and as far above human law as the heavens
are above the earth.
	But your laws choose to disapprove that
heavenly law, and therefore these women
enjoy rights for which your own wives,
whom you admit to be pure and upright,
scarcely dare to hope. Even if you repeal
the rights of suffrage, they in Utah can
still buy and sell, hold and convey titles
and transact business of any kind; their
persons are their own and neither father nor
law can deprive them of their children.
	Since they honestly believe they are do-
ing right, since their consciences are pure
before the God they worship, and they have
within no gnawing conviction of guilt to
sap life at its fountain, what cause have they
to regret the loss of a name which is to them
but a name, while they hold in lieu of it
such extensive and proud privileges?
[Column 3]
	What sublime faith must law-makers
have in woman’s docility and meekness
when they expect her to live within the
bounds of laws by them manufactured, and
the code of morals by them laid down for
her, (and which differs so utterly from the
code they follow,) while they demand of her
all but life itself and the privilege of LOVING
and SERVING THEM, as the price of so doing!
	For shame! how can they ask a woman to
share their life on such terms? how dare
they advocate such accumulated injustice as
is all but sufficient to drive their daughters
to abjure marriage alltogether? I wonder
the fathers of this nation, in view of the
tremendous publicity and majority they
themselves are giving to the so-called Mor-
mons—I say I wonder they do not hasten to
give woman more of her natural rights even
if but through fear that their daughters
may be driven in very desperation to inves-
tigate the Mormon faith. And if once they
do that with pure motives, they will be al-
most certain to embrace it for itself; besides
choosing to become “seconds” for the sake of
enjoying at the same time the approval of
conscience and the unequaled joys of mother-
hood, without being robbed by law of per-
son, property, time and offspring.
	No doubt this would be to law-makers a
new, undreamed of and startling possibility;
but I would it could be squarely presented
to every influential citizen outside of Utah;
and that all might not be only startled by it,
but so thoroughly alarmed as to feel com-
pelled, if but for their own sakes, to give—
no! not GIVE but YIELD to woman what is
so justly her own—the right to stand as
man’s acknowledged equal. 		L. L. D.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are about 6,000 Mormons living in
the southern part of Idaho Territory.

	Every white man in the Indian Territory,
who marries a squaw, is given 100 acres of
land.

	THE Texas cattle crop of the present year
is estimated to have brought $8,000,000 into
the State.

	IT is said that Edward I planted the cot-
ton-shrub on the banks of the Thames about
the year 1296.

	THE numberof hares and rabbits produced
annually in Great Britain, is said to be 30,
000,000, supplying 40,000 tons of food.

	THERE are over sixty thousand Protestant
churches in the United States, and about
three thousand Roman Catholic churches.

	A CHEESE weighing 2,200 pounds,made to
order in Oneida Co. N. Y , was shipped to
London a short time ago 27,000 pounds of
milk were consumed in making it.

	BIG brains seem to produce a great varie-
ty of results. Fisk’s brain weighed fifty-
eight ounces. Daniel Webster’s weighed
but fifty-three ounces and a half. Cavier had
sixty-four ounces and a half, while Prof.
Abercrombie possessed sixty-three. Ruloff,
the murderer, who was executed at Bing-
hamton had fifty-nine ounces of brain.

	LAST year 4,000,000 acres were taken up
by homestead entries. There is yet 1,200,
000,000 acres of public land unsurveyed,
but this includes mountains, alkaline plains,
sand and sage deserts, swamp and shoal
lands, railroad grants, etc. After deducting
these, it is estimated that it will take 90
years to exhaust the good government land
in the United States.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GEEENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne. Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah
	SALT LAKE CITY, April 13. 1874.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	Stockton, Cal., is to have a street railroad
......It is said the lawyers on the Boston
School Committee voted to admit the lady
members to seats, while the clerical mem-
bers voted against them......A boiler explo-
sion at Blackburn, England, lately killed
twenty persons and severely wounded many
others......The steamer “Grace Darling,”
went ashore off the Scotch coast during the
recent gales, and fifteen of her crew were
drowned; also four men belonging to the
life-saving station, lost their lives in the at-
tempt to rescue the crew......The Legisla-
ture of Ohio has passed the bill allowing
women the right of suffrage 48 to 30. The
people will have to vote upon the question
at the next election, when, if a majority
vote in its favor it will become a law,......
The Free Medical College for women, con-
ferred the degree of M. D. upon fourteen
lady graduates, eight from New York, one
each from New Jersey, Maine, Massachu-
setts, Rhode Island, Wisconsin and Mis-
souri.


﻿SENATOR SUMNER.

	SALT LAKE CITY, March 26th 1874.
SISTER L. G. RICHARDS.
	I have now before me a picture of the
late Hon, Charles Sumner. He has been
eulogized by the American Nation, also by
the dwellers in the old world for his native
goodness, integrity, and fearless firmness in
defending every move, or measure against
injustice and wrong.
	I feel a desire to say a few words to the
readers of the EXPONENT, concerning this
great, and good, man. After the Cullom Bill,
in its modified form had passed the House
of Representatives, every effort was put
forth by the "ring,” to have the Cragin Bill,
passed in the Senate.
	I was residing in Washington at the time.
I had never met or been introduced to Mr.
Sumner; but determined to call on him and
get him enlisted on our side if possible.
On arriving at his residence, his man-ser-
vant said I could not see Mr. Sumner, that
he had positive orders to admit no one that
day, I told him, my business would admit
of no delay: he said he was sorry, but he
dared not take my card to Mr. Sumner. I
replied, ‘Then I will go in unannounced, if
you will show me the way.' He hesitated,
then said “If you dare go, I will show you.”
After being shown, I just stepped inside his
Office door. Mr. Sumner arose from his
desk with a paper in his hand, and looked—
not at all pleasant—at the intruder. I bowed
—gave my name, and told him that my busi-
ness was imperitive and I hoped he would
pardon the intrusion. His answer was
quick and sharp, “Madam I can give you
thirty seconds.” said I, ‘Thank you Sir, I
can do with fifteen’—He placed me a chair
and took out his watch; I laid my business
before him, and rose to take my leave, he
looked at me, and said, “Thank you, you
have accomplished it in fifteen seconds—
now, be seated; what are these people, the
Mormons, to you?” I told him they were
my people. “How long have you been a
Mormon?” I told him nearly twenty years.
He said, “Then you ought to know them.
I promise not only to defend them now, but
will defend them in all future time.” He
assured me that the bill would not leave the
Committee Room, that he would oppose it
to the best of his ability.
	He held his hand to me, and said, “Do
not fear for your people, that bill, will never
trouble them.” He thanked me for having


faith in him, also for persevering to see him;
and after detaining me fifteen minutes over
the fifteen seconds, he arose from his chair
and escorted me to the door.
	In conclusion, let me say, whilst the out-
side world lauds his fame, it would seem to
me to be ungrateful, to the illustrious dead,
to let his kindness to us, and our cause, be
buried in oblivion.
				ELIZABETH DAVIS.
					Fourteenth Ward.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW TEMPLE.

	The following interesting items have appeared
in the daily papers, and may not be new to
many of our readers. But feeling desirous of
preserving the account as an important link in
the history of the church, we give place to it
in our journal.
	On the 31st of March, at 12 o'clock midday, a
deposit of records, plate containing sketch of
the organization of the church, etc., was made
in the wall of the Temple at St. George. Presi-
dent B. Young deposited the box containing
the records in the place prepared at the south-
east corner of the building, and offered the
dedicatory prayer.
	There were present on the occasion, besides
President B. Young, Presidents George A.
Smith, Erastus Snow, Joseph A. Young, and
John W. Young; Elders Robert Gardener, A.
F. McDonald, Jacob Hamblin, James G. Bleak,
Henry Eyring, A. M. Cannon, Miles Romney,
assistant architect, and Edward L. Parry, chief
of the masons, and others.
	The following is the inscription engraved up-
on the silver plate and placed in the box depos-
ited, as above stated, in the foundation of the
Temple:—
		“HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
	“The Church of Jesus Christ, of Latter Day
Saints, was organized and established agreeably
to the laws of our country, by the will and
commandments of God, on the sixth of April,
1830. Which commandments were given to
Joseph Smith, Jr., who was called of God, and
ordained an Apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the
first Elder in the Church.
	“Joseph Smith, Jr., President, with his bro-
ther Hyrum, Patriarch of the whole Church,
suffered martyrdom in Carthage,  Illinois, June
27th, 1844, and the Church was driven into the
wilderness in 1846.
	“Brigham Young, President of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
		  "HIS COUNSELORS.
     "George A. Smith and Daniel H. Wells.
	   "ASSISTANT COUNSELLORS.
     "Lorenzo Snow, Brigham Young, Jr., Albert
Carrington, John W. Young and George Q.
Cannon.
		   "TWELVE APOSTLES.
	"Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, John Taylor,
Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Charles C.

[Column 2]
Rich, Erastus Snow, Franklin D. Richards,
George Q. Cannon, Brigham Young, Jr., Joseph
.F Smith and Albert Carrington.
		"PRESIDING PATRIARCH.
	"John Smith, the eldest son of the martyred
Hyrum Smith.
"FIRST SEVEN PRESIDENTS OF THE SEVENTIES.
	"Joseph Young, Levi W. Hancock, Henry
Herriman, Albert P. Rockwood, Horace S. El-
dredge, Jacob Gates and John Van Cott.
	"These seven constitute the Presiding Coun-
cil over all the Seventies. Each quorum of
Seventies has seven presidents to preside over
the quorum.
	       	       "PRESIDING BISHOP.
	"Edward Hunter, President of the Aaronic
Priesthood.
	         	"HIS COUNSELLORS.
	"Leonard W. Hardy and Jesse C. Little.
	"St. George Temple Block was dedicated,
November 9th 1871.
			"Engd. by David McKenkie."
	The following is the list of books, papers, etc.,
placed with the plate in the box, namely:—Bi-
ble, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants,
Hymn Book, Compendium, Catechism, Spen-
cer's Letters, Voice of Warning, E. R. Snow's
Poems, Orson Hyde's Tour to Jerusalem, Three
Sermons on Polygamy, Answers to Questions,
Two Volumes of Millennial Star, I and XIV,
One Volume Journal of Discourses, One copy
"Mormon" Question, One copy Plural Mar-
riage, one Volume Juvenile Instructor, One
copy Laws of Utah, A file of the Woman's
Exponent, A few numbers of Deseret News,
containing organization of the Church, One
copy of Acts of First Legislature, A few num-
bers of Ogden Junction, A few numbers of Salt
Lake Herald, One number of the Utah Posten,
Synopsis of Description of the Temple at Salt
Lake City, by Truman O. Angell, Church
Architect, Abstract of the History of Southern
Utah, by James G. Bleak, historian of the
Southern mission.


CONFERENCE.

	On the 6th inst. the fourty-fourth annual Con-
ference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints was held in this city: President
D. H. Wells, Apostles Orson Pratt, John Taylor,
Wilford Woodruff, and Albert Carrington, and
a large number of presiding Elders were present
on the stand. After the opening exercises El-
der O. Pratt delivered an able and instructive
discourse on the progress and nature of the
Kingdom of God that has been established in
these latter times. Also the necessity of con-
tinuous revelation from God to enable a people
to build up His kingdom, and do his will. Fol-
lowing Elder Pratt’s discourse, Pres. Wells
moved that the Conference adjourn till 10 a.
m. Thursday, May 7th, in the New Tabernacle,
which motion was carried unanimously.  After
an anthem by the choir, Elder Woodruff pro-
nounced the benediction.


﻿LITERARY NOTICES.

	"The Homestead," a literary journal for
women, is edited and published by Dora Dar-
moore, at Oakland, Cal. We have received No.
2 of Vol. 1, and judging from that, we should
say the journal will be lively and well edited. 
	Laura De Force Gordon's paper, the "Stock-
ton Leader," we are pleased to learn, is to be
issued daily, on and after the 1st of May, the
editor having increased her facilities, and
moved into new quarters. This little sheet is


one which bears acquaintance well, becoming
better as it grows older.
	The "Ogden Junction" is one of the best edi-
ted papers in the Rocky Mountains, always
spicy. On the 4th inst., the "Junction" moved
into the new establishment built expressly for
its accommodation, situated on Fifth St., Ogden.
	"The Crusaders," a small sheet published in
New York, appears in behalf of the crusade
against liquor. It is strongly opposed to intoxi-
cating drinks and tobacco, and—in the last
number received—advocates the use of the
“Turkish Bath.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BE READY

	Never, perhaps, has there been recorded in
the annals of history, a period when sudden
death, without violence, visited so  frequently,
unexpectedly the inhabitants of this earth,
as in this, our day. The young, the middle-
aged and the aged are alike stricken down, often
with scarce a moment's warning; the learned
and the ignorant, the great and popular among
men and those whose lives are obscure and un-
known, are all alike liable to share the same
fate.
	Should not a moments contemplation of these
facts as they are daily spread forth in bold re-
lief, be a sufficient admonition to every one,
that the present action may be the last on earth?
And with this view, should not the humblest
who have a desire to accomplish some good in
this life, "be doing" to-day, instead of dream-
ing away the present hours in deliberation of
what they intend to set about to-morrow, or at
some future time? And should not those things
which are likely to be of most importance in
the great future, be first considered, rather than
put aside for things of less moment?
	"If I could live but five years longer—if I
could even live for one year more, I could ac-
complish much that I must now leave undone,"
said a good man recently, upon his death bed.
He wanted to call his family together and bless
them, and there were other things he regretted
leaving unfinished. But it was too late.
	Just now word comes to us that Mr. Robert
L. Campbell of this city, well known as the
Superintendent of common Schools for the Ter-
ritory, and holding other public offices, passed
away from the busy scenes of this life, at four
o'clock this morning, April 11th.
	While we feel to condole with his family in
this, their hour of sad bereavement, we wish
also to state that the EXPONENT looses in Bro-
ther Campbell, a personal and valued friend.
Since its first appearance upon the broad stage
of action, he has ever been one to give encour-
agement, and evince a kindly interest in its be-
half.
	To the young daughters of the diseased, who
have lately accepted positions of public trust,
we wish to offer a few words of sisterly sympa-
thy. We would say to them, be not disheart-
ened although deprived of so able and worthy
a friend, a father so judicious and faithful. He
has left you great legacies in the education he
has given you, and the bright example of his
well spent life. Seek diligently to honor your
inheritances.
	Returning again to the subject upon which
this article was designed to be written, we will
briefly add.—Let those who feel secure to-day
leaning upon supports, be also prepared for
what may come in an hour of which they think
not— for they are, each one, liable at any mo-
ment to be left standing alone. And those who
have a work to do, be admonished not to defer
it till a more convenient season, least they be
also "too late."


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
  MRS. ABBA C. Haven, of Morgan Co., Utah,
is agent for the EXPONENT in that vicinity; and
Mrs. Julia A. Hales of Spanish Fork, for that
settlement.
  AGENTS FOR the EXPONENT, and all others
interested in its welfare and advancement, will
please bear in mind that two numbers after the
present will complete the 2nd volume; and that
volume 3 should commence with many addi
tions to the subscription list, and brighter pros-
pects than have ever yet opened before it.
   MRS. ISABELLA W. Davis, writing from St.
Charles, Bear Lake Valley, informs us that the
past winter has been the most pleasant in that
portion of country that the inhabitants have
ever known. They have had but little snow
and very little hard winds. Sabbath Schools,
Sunday,and Thursday evening meetings are all
well attended. Sister Davis also notices the
death, on the 24th ult., of Frederick Oleson of
that place, who drove a nail into his brain and
cut his throat, after which he lingered about 13
hours. The cause of the suicide is said to have
been disappointment in love affairs.
   ON THE 6th inst. the snow lay about 18 inches
deep around some of the settlements in Cache
Valley. Some of the first settlers say, the past
winter has been the most severe ever experienced
in that valley.
   BEAR LAKERS send the consoling word to
the dwellers in Cache, that if the Rail Road
only extended through their country, they
would send over some hay for the poor cattle
which are starving in Cache. They are more
accustomed to long, hard winters in Bear Lake
Valley, and were better prepared for it this time,
though it did not visit them.
   THE CITIZENS of Ogden are raising means to
lay a planked sidewalk from the Depot to the
central part of the town.
   THE RELIEF Society at Ephraim, Sanpete
Co., lately purchased a handsome Sacramental
Service for that place. It was obtained through
Bro. C. C. Asmussen, and cost $114.
   THE FIRST company of Saints for this season,
are to leave Liverpool, England, on the 6th of
May.
   THE UTAH Northern R. R. has lately receiv-
ed five new narrow guage cars; one mail and
baggage, and four flat cars. About two hundred
men, under the direction of Superintendent
Moses Thatcher, are engaged on the road, and
are doing good work. Mr. Thatcher calculates
that early in May, the track will be completed
and the trains running from Ogden to Franklin.
   A SUNDAY School Union for Weber County
was organized at a meeting held in the second
ward school house, Ogden, on the 4th of this
month. Following are the names of the offi-
cers elected:
   R. Ballantyne, President.
   David M. Stuart and Thomas Wallace, Vice-
Presidents.
   R. A. Ballantyne, Secretary and Treasurer;
   L. F. Monch, Correspondlug Secretary.
   A number of resolutions were unanimously
accepted, out of which we select the following:
   Resolved.—That the officers of this Union
are hereby constituted a Board of Directors to
transact business pertaining to the interests of
Sunday Schools in the county.
   Resolved.—That the Corresponding Secretary
shall communicate with the Territorial Sunday
School Union in relation to a history of the
Church suitable for Sunday School libraries,
also concerning a primary Catechism and other
matters.
   Resolved.—That we hold a musical festival
for all our Sunday Schools in the county, be-
tween the 15th of May and the 15th of June
next.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	No other living thing can go so slow as a
boy—on an errand.
	A barren rock—When the cradled baby
refuses to go to sleep.
	A little girl in Des Moines wants to know
why there are no “he dolls.” Sure enough
why not?
	An interesting little boy, timid when left
alone in a dark room, was overheard recently
by his mother to say in his loneliness, “Oh,
Lord, don’t let any body hurt me, and I’ll
go to church next Sunday, and give you
some money.”
	A teacher,questioning little boys about the
graduation in the scale of being, asked,
“What comes next to man?” A little shaver,
who was evidently smarting under a pre-
vious defeat, immediately distanced all
competitors by promptly shouting, “His
undershirt, ma’am.”
	A lady teacher inquired of the members
of a class of juveniles if any of them could
name the four seasons. Instantly the chubby
hand of a five-year-old was raised, and
promptly came the answer, “Pepper, salt,
vinegar, and mustard.”
	A Church deacon laid his hand upon the
shoulder of a little urchin who was playing
in the church porch, and thus addressed
him: “My son I believe the devil has hold
of you.” “I believe he has, too!” was the
urchin’s significant reply.
	“Papa will soon be- here,” said mama to
her three-year-old; “what can Georgy do to
welcome him?” And the mother glanced
at the child’s playthings, which lay scattered
in wild confusion on the carpet.
	“Make the room neat,” replied the little
one, understanding the look, and immedi-
ately beginning to gather his toys into a
basket.
	“What more can we do to welcome papa?”
asked mama, when nothing was wanting to
the neatness of the room.
	“Be happy to him when he comes,” cried
the dear little fellow, jumping up and down
with eagerness, as he watched at the win-
dow for his father's coming.
	Now, as all the dictionaries will testify,
it is very hard to give good definitions, but
did not Georgy give the very substance of a
welcome? “Be happy to him when he
comes.”
	Senator Sprague’s Boy.—one day lately
at the breakfast table Senator Sprague said
to his son, “You must understand, my boy,
that you are the son of a poor man, and will
have your own way to make in the world.
I have fifty cents in my pocket, not a cent
more; so after breakfast I think I’ll take you
out and get a boot-blacking apparatus for
you. You must learn to black your own
boots, like a poor man's son, you know.
The little fellow listened intently, then
said: "Well, papa, can't I black your boots
and save you something?” “Oh, certainly,
if you wish?” his father answered. After
breakfast the investment was made. The
next day the enterprising youngster arose
at daylight, and before anybody was up and
could interfere, had blacked every boot and
shoe in the Sprague mansion, including a
pair of his mother’s, which had been bought
recently for nineteen dollars, and which, of
course, were utterly ruined.—“Washington
Letter.”


BOOKS to mankind are as the flowers to
the bee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the EXPONENT.]
				APRIL.

Yes, April again with her sweet winsome face,
Comes forth, through the valleys grim Winter to chase;
Her light, fariy foot-steps with gladness we trace,
	As she revels the hill tops among;
She smiles on the brooklet, and lovingly dares
To laugh at the white cap the mountain peak wears,
And tune to her own sportive notions the airs
	Which the brisk, chilly, March winds have sung.

O! fair, sunny April, why hast thou not power
To wake the loved ones, who in winter's dread hour,
Have fallen asleep, like the leaflet and flower
	Thou sweeetly revivest again?
Me thinkest, in sympathy's kind, gentle tone,
Thou answereth “Such is HIS power alone,
Who lendeth of light, life and beauty, His own,
	To me and to children of men.

Thou wilt shortly remember, O frail child of earth!
I have no commission for life, death or birth:—
My power indeed! Ah! how meagre its worth,
	But for the Great Ruler on high:
Soon May with her charms and her graces will stand
Where I now appear to be Queen of the land—
And would ye regret the Wise Ruler's command?
	Like mortals, fair April must die,”
										LULA.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Observing Birthdays.—Why is not the happy
custom of observing birthdays more common?. Love
is rich in devices, and a full purse is not needed
on such occasions. Johnny will wear his new boots
the more proudly if he puts them on first the day
he is five years old. What sweeter music than Su-
san’s surprised laugh when she finds the breakfast-
room decorated with wreaths on her birthday morn-
ing? To me water-lilies will never cease to be
something more than lovely flowers; for once, upon
my birthday, years ago, I found them in my room,
the gift of a dear brother, who had obtained my fa-
vorites after a long walk and a hard row on the
pond. Ah! the fragrance of those lilies will never
perish. Will you miss regretfully the rich trimming
from your next new dress, if you deny yourself its
cost to buy a microscope, which will prove a source
of entertainment and instruction to the whole house-
hold? To keep out bad thoughts and. crush evil
tendencies, give food for good thoughts and happy
memories, and foster their growth.
	To Take Ink Stains out of Cloth—Tie a little
Cream of Tartar up in the cloth where the spot is.
Then pour on boiling water. Then untie it and put
it in the wash. It will come out clear.
	A medical writer in an English Journal says that
rheumatism and gout can be cured by the free use
of asparagus, the active principle of the plant hav-
ing the effect of neutralizing the lithic acid in the
system, which is the cause of all inflammatory
rheumatic ailments.
	To Prevent Clothes From Catching Fire.—Add
one ounce of alum to the last water used to rinse
children’s dresses, and they will be rendered so
nearly incombustible that they will not flame. Bed
curtains or other articles may be treated in the same
way. This simple precaution may save serious ac-
cidents.
	Airing Night Clothes.—It seems to me that the
only proper receptacle for a night garment of any
kind, after being worn, is a hook or nail where the
sun can shine upon it and the breezes can blow over
and under and through and through it, carrying
away whatever matter may have been absorbed
from the body during the night; that the old way of
rolling up a night-dress so tightly that it might be
used as a formidable weapon of offense or defense,
and tucking it under the pillow, or of folding it up
and putting it away in the dark, out of sight, is un-
clean and unhealthful, and should have long ago be-
come obsolete.—G. G. in the R. N. Yorker.
	Hints on House Cleaning,— All carpets do not
need to be taken up those which do not, can be
loosened at the edges, the dust brush pushed under
a piece, and a clean sweep of all the dust can be

[Column 2]
made. Wash the floor thus swept with strong
soapsuds, and spirits of turpentine after. Then
tack the carpet down. The odor is soon gone, if
you open your windows, and you can feel safe for
the summer, at least. Upholstered furniture can be
treated to the same bath, if applied with a soft,
clean cloth, and the colors will receive no injury.
But before using it, brush the cushions with a stiff
hand brush and a damp cloth, so as to take away
all the dust.
	Economical use of Nutmegs.—If a person begins
to grate a nutmeg at the stalk end, it will prove
hollow throughout; whereas the same nutmeg gra-
ted at the other end, would have proved sound and
solid to the last. This circumstance may thus be
accounted for: The center of a nutmeg consists of
a number of fibers issuing from the stalks and its
continuation through the center of the fruit, the
other ends of which fibers, though closely surround-
ed and pressed by the fruit, do not adhere to it.
When the stalk is grated away, these fibers, having
lost their hold, gradually drop out in succession, and
the hollow continues through the whole nut. By
beginning at the contrary end, the fibers above men-
tioned are grated off at their core end, with the sur-
rounding fruit, and do not drop out.
	Open Your Windows.—A house that is never
aired has every nook and corner filled with stale
odors of cooked meats, boiled vegetables, especially
cabbage and onions, which, as the weeks go by,
literally reek in their hiding-places. Who has not
wished sometimes to hang a new servant’s clothing
out of doors some frosty night until it should be
thoroughly aired? But I have seen the fine ladies
come sweeping into church with their velvets and
silks, when said velvets and silks gave unmistakable
evidence of having been housed in just such shut-
up chambers. There is death in such unaired
chambers. Better a swarm of flics or a cloud of
dust; better frost and snow in a room, than these
intolerable smells. Dear girls, the first thing in the
morning, when you arc ready to go down ‘ stairs,
throw open your windows, take apart the clothing
of your beds, and let the air blow through it as
hard as it will. There is health in such a policy.
It helps to keep away the doctors with long bills.
It helps to make your eyes sparkle, and to make
your cheeks glow, and to make others love your
presence.—Country Gentleman.
	Cloth made Water-proof.—A writer in an English
paper says:—Good Scottish tweed can be made en-
tirely impervious to rain, and, moreover, I have
learned how to make it so; and, for the benefit of
your readers I will give the recipe:
	In a bucket of soft water put half a pound of
sugar of lead, and half a pound of powdered alum;
stir this at intervals, until it becomes clear; pour it
off into another bucket, and put the garment there-
in, and let it be in for twenty-four hours, and then
hang it up to dry, without wringing it. Two of
my party—a lady and gentleman—have worn gar-
ments thus treated in the wildest storms of wind
and rain, without getting wet. The rain hangs up-
on the cloth in globules. In short, they were really
waterproof. The gentleman, a fortnight ago, walk-
ed nine miles in a storm of rain and wind, such as
you rarely see in the South; and, when he slipped
off his overcoat, his underwear was as dry as when
he put them on. This is, I think, a secret worth
knowing; for cloth, if it can be made to keep out
wet, is, in every way, better than what we know as
most water-proofs.


TEA.—the use of tea is steadily increas-
ing year by year, in Great Britain. In 1873
the amount consumed had reached one hun-
dred and thirty-two million pounds.
	IN New England only seven per cent. of all
the inhabitants above the age of ten are
unable to read or write; yet out of that
small minority of illiterate persons comes
eighty per cent. of the criminals.—"Am.
Jour. of Education."


FLOWERS.

	HAPPINESS is always a home-made arti-
cle.
	HAPPY remarks are often made by very
unhappy men.
	HE is never alone that is in the company
of noble thoughts.
	IDLENESS is hard work for those who are
not used to it, and dull work for those who
are.
	THE cultivation of pleasant associations
is, next to health, the great secret of enjoy-
ment.
	A MAN too busy to take care of his health
is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his
tools.
	PURE affection must be combined with
good sense to produce the greatest amount
of true happiness.
	CITY life forces growth, and makes men
talkative and entertaining, but it also tends
to make them artificial.
	GOOD is slow; it climbs. Evil is swift, it
descends. Why should we marvel that it
makes great progress in a short time?
	HE gives twice who gives quickly, accord-
ing to the proverb; but a gift not only given
quickly, but unexpectedly is the most wel-
come of all.
	FUN is the most conservative element of
society, and ought to be cherished and en-
couraged by all lawful means. People never
plot mischief when they are merry.
	THE sinner may offend much against oth-
ers, but he always sins most against himself,
every iniquity falling with morally-debasing
and destructive force upon his own soul.
	WHEN will people learn that education is
a composite process, not confined to books
and teachers, but made up of the varied in-
fluences of home, fortune, and early asso-
ciation?
	IN a smiling region the man of money sees
only the relations of hay, grain, and wood;
his admiration, radiant with calculation, re-
duces nature to figures, and adds up the
scenery.
	LAUGHTER is an enemy to malice, a foe to
scandal, and a friend to every virtue. It
promotes good temper, enlivens the heart,
and brightens the intellect. Let us laugh
when we can.
	TRUE generosity rises above the ordi-
nary rules of social conduct, and flows
with too full a stream to be comprehended
within the precise marks of formal precepts.
It sanctifies every passion, and adds grace
to every acquisition of the soul.
	LET everything around you as far as you
can with honesty, wear an air of prosperity,
and you will, with God's blessing on your
honest endeavors, be sure to prosper. To
secure this end, you need not be extrava-
gant, nor make such a show as will not allow
of anything being put by in the savings
bank against a "rainy day."


AN Illinois farmer, determines the age of
a horse as follows: After the horse is nine
years old a wrinkle comes on the upper
corner of the lower eye lid, and every year
thereafter he has one well defined wrinkle
for every year over nine. If for instance a
horse has three wrinkles, he is twelve years
old.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿AN OPEN LETTER.

TO ANY GIRL WHO MAY CLAIM IT.

	They tell me you are what the world calls
a flirt, and you have openly boasted of the
conquests you have made through the power
of coquetry. Pause, I beg of you; it is not
yet too late; you cannot know whither this
tendency is leading you, or you would never
have entered the path. There are many
reasons why you should pause. The fact
that you are so debasing your womanhood
proves conclusively that you never could
have known the power of a passion that has
many times made demons of angels.
	Oh! you blush. It is well; it gives hope
for the future—it tells that you are not dead
to reason and shame. Shall I tell you why
you are on the brink of terrible danger?
Does not your own heart tell you that some
time, as there enters into the heart of every
man and woman, sooner or later, a love
stronger than death and true as truth, so it
must come to you, and in your soul of souls
you must feel that only the man worthy the
admiration and love of any woman is one
that would not for an instant trifle with the
affections of another? Do you think that
the true man whom you could honor as a
husband would care to take to his embrace a
wife whose lips had been sullied by careless
and promiscuous contact with any one who
had chanced to be the favorite of the hour?
	You may plead, in extenuation of your
fault, that you were engaged to those whose
caresses you permitted, but in the several
instances referred to discovered before it
was too late that you had mistaken a pass-
ing fancy for a lifelong affection. It is no
excuse at all. Indeed, it proves you weaker
than before. You have no right to promise
yourself in marriage to a man whom you
are not sure you can love until death. These
are not to be made matters of haste; and
when you so far forget your womanly dig-
nity as to snap at any chance bait that may
be offered, to find out later that you are mis-
taken, you must not wonder that  your name
is bandied carelessly about among your mas-
culine acquaintances, and the better kind of
men begin to shun you.
	There is a difference, my young friend,
between prudishness and womanly self-re-
spect, and you will always find that any
man, high or low, pure in thought or thor-
oughly debased, will not forget the defer-
ence due to a true woman. You ought to
know instinctively that familiarity is no
evidence of manly regard, and the proffered
caress too often springs from a motive so
base that I need not name it. Guard your-
self, then, that when the time does come in
which you can truly say to any man that he
is more to you than all else, you will have
no reluctance to lay before him the history
of your past life, unspotted by the breath of
suspicion, untarnished by practices not open
to the world; and, when the time does
come, as you would have true sympathy and
happiness in the future, give each other
your confidence regarding the past; let there
be no sealed pages, no forgotten details,
whose ghostly presence will haunt you ever
after, and, if discovered, cast a shadow be-
tween you and him who has trusted you.—
Ex.


The latest precious saying is by a little
girl on the Pacific Coast. She had torn one
of her nails to the quick, and going to her
mother, while the pain filled her eyes with
tears, said holding up the wounded finger,
"Mamma, I dess I shall have to go up to
Heaven and det anozzer put on."


﻿ENCOURAGING TO WOMEN.

	It is not many decades since Charles Lamb,
that gentle and charitable soul, said: "A fe-
male poet, or female author of any kind,
ranks below an actress I think." Mrs. Som-
erville, Harriet Martineau, Mrs. Mill, Fran-
ces Power Cobb, Margaret Fuller, Mrs.
Howe—scores of women of our time are the
sufficient refutation of the unworthy sneer.
When the brilliant Fox stopped Dr. Aiken
in the street to praise his volume of essays,
and, approving one after another, was told,
"That one my sister wrote," the wit and
gallant shifted the subject, not being pre-
pared to concede to a woman any powers of
original thinking. But our ablest critic
reads George Eliot with profound respect,
bending the best powers of his mind to com-
prehend her subtle yet bold thinking.
Grave theologians and eminent casuists are
set at naught by the audacious wit of Gail
Hamilton. And teh Ithuriel's spear of a
woman's genius, touching the hideous
wrong of slavery, which was above law, re-
vealed it to its swift destruction.
	It is not two generations since the laws of
every State in the Union bore most une-
qually and unjustly upon married women in
the matter of property, of wages, of divorce,
of the custody of their children or of the
claim to their services. In at least nineteen
of these States the influence of the agita-
tion about the "woman question" has modi-
fied the statutes to absolute or approximate
justice. Moreover, wives themselves have
not only obtained admission to the bar, but
have even delivered from the bench expo-
sitions of that science in whose own words
"the very being and existence of the woman
is suspended during the overture (of mar-
riage), or entirely merged and incorporated
in that of the husband."
	Elizabeth Blackwell took her reputation
in her hand, when, twenty years ago, she
went to Europe to walk the hospitals. Fash-
ionable women feared to lose caste if they
employed her on her return, and the college
of physicians looked askance at her. But
Dr. Mary Putman comes home from Paris
with a European reputation for scholarship
and capacity, and finds confidence, admira-
tion, competence, and the professional esprit
du corps awaiting her.
	It is not twenty years since Lucretia Mott
was refused permission to preach in Federal
Street Church, Boston. We do not remem-
ber how many women preachers to-day have
congregations. But counting those who
speak from that broad Church pulpit, the
Lyceum platform, the list is not small.
	When Florence Nightingale wished to
take charge of the Female Sanitarium she
could find no opportunity of instruction in
England. Now there is a model training
school for nurses in Liverpool, which is but
the predecessor of others; while our own,
though but in their inception, give promise
of great usefulness.
	When a school of design for women was
proposed in England, a petition was present-
ed to the authorities praying that women
might not be taught, at the expense of the
Government, occupations which would take
the bread out of the mouths of the men al-
ready engaged therein. Schools of design
give sufficient employment to many women
in France, Germany, England and America
to-day.
	Eighty years ago Mary Wollstonecraft
published her "Vindication of the Rights of
Woman." It was a book laid under ban as
irreligious and immoral. Yet it consists
simply of a forcible and logical plea for the
higher education of women, an exposure of
the false sentimentality of Rosseau and

[Column 2]
Gregory, and a claim that morality should
mean the same thing in both sexes. Half
of her demand has been conceded, and the
rest, if still denied, is not denounced.
	The question of co-education and of equal
education obtains more prosperous answers
day by day. The question of wider employ-
ments is almost lost in concession. The
question of wages, though far enough from
fair solution, is debated by a whole commu-
nity instead of by a handful of needy
women. 
	The question of suffrage alone seems not
to command the public thought, and seems
only. The Churches pay a modern respect
to the capacity, intelligence and business
aptitude of women unknown before our day
The Grangers, Good Templars and other
powerful societies recognize the eligibility
of woman—“Ch. Union.”


THE SEX.

	LADY Burdett Coutts is leading the cru-
sade against cruelty to animals in England.
	THE SUPREME Judicial Court of New
Hampshire has a new clerk, a lady.
	A YOUNG lady in Vermont is six feet
seven inches high, and she isn't stuck up,
either.
	MISS Emma S. Eastman, of Worcester,
was the first lady graduate of Cornell Uni-
versity.
	THE first lady ever appointed a collector
of internal revenue is Mrs. S. N. Parker, of
the fourth Indiana district.
	MADAM Camilla Urso's first exclamation,
when she was burned in Boston, the other
day, was, “Oh; shall I never play again?”
	MRS. Sibley, of Chelsea, Mass., has in-
vented a rotary loom, doing three times the
work of an ordinary loom in one-third the
space.
	IT is said that Mrs. General Sherman is
very much opposed to round dances, and
will not permit her daughters to participate
in them.
	MISS Jewell, eldest daughter of our min-
ister at St. Petersburgh is said to have been
the prettiest skater in the rink at a recent
skating festival over there.
	MISS Annie C. Howells, sister of the edi-
itor of the "Atlantic Monthly," and for-
merly literary editor of the Chicago "Inter-
Ocean," is engaged as literary editor of the
St. Louis "Globe."
	MRS. Betsy Dodge, of McConnellsville,
O., has added to previous and liberal dona-
tions to Buchtel College, a recent gift of $1,
000 for the benefit of the Woman's Profess-
orship,
	THE wife of Mr. John L. Shorey, pub-
lisher of the "Nursery," has served on the
School Committee of Lynn for three years.
She has proved to be a very influential
member of the board. Her services have
been saticfactory to all.
	A FEMALE graduate of the medical de-
partment of the Iowa University has taken
the first prize for the best performed dissec-
tion in surgical anatomy, in a class consisting
of twenty-two young men and one other
young woman.
	MISS Lucia W. Peabody has applied to the
Massachusetts Supreme Court for a writ of
mandamus against the Boston School Board
to show cause why she should not occupy the
seat in the Board to which she has been
elected.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿DIVERSIONS.
			——
	TABLE of interest—The dinner-table.
	NOT a case of necessity—A cigar case.
	A BLUNDER BUSS—Kissing the wrong girl.
	IF you are out in a driving storm, don’t
attempt to hold the rains.
	IT is remarked that wood will last much
longer if left for the women folks to saw and
split.
	IF a tailor agrees to put braid on a coat,
does he always consider the agreement bind-
ing?
	Q.—What piece of coin is doubled by tak-
ing away its half?
	A.—A half-penny.
	WHILE witnessing a game of base ball out
West a boy was struck on the back of his
head, the bawl coming out of his mouth.
	IN Decatur, Ill., when a young lady de-
clines an offer to convey her home, he asks
permission to sit on a fence and see her go
by.
	SOME people are easily satisfied. A Ken-
tucky lady recently had her arm amputated
by two surgeons “in a manner creditable to
the profession and satisfactory to the pa-
tient.”
	"KISSES," says Sam Slick, "are like crea-
tion, because they are made out of nothing,
and very good." "They are also," says the
Galaxy, "like sermons, requiring two heads
and an application."
	A CHAP from the country, stopping at one
of the hotels, sat down to dinner. Upon the
bill of fare being handed to him by the
waiter, remarked, that he didn't care
'bout readin' now—he'd wait till after din-
ner."
	"WHAT is a more exhilarating sight,"
asks a Vermont paper, "than to see eighteen
handsome girls sliding down hill on an ox-
sled?" "Nineteen," says the experienced
editor of the Boston "Post."
	A PRETTY and well dressed young lady,
after looking at several pairs of lavender
colored gloves in a shop, lately, shocked the
assistant by asking him which pair he
thought the "lavenderest."
	AN old minister enforced the diffence of
opinion by this argument: "Now, if every-
body had been of my opinion, they would
all have wanted my old woman." One of
the deacons, who sat behind, responded,
"Yes, and if everybody was of my opinion, 
nobody would have had her." 
	A JUSTICE, better versed in law than gos-
pel, not long since married a couple in this
way: "Hold up your right hands. You sol-
emnly swear that you will perform the du-
ties of your office, jointly and severally, ac-
cording to your best skill and judgment, so
help you God. Fee, one dollar."
	 FOOLISH Questions—"Will you take this
woman to be your wedded wife?" asked an
Illinois magistrate of the masculine of a
couple who stood up before him. "Well,
squire, you must be a tarnal green hand to
ask me such a question as that ar'. Do you
think I'd be such a plaguey fool as to go to
the bar hunt, and take this ar' gal from the
quiltin' frolic, if I wasn't conscriptuously sar-
tin and determined to have her? Drive on
with your business, and don't ax foolish
questions."
	A "RUNNER" for a Milwaukee house, a
few days ago, in La Crosse, was anxious to
cross the river on the ice, but was told itwas dangerous, so he got on his hands and
knees and crawled across, hauling a skiff on
the ice to get into if the ice broke. After
he had crawled about half way across, and
was all tired and dicouraged, he heard a
noise behind him, and, thinking the ice was
breaking he got on his knees, just as a load
of wood came up behind him. The ice was
a foot thick, and some other 'runners' had
played it on him. He is searching for the
fellow who told him the ice was thin.


ANECDOTE.

	In Cincinnati they tell a little story about
Mrs. Chief-Justice Waite. About a month
before General Grant had broached Mr.
Waite’s name to the Senate, Mrs. Waite
wrote an article on cookery for the Cincin-
nati Gazette. The article was signed “Yan-
kee Cook Girl.” It was full of sound sug-
gestions on the cookery question, and replete
with good advice to housekeepers. The ar-
ticle from the “Yankee Cook Girl” attracted
so much attention that finally a rich widow-
er in Cincinnati, wrote to Sam Reed, the
editor, that he would be glad to give the
“Yankee Cook Girl” a situation—not as a
servant, but that she might preside over his
household. In fact, he offered marriage.
Mr. Reed had to answer in a paragraph that
the “Yankee Cook Girl” was not in the mar-
ket, she having obtained a situation in a
neighboring city. The people of Cincinnati
don’t know even now that the “Yankee
Cook Girl” was Mrs. Waite, the sensible and
practical wife of the new Chief Justice, and
that her new situation is to be the highest
in the land—chief mistress in Uncle Sam's
household of law and justice.


WOMEN ON SCHOOL COMMITTEES.

	The majority of the Committee on Edu-
cation in the Constitutional Convention of
Ohio have reported a provision making
women over twenty-one years of age elegi-
ble to any office under the School laws of
that State. The Cleveland Herald is enthu-
siastically in favor of the change. It says:
“The convention should adopt it. The
movement for giving woman a fair share in
the government of the school system, as
they have to bear nearly all the burdens of
its execution in detail, is spreading over
the States. Ohio should not lag behind.
There is no sense in the idea that women
are the most competent to train children in
the family and make the best teachers in
the school-room, but are not fit to sit in the
body that frames the system of education
and makes the rules for the government of
schools. The absurdity of the present sys-
tem is shown in the fact that Boards of
Education now are frequently made up of
men who have no practical acquaintance
with the science of education, some of whom
have never been inside of a public school as
teacher or pupil before sitting in the Board,
and most of whom have no children in the
public schools, while the most judicious
mother, the most efficient woman teacher,
or the woman of large experience and ripe
judgment in matters of education is exclud-
ed from a seat in the board solely because
she is a woman.”


IN the Society of Friends where intem-
perance is not a predisposing cause, one
person in 1590 is insane. In society at large,
where intemperance is added to other pre-
disposing causes common to both, one person
in 745 is insane.


FROM DENMARK.

	Elder C. G. Larson writes us from Copen-
hagen; March 6th. He says:
	All is moving on harmoniously in the
Scandinavian Mission, and the work of God
is steadily progressing. Trusting also that
every thing is well in Zion; and notwith-
standing the efforts of political combination
of the “ring” and Congress to make special
legislation for Utah, we hope that the Saints
may be wide awake to their duties, and
live their religion that the Lord may deliv-
er His people and bring them off victorious
over sin and evil and over all that are
fighting against God and His Kingdom.


﻿MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when cases requre.
	Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m. 
MRS. CARPENTER, 
			Physician and Surgeon
Office at the Townsend house, Room No. 50.
		H. DINWO0DEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF.CO-OP. CORNER,
		Where he is prepared to do a
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large-t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall he wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting.the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to this getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham- 
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
	30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-	 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time and addi-
tions can he made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


Woman's Exponent.

VOL. 2. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1874. 			NO. 23.


[Column 1]	
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE PRESS in some portions of the coun-
try, is much gratified over the fact that no
less than thirteen distinguished English
journalists have recently been elected mem-
bers of Parliament. Why should not Par-
liament as well feel gratified for the same
cause? Is not "M. P." quite as expressive
and nearly as honorable denoting Man of
the Press as Member of Parliament?
	PRESIDENT GRANT lately nominated Miss
Ada C. Sweet for Pension Agent at Chicago,
and the Senate confirmed the nomination
without the usual reference to a committee.
A gentlemanly cotemporary asks if it is not
more than probable that if women were
more frequently appointed to responsible
disbursing positions, there would be “less
stealing and plundering?” The thought is
suggested that at least there would be no
harm in experimenting in this respect, and
no danger of matters in which the puplic
generally is concerned becoming worse
through such measures being adopted.

	THE SERVANT girl problem has been
solved by Louisa M. Alcott. She advises
ladies to employ ladies instead of ignorant,
overbearing foreigners where it can be
done; and then, to treat them as equals, not
as inferiors. She says: "Now this experi-
ment is worth telling, because it has been
successfully tried with three different
women; and there are plenty more ready to
do their best in families where they can be
properly treated. Some ladies may object
to having a stranger at the table, yet it is
better to have a lady there  than an ear at the
key-hole and a tongue to gossip of family
affairs to the neighbors' girls. Some would
think that this helper would be in the way
if she sat in the parlor, but a well-bred
woman knows by instinct when to go and
when to stay. Miss S. gently vanished when
visitors came in, or if some duty kept her
there I introduced her, and so prevented
any feelings of awkwardness on the part of
guests, or that sense of exclusion which is
so hard to a social or sensitive woman."
	THERE IS no doubt that the appetite for
drink is often hereditary. The following
illustration of the fact concerning it is a 
painful one, yet may prove of interest to
many. The Pacific "Medical and Surgical
Journal" says. "A striking instance of this
kind has been recently brought to our know-
ledge. A lady, wife of the mayor of an
Atlantic city, was a confirmed inebriate, and
in spite of the most assiduous efforts made
by her husband and others to restrain and
reform her, continued to drink until her life
fell a sacrifice to the indulgence. Her grand-
mothers were both intemperate, and both 
died from drunkenness. Several of her
brothers were inebriates. She had one
child, a daughter, who exhibited in child-
hood a marked appetite for strong drink,
and who drank to intoxication whenever she
had the opportunity. The child died at the
age of six years. During her brief life she
was known to have been repeatedly drunk.
So inveterate was her appetite for liquor
that she would resort to the most cunning
tricks in order to procure it—tricks such as
would do credit to the ingenuity of an
adult." Such an appetite, though it may be
inherited, can be overcome if a person is
possessed of sufficient conscientiousness and
morality to enable him, or her, to earnestly
resist the temptation to indulge. And al-
though an individual may find it extremely
trying to leave off such a habit, which often
really belongs to nature, yet no person has
any right to cultivate or allow the same to
grow upon him, and thus transmit it to oth-
ers, who, perhaps, will be only weaker and
less able to resist the evil, than himself.


[Column 1]
		MISCELLANEOUS.

	IF the gates of heaven were suddenly to
swing open, and all mankind be asked on
equal terms to enter into the kingdom, don't
you know some people who would pause to
see what some other people were going to
do about it, and some who would refuse alto-
gether if they saw the so-and-so about to
enter?—"Boston Transcript."

	GOOD, kind, true, holy words dropped in
conversation may be little thought of, but
they are like seeds of a flower or fruitful
tree falling by the way-side, borne by some
bird afar, haply thereafter to fringe with
beauty some barren mountain side, or to
make glad some lonely wilderness.

	THE saloon keepers of Pittsburg are said
to have been panic stricken upon the appear-
ance of a band of school girls on the street
the other day. They thought the women
crusaders of the Temperance Movement
were coming upon them, and every door and
window was closed until the young ladies
had passed by. Surely, woman carries a
superior influence with her, of which she is
not at all times aware.

	A STRANGE account is published in Chi-
nese newspapers of the suicide of nine young
girls at Whampoa. They were living with
different families in the village, and seeing
how much misery the women endured from
the tyranny of their husbands, they resolved
to escape a similar fate by putting an end to 
their existence. So they met at the bank
of a river in the vicinity, and sewed their
garments together to prevent a separation,
and thus plunged into the deep.

	"WE can all earn our living, father," was
a remark made in a family by one of several
young ladies, a short time since.
	"That is right, my daughter," was the
reply of the parent; "that fact I regard as
the point of triumph in your education.
Able and willing are the two words which
when the proper occasion comes will insure
you success, and vindicate the principle that
women should be educated for business and
usefulness as well as for ornament and at-
tractiveness. Never fear to work for your
support, nor fail to encourage others in so
doing."

	SOME of the newspapers announce with
seeming delight that there are women
teachers in the Boston public schools, who
deplore the appointment of women on the
school committees, and say, "they would
rather be under the dominion of men." It
would be strange if it were not so. There
has been a parallelism, step by step, between

[Column 2]
the Anti-slavery and the Woman Suffrage
movements, and it would be strange if it
were to fail at this point. It is always the
result of a long career of subjection, that
those who have been reared under it have
to be educated into self-respect.

	MISS Maggie Knight of Holyoke, has
originated and successfully patented a square
bottom paper bag, which is without doubt
destined to supersede all other styles for the
general use of grocers and others, the in-
vention securing far greater convenience in
handling, and additional strength. Miss
Knight has further increased the value of
her discovery by inventing a machine for
folding the bags, which has also been pat-
ented, and the first large machine is now
building at the Ames Co.'s machine shop in
Chicopee. The machine is designed to do
the work of thirty girls, cutting, folding,
pasting, and drying 30,000 per day, with the
assistance of two girls as tenders. About
half a billion of the sharp-bottom bags were
made and used in this country last year.


WHAT MEN NEED WIVES FOR.

	What does a man need a wife for? It is
not merely to sweep the house, and make the
beds, and darn the socks, and cook the meals
chiefly that a man wants a wife. If this is
all, when a young man calls to see a lady,
send him into the pantry to taste the bread
and cakes she has made; send him to inspect
the needle work and bed-making; or put a
broom into her hands and send him to wit-
ness its use. Such things are important,
and the wise young men will quietly look
after them. But what the true man wants
of a wife is her companionship, sympathy
and love. The way of life has so many
dreary places in it, and man needs a com-
panion to go with him. A man is sometimes
taken with misfortune; he meets with fail-
ure and defeat; trials and temptations beset
him; and he needs somebody to stand by
and sympathize. He has some stern battles
to fight with poverty, with enemies, and
with sin, and he needs a woman, that, while
he puts his arm around her and feels that he
has something to fight for, will help him
fight; that will put her lips to his ear and
whisper words of counsel, and her hand
to his heart and impart new inspirations.
All through life, through storm and through
sunshine, through conflict and victory,
through adverse and favoring winds, man
needs a woman's love, the heart yearns for
it. A sister's or a mother's love will hardly
supply the need. Yet many seek for noth-
ing further than success in housework.
Justly enough, half of these get nothing
more. The other half, surprised beyond
measure, have gotten more than they sought.
Their wives surprise them by bringing a
nobler idea of marriage, and disclosing a
treasury of courage, sympathy and love.


The Hon. John R. Lynch, colored, is the
youngest man in the United States House of
Representatives. He was a slave, without
education, at Natches until the Union army
entered the town. He is but twenty-six
years old.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT.]
		MY TWO CHILDREN.

The low amber light fades away in the west
  O'er the verge of the hill tops afar,
And Night, in the midst of her sable crest,
  Sets the clear evening star.
Sweet silence comes down on the busy world
   Like a blessing from father to child,
And the starry glory, above us unfurled,
   Rejoices as God Himself smiled.

Faint, dewy-winged zephyrs go wandering by
   With whispers of sweet repose;
The leaves in the treetops contentedly sigh,
   And delicate Flora-bells close;
The birdlings lie folded 'neath brooding wings—
   Their bough-cradles rocked by the air—
But never a bird, though divinely it sings,
   Can as my baby-birdling be fair.

This eve, when the angel of sleep drew near,
   She nestled close into my breast;
Her sweet baby-nothing, cooed into my ear,
   Made music which mothers love best;
Soft kisses rained over lips, forehead and eyes,
   Dimpled fingers crept over my hair
With fluttering motion like bright butterflies,
   Which revel o'er flower-beds rare.

My heart was a harp and emotion the strings
   Which her fingers swept o'er with rare skill;
A harmony, perfect as angelhood sings,
   Seemed through my whole being to thrill.
So finely vibrated those harpstrings of soul,
   So exquisite was their accord,
A ripple of pain through the melody stole,
   More precious than joy's full award.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	
Sweet memories came of another dear head
   To a mother's warm bosom pressed;
Of other hands wavering over my head,
   Impelled by a sweet unrest;
Of other lips raining the blessed balm
   Of kisses upon my face;
Another sweet voice whose every tome
   In my heart found a resting place.

Deep yearning, as over a life-hope gone,
   Comes with this remembrance alway;
But 'tis wholly engulfed in the heavenly joy
   That an angel of God's perfect day
Is mine, by the passion of motherhood won,
   By love and fond memory bound,
To meet me with joy when my earth work is done,
   To be mine while duration rolls round.

I almost could hear the faint rustle of wings
   And see the star eyes of my child—
I felt the old rapture within me spring
   As it did when my first-born smiled.
To feel that loved presence for moments too brief
   And waken to find it has flown,
Accounts for that shadow and semblance of grief
   Which haunted my soul-harp's tone.

But sigh, summer leaves, to the whispering air,
   Sweet Flora-bells dreamily close,
And mother-birds, rock, in your bough-cradles fair,
   Your nestlings to balmy repose;
For I'm not bereaved, though but one brow I kiss,
   Though but one form I lull on my breast;
My sainted one whispers me measureless bliss,
   Which soothes my sick longings to rest.

Though Death stole from out my encircling arms
   My bright baby-blossom so fair,
I defy him to rifle Love's chambers so warm—
   And safely my treasure dwells there,
And sweet the communion together we hold,
   My TWO lovely children and I,
At eve, while the curtains of amber and gold
   Softly fade in the western sky.
								LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
	From Farmington, Davis Co, we receive
the following: On Wednesday, March 11th,
the Young Ladies’ Association of Farming-
ton had the pleasure of a visit from Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Mary I. Horne. All the
ward were invited to attend a meeting got-
ten up for the purpose of hearing from these
ladies. The meeting was largely attended,
the house being filled to overflowing. The
audience was extremely attentive, deeply
interested and appreciative. The speakers
were earnest; their remarks applicable, bear-
ing the impress of mighty Truth, their ex-
[Column 2]
﻿hortations soul stirring and well received,
will, without doubt, be lastingly remem-
bered. We are much obliged to the sisters,
for their visit, and can bear testimony to the
truth of the assertion that “They do good
wherever they go."
			LAURA STAYNER, Sec.
	The Secretary writes from Rockport,
Summit Co., April 16th, 1874. Our Society
was organized Sept 20th, 1873. Mrs Ann
Bryant was chosen President, Elizabeth
Vernon and Alice M. Malin her Counselors,
Charlotte Marchent Treasurer. We are but
few, our settlement being small, still we feel
well in helping to roll on the great work in
which we are engaged, in relieving the
needy and comforting the distressed, when
we have any among us. Accept our best
wishes for the success of your interesting
and valuable paper in advocating the cause
of Woman in the true sense of the word.
			SARAH STAKER, Secretary.
					TOOELE CITY.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have wished a long time, to drop you a
line to let you know that we are all alive in
Tooele; and though we do not make a big
noise, still our course is onward, and by the
help of God, we intend it shall so continue
to be. Our reports financially, this year, are
very cheering. We have a good Society
here, the Sisters are united and diligent in
every good work. We wish you, and all
lovers of truth, every success in your labors.
The EXPONENT is a splendid paper; that it
may long live to bless us with its choice
teachings and influence, is the prayer of
yours,
		MARY MEIKLEJOHN, President.
		EMILY WARBURTON, Secretary.
From HOLDEN, MILLARD CO., April 10th.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I will now endeavor to give you a brief
sketch of our fourth annual meeting, which
was held on the 20th of March. There were
present, President Thos. Callister of Fill-
more, Elders David R. Stevens, John Ellet,
Walter Stevens, and a few other brethren of
this place. Meeting opened according to
the usual form. The financial report of the
past year was read and received satisfacto-
rily by the hearers. The presiding officers,
namely: Abigail E. Stevens,President; Fan-
ny N. Johnson first, and Mary Ellet second
Counselors; Mary A Savage, Treasurer; Em-
ma J. Bennet, Secretary, and also the teach-
ers were unanimously sustained. Prest.
Callister addressed the meeting at some
length, touched upon the united order, the
fashions of the world, and the results there-
of; was well pleased with the condition of
the Society, and considered great credit due
to it. Prest. D. R. Stevens, Elders John El-
let and Wm. Stevens encouraged the Society
to press forward, and bore their testimonies
to the truth of this Work. We truly had a
time of rejoicing. A party was given in the
evening; dancing, songs, recitations &c.,
were the amusements indulged in; and
Prest. Callister returned his thanks for the
good order that was maintained. The
Committee of Arrangements, Sarah John-
son, Charlotte Badger, Ann E. Teeples.
			EMMA J. BENNET, Sec.
	FROM RICHFIELD, April 14th 1874.
	Our Society is in good condition and do-
ing well. We have lately given a couple
of parties and a concert for the purpose of
gathering means for assisting to build us a
hall. We gained forty-six dollars. Our
monthly meetings are held every Fast-day,
[Column 3]
with full attendance, and we enjoy the
Spirit of the Lord. May we ever increase
in the knowledge of the truths of the gospel.
		METTE C. PETERSON, President.
			ANE B. NELSON, Secretary.
	The following is also from Richfield.
	According to previous arrangements, some
of the young ladies of Richfield, met at the
house of Mary A. Farnsworth, on the 13th
of March, 1874, for the purpose of organiz-
ing a Retrenchment Association. The fol-
lowing officers were elected, Mrs, Mary A.
Farnsworth, President, Miss Eliza Ogiloio,
and Mrs. Christina Larson, Counselors, Mrs.
Mary Seegmiler Secretary, and Miss Jane
Baker, Treasurer. Resolved by unanimous
vote that the society hold meetings once in
two weeks and that their motto be IM-
PROVEMENT.
		MARY SEEGMILLER, Secretary.


THE BEAUTIFUL.
	Who shall describe that which appears to differ-
ent observers under different appearances? Who
shall lay down rules by which to distinguish that
which is not distinguishable by any? Who shall
define that which is undefinable? Who shall ex-
press upon paper the attributes of "the beautiful?"
A Chinese lady considers herself irresistibly charm-
ing with her deformed feet. An Indian squaw
coquettes in the finery of a red handkerchief, a
row of beads, or the varied mosaic of the tattoo.
Englishwomen have prided themselves upon their
personal appearance, arrayed in all the pompous
superfluity of hoops, high-heeled shoes, and patched
faces. Who shall call either of these tastes in ques-
tion, or decide which of them have hit upon "the
beautiful?" One man admires tall women—an-
other short: one can conceive nothing more enchant-
ing than a slender waist—with another, an embon-
point carries away the apple: some choose fair dam-
sels with blue eyes—others brunetts, with black
ones: neatness attracts some—finery, others; pretti-
ness charms that man—elegance this. In fine, it
would be a melancholy thing for the fair sex, if all
men were agreed upon "the beautiful."
	What then are the characteristics of "the beauti-
ful" in the softer sex? She should be in appearance
engaging, and have an interesting, if not a hand-
some countenance. She should be lively, without
levity—serious without melancholy; joyful, with-
out being excited to ecstacy—sad without the list-
lessness of despair. Her heart should be the de-
pository of the gentlest, yet the most fervid af-
fection—her soul, exalted by the loftiest sense of
honor and duty, yet capable of the softest exercise
of pity and benevolence. Religion should be en-
shrined in her breast, as fragrance in the rose-bud;
but the withering influence of superstition should
be unable to wither it. She should be able to
discern—and to feel—the difference between the
pure glowing of the heart towards its beneficient
Creator, and the cold formalities which custom
would substitute in its stead. In the day of pros-
perity, she should be conscious of the uncertainty
of earthly happiness; and, with the heart to which
she has linked her fate, she should encounter the
blasts of adversity, not only without repining, but
with cheerfulness. She should be a creature
breathing all the warmth of the most generous de-
votion—unable to reproach, unwilling to be offend-
ed, and cautious to avoid the possibility of giving
offence,—should be, as woman was meant to be to
man, a being allied in spirit to the angels, and feel-
ing the passions of earth only, as it were, to di-
vest them in him of their grossness, and to lead
him, insensibly, to the disinterestedness and the
purity of her own generous feelings.


THE Washington "Star" says it takes a
veteran Congressman a long time to apply a
postage stamp. All for want of practice.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿PHILANTHROPY BETTER THAN
		         PHILOSOPHY.
		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
                                         "I pray thee, then,
Write me, as one, who loves his fellow men."
						LkIGH HUNT.
	In this the enlightened nineteenth cen-,
tury when the arts and sciences have attain-
ed such unparalled perfection, and know-
ledge pours forth in such voluminous tor
ents with the great majority of mankind,
the head takes the precedence of the heart.
Men and women are judged, estimated,
weighed, according to their mental endow-
ments, their intellectual acquirement or their
capacity for business; in short the brain is
the person irrespective of the heart. Strange
indeed, when Christianity has unfurled her
banners of light, that people who profess, to
be thoroughly versed in the New Testa-
ment, so run, counter to the teachings of
the Savior in whom they implicitly belive,
and whose divine life and blameless char-
acter they take as a standard of perfect ex-
cellence. Who in all His sayings and min-
isterings among the children of men, rarely
alluded to the intellect, while He continu-
ally appealed to the heart and spirit. Who
chose for his disciples; poor, and illiterate
fishermen; and exhorted at all times, to
works of benevolence and charity. Who
proved beyond the shadow of a doubt, in
His life, His works and His sufferings, that
He loved His fellow-men. St. Paul tells us,
that though we possess all knowledge and,
all power, and have not charity it profiteth
nothing. Also that knowledge vanisheth
away but charity abideth.
	The exclusive cultivation of the intellect
and the constant process of reasoning, bring-
ing, to bear continued supplies of knowledge,
may make an accomplished scholar, a bril-
liant orator, a profound logician, or a stoi-
cal philosopher; but these advantages, or
benefits are too often gained at the expense
of the soul. Shakespeare says,
	“There are more things in heaven and earth
	Than are dreamt of, in our philosophy."
Then we cannot be too careful, that
while we cultivate the mind, we do not en-
rich it by impoverishing the heart; that we
stimulate to action the sentiments, the sym-
pathies and all those finer feelings which
prompt the little kindnesses and courtesies
that make life so pleasant and desirable—
so near akin to heaven. Let us examine
ourselves, and see what “spirit we are of"
—whether we are living for a noble pur-
pose, to benefit our fellow-men; or whether
we are lifted up in the pride of our boasted
knowledge, forgetful of that God who liveth
and speaketh still, an inspiration in the
heart to be the food of the inner life, a
spirit which communes forever; which
teaches, pleads, rebukes, comforts, does all
that is involved in, the manifold word “Par-
aclete. A well of living water springing
up continually, if we but listen to its musi-
cal flow, that we may draw from it always
afresh for every variety of circumstance,
every occasion for sympathy, and for every
thirsty heart which comes to us.
	The tastes, the feelings, the sentiments,
the affections, are more absolutely the per-
son than either intellectual attainments or
position in society; and yet we often pass
by and totally ignore the true coin, and ac-
cept the mere outside trapping, the gilding,
and by these, estimate character, whereas,
they are at best,but"fragmentary evidence."
	Smartness, shrewdness, quickness of ap-
prehension, and a tact for business—so
highly esteemed by the modern world—
are not half so valuable to a human being
[Column 2]
as a spontaneous appreciation of the beau-
tiful, and that divine influence which fills
the soul with love and gratitude; that sensi-
bility of feeling, which is able to discrimi-
nate so minutely in matters pertaining to
the heart. Sympathy is the “golden key”
which unlocks the treasures of the soul;
and this depends not upon philosophy, or
any mental training, but upon an intuitive
vividness and warmth of affection that
quickens thought and imagination, into
something unerring as instinct; a love for
ones fellow beings, that overwhelms the
bitter with the sweet, and makes justice
glow with pity, through a deeper faith and
a larger hope in God and man, with which
no reasoning or philosophy can compete, but
which stamps the true philanthropist.
	Salt Lake City March 24th. 1874.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	"SAM" said one little urchin to another—
"does your schoolmaster ever give you a
reward of merit?" "I spose he does," was
the rejoinder, "he gives me a licking every
day, and says I merit two."
	A LITTLE boy the other day was put into
long trowsers for the first time. Some one
asked him why he had changed? "Well,"
he replied "the boys made fun of me, and I
wasn't going to wear my pants at half-mast
any longer."
	A LITTLE Boston girl joyfully assured her
mother, the other day, that she had found
out where they made horses—She had "seen
a man in the shop just finishing one of them,
for he was nailing on his last foot." Not so
far wrong as some persons suppose.
	"GET out of my way! What are you good
for!" said a cross old man, to a bright-eyed
little boy who happened to stand in his way.
"Well" said the little fellow, as he stepped
one side, "I believe they make men out of
such things as we are."
	A SCHOOL-BOY, having very good-natur-
edly helped another in a difficult ciphering
lesson, was angrily questioned by the mas-
ter,—
	"Why did you work his lesson?"
	"To lessen his work," replied the young-
ster.
	A CERTAIN little five-year-old miss in Mil-
waukee is very fond of sausages. A few
nights since, as she was saying the Lord's
Prayer, she stopped as she repeated the pe-
tition, "Give us this day our daily bread?"
and asked, "Mamma, don't he give sausages,
too?"
	LITTLE Lulu was not philosophical. Two
or three hours after eating a hearty dinner
of succotash, she complained of the stom-
ach-ache. "Perhaps" suggested the mother,
"the succotash you ate is troubling you."
"Oh, no, mamma, she replied, it isn't that
—it's ever so far below the succotash."
	DISCERNING child (who has heard some
remarks made by papa): "Are you our new
nurse?"
	Nurse: "Yes, dear."
	Child: "Well, then, I'm one of those
boys who can only be managed by kindness;
so you had better get some sponge-cake and
oranges at once."


The Empress of Germany has sent to the
reading-room of the Cooper Union, New
York, forty photographs exhibiting the va-
rious carriages, instruments, and apparatus
used by the Prussian Sanatary Commission
in the war with France.


FLOWERS.

	BOOKS, like friends may be few but should
be well chosen.
	IN prosperity we need moderation; in ad-
versity, patience.
	NATURE sometimes grows men where
she grows nothing else.
	CULTIVATE the habits of industry, per-
severence, punctuality, neatness, candor and
cheerfulness.
	WHEN estimating the worth of men,
keep a guard upon your judgment, that it
be not biased by wealth nor splendor.
	PLEASURE arising from the performance
of a good act will continue as long as memo-
ry and reflection last.
	THAT state of life is most happy where
superfluities are not required and necessa-
ries are not wanting.
	KIND words make people good-natured.
Though they do not cost much, yet they
accomplish much.—Pascal.
	THERE is something in parting that softens
the heart;—it is as if we had never felt
how unutterably dear a beloved one could be,
till we are about to part for ever.
	A GOOD and safe rule to walk by is to be
severe and right in judging ourselves, and
to be very meek and charitable to our
brother.
	"LET no man deceive himself," says Pe-
trarch, "by thinking that the contagions of
the soul are less than those of the body.
They are yet greater, they sink deeper, and
come on more unexpectedly."
	MORALITY without religion is only a
kind of dead reckoning,—an endeavor to
find our place on a cloudy sea by measuring
the distance we have to run, but without
any observation of the heavenly bodies.—
Longfellow.
	It is easy in the world to live after the
world's opinion. It is easy in solitude to
live after our own. But the great man is
he, who, in the midst of the crowd, keeps,
with perfect sweetness, the independence
of his character.—Emerson.
	HOPE is itself a species of happiness, and
perhaps the chief happiness which this
world affords; but like all other pleasures
immoderately enjoyed, the excess of hope
must be expiated by pain, and expectations
improperly indulged, must end in disap-
pointment.
	WHEN we have come to understand the
reason why we live, and distinctly perceive
the end and aim of existence here on earth,
it will be a pleasant task to trace back the
path by which the Divine goodness con-
ducted us, and to observe that all was wis-
dom and love.
	YOUR true religious life consists in
standing where God has put you, and exer-
cising Christian qualities. It consists in
pity where pity is called for; in manifest-
ing patience where patience is required; in
exhibiting gentleness where gentleness is
needed.—H. W. Beecher.
	A KNIGHT in the time of Charlemagne,
finding himself on his death-bed, desired
that his hereditary enemy, over the Rhine,
might be asked to compose his epitaph.
The other wrote, "God be merciful to the
soul of Sir—von—, brave, generous,
noble in his life and in his death. I. Sir
——von——, his enemy, say these words,
and I grave them in the stone, that the
tears of his friends may with less ease ob-
literate them."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS.  EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p, m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	The late Senator Sumner was the owner
of the Bible which formerly belonged to
John Bunyan......Twenty thousand dollars
was lately cleared in two weeks by a mis-
sion fair in Boston......Dr. Edward Warren
writes that there are good opportunities for
female dentists in Egypt, as the women are
forbidden to consult with men; and there
are already three or four English woman
dentists practicing in Cairo......Carl Rosa
intends founding a "Parepa-Rosa Scholar-
ship" in this country; the proceeds to be
expended in educating American female
singers in Italy......The last portrait of
Charles Sumner was painted by Edgar Par-
ker of Boston......A treaty of extradition
has been officially proclaimed, to continue
ten years, between the United States and
Ecuador......A man in Pittston, New York,
enraged at his daughter's persistent purpose
to marry against his will, beat her so terri-
bly that she barely lived to meet and marry
her lover......A correspondent of the "Ru-
ral New Yorker," takes the singular "non
de plume" of Wild Girl......John P. Hall
was the first man in the Senate to advocate
universal freedom without regard to col-
or; a movement, to have his statue placed
in the Capitol is on foot......Mr. Rosa has
founded a scholarship in the Royal Academy
of Music, London, in memory of his wife,
Parepa Rosa......It has been incorrectly
stated that Saxe Holm is a young, unmarried
woman living in the interior of New York
State......A curious wedding recently took
place at Corvallis Oregon, the parties were
a Chinaman and an Indian woman......Lon-
don is to have a "Musical Artists' Society,"
of which one of the objects will be to give
trials and performances to the meritorious
works of the young composers......Prince
Kalakana has been elected King of the
Sandwich Islands.....Queen Victoria has re-
ceived a portrait of her new daughter-in-
law, the Grand Duchess Marie, done by Gus-
tave Richter as a present from the Empres
of Russia......The use of balloons for the
conveyance of mails is seriously proposed
by Dr. Stephans, the director of the Prus-
sian post offices.........Following are the
names of the officers elected for the Union
Pacific Railroad; Sidney Dillion, of New
York, President; Elisha Atkins of Boston,
Vice President; E. H. Rollings Treasurer
......Cincinati wholesale liquor dealers re-
port a falling off of their sales......Young
ladies carry round the contribution plates at
a fashionable church in New York; and the
treasury is said to be thus greatly benefited
......The Iowa Legislature, and also the lower
House of the Legislature of Rhode Island,
have passed acts providing for constitution-
al amendments giving women the right of
suffrage......It is stated that "Max Adeler"
is George H. Clark of the Philadelphia
"Bulletin"......Cornell University has re-
ceived portraits of Lowell and Agassiz,
painted by T. B. Carpenter, as presents
from President White......A New York pa-
per tells of a "kettle-drum," a name given
to an informal reception beginning an half
past three P. M. at which tea and cake are
the only refreshments served, which is done
chiefly by the lady of the house, herself......
The young men of Eton school proposed, in
their enthusiasm, to draw the carriage con-
taining the Duke and Duchess of Edin-
burgh from the railway station to Windsor
Castle but Queen Victoria modestly refused
to let them be the horses pro tem......Fe-
male teachers get $3.50 a week in Maine;
not enough to pay for their board and lodg-
ing.


[For the Exponent
		REFLECTIONS.

	Under the above head, thoughts on all
things may be circumscribed with which
we have to do. The education of the young,
chiefly occupies my mind. Some teachers
contend strongly that what they call gym-
nastics are of the greatest benefit to develop
and strengthen the nerves and muscles of
the young And this is certainly of use
where no better employment can be had.
But I think if there could be a piece of
land properly fenced in with each school-
house, and instead of playing marbles, gym-
nastics or any other useless amusement,
the boys and girls were allowed to have
each a light hoe or spade with which to cul-
tivate the earth, it might prove very advan-
tageous. Each having a piece of ground
allotted according to the age, to cultivate
anything he or she might choose. Choice
should be made of vegetables, plants, or
flowers which will mature in one season.
Such a plan might be pursued in a way to
encourage a love of being useful. Where-
as, jumping the rope, running races wrest-
ling and all like games are often injurious.
	And again, I believe that too many studies
are not beneficial but hurtful. Reading
writing and arithmetic are all sufficient, till
these branches are well understood. Then,
geography, grammar and elocution; and
after these, the higher branches of educa-
tion. In this way the student may become
a good scholar in a shorter time than if crowd-
ed with all these branches at once. I am
sorry to say that I have seen some boys re-
quired to study six or eight different
branches in one day. In this way only a
smattering of each is obtained and none of
them perfected.
		ELIZABETH T. HEWARD.
				DRAPER, UTAH.


UNION IS POWER.

	No fair estimate can be given of the great
good which results to a family, a community,
or a people, through a willing and intelligent
union in purpose and action, for their mutual
well-being.
	Whatever the calling or occupation of a man
may be, he needs the hearty co-operation of his
family to insure success and happiness. And
so with the Bishop of a Ward or the President
of a people.
	There are, among the Latter-day Saints, fami-
lies, associations and neighborhoods which may
be regarded as bright examples, illustrative of
the value of unity in views and action. Ob-
serve the household where the husband and
father, worthy of his position, has the entire
respect and confidence of his wife or wives and
children. How gently, cautiously yet manfully
he leads; how gracefully, orderly and harmoni-
ously they all move in following. Together


they live and labor in a sacred peace, never 
a word of fault finding is heard or a sorry face 
seen. Mark, this is where real union exists in
the household. Though this simple and brief
description of a happy family may seem too
pleasing to be generally accepted as truth, it is
nevertheless a reality that there are some such
in our midst.
	Again, consider a Society of sisters of whom 
it can be said, “They truly accomplish wonders.
Besides taking cary of the destitute and the 
sick, they have sent means to assist in bringing 
the poor Saints from foreign lands, have already
built for themselves a fine Society-Hall and
purchased for the Ward a beautiful silver Sac-
ramental service. And all this comes, of their 
being ONE in their efforts. Their President is 
like a mother, and the rest all look upon her
and: work with her as such.” This description
is, we are glad to say, not one of fancy but one
of reality.
	The Latter-day Saints as a church, and as
communities or branches,are seeking to become
united in both Heavenly and earthly things,
and though some approximate faster than others,
all should strive to fulfill0 as fast as possible, one
of the cardinal principles of the Gospel of Jesus; 
namely, to be united in faith, prayers and good-
works, here as well as hereafter.
	A people or nation thus united in their sen-
timents and in their practices, so governed by
their own consciousness of right and their own
sense of individual, as well as public interest, 
would naturally become with the blessings of
God—a self-sustaining, self-reliant power in any
land. And what could prevent such a people
from receiving the blessings of Heaven? Who
of the members of the concordant multitude,
could contemplate the noble generous lives of  
their fellow-workers, without feeling to ask God
to bestow His best gifts and richest favors upon
them? And all soliciting alike, the same di-
vine obligations, would there not be such a 
unity of faith as to call down the very bless-
ings sought?
	It will be such a people that the Lord will
delight to own and bless. For He has said 
‘Except ye are one, ye are not mine.”


A GOOD BOOK.

	"Hill's Manual" has been handed to us for
consideration, by Mr. James England of Plain
City. After a brief inspection, we can say that
we view it as one of the best books of its kind
that has ever been brought to our notice. Its
object is to enable the writer, sitting easily and
gracefully at the desk, to express thought
plainly, rapidly, elegantly and correctly; and
the great variety of subjects upon which it of-
fers information, is calculated to aid materially
in this very desirable accomplishment, as well
as in many other respects. The book may be
procured at reasonable rates from the above
named gentleman, who is agent for it; and
doubtless, all who subscribe for it, when they
come to test its real value, will consider the
price of obtaining it, so much money well
spent.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE TWENTIETH ult. was a rainy disagreea-
ble day, yet many people were out at the time
of the arrival of President Young and Party,
anxious to welcome them on their return, from
the South. The President reached home in
excellent spirits and moderate health.
	THE DISPLAY of spring hats and parasols,
gives once more a lively and cheering appear-
ance to our city; while corresponding sights and


[Column 1]
sounds in nature and the works of men, bring
a renewal of the realizing sense of blessings
which return with the bright days of vernal
spring after the long and tedious winter.
	WE LEARN from the "Mllienial Star,” of
April 7th, that at a Conference held in Bath
Hall, Sheffield, March 29th, Elder Joseph F.
Smith was sustained by a unanimous vote, as
President of the European Mission. We also
find the names of other Utah Elders who were
present, as follows; L. J. Herrick, R. T. Bur-
ton, John Clark, Joseph Birch, F. M. Lyman,
John C. Graham, R. V. Morris, R. W. Hey-
borne and James T. Little.
	NEXT THURSDAY, the 7th inst., is the day 
appointed for the opening of the adjourned
Spring Conference. As many people will doubt-
less be in from different parts of the Territory
to attend Conference, we shall look for our
friends to call on us at the Office of WOMEN'S
EXPONENT, situated on West Temple Street,
near 1st South Street, just north of the Town-
send House and nearly opposite the City Meat
Market. 
	IF THERE are residents of this city, who are
Latter-day Saints, and who did not attend the
service, in the Tabernacle last Sabbath, unless
really unable to do so they should make amends
by going there next Sunday at 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. Sisters, it will pay you to go, and to
hear and understand for yourselves what the
Servants of the Lord are teaching; and take
heed that you be not deceived by any mere
hearsay.
	AGAIN WE would invite the attention of those
concerned in floriculture, to the space we have
allotted to that interesting subject in the EX-
PONENT; and solicit contributions in relation to
flowers grown in Utah. We should be pleased
to hear oftener from our friend "Flora,” who
delights in floral pursuits, and who must have
gained valuable information on the subject,
which should be imparted for the benefit of
others of less experience.
	“DULL TIMES!" is the general exclamation
from the majority of people whom we meet
now-a-days: especially those engaged in impor-
tant financial pursuits, most of whom appear,
with all their wise management and superior
business faculties, to have worked themselves
out of money and into debt. But to those
who are disposed to “look on the bright side,”
and trust a kind Providence for all necessary
blessings, the times are not so hard after all,
and a sunny day seems to be dawning. 
	ONE MORE issue after the present will com-
plete the second volume of the EXPONENT.
Financial circumstances will not admit of our
third volume commencing with as many
or as great improvements as our ambition
might have led us to wish and anticipate.
However, we shall continue to labor cheerfully
for the good of our friends, so long as we are as
well supported and encouraged by them as we
have been heretofore: and shall endeavor to ad-
vance in the scale of improvement as fast as
circumstances and experience will open the
way.
	ON SUNDAY April 19th, a very large number
of Sabbath School children met in the Old Tab-
ernacle in this city, many of their Superinten-
dents and Teachers also being present. The
object of the meeting was to practice songs to
be sung at the Grand Sabbath School Jubilee,
soon to be given in the New Tabernacle. This
being the first public rehearsal given for the pur-
pose, it may be considered that the musical tal-
ent exhibited by a majority of the young vo-

[Column 2]
calists was very encouraging to those interest-
ed in the forthcoming Jubilee. From the ap-
pearance of the interior of the building in
which the rehearsal took place, when as many
as seats could be found for were accommodated,
it might also be inferred that when the Grand
Jubilee comes off, there will be little room for
spectators, even in the New Tabernacle, when
the City Sabbath Schools are joined by those
of the different Wards in Salt Lake County
outside of the City, and also those of Weber
and Utah counties.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CULTIVATE PURE EXPRESSIONS.

	Every word that falls from the lips of
mothers, and sisters especially, should be
pure, concise and simple; not pearls, such
as fall from the lips of princes, but sweet,
good words, that little children can gather
without fear of soil, or after-shame, or blame,
or any regrets to pain them through all their 
life.
	Children should be taught the frequent
use of good, strong, expressive words—words
that mean exactly what they should express
in their proper place.
	If a child or young person has a loose,
flung-together way of arranging words when
endeavoring to say something, he should be
made to "try again," and see if he cannot
do better.
	It is painful to listen to many girls' tlak.
They begin with "My goodness!" and in-
terlard it with "Oh's and sake's alive!" and
"so sweet!" and "so queenly!" and so many
phrases, that one is tempted to believe that
they had no training at all or else their
mothers were very foolish women.


THE SEX.
   WOMEN usually vote for the best candi-
dates, and cannot be bribed.
  THREE sisters own and operate a Maine
flouring mill, and are making money.
   MRS. Ellen M. Babb is Justice of the 
Peace and Quorum in Eastport, Me.
   MRS. Sophrona Nichols, of Corry, Pa., has
taken the prize for an essay on a medical
subject.
  THE Grand Duchess Marie, in her uniform
as honorary colonel of a Russian regimen, 
is said to be "as marital as Minerva."
  MISS Rebecca Hanna received the first
prize at the Medical School of Iowa 
State University, for the best specimen of 
anatomy.
   MDDLE. Aimee Desclee, the most refined 
artiste of the Parisian stage, the creator of
"Frou-frou," died in Paris, some days ago, 
after a long and painful illness.
   MRS. E. M. Elliot, of Mt. Pleasant, Iowa,
has been appointed Trustee of the Insane 
Hospital at Mr. Pleasant, by the Legislative 
Joint Convention of that State. 
   FLORENCE Nightingale, Harriet Marti-
neau, and many other women, have signed 
an address to Mr. Disraeli, urging his influ-
ence in favor of Woman Suffrage.
  A WEALTHY Buffalo lady of sixty has
just married her own widowed son-in-law,
and the children of the two families are now
puzzled to settle their relationship.
  MISS Phebe Cozzens filed her first case in 
the Circuit Court of St. Louis recently, as 
counsel for Mrs. Charlotte Smith, the editor
of the "Inland Monthly," against L. U.
Reavis.
  THE jewels that the Duchess of Edinburgh
brought with her to England are said to be
worth $2,500,000, and include as many as 
100 bracelets.
  MRS. Lucinda Marsh, widow of Major 
David Marsh, of Litchfield, Conn., left a 
will giving her property to trustees to divide
the income among the needy poor of that 
town.
  THE Shakers at Alfred, Maine, think of 
contributing to the Centennial Exposition,
in Philadelphia, an old lady named Lucy
Langdon Nowell, who was born on the 4th
of July, 1776.
  THE women of Greenwich, Ct., have se-
cured 1200 signatures to an appeal to the
liquor dealers to cease their business. They
do not contemplate any further effort than
the presentation of the appeal.
  MISS Ramberger is the first American lady
who has ever graduated in Dental Surgery.
She has established an office in Philadelphia,
where she intends remaining, should her
efforts be crowned with success.
  MRS. Phebe C. Bailey, who was a great
grand-daughter of John Alden and his wife
Priscilla of Mayflower times, has just died
at Dover, at the age of ninety-one, having
lived to see three generations of her de-
scendants.
  MISS Emily Faithful complains that out of
the hundreds of women seeking for situa-
tions she recently found it difficult to find
one competent to undertake the manage-
ment of a business supposed to be in their
special sphere—dressmaking.
  MRS. C. A. Winship has been the efficient
and popular superintendent of a large and
flourishing Sunday School, in Wakefield,
Mass., for many years. She has also, for
twenty years, been the earnest and devoted
teacher of a Bible class in the same school.
  A WOMAN Suffrage Convention was held
in Newark, N. J. recently. Resolutions
were adopted asking the Legislature to give
women equal civil and political rights, and
requesting Senator Frelinghuysen to recon-
sider his proposition to disfranchise the vo-
ting women of Wyoming.
  THE new Constitution of  Pennsylvania
provides that, “women of twenty-one years
and upwards shall be eligible to any office of
control or management under the school laws
of this State.” No more $80 a month to 
men and $40 a month to women who do the 
same work.


A house without children is like a lan-
tern and no candle; a garden, and no
flowers; a vine, and no grapes; a brook,
with no water gurgling and rushing in its
channel.

	THERE are some dispositions so palpably
and really superior to others, as to induce
the belief, that Nature, in her manufacture
of them, had thrown in a dash of the angel
by way of finish; while, in contradistinc-
tion, others there are, which seem to be
made up of mere sweepings and scrapings
of the manufactory.

	MAKING MISTAKES.—Prof. Liebig used to
say:—"Show me the man who makes no
mistakes, and I will prove to you that he
does nothing." It is easy enough for a sci-
entific man who publishes nothing, but only
criticises others, to escape the charge of
committing errors, and for such persons
Liebig entertained a wholesome contempt.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
	TO A YOUNG LADY FRIEND.

Dear Girl! you are just starting on in the race
	Which humanity offers to all!—
And many competitors join in the chase,
And many you'll find who will try to displace
	Your footsteps from reaching the goal.

But calmly press on, keep the goal in your view,
	You have much that will help you along—
You'll find that you'll ever have plenty to do,
If you, to yourself remain faithful and true,
	Without troubling yourself with the throng.

Look into your brain—watch its exquisite art,
	See how busy its MAKER has been!—
Search its innermost cloisters, view every part,
	And then worship the God of that scene.

The God who has form'd you—your heart and your brain,
	Which are MINES of rich wealth all you own—
To work them in wisdom, that you may retain
The gold and the jewels they richly contain,
	Adorning hereafter your crown!

Walk slowly, walk softly, walk calmly along,
	Seeking wisdom to guide and direct;
That hereafter, when mingling in life's busy throng,
It will plainly be seen to what class you belong,
	And may that be to God's own Elect.
							HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. CITY, Sept. 1878.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	A "Farmer's Wife" puts the following home
questions to the readers of the American Agricul-
turist. Attention to these little matter would
save many steps by weary feet, and the feeling
that the men and boys of the household are indif-
ferent and careless in making work, which is some-
times harder to bear than unnecessary work itself:
	Do you, after having kindled the fire, sweep
away the shavings and ashes neatly, or leave them
on or around the stove? When you bring in a
pail of water, are you careful not to spill it, or must
some one use the mop after you every time? When
you (men and boys) leave the barn yard, do you
scrape the dirt from your boots, or bring it to the
clean door steps or, what is worse into the house,
and scrape it on the nicely polished cooking stove,
that has cost an hour's hard rubbing to make
bright? Do you ever spit on the stove floors, or
carpets? Do you leave hats and overcoats in the
halls?—or do you wear them in and lay them on the
table with papers, etc., scattering hay seeds and
dust over the cloth, and its contents, making it nec-
essary to remove and replace them much oftener
than would be required, if the rules of order were
observed? Do you put your clothes in their places,
or leave them for some female member of the fam-
ily to take care of?
	I could ask many more questions of similar im-
port about door yards, gates, garden walls, fences,
tool houses, etc., but I will not intrude. I insist
that farmers' homes ought to, and might be, as
neat and beautiful as any others' if all would do
their work in the best manner, or at the earliest
opportunity, and not leave for another what they
ought to do themselves. I know that long in-
dulged habits are hard to overcome, but may I not
hope that young men will heed advice. You
would not like to have a slatternly wife; but if you
are slovenly in your habits you could not be happy
with a neat one, for she would be dissatisfied and
unhappy, and unless she were uncommonly heroic, 
you would be likely to hear of it. Perhaps you think
these things of a very small moment, but I know of
but few things that grieve and fret a woman more,
when she is weary and dispirited, than to have all
her efforts at order and neatness unappreciated;
and I know too, "more offend from want of thought
than want of feeling." So let me say to farmer's 
boys, and girls too, if you wish to have pleasant,
happy homes, be not only virtuous, but orderly, 
industrious, and neat.—"Farmer's Wife" in
"Amn Agriculturist"
	Dried Meat for Medical Puposes.—The Ameri-
can Journal of Pharmacy says:—It is prepared by

[Column 2]
Daneucy of Bordeaux by cutting fresh meat fine,
spreading upon muslin, drying rapidly in a cur-
rent of air and rubbing into a brown powder,
which is almost inodorous, and has a slightly saline
taste. It is readily taken by patients, spread
upon bread, or a teaspoonful of it mixed with a 
cupful of broth or soup, and by children, if baked
into biscuits.
	Felon on the Finger.—The following simple
prescription is recommended as a cure for the
distressing ailment: Take common rock salt, such
as is used for salting down beef or pork: dry it in
an oven; then pound it fine, and mix it with spirits
of turpentine in equal parts; put it in a rag
and wrap it round the parts affected, and, as it
gets dry put on more, and in twenty-four hours the
felon will be dead. It will do no harm to try it. 
	Benefits of Turpentine,—A writer in the Scien-
tific American says let any one who has an attack
of lock-jaw take a small quantity of spirits of tur-
pentine; warm it and pour it into the wound—no
matter what the wound is—and relief will follow in
less than one minute. Nothing better can be ap-
plied to a severe cut or bruise than cold turpentine;
it will give certain relief almost instantly. Tur-
pentine is also a sovereign remedy for croup.
Saturate a piece of flannel with it, and place the
flannel on the throat and chest, in very severe
cases from three to five drops on a lump of sugar
may be taken inwardly. Every family should have a
bottle of turpentine on hand.
	Drink and Air.—Persons with weak stomachs
should be careful about loading them with cold wa-
ter. Children are apt to use too much ice water.
It is rare that a person can drink much water at
meal time without injury. Still more harm is
done by the use of other drinks than by this natu-
ral beverage,—Some air is always entangled in the
food as it is chewed and passes to the stomach.
When people eat in great haste, much more air is
swallowed; enough often to create wind in the
stomach and seriously interfere with digestion.—
“Herald of Health.”


DIVERSIONS.
	SKY-LIGHTS.—Sun, moon and stars.
	WHAT, word is always pronounced wrong?
Wrong. 
	HOTEL-KEEPERS are people we have to
put up with. 
	WHAT has a cat that nothing else has?
Kittens. 
WHEN is a dog like a fixed doctrine?—
When it is a dog-ma. 
	A DOG well-dressed wears a collar and
pants in the summer.
	IT has been asked, When rain falls, does
it ever get up?  Of course it does;—in dew
time.
	STRANGE to say, no matter how well paid
a dentist may be, he will always look down
in the mouth.
	"I HAVE lost flesh,” said a toper to his
companion.  “No great loss,” replied, the
other, “since you have made it up in spir-
its."
	“When a fellow is too lazy to work in
this section,” writes a correspondent from a
village in Canada East, “he paints his name
over his door, and calls it a tavern, and makes
all his neighbors as lazy as himself.”
	IRISH TELESCOPE—An Irishman was one
day observing to a friend that he had a most
excellent telescope.  “Do you see yon
church,” said he, “about half a mile off?
It’s scarcely discernible; but when I look at
it through my telescope, it brings it so close
that I can hear the organ playing.”	
	﻿Irascible old man—“Conductor, why didn’t
you wake me as I asked you? Here I am,
miles beyond my station.”—Conductor—“I
did try,sir, but all I could get out of you was,
'All right, Maria; get the children their
breakfast, and I’ll be down in a minute. ”
	A TROY paper thus states a Trojan joke:
“A dentist of this city became emotionally
insane while repairing a front tooth for a
pretty woman, and kissed her. She imme-
diately went home and told her husband,
who went around that way the same eve-
ning, and borrowed $500 of the dentist on
long time and without interest.” 
	A GUARDIAN of the peace in New York
made his first essay as a ‘mounted police-
man,’ one day last week, by grasping the
horse’s tail and attempting to climb up that
way. The surgeon subsequently remarked,
that no horse ever had a finer opportunity,
or took advantage of it with such infinite
scorn of the consequences.
	A MARKET girl sold a gentleman a fine fat
goose, warranting it to be young.  It turned
out, when roasted, to be unmanageably
tough.  The next day the gentleman said
to the market girl, “That goose which you
sold me for a young one was very old.”—
“Certainly not,” said the girl “don’t you
call me young?”—“Yes.”—“Well I am but
nineteen, and I heard mother say often, that
that goose was six weeks younger than me.”
	A MAN was brought up by a farmer, and
accused of stealing some ducks. The farmer
said he should know them anywhere, and
went on to describe their peculiarity.
“Why,” said the magistrate, “they can’t be
such a very rare breed! I have some like
them in my yard.”  “That’s very likely,
your honor,” said the farmer; “these are
not the only ducks of the same sort I have
had stolen lately!”
	“DEAR old Aunt Mary,” said a school
girl, “don’t see very well, and last Sunday
she was buzzing around getting ready for
church, looking for umbrella, specs, over-
shoes, and last but not least her prayer book.
The latter she thought she secured by grab-
bing something off her bureau at the last
moment, but when she got to church it
proved to be my music box, and the old
lady, in trying to find her place in this un-
common book of prayer, touched the spring
and it went off in fine style to the tune of
“O Jim Along, Jim Along Josey.”
	THE following is the verdict of a negro
jury: “We, de undersigned, bein' a Koro-
ner’s jury to sit on de body of de nigger,
Sambo, now done dead and gone afore us,
hab been sittin’ on de said nigger aforesaid,
and find dat de same did on de night of de
fourteenth of November come to def by
fallin’ from de bridge ober de riber in de said
riber and brokin his neck, where we'find he
'was subsequently drowned and afterwards
washed to do riber side, whar we suppose
he was froze to def.”
	ONE night a judge, a military officer, and
a priest, all applied for lodging at an inn
where there was but one spare bed, and the
landlord was called upon to decide which
had the best claim of the three.  “I have
lain fifteen years in the garrison at B.,”
said the officer.  “I have sat as judge twenty
years in R.,” said the judge.  “With your
leave, gentlemen, I have stood in the min-
istry twenty-five years at N.,” said the
priest. “That settles the dispute,” said the
landlord. “You, Mr. Captain, have lain fif-
teen years you, Mr. Judge, have sat twenty
years but the aged pastor has stood fivc-
and-twenty years, so he has the best right
to the bed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
			S. L. City, April 9th, 1874.
DEAR SISTER L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
	Permit me to offer a few of my reflections
through the EXPONENT. My mind has
been much exercised in regard to the youth
of this our people. I had supposed that our
children would naturally grow up in the
faith of the Gospel, and believe it as firmly
as do their parents. Perhaps some do. But
many that I meet with, evince a spirit quite
the reverse. It gives me pain to see this in
children of good, kind, heavenly-minded
parents, who have, many of them, left their
homes, friends, native land, everything on
earth that was dear to them, and come to
this far off desert country, braved the storms
of persecution, poverty and privation, some
almost starvation, for the sake of this Gos-
pel—which is the power of God unto salva-
tion to every one who believes and is exer-
cised thereby—that they might raise up a
posterity who would keep the command-
ments of God. When we find so many go-
ing far astray, and even joining themselves
to unbelievers and persecuters, thus cutting
themselves off from all the privileges and
blessings of the Gospel, it is enough to
grieve the heart and cause many bitter re-
flections. Some months ago, I dreamed I
stood by a stream of water. It looked bright
and beautiful on the surface, but had a deep,
dark, and strong undercurrent. Many
young and beautiful maidens, were sporting
beside this stream, and a serpent lay watch-
ing their movements with apparent pleas-
ure Some of the young girls, regardless of
the cries and entreaties of their friends,
would jump into the water, which, assum-
ing a serpentine course and a swift current,
dashed them from side to side, and hurried
them on to sudden destruction. Others
more wise listened to the admonitions of
their friends, and were saved from the aw-
ful consequences. Of late, I am much
pleased with the efforts that are being made
for the benefit of the rising generation.
Already we can see great good resulting
from them, and let us be encouraged.
Mothers, sisters, let us unite our efforts in
this good work, that we may yet rejoice in
seeing our children growing up in the fear
of the Lord, becoming useful ornaments in
society.				R. C. A.
		SPRINGVILLE, April 8th, 1874.
	My feelings of gratitude and love to God,
for the Gospel made known through the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith, are truly a source of
continual pleasure. I am satisfied; for my
eyes have seen and my ears heard, and I
know the Gospel harmonizes with the Scrip-
tures, fulfills many of the prophecies and
gives us just conceptions of our Father in
Heaven. It contains the most glorious prin-
ciples for a future state of existence, it ele-
vates our ideas, it plainly shows us the du-
ties of a Saint, and though many of our
friends may reject the truth, the time will
come when their eyes will be opened to a
sense of their folly. If the ways of truth
were ever evil spoken of, now is the time.
The language of the apostle is very compre-
hensive; we have truce-breakers, false ac-
cusers of the Saints and the revelations
which God has given for our guidance.
What are they working at in Congress? Is
there no one to attend to the people's cause
and administer righteous laws? Yes, one
of the anointed of the Lord is there, and
some that the Lord is working through, but
they cannot see it. May the great Jehovah
inspire our hearts with wisdom sufficient to
lead the young and tender branches, the
[Column 2]
gems that He has given us to watch over,
with love and kindness; teaching them to
respect those that have been appointed to
lead them in the ways of truth. May we,
my sisters, as mothers, be moved by influ-
ences pleasant as the dew of Heaven, gentle
as angels' ministerings, to extend the guid-
ing hand of love to those who may seek our
aid. Those who would be happy, had best
not inquire too curiously into the doings of
their neighbors, but ever find some useful
business for themselves.
				HANNAH HARRISON.
		SMITHFIELD, April 22nd. 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	At one of our Fast Meetings, not long since,
when there was a good, large gathering and
all seemed to feel well, I had some reflec-
tions of which I thought I would like to
pen a few for your consideration. The time
was entirely occupied with the testimonies
borne concerning the truth of the Everlast-
ing Gospel in these Latter-days. Many
brethren testified that they knew that Jos-
eph Smith was a Prophet of God—as great
a Prophet as had ever lived since the days of
the Savior. And that Brigham Young was
his lawful successor, appointed by God,
through divine revelation to lead the Church
in these the last days, As my heart burned
within me, almost to the consuming of my
flesh, with grateful responses to the truth of
those sentiments, I was led to reflect thus.
This is a great testimony we have to give.
How many of us realize its importance?
We believe in all sincerity, that our leaders
are inspired men, that they speak to us by
the testimony of Jesus, which is the spirit
of prophecy; and we believe their teach-
ings to be the word of God unto us, yet—
how many of us live by it? Jesus said, man
should not live by bread alone, but by every
word that proceeded out of the mouth of
God. Do our works and our words corres-
pond? In many instances I fear not. How
about the little things, the Word of Wis-
dom for instance, which is adapted to the
"weakest of those who are worthy to be
called Saints?" Did not President Young
a few years ago, in warning the people, say
that this was to be no longer trifled with?
That he could say to no one, that this law
might be broken unless they were willing
to lose the blessings promised to the faith-
ful? How many of us fail even in these
simple things? And how and when shall
we be prepared for the great things which
the Lord has in store for His faithful Saints
—which He is waiting and willing to pour
out upon us, were we but willing and able to
receive them? My beloved sisters let us
strive to live by every word of God, and
have faith in Jesus; so shall we receive
great blessings, and wisdom through which
we may become heirs of Salvation. May
union increase in Israel, and may all who
seek to work righteousness, have power to
stand, that they be not overcome. And for
you, dear Editor, may the Spirit of God
actuate you continually, and assist you in
all your wise efforts.
						S. K. G.


THE Ailanthus, or more properly the Ai-
lantus tree is declared to be poisonous by
Mr. S. Melvin of Oswego, N. Y. About ten
years ago, in the month of August, he cut
down and trimmed an Ailantus tree when
in full bloom and in consequence of its pois-
onous effects he suffered from head to foot,
his face being so badly swollen as to close
his eyes.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE British Empire, in area comprises
about one-third of the surface of the globe.
	MARSHALL Serrano, Presiderit of the Span-  
ish Republic, is to receive a salary of $100,
000.  
	HOLLAND has only 3,500,000 inhabitants
yet owns $160,000,000 of American securi-
ties.
	THE new Encyclopedia Britannica, now
in course of preparation, it is said will cost one
million dollars.
	BEFORE the war in Georgia an able-bodied
negro used to cost $1,200 now you can 
lease a convict for five years for $55.
	THE new city directory of St. Louis,
just published, puts the present population
of that town at 473,560 souls.
	TWO years ago, two barrels of live perch
were placed in the pond at Tisbury, Mass.,
which have increased so that now seining is
profitable.
	KING Koffee’s umbrella, which is as
large as a tent, is among the spoils of the
Ashantee war, and will be exhibited at a
public museum in London.
	AT London, recently the University boat 
race was won by the Cambrige crew by two
lengths. Distance, four miles, two fur-
longs—time, twenty-three minutes, thirty-
five seconds.
	THE Iowa Legislature has enacted a law
against baggage smashers. The penalty for
recklessly injuring baggage is a fine of not
less than $50, nor more than $100, and im-
prisonment not exceeding thirty days.
	ACCORDING to an entry found in the Re- 
cord Office, King Edward III paid $16 on
the 1st of March 1360, toward the ransom
of the poet Chaucer, who had been taken
prisoner in the war with France in 1359-60.
	A NEW HYGROSCOPE:—An instrument
for indicating a decided change in the rela-
tive quantity of moisture of the atmosphere 
is now used in Paris, consisting of strips of
paper which have been dipped in a cobalt salt 
solution, containing common salt and gum 
arabic. In dry weather this prepared paper
is blue, and in wet it is rose red.
	THE Janesville, Tenn., Tribune, says:—.
Rev. Thomas Smith, of the Baptist church,
who lives at Parrotsville, in Cooke County,
Tenn., is 101 years old. He still preaches
and rides horse-back to his appointments.
He was the pastor of one church forty-four
years, remembers the battle of Brandywine;
quotes Scripture rapidly; memory unim-
paired; never missed a meal on account of 
sickness: never took but three doses of
medicine; was always temperate; enjoys 
good health, eats heartily, reads without 
glasses and never did use them. He is
probably the oldest preacher in America.
	THE large clock at the English Parlia- 
ment House is the largest in the world.
The four dials of this clock are twenty two 
feet in diameter. Every half minute the
point of the minute hand moves nearly seven
inches. The clock will go eight and a half 
days, but only strikes for seven and a half,
thus indicating any neglect in winding it
up. It strikes quarter hours, and the mere
winding up of the striking mechanism takes
two hours. The pendulum is fifteen feet
long; the wheels are of cast iron, the hour
bell is eight feet high and nine feet in di-
ametor, weighing nearly fifteen tons, and
the hammer alone weighs more than four
hundred pounds.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		FLORAL HINTS.

	Ladies who cultivate flowers in the house
will find great benefit to the plants by
spreading moss over the earth in flower pots.
This keeps the water from evaporating, and
the temperature more uniform. Tea-grounds
are often used for the same purpose. Where
a flower-pot sets in a saucer, with a hole in
the bottom of the pot, put a little sand in
the saucer, and cover it with moss, and you
have a simple and admirable arrangement.
	A LADY contributor writes the "Country
Gentleman" as follows:
	" I take coarse, heavy wire for foundation
and handle; then interlace with old hoop
wire made pliable by burning or heating to
a red heat; then I take young Portulaca
plants with a lump of earth attached to each,
and put them through the interstices, and
so fill the basket. The plants take kindly
to their unnatural position, and soon become
a mass of beautiful green and brilliant flow-
ers. My baskets hold nearly a half peck of
earth and look like a hanging garden. In
each I place an empty potash box, inserted
in a cavity in the earth, which I fill with
water daily, and in them place fresh flowers
as my fancy dictates. They hang in my
piazza, which is festooned and twined with
the American ivy and Morning Glories, and
no lovlier spot can well be imagined."
	THE cultivation of plants in a sleeping
room or the apartment in which the family
lives most of the time, is said to be un-
healthy. At least, any room in which sev-
eral plants are grown requires to be airy and
light. "Scribner's Monthly" has the fol-
lowing about a PLANT STAND.—The lack of
a desirable place to keep plants often pre-
vents the pleasure of raising them. They
must have light, air, and sunshine, and it is
not always convenient to devote the bright-
est window to their occupancy. If kept on
the ledges they are in danger of being
chilled on a frosty night; and it is a tax to
be compelled to move the heavy pots every
time the thermometer drops. A flower
stand of some sort that can be readily moved
from window to window, is, therefore, a
necessity. The old-fashioned wooden ones
are clumsy, heavy, and take up too much
room. The modern wire frames are pretty
and light, but one of moderate size costs ten
or twelve dollars, which is a great deal to
put in the stand when we wish to put in the
flowers.
	We saw something the other day that
seemed to serve both economy and conve-
nience. A box three feet long, and a foot
and a half wide across the bottom, and
eighteen inches deep, is made of common
pine. The sides flare out, so that at the top,
they measure from six to eight inches more
from edge to edge than at the bottom. This
box stands on four legs, with casters, and
under the bottom of the box a piece of wood
fancifully cut on the edge, (a sort of pine
valance) holds the legs firmly and symmet-
rically together. The top of the box is
nearly even with the window sill, and when
the whole is constructed it may either be
painted in colors or stained dark brown, to
match the furniture wood. The inside of
the box is better preserved from decay if
lined with zinc or tin; but it will last one
possibly two seasons without any lining at
all. Over the bottom is spread a three-inch
layer of bits of broken flower pots, and on
this is set a double row of pots, or as many
as will stand evenly on the surface. Then a
thick layer of sand is thrown over the bro-
ken pieces, and the rest of the space filled
up with earth till it is even with the top of
the flower pots. In the bed thus formed,

[Column 2]
bulbs and slips are planted between the
pots, and vines are started at the corners.
When the latter are well under way, wires
on which the vines twist, are fastened diago-
nally from corner to corner, forming a beau-
tiful green arch over what seems to be a bed
taken bodily from the garden. Sometimes
a tiny hanging basket, or an ivy growing in
water, is hung from where the wires cross
in the arch, but, even without it, there is
no appearance of bareness. A carpenter
will make the box for two dollars and a half,
and the painting and all can readily be done
at home.


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS. 

	No one can fully appreciate the true value
of a real friend, until left without one.
	Many a man thinks it’s virtue that keeps
him from stealing, when it’s only a full
stomach. One should be careful, and not
mistake potatoes for principles.
	Kate Field, writing from Spain, thinks
that Nature would do a thriving business if
she would only economize on fleas, and be-
stow the extra energy on the men of that
country.
	That was a very observing widow who
said: "The state of widowhood is inconve-
nient, for one must assume all the modesty
of a young girl without being able to feign
her ignorance."
	In Switzerland, a Society for the obser-
vance of the Sabbath as a day of rest, has
offered a prize of $200 for the best essay on
the subject of resting upon the Sabbath, con-
sidered in a hygienic point of view. The
points required to be especially discussed
are:—1. The favorable effects of rest on
Sunday on people of various ages, and their
influence on the family and the nation. 2.
Diseases which may be engendered and in-
creased by continuous work in persons who
by the nature of their calling are deprived
of this weekly recreation, as, for instance,
railroad employes, journalists, telegraph op-
erators, bakers, etc. 3. practical results
drawn from the observation of cited facts.
	Honor the Scissors.—Some people, ig-
norant of what good editing is, imagine the
getting up of selected matter the easiest
thing in the world to do, whereas it is some
of the nicest work that is done on the paper.
If they find the editor with the scissors in
hand, they are sure to say, "Eh, that is the
way you get up original matter is it?" ac-
companying their new and witty questions
with an idiotic wink or smile. The facts
are, that the interest, the morality, the va-
riety and usefulness of a paper, depend, in
no small degree, upon its selected matter,
and few men are fully capable of the position
who would not themselves be able to write
many of the articles they select. A sensi-
ble editor desires considerable selected mat-
ter, because he knows that one mind cannot
make as good a paper as five or six.—Amer-
ican newspaper Reporter.
	“The Rev. J. P. Newman, in the course
of his tour of inspection among the consu-
lates of the world, took a walk one day in
Yeddo, Japan, and passing a criminal court,
during the progress of a trial, attempted to
enter. In this he was repulsed, so he wrote
upon his card, ‘Rev. Dr. J. P. Newman,
Chaplain of United States Senate, and Spe-
cial Friend of President Grant,’ and sent it
to the authorities inside. The card was ta-
ken in with great ceremony, and soon an
answer came back, expressing the agonizing
grief of the court that there was no one
present of sufficiently high rank to receive
the visit of such an august American.”


﻿DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons lor the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City. 

MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
	Office. East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D. 
opposite Old, Constitution, Building, Main
Street, Office hours—10 a.m. to 3.p. m. 

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50

			H: DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
		storey Brick Store on

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

Where he is prepared to do a

WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers to increase the circulation of
the Exponent, and aid in promoting, the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent, of the view of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will, enable us to do:
10 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club	-	-	-	-	 $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of tho club	-	-	-	-	26 00.
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter,
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing 12x16 inches, of President Brigham 
	Young selling price $2.50		34 00
30 copies, 1 Year, with a copy to the getter.
	up of the club and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4	-	-	-	-	48.00 .
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


Woman's Exponent

VOL. 2. 				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1874					NO. 24.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ATTENTION IS called, by the Rev. Dr.
Griswold, to a marked distinction between
the ideas and practices of ancient Christians,
and many worshippers of modern times in
relation to the object of people meeting to-
gether at the House of worship. He says,
"Now, the prevalent idea is that the great
feature in public services is a carefully-pre-
pared sermon; and that all the services prior
to that, are, as it were, subordinate and pre-
paratory to the discourse from man's lips
which is to follow. Then the idea of public
service was prayer and worship. Now, with
many, the sermon is uppermost, the central
service of the sacred assembly, and all other
services preparatory to that office. Then the
Supper of the Lord (which, in apostolic
days, was always celebrated on every Lord's
Day,) was foremost and the central service.
All other services were then preparatory
to that service. Then a presbyter in the
Church of Christ was appointed "to feed"
and "to govern" the Church of God. Now,
among many, a minister of Christ must be
chiefly known as a 'preacher." Is it not
clearly evident, that in these, as in number-
less other cases, the old sentiments, the old
ways are by far the wiser and happier? Yet,
where they have been restored by the power
of the Priesthood how few have accepted
them?
	THE AMERICAN palace sleeping cars have
been lately introduced into England with
success. In this country, which might be
called one of "magnificent distances," they
are considered not so much a luxury as
an indispensable comfort. And while, seem-
ingly, everything has been arranged that
could be done for the convenience of travel-
lers on the sleeping and eating cars, we do
not believe perfection has yet been attained,
nor will it be, until such suggestions as the
following, made by a lady traveller, be at-
tended to by inventors, for the comfort of
women.—"A woman's toilet, to be satisfac-
torily performed, demands some other posi-
tion than prone upon the face. Likewise,
it is somewhat more agreeable to perform
portions of the toilet unobserved by the
multitude. Men either are not burdened
with modesty, or they have minds that soar
so far above the feminine that they give no
thought to the embarrassment attendant up-
on the method and manner of disrobing
one's self in those close quarters. A woman
carefully extinguishes herself behind the
curtains, slyly unloosens a lace, envelops
herself decorously in a large waterproof,
not daring to lay aside her chignon for fear
of a surprise, and proceeds to stow herself
away uncomfortable and depressed. The
stranger in the bunk above leisurely divests
himself of his outer garments, pulls of boots,
loosens suspenders, and bounds into bed
with graceful ease, rather enjoying the situ-
ation! I think if there could be a lady's car
for sleeping and toilet, exclusive of gentle-
men, it would be a great advancement in
wayfaring civilization. I thought so this
morning, especially, when I awoke from un-
easy slumbers to find the foot-board fallen,
and a group of serene-browed men gazing
smiling upon my sleeping beauty. Let us

[Column 2]
have separate cars, good people, and we can
ask nothing more of you in the way of lux-
ury and restful ease."


THE SEX.

	AN Albany woman is going to found an
asylum for cats.
	JENNIE Lind wants to visit America this
season but her husband objects.
	HELEN Dickens, a daughter of Charles
Dickens, is creating quite an excitement in
England from her writings.
	THE woman of Iowa are rapidly prepar-
ing for the ballot by instruction in parlia-
mentary debate and general business.
	THE health of the Empress Charlotte,
widow of Maximilian, is excellent, but there
is no improvement in her mental condition.
	A MODEST Cincinnati belle, upon being
asked her father's profession, said he em-
balmed pork, she believed. He was a hog-
packer.
	THE late Mrs. Lincoln, widow of Colonel
Frederick W. Lincoln, of Canton, Mass., has
left the noble bequest of $200,000 to the
Massachusetts General Hospital.
	MRS. Arnott, the widow of the late Dr.
Neil Arnott, has offered to give $5000 for
the purpose of promoting the study of nat-
ural philosophy in the University of Edin-
burgh.
	MRS. Lucinda Marsh, widow of Major
David Marsh, of Litchfield, Conn., left a
will giving her property to trustees to di-
vide the income among the needy poor of 
that town.
	QUEEN Victoria will be formally invited
by the corporation of the city of London to
participate in the entertainment to be given
by the city to the czar, and it is possible
that the Queen will take this opportunity to
emerge from her long seclusion.
	MRS. Lowry, an actress, having recently
become a convert to Methodism, was ap-
pointed to the ministry at the conference
lately closed at Baltimore. She was a
prominent feature at several of Mrs. Van
Cott's revivals, while that lady figured in
the Monumental City.
	A FARMER'S wife in Animosa, Iowa, be-
ing exasparated at the tardiness of the fire
in the kitchen stove about dinner time, the
other day, applied the great American obit-
uary promoter. She immediately retired
through the west window, while the whole
house was aglow with the light and redo-
lent with the fumes of the burning oil.
Her show of wisdom was no credit to "the
sex," though an angry man might have com-
mitted just as foolish an act.
	THE young Empress of Japan, Haruko,
who recently set her people the example of
letting her wifely eyebrows grow and her
wifely teeth remain white, now appears in
public, visits schools, encourages teachers
and scholars in the capital, and shows her
"divinity" in a manner not very different
from the divine ladies of other lands. She
is eminently a fitting spouse for the brilliant
and progressive Mikado.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	MR. Alexander Mitchel, M. C., from Wis-
consin, is reputed to be worth $16,000,000.
	The Choctaws and Cherokees of Indian
Territory raised 5,000 bales of cotton last
season.
	THE Khedive of Egypt paid £40,000 as
the cost of Sir Samuel Baker's African ex-
pedition.
	REVERDY Johnson has won his $5,000 fee
case against the Baltimore and Ohio Rail-
road Company.
	According to returns and estimates, the
number of sheep in France and in England
is about equal—35,000,000 in each.
	COLORADO, which had not a mile of rail-
road less than five years ago, has now ten
lines, having a total length of 668 miles.
	According to the last returns the aggre-
gate income of the English life insurance
offices is $77,000,000; their total accumula-
ted funds amount to $560,000,000, and the
policies in force represent nearly $1,750,000,
000.
	MRS. C. W. Haskins has laid the "corner
stone" of the Orphan Girls' Free Home, at
385 Warren avenue, Chicago where she pro-
poses to take young girls of from 12 to 15
years of age, and provide for them a home,
where education and industry may save
them from destitution and sin.
	A CONNECTICUT school boy (H. L. Andrews)
is the inventor and owner of some half doz-
en patents on school desks and ink wells, in
addition to the "Patent Gothic School Desk
and seat," and the "Triumph Desk and
seat," which are said to be unequalled by
any school desks ever made. More than
three quarters of a million of these desks
have been sold.


COMET'S TAILS.—A paper was read before
the Hackney, England, Scientific Associa-
tion recently by Mr. J. A. Reeves, advancing
an entirely new theory with regard to com-
ets. By the use of diagrams, he showed
that the part of the comet termed the tail
being always in a direction from the sun, and
therefore as often in advance of, as behind
the nucleus, is not really a tail. That as
comets are transparent, and all matter is
known to be either solid, liquid, or gaseous,
comets must be the latter, for solids and
liquids are opaque. That the only known
power by which this gaseous matter can be
held together, is gravity, which must nec-
essarily have a centre, and every part of the
body being free to move, resolves itself into
a sphere, the centre of which is in many
cases exceedingly dense, gradually thinner
towards the circumference. That the rays
of the sun are refracted in their passage
through this spherical comet, thus illumi-
nating the portion beyond the centre or nu-
cleus, which illumination forms the tail.
Mr. Reeves then explained how the various
and peculiar phenomena of comets arise;
and that they are entirely in accordance with
the universal laws of nature.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			     NATURE.
	Thou, beauteous Nature, art my worthy them:
But language fails me when I sing thy praise:
My soul is full—it has no words to tell
How, at thy blessed shrine I find a God.
What rapture swells my heart and thrills my veins
With admiration when on thee I gaze!
For in thy beauties, ever new and strange,
And wonderful, my God, I can discern—
In every leaf and flower and clinging vine,
In running brook and rill, my God I see:
In winds that moan and wail—in thunder peals—
In ocean's angry waves, I hear His voice.
So in the zephyrs, with their soft embrace
And balmy breath of Spring, I feel Him near.

	In flowery vales, in mountains, glens and streams—
In rugged rocks, and caves, and waving trees;
In sunset scenes, and ever varying skies,
Each day, new beauties live, to charm my sight.
Whatever changing garb thou e'er might don,
I only love thee Nature, more and more.

	Roll on, ye thunders, and ye lightnings flash—
Break o'er thy crags, O sea—ye winds moan on:
Ye cannot strike one pang of trembling dread
Through this fond heart of mine, that knows no fear;
For I love God, and trust his love for me.
He may chastise, but yet, I still, shall feel,
'Twas rightly done—"He doeth all things well."

	O Nature that with thee, I more could dwell,
To keep my soul from earthly dross and sin;
That I might thus be bless'd and purified
And God, my Father, ne'er forget, or grieve;
And everywhere I chance to turn my eyes,
In all His glorious works, behold my God.
S. L. City.							J. E. D.


R. S. REPORTS.

	From Springville, April 20th, 1874
	Our Society has enjoyed several pleasing
and instructive meetings during Sister Z.
D. Young's visit. We appreciate her kind
words of counsel and comfort, which will be
long remembered. We have organized a
school to teach the young girls plain and
fancy needle-work, knitting, chrochet, em-
broidery, &c., articles made to be sold in the
Relief Society's Co-operative Store; the
profits derived therefrom, to enlarge the
Society’s Funds for the benefit of the sick
and the needy.
	Cynthia Clyde, President,
	Hannah Harrison,
	Mary Ann Royland,	Counselors,
	Hannah Carter, Secretary,
	Sarah L. Mendenhall, Treasurer.
			EPHRAIM, April 26th 1874.

Editor Exponent:—
	The Ephraim Branch Relief Society held
its yearly meeting on Thursday, April 2nd.
The transactions of the year were reviewed,
Secretary’s and Treasurer’s reports read,
showing the Society to be in a prosperous
condition. This branch of the Relief So-
cieties was organized on the first of April,
1869. Since which time, the receipts have
been as follows:
For the year ending April 1st, 1870, $443.40
	"		"	April 1st, 1871,   361.18
	"		"	April 1st, 1872, 1085.06
	"		"	April 1st, 1873, 1033.05
	"		"	April 1st, 1874, 1216.95
Exclusive of this, are the profits obtained
from the Sunday Eggs which are devoted
to gathering the poor from Scandinavia;
amounting to....................................$1328.90
Making a total of..............................$5468.64
The sisters have also donated 138lbs of
Cheese, value $34.50, butter, eggs, &c.,
amounting to $50 to assist in building the
St. George Temple; and purchased a Sacra-
mental Service which cost $114.
	   AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.


A SINGULAR FACT.—To-day will be yes-
terday to-morrow.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	SOUTH COTTONWOOD, April 21st, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
	The Lord said he would help them that
would help themselves. So I have put faith
enough in Him to try and write a little. I
think by trying to say something to my sis-
ters through our EXPONENT, I shall be blest,
and given knowledge and light, that I may
be able to give a little advice, or say some-
thing that will be of use to some one. When
we get upon our feet to bear testimony, in a
meeting, we feel incapable of saying any-
thing that will do good. I believe that is
the very reason why we can not say some-
thing that will be of benefit; but if we will
put our faith in God and cultivate the gifts
which He has given us, we may become
good speakers and perhaps good writers. If
we truly trust in God, whatever we ask
Him for, with a righteous desire He will
grant. It is right for us to seek to build
each other up, and try to instruct each other.
	God bless all who seek to keep His laws.
							E. E. D.


For the EXPONENT.
		"MAN, KNOW THYSELF."

	There are many people who are very ig-
norant of that injunction, “Know thyself.”
I love the study of nature, for it leads to na-
ture’s God. No study is to me more inter-
esting than that sublime one, the machinery
of the human system. So complicated, so
ingeniously fitted up, as a tabernacle for the
spirit to dwell in! This is the place for the
immortal spirit to inhabit while preparing
for those higher regions, where knowledge
is gained without so much laborious study,
and every branch is learned so perfectly and
so easily that it does not take years to ac-
complish almost nothing, as it does here.
Still, I am thankful for what little I have
learned. And daily, as I grow older, I
thirst more and more after knowledge.
There is no study more interesting to me or
more beneficial to every one, than that of
Physiology, which teaches of man, the mas-
ter piece of creation and the likeness of the
Deity. It was what I learned of this study,
when a girl, over forty years ago, that has
kept me from doing things that would offend
that great Architect who framed this case-
ment of flesh and bones, which baffles hu-
man skill and ingenuity. We should learn
of what elements these bodies are composed,
how they are nourished, preserved and con-
tinually built up. And we should consider
well the importance of properly understand-
ing, in order that we may properly provide
for these living temples of living souls, than
which there is nothing greater or grander,
save the Creator himself.
	The world of nature is divided into three
kingdoms—the animal, the vegetable and
the mineral. All within these three king-
doms is again divided into, either living
bodies or dead matter. A mineral has
neither life nor fixed arrangement. A vege-
table has both; so also has an animal, and
in a still higher degree. This distinction
between animal and vegetable structures,
and mineral substances—between living
bodies and masses of dead matter, is, in
some instances not very easy to trace, and
yet it is most fixed and certain. For a long
time coral was thought to be nothing more
than a mineral; but when on examination,
it was found to be a growth, it was taken
from the mineral into the vegetable king-
dom and still more recently, having been
discovered to be a congeries of animals, it
has been recognized as belonging to the ani-
mal kingdom. The human body is made
up of hard or solid parts, such as the bones
and the teeth; of soft parts, such as the
muscles, the brain, &c., and of fluids, such
as the blood. It is said that God formed
man out of the dust of the earth: and won-
derfully do the minute atoms of the earth’s
surface most perfectly correspond with the
materials of which the human body is com-
posed. In no living body has any element
yet been found which does not also exist in
the very matter on which we tread. Else
how could man return to his mother earth,
from which he was taken? The earth was
created first, as an habitation for man. Not
immediately, but gradually was it fitted up
for man’s dwelling place and when the
time came for the creation of man, God
caused that he should partake of the nature
of the earth, that there might exist a rela-
tionship between the earth and the man
whom He designed for its inhabitant. This
subject is an exhaustless one, and to me, one
of unspeakable interest; and I shall be
pleased to contribute some of my thoughts
concerning it from time to time, hoping
that by so doing I may, at least draw the
attention of some, and awaken an inter-
est for a most useful study which I consider
has been very much neglected. 
                               M. A. E. WATMOUGH
Salt Lake City.


HOME TALK

	"What ponderous thought is occupying
your mind now, sweet one?" asked a fond
mother of her young daughter.
	"I was trying to think, mother, why it is
that my head feels so comfortable, so per-
fectly at ease in aunt Wells' square room.
It cannot be her affectionate influence over
me, because there are many friends I love
as well as I do her. Can you tell me what it
can be mother?"
	"Perhaps I can. Did you ever notice
that no two windows in your aunt's room
are opposite each other? Thus the rays of
light which illuminate it, through not be-
ing direct are not so powerful and oppres-
sive to the brain as they would be other-
wise.
	"Oh! how plain that seems to me now
mother. But why are not all houses so 
built?"
	"Perhaps, my child, the present style of
architecture governs in this matter. But
look still further. In the summer-time
when our systems yield to the enervating
influence of the heated atmosphere, how
kindly has our Heavenly Father arranged,
that solid or dark colors are immediately
around us, for the well-being of our eyes.
while as we raise them to look into the dis-
tance, lighter shades are blended, that our
sight may be strengthened as well as inter-
ested by looking through an equalized at-
mosphere."
	"I see ma, and that is why you always pre-
fer to have light curtains across our win-
dows, so that the room may  not be shaded
above and light below."
	"Exactly so my child. Now learn from
this to arrange even your bedroom with
thought and design. I see our friends are
coming now, but we will talk again some-
time.				AZURETTA.
	Washington, April, 1874.


﻿A MAN out West brags that all the furni-
ture and flooring in his house is made
of live oak, but his wife, who does the hard
work of the house, says it’s nothing but
scrub oak.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DRESS.

A YOUNG LADY'S FIRST ATTEMPT AT ESSAY
                           WRITING.

	I have chosen this subject, not that it is
an uncommon one, but because I think it a
fit one for young ladies to consider. I will
notice the unreasonable extravagance of the
lady who “alamode,” wears costly silk
dresses either trailing upon the ground or
else trimmed up to the waist with ruffles,
laces, velvet, fringe &c. Then in addition
to this, the false curls, frizzes, puffs and
other varieties of unreal and often shabby
looking hair; the stylish hat or the “love of
a bonnet” from Paris; the powder to make
the face nice and white, and the paint to
give color; the tight lacing to make the waist
small and round; and the little shoes, ever
so much smaller than the feet which are
crowded into them.—you know it requires
all these things to complete the toilet of a
fashionable lady. And often, much more
than this is necessary to satisfy her ambition
to attract attention and “out shine” her asso-
ciates in regard to dress.
And the general excuse for such folly is,
“Oh! one might as well be out of the world
as out of fashion.” I think they might bet-
ter all be out of the world than to follow
such ridiculous and injurious customs.
	Another lame excuse that some of them
make for their vanity, is, that they do so to
please the gentlemen. Well, I would let
the gentlemen be displeased with me and
my ways before I would be such a slave to
fashion. But if some of them could hear
the "side speeches" made about them by
the very gentlemen they strive so hard to
please, they would want to hide themselves,
and never again be guilty of such foolish-
ness.
	Were I a man and wanting a wife, I would
wait and search long and patiently to find a
good, plain hearted girl who was content
with being dressed neatly and sensibly be-
fore I would marry one of these butteflies
of fashion. It is a real fact that “beauty is
but skin deep;” and after all, a beautiful
soul is worth more than all the fine clothing
or beautiful faces in the world. There is
another trite saying which I think a very
true and logical one. It is simply this,
“Pretty is that pretty does."
	I do not wish my young lady friends to
misunderstand me. I would not like to see
girls of sixteen or twenty trying to appear
like women of forty or fifty, by making their
dresses to look odd and old fashioned.
Though even that would be better than en-
couraging the uncomfortable modes belong-
ing to the present fashions for ladie’s dress.
I think girls should cultivate good taste and
dress neatly and modestly, taking some
pains to wear whatever they find most be-
coming to them, regardless of prevailing
fashions.
	Now, if I may venture, I will say a few
words to the gentlemen. I can make little
distinction between old and young, for in
such respects as I shall allude to, age seems
to make but little difference.
	For instance, a coat must be of the latest
style, of course, and made by a fashionable
tailor and the material must be of broad
cloth or some other imported goods.—Once
some of them at least, were glad to get
homespun.—The shirt must be just so nice,
without a crease or a spot, and finished off
with a satin gloss. Ten cents is nothing to
pay for having a pair of boots polished in
the finest order. Oh no! But I think it
would be more to the gentleman’s credit if
he did it himself. And I know something
else about them, many of them pinch and
cripple their feet just as badly as the ladies
do, to make them look small and genteel.
Then the hair must be cut and perfumed in
just such a manner, and topped off with the
very latest style of hats. And Oh! that
darling mustache how tenderly and carefully
must that be caressed and petted!
	I do not pretend to say the men either
young or old, are all like this. But too
many of them are; and I believe that such
are the very ones that have so much to say
about the absurdities of the fashions and
the extravagance of women. They don’t
see that there is anything of more impor-
tance for them to trouble their poor, empty
heads over, after they have made them-
selves to look as exquisitely "beautiful" as
possible.
	I needn't say, sensible girls will never al-
low themselves to be “taken in” by any
such dandified fop, because everyone knows
that.—I hope I haven’t offended any one,
or intruded too long on any person’s time.
                                  MISS MARY D.
14th Ward.


INEXPENSIVE HAPPINESS.

	The most perfect home I ever saw was in
a little house into the sweet incense of whose
fires went no costly things. A thousand
dollars served for a year’s living of father,
mother and three children. But the moth-
er was the creator of the home; her relation
with her children was the most beautiful I
have ever seen; even a dull and common-
place man was lifted up and enabled to do
good work for souls by the atmosphere
which this woman created; every inmate of
her house involuntarily looked into her face
for the key-note of the day; and it always
rang clear. From the rose-bud or clover-
leaf; which, in spite of her hard house-work,
she always found time to put by our plates
at breakfast, down to the very story she had
on hand to be read in the evening, there
was no intermission of her influence. She
has always been and always will be my ideal
of a mother, wife, home-maker. If to her
quick brain, loving heart and exquisite face
had been added the appliance of wealth and
the enlargements of a wider culture, here
would have been the ideal of home. As it
was, it was the best I have ever seen.—Hel-
en Hunt.


MRS. J. A. Duniway edits and is the pro-
prietor of the "New Northwest," a weekly
newspaper published at Portland, Oregon.
She earned the money, on a sewing ma-
chine, with which to purchase the material
for the paper, and she raised the boys who
do the work of the office. She is at present
lecturing on the subject of temperance, and
she shows herself to be a woman of good
strong sense, pleasing all who hear her.


DIVERSIONS.

	THE dress circle—Crinoline.
	TO curb a fast young man—Bridal him.
	A. T. KETTLE is the only singer who never
had a cold.
	A SHOE dealer advertises "Woman's
Rights and Lefts."
	THE woman question—How shall I have
my summer suit made?
	"HUSBAND, where shall I get the ticking
for our new feather bed?" "Any place
where you can get the tick."
	HOW long ought a lady's crinoline to be?
Not too much above two feet.
	Everybody complains of his gas bill,
yet it is a light expense.
	THE ladies are having ruff times since the
Elizabethan fashion in neck gear has been
introduced.
	WHY does the eye resemble a schoolmas-
ter in the act of flogging? It has a pupil
under the lash.
	A MAN who had been to a crowded ball
said he was fond of rings on his fingers, but
he didn't like belles on his toes.
	IN Mississippi, when one is insulted, in-
stead of threatening to "put a head" on the 
offender, it is a stylish thing to say, "I'll
put your nose in a parenthesis."
	A WESTERN bridegroom sent an account
of his wedding to the village paper, and
was mortified when "the wedding trous-
seau" came out in print "the wedding
trousers."
	"YOU Swiss always fight for money; we
French for honor," said a pompous French
officer to a Swiss gentleman. "Yes," re-
sponded the latter; "it is natural for people
to fight for that which they most need."
	DURING Curran's last illness, his physician
remarked one morning that he seemed to
cough with more difficulty, he replied, "that
is surprising, as I have been practicing all
night."
	THE best definition to scandal ever given,
according to Arthur Helps, was that of a
little girl who described it thus: Nobody
does nothing, and everybody goes on tell-
ing it everywhere." That is better than
a dictionary.
	A JUDGE reprimanding a criminal, called
him a scoundrel. The prisoner replied;
"Sir, I am not as big a scoundrel as your
Honor"—here the culprit stopped, but fi-
nally added—"takes me to be." "Put your
words closer together," said the Judge.
	A MAN in Ohio was acquitted of a murder
on a plea of insanity, a year ago, and secured
his lawyers by giving them a mortgage on
his farm. He repudiates the mortgage now,
as he was insane when he made it, accord-
ing to the showing of the same lawyers.
	A YOUNG lady at Council Bluffs, being in-
formed by her "feller" that he intended to
cease his attentions, cowhided him around
the room, and as he was leaving, told him
that would teach him to be more careful for
the future  not to trifle with a gentle and
loving heart.
	YOUNG Simpson beginning the study of
natural philosophy, became fond of applying
technical names to common objects to im-
press hearers with a sense of his profound
knowledge, and tried the game with his 
father one evening. When he mentioned
to him that he had swallowed some "marine
acephalous molusks" the old man was much
alarmed, and he suddenly seized Simpson
and threw him to the floor, and held him
and screamed for help. When Mrs. Simpson
came with some warm water, and the hired
man rushed in with a garden pump, they
forced half a gallon of water down Simp-
son's throat, and then held him by the heels
over the edge of the porch and shook him,
while the old man said "if we don't get them
things out of William he will be pizened."
And when they were out, and William ex-
plained that the articles alluded to were
merely oysters, then his father fondled him
for half an hour with a trunk strap for scar-
ing the family.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months,$1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office  hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMEN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, May 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	Boydtown, Va., has a colored postmistress,
her name is Mary E. Jones......Mrs. Eliza-
beth C. Norris is Assistant Register of
Deeds in Barnstable......It is estimated that
the Patrons of Husbandry saved nearly six
million dollars by co-operative purchasing
last year......Mr. R. B. Forbes suggests calm-
ing the sea by means of oil; the idea is said
to have originated with Benjamin Franklin,
who saw the effects produced by the acci-
dental upsetting of a barrel of oil while
crossing the Atlantic......Mark Miller, an
agricultural Editor, who was the founder of
the "Wisconsin Farmer," and afterwards
published the "Northwestern Farmer," re-
cently died at his home near Des Moines....
Ten or twelve young men in Louisiana have
placed themselves under the supervision of
a competent man, and have secured land,
teams, seed and implements necessary for
carrying on the farming business, which
they intend to learn......A proposition has
been made for the construction of a railway
from Naples to the crater of Mount Versu-
vius.........In California, Chinamen are now
employed as draught animals.........Joseph
Arch contemplates coming to America in
June......It is reported that at and around
Hernando, Miss., it rained brimstone the
other day.........A history of American cur-
rency is soon to be published by Prof. Sum-
ner, of Yale College......Only three dollars'
worth of damage was done last year by the
well behaved students of Michigan College
......Patrons of Husbandry, it is said, are dis-
approved of by the Archbishop of San Fran-
cisco, and the sentiment is reciprocated......
Ex-Governor Claflin of Massachusetts is go-
ing into the shoe manufacturing business in
New Hampshire......The French Prince Im-
perial is said to look like his mother.........
Governor Ames of Mississippi has become
popular for having dispensed with wine at
his late reception......The wig which Lord
Brougham wore when he was Lord Chan-
cellor of England, was found among the
many rare curiosities owned by the late
Senator Sumner......The ex-King of Naples
lost with his throne, the possession of four 
splendid palaces, and now he lives in a hum-
ble dwelling near Paris......Texas, with all
her cattle, sells milk at one dollar a gallon
......Kansas prints one hundred and eighteen
newspapers...........A Wisconsin dairyman
wants to learn something about this "crema-
tion" (burning of the dead) business,......A
new disease called "the pink eye," has ap-
peared among the horses in New York and
Brooklin. The discharge in this case is from
the eyes instead of the nose as in cases of
epizootic, and for a time the horse afflicted
is quite blind......A report from the Russian
Co-operative Manufacturing and Trade So-
ciety, is in favor of the construction of a 
railroad between Russia and China,
through Siberia.


﻿PLEA FOR PICTURES.

	"Too many pictures?”  No, no;—who-
ever you are making such an assertion, I
meet it with a most emphatic no, sir! If
you had a pair of bright eyes in your house-
hold, like the ones that make sunshine in
mine, and a two-year-old voice full of baby
sweetness asking “So pitters, mamma,”—
if the kitten in your Rural bore such un-
mistakable marks of petting and smoothing
the wrong way, by fat dimpled fingers, as
mine does,—and the little baby standing on
the table (in the paper of Jan. 10th,) had
his dress rumpled and his pouting lips
somewhat moistened as results of an every-


day hugging and kissing,—I don't believe
you could protest against the pictures, my
friend; for to me, at least, it is well worth
the price of the paper to watch the brown
eyes sparkle and see the eagerness with
which these same pictures are greeted by
the little wide-awake baby of our house-
hold.
	I suppose you wouldn't let the children
have your papers for fear they would soil 
them. Well, I let my little baby girl look
at them all she likes. That is, I show the
pictures to her and talk about them, and she
loves and pets them as if they were really
real. The only harm my papers receive is
a slightly worn look where her favorite pic-
tures are. And this—oh! how precious
would these finger marks be to me should
those dear little fingers be laid away lifeless
and still, where I never more on earth
could feel their velvet touch.
	I think it is no harm to encourage a love
of pictures in a child—pretty, innocent pic-
tures. You will be repaid, believe me, in
days to come, if you live, by seeing the lit-
tle minds grow up with a refined, cultivated
taste for all that is beautiful and good, if in
their early years you call forth such a taste
by teaching them to love what is pretty and
pure in nature and elsewhere.—R. N. Y.


CONFERENCE ITEMS.

	Another general Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been
held in this city; and again, as ever before on
such occasions, has the Spirit and power of God
been richly poured out upon His Servants in
their endeavors to prompt, stimulate and in-
struct the people.
	From the many timely subjects treated upon
by the various speakers during the Conference,
we design selecting and connecting a few, which
may be considered of most importance to be
kept in memory, hoping that some good to our
readers may be the result. If not to those who
enjoyed the great privilege of listening to the
teachings and exhortations given, at least to
some who were not so highly favored.
	The grand movement for an increase of unity
in the church, was, as a matter of course, the
principal theme discoursed upon. At the open-
ing of the Conference, President Young made
a request that the Elders who should speak
would give expression to their feelings and
views concerning the “United Order.” And
much which was calculated to inform the minds
and strengthen the confidence of the Saints up-
on this subject, was spoken.
	Allusions were made to the Latter-day Work
in early times; when the Lord gave the law
and would have instituted among His Saints
the Order of Zion. But while some could com-
prehend the benefits and blessings which would
certainly prove the results of a unity of pur-
pose and action among a virtuous and indus-
trious people, others were so blinded by their
own selfish views, and their fears of loosing
property which the Lord had loaned them—for
no one was really the owner, though he might
be the possessor of wealth—that the Order could
not then be established. But now, it WOULD
be established.  Continual instructions and ex-
hortations had been offered to the Saints pre-
paratory to their receiving this principle. They
had gone as far as it was possible for them to go
in patterning after the vain fashions of the
world, and still stand as a distinct community.
Now, those who were desirous of serving God,
must turn round and pursue a different course.
Babylon would fall, and the Saints must be
prepared for it by having become a self-sustain-
ing people. Nearly every necessity of life could
be produced in Utah and, as for many of the
luxuries to which the people had become hab-
ituated, they would be healthier and happier
without them. One great object to be attained
was to get the people to understand the laws of
life, and the principles by which health and
longevity may be promoted. 
	There were among the Latter-day Saints, just
as good business men and mechanics of all kinds
as could be found in any part of the world. It was
not good, therefore, for such a community
to import much and export comparatively
nothing. It should produce and manufacture
more than it could consume, that it might have
something to sell, instead of buying. To
bring school teachers from other places are quite
unnecessary, as there were young people here,
who were naturally adapted to that calling; and
when boys and girls evinced a love of order and
study, and also displayed a power for governing
others in a proper manner, they were the ones
to select for the future school teachers. Books
could also be made by the people of the Terri-
tory, which would be far more advantageous to
them than sending for those manufactured
abroad. The work of type setting, and much
connected with the printing business belonged
to the women; and it was the design of the au-
thorities of the Church, to have an extensive
establishment prepared for the purpose of giv-
ing employment to women and girls who were
desirous of learning and following such pur-
suits. The efforts which the ladies had already
made in that direction, as well as the great
amount of good they had accomplished in ma-
ny other respects, were highly commendable,
and significant of what they were likely to per-
form when in possession of greater advantages
and opportunities. The experience of the past
also plainly showed that without the co opera-
tion of the women of a community, the pro-
gress of the men would amount to but very lit-
tle.
	Great willingness was unanimously manifes-
ted on the part of the people, to comply with
the counsels given and the requisitions made.
	The music of the Tabernacle choir during
Conference was appropriately chosen, well per-
formed, and in all respects, very excellent.
	At the close of the Conference, which con-
tinued four days, President Young thanked the
musicians for the part they had taken, the El-
ders who had prayed, those who had spoken,
also the people for coming together, and blest
them all. After which he adjourned the Con-
ference till the 6th day of next October.


﻿TO FRIENDS AND SUBSCRIBERS.

	We designed giving in this issue a new list
of club and subscription rates for the coming
year. But not having yet been able to com-
plete some desirable arrangements, we are
obliged to defer it until our next number. Our
terms will therefore continue the same as before
until further notice.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE WOULD call attention to L. L. D.'s "Talk
with the Sisters," which appears in this issue.
Read it Sisters, many of you are needing such
hints as are therein given, and it contains good
food for every intelligent mind.

	WITH THE present issue, closes the second
volume of the EXPONENT. To all who have
evinced a kindly concern in its behalf, during
its two years' progress, we tender grateful ac-
knowledgments, and extend a cordial invita-
tion to all lovers of truth and co-workers in the
cause of progression, to use their influence to
aid in its future support and augmentation.

	DURING THE past week, we have been favored
with calls from many friends, who, coming in-
to the city from different parts of the Territory
to attend the adjourned Conference, have man-
ifested their interest in the EXPONENT by "drop-
ping in" to speak words of good cheer; and, in
some instances, to offer even more substantial
and necessary avails than pleasant words. We
return them, one and all, our thanks and kind
wishes.

	THE FIREMEN had a torchlight procession on
the evening of the 8th. They numbered about
two hundred, and appeared in full uniform,
with banners, a band of music, engine, hose
and hook and ladder carriages gaily decorated,
and the occasional firing off of rockets. The
effect was enhanced by a dark, cloudy sky, and
altogether they formed a picturesque and ani-
mated scene.

	FROM THE annual report of the Superintend-
ent of St. Mark's Hospital, we learn that 353
patients have been received during the year,
and the total cost for each one has averaged
about $1.28 a day. Thirty patients who were
destitute had been treated without charge.
The Hospital began the year free from any
permanent indebtedness, but needs more means
and a more commodious building to properly
meet the demands that are made on it. We
think the subject a worthy one for the consid-
eration of the benevolent.

	THE PEOPLE of Salt Lake have lately had
the opportunity of seeing and hearing the fa-
mous lecturer, the wonderful woman, Victoria
C. Woodhull. Whatever her former life may
have been, or wherever herself or her senti-
ments may be met with reproach or ridicule,
there was nothing in her appearance, or in any-
thing she uttered in the Salt Lake Theatre, to
justify such a reception. She simply appeared
and spoke there, as a plain spoken, earnest,
honest woman, and was as such received. Our
want of space precludes further notice.


FROM KANAB.

				May 2nd, 1874.

MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:--
	To-day has been one of those beautiful
Sabbath days that comes to us once in a 
while, so pleasant and peaceful—when the
Spirit and presence of God are manifest near
us. I have not been to meeting, but have
kept house and let all the girls go. I have
been reading, and I have had a little time
of quiet to think.
	Brother John R. Young is our President
of the "Family Order" here; he has moved
his family to this place; He is now out to
help the brethren over the river. We feel
very anxious about them; the water is fast
rising, so if they can only get over the river,
on this side, there will not be much danger
from the Indians for a while; and, in the


mean time I hope we shall become stronger
here. I intend writing every week, that
you may know how we get along.
	My eldest daughter is helping in the
school. Just now she is sitting before me
at the table reading, and such a lovely pic-
ture! She has her hair in curls, and to my
mother heart she is beautiful. My girls are
so great a comfort to me all the time! In
what shall a mother find joy and rejoicing
if not in her children?
	I have been hoping that the mail would
bring me a letter from mother, but it did
not. I look so anxiously for letters every
mail, and when none comes, the weeks seem
very long.
	If I could write such a letter as you can,
I would write you a nice long one; but this
I know you will receive as I send it—in love.
From your affectionate cousin
						H. M. B.


MARK OF A GENTLEMAN.

	No man is a gentleman who without prov-
ocation, would treat with incivility the
humblest of his species. It is vulgarity for
which no accomplishment of dress or ad-
dress can ever atone. Show us the man
who desires to make all around him happy,
and give cause of offense to no one, and we
will show you a true gentleman, though he
may never have worn a suit of broadcloth,
nor ever heard of a lexicon. We are proud
to say, for the honor of our species, there
are men in every throb of whose hearts is a
solicitude for the welfare of mankind, and
whose every breath is perfumed with kind-
ness.—Selected


﻿WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.

	Our veteran Bryant—we will not say Nestor of
the poets, for classical as Mr. Bryant’s tastes are,
he must be heartily tired of this comparison—is
now in his eightieth year, but is scarcely inferior in
physical vigor to what he was in his prime. The
other day we watched him walking down Broad-
way, with a step as firm as that of a young man,
and with a pace that outstripped every one else on
the pavement. The poet, with his slight, little
figure, the mass of white hair that fell upon his
shoulders, and the white beard that swept his
breast, stalked on, a most picturesque figure, passing
old men and young men, slow walkers and swift
walkers, without the slightest indication of age,
infirmity, or fatigue. We watched him until he
was lost in the crowd, but to the last we saw him
keep up his active step, overtaking and passing not
merely the slow loiterers, but all the hurrying busi-
ness people of our thronged highway.—“Apple-
ton’s Journal.''


THE LAW OF LOVE.—In 1647, the General
Court of Massachusetts enacted, that if any
young man attempted to address any young
woman without the consent of her parents,
or, in case of their absence, of a neighbour-
ing magistrate of the County Court, he
should be fined five pounds for the first of-
fense, ten pounds for the second, and impris-
onment for the third. In 1660 Captain Daniel
Blake was fined the first named sum, but
let off for four pounds, conditionally, “for
making love to Edmund Bridg’s daughter,
without her parents consent.”


FLOWERS.

	NO man is free who does not command
himself.
	THE tongue,--the latch-key that lets out
the mind.
	HE is rich whose income is more than
his expenses.
	THE trials of life are the tests which as-
certain how much gold is in us.
	POETRY.—The music of thought convey-
ed to us in the music of language.
	NONE should despair; God can help them.
None should presume; God can cross them.
	WHAT men want is not talent, but purpose;
in other words,not the power to achieve, but
the will to labor.
	ALL men can perceive the vanity of past
pleasures; but how few discover the vanity
of those which are to come.
	MANY a child goes astray not because
there is want of prayer or virtue at home,
but simply because home lacks sunshine.
	THE Hindoos extend their hospitality to
their enemies, saying: “The tree does not
withdraw its shade even from the wood cut-
ter."
	THE spectacle of a field of battle after the
combat, should be sufficient to inspire prin-
ces with the love of peace, and the horror of 
war.—Napoleon.
	LORD Chatham, who was almost as re-
markable for his mannners as for his elo- 
quence, defined good breeding to be “Be-
nevolence in the little daily occurrences of 
life."
	THE chief secret of comfort lies in not
suffering trifles to vex one, and in prudently
cultivating an undergrowth of small plea-
sures, since very few great ones are let on 
 ong leases.
	THE last, best fruits which come to late
perfection, even in the kindliest soul, is 
tenderness toward the hard, forbearance to- 
wards the unforbearing, warmth of heart 
towards the cold, philanthropy towards the
misanthropic.—Jean Paul.
	AVARICE has been termed “the vice of
little minds.” And so it is, in the sense in
which it is generally understood. But
though the vice of a little mind, it is by no
means a little vice, but one of the largest,
as it is insatiable in its desire and unlimited
in its cravings.
	A PERSON is not worth anything that has 
not had troubles. You cannot subdue self-
ishness without a struggle.  You cannot re-
strain pride without a conflict. You cannot
expect to go through life without bearing
burdens. But you are going to have help 
under circumstances that will redeem you
from these things. You are going to expe- 
rience more victories than defeats. Your 
suffering will be only here and there—little
spots in a whole field of peace and joy.


MARK TWAIN ON THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.
—"you cannot find as much climate bunched
together anywhere in the world as you can
on the Sandwich Islands. You take a ther-
mometer and mark on it where you want
the mercury to stand permanently, with
the privilege of ranging five or six degrees
at long intervals, and you may select the
spot that will exactly accommodate you.
At Honolulu it is always about 82 deg.; five
hundred feet up the mountain yon can have
it 70 der.; go higher, and your mercury falls
to the exact point you like. If you want
snow and ice forever, go to the summit of
Mauna Kea; if you want it hot, go to Lah-
aina, where they do not hang the thermom-
eter on a nail, because the solder might
melt.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿BETTER THAN GOLD.

		  SELECTED.

Better than grandeur, better than gold,
Than rank and titles a thousand fold,
Is a healthy body, a mind at ease,
And simple pleasures that always please;
A heart that can feel for a neighbor’s woe.
And share his joy with a genial glow,
With sympathies large enough to enfold
All men as brothers, is better than gold.

Better than gold is a conscience clear,
Though toiling for bread in a humble sphere,
Doubly blest with content and health,
Untried by the lusts of cares and wealth;
Lowly living and lofty thought
Adorn and ennable a poor man’s cot,
For mind and morals in Nature’s plan
Are the genuine test of a gentleman.

Better than gold is the sweet repose
Of the sons of toll when their labors close;
Better than gold is the poor man's sleep:
And the balm that dro[-]s on his slumbers deep,
Brings sleeping draughts to the downy bed
Where luxury pillows his aching head;
His simple opiate labor deems
A shorter road to the land of dreams.

Better than gold is a thinking mind,
That in the realms of books can find
A treasure surpassing Australian ore,
And live with the great and good of yore,
The sage’s lore and the poet’s lay, 
The glories of empire’s passed away,
The world's great drama will thus enfold. 
And yield a pleasure better than gold.

Better than gold is a peaceful home,
Where all the fireside charities come,  
The shrine of love, the haven of life, 
Hallowed by mother, or sister, or wife,
However humble the home may be,
Or tried with sorrow by heaven’s decree,
the blessings that never were bought or sold, 
And, centre there, are better than gold.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Keep the birthdays.—They belong exclusively to
and are treasured among the sweetest memori[-]s of
home. Do not let anything prevent some token,
be it ever so slight, to show that it is remembered.
Birthdays are great events to children. For one
day they feel they are heroes. The special pud-
dings are made expressly for them; a new jacket,
trousers with pockets, or the first pair of boots is
donned, and big brothers and sisters sink into in-
significance beside "little Charley" who is "six to-
day," and is soon "going to be a man." Fathers
who have half a dozen little ones to care for are apt
to forget birthdays—they come too often. Some-
times they are too busy, and sometimes they are
bothered; but if they only knew how much
such souvenirs are cherished by their children years
afterwards, when, away from the hearthstone, they
have none to remind them that they have added
one more year to the perhaps weary round of life,
or to wish them, in the good, old-fashioned phrase,
"many happy returns of their birthday," they
would never permit any cause to step in between
them and a parent's privilege.—R. N. Y.
	How to Restore old Writing.—Writing which
has become illegible by age, may be restored by
moistening it with an iufnsion of galls.
	A Good Bread Pudding.—Take five slices of
dry bread or their equivalent in broken pieces,
pour over them three quarts of sweet milk, let them
soak, then add four or five eggs, beaten well with
one large’cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and
spice or nutmeg to suit the taste. Do not crumb
the bread, but just brake the slices in several pieces,
letting them float in the milk.  Bake in a moder-
ately hot oven; the pudding should be nicely brown-
ed, with a rich custard beneath the bread. To be
eaten warm, with no dressing except butter. Very
good cold.
	Here is an excellent recipe for making genuine
erasive soap that will remove grease and stains from
clothing: Two pounds of good castile soap; half a
pound of carbonate of potash, dissolved in half a
pint of hot water. Cut the soap in thin slices,
boil the soap with the potash until it is thick enough
to mold in cakes, also add alcohol, half an ounce;
color with half an ounce of pulverized charcoal.
	Remedy for Earache.—There is scarcely any
ache to which children are subject so bad to bear
and so difficult to cure as the earache; but there is
a remedy never known to fail. Take a bit of cot-
ton batting, put upon it a pinch of black pepper,
gather it up and tie it; dip it in sweet oil and in-
sert in the ear. Put a flannel bandage over the
head to keep it warm. It will give immediate re-
lief.—"Exchange."
	The feet being covered from the view, are less
important to beauty than to comfort. A neat foot
is, nevertheless, a great addition to personal beauty.
The preservation of the feet is so essential to the
daily purposes of life, that every care should be
taken of them. Corns are formed by the harden-
ing of the cuticle under pressure of the shoe.
Loose shoes, by moving and rubbing upon a partic-
ular point, are as apt to produce corns as tight
shoes. There are various remedies: A little sweet
oil rubbed upon the scat of the corn has been
found to check its development. The oil should be
applied after the corn has been pared.
	Oat chaff Beds.—A most soft, comfortable and
wholesome filling for beds or for matrasses can be
procured in most country places by getting a far-
mer to allow oat chaff to be saved. It is soft,
light and elastic, and very sweet. The cost is very
little, only the labor paid to the farmer for the men
saving and sifting it. As oat chaff is rarely used
for cattle food, it is easily obtained. It is so very
light that a slighter kind of bed-tick than is neces-
sary for other kinds of filling is quite sufficient for
oat chaff. Another advantage is that it can be
changed every year with so little cost that it is
within the reach of any one. For children's beds it
is perfectly satisfactory. It is only necessary to
keep a sack or two stuffed full of oat chaff in a dry
place, and then new and fresh filling is at hand to
make a sweet bed, whatever accident may have be-
fallen the cot mattress.


FLORAL HINTS.

	DAHLIAS, as soon as they commence their
growth must be tied to stakes.
	SOW seeds of Sweet-pea, Cypress-vine,
Morning Glory, etc., where a screen is need-
ed and for covering trellises.
	EDGINGS around walks and beds should be
kept neatly cut, and no grass or weeds al-
lowed to grow on the paths.
	SET out Gladiolus, Tiger flower, and Lily
bulbs in rich soil Tuberoses do best if plant-
ed in pots and started in the house before
setting out.
	EVERGREENS succeed best when planted
some time during this month, May. Great
care must be taken not to allow the roots to
dry by exposure to the winds.
	SOW annuals as soon as the ground becomes
warm. Perrennials should be sown in sepa-
rate beds from the annuals. Sow the seeds
of those now coming into flower, as soon as
they are ripe.
	LAWNS should be cut often in order to
keep the surface neat and smooth. If the
grass is not too thick, allow it to remain on
the ground; it will serve as a fertilizer, and
also prevent the sun from drying out the
roots. Shrubs flower better if properly
pruned.
	REMOVE THE FLOWERS.—Lovers of flow-
ers should know that one blossom allowed
to mature or "go to seed," injures the plant
more than a dozen new buds. Cut your
flowers, all of them, before they fade. Adorn
your room with them, put them on your ta-
bles; send boquets to your friends who have
no flowers, or exchange favors with those
who have. All roses, after they have ceased
blooming, should be cut back, that the
strength of the root may go to forming new
roots for next year, and on these bushes not
a seed should be allowed to mature.—Ex.
	RULES FOR JUDGING THE BEST CARN-
TION.—Miller, Abercrombie, Maddock, and 
others have written on the properties re-
quisite to characterize a first-rate Carnation;
but it is to Mr. Glenny, as a standard au-
thority, that we are indebted for concentrat-
ing and improving the rules of his prede-
cessors in floral criticism. From the latter
gentleman's "Standard of Perfection," with
trifling alterations, we extract the following
properties of the Carnation:—
	1. The flower should not be less than two
and a half inches across.
	2. The guard or lower petals, not less than
six in number, must be broad, thick, and
smooth on the outside, free from notch or
serrature on the edge, and lapping over
each other sufficiently to form a circular
rose-like flower: the more perfectly round
the outline the better.
	3. Each layer of petals should be smaller
than the layer immediately under it; there
should not be less than five or six layers of
petals placed regularly; and the flower
should rise in the centre so as to form a
semi-globular shape.
	4. The petals should be stiff, free from
notches, and slightly cupped.
	5. The ground should be pure white, with-
out specks.
	6.The stripes of color should be clear and
distinct, not running into one another, not
confused; but dense, smooth at the edges,
and well-defined.
	7. The colors, whatever they may be,
must be bright and clear; if there be two
colors, the darkest one cannot be too dark,
or form too strong a contrast with the light-
er. With scarlet, the perfection would be a
black; with pink there cannot be too deep a 
crimson; with lilac or light purple, the sec-
ond color cannot be too dark a purple.
	8. If the colors run into the white and
tinge it, or the white is not pure, the fault
is very great, and pouncy spots or specks
are highly objectionable.
	9. The pod of the bloom should be long
and large, to enable the flower to bloom
without bursting it; but this is rare. They
generally require to be tied down about half
way, and the upper part of the calyx opened
down to the tie; yet there are some kinds
which scarcely require any assistance, and
this is a very estimable quality.
	10. Decided superiority of perfume should
obtain the prize, when competing flowers
are in other respects of equal merit.—En-
glish Paper.


DUTCH CLEANLINESS.—If cleanliness can
ever be carried to excess it is in Holland.
The very servants have such caps and ker-
chiefs and aprons and lace, and so beauti-
fully got up, I can compare it to nothing
but a laundress on a pleasure party taking a
days’ wear of her mistress’ best things.
Of course, they have a wash every week-
day, besides the grand one on Saturdays,
when they really wash everything in the
place, except the water. As an instance of
their particularity, at almost every house
there is a sort of double looking-glass out-
side the window, as if for seeing up and
down the street but Frank says it is that
the Dutch ladies may watch, before being at
home to a friend, whether he has dirty boots
or shoes.—“Hood”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A TALK WITH THE SISTERS.

	The Bible severely condemns a "gadding
woman;" and this fact, conjoined with some
others, makes some of our conscientious sis-
ters backward even to attend their Society
meetings. The are not to be blamed for
disliking to be the recipients of so disgusting
a title as "Gadder," but I insist that they
greatly mistake its application.
	Gadding is wandering idly in the neigh-
borhood, with no higher aim than the pur-
suit of gossip; and if any sister attends
gatherings of the sisterhood with this aim
only, she would do as well to remain away.
But I am proud to doubt that any fall so far
short of a realization of their high calling.
	For the benefit of those who deem they
can always spend their time better at 
home, let us discuss the question.
	While we all admit that it is our duty to do
the very best we know, many seem to think
that what we do not know will never be
counted against us. But how will it be if
we are wilfully ignorant? if we purposely
avoid the means of gaining knowledge
either of temporal or spiritual things? Shall
we not then fall under condemnation for our
ignorance? If we fail to cultivate the tal-
ents we possess, shall we not fare as did the
unprofitable servant who hid his talent in
the earth and improved it not?
	Besides the disbursement of charity, it is
the duty of each member of a Society of
sisters to improve herself; and she may be
sure that whatever she gains in vigor of
thought and understanding, happy expres-
sion or self-possession, her children will in-
herit. The mother's looks, ways and forms
of speech are unconsciously copied by her
children, and for their sake it is her duty to
cultivate every worthy attribute of her na-
ture to the utmost extent of harmonious ac-
tion, that she may have the ability to set for
them a copy worthy of imitation.
	If she never undertakes to address sev-
eral persons connectedly, how shall she over-
come the habit of speaking in the fragmen-
tary, unfinished style of the ignorant and
timid? When shall she cease to be morti-
fied at hearing her children hesitate, repeat
and stammer when trying to narrate any
passing incident? If she never expects to
impart her thoughts to others, what stimu-
lus has she to cultivate habits of deep and
continuous thought? and if she has not that
power herself, how can she give it to her
children?
	If she strengthen not her own faith in
the glorious plan of salvation which God
has revealed to His children, how can she
build up theirs? If no noble enthusiasm
for the good of humanity warm her own
heart, how can she impart such to them?
	Dear sisters, may it not be that God is
testing us in small matters preparatory to
calling us in labor in great ones? or, rather,
does not He  allow great matters to appear
small in our eyes, that we may prove wheth-
er we are willing to live up to our privileges
and avail ourselves of every opportunity to
educate ourselves, and be prepared to oc-
cupy any position, however important or
responsible, to which we may be called?
	How can we guess what all-important
duties the near future has in store for us?
There are yet portions of the Gospel unre-
vealed, and in view of what it may disclose,
how heedful should we be that the dark day
finds us not with dark and empty lamps like
the foolish virgins.
	We are women; and the day has yet
scarcely dawned when the name woman is
not a synonym of ignorance and weakness.
We are gathered from the midst of all na-
tions, and in every one of these nations, the
education of woman was almost ignored.
	Being, then, only children in acquire-
ments, even though now our lot is cast
among a people who believe it only just that
woman should be as highly educated as man,
it is necessary that we begin climbing at
the foot of the ladder, and if we never
reach the top in this world, let us not falter,
for whatever we gain is ours, and to every
step we ascend we may lift our children with
far less trouble to them, than if they were
climbing alone.
	Our society meetings are excellent schools
in which to gain, if we will, a knowledge
of passing events, the situation and progress
of the different stakes of Zion, the real
character and features of the religion we
profess, something of finance, an interest in
public enterprises, lessons of sympathy for
fellow-creatures, a social, sisterly feeling for
each other, the steadiness of nerve requisite
to stand on our feet and address a company
of our peers, and many other good and nec-
essary lessons.
	Among other things, it is necessary to
learn discrimination between good and evil
for ourselves, and not be dependent on
others for information on such subjects.
Then we should no longer be in such un-
wholesome fear of being sneered at as
'strong-minded," "blue-stocking" &c., and
if we go about on legitimate and honorable
business we cannot be frightened out of it
because some unworthy child of Adam
chooses to accuse us of "gadding."
	Although woman's first, and most likely
her last, duty is at her fireside, she has in-
termediate ones elsewhere. She should
visit the sick to surprise the weak appetite
with some dainty of her own preparation,
to lighten a heavy hour with her gentle con-
versation, or win for the sufferer a refresh-
ing slumber by fixing the attention of noisy,
neglected little ones with a pleasant story
or a new game.
	She should attend lectures, concerts, libra-
ries, art galleries and whatever means is
within her reach to inform her mind, relax
her nerves, and quicken her relish of life;
for by these means she gives her children
happy tempers, quick understandings and
healthy bodies.
	Be it remembered only, that recreation,
like labor, should be taken in such quanti-
ties as will invigorate, not weaken. And
no manifest duty should be set aside for
something more agreeable; but let us imi-
tate the school-boy who plays to rest from
study, and studies to rest from play.
	The great point which I wish to urge is
that the child of a cultivated mother is
more likely to be intelligent than the child
of an ignorant mother—a moral mother's
child will be moral, a capable woman's child
will be capable, a religious mother's child
religious &c. My firm belief is that the
mother who keeps home more strictly than
necessary, thus leading too narrow a life, is
farther from her duty than she who studies
to save labor that she may have time to
mingle with her kind, to inform her mind
and refresh her body. Indeed the latter
course is the duty of every mother so far as
it extends. It is foolish almost to wicked-
ness to consume time, strength and temper
in embroidering, tucking and ruffling what
we wear, when plain, neat garments are
just as pleasant to look upon, and far more
comfortable; or to spend the long fervid
hours of a summer's day over a roaring
stove, stirring, beating, frothing, mixing
unhealthful compounds to stimulate still
more our already vitiated appetites, and im-
pair still further our weak digestion, when
plain, simple diet is what we so much need
for our health's sake and to spare the blister-
ing, melting, laborious process of prepara-
tion.
	Let us examine all things in the light of
reason, and on each separate occasion go or
stay, do or leave undone, as our best judg-
ment dictates; and when duty says stay, do
so without a sigh for outside pleasures; but
when she says go, step forth in all the dig-
nity of conscious rectitude, heedless alike of
the fears of the timid and the scoffs of the
scornful.
						L. L. D.
	Beaver, April 2nd, 1874


POPULARITY.

	It is pleasant to be popular, but popularity
must not be gained at the expense of truth
and duty. None of the Old Testament
prophets were popular, nor was Christ. Their
mode, office and utteracnes gave offence.
When Phocion in the delivery of an oration
was warmly applauded, he asked his friends
what he had said that was wrong. Our
Savior told his disciples, "Woe unto you
when all men shall speak well of you, for
so did their fathers unto the false prophets;"
and when a Christian minister is popular
with "men of the world who have their
portion in this life," and they commend his
daily deportment and sermons, he may well
doubt whether he is doing his duty and
faithfully preaching the whole counsel of
God; for according to the ancient adage, “a
compliant temper makes friends, truth ex-
cites odium.” The pure doctrine and pre-
cepts of Christianity are humbling to proud
and earthly hearts, and therefore repulsive
to them.


A HAPPY THOUGHT.

	A story is told of Governor Chiltendon;
who was one of the early Governors of  Ver-
mont. He was quite an extensive farmer,
and in those days to be a Governor did not
greatly interfere with the incumbent's ordi-
nary vocation. He had two sons. One of
them a boy of bright intellect and the other
decidedly dull. The old gentleman thought
that nature had done enough for the young-
est and that he would make his way in the
world without more than a common-school
education, but that the elder one would need
all the aid of a liberal education to make up
the natural deficiency, and he was accord-
ingly sent to college, while his brother was
kept on the farm. It happened one spring
that among the fruit of the Governor's herd
was a very stupid calf. It would not suck
or drink, and no amount of effort on the
part of the father, son, or hired man, could
induce him to take his sustenance. After
repeated trials the good man’s patience
gave out, and he said to his son, “Freeman,
what on earth shall we do with this stupid
fool?” “I don’t know father,” was the ready
response, “unless we send him to college
with Martin.”


Would a man know himself, he must
study his natural temper, his constitutional
inclination, and favorite passions; for by
these a man’s best judgment is easily per-
verted, and a wrong bias hung upon his
mind. These are the inlets of prejudice,
the unguarded avenues of the mind, by
which a thousand errors and secret faults
find admission without being observed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿DICKENS AND HIS WIFE.
	The history of Charles Dickens' marriage
is simple enough.  He was at that time earn-
ing about thirty shillings a week, and met
Mrs. Dickens, then a moon-faced, fair-haired,
even-tempered, round-waisted, good-na-
tured, but very common-place English girl;
one of those women the height of whose
ambition is a large family, a little cottage, a 
new dress, a big bow and a merry Christ-
mas.  She was an honest, virtuous, simple-
minded, slightly romantic woman, whose
heart was in her home.  Charles Dickens
at that time was a young man of very ner-
vous temperament, with unbounded self-
esteem, and would have made a good hus-
band had he not been successful.  It was
after the birth of their second child that
Dickens began to realize the importance of
doing something to add to his "pot au feu."
He himself has often described with what
fear and trembling—having a wife and two
crying babes to provide for at home, and an
unlimited number of small creditors watch-
ing him—how he approached the great, big, 
yawning editor's box of Chapman & Hall,
and threw in his first two chapters of
"Sketches by Boz."  How astonished he was
a few days after to see an advertisement re-
questing "B[-]z" to call on the editor, and 
with what joy and trembling he returned
home and told his wife that he had been of-
fered £20 a chapter for his "Sketches."  The
era of Dickens' "Sketches" constituted the
happiest days of Mrs. Charles Dickens.
Often has the writer heard how Dickens
would read them to his wife and dance
wildly around the room.  With the close of
the "Sketches" began Mrs. Dickens troubles.
To better understand the gradual change in 
Charles Dickens' treatment of his wife, it is
necessary to analyze the character and train-
ing of the so-called common-place English
girl.  In this country the women easily 
adapt themselves to their positions in life.
In fact, in this country the woman generally
rises superior to the man.  Not so, however,
with the dull, good-natured, loving English
girl.  She, from her earliest childhood, is
brought up in a circle whose views are nar-
row and whose education is extremely lim-
ited.  The monotony of her existence is 
only broken by her regular attendance at
church and the counting of the household
linen on wash-day.  If she goes to the Crys-
tal Palace she will stare vaguely at the Cor-
reggio and make quaint remarks when
brought in contact with a "chief d'œuvre."
Her eyes will only sparkle as she sits in the 
buffet, or dining-room.  Her circle of acquaint-
ances will be among her own class, and that
class of society, like herself sees no beauty
in art, nor can appreciate true genius.  This 
is the character of Mrs. Dickens—a truly 
good-natured, loving, motherly woman.  So 
long as Charles Dickens had to buffet against
adversity, so long was he contented with
his little wife.  But as soon as Charles Dick-
ens began to be courted; as soon as he found
he was on the road to immortality and for-
tune; as soon as he began to mix in society,
and realized the extraordinary fascination
of mixing among the upper ten, then 
Charles Dickens, for the first time, looked
down upon his little wife, who could not do
justice to the name of her husband.  There 
is no mystery attached to the separation.—
"Cor. New York Hearld."


THE SEAT OF WAR.—A correspondent
asks if the seat of war is cushioned. If it
is not it ought to be; for it is not a very soft
seat at any time.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	SOME people have their thinking, like
their washing, done out.

	AT the laying of the corner stone of the
new capitol of Iowa no speeches were made
except a few brief and pointed remarks by a
workman who got his fingers pinched.

	THOSE who are continually wanting the
most are likely to prove, on investigation,
to be those who are wasteful and careless
with what they possess.

	"HARD Times" sociables are fashionable
in Western Pennsylvania. The guests are
compelled to appear in patched clothing,
and the refreshments consist of mush, milk
and potatoes.

	A HAPPY CUSTOM.—In Switzerland there
is a law which compels every newly mar-
ried couple to plant six trees immediately
after the ceremony, and two on the birth of
every child. They are planted on the com-
mon and near the road, and being mostly
fruit trees are both useful and ornamental.
The number planted amounts to 10,000 an-
ually.

	A WONDERFUL discovery has been made
at Corralville, Iowa. In the lime-pits,
while making a drill hole for a blast, the
tool struck something hard. It proved to
be a bronze shield,similar to those found in
the Island of Silt and Denmark. Although
much corroded, marks of blows can be seen
on it, and some remains of zigzag metal-
work.

	THERE are dangers ahead of us. We
should be maniacs, rather than patriots, to
think so well of our country as to suppose it
incapable of taking harm. We are threat-
ened by dangers from the increase of crimi-
nals, from the enlargement of the pauper
class, and from the decay of political sense
and political virtue among us. True wisdom
consists in frankly admitting these dangers,
and in honestly searching for the best means 
of counteracting them.

	CAUSE OF INTEMPERANCE.—One cause of
the commonness of intemperance in the
present state of things, is the heavy burden
of care and toil which is laid on a large mul-
titude of men. Multitudes to earn subsist-
ence for themselves and their families, are
compelled to undergo a degree of labor
exhausting to the spirits and injurious to
the health; of consequence, relief is sought
in stimulants. We do not find that civili-
zation lightens man’s toils; as yet it has in-
creased them, and in this effect I see a sign
of deep defect in what we call the progress
of society. It cannot be the design of the
Creator that the whole of life should be
spent in drudgery for the supply of animal
wants. That civilization is very imperfect
in which the mass of men can redeem no
time for intellectual, moral, and social cul-
ture. It is melancholy to witness the deg-
radation of multitudes to the condition of
beasts of burden. Exhausting toils unfit
the mind to resist temptation. The man
spent with labour, and cut off by his con-
dition from higher pleasures is compelled to
seek a deceitful solace in sensual excess.
One thing seems plain, that there is no ten-
dency in our present institutions and habits
to bring relief. On the contrary the, poor
seem to be more and more oppressed with
incessent toil, exhausting forethought, anx-
ious struggles, feverish competitions.—Dr.
Channing.


﻿DOCTOR CROCKWELL.
	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
		   ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
    Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m. 

MRS. CARPENTER,
		     Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.

			H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on

FIRST SOUTH ST., ½ BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

			Where he is prepared to do a 

WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE 
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
   up of the club          -          -         -        -       $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
    up of the club         -          -         -        -         26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
    up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
    ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
    Young, selling price, $2 50          -       -	     34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
    up of the club, and a superior first proof,
    steel engraving of President Brigham
    Young, handsomely framed, selling
    price $4      -          -       -       - 			    48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.

