
[the following is written by hand at the top of the page]
Kanab R. S.

Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

Vol. 31 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1 & 15, 1902 Nos. 1-2


[Column 1]
UTAH STATE PEACE POEM.
	[Written by Josephine Spencer of the Deseret
News staff at request of the members of the
National Committee, and recited at the peace
demonstrations on May 15.]
We lift our voices in a note grown strong
	With gathering cadence of a world-sung chord,
To hush the ancient dissonance of wrong,
	And drown it in the music of the Word
	Whose lulled sound the Syrian shepherds heard
Haunting the spaces on that star-choired morn,
When heaven’s new covenant with earth was
born.

Peace the first mission of the sphere-sung King,
	Peace the sole message of the chanting stars
That Pleiades loosed from her happy ring
	To light his pathway to earth’s prison bars.
	Yet since that time the crimson light of Mars
Has dimmed its whiter flame with earth’s own
voice.
Yielding the willing dictum of her choice.

So long its pleading, like an echo swung,
	Vainly among the chambers of lone hills,
Down the worn highways of the world has rung
	To harass heedless ears and idle wills,
	That hardly now its rising clamor stills
The old discordance of the war-throned hate,
Vaunting itself a dynasty of Fate.

Yet strong and clearer than a lark’s high note
	That herald morning’s dominant young light.
The message, taken into myriad throats,
	Chants of the nearing conquest of the night;
	Already robed and charioted for flight,
War sits. and watches for the protocol
Soon to be written on the nation’s scroll.

Only the ambush of a weakened will,
	The parley of a traitor faith may slay
The hope that brightens on the cloud-crowned hill
	Where yet War’s all but vanquished legions
	stay,
	No other night than this may give the day
Long vainly battled, to Wars straggling hosts
And yield God’s banner still to Evil's boasts.

So many crying causes need our aid—
	Bereavement’s murmur, long without reply,
And all the bitter wrack the curse has laid
	Wherever earth’s stained pastures face the sky,
	Shame lays its cloud on hands that idle lie
Letting the blight drag out its hated dole
To darken coming ages as they roll—

Eyes that look on, while Science, hand in hand
	With Art, and all her noble sisterhood
Join to build up a second Eden, planned
	By Progress, working towards the eternal good;
	To see its great deliverance withstood
By this one laggard, jealous of the tears
Yielded as earth's sore tribute through the years.

[Column 2]
Yet ours to say if still the alien state
	Of the dark monarch burden coming time,
While other evils crumble, and the date
	Of each year’s cycle builds into the rhyme
	Of Right and Beauty. Nurtured in the slime
Of greed and hate, shall still this despot fight—
A recreant tool against the hosts of light?

No giant lists like this has earth yet seen
	Brought to the crisis of a last affray;
Not Marathon or Leuctra, or the green
	Young fields of freedom in the newer day
	Vaunted a cause whose widening, heaven-led
	way
Promised this peerless guerdon for their grace—
To lift War’s shackles from the human race.

And we shall hold that guerdon—not as one
	Gained hardly, through a lengthening span of
	years—
But quickly, as a thing now nearly done;
	Even now we sight its place. Soon, too, the
	cheers
	Of many peoples watching through their tears,
Shall rise, and men loud hailing Earth’s release—
Shall tune their life-strings to the Psalm of Peace.

[There is a photo of 6 women, 3 seated in the front row and 3 standing directly behind them in the second (and final) row.]

[The following is below the photograph.]
Florence Ashton	Geneve Clark	Florence Lloyd
Augusta Bylund	Lillie Shipp	Hazel Jones

	Our new departure in this first number of the new volume is giving our readers
the pictures of some of the girl students of the Latter-day Saints University in Salt
Lake City. One sees at a glance in their faces innocence, truthfulness and a high
order of intelligence. It is not given to any of us to read the future, but we are safe
in predicting for these young girls a fulness of development physical, moral, spir-
itual and intellectual as the years go by, if the best use is made of the opportunities now
opening before them. Beautiful in its unfolding is the life of the innocent maiden and
contemplating the subject one recalls to mind Longfellow’s words:

[The following is written in two columns beside each other, beneath the above pargraph.]
[Column 2.1]
“How beautiful is youth! how bright it gleams,
With its illusions, aspirations, dreams!
Book of Beginnings, story without End,
Each maid a heroine and each man a friend!
Aladdin's Lamp and Fortunatus’ Purse
That hold the treasures of the universe!

[Column 2.2]
"All possibilities are in its hand,
No danger daunts it. and no foe withstands;
In its sublime audacity of faith,
‘Be thou removed!’ it to the mountain saith,
And with ambitious feet secure and proud,
Ascends the ladder leaning on the cloud!"


CONTENTS.
R. S. Reports......................................................	2
A Faithful Sister Gone...................M. A. Smart	2
The Flag Not Properly Protected.......................	3
General Conference Relief Society....................
	.................................................E. B. Wells	5
In Memoriam.....................................................	7
Anniversary Celebration..............Emily Layton	7
A Pleasant Gathering..............E. Crane Watson	7
“The Gipsy Queen”............................................	8
Red Cross Conference........................................	8
Notes and News..................................................	8

EDITORIAL—The Best Light and Knowledge..	4
	Primary Banquet.........................................	4
	Reception at the Bee Hive..........................	5
	Editorial Notes............................................	5

POETRY—Utah State Peace Poem...J. Spencer	1
	h e Master's Stroke...............Ellis R. Shipp	1


THE MASTER’S STROKE. 

Touch Thou with gentle strokes divine, oh Lord!
Discordant tendrils of life’s harpsichord;
O, let the vibrant echoes thus awoke
Within men’s souls, enobling thought evoke. 
Let sweetest accents from the worlds unknown,
Change solemn moan to gentle patient tone.  
Sublime, triumphal anthems fill the air, 
To lift all human hearts from mirage of despair.

Let every throbbing pulse in nature’s tune
Accord with thine for aye. Oh very soon,
Dear Lord, may waves of music from above
Inspire in mortal lives unselfish love,
Till through the universe from shore to shore 
No discords will be heard forevermore!
Till as themselves all love their fellow men— 
The worlds all sing in praise the grand amen.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Salt Lake-
Stake Relief Society was held on June 7,
1902, in the Assembly Hall. Meeting
commenced at 10 o’clock. President M.
I. Horne presiding.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith of the
General Society was present.
	Singing, “Do what is right.” Prayer
by Sister Mary A. Lambert. Singing,
“We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Roll called and minutes of last conference
read and accepted.
	President Horne said it seemed there
was a lack of interest in our conferences,
we should not let our worldly cares detain
us from our duties. Noticed that worldly
celebrations will bring out many sisters,
felt our duties should be first and pleasure
secondary. Spoke of the duties of the
sisters as Relief Society members and
daughters of our Father in heaven.
	President B W. Smith said remember to
the faithful the promises are made. Be-
lieved if we would pay our tithes and
offerings, keep the Sabbath day, etc.,
we would be more interested in our con-
ferences and other meetings.
	Sister Ruth M. Fox felt as she had
heard it expressed, that it takes all faith
and diligence and constant watching to
keep us in the line of our duty, felt thank-
ful she was worthy to be numbered with
these women here. Believed though we
do not meet the same trials that our parents
and older members of the Church had, we
will all be tested.
	Sister Maria Y. Dougall, counselor to
President E. S. Taylor, knew the Lord
would bless us in every effort we put forth
to build up his kingdom. Spoke of our
faithfulness in our first estate and the
privilege we now enjoy because of it. Said
not to ask honor of men, be humble and
work out our own salvation. We must
find the virtues of others; we must seek to
build others up if we wish to build our-
selves up. The Lord must have our co-
operation to bear off this kingdom.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, of the Salt Lake
Stake Board, spoke of the good example of
leading sisters of the Relief Society. Spoke
of the importance of the teachers in visit-
ing their blocks and in administering to
the needs of the people, relieving the dis-
tressed. Spoke of the spreading of the
Gospel truths. Said our aim was for an
exaltation, while those not of our faith are
merely seeking a salvation, we are respon-
sible for the way we live the Gospel. Our
acts with our children, in the home, before
our sisters, etc., are great responsibilities.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo,
“The End of the Way,” which was very
much enjoyed.
	President Horne spoke of the work re-
quired of us to gain an exaltation, also of the
sin of David. Our Father will deal justly
with us even though He is merciful. We
must pass through this second estate faith-
fully.
	Apostle J. H. Smith said mother
was the dearest word in the English lan-
guage, believed the woman is more willing
to bear the curse laid upon her than the
man. Men are not willing to be farmers
and producers but are seeking other em-
ployment. Manual labor is looked down
upon, but that is wrong.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.

[Column 2]
Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by President Sarah Jane
Cannon.
	Afternoon session, opened at 2 o’clock.
Singing, “Lord we come before Thee
now.” Prayer by Brother C. J. Thomas.
Singing, hymn, by the Temple sextette.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon, counselor in the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion, desired with all
her heart and soul to do her work in the
Relief Society. She prayed all might have
the spirit of the Relief Society work, she
knew that was necessary in Temple work
and it must be in the Relief Society. We
want to do all that we should. Our first
duty is to the poor, to take care of them,
we understand that, and there are many
other things required of us. We must be
diligent if we would obtain the promised
blessings. Made other very interesting
and instructive remarks.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said there
are so many things mothers should know;
they should gather the children and
teach them the principles of the Gospel, it
will tend to make our children waver if we
do not live lives of Latter-day Saints.
“My mother was a consistent Latter-day
Saint, she it was who made the deep im-
pression upon me.”
	Sister E. B Wells felt we ought, in the
Centre Stake, to have a house full. Bore
testimony of the divinity of the Gospel and
the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
“Very few understand the magnitude of the
Relief Society, much that is done cannot
be recorded. There are fifty Stakes and
about seven hundred branches, the average
attendance is very small. In far-off New
Zealand the attendance is almost the entire
enrollment. We have been given per-
mission to have mother’s classes in the
Relief Society, but the chairman of the
mother’s meeting is chosen by and subject
to the president of the respective society.
It is like the teacher of a school being
under the principal of the school.” Made
other suggestive remarks.
	Apostle J. Henry Smith said the work
of the Relief Society has been very great.
You can tell the character of a community
by a very brief visit among the women of
that community. If the ladies are not inter-
ested in all that makes progression, there
is a lack of thrift, both in the home and in
the community. In the homes where the
mothers are religiously inclined, the chil-
dren have been trained in the spirit, and
mothers have sought to impress upon them
the importance of industrial labor and other
virtues. The forceful power a mother has
upon the child will be plainly visible. The
president of Mexico had compared to him
the difference of the advantages of the
United States to that of his people, who
had been bound down by their conquerors.
He said: “Sisters, your education has been
to regenerate mankind. If you heard it in
foreign lands, you were convinced the Al-
mighty had spoken from the heavens and
you must have His blessing. Many of
you have separated from loved ones, every
effort was made to secure that which
would bring you to that which you know
to be all worth having. You have shown
your heroic character, laid the foundation
of home and invited others to partake of
the same privileges. The most successful
ones have been the girls, those who thro’
faith in God gathered to this remote
region. You have been schooled to
battle with the elements of nature”

[Column 3]
Spoke of the early days when the wife was
often deprived of her husband for the
numerous public duties and obligations,
mothers of their sons for the same cause.
Many have performed their duty to their
country with patriotic devotion, incom-
parable, impossible to tell how the women
have nobly done their part. “Sisters, I
have nothing but commendation and
blessings for you. Your sons have also
been defending their country in Cuba and
the Phillipines, no body of women have
been more heroic. You have contributed
to build this Temple for the redemption of
the dead and have been diligent in good
works from the beginning.
	Miss Owen sang a solo, “Beyond the
Gates of Paradise.”
	President John R. Winder felt that the
prophet made no mistake when he
organized the Relief Society. It has mul-
tiplied and increased, it was the first
auxiliary organization of the Church. “You
have accomplished a great deal of good and
are better prepared now than ever before
to go forward and do more. God bless
you; may your substance be multiplied
and your lives be prolonged until you are
satisfied.” Rejoiced in the great work.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke of the
women attending their meetings with their
babies in their arms as they do in the
outstanding Stakes. Felt they were noble
women to bear the spirits reserved to come
forth. How necessary to teach our daugh-
ters to be noble mothers.
	President Horne said the needs of society
work is not only to relieve the poor but to 
save souls, to increase faith in one another.
Cautioned the sisters to take good care of
the wheat and add to it this year. Bishop
Preston said to advise the sisters who had
no granaries to send the money they have
for wheat to Richfield, where they have a
very large elevator. Made closing re-
marks and adjourned conference for three
months.
	The Temple choir sang, “Praise to God
immortal praise.” Benediction by Apostle
J. H. Smith.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


A FAITHFUL SISTER GONE.
	Sarah Newton Jones, born December 20, 1840,
at Hale Forting Bridge, England, died May 10,
1902, at Union, Salt Lake Co. She was second
vice-president in our Relief Society.
	A faithful woman has left us, a wise counselor,
an active worker and an efficient teacher for a
number of years. An embodiment of all that was
good and virtuous, she never was blest with chil-
dren of her own, but was a noble woman and a
true mother to her husband’s family.
	She embraced the Gospel with her father’s
family in her girlhood, but was the only one of
her family that came to Utah and gathered with
the Saints. She crossed the plains in Captain
Warren Snow’s company and arrived in Salt Lake
City October 4, 1864. She was married to Brother
Daniel Jones the same year.
	She was taken sick at the East Jordan Stake
conference May 4. Her sickness was of short
duration but very severe. All that loving hands
could do for her was done by her husband and his
family, who mourn her loss. She was cheerful to
the last and we know of no one more fitted for the
change that awaits the faithful.
	The funeral took place on May 12. There were a
number of speakers from different parts of the
Stake who testified of her love and integrity for
the Gospel. We mourn her absence but rejoice in
her rest, for we know she will receive the reward
of the faithful.
		M. A SMART, Pres.
		MARY ANDERSON, 1st Vice-Pres.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE FLAG NOT PROPERLY PROTECTED.
	Notwithstanding the fact that the Star
Spangled Banner is the oldest flag of all the
civilized powers, there is no national law.
to protect it from desecration. This flag of
the thirteen colonies of North America was
adopted when at war with the mother
country in 1777. The yellow and red flag
of Spain came out in 1785: the French tri-
color in 1794; The red English emblem,
with the present Union Jack, dates from
1801; the Italian flag was first unfurled in
1848; the present German in 1871; and the
Russian tricolor is quite a recent affair.
	These countries have laws to punish
desecration of their national flag: 
	Italy.—Law of June 30, 1889, Articles
15, 115: “Whoever with intention of con-
tempt should take same, destroy or insult
in a public place, or in a place open to the
public, the flag or any other emblem of the
state, will be punished by detention from
three to twenty months.”
	Austria-Hungary.—The Hungarian
criminal law 50, 1879, paragraph 37, says:
“No more than two months’ arrest and
not more than three hundred florins fine
should be inflicted upon any one....
who, with intent to insult, defiles, damages
or tears down the flag or coat of arms
publicly, used as the insignia of either
civil or military authority.”

[Column 2]
	Germany.—Articles 135, 303, inflict a
fine up to three hundred thalers or punished
with imprisonment up to two years.
	Greece.—Act 141 of the penal code pro-
vides imprisonment and prosecution by the
district attorney of the place in which the
outrage of the flag is committed, with in-
carceration for three months maximum.
	Russia.—Penalty is two to nineteen
years in jail.
	Brazil.—Article 100 of penal code, for
desecration of national colors, has a
penalty of imprisonment for not less than
six months to one year. Decree No. 3,346
of the fourteenth of October, 1887,
places the penalty of insult to the flag, one
hundred to five hundred dollars.
	Mexico.—Has a legal provision against
the desecration of or insult to the national
colors.
	China.—Punishment under one of the
laws relating to the desecration of
insignia.
	Spain.—The penal code provides a penal-
ty for insult to or desecration of the nation-
al flag.
	Portugal.—Penal code, Article 424,181,
six months to one year’s imprison-
ment.
	France.—Desecration of the national

[Column 3]
flag punishable under Sections 257, 379 and 
75 of penal code. 
	Great Britain.—Outrage to the national
colors can be dealt with under the laws
dealing with sedition or treason.
	Chili, Peru, Bulgaria, Roumania, Bel-
gium, and all other foreign governments
which have no special legal provisions can
“bring an action before either the civil or
military tribunal for any injudicious use of
its national flag under a general provision
of the code.”
	In the United States there are state
laws, New York has one, so has Illinois
and Massachusetts.
	Several flag bills have been introduced
in the United States Congress, the first by
the late S. S. Cox in the seventies;
Twelve years later another bill passed the
House, but was rejected by the Senate.
Representative W. E. Barrett, of Massa-
chusetts, presented a bill and a petition
with 100,000 signatures, of no avail.
There is an American Flag Association,
Col. Ralph Waldo Prime, of New York,
president. Solidly organized, with com-
mittees of thirteen members each, repre-
senting various patriotic societies, it is
hoped that sufficient pressure will be
brought to bear to win national legislation.
	State legislation has been sought, eleven
falling into line.—Patriotic Review.

[written under an image of female students in the center of the page]
Laura Young		Jennie Taylor		Naomi Unger	Lydia Weston	Lizzie Emery		Martha Wilkinson	Afton Rampton
Jennie Burnham	Iris Reed				Ardella Romney		Elizabeth Cannon				Stella Paul
				Addle Cannon					Josephine Spillsbury				Maud Baxter

	This group of faces of the girl students at the L. D. S. University speaks volumes of itself to those who are care-
ful observers of the fruits of the Gospel. In this picture there are possibly, and indeed probably those who will be
teachers of the youth of Zion and the future mothers of Prophets and Apostles. Something of the destiny of Zion
lies with them. There is great need of strength of character and of superior ability, and these young students look
as if they might possess both. Let us hope that some of them will be writers, poets perhaps, and that they will
distinguish themselves in art, science and religion, above all true religion. The Savior said, “Where much is given
much is required,” and great things will be expected of the women of the future, and assuredly our girls
will be endowed with those virtues that are the peculiar adornment of true and refined womanhood.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
[-]econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1 & 15, 1902.


NOTICE.
	A booklet has been issued by the Gener-
al Relief Society, to which the following
note has been added since its publication.
It is inserted in the “EXPONENT” for the
information of persons who received copies
of the pamphlet previous to the insertion of
this addition:
	Note to page 77.—It is due to Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts to add that while the
importance and benefits of the establish-
ment of classes for instruction in nursing
were thought of and talked about for many
years before they were organized in this
Stake of Zion, the practical work and con-
duct of these classes was first undertaken
by her, and she is largely entitled to the
credit of the success that has attended
them under the auspices of the Relief
Society.”
	All inquiries in reference to the Relief
Society Mother’s Classes should be directed
to Ida S. Dusenberry, Provo, and all cor-
repondence relating to the Nurse Class or
Nurse Work, should be addressed to Annie
T. Hyde, 40 West, North Temple Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			ANNIE T. HYDE,
			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.


[Column 1]
THE BEST LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE.
	At the commencement of the new
volume it was ardently desired to have
some new departure in the paper, that
might awaken a greater interest in its
patrons; but the simple fact of its publish-
ing the Conferences of the Relief Society
and making it a record of woman’s work
in all lands, ought to endear it to our
sisters, who are engaged in charitable and
philanthropic work, for the advancement
of truth and its establishment, and be-
cause it stands for right and righteousness.
	In these last days that are so pregnant
with evil tendencies and influences, and the
insidious foes that lurk on every side to
lead astray the innocent and unwary and
make them forgetful of God and His
promises to the Saints, all that makes for
better hopes and aspirations, purer motives
and correct living should be fostered and
maintained.
	Life is full of opportunities for doing
good to others and especially are the
Latter-day Saints blest in having so many
avenues open to them of imparting knowl-
edge and intelligence. It is to the Saints
that the Lord is revealing His will concern-

[Column 2]
ing the earth and its inhabitants, and the
Elders and missionaries who go forth to
the world have a message to convey that is
not a myth but a reality. Women as well
as men have part and lot in this matter;
even our young women, though compara
tively few, may be sent to the nations, yet
they have many rare opportunities at home
to impart information that is entirely differ-
ent to the views of the world at large.
	The lessons our young girls are taught
of faith, obedience and fidelity are a power-
ful incentive to a higher and better life, and
if believed in and practised must uplift the
standard of excellence.
	If our sisters only lived up to their
privileges what an influence they might
exert over their associates and those with
whom they are constantly brought in con-
tact.
	And the work for the redemption of the
dead, there is no limit to the extent of this
field of labor. Perhaps none of us realize
the magnitude of this magnificent ministra-
tion in the Temples erected in this dispen-
srtion; where even many of our young peo-
ple have the sacred privilege of doing vicar-
ious work for those long since departed,
who cannot act for themselves.
	To no other people have these things
been revealed, and because of this spirit of
Elijah that has come, that will turn the
hearts of the fathers to the children and of
the children to the fathers, other Temples
must be built and dedicated to the Lord
that this may be accomplished.
	One is apt to reach backward to the
ancient temples of Egypt and India, and
the student of history ponders over their
greatness and their surpassing grandeur
and durability, and is filled with admira-
tion and astonishment at the workmanship
of these ancient peoples. But greater
works are to be manifest and miracles sur-
passing those of stone and mortar in the
years that are fast approaching, and the
children of the Saints will necessarily be
the builders of greater and more far-famed
temples than those of which we are now so
justly proud. To do this great and mighty
work those who would take part therein
must be endowed from on high, but they
must be in and of themselves above all else
pure in heart to have part and portion in
this marvelous work.
	The Prophet Jeremiah said of this day:
“It shall no more be said the Lord liveth
who brought up the children of Israel out
of the land of Egypt.
	“But the Lord liveth that brought up
the children of Israel from the land of the
North, and from all the lands whither he
had driven them, and I will bring them
again into their land that I gave unto their
fathers.
	“Behold I will send for many fishers and
they shall fish them, and for many hunters
and they shall hunt them from every
mountain and from every hill and out of
the holes in the rocks."
	But in the meantime there must be
character building that will surpass in true
merit the highest intellectual and spiritual
attainment of the present generation.
Are we laying this foundation in the
schools, the colleges and the homes of the
Latter-day Saints of today? Do the peo
ple, do the mothers of the time consider
the advantages coming to them and the re-
sponsibility resting upon them because of
these higher avenues that are constantly
being opened up in the spread of knowl-

[Column 3]
edge and of greater light, that has been
vouchsafed through the goodness and
mercy of our Father in heaven? Assured-
ly not, and perhaps it is best that we can-
not see too much at once, for we must only
take a step at a time and be lead by the
Spirit into the greater light, which even
now is almost beyond our capacity to
comprehend.
	Some of us who have seen the small be-
ginnings in this land when it was but a
desert, can scarcely credit the growth of
the cities and towns and surroundings
even now in evidence; it seems almost in-
credible that coming here without means,
obliged to depend upon the efforts of our
own toil, the Latter-day Saints by the help
of the Lord have made the desert “blossom
as the rose,” have filled this land so invit-
ingly with orchards and vineyards and
fields of golden grain.
	Notwithstanding what has already been
accomplished the work increases and as the
march of progress goes forward there is
necessarily more to do to keep up with the
times. Our young sisters will need to be
on the alert, consistently active and ener-
getic in the pursuit of knowledge and of
wisdom, and with great advantages of edu-
cation such as are now enjoyed in all the
arts and sciences, including inventions and
languages, remember always that the Gos-
pel is first and obedience is the first prin-
ciple that will lead to the fount of all true
wisdom.


PRIMARY BANQUET.

	After the General Conference of the
Primary Associations, which was held in
the Assembly Hall in this city, May 22,
1902, the General officers of the society
gave a banquet to the visiting represen-
tatives from the several Stakes of Zion to
which the First Presidency and Patriarch
of the Church, with other friends of the
cause were invited.	The large gathering
was given in the commodious rooms of the
Sixteenth Ward hall which is admirably
adapted to such occasions. There were
four long tables set the length of the hall
loaded with the delicacies of the season and
tastefully decorated with flowers. At the
head of one of the tables sat President
Joseph F. Smith and some members of his
family, including President Bathsheba W.
Smith, of the General Relief Society.	At
the head of another table near was Presi-
dent John R. Winder and wife and other
celebrities, and at another still was Sister
Aurelia S. Rogers, the originator of the
Primary Association movement. Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing. There were possibly from four
to five hundred guests assembled.
	Sister Aurelia S. Rogers made a brief
address in a very modest way on the
thought, development and outcome of the
Primary as a help in Zion. There were
songs and music and some dancing by the
little ones after the feasting was over.
Little Miss Williams sang “The Holy
City” in sweet, tender tones that thrilled
the audience.
	Later in the evening there was a trolley
ride through the city and extending to
Forest Dale, in which a large number of
the company participated.
	The whole affair was a perfect social
success and thoroughly enjoyable. Presi-
dent Louie Felt and her able corps of
assistants are to be congratulated, and de-


serve great praise for the happy thought
that brought together in such pleasant
fashion so many earnest workers, many of
them from remote localities.	The writer
extends thanks for the invitation which
gave her such a favorable opportunity of
meeting sisters from a distance, as well as
those very dear and honored ones of our
own city, whose busy lives hinder in a
great measure the social intercourse one
needs along life’s journey.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT			5


RECEPTION AT THE BEE HIVE.

	The Young Peoples’ Conference which
convened May 31 and June 1, 1902, was
preceded on the Wednesday evening pre-
vious by a reception tendered by the Gen-
eral Board to the representatives from all
parts of the Stakes of Zion or other locali-
ties.	The General officers of the Relief
Society were also honored with an invita-
tion, as were the Apostles, Presidents of
Seventies, Presidents of Stakes and other
brethren and sisters, several hundred in-
vitations being issued.	There was some
dancing outside on the lawn, and inside all
seemed royally happy.	President Joseph
F. Smith in a most genial and happy man-
ner acted as host to all the numerous
guests, and made every one feel the
genuineness of his hospitality and brotherly
love.
	During the evening there were a few
recitations given, some songs rendered
and good music furnished, and there were
also delicious refreshments served by a
bevy of interesting and attractive young
“Mutual” girls.
	The grand old historic house with its
spacious rooms is admirably suited to large
entertainments, and to those who have
known it in the palmy days of its original
owner, President Brigham Young, it re-
calls many interesting reminiscences that
stir one’s soul to its very depths, and yet,
when filled with the happy throngs of
eager and genuine Mutual Improvement
workers it brings vividly to view the pres-
ent and future of Zion’s development and
growth; and what must eventually be the
results of these earnest and devoted mem-
bers of this great and grand organization
on the growth of Zion: the strength of
Israel’s hosts in this goodly land. 	It is a
real vision one may well contemplate with
hopefulness and expectancy of the great
triumph of truth over error in the ultimate
achievements of the splendid work of
spreading the Gospel far and wide to all
lands and among all peoples. This bring-
ing into nearer social relations these bands
of young men and women will assuredly
give them insight into each others lives
that will be delightful in its after thought
and effects, and the benefits must certainly
be of a stimulating and inspirational char-
acter, entering into the home and social
surroundings of even those far off.


[column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Through the courtesy of  Prof. Paul of
the L. D. S. University we are able to give
two pictures of “our girls,” students in
that famous school.	The offer to allow us
to use them was a kindly and polite favor,
and the editor takes pleasure in acknowl-
edging the same with sincere thanks.

	The Relief Society pamphlets recently
issued by the General officers of the Society

[column 2]
are for sale at the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and it is the wish of those
interested in the book that it should be in
the hands of all officers of the society as it
contains general instructions and other
matter for the sisters,that will promote the
growth and development of the society.
Price 25cts.
	The election of officers of the Utah
Society Daughters of the Revolution
occurred on Tuesday, June 10, 1902, at 3
p. m., in the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, State Regent Mrs. Clarissa S.
Williams in the chair. Officers selected for
the ensuing year are as follows:	Regent,
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth; First Vice-
Regent, Mrs Isabel M. W. Sears; Second
Vice-Regent, Mrs. Ella W. Hyde; Cor.
Sec’y, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie; Rec. Sec’y,
Mrs. Elizabeth R. Wright; Assistant Rec.
Sec’y, Clarice Y. Spencer; Treasurer, Mrs.
Myra Y. Rossiter; Registrar, Mrs Mary E.
R. Webber; Historian, Mrs. E. B. Wells;
Chaplain, Mrs. C S. Williams; Press Com-
mittee, Mrs. Claire C. Benedict and Mrs.
Julia F. Lund.
	The several Conferences so far visited by
the General Board and missionary sisters
since the notices sent out to each Stake on
the list of appointments, are: East Jordan,
Emery, Nebo, Juab, Beaver, Parowan,
Bear Lake, Tooele, Pocatello, North and
South Sanpete, Cassia, Union, Box Elder,
Malad and Sevier.	The sisters who have
gone to these Conferences are: Counselors
Annie T. Hyde and Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry, Sisters E. B. Wells, Secretary, and
Clarissa S. Williams, treasurer, of the
General officers, Sarah J. Cannon, Susan
Grant, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Julia P. M.
Farnsworth and Phebe Y. Beatie, of the
General Board.	Assistants Margaret A.
Caine, L. L. Greene Richards and Lydia
D. Alder.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates, of Provo, who was
elected chairman of the Press Committee
of the National Council of the United
States last February has been given the
proxy ship of the International Council of
Women for its executive session this year
in Copenhagen, Denmark, Mrs. Ida
Husted Harper, the chairman, not being
able to attend herself.	This gives Mrs.
Gates a great opportunity to display her
powers as a writer and correspondent in
sending out matter to the various countries,
not only of Europe, but other lands	It
will bring her in contact with able writers
and newspaper people the world over al-
most, who will be in attendance at this im-
portant session.	This is the third session
of the International Council since the
Quinquennial in London in 1899. The
next Quinquennial will be held in Berlin,
Germany, in 1904.	There will be one
more executive session in 1903, the time
and place yet to be determined.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society which was held on Monday, April
7, 1902, convened in the L. D. S. Hall in
Salt Lake City, at 10 a. m., President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.
	Conference opened by singing, "Come,
let us rejoice," etc An eloquent prayer
that touched every heart was offered by
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams. Continued by
singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet" The secretary, Mrs. E. B.

[Column 2]
Wells, called the roll of officers and General
Board, nearly every one present; also
called the presidents of Stakes, over forty
responding.
	President B. W. Smith greeted the con-
gregation with a hearty welcome. She
said: "I am happy to meet with you this
morning, glad to see so large a congrega-
tion assembled, feel we are engaged in a
glorious work. Being crowded together as
we are here in this room will perhaps make 
us feel more the need of a place of our own
and encourage us to bring our mites to-
gether for a building such as we have been
talking of for some time. I will say there
is to be a Memorial Hall to the Prophet
Joseph erected on this block and it will be
large enough to have offices for all the
General authorities of the Church, the
Relief Society will have their building
with this, as will the Young Ladies’
and Primary associations, and it will be
better for us than any other way. The
Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society
and gave us many instructions how to
carry on our meetings and how to treat
each other. May the Lord bless us in this
conference.”
	All reports from Stakes were limited to
three minutes.
	Morgan Stake was represented by
Lydia Rich, who reported they were all
united and had visited twice a year regu-
larly. 
	Alberta, Canada reported by Sister 
Katharine Pilling who stated they were
trying to do the best they could, had
visited all around this year giving all the
encouragement possible and urged the 
people to attend to their duties.
	Benson Stake, President Rebecca Raw-
lins, the Stake has been recently organized
in November, 1901, had held one confer-
ence and done some visiting among the
sisters.
	Beaver by Sister Jane Bickley who gave
a good account of the work and spoke in
praise of Sister Shepherd, the president,
who had recently been very sick and was
not able to come to conference.
	Bingham, President Emma J. Bennett,
felt good in beholding the faces of so many
mothers and dear old sisters, and the pic-
tures of our prophets that were hung upon
the walls, thought we ought to feel happy
in such a gathering. In her Stake the
sisters were trying to help with means for
the building and also to save grain and to
magnify their calling by doing every duty.
	Box Elder, President Susannah P.
Booth was glad to meet with the sisters
and could make a good report for Box
Elder Stake, sisters were faithful and
energetic, had given liberally for the
building and were always ready to respond
to every call made upon them, were dili-
gent in attending to the sick and the
needy.
	Cache Stake reported by Sister Margaret
Merrill, treasurer, who gave an excellent
account of the condition of the sisters and .
of the labors and duties performed by
them.
	Emery Stake by Sister McKee, Hunting-
ton, who spoke of the reorganization, and
that very little time had elapsed since but
the wards were all in good condition and
the presiding sisters were prepared to go
ahead with the visiting around among the
people.
	Granite Stake, President Emma S.
Woodruff, “Our Stake is in good condition,


[Column 1]
our officers’ meetings are very beneficial,
we have the missionaries and we change
from one ward, to another to visit our sis-
ters, and we also have two appointed to
visit those living among us who are not of
our faith.”
	Jordan Stake represented by Counselor
H. H. Larson, who gave a most excellent
report of their financial condition and the
liberal contributions of the society to the
Woman’s Building, thought all were dili-
gent.
	Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe then ad-
dressed the conference upon Domestic
Science, speaking first to the mothers and
grandmothers, of the wonderful experiences
and success in raising good children under
such adverse circumstances and helping to
make Zion beautiful and filling it with
happy homes. Referred to the daughters
who expect to marry and become mothers,
thought they should be taught in the
science of housekeeping and home making.
Said we now have the schools where
domestic science is taught and they will be
of great benefit in the community. Our
girls many of them never do anything in
their homes, she knew of girls who had a
fine education, could play the piano, but
could not even make a plain gingham
apron, and they marry and are not quali-
fied to perform the duties or superintend
the home. By and by, children are born
and cares increase and duties multiply and
they are not equipped for the struggles that
must be met. One of the first things
necessary is to know how to make good
bread. Mothers are sometimes at fault in
not teaching the girls because it is easier
to do it themselves, but it is the duty of
every girl to look into these domestic mat-
ters and prepare for home making and life
will be sweeter and better.
	Kanab Stake President, Artemissia Seeg-
miller said we have one ward in which we
have no Relief Society at present but we
expect to organize there soon, we are very
united and we are trying to live up to
every requirement; we recently had a visit
from Sister E. J. Stevenson. We very
rarely have our sisters from the city, as we
are remote from railroads and at some
times of the year it is bad traveling. We
are doing all we possibly can under the
circumstances in our locality.
	Malad Stake reported by Counselor
Mary Stewart who gave a good report
and spoke kindly of the president, Lucinda
Hoskins thought the sisters were diligent
and trying to do all in their power and
were deserving of great credit.
	Parowan Stake reported by Sister Lettie
Dailey, president of the Relief Society at
Summit. They had not held conference as
usual because of contagious disease, meet-
ings had to be discontinued, but knew all
were trying to do their best.
	St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, represented
by Sister Virginia Majors who had recently
come from that country. The president
and counselors were united and doing a
most excellent work, their labors were
highly appreciated, thought they were
striving to do all in their power.
	Teton Stake, President Sophia Rigby
said that Stake had only been organized
the 1st and 2nd of September, 1901, six
months, had held officers meetings month-
ly, were trying to do every duty they had
been counseled to do, and tried to be
energetic and aim for the best in all things.
	Wasatch Stake, President Annie R.
Duke. “We try and visit our Stake

[Column 2]
regularly, we advise the sisters to give to
the Building and to the dime fund.” Spoke
of being in Nauvoo when the society was
organized, though only a child.
	Union Stake, Oregon. President Mary
E. Schofield reported Union as a very new
Stake had recently added one more ward
making seven branches. “We are trying to
do our duty and are desirous of learning,
and to be in unison with other Stakes and
keep up with them. We are glad of this
opportunity of attending a General Con-
ference of the Relief Society.
	Pocatello Stake reported by Counselor
Matilda Smith who spoke of the great
work done in that city and of the desire
the sisters manifest to know what to do in
the way of improvement.
	Hyrum Stake, President Mary E. How-
ells said, “We have ten wards and we are
very new in the work, have only had one
conference, I am glad to be here to report,
we have donated liberally to the Building
and have paid our ten cent fund also.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry made
some explanations about giving individual
receipts, these must be given in the ward to
which the one who donated belonged.
	The treasurer, Clarissa S. Williams,
made some further explanations about
giving receipts.
	First Counselor Annie T. Hyde gave
notice to the presidents of Stakes about the
conferences being visited and explained in
regard to the appointments sent out.
	The secretary read notices of other
meetings and spoke of the lunch which
was waiting in Richards Street.
	Morning session closed with singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning,”
etc. Dismissed with prayer by President
M. Isabella Horne.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m., at the
Assembly Hall, President B. W. Smith
presiding, opened by the Temple choir
singing, "Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Sister Julina L. Smith. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.”
	President B. W. Smith was pleased to
see so many present and spoke a few mo-
ments on the necessity of the sisters keep-
ing the word of wisdom and of paying
their tithes and donations, and that they
would be blest in so doing.
	Apostle Reed Smoot, who had just come
into the hall, made an eloquent address,
thought it a privilege to speak to those
assembled; in looking over the audience
and observing those who had labored so
long and faithfully, he recognized their
devotion to the principles of the Gospel
and fidelity to the truth. The First Presi-
dency and Apostles, Presidents of Stakes
and all the authorities in the Church appre-
ciate the Relief Society, they know where
to turn when there is need of help. “We
younger people have to live about a life
time to find out who our friends are. We
find after our mother is gone that there is
no such friend as our mother was, and yet
there is wisdom perhaps even in that.
When I have been in the world and heard
the women of Utah spoken evil of I have
wished they could come and know and feel
the spirit of the work in which the sisters
are engaged.” Apostle Smoot urged the
sisters to teach their boys reverence for the
priesthood, have them ordained deacons
and move forward and they will go on and
become useful men. “God bless our girls,
for they will not marry those who will not
go into the House of the Lord. I know
the sacrifice our s[--]ters are willing to make.

[Column 3]
I know the sacrifices by my own mother,
how true and faithful she was in the midst
of trial, though I did not realize it then.
The whole burden of the conference just
past was that ‘Zion is growing.’ The
time is coming when womanhood will be
advanced. God is the Father of our spirits
and we will bring our children forth in
purity and prepare them to go back into
the presence of our Father in heaven. I
feel we are working to this end, I feel that
you are and have been working along these
lines. In regard to woman suffrage that
has been given to us, you who have worked
for it have helped to bring it to the climax
it has reached.” Apostle Smoot then
answered some questions in regard to
women presiding and commended the sis-
ters labors in the highest terms, and closed
by saying, “God bless you and peace be
with you and keep you safe, and may you
go forward increasing in numbers and all
is that good.”
	Mrs. Hal J. Moore sang “Jesus, my
Redeemer.”
	The secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, read
the annual report and made some remarks
concerning the energy of the Relief Society
sisters in New Zealand and the Sandwich
Islands. The report was approved as read.
	First Counselor Annie T. Hyde said in
looking over the congregation and think-
ing of the love that had been inspired that
could bring them together, she had thought
of Sister Eliza and Sister Smith, Sister
Richards and Sister Zina, whose words had
been like music in our ears all the time.
We have all thought and wondered what
we could do to make our meetings more
interesting to the young women. We
want lectures given on all subjects that
will increase our intelligence There are
different people who have made a life study
of special subjects, and if you sisters do not
feel like doing these things yourselves, call
upon those who are prepared to do this.
See if you can’t bring your attendance up
to the enrollment, urge all to join and
bring them up to the standard of excellence
that our Relief Society should come up to
and be progressive, se ure lecturers, etc.,
look after new conver s, they come here
and feel that they are alone, when in their
little branches the Elders look after them.
Try and make them feel as if they have
friends and draw them near to you, and
invite them to come out and join the Relief
Society and try aud make them feel con-
tented, and may we grow and increase in
knowledge and intelligence.
	President Jane S. Richards, of Weber
Stake, said we did not look like strangers
to her, she had been pleased with what had
been said. We have had good times in the
past and we will in the future. Spoke of
her experience as counselor to Sister Zina
and that she had wanted her to advise and
to talk more. She said, “Now, you who
are counselors stand right up to your
president and if she don’t see everything
advise her if you see things that she don’t
see. The first thing that was given me to
to do was to take care of the sick. Sisters,
take care of those who are sick whether in
your own house or your neighbor’s. Every
member or teacher will feel better when
they go to their meetings; and take the
children to meeting and bring the young
men to Relief Society meetings and let
them see and hear that it may be useful
when they go out into the world and are
called upon to assist or give counsel to the
sisters.” Related some incidents in her


[Column 1]
experience with Sister Eliza R. Snow when
visiting through Weber county.
	Mrs. Emma A. Empey, superintendent
of the Nurses’ class, presented a brief and
concise report in writing, which was very
well received and very appreciative of the
work which had been accomplished.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts made some pre-
liminary remarks and then read an ably
written paper entitled, “What shall we do
with our girls ? What shall we do with
our women ?”
Brother George D Pyper sang a solo,
“Sometime, Somewhere,” and was per-
suaded to sing again, “There is sunshine
in my soul today."
A vote of thanks was tendered to Prof.
C. J. Thomas, to Mrs. Hal J. Moore and
George D. Pyper for the excellent music
they had given, which had added so much
to our conference.
	Sister C. S. Williams explained the ten
cent fund and First Counselor Annie T.
Hyde gave notice of the pamphlet in pro-
cess of publication. Sister Emily S. Rich-
ards announced a suffrage meeting to be
held in the Assembly Hall at 11 o’clock a.
m. on Tuesday, April 8.
	Meeting was adjourned to half past
seven in the evening. Singing, Doxology.
Benediction by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
	Evening sessson, half past seven, First
Counselor Annie T. Hyde presiding.
Singing, “Let us pray, gladly pray.”
Prayer by Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
Singing, “I’ll praise my Maker while I’ve
breath.”
	Opening remarks were made by the pre-
siding officer. Counselor Annie T. Hyde, in
which she expressed regret at the absence
of the President and introduced the princi-
pal speaker of the evening, Dr. J. M. Tan-
ner, who made an eloquent address on
motherhood and the spirit of liberty and
of heavenly charity; giving many incidents
illustrative of the power and good effects of
generosity as opposed to the narrow and
selfish attributes of character; he com-
mended the work of the Relief Society, its
benevolent and uplifting character, and ex-
pressed his reverence for those who had
labored so long and faithfully in planting
good seed in the hearts of the young peo-
ple that had developed and brought forth
such good results; knew that such labors
were beneficial to the community and
broadened the people among whom they
ministered, diffusing common sympathy,
and uniting forces active for good.
Thought it dangerous to allow selfishness
to intrude into the home, generous feelings
were what would tend to a higher life, this
is a matter of psychology and should be
studied carefully in the child by the teach-
er. The Relief Society should encourage
the mother who in her home sets the ex-
ample of liberality and who will impart it
to her unborn children. Gave some illus-
trations and referred especially to the
generous qualities possessed by President
Joseph F. Smith, which endeared him to
his family and to the people, his tender-
ness in the home especially. Prof. Tan-
ner’s address was a glowing tribute to
those engaged in Relief Society work.
	Sister Margaret Hull rendered, in her
sweet voice, a solo, “Is the way so dark ?”
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry made
a brief address, explained in regard to the
Parents Class in Provo and spoke of the
way in which the Relief Society was in-

[Column 2]
troducing a new departure, and suggested
methods of improvement.
	Sister Alice M. Horne occupied a few
minutes in speaking upon art in the home,
made some excellent suggestions in regard
to harmony in furnishings and also of
color, said the people should be the princi-
pal part of the house, preferred rugs that
could be taken up and cleaned to car-
pets and advanced some good ideas in re-
gard to home-making.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde presented the
matter of Nurses Classes to the presidents
of Stakes and made some practical sugges-
tions about the arrangements, Dr. Roberts
had promised to teach another class this,
year, said every girl who expects to be
a mother should take a course of these
lectures, whether she ever needs to be a
nurse or not, asked that all who wished
information on the subject would write to
her. Mrs. Dusenberry made the same re-
quest in regard to Parents Classes.
	Congregation sang the Doxology and
Conference was adjourned for six months,
to October, by the presiding officer, Mrs.
Hyde. Dismissed with prayer by Mrs. E.
B. Wells.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


6 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.												7


IN MEMORIAM.

ISABELLA WILLIAMS.

	It has become our painful duty to announce the
death of one of our beloved sisters of the Syracuse
Relief Society, Isabella Williams, wife of E. H.
Williams, aged thirty-nine years, who passed
away Sunday morning, April 27. She had been
troubled for several years with leakage of the
heart, but was confined to her bed only a few
days.
	The deceased was a faithful member of the
Relief Society since its first organization and filled
the office of visiting teacher. She was a model
wife and mother and endeared herself to those
around her by her kindness in times of sickness.
She possessed an affable, pleasant nature and won
the esteem and good feeling of her many acquain-
tances. She leaves a husband and seven sorrow-
ing children, who will feel the loss of an affection-
ate wife and loving mother until that joyful time
when they will again meet and enjoy her society
in a state far more happy and glorified.
	MARIA COOK, Sec.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO ELIZABETH T. SHELLEY.

	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to call from us on May 24, 1902, our associate and
colaborer, Sister Elizabeth T. Shelley, who, al-
though having laid helpless on her bed for three
months with that dreadful disease, cancer, was
patient and cheerful to the last. She was first
vice-president in the 4th ward Relief Society of
American Fork, a sincere and earnest worker in
the cause of truth, a virtuous and loving wife,
a kind and faithful mother. She was the mother
of twelve children, six of whom survive her.
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of
the society, feel the loss of such a faithful worker
in the cause of truth and that we humbly acknowl-
edge an over-ruling Power who doeth all things
well.
	That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the
husband and family and one be sent to the
“EXPONENT” for publication. 
ALICE G. STEELE,
NANCY B. FORBES,
SARAH H. SHELLEY,
	Committee
Relief Society, 4th ward American Fork.

HANNAH E. CROMPTON.

	A token of respect and remembrance of our be-
loved sister, Hannah E. Crompton, who departed
this life March 14, 1901. Sister Crompton was
born in Olden, Lancashire, England, 1815. She
came to this country in 1844, and was married
to Brother John Crompton in Council Bluffs, 
March 1, 1850. She held the position of second
counselor in the Relief Society in American Fork
for eighteen years. As a teacher, wife, mother
and friend her example was worthy of imitation.
She was one of the noblest of God’s handmaidens


and was faithful through all trials and tribulations 
that beset her pathway. And we, as members of 
the Relief Society of the Freedom Ward of San-
[-]ete Stake of Zion, form the following resolutions: 
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas God has seen fit to call from this life 
our beloved sister, Hannah E. Crompton,
	Resolved, That we mourn in her death the loss 
of a faithful worker, a comforter in the hour of 
trouble, a devoted wife and mother and a true 
Latter-day Saint. 
That we esteem her faithful labors worthy of 
emulation by every member of the society, that 
we sympathize and mourn with the aged husband, 
the children, grandchildren, great grandchildren 
and friends. 
That we send a copy of these resolutions to the 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, that a copy 
be kept in the society and that one be given to her 
husband, Brother John Crompton. 
MARY E. SIMONSEN, 
FLORENCE LOWRY, 
NELLIE DRAPER.


ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION. 

	We wish to inform you that our little
village of Freedom held its anniversary 
meeting on Monday, March 18, 1902, to 
commemorate the organization of the 
Relief Society at Nauvoo in 1842. 
	On account of the loss of our beloved
sister, Hannah Crompton, our gathering
was partly to pay our tribute of respect to
her as well as the anniversary.
	The meeting was called to order by
President Mary E. Simonsen. Singing,
"Come ye children of the Lord." Prayer
by Brother Joseph Draper. Singing,
"Weary not." Roll was called, minutes
read and approved Welcome speech by
President Mary E. Simonsen, who said we
had met in commemoration of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and read a few lines from
his teachings. She spoke in high esteem
of our departed sister, Hannah E. Cromp-
ton.
	Song by Sister Mattie Draper and com-
pany. Select reading from the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT by Sister Florence Lowry.
Reading by Sister Phoebe Draper. Reading
of resolutions of respect in memory of
Sister Hannah E. Crompton, by Sister
Emily Taylor.
	Brother John Crompton spoke to the
sisters, encouraging them to continue in 
the good work; also read a selection en-
titled "The Grove." Recitation by Sister
Minnie Lowry. Song by Sister Jane
Hunt.
	Bishop William Lowry spoke very en-
couragingly in behalf of the Relief Society,
also in kind remembrance of Sister Cromp-
ton.
	Brother Almon Draper also felt well in
being privileged to meet with the society.
Remarks by Brother Joseph Draper. 
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Brother Almon
Draper.
		EMILY TAYLOR, Sec. pro tem.


A DELIGHTFUL GATHERING. 
	Our Relief Society of Parowan have
taken up a very commendable labor, that
of taking a meeting to the aged or en-
feebled, not able to attend the regular
sessions They arrange a program and
take refreshments, and if necessary do
sewing for the parties they visit. Very
happy results are realized, and in this way
it becomes established that our organiza-
tion is a power for good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Yesterday, May 20, a public social gath-
ering convened in honor of one of our aged 
sisters, Phebe Benson, who was the first
president of the Relief Society of this ward, 
and has ever been an active, energetic 
worker in all righteous causes, in fact, she 
has been a dear mother to the Parowan
community.
	The program consisted of a biographical 
sketch of Sister Benson, speeches, songs,
recitations, etc.; the most beautiful feature 
being the song, “Be Kind to the Old
Folks,” by her children, grandchildren and 
great grandchildren. An Album was pre-
sented in behalf of the Relief Society, in 
which the biographical sketch is to be 
written and the autograph of every mem-
ber of the Relief Society. 
Sister Benson responded very feelingly, 
extending her love and blessing to every 
creature in the ward. She said she felt 
that she was connected to all and her heart 
was filled with blessings for all. 
Grandma Benson was tastily dressed, and 
in her beautifully decorated seat of honor, 
looked as grand as a queen on her throne, 
and indeed she was queen of hearts, such a 
unity of spirit is rarely enjoyed. 
Sister Benson is on the verge of her 
eighty-second birthday, is the mother of 
eight children, has forty-five grandchildren
and sixteen great grandchildren. Her 
faculties are bright and she is still indus-
trious. At the present time she is em-
broidering Temple aprons and doing other 
light work; and if one is needing counsel, 
it is safe to go to Grandma Benson, who 
has truly “grown old beautifully.”
	E. CRANE WATSON.


"THE GIPSY QUEEN." 
	The operetta, "The Gipsy Queen," pre-
sented in the Opera House at Provo by the 
Brigham Young Academy kindergarten 
department, was one of the most beautiful 
entertainments imaginable, and shows 
wonderful talent and willingness to learn 
on the part of the little folks, and at the 
same time reflecting great credit on their 
teachers. The leading roles--"Rosalie," 
"The Fairy Queen" and "Mother Grunt," 
assumed by Miss Margaret Dusenberry, 
Miss Lorie Eggertsen and Miss Jessie 
Ramsey, respectively, were well sustained. 
Little Miss Dusenberry had a very lengthy 
part and won the hearts of the audience by 
her good singing and earnest work. In 
Miss Ramsey's second role, that of a boy, 
her fine contralto voice was heard to good 
advantage, and the duet by her and little 
Miss Margaret was very prettily sung and 
cleverly acted. 
Miss Agnes Clive and Miss Ethel Beasley, 
little girls from Salt Lake City, apparently 
about seven or eight years of age, took the 
house by storm with their specialties, Miss 
Clive as a violinist and Miss Beasley as a
dancer.
	The choruses were fine, and the scenic 
effects, costumes, etc., were very beautiful.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO 
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for you money. TRY US 

[Column 2]
American Institute
of Phrenology, 
Incorporated 1886, 
OPENS ITS NEXT SESSION 
SEPT. 3, 1902. 
For particulars apply to the Secretary, 
M. H. Piercy, care of Fowler & Wells Co., 
14 East 22nd Street, New York. 
Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
	Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
	The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW. 
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


RED CROSS CONFERENCE. 
	St. Petersburg, June 5.-- The Inter-
national Red Cross conference has ad-
journed. The conference passed resolu-
tions urging all countries to prohibit the 
use by manufacturers for commercial pur-
poses of the Red Cross symbols and to give 
manufacturers six months' notice of this
decision.
	After relating instances in which the 
Red Cross privileges have been abused, 
the Belgian International Ambulance corps
resolved that every state is bound to exer-
cise strict supervision over the private relief 
expeditions organized in its territory; that 
no such organization should leave the state 
without authorization from the government, 
and that such expeditions should not be 
allowed to use the Red Cross unless they 
have been recognized by some Red Cross 
society. The Belgian International Ambu-
lance Corps recommended the establish-
ment of international bureaus to supply in-
formation concerning prisoners of war, aid 
societies, etc.; that the maritime Red Cross
stations should agree to receive all the 
wounded and sick persons gathered by 
hospital ships without distinction of nation-
ality; that it was desirable for the Red 
Cross societies to prepare for relief in time
of war by active service in time of peace 
and finally, that the powers take steps to 
bring about the execution of article 10 of 
The Hague convention, which has not yet 
been ratified. 
At the last dinner given in honor of the 
delegates to the conference, Prof. Martens, 
professor of international law at the 
University of St. Petersburg, referred in 
glowing terms to the humane arrangements 
that exist in American cities for the care of 
the public. Mrs. W. P. Foster rreplied to 
Prof Martens in a graceful address.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
	We are too fond of our own will. We 
want to be doing what we fancy mighty
things; but the great point is to do small
things, when called to them, in a right 
spirit.- R. CECIL. 
	The Women's National Liberal Federation 
of England has voted to support no candi-
dates for Parliament except those who will 
pledge themselves, if elected, to vote for 
full suffrage for women. 
	Miss Jane Addams was severely injured 
last week in a wreck on the Santa Fe 
railroad at Revere, Mo., on her way home 
from Los Angeles. She was seated with 
her nephew in the last car. The train
while runing at high speed was derailed 
by striking a switch. Miss Addams was 
nearly buried in the wreckage, and when 
she was rescued it was found that her face 
was badly lacerated and her left arm in-
jured. 
	Florence Nightingale celebrated her eigh-


ty first birthday, May 15, at Claydon House 
Buckinghamshire, the country seat of her 
sister, Lady Verney. There was no pub-
lic demonstration, just an informal gather-
ing of a few of her friends. A striking 
instance of the love and veneration felt for 
Miss Nightingale by English soldiers was 
lately given by a contemporary: The late 
Sir John Steell, sculptor to Queen Victoria, 
had modelled a bust of Miss Nightingale. 
An officer of one of the Highland regiments 
which had suffered so cruelly in the Cri-
mean heard that the bust had just been 
completed and was in Steell's studio. 
Many of the men in his company had 
passed through the hospital at Scutari, and 
he got permission from the sculptor to 
bring some of them to see the bust. Ac-
cordingly, a squad marched into the studio 
and stood in line. They had no idea why 
they had been mustered in so strange a 
place. The bust was uncovered and then, 
as by one impulse, the men broke rank 
and with cries of "Miss Nightingale! Miss 
Nightingale!" surrounded the model, and 
with hats off, cheered the figure of their 
devoted nurse until the roof rang. Like 
Clara Barton, Florence Nightingale has 
been a lifelong advocate of equal rights for 
women. Years ago she wrote "You ask 
my reasons for believing in woman's suf-
frage. It seems to me almost self-evident, 
an axiom, that every tax-payer ought to 
have a voice in the expenditure of the 
money pay, involving, as this does, inter-
ests that are the most vital to a human
being.”


Woman's Exponent. 
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
Vol. 31	 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1 & 15, 1902		Nos. 3-4


CONTENTS.
Notes and News.............................9
Mrs. Horne Home...............................9
Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting...A. Wardrop 10
Both Parents Needed..........................10
L. D. S. Ladies Department.................11
Reception and Banquet.......Mary A. Perkins 14
In Memoriam............L L. Greene Richards 15
R. S. Report...........................................16
EDITORIAL—Editorial Work......................12
	Birthday Party................................12
	Editorial Notes.................................13
	Three Quarters of a Century................13
POETRY—Let There be Peace......Ruth M. Fox 9
	Make My Heart Brave........Annie Pike 11
	Commissioned...............Susan Coolidge 11


LET THERE BE PEACE 
You question, what can woman do 
To spread the day of peace? 
Can she demand disarmament, 
Or bid a world cease 
That which for ages it maintained, 
A dire necessity, 
To secure the rights of nations 
And obtain equity ?

Oh, what shall woman do indeed, 
Shall she stand helpless by 
With tight-clasped hands and aching heart 
While her offspring bleed and die ?
Shall she waste time in tears and sighs 
For the "golden age" of man, 
And not so much as lift her hand 
To consummate the plan. 
Which God decreed in His high heaven, 
And prophets long foretold; 
Should crown the earth in latter days 
And all mankind enfold?

O, what cannot a woman do, 
When once she knows the right!
With heart and hand and lifted voice, 
She'll demonstrate her might 
In love and courage, wisdom, too. 
As time her powers increase, 
For this is truly woman's age 
And woman's age brings peace. 
What can a woman do, you ask,
With a baby at her knee? 
O, blessed boon, for therein lies 
Thine opportunity; 
Seize it, and teach thy children all 
To live the Golden Rule, 
That Jesus lives, the Prince of Peace. 
That earth is His footstool, 
Whereon He will not rest His feet, 
While marred with strife and blood; 
That all must work, both great and small 
For universal good. 
Then He will come, O glor'ous day, 
And war will be no more; 
But peace and love and brotherhood 
Abound from shore to shore. 
Fling out your banners to the breeze, 
Yellow, purple and white;
Let all mankind take up the theme, 
God said, "Let there be light," 
And so say we. Let there be peace. 
For light and peace are one; 
Then earth will be a paradise, 
Her glory like the sun. 
RUTH M. FOX. 
May, 1902.


Mrs. Amelia F. Young returned recently 
from the East where she has been visiting
relatives and friends in Washington, Balti-
more, Chicago, Minneapolis and Decorah. 
We will publish some account of her visit in 
our August number.


MAKE MY HEART BRAVE !

	Make my heart brave, O Lord !
My arm is weak, but strong enough withal 
To do my duty whatsoe'er thy call; 
But, oh, my arm doth hesitate and fall, 
Knowing the the weakness of my fainting heart. 
	Make my heart brave, O Lord !
I had so dreamed of doing nobler deeds; 
But I must minister to lesser needs; 
Only Thou knowest how ambition pleads! 
Make my heart brave to do the little things.

	Make my heart brave, O Lord !
Is this the path that I have chosen long ?
How fair that other road! The thought breeds
	wrong,
Help me to lift my burden with a song; 
Make my heart brave to walk the unchosen
		ways.

Make my heart brave, O Lord !
Brave for the loss of faces dearer grown; 
Brave for the battle that is mine alone; 
The glory unachieved I thought mine own, 
Make not my burden less; make my heart
		brave!
ANNIE PIKE.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
	Mrs. Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward is 
credited with the authorship of "The Con-
fessions of a Wife," the anonymous story 
now appearing in the Century Magazine. 
	Mrs. William Tod Helmuth, president 
of the National Council of Women, has 
gone abroad for the summer and possibly 
part of the winter. She expects to be 
present at the meeting of the International 
Council at Copenhagen. 
	Lady Henry Somerset expects to sail for 
New York on September 26. Unable to 
remain long in this country she has 
pledged herself to few engagements be-
yond the National Convention of the 
Woman's Christian Temperance Union at 
Portland, Me. She will visit Montreal, 
Washington and Boston, in each of which 
cities she will deliver an address. She 
will be accompanied by Miss Cameron,


Anna Grant  Rhoda Miller  Annie Hansen  Sybella Clayton  Ellen Peterson  Helen Whitney

	The students in this picture are representative, in a certain sense, of the girls in 
other Church schools throughout the several Stakes of Zion, and are devoted to the
highest educational work, that will fit and prepare them to take the places and positions 
in public life as educators, etc., or in private life as mothers, teachers of the young, 
housewives, and in fact fill all the requirements of full and complete womanhood. Much 
more is expected of the daughters of Zion than of the women outside in the world; and 
consequently the teachers as well as the parents have greater responsibility resting upon 
them. This matter is taken into consideration when selecting the teachers in these edu-
cational institutions. The young girls in these Church schools, colleges and universities, 
are, generally speaking, of that highly moral and religious type that is only found in com-
munities where righteousness prevails and the best principles are carefully taught and mu-
tual helpfulness maintained, and where the saying of our Savior is most carefully observed, 
viz., "To do unto others as we would have them do unto us."


[Column 1]
MRS. HORNE HOME. 
HAS RETURNED FROM CHICAGO AFTER A 
MONTH'S ABSENCE. 
Hon. Alice Merrill Horne has just re-
turned from Chicago where she has been 
staying for a month past, the guest of Miss 
Josephine C. Locke, former supervisor of 
drawing in the Chicago public schools.
Mrs. Horne visited the public schools there 
and brought home a variety of drawing for 
comparison with our local school work. 
She met a number of the leading teach-

[Column 2]
ers, educators and artists of that city and 
attended noted lectures at the University of
Chicago, and the Chicago institute of Art. 
Instructions were sent by the present 
officers of the Relief Society to Mrs. Horne 
to meet with the Relief Society members of 
the Chicago branch. President Asahel 
Woodruff accordingly called a meeting 
which convened on July 9, at the L. D. S. 
house of worship on Oakley Avenue. 
There was a good attendance. The fol-
lowing officers were set apart by President 
Woodruff: Caroline Dennison, president; 
Signature


Sarah Cress, Charlotte Estherbloom, coun-
selors; Josephine Turner, secretary; Mary
Post, treasurer. It was decided to hold a
meeting once a month on the regular fast
day, when a proper subject will be studied.
Then one meeting a week for sewing and
planning relief work is to be held at the
homes of the workers of the branch. Next
Wednesday the sisters will meet at the
home of the president.
	Mrs. Horne addressed the sisters on the
subject of the duties of the Relief Society
members and gave a short sketch of the
life and work of President Bathsheba W.
Smith, as it is and has been connected with
Relief Society work; also a sketch of Mrs.
E. B. Wells, who has been General
Secretary for so many years. Mrs. Horne
told of the work being done by Mrs. Hyde,
Dusenberry and Williams, with the idea
of bringing the Relief members of the
Chicago branch more closely in touch with
the General officers here. The sisters of
the branch expressed themselves as being
interested in the relief work and are de-
sirous of knowing something of the plans
and assist in erecting the proposed woman's
building.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies' Semi Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, Saturday,
March 15, 1902, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Opened by singing "Let us
pray, gladly pray." Prayer by Sister
Mary P. Silver. Singing, "glorious things
are sung of Zion." Minutes of last meet-
ing read and accepted.
	President M. I. Horne was happy to be
at the meeting. Wished the sisters to
occupy the time in bearing testimony,
urged them to cultivate the Spirit of the
Lord and spoke of the law of tithing,
thought we should teach our children to
pay tithing
	Sister L. D. Alder said she had passed
through a great mental strain recently on
account of sickness in the family but the
Lord heard her prayers. Urged the sisters
to serve the Lord, that they might call on
Him and He would hear them.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon was thank-
ful to be home again. She with the sisters
had visited many meetings and met many
ladies of the world, but was glad to be
with her sisters again. She had enjoyed
her visit to Washington very much.
	Sister Amelia Wardrop, Sister Peterson
and other sisters in the congregation bore
faithful testimonies.
	Sister Margaret Hull sang "There is
Sunshine in my Soul Today."
	Sister Hilman rejoiced to hear Sister
Hull sing, thought it was a great gift and
a blessing to her.
	Sister Mary Irvine loved to hear Sister
Hull sing, felt to praise her that she was
always willing to sing whenever she was
asked, also bore her testimony.
	Sister Margaret Hull was thankful the
sisters enjoyed her singing. President
Joseph F. Smith in speaking of her sing-
ing said that she had done much good with
her voice, she could even "melt hearts of
stone." Said the Lord was her instructor.
Sister Hull wished to live to do good with
her voice, or in any way the Lord desired.
	Sister Martha Morris sang "O, stop and
tell me, red man."
	Sister Berry and Sister Taylor bore faith-
ful testimonies to the Gospel,

[Column 2]
	Sister Stevenson urged the sisters to
bear testimony and said we should teach
our children the principles of the Gospel,
spoke of the principle of tithing. What a
blessing to be able to give a portion to the
Lord.
	President M. I. Horne hoped the sisters
would all have a good time on the 17th of
March. Spoke of the blessings received
through the Relief Society. She enjoyed
Sister Hull's singing, felt she was inspired
of the Lord to sing for us.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing, "The time is far spent."

	The Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting,
April 12, 1902, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Singing, "Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah." Prayer by Sister Steven-
son. Singing, "Oh ye mountains high."
Minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne was pleased with the
good conference and the good instruction
concerning the young people. There is
too much excitement and amusement
among the young people. She approved
of the young people having a good time
but it was often carried too far. Urged
the sisters to be careful of their children,
the children would be thankful when they
grew older. We should ask wisdom of the
Lord.
	Sisters Siebeck, Barton, Margaret
Brown and Johanna Peterson all bore
testimony.
	The congregation sang "Earth with her
ten thousand flowers."
	President Horne then spoke concerning
Sister Steele’s death. Said she was a good
woman and we should miss her. Urged
all to live as she had lived, a faithful Saint.
	Sisters Elizabeth Buzzo, Jones, Jensen,
Maxwell and Latham bore testimony to the
Gospel and obedience to its principles.
	Sister Margaret Hull then sang a solo.
	Sister Harrison said she took pleasure in
reading the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
made other excellent remarks.
	Sister Squires spoke of the faithfulness
and sudden death of Sister Steele, how
anxious she always was to come to meet-
ing, she felt lonesome without her.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon urged the
sisters to think of one another and feel to
help one another, Urged all to do the
best they knew how and we would be on
the road to perfection.
	Sister Dora Nelson testified to the good-
ness of the Lord in healing her in sickness
through the administration of the Elders.
	Sister Wright bore her tastimony and
said she had been writing a sketch of the
working of the Relief Society since the
first organization sixty years ago. She
felt the Lord had blessed her in doing so.
	Sister Evans, of Malad, bore her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
	Sister Stevenson made excellent closing
remarks and meeting was adjourned for
four weeks. Singing, Doxology. Bene-
diction by Sister Amelia Wardrop.

	The Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting of
May 10, 1902, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion." Prayer by Sister E. Webb. Sing-
ing, "Welcome best of all good meetings."
Minute of last meetings read and accepted.
	President Horne spoke of the destruction
going on abroad in the land as well as at
home, thought we all had cause to be on
our guard that we might not be overtaken

[Column 3]
by wrong. Urged the mothers to keep
watch over their children and teach them
to read good books.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon addressed
the sisters on the subject of the peace
meetings, urged all to do their part that it
might be a success. Urged the sisters to
patronize the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, said
it was a good paper and should be taken in
every Relief Society and by all the sisters
who could, President Bathsheba Smith was
very anxious that the sisters should be
interested in it.
	Sister L. D. Alder then gave a very
interesting address concerning the peace
meeting, said we should all work for peace.
Spoke of the suffering caused by war, re-
ferred to the prophecy by the Prophet
Joseph Smith concerning the war that
would come, and that did come. Urged all
to do what they could on the subject, the
Lord will guide us.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore her
testimony and thought it was a great bless-
ing to meet with the sisters. She thought
that the dividing of the wards would be a
blessing to the young sisters. Felt to do
her part in bringing peace to all.
	Sister Read spoke upon the subject of
smoking among the young men and the
wrong arising from it.
	Sister Smith said that the Lord had al-
ways opened up the way for her. Through
prayer she had been blessed, she had done
work in the Temple, she desired to spend
her time in the Temple. She had had
many manifestations concerning the work
for the dead and was very much interested
in that work. She desired to do right at
all times.
	Sister Hanford and other sisters in the
congregation bore faithful testimonies to
the Gospel.
	Sister Stevenson then spoke about the
EXPONENT, the good it would do for the sis-
ters if they would take it. Said we should
all work for peace and have peace in our
homes. Urged the young sisters to help
in the interest of peace meetings.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Julia Druce.
AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


BOTH PARENTS NEEDED.
	“If woman fails in the moral education
of children, it is not too much to say it is
because man has not been her helper.”
	So says Rev. David Beaton, of the Lin-
coln Park Congregational Church, Chica-
go. He adds:
	“Look at the statistics of our church
membership. Look at the same sources of
information concerning crime! Do you
go into our churches to day to find the
men? No, you go to the baseball park,
the golf links or the jails. Think of the
dead lift that women have against bad
manly examples which stultify their les-
sons and demoralize the children’s ideas of
personal honor and civic duty.
	“It is a work that will never be done
rightly until man and woman both engage
in it, the model fatherhood as well as the
model motherhood of the State working for
its betterment. The man must not force
upon the woman a low ideal by his bad
example, nor poison the maturing minds
of the children emerging into maidenhood
and youth, by stultifying every lesson of
purity and honor which they learned at
their mother’s knee.—Ex


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
COMMISSIONED.

“Do their errands; enter into the sacrafice
	with them; be a link yourself in the divine 
chain, and feel the joy and life of it.,’

What can I do for thee, beloved,
	Whose feet so little while ago
	Trod the same wayside dust with mine,
And now up paths I do not know
	Speed without sound or sign?

What can I do? The perfect life
	All fresh and fair and beautiful
	Has opened its wide arms to thee;
Thy cup is over-brimmed and full;
	Nothing remains for me.

I used to do so many little things;
	Love thee and chide thee and caress;
	Brush little straws from off thy way,
Tempering with my poor tenderness
	The heat of thy short day.

[Column 2]
Not much, but very sweet to give;
	And it is grief of griefs to bear
	That all these ministries are o’er
And thou, so happy, love, elsewhere,
	Dost need me nevermore.

And I can do for thee but this:
	Working on blindly, knowing not
	(If I may give thee pleasure so;)
Out of my own dull shadowed lot
	I can arise, and go

To sadder lives and darker homes,
	A messenger, dear heart, from thee
	Who wast on earth a comforter;
And say to those who welcome me,
	I am sent forth by her.

Feeling the while how good it is
	To do thy errands thus, and think
	It may be, in the blue, far space,
Thou watchest from the heaven’s brink,
	A smile upon thy face.

[Column 3]
And when the days work ends with day,
	And star-eyed evening, stealing in,
	Waves her cool hand to flying noon, 
And restless, surging thoughts begin,
	Like sad bells out of tune,

I’ll pray, “Dear Lord, to whose great love
	Nor bound nor limit-line is set,
	Give to my darling, I implore,
Some new, sweet joy, not tasted yet,
	For I can give no more.” 

And, with the words, my thoughts shall climb
 With following feet the heavenly stair
	Up which thy steps so lately speed,
And seeing thee so happy there.
	Come back half comforted.
				SUSAN COOLIDGE.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw will take a prom-
inent part in the State Suffrage rally to 
be held at Ocean Grove, N. J.


May Morrison  Eloise Burton  Sylvia Compton  Ethel Davis  Leone Asper  Ida Standing  Charlotte Wetzel  Cora Reiser  Mamie Lambert
Zina McRae		Hazel Eardley		Margaret Cowley		Dessie Grant		May Taylor		Mary Powell		Helen Kimball

	We are sure our readers will feel glad to see the faces of these young girl students beaming upon them when they open the paper.
These young ladies show in the expression of their countenances the faith and hope that will help them forward to success if they
continue in the course marked out for their progress by their parents and teachers. What promise the Latter-day Saints have of the
future of Zion in the growth of wisdom and intelligence, perceptible in the Universities and schools established by the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. The underlying principles of life and salvation that the world at large is reaching out after, lies in the
seeds of truth taught in these very schools. What grand opportunities are afforded our children, and how little they realize the
splendid attainments they might reach, if they would but take advantage of the glorious privileges thus accorded. Let us hope and
believe that the saying of the Psalmist may be fulfilled in the children of the present day, that “our sons may be as plants grown up in
their youth; that our daughters may be as corner-stones, polished after the similitude of a palace.”


[Column 1]
L. D. S LADIES DEPARTMENT.
	We publish in this issue two more pic-
tures of representative groups of lady
students of the Latter-day Saints’ Univer-
sity, of this city. Work for girls has a
prominent place in the curriculum of this
institution, and it cannot be said that
in any respect the provision made for dis-
tinctively ladies’ work is excelled by that
for men. The L. D. S. University now
provides a complete normal Kindergarten
for the training of Primary and Kindergar-
ten teachers. This course extends through
four years and is intended solely for lady
students. Another distinctive girls’ course
is that of domestic science, in which the
economics of the home and the theory and

[Column 2]
practice of good housekeeping occupy a
prominent place in the training given. The
nature and extent of this work may be
seen by the list of subjects that comprise
its special training, as follows: household
economics, drawing and designing, hy-
giene for women, home sanitation, house-
hold management, aesthetics, handstitch-
ing, dressmaking, lectures on cooking,
practice in cooking and science of nutrition.
Each of these is a separate subject, for
which separate teachers, rooms and appar-
atus are provided, and actual work given
according to the most approved meth-
ods.
	Culture is not excluded by the purely
practical, however, and the course includes
literature, science, art and one foreign

[Column 3]
language, French. It is a practical course
which has been laid out with great care, to
train the mind and the hand at the same
time, and we congratulate our girls upon hav-
ing such opportunities as are now being put
before them. There were about 500 girls
at this institution last year and the coming
season will no doubt show a still larger
attendance. Many of the girls that took
the courses in book-keeping and stenogra-
phy last year are now filling responsible
and lucrative positions in this city. But
the new courses above mentioned, which
are now offered for the first time, are of
such merit that we feel justified in calling
the attention of our young ladies to some
of the opportunities thus presented to
them.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1 & 15, 1902.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL WORK.
	A quarter of a century has now elapsed
since the present editor assumed entire con-
trol of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT. The
varied experience gained during that time
cannot be told, but altogether it has been a
labor of love, no matter how arduous the
work or how numerous the fault finders,
never once has the writer been tempted to
withdraw. There has always been a de-
lightful side to the occupation, however diffi-
cult the outlook. The work has been a
solace in times of trouble and sorrow, some-
thing to turn to for relief, and, in a way,
a pastime. Looking back over the twenty-
seven years and more since we first entered
upon the work associated at that time with
the first editor in chief, Mrs. L. L. Greene
Richards, we recall with tenderness the
blessed privilege of this rare opportunity of
participating in the editorial department of
the paper. It has indeed been a happy ser-
vice and one recalls in looking backward
many seasons of rejoicing with devoted
workers for the cause of woman’s uplifting.
	Of those dear sisters and friends who have
been occasional contributors to the EX-
PONENT some still lend a helping hand and
some who took great delight in the work
have passed behind the vail. Eliza R. Snow,
Hannah T. King, Sarah M. Kimball, Louie
Wells and Julia McDonald, have laid aside
the pen, but are not forgotten. We still
have Augusta Joyce Crocheron, Ellis R.
Shipp, Lydia D. Alder, Emily H. Wood-
mansee, Mary A. Freeze, Ruth M. Fox,
Annie Wells Cannon, Romania B. Pratt and
a score of others, only most of them are too
busy doing other things to give us even
occasional glimpses of what they think and
feel, or even comment upon the days in
which we live; and it is long since we have
heard from “Alofa,” “Hyacinth,” “Hope”
or dear little “Gladys” or “Homespun.”
	The Young Woman’s Journal and the
Children’s Friend employ the talent of some
of the younger writers who have sprung into
notice since thirty years ago when the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT was founded. The
Contributor, a monthly periodical, was
started since, and Zion’s Home Monthly,
too. Although these were not woman’s
papers in any sense of the word, yet women
wrote some of their stories and poems and
occasionally essays. Now in place of them
we have the Improvement Era, but only now
and then a woman’s name appears among
the contributors.
	Society columns in the daily papers give
some young women a chance to earn money

[Column 2]
and get another sort of newspaper exper-
ence.
	My dear readers we will not tire your
patience further, but we think our patrons
would like occasionally to hear from some
of our former contributors. The EXPONENT
reaches women in many countries—Holland,
Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, New Zea-
land, Australia, Tasmania, Sandwich and
Society Islands, as well as all the English
speaking nations. Complete volumes of the
entire edition, handsomely bound, were on
exhibition at the Paris Exposition, and a
number of volumes at “The Hague.”
	Our sisters do not realize what progress
the EXPONENT has made in reaching out to
the people and lands far away, or they
would do more to promote its interests and
to make it what it really should be as the
oldest as well as the most representative
Mormon woman’s paper.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	The birthday of two veteran women of
the Church occurred on June 17, ult., and
was appropriately celebrated. Although
the party was given by Brother Amos P.
Howe at the family residence in this city,
and was in honor of his wife, Julia Cruse
Howe, on her 79th birthday, it had been
arranged entirely without her knowledge.
Brother Howe had given Sister Walden,
who had been staying with Sister Howe
for some months, carte blanche, and she
had attended to all the details; Sister
Howe herself was not aware that anything
unusual was being done. About noon
Sister Howe went out for a drive, and
during her absence the guests arrived, and
on her return she found her parlor filled
with dear friends. Among the number
was Sister Maria W. Wilcox, whose birth-
day comes on the same day, although her’s
was the 75th anniversary, three quarters of
a century.
	The rooms were filled with roses in
every available nook and corner and all the
air was redolent of their sweetness. Social
converse occupied the first few hours, with
congratulations and expressions of love
and esteem and the presentation of gifts as
remembrances, etc., then the dining room
was opened and a delicious repast served,
ncluding the best fruits of the season and
all enjoyed the delightful table-talk and
hearty welcome of the hostess.
	Afterwards the sisters engaged in a
spiritual feast, Sister M. Isabella Horne
presiding. Meeting opened with singing,
prayer was offered by President B. W.
Smith. The time was spent in bearing
testimony and in saying good things of the
two sisters whose anniversaries occurred
on that particular day.
	Those present were Sisters Mary Ellen
Kimball, (the oldest lady there) M. Isa-
bella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, Persis
Farr, Julia C. Howe, Maria W. Wilcox,
Margaret P. Young, Lucy B. Young,
Emmeline B. Wells, Sarah J. Cannon,
Maria Y. Dougall, Margaret Y. Taylor,
Annie T. Hyde, Clara C. Cannon, Clarissa
S. Williams, Sarah A. Reese, Lydia D.
Alder, Phebe Y. Beatie, Harriet A. Bad-
ger, Mary E. Carter, Elizabeth J. Steven-
son, Elizabeth Webb, Martha Morris,
Elizabeth T. Wilcox, Zina Y. Bull, Sister
Waldon.
	There were many incidents related of
the early days in the valley and of dear
sisters passed to the beyond, who had been


associated in our labors and festivities in
days past.
	After the sisters had spoken all around
Sister Howe expressed her appreciation of
the congratulatory remarks of the sisters
addressed to herself, and hoped she might 
always have their love and society here
and hereafter. Sister Wilcox also ex-
pressed similar feelings.
	The day was beautiful and the enter-
tainment in every way successful. The
EXPONENT offers fervent congratulations
to both Sister Howe and Sister Wilcox on
reaching such an advanced age and retain-
ing much of the buoyancy of youth, with
their faculties unimpaired and still able to
continue their labors of love and of useful-
ness in the home circle and in the Church.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Since publishing visits to conferences in
June, visits have been made to Alpine, Utah,
Sevier, Wayne, Kanab, Panguitch, Hyrum,
Cache and Benson; also the society in Chica-
go. President B. W. Smith, Counselors Annie
T. Hyde and Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Julia P.
M. Farnsworth, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, of
the General Board, and Emilia D. Madsen,
Emma S. Woodruff, (names omitted
from the last notice) and besides these,
Margaret A. Caine, L. L. Greene Richards,
Alice Merrill Horne and Mary A. Freeze,
have gone as missionaries with the sisters
named. In all, so far twenty-nine Stakes
have been visited since the April conference.
	Mrs. Rulon S. Wells gave a dinner party
on Wednesday, July 9, in recognition of the
birthday anniversary of her husband, Elder
Rulon S. Wells, although Monday the 7th
was the date, but on account of the circum-
stance of his being out of town it was post-
poned to the day mentioned. The house
was beautifully decorated with roses and
carnations and a sumptuous dinner prepared
to which all the assembled guests did ample
justice. Rulon is a prime favorite with all
his father’s family and in many respects he
is like his venerable father, President D. H.
Wells. Many and sincere were the con-
gratulations showered upon Rulon by his
friends and admirers, and ardent wishes for
his future happiness and prosperity. The
party was very enjoyable and in addition to
members of the Wells family, aunties, sisters,
etc., there were present Mrs. Wells’ mother,
Mrs. Marian Beatie, who has only recently
returned from a prolonged visit to Southern
California; Mrs. Alma L. Smith, aunt of R.
S. Wells; and also Mrs. Kinney, wife of
Judge Kinney, who with her husband has
been away in Southern California for the
last two years. Such reunions are helpful in
keeping families in touch with each other and
reminding children of relationships and ties
of affection and interest. Mrs. Wells is to
be congratulated on the success of the party,
and the pleasure given in bringing together
old time friends, and helping to renew
former associations.
	The Society of the Daughters of the
Pioneers met on Tuesday, June 24, at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. Septimus W.
Sears, in East Waterloo. The rooms were
handsomely decorated with roses and other
beautiful flowers. About thirty-nine mem-
bers were present besides honorary mem-
bers, Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde presiding.
Prayer was offered by President B. W.
Smith and Miss Ruth Wilson, recently re-
turned from New York, sang a solo. Presi-


dent Hyde read an exceedingly interesting
sketch of the life of her father, President
John Taylor, which was followed with an
address by M. Isabella Horne, a real pioneer,
who came to the valley in 1847. She told of
many of the early hardships, and described
in detail some of the pleasant associations
and experiences of the journey and first
years in the valley. Remarks were also
made by Sisters E. B. Wells, M. P. Young
and L. W. Kimball. Sister Sarah Jenne Can-
non pronounced the benediction. De-
licious ices and cake were served and a
social hour was passed in talking over old
times. Besides the pioneer women men-
tioned, there were present Sister Relief C.
Atwood and Sisters Lydia Ann and Susan
H. Wells, pioneers of 1848.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.
Dedication of Relief Society Stake House.
WEBER STAKE OF ZION.
JULY 19, 1902.
	Saturday, July 19, 1902, was an event-
ful day to the Relief Society of Weber
Stake, and in fact to the sisters of the
organization everywhere, as well as all the
people interested in the Church of
Latter day Saints.
	One cannot help feeling that the presi-
dent, Sister Jane S. Richards, now in her
80th year, has displayed unusual tact and
executive ability in originating, planning
and carrying to a successful issue a Relief
Society hall for the sisters in Ogden City
and the Weber Stake of Zion. Her coun-
selors, Sisters Hattie C. Brown and Emily
L Shurtliff, and other sisters, co workers
with her in this successful enterprise, have
accomplished a most creditable work in a
very short time and have proven their faith
by their works, and set an example of
perseverance and of indomitable energy
worthy of imitation by others engaged in
similar labors throughout Zion.
	The Dedication took place in the new
hall on Saturday, July 19, 1902, meeting
at 11 a. m., twenty-five years from the time
President Jane S. Richards was appointed to
preside over the sisters in that Stake of Zion,
July 19, 1877. That was an event of
great significance to the sisters pres-
ent upon that memorable occasion, and
time has proven it so to all interested in
Zion’s welfare.
	It may be well in this connection to
state who were on the stand, of the Apos-
tles and sisters: Presidents Brigham
Young and Daniel H. Wells, of the First
Presidency; Apostles John Taylor, Frank-
lin D. Richards and Albert Carrington;
and President D. H Perry and counselors:
Sisters Jane S. Richards, (presiding) Eliza
R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Emmeline B.
Wells, Emily S. Richards, Sarah J. Herrick,
and others, too many to mention here, be-
sides an overflowing congregation, mostly
women, nearly all officers and members of the
Relief Society and Young Ladies’ Associa-
tion, in the Ogden Tabernacle.
	After the usual exercises President
Young stated that he had expected to hear
repprts from the different societies, but
since his arrival he had been informed that
the meeting had been called expressly to
receive instructions from himself and the
brethren. He spoke upon health, how to
avoid sickness, how mothers should train
their children. He counseled mothers to

[Column 2]
give them early lessons in faith and princi-
ple, teach them to believe implicitly in
God, inculcate a love of virtue, honesty
and truthfulness, and the force of this edu-
cation would have a bearing upon their
whole lives. He designated mothers as
the leading instrument in the hands of
Providence to guide the destinies of nations,
and exhorted mothers to teach their chil-
dren not to make war, but to teach them
peace. He asked the question, “Who
gives the key to the nations of the earth?
It is the mothers, not the fathers!” He
alluded to trifles and small things making
up all great matters, and that our lives
were full of little incidents that make one
great whole, one vast experience; said that
the earth itself was composed of little
grains of sand. President Young’s re-
marks were largely upon the storing of
wheat, home industries and manufactures,
planting mulberry trees, raising silk etc.,
and said, “If what I have told you is car-
ried out in the lives of the Saints it will
make them healthful and wealthy,” and
closed by saying, “And let us go to and
establish the Zion of God upon the earth,
that we may be prepared to enjoy it, which
I most earnestly pray for every day, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Elder Carrington spoke mostly upon the
fashions of Babylon, etc.
	President Wells said he had long con-
cluded that woman was a power in the
earth, and he hailed these organizations of
the sisters as a harbinger of good results,
carrying with it as it did an influence more
manifest than in times past. That woman
was an indispensable helpmeet to man and
should occupy that position in all practical
work in building up the kingdom of God,
as well as in spiritual work and exaltation.
Said that the Saints of God should learn to
govern and control themselves according
to the laws that govern our being, and the
principles of life and salvation.
	Elder John Taylor said there were more
women present than was usual to meet. He
alluded to woman’s faith, referred to the
counsel which a woman gave to the rich
man whom the Savior told to go and dip
seven times in Jordan; he felt it was too
little a thing but the woman had faith and
intuition, and by listening to her he was
healed through obedience. Spoke of
obeying the laws of life and health, to pre-
serve our lives to the age of a tree. Al-
luded to the manner in which children
were brought up in aristocratic families in
Europe, and said as Saints we ought to be
more particular in the training of our chil-
dren than the people of the world are, and
pray God ever to help us.
	President Young added further remarks
on sericulture, told the sisters it was a way
in which they could make money for their
own use and spoke of the use of our time,
etc., and appointed Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards to preside over all the Relief Society
and Young Ladies’ Associations in Weber
County.
	Elder Franklin D. Richards made some
excellent closing remarks and requested in
behalf of Sister Richards, president of
Weber County, that all these societies
should prepare a quarterly report of the
condition of each society and its financial
condition, to be read there three months
from that time, to which time that meet-
ing was adjourned, and said to all the sis-
ters <w>ho felt like entering more fully and
earn<est>ly into the work of home industries

[Column 3]
and helping to become self-sustaining, a
request was made, by President Young for
them to rise to their feet, to which every one
in the room responded gladly.
	This seems very little to say of so im-
portant a gathering, but there is not space
to give all one would wish even of the
gathering that has just taken place when a
quarter of a century has elapsed, and so
much has been done that the half or even
the tenth can never be told. The hall its-
self is a beautiful brick building situatsd
on Grant Avenue, between 21st and 22nd
Streets in Ogden City. The building site
was given by Bishop Bernard White. It
was only commenced a few months ago. It
is forty-five feet wide and seventy-eight
feet long with a basement dining room
18x35 feet, cloak rooms, entrance, stage,
etc. It is finished inside in white with
light green trimmings. The cost is about
$5.000.
	The stage and hall in which the Dedica-
tion took place was hung with pictures of
the leaders of the Church, past and present,
and at the farther end Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Jane S. Richards. The house
was filled to overflowing. On the plat-
form were President John R. Winder, of
the First Presidency, Patriarch John
Smith, Apostle George Teasdale, President
Seymour B. Young, of the Seven Presi-
dents of Seventy, Bishop Orson F. Whit-
ney and Elder Charles W. Penrose; also
Presidents L. W. Shurtliff and C. F. Mid-
dleton, Bishop Bernard White, of Ogden,
Bishop McKay, of Huntsville, Patriarch
Greene Taylor and others. Of the sisters,
President Jane S Richards, (presiding)
General President Bathsheba W. Smith
and her first counselor, Annie T. Hyde,
General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells,
President M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society, and her first
counselor, Sarah J. Cannon, and Phebe
Young Beatie, member of the General
Board, Sister Maria W. Wilcox, Cor. Sec.
of the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
and president of the 14th ward Relief
Society, Salt Lake City; also Sisters Eliza
T. Cannon, Maria B. Winder, treasurer
of the Relief Society of Granite Stake,
May Wells Whitney and Margaret A.
Caine. These from Salt Lake City and
vicinity.
	Associated with Sister Richards was her
first counselor, Hattie C. Brown, who has
been with Sister Richards from the begin-
ning almost, and is an energetic and faith-
ful laborer in every sense of the word; also
Sister Martha A. Cannon, who is a mem-
ber of the General Board and until very
recently Stake Secretary in the Weber
Relief Society, but resigned on account of
being, necessarily, much away from home.
	It would be impossible to mention all
the good sisters present on the platform,
but we must mention Sister Josephine R.
West, one of the General Presidents of the
Primary Association, and Sister Mary E.
Lightner, an aged veteran now in her 85th
year, who was baptized in October, 1830,
and who lived in Kirtland, Ohio, and was
one of the singers in that wonderful
Temple in that early day, and has known
all the Apostles and Prophets from that
day to the present time.
	The meeting opened by singing,
“Redeemer of Israel,” the congregation
joining. Prayer by Counselor C. F.
Middleton. Continued by singing “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” The


[Column 1]
singing was led by Elder Joseph Ballan-
tyne.
	Brief opening remarks appropriate to the 
day were made by President L W. Shurt-
liff, followed by President Bathsheba W.
Smith, who congratulated Sister Richards
on having such a nice hall to meet in, and 
on her labors among the sisters for so 
many years. Sister Smith mentioned the 
first meeting of the sisters in Nauvoo when
the Prophet Joseph organized the Society, 
and said seeing Sister Belnap there had 
brought vivid recollections to her mind of 
that first meeting when she went with
Sister Belnap's mother, Sister Martha
Knight, and she herself was now the only 
person living present on that occasion.
She spoke of her association with the 
Society all these years, of mingling with
the brethren and sisters many of whom
had passed away. Sister Smith closed by
praying for peace and blessing upon the 
Society there, and upon Sister Richards 
and all assembled.
	President Jane S. Richards made an ad-
dress of welcome to those present. Spoke 
of the good work of the brethren and sisters 
in the Stake in helping to build the house, 
and of her desire to have it dedicated on that 
particular day, twenty-five years from the 
time President Young had organized the 
sisters of Weber Stake, felt it would be ap-
propriate and had hurried the matter of 
preparations for the dedication on that occa-
sion. It was Thursday, July 19, 1877, that 
Brother Young came to visit them. A few
weeks previous, in May, she had invited 
President Young and a number of the breth-
ren and some of the sisters up to dedicate a
hall or milliner's store for home manufac-
ture of straw hats, bonnets, etc., that she 
had charge of in Ogden City, and Brother 
Young had promised then to come again and 
talk to the sisters. She spoke modestly of 
her efforts to try and build up the Society
and help take care of the sick and unfortu-
nate. Referred to the plainness of the 
furnishings and to the pictures that were 
hung up, she had been disappointed in some 
of them. Alluded to the help received from 
the Presidency of the Stake, the Bishops and 
brethren and sisters in carrying on the work
of the organization and also the building.
	President C. W. Penrose, of the Salt Lake
Stake, and editor of the Deseret News, 
spoke next. He referred to Ogden's enter-
prise and the public spirit of the people gen-
erally and his knowledge of Sister Richards'
benevolent work among the people, com-
mended her labors in the highest terms of 
praise in visiting the people who needed 
assistance in their homes and ministering to 
their wants both spiritually and temporally.
He also spoke specially of Apostle F. D. 
Richards and the efficient aid he had rend-
ered Sister Richards in all her labors in the 
Relief Society, and he believed those in the 
spirit world were cognizant of the efforts we 
were making here. Said he understood this
was the first Stake house built by the Relief 
Society, how pleasant it would be to report 
this to the brethren who had gone before. 
Referred to the activity of Sister Richards 
and Brother Winder at such an advanced 
age and made other excellent remarks con-
cerning the Gospel dispensation in these last 
days, added his blessing upon all connected
with spreading the work.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney commenced by 
saying he was not a veteran in the work as 
many present were, but a boy twenty-two
years old at the time of the inception of the 
project alluded to, and was out in the world

[Column 2]
and received his first positive testimony of 
the truth of the Latter-day work. He felt 
in connection with the spirit of charity and 
benevolence he could not do betfer than to 
point to Ogden and Weber Stake for an ex-
ample. This institution has come down to 
us through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Made 
reference to the creation of the world and 
peopling it, etc., in a delightfully poetical 
manner; said if we should ask who are doing 
the will of God today many would be over-
looked. We may now see through a glass 
darkly, ask the people today who was the 
greatest man the world has ever known,
many of them would say the Roman 
Emperor Augustus Caesar, yet the babe of 
Bethlehem was not thought of then, the 
resurrection and the life of the proud and 
the lowly who keep the laws of God. Spoke
of His appearing to His disciples, and said, 
"Where now is Augustus Caesar? Yet the 
Savior was not approved of man, but known
of God." Bishop Whitney then spoke of 
the butterflies of fashion, how like bubbles
upon the ocean wave, and said, "I turn from 
that spectacle to this, and it is as if I drink 
deep of living waters."
	A solo by Miss Ferrin, "O Lord, abide
with me," was very beautifully rendered and 
President Seymour B. Young congratulated 
the sisters of the Relief Society of Weber 
Stake and Sister Jane S. Richards, their 
president, in a very eloquent manner. Re-
called the first organization by the Prophet 
Joseph Smith and that the spirit 
of the work had since spread abroad 
in the earth, mentioned the noble 
woman, Florence Nightingale, who minis-
tered to the sufferers on the battlefield and in 
the hospitals in the Crimean war; later on 
the Red Cross work. Noted the depth of 
feeling among the sisters of the Relief 
Society, that they ministered to all in love and 
charity, The mothers in Israel were indeed
a Relief Corps of Zion, as your humble 
president said this morning. This house 
was started under the administration of the 
Priesthood, it is a good place to be in and 
a good work for our young people, it is a 
joyful thing to serve the Lord in ministering
among the lowly. The speaker closed by 
reading a poem entitled, "The Master's 
Coming Today."
	President John R. Winder, in a most im-
pressive manner, then offered the Dedicatory
Prayer. So solemn was the feeling, so 
sacred the influence it was as if a holy
hush fell upon the house. 
	Sister Ferrin then sang, as a fitting close
to the morning service, "There is Sunshine 
in my Soul," which found a response in 
every heart.
	The benediction was offered by Patriarch
John Smith.
	The brethren and sisters were then es-
corted to the dining room where tables
loaded with the bounties of life, and fragrant
with flowers, delighted the guests. Beauti-
ful young women and girls were in waiting 
to serve at the tables, and also the hundreds 
of people from all over the country who re-
mained seated in the hall and partook of the 
generous hospitality, of which an abundance 
had been provided. When all were seated 
Apostle Teasdale pronounced the blessing 
and the feast was thoroughly enjoyed.
	(Afternoon session to be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Mary E. Lothrop, of Denver, has
the distinction of being the first woman
lawyer to argue a case before the State
Supreme Court of Colorado.


RECEPTION AND BANQUET. 
TENDERED THE RETIRING OFFICERS OF
THE MONTPELIER RELIEF SOCIETY.
	A very enjoyable time was had at the
Montpelier meeting house, January 24, 
1902, the occasion being a surprise in
honor of the retiring officers of the Mont-
pelier Relief Society, namely: President
Petria Hogansen, Counselor Elizabeth
Bridges and Treasurer Ann Bunney.
	Shortly after 2 p. m. the people had
assembled and the program arranged for
the occasion was proceeded with. After
the opening exercises an address of wel-
come was given by Bishop W. W. Clark
and appropriate remarks were made by
Stake Counselor Mary Bagley. Mean-
while musical selections were rendered.
The most beautiful feature however was a
biographical sketch of the lives of our
honored guests, which had been prepared
and was also read by Brother Fayette Aus-
tin who had taken notes from the Patri-
archal blessings of each, arranging them in
a beautiful way, proving beyond a doubt
that our worthy sisters had ordered their
lives in a manner to merit the blessings
which were promised only through their,
faithful labors.
	Other exercises were rendered after
which the presents, consisting of three
handsome bureaus, were presented in a few
well chosen words by our worthy Bishop,
who in a jovial way said he was in
hopes our sisters would not get to feeling
vain while viewing themselves in the mir-
rors, and begin crimping their hair, etc.
	A kindly response was then given by
each of the honored guests who were much
affected by the demonstration in their
honor, and each expressed gratitude for the
kindly feeling manifest for them at this
time.
	After an appropriate selection by the 
choir a short recess was taken, then all
surrounded tables that were spread with
the rich bounties of the earth. It is esti-
mated that near two hundred people parti-
cipated in the enjoyment of a real feast.
The amusements of the evening were
varied and were greatly enjoyed by the
Saints who were mostly aged and middle-
aged people who seemed to appreciate the
company of each other, even more than
ever before. There was a general good
feeling throughout and at the close all
seemed perfectly satisfied with the day’s
enjoyment.
	This was an unusual occasion owing to
the fact that each of our honored sisters
was born in a foreign land, each crossed
the plains in a handcart company and each
was among the first to settle in this once
forbiding valley, Bear Lake, and for
many years each has been prominent in
the Relief Society here.
		BIOGRAPHICAL
	Sister Petria Hogansen, who is the
first subject in this sketch was born in
Asker, Norway, December 20, 1830. She
came to Salt Lake City in the fall of 1856
and to Bear Lake with the first pioneers in
1863. Was appointed president in the
Montpelier Relief Society April 30, 1879,
a position she honored up to the time of
her release, which occurred November 16,
1901.
	Frances Elizabeth Bridges, who is the
second subject of this sketch, was born in
England, September 5, 1837, and arrived


in Salt Lake City in the fall of 1856. She
came to Bear Lake in the year 1866. She
was chosen second counselor to President
Sarah Phelps when the Relief Society was
first organized here, August 1, 1869, was
again chosen first counselor to President
Hoganson, April 30, 1879, which position
she has filled with honor for a period of
thirty years.
	Sister Ann Bunney, the third subject
of this sketch, was born in Cornwall, Eng-
land, May 5, 1830, and arrived in Salt
Lake City September 20, 1856 She came
to Bear Lake in the fall of 1863 and in the
year 1869 she was called to labor as a
teacher in the Montpelier Relief Society, a
position she filled for five years. In the
year 1874 she was chosen treasurer of the
Relief Society here, a position she honored
for twenty-seven years. Perhaps it would
not be amiss to state that Sister Bunney
also filled the important office of president
of the Montpelier Primary Association for
twenty years.
	It would seem almost useless to state
that these important offices were magni-
fied and honored by our worthy sisters up
to the time of their release, which occurred
November 16, 1901. Such is the case,
however, and as daughters of Zion who
have associated with them for years and
have seen the true integrity of their hearts,
we are at a loss for words in which to ex-
press our heartfelt thanks for the blessings
we have received during their long and
faithful administration in the Relief Society.
				MARY A. PERKINS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	It is almost daily we are called upon to
say farewell to some dear friend or aged
veteran in the cause of truth, but the sub-
ject of this sketch, Sister Deborah Patten
Billings, stepped, as it were, from her
earthly duties, cares and sorrows, without
one uttered good bye or expressed wish
and joined the many anxious ones gone be-
fore.
	She was born in Fairplay, Green Co.,
Indiana, April 11, 1830. Through her
father, Dr. John Patten, she traces her
genealogy back to William the Conquerer.
They were residents of Lancastershire,
England, in the reign of Henry VIII, and
stood high in the service of the king. Near
the close of the seventeenth century three
brothers embarked for America One
died at sea, one settled in the north and
the third in the south Sister Billings
was a descendant of the northern family,
her father having served the government
in the war of 1812. Later on the family
settled in Green Co., Indiana, where the
Gospel found them and in 1830 her father
baptized his brother, David W Patten, who
subsequently became one of the quorum of
the first Twelve Apostles in this dispensa-
tion. He was martyred in the year 1838.
	Her mother, Hannah Ingersoll, was a
cousin of Col. Robert Ingersoll. She with
her children shared with the Saints all the
persecutions of early days, during their
mobbings and drivings of Clay, Davis and
Caldwell Counties. They finally settled at
Nauvoo, across the Mississippi on the
Iowa side of the river, at Montrose, Lee
Co., Iowa.
	In 1847 they moved to Winter Quarters,
now known as Florence, where they were
preparing to take up their march to Zion
the following spring but were detained by

[Column 2]
their father, who died the morning the first
company of Saints left. 
	Sister Billings, her mother, her sister
Edith and her two brothers, John and
Thomas Jefferson, after some time came to
Utah, arriving in Salt Lake September 22,
1850, finally settling in Manti, Sanpete Co.,
where her mother died in 1852. Here
Sister Deborah Patten was married to
Alfred S. Billings, who died at Provo,
March 15, 1882.
	She was the mother of ten children,
seven of whom survive her. She was a
woman of exceptionally strong mind and
body and great strength of character. She
has always been an untiring worker in the
Church from her youth, and at the time of
her death was counselor in the Utah Stake
Relief Society which position she held for
many years. Not an hour before her death
she received the following note:
				Provo, June 16, 1902.
Dear Sister Billings:
	Shall we go to the Fifth Ward tomorrow and fill our
appointment there, or what shall we do? We can go
to the Tabernacle at 10 o’clock, can have a visit with the
old folks till 2 o’clock, then go and attend the meeting, if
you think best. Send me word by the bearer, I will
abide your decision.
					MARILLA DANIELS.
	She answered the note verbally and in
the affirmative and in less than twenty
minutes was gone to her long sleep. Thus
her devotion to duty will ever be a dis-
tinguishing quality of her life. She died
at her home in Provo City, June 16, 1902.
	In looking over her papers her daugh-
ters found the following lines composed by
her on her sixty-ninth birthday, April 11,
1899:

WHEN I AM GONE.
When I am gone, lay this tired old body away,
	Let it rest until the coming of the morn,
Then my spirit will illumine this rough mold of clay,
	With a radiance as bright as the sun.

Let it rest in the glow of the life that is gone,
	Its trials and temptations are run,
One weary life’s journey is ended at last,
	Gone down with the setting sun.

What joy will be ours at the breaking of day
	With life’s gloomy shadows all gone,
No clouds to obstruct the glory of day,
	With Christ, the Eteanal One.

RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His divine wisdom
has called from our midst by death our beloved sister and
colaborer in the presidency of the Utah Stake of Zion,
(Relief Society) she being a faithful and devoted Latter-
day Saint and a useful member in society, humble and
steadfast to the cause of truth, aud has gone to rest to
join those dear loved ones in a better world beyond.
Therefore be it
	Resolved, That we recognize in this loss the will of
an Omnipotent God; but will feel the loss of our sister’s
presence at our meetings, and we will strive to emulate
her noble example and remember the fervent testimonies
she has borne from time to time in our midst.
	That we extend onr heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
children and friends in the loss of a kind and affectionate
mother and friend.
	That a copy of these resolutions be tendered to her
children and one be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
		MARY JOHN, President,
		MARILLA M DANIELS, Counselor.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
MARGARET HANNAH SUTTON. 
	Sister Margaret Hannah Sutton, daughter of
Richard and Ann Henderson Shepherd, died
May 16, 1902, at her home in Paris, Bear Lake
Co., Idaho, after a few hours illness. She had
been afflicted with heart troubles for several years,
which finally resulted in her death.
	Sister Sutton was born in Northshields, North-
umberland Co., England, December 11, 1838;
was baptized into the Church when ten years old
and with her parents emigrated to Utah in 1854,

[Column 2]
in Job Smith’s company. While en route she
passed through the many privations and hardships
incident to the trip. At that time cholera was
raging in St. Louis, and on their arrival there her
mother, Ann Henderson, was stricken with the
disease and later died at Quarantine Island. She,
with her father and sister, Mary S. Horne, contin-
ued their journey on to Utah, arriving here in
September, 1854.
	In 1858 she was married to John A. Sutton
Together they passed through the trying scenes of
the move south, and in 1869 they were called to
settle Paris, Bear Lake Co., where they have
since resided.
	Sister Sutton has been closely connected with
the Relief Society of that Stake, and has been an
infallible worker in that cause. She was beloved
by all who knew her. She possessed a strong
personal character and wielded an influence for
good wherever she went and not less strong was
her love for and devotion to the Gospel of Christ.
	Sister Sutton was the mother of ten sons and
one daughter. Her husband, seven sons, one
daughter and twenty-nine grandchildren survive
her, all of whom are faithful members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Six
of her sons were present and acted as pall-bearers
at her funeral.
	The funeral was held in Paris 1st ward meeting
house on Monday, May 19. Consoling remarks
were made by Elder George B. Spencer, Bishop
Robert Price and President William Budge, who
spoke highly of the good qualities of the de-
ceased. The floral offerings were numerous and
beautiful and a large cortege followed the remains
to their last resting place, where she will sleep in
peace until the resurrection. She lived and died
a faithful Saint and to know her was to love
her.
				LILLIAN M. HORNE.
ELIZABETH HANFORD.....
	The sudden death of Sister Elizabeth Hanford,
president of the Relief Society of the Twentieth
Ward, Salt Lake City, was indeed a great shock
to her relatives and intimate friends.
	The unlooked for occurrence took place at her
home, on Wednesday, June 18, 1902, the saddest
feature connected therewith being the absence of
her devoted husband, Brother John Hanford, who
was at his mine in the mountains.
	At about three o’clock p. m., Sister Hanford
had prepared lunch and her son, Ray, had par-
taken of the meal with her, after which he returned
to his work at the Post office, leaving his mother,
who seemed quite as well and cheerful as usual,
still sitting at the table and looking over a news-
paper. About twenty minutes to five the young
man received the overwhelming message that his
mother was dead.
	Fortunately, after being seized with strangula-
tion, of which she died, Sister Hanford was enabled
to reach the door and attract the attention of a little
neighbor girl, who immediately called a young
woman to her aid, so that she was not entirely
alone during the death struggle, which occurred
about fifteen minutes after her son had left her.
Elder William Noyce, Sister Hanford’s brother-
in-law, was called in and administered to her,
previous to the arrival of other friends.
	The startling intelligence of the sudden and
sorrowful death was swiftly carried about the
ward, and many friends gathered about the home
to render all possible service, among the fore-
most being Bishop George Romney and Sister
Hanford’s associate officers in the Relief Society.
	Two physicians were summoned who agreed
that nothing could have been done to prevent
what had happened, even had medical aid been
present at the moment of the attack.
	Sister Elizabeth C. A. Hanford was born
Octobor 25, 1850, at Woodhouse, Mansfield, Not-
tinghamshire England, and was fifty-two years,
seven months and twenty-four days old at the
time of her death.
	She embraced the Gespel in her youth and em-
migrated to Utah while she was still young. For
more than twenty years Sister Hanford has been
a faithful and efficient worker in the Twentieth
Ward Relief Society, and during different periods
of that time, has successfully and honorably filled
the various positions of member, teacher, assistant
secretary, counselor and president. The last
named office she had held for about three and a
half years at the time of her death
	Although very humble, Sister Hanford was, in
a practical sense, an exceedingly energetic and
ambitious woman, always willing to take more
than her share of the really hard work which be-
longs to the duties of the Relief Society. And
coupled with these sterling qualities she possessed


the tender, generous heart and open hand which
helped to create a president who was ever held in
high esteem by those over whom she presided, and
a woman who will be greatly missed in the
community where she lived for so many years.
	Her funeral which was largely attended, was
held at the ward meeting house, Sunday, June 22,
1902. Beautiful floral emblems were among the
many loving tributes paid to the memory of the
departed dear one. Counselors Annie T. Hyde, of
the General Board, and Sarah J. Cannon, of the
Salt Lake Stake Board, were among the various
speakers who testified of the noble character of
Sister Hanford, at the services.
	We say—
			Peace to her memory!
				Faithful unto the end;
			Hath proven now this honored one,
				Our sister and our friend.
 
					SUSAN T. ELLIS,
						First Counselor,
					MARGARET H. SALMON,
						Second Counselor,
					MARGARET C. SHARP,
						Secretary, 
					LOUISA L. G. RICHARDS,
						Treasurer.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
EMERY STAKE.
	The semi-annual Relief Society confer-
ence of the Emery Stake of Zion convened
at Huntington, April 25, 1902. There
were present from Salt Lake City Sisters
Emma S. Woodruff and L. L. G. Richards.
All of the Stake Board were present and
representatives from nine of the thir-
teen Relief Society organizations of the
Stake. President Mary A. Sorenson pre-
siding. Singing, “Come listen to a
prophet’s voice.” Prayer by Sister Mary
J. King. Singing, “Earth with her ten
thousand flowers. Stake statistical and
financial reports, also Stake fund report
read and accepted.
	President Sorenson welcomed all, was
pleased to see so many present. Reported
the labors of the Stake officers throughout
the various wards, and of visiting from one
society to another, encouraging the young
ladies to join the Relief Society and send-
ing visitors to the Y. L. N. M. I. and
Primary Associations. Was very pleased
to see the visiting sisters, knew we would
have an enjoyable time.
	Verbal reports were given by Mary
Westover, Huntington; Maria Day, Law-
rence Louisa Oveson, Cleveland; and
Rhoda E. Robertson, Orangeville.
	Each reported her society in excellent
working order and bore testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Solo, “Oh, how glorious will be that
day,” by Sister Rachel Killian, of Orange-
ville.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we were
the most blessed people on the face of the
earth. We should always be obedient to
the priesthood. If there should be any
differences among the sisters it should be
settled among themselves according to the
regular order; she then explained this mat-
ter. Told us of the visiting plan also of
encouraging the young ladies to join the
society and that the young men should

[Column 2]
also understand the Relief Society work.
Read the minutes of the first organization
of the Relief Society in the days of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the meetings
held in those days. Said we should al-
ways be kind, charitable and forgiving,
helping to build each other up. Advised
the mingling of parents with the young
people in their parties and amusements
drawing them nearer to us. A kind word
will do much good.
	Duet, “Should you feel inclined to cen-
sure,” by Sisters Cecelia Woodward and
Nan Leonard, of Huntington.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction by Bishop Peter
Johnson.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Come, O Thou King of Kings.” Prayer
by Brother J. E. King. Singing, “O
blest was that day.”
	Counselor Maria Guyman bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel. Said,
“Let us be charitable and speak a kind
word whenever possible.”
	Counselor M. J. King bore her testimony
and spoke of the good done by taking the
meetings to those not able to attend; also
reported the Ferron Society.
	Reports were given by Eliza Jorgensen,
Emery; Maria Allen, Castle Dale; Ann
Miller, Price; and Maria Christensen,
Castle Gate. All reported fully organized
and doing a good work.
	Brother D. C. Woodward had been a
much interested listener. Spoke of the
advantages the different organizations of the
Church placed in our reach.
	Sister L. L. G. Richards was much
gratified to meet with the sisters in this
Stake and to note the improvement Was
pleased to see so many young ladies pres-
ent. Spoke on visiting the Primaries. We
should never feel that any position in this
Church, no matter how humble, is menial.
Always give kind words and do kind
actions. Love begets love, the more we
give the more we will have. Advised all
to read the revelation given in the Doctrine
and Covenants, Sec 25. Spoke of com-
bining work and program meetings, of
singing, of the improvement throughout
the Stakes of Zion, of the spring conference
also the General Relief Society conference
and the Woman’s Building. Was pleased
to learn of the Relief Society houses and
granaries being built throughout the Stake.
Spoke of our children and how we should
guard them, as they are our heritage;
prayed the Lord to protect them from the
scourges abroad in the land. Spoke
strongly against profanity, also of visiting
the aged and making them happy whenever
possible.
	Duet, “Abide With Me,” Sisters Lizzie
Howard and Dezzie Johnson, of Hunting-
ton.
	Aunt Jane Woodward, of Huntington,
bore testimony to the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Spoke of the last society meeting
he attended, said his counsel was to sustain

[Column 3]
and uphold each other and not tear one
another down. Related an instance in the
life of the Prophet and Emma Smith.
Knew this was the work of God.
	Sister J. E. Childs was pleased to meet
with the brethren and sisters. Spoke of
the life of our Savior and the pattern set for
us.
	Stake Primary President Jennie Kilpack
knew the Spirit of the Lord had been in
our midst.
	Bishop Johnson was much interested in
the Relief Society work and the children
growing up around us, felt there was a
great work for parents.
	Stake Secretary Mary Miller prayed we
might treasure up the good things heard
this day and profit by them.
	President Sorensen hoped we would
make use of the instructions given. Felt
to thank the people of Huntington for their
kindness and hospitality; also thanked the
visiting sisters. Spoke of unity and record
making.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Benedic-
tion by Brother M. E. Johnson.
			MARY O. MILLER, Sec.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on
Monday, Oct. 13, 1902.

	For further information write to Dr. Roberts, 75
North State St. Telephone 748 d.

American Institute
of Phrenology,
Incorporated 1886,
OPENS ITS NEXT SESSION
SEPT. 3, 1902.
	For particulars apply to the Secretary,
M. H. Piercy, care of Fowler & Wells Co.,
14 East 22nd Street, New York.

Save Your Money! 
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1 & 15, 1902	Nos. 5-6


CONTENTS.
Items About Art. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A. M. H.	17
Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting. . .A. Wardrop	18
Eagar Ward. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charlotte Jensen	18
Letter from Chicago. . . . . . . .Alice M. Horne	19
R. S. Reports. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	21
Gains of Suffrage in Utah. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	22
In Memoriam. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	23
Biographical Sketch. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	23
Notes and News. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	23
EDITORIAL—Mrs Gates’ Trip to Europe. . . .	20
	Dedication Huntsville Relief Society Hall	20
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	20
POETRY—Work. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Selected	17
	When Roses Die. . . . . . .Maud E. Sargent	17
	The Ideal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . W.W	17
	Autumn Beeches. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	24
	The Legend of the Rose. . . . . . . . M. E. S.	24
	An August Day. . . . . . . . .Maud E Sargent	24
	Love’s Power. . . . . . . . . Josephine Pollard	24


WORK.
One single day’s allotted task well done—
	That is a comfort to the weary head;
	Better than feathers for the toiler’s bed
Is the sweet thought to go to rest upon.
How calm he lies who never thought to shun
	The burden’s utmost weight, how quickly sped
	The passing hours for him by labor led
To full enjoyment of sleep’s haven won!
So, when our day of life is growing dark,
	And time is up, though there be much to do,
And we must sleep, for it is eventide,
When for our last far dreamland we embark,
	Soft will death’s pillow be for me and you,
If only when our work was hard—we tried.


WHEN ROSES DIE.

When roses die, all crimson glow
	The fading leaves that soon shall lie
Upon the forest pathway low.
When roses die
	The winds of Autumn sadly sigh.

The waves are crowned with foamy snow,
	And shadows cross the changing sky,
And rain-filled streamlets swiftly flow,
	The fickle swallows southward fly,
My thoughts go back to long ago,
	When roses die.
			MAUD E. SARGENT.


[picture of female students]
Jessie Paskett	Maud Neeley	Lulu Bates	Cora Ashton	Minnie Healey	Alice Tate	Mary Wright	Louise Kunzler
Nellie Worthen	Olga Reiser	Vandla Crofton	Laura Thacheray	Josephine Gruell	Rebecca Gustaveson Emma Lawrence

	We present in this issue some more pictures of groups of lady students in the Latter day Saints University. The
movement for both the higher and practical education of women that is characteristic of the present age, has hitherto
been referred to in these columns, as has also the attitude of this institution in forming this movement. The tendencies
already shown by this institution to whatever makes for the advancement of our young ladies in all those studies that
give true culture and refinement and impart usefulness in the home, has led us to make these observations. The home,
in the view of the Latter-day Saints, is a divine institution, which is to continue forever, if rightly formed and honorably
maintained. No culture can be too generous, no learning too high, no acquirements too good, for use in the home. The
girls of our Church schools will no doubt have advantages peculiar to our view of the heavenly character of our earthly
homes, and we once more congratulate them on this fact.


[Column 1]
ITEMS ABOUT ART.
	It is pleasant to note that the women
artists of the State are recognized in the
State Board of Art appointed by Governor
Wells and the Senate of the State Legisla-
ture.
	At the recent election in the governing
board of the Utah Art Institute, Miss
Mary Teasdel was elected president, Mrs.
Edna Wells Sloan secretary, and Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne treasurer—all places
of trust and requiring executive ability.
The other officers are W. E. Ware, vice-
president, H. L. A. Culmer, J. T. Har-
wood and George H. Taggart members of
the governing board with the officers

[Column 2]
named. Mr. Taggart, Edwin Evans and
John Hafen comprise the Exhibition Com-
mittee, and Mr. Evans, Mrs. Horne and
Harry Stuttard have the appointment to
the Lectureship Committee. Mrs. Julia E.
Rawlins, Mrs. T. Hills and Mrs. Emma J.
McVicker have charge of the “Alice Art
Collection.”
	Mr. Stuttard has just returned from
New York where he has been studying
for three years, and is appointed Art In-
structor at the Agricultural College, Lo-
gan, in place of Miss Louise Richards, who
has resigned to go to Paris this month,
where she will pursue for two years the
study of art.

[Column 3]
	Miss Rachel Edwards and Miss Priscella
Smith will leave for Paris with Dr. H. J.
Richards’ party on tho 16th of August.
Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Harwood and children,
Mrs W. J. Richards and daughters, Blanche,
Louise and Lily Richards, and others will
be of the party.
	At the last meeting of the U. S. D. R.,
on suggestion of Dr. Benedict, a dozen
sheets were provided by the society to sup-
ply the needs of the National Guard Hospi-
tal cots.
	Miss Mary Teasdel was the second
Utah woman to have work exhibited at
the Salon. Three miniatures and an oil
portrait were also received; the miniature


was accepted at the Paris Exposition—A
rare honor. One of Miss Teasdel’s pic-
tures, “French Peasants Knitting,” was
bought by the Institute of Art for the col-
lection of paintings.
	The prizes to be awarded are as follows:
	1. A bronze medal of honor will be
given for the best work of art in the exhi-
bition. Open to resident and non resident
artists. This medal may be withheld if in
the opinion of the awarding committee no
work exhibited is of sufficient merit.
	2 The State prize, $300.00, will be
given for the best painting by a Utah resi-
dent artist, the painting to become a part 
of the Alice Art Collection.
	3. Institute prizes, open to resident
artists:
	$50.00 for the best water color, the
painting with its frame to become part of
the Alice Art Collection. Honorable men-
tion for the second best water color.
	Z. C. M. I. offers $25.00 for the best
plan for country home, including house,
barns and pens, to cost about $3000.
	Deseret National bank offers $25.00 for
best design for lace collar to be executed
in Utah silk. The sego lily must enter
into the design.
	The Young Woman’s Journal offers
$20.00 for design for book cover to be used
to cover the Journal.
	Zion’s Savings Bank offers $10.00 for best
study in clay or plaster from life by a 
student of the State.
	W. S. McCornick offers $10.00 for the
best study in color by a student of the
State.
	Honorable mention second best.
	Mrs. Solomon Siegel offers $10.00 for the
best design for silk fabric
	$10 00 for best still life study.
	Mr. H. L A. Culmer offers $10.00 as
student’s prize for High School.
	Miss Mary Teasdel offers $10.00 as
student’s prize for University.
	$5 00 will be given for best design in
each of the following lines of art:
	Poster, wood carving, wrought metal,
pyrography, tiling, wall paper.
	$5.00 for best group of three photo-
graphs.
					A. M. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, June 21, 1902,
President Bathsheba W Smith presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Arise, O
glorious Zion.” Prayer by Sister Frances
Smith. Singing, “Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah.” Minutes of last meeting
read and accepted.
	President B. W. Smith then addressed
the sisters. Urged them to live in love
and union with one another, said mothers
should teach their children the principles
of the Gospel and how to live them. She
enjoyed working in the Temple.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said that we
had much to do, urged all to set a good
example at all times.
	Sister Stevenson then explained the nec-
essity of the mothers teaching their chil-
dren the way to do right, and not so much
time spent in society circles of life; that
mothers should not be afraid to tell their
children they love them, but implant love
and peace in their hearts and teach them to
be kind to one another and to set a good
example. Sister Margaret Sharp felt to

[Column 2]
regret the loss of their president, Sister
Hanford. She was a good woman to the
poor, she felt that the poor should be
looked after.
	Sisters Taylor and Wright bore faithful
testimonies.
	Sister Alder spoke of the many testi-
monies she had while on her mission to
England, also of many circumstances that
heppened while she was away. Said she
was very desirous of helping a family
from England who cannot help themselves.
She spoke of their goodness and faithful-
ness and asked the sisters to help her to
raise the means that they might come to
Zion.
	The sisters contributed $16.00 to help
the family migrate.
	The congregation sang the hymn,
“Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
	Sister Hardy spoke of the poor in the
world and the many oppositions they have
to meet and their great desire to come to
Zion.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she had
a strong testimony when she was young.
Spoke of the purity of the ordinances of
the Temple and urged all to be faithful to
the truth.
	Sisters Latham, Beaching and Buzzo,
also another sister in the congregation bore
their testimonies.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks
Benediction by Sister Sarah J. Cannon.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting, held in the 14th ward hall, Salt
Lake City, July, 1902, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing, “Lord we
come before Thee now.” Prayer by Sister
Elizabeth Paul. Singing, “Come, O Thou
King of kings.” Minutes of the last meet-
ing read and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson then addressed the sis-
ters, referring to the conferences she had
visited in some of the southern settlements.
Urged all to bear their testimony, told
how the sisters that live so far away
appreciate the testimonies of the sisters
published in the EXPONENT. Referred to
the goodness of Aunt Zina Young. Sang,
“What was witnessed in the heavens.”
	Sister Diana Read testified to the good-
ness of the Lord to her in the Temple.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt that we should
all strive to maintain a standing in the
Church, spoke of the strength derived from
hearing the testimonies of others. Urged
the mothers to watch their children, to
teach them the principles of the Gospel,
and referred to her young days, how the
teachings of her parents had made a good
and lasting impression on her through life.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon testified of
the good effect the Relief Society work had
upon the sisters. Spoke of the excursion
that will take place sometime soon, wished
all to be interested.
	Sister Webb spoke of the necessity of
taking care of our children, we should be
careful how we talk to and before them at
all times.
	Sister Silver told the sisters of the very
pleasant trip she had in California and
other places, how kindly they were treated,
and referred to several places of interest
that she visited.
	Sister Taylor thought the schools that
are in our midst are a great benefit to our
children.
	Sister Phelps bore her testimony and
urged all to live faithful.

[Column 3]
	Sister Jane Young addressed the sisters.
She said she was a pioneer, and was anx-
ious that all should lay up provisions for
the future, she felt that great calamities 
were coming in the near future. She had
passed through many trials.
	Sister Butterworth referred to many
trials and trying circumstances that the
people witnessed in years gone by, and
spoke of the necessity of mothers taking
care of their children. She felt there was
too much time spent in pleasure seeking.
	Sister Squires told of the thankfulness of
a sister for being prayed for at the meeting
some time ago. She felt to testify of the
goodness of the Lord to her when she was
a child, caring for her when coming to this
country all alone. Told how kind friends
took care of her and the poverty she ex-
perienced in many ways.
	Sister Emma Ridd bore her testimony.
	Counselor Stevenson referred to the
early days and urged all to lay up grain
and flour, to be wise virgins in very deed.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks,
Singing, “Come, let us anew.” Benedic-
tion by Sister L. D. Alder.
		AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


EAGAR WARD.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
ST. JOHNS STAKE, ARIZONA.
	We thought perhaps the sisters would
like to know how we are getting along in
this far away ward. Our Relief Society is
fully organized and in good running order.
	We celebrated the 17th of March and
had an enjoyable time and received our re-
quired dues. Already this year we have
done a good deal of charity work and
though we are few in numbers and poor in
pocket, we hope and desire to possess that
which is beyond all price, even a goodly
portion of the Holy Spirit.
	We send greeting and good wishes to all
the sisters engaged in this same great
work.
		CHARLOTTE JENSEN, Pres.


Mrs. S. S. Fessenden will speak in
Mystic, Conn., Thursday, August 21, at
the 36th anniversary meeting of the Uni-
versal Peace Union and the 35th of the  
Connecticut Peace Society. Her subject
will be “Women and Peace.” A large
gathering is expected.
	Mrs Helen Coffin Beedy, of Bangor, Me.,
President of the Dorathea Dix Memorial
Association, invites all friends who appre-
ciate true merit to honor the memory of
Miss Dix by contributions of articles for
the sale, or membership of one dollar, or
children’s names with five cents each for
the honor role.
	Mrs. M. E Skillings, one of the charter
members of the New England Woman’s
Press Association, celebrated her 77th
birthday last week at her home in Arling-
ton. The Press Association sent her an
official letter of congratulation and a
basket of flowers, and by concerted action
many of the club women sent her personal
letters and gifts and other tokens of re-
membrance, these coming from all parts of
New England.
							—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM CHICAGO.
		Chicago, June 22, 1902.
Dear Ones at Home:
	You will be glad to know that I found
Miss Locke the day I arrived at Chicago
Upon landing at the Union depot Mrs.
Virginia Snow Stephen and her mother
were met by Dr. Harding. From there I
telephoned to the Plaza hotel and found
that my friend had come from New York
and had taken a cottage on the south side,
near 27th St.
	My companions kindly offered to accom-
pany me to my destination, but it was not
necessary, and I knew their dear ones
lf were anxiously waiting to see them, so we
parted, for the time, and I went over
familiar ground in quest of Miss Locke on
the Wabash and Cottage Grove and Jack-
son Park car, landing at the spot, 57th St.,
where we used to get off when bound for
the World’s Fair grounds. Turning to
Rosalie Court I found myself at my
journeys end, and a ring at the door
brought Miss Kundson, my friend’s com-
panion and fellow traveler. I began to
take out my card, but she said, “Put up
up your card, I know who you are, come

[Column 2]
with me,” So, leading the way through the
reception hall and drawing room into the
dining room, where they were seated at
dinner, she announced, “Josephine C.
Locke, here is Alice Merrill Horne of
Utah.” Then there was the embrace of
old friends. Though we had never met
face to face, years of correspondence and
mutual help and effort in the line of art
development for the masses had created a
bond of loving friendship between us. We
were all so happy! I was given a hearty
welcome and as soon as I was seated at
table they plied me with questions about
my children and family, of the work of the
Art Institute and the Utah artists. Miss
Locke is a very fine looking woman and
has a truly magnificent presence. She was
larger and grander than I expected to find
her, and of me she said, “Look at her, she
is a little, slender woman, a Puritan
maiden, a Priscilla.” So we were all mer-
ry over the wrong impressions we had
entertained of each other.
	When I told them I could only stay
away from you ten days or two weeks,
they insisted I must never leave for six
weeks. Their friend, “Kendall,” as they
call her, has gone to Denver and will not
return for two weeks, and they say I must

[Column 3]
see “Kendall” before I leave Chicago.
	Miss Kundson, or “Kundy,” is also
very hospitable and is never happier than
when entertaining friends. She vows she
would never live in a house where there is
not room for one more. In all Miss Locke’s
travels in Egypt, Palestine, Italy, Ger-
many, France and Holland, “Kundy” has
been her interesting companion.
	The third member of the household is
Mary, a sweet young girl who is sewing 
for Miss Locke. We make a happy
quartette.
	After dinner Miss Locke said, “We will,
take a walk and I have a sweet surprise
for you.”
	We went just a little way and Jackson
Park burst upon our view revealing the
charming outline of the Fine Arts build-
ing of the World’s Fair and Lake Michigan
beyond.
	What a whirl of memories rushed upon
me at the sight! We walked up the
broad terrace on the north side toward the
beach. On our right no trace is left of the
New York, Pennsylvania and Massachu-
setts State buildings, a sweep of lawn has
taken the place of all the State buildings.
Pausing often to admire the noble and in-
spiring piece of architecture, which seems

[Picture of female students]
	Annie Grether		Eva Stevenson	Ada Brook		May Rushforth	Minnie Homewood
Gertrude Moss	Viola Denhalter	Viola Thirkill		Mary Plepgrass	Mamie Silver		Hilda Burton

[Column 1 below the picture]
to stand as a prophecy of the beautiful
there is yet to come into the architecture of
the New America. Passing to the rustic
seats on the lake shore, once again I
watched the waves roll in and beat
against the rocks on the beach and heard
the music of the rushing water that you
and I loved years ago. 
	To the right the German building rises
a poetical edifice telling the story of the
Fatherland in its charm of form, coloring
and ornament. I could almost hear the
chime of the bells loaned during the Fair
from the Church of Mercy, Berlin. Thus
stimulated, to my mind the whole scene
of the World’s Fair came. It was evening,
a soft light was in the sky, a moment of
enchantment! Giving ourselves up to the
sentiment of the moment we strolled on
hand in hand toward home, walking in the
cool and soft grass.
	This spot I often visited, generally in 
early morning or at evening. Once Mary
and I ran over to the beach before five
to see the morning effect in Johnson Park.

[Column 2 below the picture]
It was cool and beautiful, the atmosphere
soft and hazy; down the beach by the
quaint German building, on past the life-
saving station and down by the Convent
La Rabida, scarcely anything else remains
except here and there some mark recalls
the position of the court of honor or some
other building. The graceful bridges re-
main in many places. The Santa Maria
Pinta and Nina are still there, lonesome re-
minders of the past, all was desolate about
them. They are building an artificial
lagoon on which to place them for use.
	My way back home led me over the
island, and once more I saw the Japanese
tea gardens, a beautiful little building
good fortune has preserved.
	The drops of dew were heavy on the grass
and trees, and the sun coming up turned
them into sparkling gems. On the green
a few golf players were happily engaged in
their favorite sport. After the sun came
we did not tarry, but with glad hearts for
the good things we were privileged to en-
joy, we. took our way back to Rosalie

[Column 3 below the picture]
Court, where we were content to see from
the dining room windows the “corat”
trees, as Miss Locke called them, gently
moving and whispering to each other, re-
vealing beyond the dome of the Fine Arts
building.
		ALICE MERRILL HORNE.


THE IDEAL.

Think not thou ever shalt attain
	To all that highest seems,
Hope not at any time to reign
	The monarch of thy dreams.

If at a step thy foot should feel
	The height that lures thy soul,
That height would other heights reveal
	Above its longed-for goal.

And should an angel lend thee wings
	To soar from peak to peak,
Thy furthest flight would show the things
	Far off and still to seek.

But though thy journey never cease—
	From light to greater light—
Would’st change it for a sluggish peace,
	With earth alone in sight?
						W. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1 & 15, 1902.


MRS. GATES’ TRIP TO EUROPE.
	The visit of Mrs. Susa Y. Gates to
Copenhagen, where she went to attend the
Executive session of the International
Council of Women, which convened in
July, is a very significent event.
	Mrs. Gates is the chairman of the
Press Committee of the National Council
of the United States and expected to act as
proxy for Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, chair-
man of the Press Committee of the Inter-
national Council, but at the last moment
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, president of
the International Council, was unable to
leave home and appointed Mrs Gates her
proxy, and another lady from Canada was
appointed proxy for Mrs. Harper on the
Press Committee, Miss Emily Cummings.
	As Mrs. Sewall’s proxy Mrs. Gates was
the recipient of many courtesies and atten-
tions, both on the steamer, and more
especially on her arrival in Copenhagen.
She made the acquaintance of a large num-
ber of distinguished people, and was in-
vited to dinners, receptions and parties,
many more than it was possible to attend.
She was the only woman representative
from the United States present at the
Council sessions.
	From the Council Mrs. Gates went by
invitation of Mme. Chapponnier to Switzer-
land, where she remained visiting and en-
joying the beauties of that picturesque
romantic and celebrated scenery of moun-
tains and lakes in that charming vicinity.
	Mrs. Gates has had a most interesting and
enjoyable time, although she was very ill
during her stay at Geneva or at the sum-
mer home on the lake where she was the
guest of Mme. Chapponniere. She visited
the Castle of Chillon while in Switzerland,
and will, of course, give us a description
of it in some of her letters from abroad or
lectures after returning home. She sailed
on the New England from Liverpool,
August 13, and has already reached her
native land
	Mrs. Gates was invited to visit Miss
Susan B. Anthony at Rochester, N. Y.,
and Mrs. May Wright Sewall at Indianap-
olis, Indiana en route homeward.


[Column 1]
DEDICATION HUNTSNILLE RELIEF
		SOCETY HALL.

	Services opened with singing “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Prayer by Counselor N. C. Flygare.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”

[Column 2]
	The president, Sister Eliza Tracy, made
opening remarks welcoming the people
and naming the sisters and brethren pres-
ent as visitors and mentioned that it was a
day long looked forward to, asked for the
blessing of the Lord on all assembled and
rejoiced to see them.
	President Jane S. Richards felt pleased
and thankful to see the house and the
faces of those who were there. Thought of
those were who present ten years ago today,
when the corner stone was laid, alluded to
Weber Stake House and to the early days
in the work, was pleased to see the rag
carpet and mentioned the Bishop’s help
in the matter of building. The spirit of
the Gospel is not selfishness, “but, sisters,
give your time and meet often,” and to the
young women she said to come and bring
their babies, teach the children to be good
and give them good training “Now you
have your house come and see what the
mothers and grandmothers have to tell you.
	Stake Counselor Hattie C. Brown was
pleased to meet with the sisters, congratu-
lated them and was pleased to endorse
Sister Richards’ remarks. Sister Richards
need not depreciate the House for Weber
Stake. The Lord blesses his children in
their labors for Him, and will in the great
hereafter. We have great happiness in
having a house of our own. Sister Rich-
ards and Sister Wells have traveled from
one end of the State to the other and
others also. Spoke lovingly of Sister Rich-
ards.
	Bishop McKay, “Mother’s day in Is-
rael,” recommended the young women to
follow the counsel of Sister Richards. It is
no wonder that the Lord told the Prophet
to organize the sisters together. This
house is to be dedicated to the Lord for the
benefit and blessing of the Relief Society.
Explained in reference to the building and
spoke of the laying of the corner stone.
Said, Counselor C. F. Middleton will now
offer the dedicatory prayer.”
	The prayer was very eloquent and full
of meaning. All joined in the Amen.
	Singing, “O my Father, Thou that
dwellest.” Benediction by Counselor Engs-
trum.
	At noon all were invited to the upper
hall where a sumptuous banquet had been
prepared, and when the guests were seated
President Middleton pronounced the bless-
ing upon the food; and a most enjoyable
feast it was for all the large assembly. The
time flew swiftly, and lest the Relief Society
hall would not hold the larger gathering
in the afternoon, the services were held in
the Huntsville meeting house.
	Afternoon session, held in the Hunts-
ville meeting house, opened with singing
“All hail the glorious day.” Prayer by
Elder C F. Scaddy. “Hark ten thousand
voices.” Sacrament administered.
	Sketch of the Relief Society from Dec-
ember 1867, read Mary J. Hammond,
president; reorganized March 11, 1878.
	Counselor C. F. Middleton wondered
why it was he was the first to speak on
this occasion when the history of the little
society there had been read. Spoke of the
roads, said he was the first to help make a
road into that valley, was with President
Young when he first visited that little
place, was present when that meeting
house was dedicated. “Many of the first
who came here have passed to the beyond.
The people here have been wonderfully
blest.” Said he had always felt interested

[Column 3]
in the Relief Society. Three days after
the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief
Society he baptized him in the Mississippi
river. Said President Joseph Smith was
the best looking man in the Church, etc.
These are mothers in Israel, spoke upon
consecration and of the changes that have
taken place. Commended Sister Richards’
labors in building the Stake house.
	President Jane S. Richards then ad-
dressed the sisters, was glad to be in
Huntsville on such a pleasant occasion, al-
though it made her a little bit sad to re-
member ten years before, but we must all
have trials. We were organized in the
days of poverty, when we had very little
to do with, but we are differently situated
today, a kind word with a little help in
sickness and in trouble is worth everything.
Alluded to Brother Amasa Lyman once
helping her to lift her wagon when she was
traveling and her husband was on a mis-
sion, she had often thought of it. We can
do little things for each other Spoke of
attending the first Relief Society in Nau-
voo, when she used to go and carry her
little baby girl, she had to walk and
thought it such a pleasure. Thought we
ought to help those who were weak in the
faith even more than those in need of other
things. Spoke of the sisters bearing testi-
mony, and young people attending meet-
ings and getting posted on Relief Society
work; felt the house was a blessing.
	Stake Counselor H[-]ttie C. Brown spoke
of her early life, how anxious she was to
gather with the Church, believed in conse-
cration, was willing to give whatever she
had, wanted to live her religion, always
felt better when she attended her meetings,
realized we were blest of the Lord through
our faithfulness.
	Bishop McKay appreciated the Relief
Society, their labors of love. Praised the
sketch of the society written and read by
the secretary, spoke happily of President B
W. Smith, said our good wishes and bless-
ings upon her and upon those who are
absent from among us whom we wanted in
our midst on this occasion, for men and for
women, and made excellent remarks about
brethren and sisters who had gone before.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke a short time
upon the magnitude of the Relief Society,
the importance of the work, the great bene-
fit it would be to young women, etc.
	Sister Belona Scaddy, one of the trustees
in the Relief Society, bore her testimony
and felt it a pleasure to belong to the Relief
Society, she had very much enjoyed listen-
ing to the sisters, etc.
	Sister Babbit, of Salt Lake City, spoke
of Sister B. W. Smith not being able to
come, as she was not well, and thought it
would be unwise to venture, she wanted to
save herself for the Temple. Said, “We
in the Temple call her our queen, she pre-
sides with such grace and dignity.”
	President Jane S. Richards invited the
brethren and sisters to attend the Confer-
ence in Ogden in the new hall the second
Thursday in September and spoke par-
ticularly about the children coming to
meeting, the places they would be called to
fill when grown to men and women, she
was pleased to see them in the meeting.
We live for the children, we can’t teach
them too much.”
	Some announcements of meetings were
made and the choir sang, “We’re not
ashamed to own our Lord.” Benediction
by Stake Counselor N. C. Flygare.


After the close of the meeting the guests
from a distance repaired to the upper hall
to partake of supper in readiness for those
who had a long ride before them. The
Huntsville sisters were most hospitable in
their entertainment, and we shall ever re-
member the great pleasure of the visit with
those good people. The carriage ride
through Ogden canon was delightful, and
altogether the day was one never to be for-
gotten.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Cannon Ward was held on Friday,
August 8, at the residence of the president,
Sister Caroline Y. Cannon. The parlors
and large hall were handsomely decorated
for the occasion with beautiful flowers.
After singing, the opening prayer was
offered by Patriarch Williams, and Mrs.
Willard T. Cannon sang a solo, “Consider
the Lilies How They Grow.” Minutes
of the meeting in 1901 were read by the
secretary, Sister Martha T. Cannon, and
some statements made in regard to work
accomplished during the year. Brief re-
marks were made by the president and by
the former president, Sister Sarah J. Can-
non, also by Sisters Sarah Davey, E. B.
Wells and Phebe Y. Beatie. After the
closing exercises delicious refreshments
were served and a social hour was enjoyed.
Mrs. Cannon is a fine presiding officer and
a genial hostess.
	Conferences attended and Stakes visited
since the July number of the paper
was published are Davis, Big Horn, Sum-
mit, Fremont, Teton, Bingham, Millard
and Uintah. Weber Stake was omited
in the last list published. Those who have
visited are President Bathsheba W. Smith,
First Counselor Annie T. Hyde, President
M. Isabella Horne, Counselor Sarah J.
Cannon, Sisters Emmeline B. Wells, Julina
L. Smith, Emma Woodruff, Elizabeth J.
Stevenson, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe
Y. Beatie, Margaret A. Caine, Lydia D.
Alder, Harriet Ann Badger and L. L.
Greene Richards. This makes forty Stakes
visited so far this year since the April con-
ference. Besides these Stakes, Counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry has visited the
branches of the Relief Society in the Cali-
fornia mission, and it was anticipated that
Sister Susa Young Gates would visit the
Relief Society in Copenhagen, and if time
would permit other branches of the society
in the Scandinavian mission. The work
is growing rapidly and there is great need
of younger women who are better able to
travel in the interests of the organizations.
The labor of ministering to the needy and
caring for the sick and unfortunate should
commend itself to all the young women in
the Church to lend a helping hand.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
MALAD STAKE.
	Minutes of Malad Stake Relief Society
conference held in Malad City, June 23,
1902. On the stand were Apostle M. F.
Cowley, Sister Emilia D. Madsen one of
the General Board of the Relief Society,
President Milton H. Welling and counsel-
ors, and presidents of Relief Society in the
Stake. 
	Meeting opened by the choir singing
“Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Elder

[Column 2]
Samuel D. Davis. Continued by singing
“My God, the spring of all my joys.”
	President Milton H. Welling stated that
Sister Hoskins who had labored so
faithfully for fourteen years as president
of the Malad Stake Relief Society was
honorably released on account of poor
health. A vote of thanks was given to the
retiring presidency.
	Sister Julia A. Richards was sustained
as president, with Sisters Alice A. Smith
and Eliza V. Ward as counselors and Sister
Eliza A. Hall secretary.
	Prof. Woosley sang “Mother is the Best
Sweetheart of All.”
	Sister Madsen rejoiced to meet with the
sisters of this Stake. We enjoy a glorious
privilege in administering to our sick, let
us be faithful to the sacred trust placed in
us, never let the poor suffer whether they
belong to our Church or not. Let kind-
ness and love abound among the sisters of
the Relief Society.
	Sister Julia Brixen said there are many
temptations laid for the youth of Zion.
Mothers have confidence in your sons and
daughters, and strive to draw them near
unto you, prayed that the youth of Zion
might be protected from sin.
	Apostle Cowley spoke of the kind and
gentle influence in this meeting. Asked
the mothers to solicit their sons and
daughters to take an earnest interest in the
work of God. Hoped the young people
would cultivate a spirit of charity and vir-
tue. Many young people have been saved
by taking the counsel of their mothers.
We want our children to be prepared to
stand in power, and carry off the kingdom
of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith
turned the key for the advancement of
women in this dispensation. Asked the
children to honor their parents.
	The choir sang “We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet.” Meeting adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Brigham
Jones.
	Conference convened promptly at 2 p.
m. Meeting opened by singing, “God
moves in a mysterious way.” Prayer by
Sister Annie Sawyer. Services continued
by singing, “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.”
	President Julia A. Richards felt to mag-
nify her calling in the Relief Society, felt it
a duty to live up to her privileges.
	Counselor Eliza V. Ward hoped to be
able to do her duty in her calling as a
Stake officer.
	Secretary Eliza A. Hall expressed her
desire to do her duty and gain a salvation
with the faithful.
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen said, “How
perfect is the work of these organizations.
Sister Dusenbury sends love to all the sis-
ters. Let us center our minds on the work
of our Heavenly Father.” Spoke of the
Woman’s Building and the 17th of March
celebration, and the peace meetings that
have been held, of our duties to the sick
and poor.
	The officers of the General Board were
sustained by unanimous vote.
	President William H. Gibbs spoke of the
good work that had been done by the re-
tiring presidency of the Stake Relief
Society and asked God’s blessings on all
assembled.
	The choir sang “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning,” Benediction by Presi-
dent Moroni Ward.
			ELIZA A. HALL, Sec.

[Column 3]
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
in Paris 1st ward hall, June 2, 1902,
President Julia P. Lindsay presiding.
	Opened by singing, “O Jesus, the
Giver.” Prayer by President Budge.
Singing, “Great God attend.” Visitors
from the General Board present, Sisters E.
B. Wells and S. J. Cannon.
	Minutes of last conference read and
approved.
	Paris 1st ward reported by President J.
Stucki; Paris 2nd ward, Sarah Ashley;
Bloomington, Sister Patterson; St. Charles,
Sister Young; Fish Haven, Sister Nelson;
Ovid, Sister Jensen.
	Sister J. P. Lindsay reported the Stake;
felt satisfied with the reports that had been
given, praised the sisters for their liberal-
ity and for responding when any call was
made upon them and felt encouraged in
the outlook for the future.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon gave excellent
counsel. Said, “Do not speak evil of each
other, build each other up.” Contrasted
the difference now with our 30,000 mem-
bers, to the few at the first organization.
Referred to the changes in regard to the
rights of women in the last few years.
Spoke of building houses to meet in and
granaries, but felt we should never forget
the poor and sick, always be willing to
help our Bishops, and then when we need
help we can with justice ask them to help
us. Advised peace at home, and then our
children would be peaceful citizens and
obedient to the priesthood. Gave good
advice in regard to taking care of wheat,
Thought there were many opportunities for
presenting and explaining Gospel items
Related some of her own conversations
with people where many questions were
asked. Through her being inspired to
take a “Voice of Warning” once, quite a
few people perused its pages and made
further inquiries into the Gospel. Urged
mothers not to hide the faults of their chil-
dren from their father, but be a helpmate
to him. Spoke of her three sons on mis-
sions, and said how necessary it was for us
to instruct our children in their youth in
everything that is right and good. “May
the Lord shower His blessings down upon
us is my prayer for us all.”
	The Sheep Creek ward was then reported
by Sister Perkins.
	Sister E. B. Wells was happy to be with
us. Said, “Sister Smith, our beloved
president, sends her love to you all.”
She then spoke of the book entitled, “The
General Relief Society: Officers, Objects
and Status.” Recommended the book and
thought a history of the Relief Society
would be written in the near future. Al-
luded to the 17th of March anniversaries
and said see that the annual fees are regul-
arly paid. Spoke briefly of the magnitude
of the society and of the greatness of the
work in various lands. Asked the Lord
to bless us in the name of Jesus.
	Closed by singing “How firm a founda-
tion.” Benediction by James H. Hart. 
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 p.
m., President J. S. Lindsay presiding.
	Opened by singing “O God, our help in
ages past” Prayer by J. R. Shepherd.
Singing, “As the dew from heaven distill-
ing.”
	Liberty ward reported by Sister Austin;
Montpelier, Sister Agnes Pierson; Ray-
mond and Georgetown, report read by


[Column 1]
Sister L. Tueller; Sharon, Sister Smith.
Officers of the General Board presented by 
President Budge and sustained by unani- 
mous vote, also officers of Bear Lake Stake 
sustained by unanimous vote.
	Sister E. M. Hart said, “We find every-
thing going along all right in our midst, it
takes a united effort of all the sisters to
make anything a success. I often think
what a responsible position it is to repre-
sent our Stake in a proper manner. As
President Lindsay was not able, Sister 
Bagley, Sister A. Hoge and myself visited
the different branches of the society in this 
Stake recently, and they are doing a great
deal of good. The work of the Relief
Society is to look after the sick, poor and
downcast. In our different district con-
ferences we have had the support of the
brethren. It will be good for us to study
domestic science and always have good 
bread and butter on hand. I always take
pleasure in reading that useful little paper,
the EXPONENT.” Sister Hart exhorted
the sisters to help a little further with the
academy. Prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister E. B. Wells congratulated us on
having Sister Lindsay for our president,
she being one of the veterans who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Related some
of her early experiences, also bore her testi-
mony. Spoke of when she first saw the
Prophet Joseph, told many interesting
items concerning what she knew of him.
“In regard to our work in the Relief 
Society, we should think of others before
ourselves,” Referred to the branches of
the society in many places all over the
world, even in New Zealand there were
eight good branches. Urged the sisters to
become intelligent and read and study our
Church works, that will help develop the
best that is worth knowing We have
among us sisters of various nations and it
 would be well for us to hold meetings be- 
sides our regular testimony and business
meetings, where we could introduce short
talks and become acquainted with the
habits and customs of other countries have
singing and music and short lectures by
the sisters, and by doing this those that
feel so timid in speaking would be
strengthened and gain confidence in them-
selves and be instructed at the same time,
and these meetings should be presided
over by the president and opened and
closed with prayer. Humility brings
down the blessings of heaven, we must
keep humble, and if energetic we can do a
great deal of good to each other. Ex-
plained that the Relief Society was both
national and international, having branches
in the different countries besides the
United States, almost all over the world.
Related some pleasing incidents of her
travels and of the opportunities to speak 
upon our Relief Society work Mentioned 
attending the International Council in
London where sixteen different countries
were represented. When a young girl she
noticed the boys could receive the priest-
hood when old enough and wondered what
there was for women, but since that time
many avenues for woman’s advancement
had opened up and the good work they
do among the poor and sick through
the Relief Society can not be estimated.
Asked the Lord to bless us all with His
Holy Spirit.
	Sister Cannon spoke in the interest of
our EXPONENT and desired the sisters to
subscribe for the same and help maintain

[Column 2]
it. Bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel and exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness. Felt blest in attending meet-
ings and doing every duty. Told the
mothers to bring the children to their
meetings when they could not leave them
in safety. Spoke upon charity and kind-
ness to one another, felt better when at-
tending to every duty and knew it was
good to be obedient.
	President Budge said the time was far
spent but knew we had received valuable
instructions from our visitors. “May the
Lord bless our sisters in this visit among
the people. The presidency of the Stake
appreciate very much the way the presi-
dent and counselors of the Relief Society
in this Stake work among the people in
the various associations, and the great help
they are to the Church. May the Lord
bless and help us all in the name of Jesus.”
	President James H. Hart would not re-
fuse an opportunity to speak, had enjoyed
the meeting and the spirit of the same, had
been pleased with the things that had
been done and said, desired the blessings
of the Lord to be poured out upon our
visitors
	President Lindsay felt amply paid for all
she had to pass through in coming to the
conference. This organization has been
brought about for the benefit of our
mothers. Would soon visit through the
Stake again. Was thankful for the portion
of health and strength now, as she had
been very sick through the winter.
	Sister Louise Rogers Tueller was then
set apart as corresponding secretary,
Brother Janies H Hart being mouth.
	Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Bene-
diction by Brother John Bagley. 
		L R. TUELLER, Cor. Sec.
MT. GLEN, OREGON.
	Thinking you would be pleased to hear
from our little society away out in Oregon,
I take pleasure in informing you that
though few in number our society is in
good condition and I feel although we are
far away from headquarters, we will in the
near future be the means of doing much
good. All the members are alive to their
duties and are trying with their united
efforts to make our society second to none
in the State of Oregon. Although we are
laboring under a great many difficulties
still I do know that the Lord is blessing
the Saints in this beautiful valley and that
He will continue to pour out His blessings
on His children wherever they may be so
long as they are trying to do His will and
keep His commandments.
	On the 17th of March we had a very
delightful time. Our little church, the
only one that has yet been dedicated to the
Lord in this State, was beautifully and
appropriately decorated for the occasion.
Two tables the length of the house were
loaded with the good things of this life.
All the members of our ward and quite a
number of our non-Mormon friends, one
hundred in all, sat down and enjoyed the
good things that the kind sisters had pre-
pared. The afternoon was spent in listen-
ing to an excellent program that had been
prepared for the occasion. Sister Eva
Perry delivered an address on Relief Society
work which was replete with the noble
work of our sisters from the time of the
organization to the present. The evening
was spent in dancing until 12 p. m., when

[Column 3]
all went home satisfied that the time had
been well spent.
	Hoping the Lord will bless all the sisters 
who are interested in this noble work, and
that we will have the pleasure of seeing
some of the sisters in our State in the near
future, I remain your sister in the cause of
truth.
	Officers: Cornelia Perry, president; 
Martha Whiting and Eva Perry, counsel-
ors; Luella Johnson, secretary.
		LUELLA JOHNSON, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


GAINS OF SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.
	[Report read by Mrs. Hannah Lapish at the
National Woman’s Suffrage Convention and first
International Woman’s Suffrage Conference held
in Washington, D. C. February 12 to 18, 1902.]
	So numerous are the gains of suffrage
that justice could not be done to the sub-
ject in the short time allotted to us. We
will, therefore, without preface, proceed to 
mention some of them as we know them
and can vouch for their truth. Names and
dates could be furnished if time would per-
mit, instead we will subjoin testimonials
from leading citizens who have had oppor-
tunity to test the workings of suffrage, and
know whereof they speak.
	It is true the women of Utah have been
somewhat more favorably circumstanced 
than the women of other states, that while
they were yet a territory the franchise was
given to them, which opened up many
avenues heretofore closed to women, such
as doctors, lawyers, principals of public
schools, University professors and regents, 
members of college and school boards,
Court stenographers, newspaper reporters,
clerks and book-keepers, in all kinds of
business houses and offices. In short, the
bright, brainy business woman was seen
everywhere elbowing her way to the front
never again to be set back.
	Later Congress saw fit to take away the
franchise, still these avenues remained
open, and woman quietly but firmly estab-
lished herself in the business world. A
legitimate gain for suffrage, even without
the franchise.
	Later, when Utah was admitted to State-
hood, the framers of the constitution made
woman suffrage a fundamental law of the
new State. Then were political positions
thrown open to her, so scoring another
gain to the credit of suffrage.
	These positions are not all financially so
profitable to the holders, but they are help-
ful, responsible and profitable to the com-
monwealth. They also enable her the
better to fill her mission as “helpmeet to
man.” Her occupancy of these positions
saves the more valuable time of men, and
thus his gold (a great desideratum) and
having control of her own time, she can
give more careful attention to such duties,
and so discharge them more efficiently with
less cost (another great desideratum.) And
indeed many of these positions woman is
naturally, from her domestic character and
habits, better adapted to fill than man, a
fact the party leaders are not slow to rec-
ognize, so we find women on committees
of all kinds, not only as members, but as
chairmen, making judicious suggestions,
and finding solutions to perplexing ques-
tions, chairmen of voting precincts, mem-
bers and chairmen of primaries, delegates
to conventions, county, state and national,
making nominations and seconding nomi-
nations, acting as secretaries and some-


times vice-chairmen at such conventions.
	In all these positions she is patriotic or
nothing, working only for the right as she
understands it, which is the only reward
she seeks or ever gets.
	In the elective office of city, county or
state, she has had her meed of recognition,
and so we find her holding or having held
the following offices: city treasurer, county
Clerk, Auditor, Recorder, State Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction, Legislators,
State Senators, Registrars and Judges of
Election. These offices carry a compensa-
tion which is fixed by law, and honestly
paid regardless of sex.
	In the city and county offices today men
and women employed are about equal, and
they receive equal pay for equal work,
whether men or women.
	The forgoing are gains to the ambitious
and aspiring, but not by any means the
limit of the gains which suffrage ensures to
the race.
	There is a greater gain, a more inesti-
mable boon to the great unnoticed mass
of womankind. The unobtrusive woman
who thinks much but says little; the care-
ful woman who economizes and denies her-
self to make ends meet that excessive
taxes may be paid, in the use of which she 
has hitherto had no voice; the womanly,
dignified woman, who, satisfied to let well
enough alone, contends not for the places
sacred to men during all time; the mother-
ly woman, whose only care is for righteous
government that her children may be free
from all oppression, free indeed in this
boasted land of freedom. Such women
constitute the majority of the sex who re-
joice in the privilege to cast a free and
equal ballot and ask no more. What
more should they ask? Is not this the
vital spirit of equal rights, the very soul of
suffrage? Aye, and its crowning gain and
glory.
	But, you say, the mass of women will
not avail themselves of this great privilege;
will not vote when they may. Not so, my
friends, not so. Go you as we have gone
to the official election returns, examine well
the records, and statistics will prove to you
that in this woman’s zeal is at least equal 
to that of her brother man. You will find
the percentage of the female vote from 49
to 60 per cent of the whole vote polled,
male and female. And of the number of
women registered 90 per cent cast their
vote.
	Surely these facts prove that woman
suffrage has gained its object, carping pes-
simists to the contrary notwithstanding.
		EMILY S. RICHARDS. Pres’t.
		(MRS.) J. FEWSON SMITH, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
SARAH WOOLLEY SUTTON.
	Sister Sarah Woolley Sutton, daughter of Bish
op Edwin D. and Ellen Woolley, died March 28
1902, at Paris, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, of pneu-
monia.
	Sister Sutton was born December 27, 1847, in
Council Bluffs. She emigrated to Utah in 1848
with her parents. When a child she passed
through the early scenes of pioneer life. In 1887
she was married to John A. Sutton. Her life has
been one of usefulness and she lived a faithful
Latter-day Saint. When she died she was sur-
rounded by her husband, children, brother and
sister and aged mother.
	Sister Sutton was the mother of two children,
one son and one daughter, both of whom, with
her husband survive her.
	The funeral was held in the Paris 1st ward
meeting house The speakers were J. W. Stucki,
William L. Rich and President William Budge.


The casket was covered with flowers and a large
cortege followed the remains to their last resting
place.
	She led a quiet, peaceful life, and she was
loved, honored and respected by all who knew
her.
								COM.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.
SISTER LUCINDA HOUD.
	The subject of this sketch was the child of
Arthur and Sarah Morgan, and was born in
Monroe County, Illinois, November 1, 1820.
	Sister Houd joined the Church at a very early
age, gathered to Nauvoo with the chosen people
and was expelled with them in the troublous times
of 1846. She went to Council Bluffs where she
met Simeon F. Houd and was married to him
March 16, 1847. He was one of the noble band
of pioneers who first entered Salt Lake valley,
July 24, 1847, and she followed him, arriving in
September of that same year. They lived in
Salt Lake for some years, enduring the hardships
and privations of those early days with heroic
fortitude.
	In 1851 they were called by the Church author-
ities to assist in the colonization of Parowan, and
they were among the first settlers in that region.
Again, in 1846, another call was made, in obe-
dience to which Brother Houd and family moved
to Beaver and built one of the first four houses in
that place. In 1878 the husband died, and for the
rest of her life Sister Houd lived a widow.
	Sister Houd was one of the members of the
Relief Society organized in Nauvoo by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and was one of the first to
join that organization in Beaver. The first presi-
dent was Sister Jane Wyman, but she resigned
March 7, 1869, and Sister Harriet Shepherd was
made president. She chose Sister Houd as her
first counselor and she filled that position for a
number of years. Her energetic, faithful labors
were of great value to the society during this
time. Sister Shepherd resigned November, 1871,
and Sister Houd was called to take her place,
which position she worthily filled for a little less
than five years, resigning June 1, 1876.
	It was during this period that her energy and
perseverance and her desire to carry out counsel
were manifest in a characteristic manner. Word
had come from President Brigham Young that the
society must begin to store grain. Wheat was
scarce, but Sister Houd was determined to make
a start in this direction. So she gathered together
a few kindred spirits, eight of them in all, and
taking their lunch with them they went into the
fields to glean. All through the heat and dust of
that weary day they continued their labors until
at nightfall, tired and footsore, but happy, they
returned with their treasure, five grain sacks
closely packed with heads of the precious wheat.
	September 6, 1879, Sister Houd was chosen
president of the Relief Society of Beaver Stake
and continued in this position until through an
accident her hip was injured, and she was laid
upon a bed of pain and sickness. Feeling that
she was incapacitated from performing the duties
of her office, she resigned September 25, 1896,
having acted as Stake president a few days over
seventeen years.
	In a year or two she recovered sufficiently to
walk a little with great difficulty, but her active,
busy life was over and from henceforth in this life
a crown of suffering was hers. From that time
until the day of her death she was an invalid, but
she bore her pain with patience and resignation.
	She died July 26, 1902. The immediate cause
of her death was dropsy. Throughout her whole
life, and especially during her last sickness, her
faith never wavered, and her testimonies were
strong and abundant.
	She was the mother of eleven children, seven of
whom survive her. She was an energetic worker
in the cause of truth, a faithful friend, a sacrific-
ing noble wife and mother; what more can be
said of her?
	Dear Sister Houd, may your body rest in peace
and your bright spirit continue its unselfish labors
until body and spirit shall be reunited in a glor-
ious resurrection to receive an eternal exaltation
in the presence of our Eternal Father.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
remove by death and take to a higher sphere our
beloved and revered colaborer. Sister Lucinda
Houd, therefore be it 
	Resolved, that we strive to emulate her unwaver-
ing faith and her fidelity to truth and purity; her
untiring energy and devotion to her religious
duties and to her home; her sympathy and chari-

[Column 2]
ty for the distressed and needy; her humility and
obedience to proper authority
	That we extend our sympathy and love to her
family and friends, and pray that the comforting
influence of the Holy Spirit may rest upon them;
that they may realize th[-]t she is only gone before
to enjoy the rest and reward of a well spent life.
	That a copy of these resolutions be sent to each
of her children, one be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication and one be placed upon 
our records.
				LOUISA W. JONES,
				MARY E. WHITE,
						Committee.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Mary Orser, of Vernal, Utah, was
recently elected county school superinten-
dent.

	One or two Catholic Bishops in this 
country have expressed themselves in
favor of female suffrage.

	Sydney, N. S. W., August 14.—The
woman’s franchise bill has passed both
houses of the New South Wales Legisla-
ture.

	He who would ascend the ladder must
begin at the lowest round. All who are
above were once below.

	You do not have to persuade sunshine to 
come into your house. Open your shutter
and it streams in. So it is with the
heavenly love. Open your hearts, open
your life, and it will enter.

	Mrs. Mary Ann Mills, a diamond expert,
who died recently, was one of the most
famous women in New York’s commercial
history. She was head of the firm of
Mills and Coleman, which since 1859 has
been one of the best know diamond houses
on this continent.

	The home ought ever to be the scene of
forbearance, love, charity and affinity.
Husband and wife, parents and children,
should be kind, gentle, responsive and
helpful. Thus will be realized the sweet-
est of joys, the noblest of confidences and
the dearest and most enduring of relation-
ships.

	Miss Clara Barton arrived in New York
Wednesday, August 6, from the con-
ference of the International Red Cross
Society at St. Petersburg. Miss Barton re-
ceived many courtesies and honors in Rus-
sia. She was entertained in the royal
palaces and the imperial railway trains
were placed at her disposal. The Czar
personally decorated her with the highest
order with which he can honor any one not 
of royal blood.
						Ex.


AUTUMN BEECHES.

O golden leaves so soon to pass away,
	Just on the point of death more fair ye shine
Than when Spring’s first glad draught of kind-
	ling wine
Woke you to joy and light! Life’s closing day
Beholds you clad in festival array,
	Glorious to greet earth’s dreary, dark confine,
	Where leaves once drest in color brave as thine
Shrink in the naked sadness of decay !

And wherefore not? For, sure, some future Spring
	Shall call you back to take up Life’s refrain !
Your sojourn in the shade is not for long;
Death is the lot of every living thing.
	But life bids every dead thing wake again,
And after sleeping comes the morning song.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


UNIVERSITY OF UTAH.

	The University of Utah includes the
School of Arts and Sciences, the State
School of Mines and the State N[-]rmal
School.
		SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES.

	The School of Arts and Sciences offers
courses in:
	1. General Science.
	2. Liberal Arts.
		STATE NORMAL SCHOOL.

	The Normal School offers:
1.	A four years Normal Course.
2.	Advanced Normal Courses.
3.	Courses in Kindergarten Training.
		STATE SCHOOL OF MINES.

	The School of Mines offers courses in:
1.	Mining Engineering.
2.	Electrical Engineering.
		PREPARATORY SCHOOL.

	A Preparatory School is maintained
which gives preparation for the courses in
general Science, Liberal Arts, Mining and
Electrical Engineering, Law, Medicine and
Business.
	The proximity of great mines, reduction
works of various kinds, power houses for
the generation of electricity, afford advan-
tages for thorough and practical work in
mining and electrical engineering not en-
joyed by any other school of mines in the
United States.
		SHOP WORK IN WOOD AND METAL.

	Students in engineering courses are
given two years course in wood and metals
in well equipped shops and under the
direction of thoroughly competent mach-
inists.

MANUAL TRAINING AND DOMESTIC SCIENCE.

	Manual Training and Domestic Science
are features of the normal courses.
	No tuition is charged, but a small annual
registration fee is required. Registration
of students September 12th and 13th.
	The University Annual which gives full
information concerning courses, require-
ments for admission, etc., will be sent free
on application to the University of Utah,
Salt Lake City, Utah.


THE LEGEND OF THE ROSE.

The white rose blossomed first in Paradise,
	And shed her fragrance on the balmy air,
And Eve smiled on it with her sinless eyes,
	When all the world was pure, and sweet and
		fair.

But when an exile from those heavenly bowers,
	Sad Eve went forth amid earth’s thorny
		ways, 
She bade good bye to all the lovely flowers
	She knew and cherished in her happy days.

Then bending low she kissed the snow-white rose.
	When, lo, its pure, pale petals changed to red,
As though it blushed to hear of sins and woes,
	As Eve knelt weeping by the garden bed!


Her falling tear-drops shone like pearly dew
	Upon its petals as she sobbed farewell,
And deeper still its ruddy color grew,
	As, one by one, the burning tear-drops fell.

And ever since the blood-red roses blow
	In sultry hours, and speak of joys and pain,
And lovers pause to pluck them as they grow,
	While nightingales chant on their soft refrain.

Perchance at times they feel the piercing thorn,
	Which ever guards the roses stem, ’tis said,
Since that long vanished hour in Eden’s morn,
	When sad Eve kissed the white rose petals
		red.
							M. E. S.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
		67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as much as possible for your money. 		TRY US

[Column 2]
American Institute
	of Phrenology,
	Incorporated 1886,

OPENS ITS NEXT SESSION
	SEPT. 3, 1902.

	For particulars apply to the Secretary,
M. H. Piercy, care of Fowler & Wells Co.,
14 East 22nd Street, New York.

DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
Will commence her next class in ob-
stetrics and Nursing on 
Monday, Oct. 13,1902.

	For further information write to Dr. Roberts, 75
North State St. Telephone 748 d.

Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.

		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.

		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.

		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


AN AUGUST DAY.
’Twas long ago—the golden light
	Of fair, unclouded August days
Had bathed the world in radiance bright,
	The garden beds were all ablaze
With asters, purple, red and white.
	That nodded in the sunshine’s rays.

White daises starred the velvet grass,
	With tiny, gleaming, golden eyes,
Tall weeds waved o’er the dark morass,
	Blue harebells shamed the azure skies,
And meadow-sweet—a fragrant mass—
	Set of the loosestrife’s purple dyes.

The sunflow’r raised his golden head.
	The lily pale was fair to see,
And robed in white and deepest red,
	The d[-]hlias blossomed royally;
The bees hummed o’er the flower-bed,
	The fruit was blushing on the tree. 

I met you as the sun sank low
	To rest within the Western sea,
Your lovelv face was all aglow.
	Your lips like cherries on the tree,
Your brow was pure as drifted snow—
	And you were all the world to me !
				MAUD E. SARGENT.


LOVE'S POWER.
If I were blind, and thou shouldst enter
E’er so softly in the room, 
I should know it,
I should feel it,
Something subtle would reveal it, 
And a glory round thee center
That would lighten up the gloom.
And my heart would surely guide me, 
With Love’s second sight provide me, 
One amid the crowd to find,
If I were blind !
If I were deaf, and thou hadst spoken
Ere thy presence I had known,
I should know it,
I should feel it,
Something subtle would reveal it.
And the seal at once be broken 
By love’s liquid undertone, 
Deaf to other, stranger voices,
And the world’s discordant noises,—
Whisper, wheresoe’er thou art,
'Twill reach my heart!
If I were dead and thou shouldst venture,
Near the coffin where I lay,
I should know it, 
I should feel it,
Something subtle would reveal it,
And no look of mildest censure
Rest upon that face of clay.
Shouldst thou kiss me, conscious flashes,
Of Love’s fire through Death’s cold ashes
Would give back the cheek its red,
if I were dead!
				JOSEPHINE POLLARD.


Compared to the possession of that price,
less treasure and happiness unspeakable,
a perfect faith, what has life to offer ?


The United States Civil Service Com-
mission will hold examinations during
September and October, in several places in
each state to secure young men and women
for the government service. There are
now 126,423 in the classified civil service,
being an increase of 46,736 in six years.
There were 7,972 persons appointed be-
tween July 1, 1901 and April 15, 1902, be-
ing at the rate of 10,070 for the year.
There will probably be 11,000 appoint-
ments next year. Salaries at appointment
vary from $660 to $1,200 a year, with
liberal promotions afterward. All ap-
pointments are for life and for most posi-
tions only a common school education is
required. Politics or religion is not con-
sidered. Those desiring to take examina-
tions of this kind can get full information
about them by writing to the Columbia
Correspondence College, Washington, D.
C., and asking for its Civil Service Cata-
logue for 1902.


Mary [-] White

Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol 31	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1 & 15, 1902	Nos. 7-8


CONTENTS.
Fred Caine’s Letter to His Mother..................25
Utah Woman’s Press Club....Lydia D. Alder 25
In Favor of Coeducation...........................27
Items From Pleasant Grove.....Rose B. Hayes 27
Wayne Stake..................Anna Coleman 27
R. S. Reports.....................................29
Resolutions of Respect............................31
In Loving Remembrance..........Martha Hart 31
An Interesting Trip........Ann C. Woodbury 31
EDITORIAL—Calamities and Evils...............28
Mrs. Gates’ Return............................28
Editorial Notes................................28
POETRY—Bathsheba W Smith. Ellis R. Shipp 25
September................Belle M. Weeks 25
Where Are They Now........Ruth M. Fox 27


BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
Now eighty years, yes long, eventful years.
Have quickly passed and gone since thou didst
	come,
From Father’s mansion, here to find a home;
Here in this vale of mortal hopes and fears.

Destined e’en to clasp a Prophet’s hand—
To hear his voice proclaim the Gospel’s truth—
To feel and know its glories in thy youth—
and yield obedience to its command.

Oh, blest of women—queen in Zion thou !
Endowed with inspiration’s holy light,
To e’en discern the pure—to know the right,
A diadem of wisdom decks thy brow.

Most priceless jewels thou hast nobly earned,
They’re not the treasures delved from mortal soil—
They’re not the gems that mortal taint despoil—
But guerdon by the King of Life returned !

Live long, dear one, to bless thy sisterhood,
With smile benign, with words and deeds of love;
With power of inspiration from above—
Assisting other souls to lives, as pure and good.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


SEPTEMBER.
BELLE M. WEEKS.
On leaf and flower the sunlight lay
At the close of a mild, delightful day,—
Afar the gold of the sunset glowed,—
In softened beauty the landscape showed,—
Above the azure.—below the green,—
And a mystic glory of light between.

Forth through this beautiul land of ours,
Went Summer, crowned with magnolia
	flowers,—
Shod with the silver of running brooks.
Fast sped her feet through the woodland
	nooks,—
While trailing behind the Southern Queen
Was her velvet mantle of sylvan green.

A voice was heard through the echoing wood;
In the path before her, King Autumn stood,
The light that shone from the golden west
Illumed the leaves of his knightly crest,
Till its sprays of maple and birch became
A mingled yellow and crimson flame.

No word was spoken on either side;
He stretched his hands to his gypsy bride,
And the Northern King and the Southern
	Queen
Have met once more in the forest green.
Where without a tremor of doubt or fear,
They keep their love-tryst every year.

And there they meet ’neath the sapphire sky,—
A joyous welcome,—a long good-bye,—
And Nature rewards their changeless love
With a gem from the deep blue sky above, 
That sapphire stone of constancy
September’s emblem shall ever be.
				Author's Magazine.


[Column 1]
FRED CAINE'S LETTER TO HIS MOTHER
			[A few extracts.]
	On Thursday, August 7, we all went out
to President Grant’s to spend the day.
We had quite a nice time. It was our last
visit with Brother Kelsch. Although I
did not know him before I came here, I
have found him to be a very fine man and
I have learned to like him very much Al-
though he did not learn to speak the Jap-
anese language, still he has done a great
work here among the foreigners, and I
think his experience must have been a
great aid in opening up the mission. This
year completes his eleventh year of mission-
ary work in the field, and he has certainly
earned his release.
	We always have a good time at Presi-
dent Grant’s, and this was no exception.
	Saturday we went to Yokohoma to say
goodbye to Brother Kelsch. The train
left here at 9:25 a. m., and arrived there at
10:20 a. m. We took rikishas and went
directly to the pier aud took a san pan
(this is a small boat which is propelled by
a paddle at the back, which works like a
fish’s tail) out to the tug which took us to
the S S. “Gaelic,” the ship he went on.
We had to do this because there is only
one company that has a wharf, and that is
“Nippon Yusen Kaiska,” the company
that brought us over.
	We remained on board about half an
hour, then the tug went back to shore.
We went to the end of the pier and waited
till the “Gaelic” started. After the ship
was gone, we went up town and had lunch.
it was Coronation day, the foreigners in
Yokohama were celebrating it, so we de-
cided to take in the sights. We went up
on the bluff and got some flags. I carried
an American, a Japanese and a British flag.
Enclosed you will find the British and
Japanese flags, but I will keep the Ameri-
can flag because they are scarce here.
	Then we went down to the Bund, a
street which runs right along the bay.
Some of the finest hotels are on this street.
It was decorated with all kinds of flags.
Each house floated the flag of its own
nationality with the Japanese and British
flags. The Grand hotel especially was very
finely decorated. Along the whole length
of the building flags were floating out of the
windows. In the middle was the British
flag, and running out on each side of this
were the flags of all the principal nations,
and on each end was an American flag.
	Among all that array of mostly monarch-
ies, and in some cases tyrannies, the flag
that stands for freedom was written in
every stripe and fold, which could not be
said of the others. I know you can guess
how good it made me feel to see it,
although it was on a British holiday, still
the stars and stripes were just as prominent
as the English flag. All of the ships in the
harbor were also decorated with flags and
the whole was a very glad scene.
	There was a small boat on the bay from
which “day fireworks” were sent off, the
most novel of which, I think, were bombs
which were sent up and exploded in the

[Column 2]
air. Inside of each bomb were some
British, alternating with Japanese flags,
attached to a string. At the other end of
the string was a parachute which held them
up in the air, while the wind, which was
very strong that day, carried them for some
distance Small balloons were also sent up,
and representations of “John Bull,” the
English, and the king riding on a horse,
etc.
	At 5:15 p m. we took the train and came
back to Tokyo
	Sunday we went as usual to President
Grant’s. It seemed quite lonesome with-
out Brother Kelsch. Although only one
had gone, we had to keep counting to as-
sure ourselves that more were not. Since
then have done nothing to speak of. We
have staid at the hotel most of the time
studying. We are living on Japanese food
entirely now: the only time we have bread
is when we are invited to President Grant’s.
I have eaten everything so far, and I never
felt better in my life.


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.

FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.

	At the November meeting Mrs. Ruth M.
Fox was elected director to the State Feder-
ation.
	On December 9 Mrs. I. Cameron Brown
entertained the club at her beautiful home.
A banquet had been prepared.  The toasts
and responses were on Utah’s gifted poetess,
Sarah E. Carmichael. Mrs. L. D. Alder
read a paper giving a life sketch and quoting
some of her less known poems, among them
being “Down by the River,” which was the
last one. written by her before the lamp of
reason flickered out and that beautiful mind
toppled on its throne. It was found pinned
over the dead heart of her husband, who
faithfully shielded and protected her for
twenty years in her own home, before the
fires of life burned to ashes on its altar and
he could guard her no longer. By request of
the hostess Mrs. Alder also read “The Stolen
Sunbeam,” her best known and oft-quoted,
wonderful poem. All felt to thank Mrs.
Brown for her generous hospitality, and for
the associations and thoughts of the occa-
sion.
	At the December meeting Miss Nina
Winslow Eckert, a writer of some note
was admitted to the club. The meet-
ing was held at the home of Dr. E. R.
Shipp. The program, a Christmas one,
was duly carried out, and the refreshments
of happy yuletide were served by our
honored hostess and her charming daugh-
ters.
	The February meeting was partly de-
voted to wishing our honorary president. 
Mrs. E. B. Wells, many happy returns of
her natal day, and desiring all good gifts
to flow unto her in the many years yet to
come, while she shall remain with us. Mrs.
Ida Cannon was received as a member.
	At the March meeting Mrs. L. D. Alder
was elected a delegate to the Mother’s
Congress. Mrs. M. A. Caine was re[-]lected


[Column 1]
to the Council of Women. The program
was dispensed with for an evening with
the “Cliff Dwellers.”
	At the April meeting a letter was read
from the U. F. W. C. asking our club to
take the initiative step in calling together
the representatives of Salt Lake clubs to
pursue some line of educational work
which would benefit the schools of our city.
A motion that a special meeting be called
was carried. A pleasant hour was spent
in partaking of delicious refreshments and
enjoying friendly conversation.
	Pursuant to a call from the Press Club a
special meeting was held to consider the
subject of improved educational facilities
and the needs of our city schools. Mrs.
L. D. Alder was elected chairman and Mrs.
Schiller secretary. Delegates from nearly
all of the city schools were present. Nearly
all were anxious that the kindergarten be
introduced into the schools. Other items
were discussed at some length, among
t[-]em sanitation and the introduction of
temperance literature. Members from
each club agreed to visit the several schools
and report at the fall meeting. 
At the June meeting the life and works
of Rudyard Kipling was the topic.
	At the August meeting after the busi-
ness had been disposed of the remainder of
the evening was pleasantly spent in listen-
ing to the account from our honorary
president, E. B. Wells, of her trip across
the ocean, and the gathering of the great
Quinquennial Congress which convened in
London, June 1899 Members of the Press
Club at this gathering of women were Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. Susa Y. Gates, Mrs
Margaret A. Caine and Mrs Lydia D.
Alder. Besides these there were present
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas and daughter,
Kate, Miss Jean Clara Holbrook, Miss
Josephine Booth, Miss Liza Chipmah,
Mrs. Jesse Knight and Miss Lulu Gates.
Nearly all were members of the Congress
	The opening meeting at Convocation Hall
was a most interesting sight, grand and
impressive. The Countess of Aberdeen
presided and there were representatives
from nearly all over the world.
	Those from China in their peculiar
fashioned but rich and costly dress and
jewels were conspicuous Those from
Japan were equally so. They wore dresses
of canary colored silk, underskirts not very
voluminous, but the upper dress was quite
full at the neck with long hanging full
sleeves. All around them, as also
the shirt and upper dress, was a rich
gimp, a little more than an inch wide.
They had a baby with them, the only
baby of the Congress, dressed in miniature
like themselves, and of which they seemed
very proud, lifting it up high in their arms
when we were in the presence of Queen
Victoria at the Tea given by her in honor
of the foreign ladies, at Windsor Castle’
July 7, 1899. No English ladies were
invited. There were, however, the
Countess of Aberdeen and one or two
others who were her subjects. They bowed
low and kissed her hand. As she came
down the Quadrangle “God Save the
Queen” was sung by her guests, thrilling
our hearts as we bared our heads in re-
sponse to her recognition.
	A soft heavenly light irradiated her
features which were stamped with nobility,
yet love. Her manner was dignified as
became the Queen of England and Empress
of India.

[Column 2]
	How many dialects we heard while
waiting for the great iron gates to permit
us entrance ! This more than grand event
will never be forgotten by any of those
who participated in it, while memory en-
dures.
	Her Majesty bowed to first one group,
then another, and gracefully her subjects
bent the knee and kissed her hand. As
the hymn wafted out on the warm summer
air, tears involuntarily sprang to our eyes
the hour, the scene, surroundings, the dear
sweet face of the widowed Mother Queen,
its weakness, the halo of light adding to
its tenderness stirred many and varying
emotions in the hearts of those so highly
honored. In contrast was the youthful
strong look on the face of the Princess
Beatrice of Battenburg, her companion and
youngest daughter. Written on the patient
face of the Queen was, “Life’s battle is
nearly over.” A strange emotion holds
us in thraldom. Just as we had imagined
her, the same blue eyes of which we had
read and the same gracious bearing.
	Then followed the Tea in St. George’s
Hall, the tables arranged with rare china
and cut glass, interspersed with glistening
silver, were a sight to behold. The pyra-
mids of strawberries arrested the eye with
the tempting dainties which go to make up
an English Tea.
	Amid happy laughter and joyous ex-
clamations the Tea was partaken of.
Again looking over the scene to impress
it more deeply on memory’s tablet, we re-
luctantly follow the Queen’s private secre-
tary, Sir Arthur Biggs, in a tour of the
castle. Contrary to the usual custom all
the chintz coverings had been removed
from the furniture in the hall, and as the
long rays of sunshine fell on the crimson
velvet upholstering and reflected on the
silver service, the snowy napery of the long
table, artistically arranged, the busy ser-
vants dispensing tea from the steaming
si[-]e urns, with the ripe red strawberry
pyramids placed at intervals as if to relieve
their quieter surroundings, made a picture
that an artist might depict. The half has
not been told of the wonders of the famous
Windsor Castle, favorite home of her
Majesty. From its battlements can be
seen the queer old home of the Penns, who
founded Pennsylvania, and the country
churchyard where the poet Gray wrote his
immortal “Elegy in a Country Church-
yard.” This visit to Windsor was the
crowning event of the Congress and dis-
played the interest the Queen took in all
that pertains to the advancement and up-
lifting of the world of women.
	At the September meeting of the club
Mrs. R M, Fox was appointed as delegate
to the Mothers’ Congress. Mrs. Fox read a
paper on the outcome of the Peace Confer-
ence that had been held at the Hague.
	The annual meeting was held at the
home of Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, which was
thrown open to members and guests of the
club. Mesdames Ada Cannon, Bessie
Louise Shirley and Grace Anderson were
admitted as members. Mrs. H. V. Kim-
ball gave a paper on the resume of the
year’s work accomplished by the club.
Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a talk on her visit to
Marie Corellie’s home in London. Mrs.
Aimie Schiller was elected president.
	The December meeting was held at the
residence of Mrs Emma Jenson, which
was tastefully decorated for the occasion.
A handsome picture was presented to the
[Column 3]
retiring president. The evening was
socially spent. A very fine collection of
curios were much admired and dainty re-
freshments were served amid the rendition
of choice musical selections.
	The January meeting, 1900, was held at
the home of the president, Mrs. Schiller.
Mrs. Meecham was received as a member.
The names of representatives at the General
Federation was discussed and argued upon.
Mrs. E. B Wells moved that a committee
be appointed from the charter members of
the club to draft a memorial for Mrs. Julia
I[-]ins McDonald, one of the charter mem-
bers of the club, lately deceased. Ruth
M. Fox, Romania B Pratt and Lucy A.
Clark were selected. After a brief prog[-]am
the evening was delightfully spent in con-
versation The president regaled the ladies
with delicious refreshments.
	The memorial was reported by the com-
mittee and read to the president and others
and the motion to insert it in the club’s
history carried. This was the first one of
the club members to die and was sorely
felt by all. She was a lovely woman of
rare intellect and sweet domestic nature,
sublime in her thoughts whether spoken or
written.
	Motherless little ones, too, were left to the
mercies of the world. All keenly felt this
severing of a link in our association.
	The February meeting was given over
for an interesting talk by Mrs. E. B.
Wells on her late trip abroad
	At the March meeting Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, B. W. Smith and Elmina S.
Taylor were received as honorary members,
also Phebe C. Young.
	At the May meeting Mrs. Jenson was
appointed delegate and Mrs. Rhodes alter-
nate to the Domestic Science School.
	At the August meeting Miss Helen
Margaret Ring was the guest of the even-
ing. She is a newspaper woman of Den-
ver. She commended the paper read by
Mrs. Rhodes and related some interesting 
experiences of her travels in Mexico.
	The annual meeting was held by invita-
tion at the home of Mrs. Schiller, the
president. As a result of the election of
officers Mrs. C. G. R. Wells became presi-
dent. Club members represented authors
and read their correspondence with other
authors Choice refreshments were served
by the hostess and musical selections were
rendered.
	At the June meeting arrangements were
made for the visit of Mrs. Sewall.
	At the September meeting a paper on
the martyred president, William McKinley,
was read by Mrs. McVicker. Mrs E. B.
Wells called attention to the traveling
library case, reminding the members to
bring the books promised Miss Estelle
Neff was received as a member. Mrs. L.
D. Alder, who had been absent in Europe
for the past two years, gave a short talk on
some of the incidents that had transpired,
and by request of members described some
of the street meetings she had attended. A
descriptive poem by R. M. Fox was read
by the author. A report from the Educa-
tional Committee was called for and prom-
ised in the near future. Mrs. Rebecca H.
Doolan was elected as delegate to the
Federation to be held in Provo in October.
Moved, seconded and carried that the dele-
gate work for Mrs. McVicker for delegate
to the General Federation to be held in
Los Angeles in May. 
(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WHERE ARE THEY NOW?
	[Suggested by the death of Brother Oliver G.
Workman, a member of the Mormon Battalion.]

Where are they now, the gallant five hundred,
	The Mormon Battalion so dauntless and true,
The flow’r of their people, the support of the aged,
	Who wandered as exiles from lovely Nauvoo?

Where are they now? their foes were unnumbered,
	Their friends were but few, earth’s treasures all
		gone;
Their wives faint and weary, the children—God
		help them—
	Innocent victims of injustice and wrong.

Where, are they now, the banished five hundred?
	By their country forsaken, though their cause
		was most just.
They halt in their journey, the trumpet is sound-
		ing,
A call from that country—Oh God, can they
		trust?

To arms, men! to arms! despised five hundred!
	Make haste, ye deluded, we brook no delay;
O’er parched, sandy prairies and unknown moun-
		tain passes,
	You must cut your way through to far Santa Fe.

Where are they now, the noble five hundred?
	The flag proudly waves on once alien soil,
But the men one by one, have laid down their
		muskets.
	And rolled off their knapsacks, to rest from their
		toil.

Where are they now, immortal five hundred?
	Their glory’s unbounded and ever shall shine;
Though the flag they defended be torn from its
		bulwarks,
	Their unparallelled story shall live through all
		time.
						RUTH M. FOX.


IN FAVOR OF CO-EDUCATION.

	The American, of Chicago, sends the fol-
owing questions to leading educators:
	“First—Does coeducation lower aca-
demic standards?
	“Second—Is coeducation justified by ex-
perience?
	“Third—Does coeducation discourage
the attendance of young men at coeduca-
tional institutions?”
	Among the replies published is this from
Asariah S. Root, acting Dean of Oberlin
College:
	“Oberlin College has had nearly seventy
years’ experience in coeducation, having
been the first college to adopt that method
of education.
	“1. It has not been our experience that
coeducation lowers academic standards,
but rather that it improves them.
	“2 Our experience warrants the state-
ment that coeducation carried on with
such safeguards as are employed here is
entirely justified by experience.
	“3. Coeducation does not seem to have
effected the attendance of young men at
this institution In our college department
for some years back the percentage of
young men has been slowly increasing.”
	W. C. Spangler, Acting Chancellor of
State University of Kansas, writes:
	“1. The University of Kansas is clos-
ing thirty-six years of education. Our
standard has never taken cognizance of any
difference between men and women. Co-
education has not affected the standard of
work.
	“2. Coeducation at the University of
Kansas has entirely justified itself. No one
here would think of changing the present
status. We regard association of sexes in
education as much a matter of course as in
the home, church, business and society.
Men and women improve by association in
education as in alt things.
	“3. We believe there is no disposition


on the part of the men here to object to the
presence of their sisters in any department.
Have not heard of men going elsewhere
because of the presence of women. The
people of Kansas believe heartily in coedu-
cation.”—Ex.


[Column 1]
ITEMS FROM PLEASANT GROVE.
	Our Relief Society was organized about
forty-six years ago. Meetings were then
held at the homes of the members and no
particular records were kept. The princi-
pal feature of the work was to help arriving
emigrants every year. During the time of
the move or exodus from Salt Lake Co.,
the excitement caused a disruption in gen-
eral and the meetings were not held very
regularly after.
	On April 12, 1868, a reorganization took
place, and since that date a complete rec-
ord of every meeting and every donation
has been kept. It is a very interesting
book to read, containing many suggestions
and counsels from Presidents Brigham
Young and Wilford Woodruff, Sisters Eliza
R Snow and Elizabeth Howard, and many
others whose voices have long been silent
in the tomb; but their loving words and
noble deeds will live forever in our mem-
ories.
	Much credit is due those faithful workers
of early days; the amount of good accom-
plished by them cannot be estimated. Their
donations sound a little odd to us today, as
they consisted of wool, yarn, flour, dried
fruit, molasses, vegetables, store orders,
etc.
	Many who were members forty-five
years ago are still enrolled, although not
active workers. They often meet with us,
and give us their blessing and the benefit
of their experience, which are greatly ap-
preciated.
	We have 180 members enrolled and 46
teachers. We hold meetings semi-monthly
and have organized a choir. Our average
attendance is 40.
	We have a granary and 153 bushels of
wheat, also $250.00 in the bank as a build-
ing fund, and we hope to have a house of
our own in the near future, in which we
can meet for work and worship.
	On the first Sunday evening of each
month, while the brethren meet in priest-
hood meeting, the mothers and daughters
hold a meeting also. It was requested by
our Stake president. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primary officers take
turns in presiding, and all the mothers and
daughters are invited. Lectures on sub-
jects beneficial to our sex are given and
testimonies by both old and young prove
that all are interested and benefited.
	We held anniversary exercises on the
17th of March. On the stand were the
Bishopric of the ward, the officers of the
Relief Society, Sister Elizabeth Walker, a
representative of the society at Nauvoo,
who was also the first president of this
ward, Elizabeth Brown, our second presi-
dent, having held that position for twenty-
four years, and other veterans in the Relief
Society work, President Sarah Foutz pre-
siding.
	After singing and prayer, a program of
addresses, readings, sketches and music was
given, which was very interesting.
	Sister Elizabeth Walker spoke of the
society at Nauvoo: told how they loved the
Prophet, but he could not often meet with
them on account of being harassed with
mobs. It seemed to her that to see Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith and hear him speak would convince
any one that he was a prophet of God.
Sister Emma Smith was a wise and noble
president, and an excellent speaker.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown, bore her testi-
mony, showing that her love for the Gos-
pel continually increased.
	Bishop J. E. Thorne also addressed the
meeting.
	President Foutz was pleased to see so
many present, and thanked all for the in-
terest taken in the exercises.
	The choir sang. Benediction was pro-
nounced by Christian Nielson.
	A party was given in the evening,
which was a grand success, both in a social
and financial way. Verbal invitations had
been given to every family in the ward,
Refreshments were sold and our treasury 
was increased $51.00.
	The EXPONENT is a valuable aid to us in
our work, we wish it every success.
			SARAH FOUTZ, Pres’t.,
			ROSE B. HAYES Sec’y.


WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake, held at Loa, July 2, 1902, President
Jane S. Coleman presiding. Visiting sis-
ters, E. J. Stevenson and M. A. Caine.
	President Coleman in her opening re-
marks expressed her pleasure in having
missionary sisters, the Stake presidency
and many sisters from the wards. Re-
ported union, promptness and good feeling
in the Stake.
	Presidents reports. Harriet Staples, Loa;
Louisa J. Taylor, Fremont; Orilla Chapel,
Lyman; Sarah G. Meeks, Thurber. All
gave favorable reports. Counselor Sarah
S. Forsyth spoke upon living exemplary
lives.
	Sister Stevenson spoke on many elevat-
ing subjects pertaining to the home and the
Relief Society, and urged the sisters to
help along the work of the Lord.
	Sister Caine spoke upon obedience to the
priesthood, duties and responsibilities of
mothers, on exercising patience with chil-
dren and gaining their confidence, etc.
	At the close of the morning session an
officers’ meeting was held where questions
were asked, and answered by the visiting
sisters and good instructions given.
	Afternoon session. Sister Mary E.
Hanks spoke on the duties of mothers and
the training of children.
	Sister Caine addressed the conference and
made a specialty of the silk industry; also
spoke upon motherhood and prayer.
	Sister Stevenson spoke well upon the
grand mission of motherhood, the watch
care over children and cultivating faith; al-
so of economy, cleanliness, the Word of
Wisdom and urged the sisters to belong to
the Relief Society.
	President Willis E. Robison, Patriarch
E. H. Blackburn, Counselors H. M. Han-
son and G. S. Bastian each endorsed the
teachings of the visiting sisters, and ap- 
preciated their visit and teaching. Presi-
dent Coleman was grateful for the excellent
spirit that had been enjoyed.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Benediction by Elder Lazenby.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


Miss Mary Wightman, of Salt Lake
City, has been appointed map draftsman, at
a salary of $1,200, in the Surveyor-General’s 
office of Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1 & 15, 1902


[Column 1]
	CALAMITIES AND EVILS.

	There never was a time in the history of
the past, to which one is apt to turn, when
more astounding calamities and startling
events transpired than during the last two
or three years. It is very well to say that
telegraphic communication brings news so
quickly, and we know what transpires
aeross the ocean almost momentarily, yet
deceive one’s self as one may, there is no
disguising the fact that crime is on the in-
crease, and that events of an almost over-
whelming character and consequence are of
daily occurrence. One dreads almost to
take up a daily paper, not knowing what it
may contain concerning death and disaster.
Surely the great and terrible day of the
Lord is hastening on, and is near at hand,
and who will be able to abide when His
judgments are poured forth?
	Even though this be so, yet the pleasure
loving and pleasure seeking are still more
eager in their mad pursuit after the idle
phantom than ever before. New methods
of enjoyment, games and recreation are in-
vented,and excursions of all sorts and to all
sorts of places are planned and carried for-
ward to kill time and make a display.
Happy-go hazard are the multitude, though
there are many hundreds of noble excep-
tions among the peoples of the world.
	This spirit of recklessness and dissipation
is so strongly diffusive and so banefnl in its
influence, that it should be feared as a de-
structive power in society. It has become
quite a common saying, “What’s the use of
living if one can’t have a good time?” This
generally means, as the careless speak,
“Lots of fun regardless of consideration for
the sober realities of life,” and often tends
to serious, if not fatal consequences to the
young and daring.
	Evil influences are more dangerous often
than contagious diseases and more difficult
to guard against, there are no visible
warning signs, but more frequently fasci-
nating allurements that dazzle and bewilder
the young and unwary, even if there are
not persons who spread nets for the un-
sophisticated. There are always sufficient
temptations in the pathway of life to be
avoided, and the best method is to be
prayerful and diligent in the performance
of duties, obedient to parents and to those
who preside in any capacity In the school,
the Sunday School or elsewhere; and to the
Latter-day Saints obedience to the priest-
hood is the safeguard.
	There can be no doubt in the minds of
the Latter-day Saints that these are the

[Column 2]
last days; that this is the fulness of times
when all kinds of evil influences will strive
to gain power, and especially over those
“Who are on the Lord’s side,” and one can-
not be too careful of the company one as-
sociates with, for these insidious evils that
are abroad in the world come in all sorts of
deceptive disguises. It is not easy to
judge by appearances; the scriptures tell
us “that in the last days perilous times shall
come” and that such times have come is
apparent to those who have understand-
ing of the truths of the Gospel. There
are perils by sea and land, and dangers lie
all around, but the most terrible of all is
the danger of losing the faith; there are
and will be false prophets and teachers,
and as the Apostle Peter said, “While they
promise liberty they themselves are the
servants of corruption.” The scripture al-
so says, “Beware of wolves in sheep’s
clothing.”
	There is so much opportunity given to
young people for spiritual development
among the Latter-day Saints, that it would
seem comparatively easy to keep in the
channel of truth and the path of righteous-
ness, and yet there are many temptations
to those inclined to be wayward, and there-
fore a constant warfare must be waged
against sin and evil. Parents, teachers and
guardians of the youth of Zion, and in fact
all who stand for the public good and the
welfare of the community, cannot be too
diligent in watching, praying and working
in season and out of season, and setting an
example worthy of imitation that the chil-
dren of the Saints may be kept in the path
of duty and follow after righteousness, that
they may take up the work, as those who
have laid the foundation pass away, for it
is upon them, our children, that the burden
and responsibility of the great Latter-day
work must inevitably fall They must not
fail and according to the Book of Doctrine
and Covenants, the word of the Lord to
Joseph the Prophet in this dispensation, if
parents have not fulfilled their duty in
teaching and training, they will be held re-
sponsible; and how terrible the consequence
will be!
	The work in which the Latter-day Saints
are engaged is increasing so rapidly, the
number of people is so much greater, not
only in our own land but in foreign coun-
tries, that one stands appalled almost at the
magnitude of the work to be done, and in-
deed the fields are white for the harvest and
the laborers should be many; but there is
no reason to despair for those who are dili-
gent; but there is room for more help and need
of admonishing the indifferent and arousing
them to the great need of saving the souls
of their own children and protecting them
from the evils in the midst of Zion.


[Column 1]
MRS. GATES RETURN.
	Mrs Susa Y. Gates who went to Copen-
hagen to attend the Executive meeting of
the International Council, returned home
the last of August. She had a most inter-
esting trip while abroad. In Copenhagen
she was the honored guest at many gather-
ings. She addressed the Anglo Danish
Club in that city, the largest and most
fashionable woman’s club, and on other
occasions had rare opportunities of speak
ing in public to appreciative audiences. She
visited the branches of the Relief Society
there, and the new Latter-day Saints’
meeting house that was recently dedicated.
	As the representative of Mrs. Sewall, the

[Column 2]
president of the International Council she
was entitled to courtesies from the most
distinguished ladies of that august body of
women assembled to transact Council busi-
ness. Mrs. Gates read the address of the
pre-ident, (Mrs. Sewall) which occupied
one entire day.
	After leaving Copenhagen she was the
guest of Mme. Chapponiere at her summer
residence on Lake Geneva, where she en-
joyed the most generous hospitality, and
was among the most charming scenery of
that delightful and picturesque country.
While there Mrs. Gates, accompanied by
Elder Leigh Young, her cousin, visited the
Castle of Chillon and spent a day among its
ruins and surroundings. She was also
present at the Coronation of King Edward,
and soon after that wonderful event sailed
for home. Mrs F. M. Lyman was her com
panion in crossing the Atlantic on her
homeward voyage.
	En route westward Mrs. Gates visited
Mrs Sewall at her home in Indianapolis
and made a report of her work at the Coun-
cil sessions.
	After arriving at her home in Provo, she
addressed the congregation on the Sabbath
day in the Tabernacle there. Sunday eve-
ning, September 6, she spoke in the
Eighteenth Ward chapel to a crowded
house.
	Thursday afternoon, September 12, at 4
p. m., Mrs. Gates made a report of the trip
in the parlor of the Bee Hive House to the
General Board of the Relief Society and
the Young Ladies Association. The First
Presidency of the Church were present and
listened with the greatest interest.
	Mrs. Lucy B. Young (Mrs Gates’ mother)
her daughter and husband, Prof. John
Widstoe, were present and a few other
special friends. Miss Emma Lucy Gates
sang at the opening of the exercises and
President A. H. Lund offered prayer. The
report occupied more than an hour. Brief
remarks were afterwards made by General
President of the Relief Society, Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith, and Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, President of the Relief Society of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion. The General
President of the Y. L. N. M. I. A., Mrs
Elmina S. Taylor, was present and was in-
vited to speak, but, as she was not feeling
well, excused herself. President John R.
Winder made a few remarks and was fol-
lowed by President Joseph F. Smith, who
spoke eloquently on the woman subject
and what had been accomplished, which
made a deep impression upon all present.
	The hymn, “Come, come ye Saints,”
was rendered, Miss Gates at the piano and
with her melodious voice joining in the
singing. The benediction was pronounced
by Mrs. Maria Young Dougall, first couns-
elor in the Young Ladies Association.
	The members of the General Board ex-
pressed themselves deeply gratified with
the report made by Mrs. Gates of her trip
abroad in the interest of the International
Council, which means the furtherance of
woman’s advancement in all the world.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs. Amelia F. Young, who returned
recently from the Eastern States, had a
very enjoyable time, not only in Washing-
ton, where she attended the National
Woman’s Suffrage Association, and met
the women from many countries, as well as
those great leaders in our own land, Miss


Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Catt, and Miss Goldenstien of Australia, with
others, and attended the receptions given in
honor of that great organization; she was
everywhere warmly welcomed. Mrs Young
also attended the National Council of
Women of the United States, and was pres-
ent at the receptions given for them. She
visited the Hall of the Ancients, and had a
most interesting conversation on Mormon-
ism with the gentleman in charge. After
leaving Washington she visited in Balti-
more for some time and also in New York
and Chicago, at each of these places she
had a most enjoyable time. Leaving Chica-
go she went to Minneapolis and Decorah,
where she visited with relatives and at-
tended weddings and college celebrations.
There is no doubt that she removed much
prejudice, although she did not perhaps do
any public speaking. Such visits among
the people will be sure to sew good seed
that may hereafter spring up and bear
fruit, or be as bread cast upon the waters.
	The coronation of King Edward and of
Queen Alexandria, is an event in the his-
tory of the world that cannot be passed
over without recognition, even in our little
paper. The ceremony was not as great a
pageant as it gave promise of being at first,
on account of its postponement, but con-
trary to the superstitions of some of the
“wise men” who profess to read the future,
it actually took place August 9, A. D.
1902 Many glowing descriptions of the
pomp and magnificence of the affair have
been given in the journals of the day all
over the world, and our readers are familiar
with the subject, we are well aware, but at
some future time we hope to have an article
giving a few of the details by an eye-
witness, that will be appropriate for record
in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT. The women
of Zion loved and honored Queen Victoria.
Her son, who succeeds her as monarch
of the realm over which she so ably reigned
for many long years, and his estimable wife,
the queenly woman who is now crowned,
are necessarily both of interest to the world
at large, because of the undisputed position
they occupy in the British Empire.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	So many reports from the several Stakes
of Zion have accumulated, and we are so
anxious to do justice to all, that in this one
instance we decided to condense them and
clear “the docket” for the time. It is ut-
terly impossible, unless we had a weekly
paper, to publish minutes of conferences
from each of the fifty Stakes, besides mis-
sions. However the editor wishes the
minutes of the conferences sent here to the
headquarters, so as to keep in touch with
the work in its entirety, and rest assured
there is a desire to be informed through
this and other correspondence of the growth
and spirit of this great and grand organiza-
tion.
SOUTH SANPETE.
	Conference held March 7, 1902, at Manti,
President Alvira L. Cox presiding. After
the usual opening exercises and reading of
minutes, the president addressed the meet-
ing, congratulating the sisters and express-
ing regret that none of the General Board
were present. Satisfactory reports from
the several branches in the Stake were
given, and brief remarks were made by

[Column 2]
Counselors Jane Bench and Abbie Shoe-
maker.
	Sisters Bridget Shand and Rebecca
Wareham also spoke a short time, the
former upon charity, and the latter bore a
strong testimony of the Prophet Joseph and
the days of Nauvoo, relating many inter-
esting reminiscences.
	Afternoon exercises commenced with
singing and prayer. The officers of the
General Relief Society and of that Stake
were presented and sustained by unani-
mous vote. The speakers of the afternoon
were President Cox, Sister Larsen, of Cas-
tle Dale, Sisters Sarah J. Lowry, Maria
Wiebye and Elizabeth Higgs; subjects were
faith and testimony bearing, healing of the
sick, redemption of the dead, observance of
Sabbath and Fast day, donating to the
Woman’s Building, etc
	President John B. Maiben addressed the
conference. Refered to the inspiration that
prompted the Prophet to organize the Re-
lief Society, the great events now transpir-
ing and the recognition by the world of
many truths taught by this people, also
spoke eloquently of the mission of Christ.
	Sisters Shoemaker, Bench and Wareham
each spoke a few words touching upon the
Word of Wisdom, the evils of slander,
storing of grain and other matters of great
moment.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
Prayer by President Wareham.
			ETTA ANDERSON, Sec.
MARICOPA.
	The Relief Society of the Maricopa
Stake, held March 20, 1902, at Mesa, Ari-
zona, President Mabel A. Hakes presiding.
All the wards were reported as doing well,
except Papago Ward, where the president
had moved away.
	President Hakes stated that her first
counselor, Francelle E. Robson, was sick
and unable to attend the conference. A
statistical and financial report was given,
and it was stated the officers had visited
every ward during the last three months.
A recent fire had destroyed books, wheat,
and everything belonging to the Lehi Ward
Relief Society. Annual Day, March 17th,
had been observed in some of the wards,
but there had been much sickness in the
Stake. The Woman’s Building was spoken
of and also the annual fee. Encourage-
ment to persevere in every good work and
a deep interest in the Gospel was manifest.
			ANNIE E. FULLER, Sec.
BEAVER.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Bea-
ver Stake, held at Minersville, May 29,
1902, Counselor Mary A. White presiding.
Visitors from Salt Lake City of the General
Board, First Counselor Annie Taylor
Hyde and Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams; al-
so of the General Board, Sister Julia P. M.
Farnsworth.
	After singing, prayer and reading of
minutes, Counselor White made opening
remarks, welcoming the visitors and all pres-
ent in a happy manner.
	Wards reported were Beaver, by Presi-
dent J. W. Bickley, Greenville, President
Margaret Williams; Minersville, President
Susan Roberts.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde referred to the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, in a very inter-
esting way, encouraged the reading of the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants and other

[Column 3]
Church works in their sewing meetings, ad-
monished the sisters to be faithful, and
spoke interestingly of the Woman’s Build-
ing.
	Sister J. P. M. Farnsworth spoke of the
Memorial Building to be erected, and of
her desire that all the sisters should have
their names enrolled in the fund for the
Woman’s Building, made other excellent
remarks.
	Sisters Betsy Goodwin, Ada Rollins and
Counselor H. E. Fotheringham, also Elder
George Eyre spoke upon the benefits of the
Relief Society and encouraged the per-
formance of duties in the home, and par-
ticularly the training of children.
	In the afternoon General and Stake
officers of the Relief Society were presented
and sustained, and a beautiful duet was
rendered by two of the Minersville sisters.
	Sister Clarissa S Williams spoke, on 
the duties of parents and mothers, the
necessity of prayer and unselfishness, and
her appreciation of the work of the Relief
Society
	Sister Mary Farley gave some excellent
advice and Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke
of the society, “Daughters of the Pioneers,”
thought it a good thing to keep alive in the
minds of the young people the remembrance
of what the fathers and mothers had gone
through; also thought it the duty of every
woman to look as beautiful as possible,
we ought to take a few minutes each day
to make ourselves beautiful. Mentioned a
little book they had brought with them,
encouraged the sisters to buy them.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde spoke of her ex-
perience in the East this last winter, and
related an incident which gave her an idea
of their opinion of this people; exhorted
the sisters to watch over the boys and girls
and avoid all appearance of evil.
	Sisters Eyre and Rachel Marshall each
spoke a few moments, and President White
gave good instructions, encouraging the
sister. A fine solo was rendered by
President J. W. Bickley.
	Counselor M. A. White made closing re-
marks and announced that a meeting would
be held in the Beaver meeting house in the
evening. Benediction by Bishop Wm. Ed-
wards.
		FANNIE E. HARRIS, Act. Sec. 
NORTH SANPETE.
	Relief Society Conference of North San-
pete Stake was held at Spring City, June
9, 1902, President Mina Erickson, presid-
ing. There was a goodly number of sis-
ters present, and visitors from the General
Board were Sisters E. J. Stevenson and
Phebe Y. Beatie.
	After a welcome by the president reports
were given by Sister Jones of Milburn;
President Guyman, Fountain Green; Presi-
dent Edmunds, Wales; President Allred,
Chester; President Simonson, Freedom. 
	The beautiful music by Miss Acord and
Mrs. Peterson. Other reports were Sister
Johnson, Fountain Green; President Can-
dace Wheeler, Mt. Pleasant North Ward;
Sister Mary Frantzen, Spring City.
	President C. N. Lund then addressed
the sisters and expressed his views upon
the purpose of storing grain, and urged
the sisters to replace the wheat which had
been disposed of Made excellent sugges-
tions. 
	Sister Allred was pleased with the ex-
planation made by President Lund about
the wheat, thought the storing of wheat


[Column 1]
very important since the advent of the
grasshoppers. Reported the visit of Stake
officers to the several wards.
	Sister Carrie Erickson, secretary, by re-
quest explained some parts of the little
book recently published, in regard to
mother’s meetings and the study of child
nature.
	Afternoon session. Annual report and
minutes read by the secretary. Fairview
reported by President Rebecca Tucker.
	President Tulgreen, Spring City, spoke
upon visiting the sick, etc., and Sister
Simpson reported South Ward Mt. Pleasant
All these sisters gave good accounts of the
work and condition of the society.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson made a very able
address, encouraging the sisters in their
duties and making many excellent sugges-
tions. Urged them to keep the Word of
Wisdom, to take the EXPONENT, to re-
member the annual fee on March 17, en-
treated mothers to attend their meetings
regularly and to keep the Spirit of the
Lord for a guide in the family.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie spoke of the first
organization of the Relief Society and the
instructions given by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Referred to her mother’s (Sister
Zina) teaching upon these subjects, and of
the example set in the days of Nauvoo. She
also mentioned attending the National
Council of Women and the good that had
been done by affiliating with that great
body of women.
	Sister Lydia Candland spoke upon the
tendencies of summer excursions, urged the
mothers to be wise and not allow their
daughters to go unaccompanied by older
people.
	Sister Stevenson presented greetings to
the sisters from Sisters B. W. Smith and
E. B. Wells.
	Closing remarks by President Erickson
and benediction by Brother Hardy.
		CARRIE L ERICKSON, Sec.
			PANGUITCH.
	The Relief Society conference of Pan-
guitch Stake, held at Panguitch, July 5,
1902, President Elizabeth DeLong presid-
ing. Visitors present, Sisters E. J. Steven-
son and M. A. Caine. Wards reported,
Circleville, Mrs. Sarah Morrill; Mammoth,
Sister Clive; Hillsdale, Sister Mary John-
son; President DeLong reported the visits
through the Stake.
	Sisters Caine and Stevenson each ad
dressed the conference upon general sub-
jects, the teaching of children, reading of
Church works and preparing ourselves to
assist in spreading the Gospel.
	Sisters Barbara Myers, Alice J. Cameron
and Hannah Crosby spoke a few minutes
upon home duties, living our religion, etc
	President David Cameron encouraged the
sisters in Relief Society work and in trying
to learn more fully of the Gospel.
	Afternoon session. President Mary B.
Heywood reported Panguitch; Ellen Tra
per, Junction.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke quite at
length on Temple work, also good house-
keeping, and against following the fashions
of the world, on the duties of teachers, and
particularly dwelt upon mothers teaching
their sons and daughters to be virtuous.
	Sister M. A. Caine spoke on the duties of
women in the home and in the society; up-
on family life, respect for the visits of
teachers, the storing of wheat and against

[Column 2]
running in debt; also in regard to cleanli-
ness.
	Bishop James B. Heywood endorsed the
remarks of the sisters, spoke against con-
tracting debts and against young people
marrying outside the Church.
	Conference adjourned. Benediction by
Brother J. H. Riding. 
		MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec.
			ALPINE.
	The Relief Society conference of Alpine
Stake was held at Pleasant Grove, July 11,
1902, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Visitors, Sister Annie Taylor Hyde,
first counselor to President Bathsheba W.
Smith in the General Relief Society, and
Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the Gener-
al Board.
	President Standring welcomed all pres-
ent, greeting them in a genial, kindly man-
ner.
	Minutes of former conference read and
reports from wards given Pleasant Grove,
President Sarah Foutz; Manilla, President
Isadore Beck; Lehi, Sister Maria Anderson
Alpine, President Sarah Marsh; American
Fork 1st ward, President Orpha Robinson;
American Fork 2nd ward, President Sarah
S. Chipman; 3rd ward, Sister Elizabeth Var-
ney; 4th ward, President Alice T. Steele;
Linden, Sister Emma Cobbley; Lehi. north
branch, President Ellen Jones.
	Reports were very satisfactory, Mothers
and Daughters meetings well attended and
are a blessing to the young women.
	First Counselor Annie T. Hyde addressed
the conference, admired the congregation
of young women, spoke of the Mothers and
Daughters meeting, approved of each organ-
zation presiding in turn. The sisters should
look after new comers, and should not
let them feel they were strangers. Told
them President Smith was not able to come
to the conference, that she never missed
her Temple work and always hore testi-
mony of the Prophet Joseph Smith, refer-
red to her faithfulness and said she never
required of others what she was not willing
to do herself. Gave advice about the stor-
ing of wheat and advised keeping the Word
of Wisdom. Spoke of the Woman’s
Building and explained its uses. Urged
the sisters to make their own lives a suc-
cess and said many other good things.
	President S. L. Chipman praised the Re-
lief Society, spoke of impressing the chil-
dren with the importance of observing
Pioneer Day, that they might reverence the
men and women who came here in the
early days and labored to build up the
country. 
	Counselor Annie O. Hindley rejoiced in
the work of alleviating suffering and ad-
ministering comfort to the sick and needy,
said the Mothers and Daughters meetings
had been a success.
	President Standring made excellent
closing remarks, especially in regard to
taking care of the wheat.
	Afternoon session. President Standring
requested the sisters to rise in wards, and
found the wards were all well represehted.
	President James H. Clarke addressed the
meeting, gave excellent advice to the sis-
ters, spoke upon sacrifice and trials and
against discussing our neighbor’s affairs,
its evil tendency in the home, etc.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke upon
our example, the sacrifices made by the
parents who had laid the foundation of this

[Column 3]
work, the influence we carry for good. Re-
ferred to the noble young missionaries out,
in the world, explained about the nurses
classes and spoke of good housekeepeing.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth advised
young women not to shun the responsibi-
lities of motherhood, the noblest name on
earth is that of mother. There are no
women held in the respect that our sisters
are, she was glad to know the sisters of
Alpine Stake.
	President Standring felt thankful for the
instructions received and for the Holy
Spirit manifest. Counseled parents to keep
their children from secret societies, urged
the sisters to exert an influence to keep
their children away from all evil associa-
tions, we have plenty in the Church to
satisfy any righteous desire Spoke of the
Exponent and urged the sisters to sub-
scribe for it, as it was the organ pertaining
to woman’s work.
	Conference adjourned for three months. 
Benediction by Bishop Thorne.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.
			UTAH STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Utah
Stake was held in Provo City, on
Monday, July 14, 1902, President Mary 
John presiding. President Bathsheba W.
Smith and Counselors Annie T. Hyde and
Ida Smoot Dusenberry were present with
us and gave good instructions.
	Sister Percie Bunnell was sustained as
second counselor to Sister Mary John, to
fill the vacancy caused by the death of
Sister Deborah Billings. Sister Bunnell
had held the position of aid to the Stake
Relief Society presidency.
	Other aids were chosen as follows:
	Sister Elizabeth D. Brown, of Provo;
Sister Martha F. Keeler, of Provo; Sister
Julia Maycock, of Springville.
	There was a good attendance at the
meetings, and the Relief Society branches
of the Stake reported in excellent condi-
tion. Many of the branches are building
granaries and storing wheat according to
counsel.
	A banquet was served to the visitors at
noon, after which an officers meeting was
held until the hour for afternoon services.
		MARY JOHN, Pres.
		CAROLINE PRATT, Sec.
			BIG HORN. 
	The first Relief Society conference of
the Big Horn Stake of Zion was held in
Burlington, Wyoming, August 1, 1902
commencing at 10 a. m., President Lucy
F. Grant presiding.
	After singing and prayer President Grant
expressed her great joy in seeing so many
sisters present in the first conference, and
prayed for the blessing of the Lord to aid
them in the cause they were representing
The roll was called, showing each ward
represented except Byron.
	Brief remarks upon the work of the
society by Stake Counselor C. A. Welch.
	Sister Dixon, counselor to Sister Grant,
felt if the sisters would perform their duties
to the society as well as home duties would
allow, much good might be accomplished.
	Sister Mary A Welch spoke of doing the
Lord’s will pioneering in that “desert
land.”
	Sister Perry related experiences of
early days in the Church, Stake Counselor-
Jesse W. Crosby spoke upon obedience and
the training of children, etc.


[Column 1]
	Afternoon session. Opening remarks
by President Lucy F. Grant encouraging
all to persevere in the work of the society.
	President Reeves reported Burlington
society, the sisters willing to do all in their
power to forward the cause of truth.
	An interesting essay, “The Courtesies of
Home,” by Counselor Chloe B. Lee was
read by Ellen H. Jolley. A duet, “Faith,
Hope and Charity,” was sung in a pleasing
style by Sisters Nellie Packard and Violet
McMoen.
	Sister J W. Crosby reported the Cowley
Ward in a thriving condition; President
Carrie Olsen, Lovell Ward as doing well;
President Merkeley, Otto Ward, there had
been some sickness there which had pre-
vented holding regular meetings, but all
were, doing well now.
	Recitation, “Should the Master Come
Today,” very well rendered by Sister Ret-
ta Porter. Select reading, Sister Alfa
Grant; much enjoyed.
	Bishop McMoen of Burlington, and
Bishop Jolley of Lovell, commended the
sisters of the Relief Society and spoke of
their aid to the Bishops.
	Counselor Vilda Dixon encouraged the
mothers in helping each other, to teach
correct principles to the children.
	Bishop Partridge spoke of his love for
the Relief Society and thought we could
get along better without any of the other
organizations in the Church than without
this society.
	Brother Crosby gave some excellent ad-
vice to the officers in regard to counseling
with each other.
	Sister Ketchum wished a mother’s class
organized in each society.
	President Grant made a few closing re-
marks. Benediction by Brother W. B.
Graham.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff, wife of the
late President Wilford Woodruff, reached
Burlington after the conference was over,
but a meeting was called for Saturday,
August 2, at 4 o’clock, and the sisters
listened with great interest to her words of
advice and counsel. She suggested that
the sisters here, being from so many parts
of Utah, Idaho and other places, put forth
all their best ideas and develop one of the
best Stake organizations in the Church.
	A song composed by Rufus P. Snell,
was rendered by him and very much en-
joyed by all. Several persons bore faithful
testimonies of the Gospel.
ELLEN H. JOLLY, Ass’t. Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Sociely Conference of Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Assembly
Hall, in this City, Saturday, September 6,
1902, President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. President Bathsheba W Smith was
on the stand, Stake Counselors Sarah J.
Cannon and Clara C Cannon were present,
also aids, secretaries and treasurer.
	After the opening exercises, minutes and
reports were read and accepted, President
Horne made an address of welcome, re-
minding the sisters that they were to be
judged out of the books, urging them to
fulfill every duty and repeating a number
of the sayings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Spoke of the prophecies and urged
the storing and care of wheat, and not
keep wheat money on hand.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon said if we
will only do our part, our Father in heaven
will fulfill all His promises to us. We are

[Column 2]
called here on missions and do not know
how long we can stay.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said our
future glory depends on our every day life.
Let us speak of each other’s virtues and
avoid slander of any kind.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams thought we
did not realize the responsibility of Relief
Society work; we are not only required to
relieve the poor, but to sympathize with
the broken-hearted. Gave timely advice to
secretaries, realized the work of the society
was grand and noble.
	The General and Stake officers of the
society were sustained by unanimous vote;
also the officers of the branches in this
Stake of Zion.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by Sister M. C. Hull.
	Afternoon session was addressed by
General President Bathsheba W. Smith,
who exhorted all to live their holy religion
and said, “We are trying to love our
neighbor as ourselves, look after the needy
and lay away the dead. Let our religion
be first, and never grow weak in the faith,
we should love everybody and never be
jealous.”
	Sister Lydia D Alder, aid in Salt Lake
Stake, said increase of faith in the Gospel
will increase our happiness, urged keeping
the Word of Wisdom. Our life is a school,
and trials will come to us. Felt it neces-
sary to prepare for famine.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson, of the General
Board, urged storing wheat and building
granaries, according to the counsel of
President Young. Spoke on humility and
love, learning to govern ourselves and be
meek and lowly.
	Sister Maggie Hull sang a solo, “Glory
to God on High.”
	Elder James Sharp, addressed the meet-
ing, said he had told the strangers who
had entered the gates of the Tabernacle
square that the Relief Society organization
had in it the noblest women on earth, their
mission is unlimited, they are akin to the
angels, God never gave a more glorious
thought to Joseph Smith than the organiz-
ing of this society. Said “If you are
angered do not rest till you have made it
right, you cannot have the Holy Ghost
and have a hard thought in your heart.
Get the Holy Spirit and keep it, is my
advice. If in an unguarded moment you
injure any one, go in humility and repair
the wrong.”
	President M. W. Wilcox, Sister Eliza-
beth Webb, President Elizabeth Paul,
Secretary Julia S. Woolley, Sister M. E.
Irvine and Elder Joseph Christianson each
made brief remarks on the work of the
Society, its good purposes and excellent re-
sults, the many blessings attending it, the
mission of peace and good will, as well as
good works. Many excellent things were
said and the Spirit of God was manifest in
the conference.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Elder C. J. Thomas.
JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Alice E. Rowe, of Springfield, Mass.,
has been elected a member of the staff of
the State hospital for the insane in Gow-
anda, N. Y., and will serve in that institu-
tion as a specialist in gynecology. This
institution is the largest of its kind in New
York, and the election carries with it con-
siderable honor.


IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE.
	Emily Gentry, the wife of Henry J. Sorenson,
born May 29, 1857, in England. She emigrated to
Utah with her parents when abont eleven years
old, and since that time has been united with the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. She
resided at Coalville, Utah, with her parents until
her marriage, July 25, 1877.
	Sister Gentry has been a member of the Thomas
Fork Ward, now called Raymond for about nine
years, and also a member of the Relief Society
since its organization, May, 1892, until her death,
July 30, 1902.
	She was a willing and faithful worker in the
society a true Latter-day Saint and a devoted
and loving mother. Her last counsel to her sons
was always to be good and true to their religion.
She leaves a husband, five sons and one daugh-
ter to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas our Father in Heaven in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst one of
our esteemed sisters, Emily Sorenson and whereas
in her demise we have lost a dear friend and faith-
ful Latter-day Saint, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Raymond
Relief Society, extend our heartfelt sympathy to
the bereaved family in this their hour of sorrow.
	That we ever cherish her memory and regard
her virtues as worthy of emulation.
	That a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the bereaved family, one be placed on the records
of the Relief Society and one be sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
						MARTHA HART.
	Raymond, Idaho.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas God has so suddenly bereft us of
our beloved sister, Elizabeth Hanford, president
of the Twentieth Ward Relief Society for the past
four years, be it now
	Resolved, that we mourn her demise, a faithful
worker, a comforter in the hour of need, a devoted
mother and wife, a true Latter-day Saint. That
we esteem her in this society. That we sympa-
thize with her husband and son in their sad be-
reavement.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her huspand and son, that a copy be sent
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and that the same ap-
pear on record in the Twentieth Ward Relief
Society.
					HANNAH LAPISH,
					JULIA C. TAYLOR,
					REBECCA DAYNES.
						Committee.
	July 7, 1902.


AN INTERESTING TRIP.
	President Ann C. Woodbury and Emma
J. Morris, her counselor, of the presidency
of the Relief Society, and Rosinia Jarvis,
president of the Young Ladies and aid to
the Primary of the St. George Stake, left
August 12 to visit the western settlements,
including White River.
	We started out early, this being a hard
day’s drive, owing to the road being sandy
and up hill. We arrived at Pine Valley in
the rain, which was very welcome. We
held a meeting with the Primary. Here
we met a lot of well behaved children, and
the sisters gave them good instruction. A
very small girl, Maggie Gardner, played
the organ, the children sang beautifully.
	The next morning we held a Relief
Society meeting, Sister Ann Snow presid-
ing. We urged the sisters to store grain,
live their religion, feed the poor, clothe the
naked and comfort the hearts of those that
were bowed down.
	After partaking of Sister Jane Gardner’s
hospitality, we went to Pinto and met with
the Relief Society in the afternoon, in the
evening with the Young Ladies, where all
bore their testimonies. We had a delight-
ful time. Sister Neil Forsyth entertained
us nicely, and in the early morning we met


[Column 1]
with the Primary, mothers and all. The
Lord is surely with this people.
	We had an enjoyable time and went on
to Hebron, held meeting in the afternoon
and met a few sisters. The Lord has
said, "Where there are a few met together,
in my name, I will be there, and that to
bless them.” Sister Huntsman had died
away at a ranch, and some of the people
were taking care of the dead, and others
were out on ranches
	We had a nice meeting and went on to
Sister Mary A. Terry’s ranch, where we
were kindly cared for. We then went to
Clover Valley and met with the Relief
Society and Primary. There are but few
people here. It is truly gratifying to meet
with people in these little out of the way
places. The Gospel is planted in their
hearts and meets with a ready response
when they hear it.
	Next morning we went and reorganized
the Primary. Clara C. Lytle is the new
president.
	We traveled on to Panacea and held
Primary in the evening. Here we met a
bright lot of children. Sunday Sister Mor-
ris and I visited an afflicted sister and com-
forted her, also attended Sabbath School.
We had the privilege of talking to the chil
dren. We went to meeting, and after the
sacrament was administered the Bishop
called on Brother Miles and Rosinia Jarvis
to speak. At the close of the meeting we
met with the Young Ladies and had a joy-
ful time. In the evening we met with the
Relief Society. We urged the sisters to
provide for the poor, and let no one suffer
in their midst. All the trouble is we did
not stay long enough. After meeting, the
young ladies treated us to ice cream and
cake. Here we were kindly entertained
by Sister Sarah Lee, president of the Relief
Society, who gave us fifty pounds of oats
for our horses.
	We went on to Bristol Wells where we
camped for the night, then went to Brother
John Lee’s ranch, where we were warm-
ly welcomed. They have a fine ranch with
large springs and excellent crops. The
White River valley has many fine ranches
in it.
	We went to Lund and met Brother
Thomas Judd and wife, former residents of
St. George. We met many other friends,
and next day held a meeting with the
Primary, had a good congregation of both
parents and children. The sisters gave
good instructions.
	We then went on to Preston. Here the
people turned out en masse, and one or two
vehicles came loaded from Lund to join our
meeting. There is truly a good people.
Many moved here from Moroni, Sanpete
Co., mostly young men, to make homes.
We had a nice time, in the evening had a
meeting of the Relief Society, but I think
almost everybody was there. We had an
excellent meeting, and afterwards were en-
tertained by Bishop Arnoldson and wife.
They asked us to visit with them on Satur-
turday evening on our return.

[Column 2]
	On our way to Georgetown we passed
through the Ely mining town, there is
quite a population there seemingly, lots of
business going on. The water belonging
to George Town passes by there. The
miners want the water, they have made an
offer, for it. The people think of selling
out to them and get further away from a
mining camp.
	In the afternoon we met with the Pri-
mary, in the evening with the Relief
Society and Young Ladies and talked on
the duties of the different associations.
Bishop Morley said he would walk twenty
mites to attend such a meeting, and pro-
posed to give us a vote of thanks which
was unanimous. The people here are
broken up on account of expecting to sell
their water. They are so near a mining
camp that it will be a blessing to get away
from it. They wished us to spend more
time with them.
	The next day we returned to Preston
and held meeting there. Brother Miles spoke
upon his knowledge of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and the persecutions of the Saints.
Brother Samuel Miles, seventy-six years
old, could remember many things about the
Prophet. Sisters Jarvis, Morris and Wood-
bury bore testimony.
	We went on to Lund next day and at-
tended the Sabbath School. Brother Miles
and the sisters talked to the children. In
the afternoon after the sacrament had been
administered the meeting was turned over
to the sisters and Brother Miles who spoke
to an appreciative audience. In the evening
we met with the Relief Society. Sister
Mary J. Judd resigned as president of the
Relief Society on account of moving away.
The resignation was accepted, and a vote
of thanks was given her for her past ser-
vices. Emily A Burgess was voted in
as president, Ann E. Walker and Mary L.
Oxborough, counselors. We had an en-
joyable time.
	The next day we left Lund arrived at
the Reardon ranch. They made us very
welcome and invited us to dinner. They
had lived here 35 years. Last year they
sold $300.00 worth of stock. Here are love-
ly springs and is a nice location for a num-
ber of families. Wishing them well we
we went on to Brother John Lee’s, where
we spent the night and were made very
welcome by his entire family.
	In the morning we left Brother Lee’s
and went a couple of mites and called on
Mrs Lewis, who has a big ranch of a hun-
dred acres, fenced, and with immense
springs to water it. We went on to Bris-
tol Wells and camped. Next day we went
on to Pages, where an old lady was alone.
She pumped the water for our horses. Her
husband was away on a ranch they had
fourteen miles away, and she had no neigh-
bors that we could see.
	We went on to Eagle Valley, where we
held meeting in the evening, Sister Sarah
Hammond presiding. There are very few
Latter-day Saints in this valley. It is a
flourishing valley, we went on to Modena

[Column 3]
and met friends. Brother Brigham Lund,
gave us a sack of oats for our horses.
	We started for Enterprise and found our-
selves at Hebron where we spent the night
with Bishop Holt’s interesting family.
	We went to Enterprise next day and held
meeting at ten a. m., had a good meeting.
The people are living in hope that a big
reservoir that is being built will benefit
them.
	We then went on to Mouseley’s and
spent the night.
	On the 30th we arrived home, having
traveled five hundred miles, been gone
nineteen days and held nineteen meetings.
We feel that the Lord has blessed and pre-
served us, and give him the praise for the
joy and satisfaction we have had in visit-
ing the Saints.
ANN C WOODBURY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. TRY US 

[Column 2]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts 
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on 
Monday, Oct. 13, 1902.
For further information write to Dr. Roberts, 55
North State St. Telephone 449. 
Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW. 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


“Some student discovers that there is no
word in the Chinese language that conveys
the intimation of what we term public spir-
it, nor is there a synonym for patriotism.
Nor is there any word or phrase implying
woman suffrage.”

	At a meeting of the trustees of the Uni-
versity of Chicago, held about the middle of
last month, the proposed scheme for the
segregation of the sexes during the first
two years of University work, was dis-
cussed for over two hours. It was decided
to postpone final action for two months. A
majority of the trustees are said to be op-
posed to segregation and in favor of co-
education as it now exists in the Univer-
sity. This is the second time the trustees
have deferred action on the matter.


Sarah A. Burton [written by hand at the top of the page]
Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1 & 15, 1902 Nos. 9-10


CONTENTS.
Extracts from a Letter..Sandford W. Hedges		33
Relief Society Report......Maria Hutteballe		34
Ladies' Semi-monthly Meeting......A. Wadrop	34
Interesting Visits and Meetings. M. B. Eyring	34
Notes and News..............................			34
Utah Woman's Press Club...Lydia D. Alder		35
Hints to Housekeepers.....................B. R.		35
Relief Society Conference............E. B. Wells	37
International Declaration....................			39
A Woman Missionary........................			39
Items of Interest..................................			40
EDITORIAL—Officers and General Board......	3
	Three Quarters of a Century..................		3
	A Book for the Holidays.....................		3
	Daughters of the Revolution................		3
	A Work of Art..............................			36
POETRY—Ah! If We Knew..Lydia D. Alder	33
	Mount Hood................Ellis R. Shipp		35


AH! IF WE KNEW. 
Ah! if we knew we'd meet no more, 
That ere the summer's sun, 
Its radiance cast o'er sea and shore, 
Our earthly course was run, 
How kind, how gently would we speak, 
How clasp the proffered hand! 
Ah me! our spirit would be meek,
For we would understand. 
Ah! if we knew ! Oh! if we knew!
We’d love our fellow man, 
We surely then would nothing rue, 
For 'tis the better plan. 
Ah! if we knew, no jealousy, 
Would e'er corrode the heart, 
Abiding love 'twixt you and me, 
Would bind where now we part. 
Ah! if we knew the heavy cross, 
We each bear day by day; 
As traveling on through trial—loss—
Thorns piercing by the way—
We’d gladly let the by-gones go, 
Be strangers ne'er again, 
Ah, me! Ah, me! could we but know, 
'Twould still this bitter pain. 
Could we but know, how plain 'twould be, 
We ever love could trace; 
Such loving thoughts we then would see, 
Smiles e'en on sorrow's face.
Ah! we shall know some gladsome day, 
In doubt ne'er sigh again; 
Know love was with us all the way, 
Through all the tears and pain. 
LYDIA D. ALDER.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.
SANDFORD W. HEDGES.

	The Japanese theatre claims a peculiar
importance, as the only place where the
life of old Japan can be studied in these
radical latter-days.
	It can be traced back to religious dances
of immemorial antiquity, accompanied by
rude choir songs. An improvement, how-
ever, has taken place, and the result is
strikingly similar to the old Greek drama.
There is no scenery, but the dresses are
magnificent. Even the audience, composed
chiefly of noblemen and ladies of rank is a
study. They come, not merely to be
amused, but to learn, and they follow the
play through, book in hand.
	The music is—well, it is Oriental, never-
theless, when due allowance has been made
for orientalism and antiquity, it has a cer-
tain charm. Each piece takes about an
hour to act. So, you see, for a play to last
for days is nothing unusual, and between
the intervals they fill up the space by
comedians, whose broad fun, delivered in

[Column 2]
cold parchment colloquial, serves as a foil
to the classic severity of the chief plays.
Oddly enough, though the founders of the
modern Japanese stage were women, men
alone have been allowed to act at the chief
theatres, the female parts being taken by
males, as in our own Shakespeare’s age.
One excellent arrangement is a revolving
center to the stage which allows of a second
scene being set up behind while the first is
in the course of acting. On the conclusion
of the first the stage revolves, carrying
away with it actors, scenery and all, and
something entirely new greets the specta-
tor’s eyes, without a moment’s waiting.
We happened to arrive at the time
the comedians and magicians were
holding forth. The tricks some of the
magicians do are very clever and would
outdo some of our best men of “Black
Art.” They seem also to have a master of
ceremonies, who when he wishes to intro-
duce a new feature rings a hand bell and
makes a two or three minutes speech. We
stayed long enough to see a dance, which
appeared to me to be nothing more or less
than a man who had gone bad in his upper
story. He yelled, twisted himself into all
kinds of shapes, and at last, to the satisfac-
tion of all, ended his dance by thrusting
his sword into his breast. It was the
dardest dance I ever saw. I forgot to tell
you, in my description of the theatre, that
there are no seats. They all sit on the floor
with a little box filled with dirt, except a
small hole in the center, where there is
some burning charcoal with which the
Japanese lights his pipe. Their pipes only
hold enough tobacco for two puffs, so you
see they would run out of matches in no
time, as they smoke constantly.
	Lunches are served during the play, and
after leaving the theatre you would say “it
was the greatest thing you ever saw.”
	Perhaps you would be interested in the
architecture of Japan. Well, I will try to
give you some idea from my personal
observations, and a little of what I have
read.
	To my observation the Japanese genius
touches perfection in small things. I do
not believe any other nation ever under-
stood half so well how to make a cup, a
tray, even a little kettle a thing of beauty;
how to transform a little knob of ivory into
a microcosm of quaint humor, how to
express a fugitive thought into a half
dozen strokes of the pencil.
	The mass, the spacious, the grand is less
congenial to their mental attitude. Hence
they achieve less success in architecture
than in other arts. The prospect of a
Japanese city from a height is monotonous;
not a tower, not a dome, nothing aspiring
heavenward, and in rare cases a painted
pagoda half hidden amidst the trees, which
it barely tops, nothing but long, low lines
of thatched houses, even the Buddhist
temple roofs being but moderately raised
above the rest, and their curves only quaint
and graceful, in no way imposing.
	The ordinary Japanese house is a light,
frame work structure, whose thatched,

[Column 3]
shingled or tiled roof, very heavy in pro-
portion, is supported on stones with slight-
ly hollowed tops, resting on the surface of
the soil. There is no foundation, as that
word is understood by an architect. The
house stands on the ground, not in it.
There are no walls, at least no continu-
ous walls. The sides of the house, com-
posed at night of wooden sliding doors
called amado, are stowed away in boxes
during the day. In summer everything is
thus open to the outer air. In winter
semi-transparent paper slides called shoji
replace the wooden sliding doors during the
day. The rooms are divided from each
other by opaque paper screens, called
fusuma, which run in grooves at the top and
bottom. By taking out these sliding screens
several rooms can be turned into one. The
floors of all the living rooms are covered
with thick mats made of rushes, perfectly
fitted together so as to leave no interstices.
The mats in my room are six by three feet
in size, which is always the size they make
them, so you see it is usual to compute the
area of the room by the number of its mats.
The kitchen and passages are not matted,
but have a wooden floor which is kept
brightly polished. The passages are few,
for as a rule each room opens into the other
on each side.
	Furniture is conspicuous by its absence.
There are no tables, no chairs, no wash-
stands, none of the thousand and one things
which we consider we cannot do without. 
The necessity for bedsteads is obviated by
quilts, which are brought into the room at
night and placed down wherever they
happen most convenient. No table is re-
quired in a family where each member is
served separately on a little lacquer tray.
	These details will probably suggest a very
uncomfortable sum total, and Japanese
houses are supremely uncomfortable. Noth-
ing to sit on, nothing but a hibachi to warm
one’s self by, no solidity, no privacy, the
deafening clatter twice daily of the opening
and shutting of the outer wooden slides;
draughts insiduously pouring in through
innumerable chinks and cracks; darkness
whenever heavy rains make it necessary to
shut up one or more sides of the houses.
To these and various other enormities
Japanese houses must plead guilty.
	Two things chiefly may be said on the
other side. These houses are cheap, the
essential point in a poor country. The
people who have to live in them do not have
American ideas with regard to comfort or
discomfort. They do not miss fireplaces or
stoves, never having realized the possibili-
ities of such elaborate arrangements of heat-
ing, and many other things which are a
necessity to us. But physicians who have
made a study of Japanese houses from the
point of view of hygiene, give them a good,
clean bill of health.
TOKIO, JAPAN, Japan, September, 1902.


Mrs. Cornelia Miles, principal of a Den-
ver school, was recently elected president
of the Colorado Academy of Science.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
BENSON.
	Report of the Benson Stake Relief Society
conference, which was held at Lewiston,
July 28, 1902. 
	The conference was well attended, there
being a good representation from each ward
and a good spirit prevailed. There were
present, besides the Stake officers, Counse-
lor Annie T. Hyde, of the General Board,
and Sister Mary A. Freeze, of the Y. L.
N. M. I. A., both of Salt Lake City.
	During the morning session reports from
the various wards were given and a song
was very beautifully rendered by Smith-
field Relief Society
	Sisters Annie T. Hyde and Mary A.
Freeze addressed the congregation and
gave some valuable instruction and en-
couragement.
	Among the speakers who occupied the
time of the afternoon session were Counselor
B. A. Hendricks, of the Stake, Bishop. Wm.
Waddoups, Sisters Annie T. Hyde, Mary
A. Freeze and Almira Merrill.
	The following program was also rend-
ered:
	A lecture on “Motherhood,” which con-
tained many good points, was given by
President Maggie Merrill, of Richmond.
Lewiston rendered a song, and a biogra-
phical sketch of Lucy Smith, mother of the
Prophet, was given by Coveville. 
	After sustaining the officers, conference 
was adjourned.
MARIA HUTTEBALLE, Cor. Sec.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
The Ladies' Semi-monthly Meeting, of 
August 16, 1902, which convened in the 
Fourteenth Ward Hall, was well attended, 
President M. Isabella Horne presiding. 
After the usual opening exercises of 
singing and prayer, President Horne gave 
an interesting address on the subject of 
motherhood; also spoke of her recent trip 
South. She felt the sisters there were 
doing a good work in the organizations.
Referred, to the play of Corianton and its 
success, believed it would do good and 
cause the people of the world to investigate. 
She had great pleasure in talking of the 
truths revealed in the last days, felt she 
had many times allayed prejudice in con-
versing with strangers; closed her remarks 
with an earnest appeal to mothers to watch 
over their children and train them properly, 
and especially to keep the Spirit of God for 
a guide. 
Sister Julia C. Howe thanked the Lord 
for raising her up from a bed of sickness, 
also said we could preach the Gospel by our 
actions as well as our words. 
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie referred to the 
time of the first organization of the Re-
trenchment meetings by her father, Presi-
dent Brigham Young, when he organized 
his own daughters in the Lion House. She 
spoke of the information bureau recently 
established on the Temple grounds, thought 
great good would result from it. 
Sister E. J. Stevenson entreated the 
mothers to have their children attend Sun-
day School and to have order and union in 
their families.
Sister Martha Morris, Sister Quinn and 
another sister bore faithful testimonies. 
Sister Lydia D. Alder told of an officers’
meeting she attended in the country where


the sisters were unanimous in keeping the 
Word of Wisdom and in paying their tith-
ing. 
Sister Stevenson rejoiced in the Temple 
work; also urged the sisters in regard to 
their children, to guard them, especially 
the boys. 
Adjournment, singing and prayer. 
AMELIA WADROP, Sec.


[Column 1]
INTERESTING VISITS AND MEETINGS. 
COLONIA JUAREZ, MEXICO.
Early Thursday morning, June 27, 
Brother Edward Eyring, home missionary, 
President Mary B. Eyring and Eunice S. 
Harris, in the interest of the Relief Society, 
Caroline Eyring, first counselor in the 
Primary, left their homes in Colonia, Juarez,
to visit the colonies in the mountains. 
A pleasant journey of about eight miles
brought us to the mouth of the canon, 
where the change of scenery, combined 
with the cool atmosphere made the ascent 
of the mountain indeed pleasant. On arriv-
ing at the top of the mountain we had a 
magnificent view of the beautiful valley 
1520 feet below, from which we had as-
cended, and as far as the eye could see in 
front rolling hills interlaced with canon 
gorges and covered with a forest of pine, 
oak and juniper. 
We arrived at the saw mill with good 
appetites, in time for dinner. Here we 
had a refreshing shower, which being the 
first rain we have had in this part of the 
country for so many months, was truly
welcome.
After dinner we continued our journey 
through the most sublime mountain scenery 
to Pacheco, located about thirty-five miles 
from Colonia Juarez. At ten a. m. Friday 
we met wrth the Relief Society, and at one 
p. m. with the Primary, then continued our 
journey to Garcia, a distance of eight 
miles, stopping at Corralles on the way to 
visit Aunt Ellen Lunt, now living with 
Sister Sarah Lunt. We found her happy, 
but very feeble in body and mind. When 
we told her where we were going, she wept 
because she was not able to go with us. 
She has been an energetic worker in the 
Relief Society for so many years, it is a sore
trial to her to be inactive. We met with 
the Relief Society there that evening. 
Early Saturday morning we resumed our 
journey to Chuichupa, located in an open 
valley forty miles south of Garcia. This 
was indeed a delightful ride in the tops of 
Sierra Madre mountains; the entire distance 
being through a forest of majestic pines 
sighing in the breeze, the air so cool and 
invigorating, laden with the scent from the 
pines, that it was refreshing both to mind 
and body, and gave us a keen relish for 
dinner. 
We arrived in Chuichupa in the evening, 
finding the people somewhat discouraged 
over the long drouth. Their wells had all 
gone dry, and they had to haul their water 
from springs a mile and a half away. How-
ever, their hearts were gladdened on Sun-
day by a beautiful rain, which was the first 
moisture to fall in the valley for eight 
months. The soil is very rich there and 
needs but a few showers to cause vegetation 
to spring up on every side. 
On Sunday we met in special meeting 
with the Relief Society and Primary. We 
were truly pleased to find all of the associa-
tions in the different colonies in full work-

[Column 2]
ing order, with organizations complete and 
truly energetic officers and members, alive 
to their duties and greatly interested in the 
Relief Society work. 
Monday we started on the homeward 
trip, meeting with the Primary in Garcia at 
six p. m , and attending a Sunday School 
entertainment in the evening. 
Tuesday we continued our journey down 
the mountain. As some of us thought we 
had more strength than courage, we pre-
ferred walking down the steep hills.  
Tuesday evening we arrived home, tired 
from having traveled 160 miles over moun-
tain roads in six days, besides having 
attended eight meetings. The colonies in 
the country being so widely separated, and 
all traveling having to be done by team, 
makes the visiting of the different associ-
ations very laborious.
MARY B. EYRING.
EUNICE S. HARRIS.


NOTES AND NEWS
	The Michigan Woman's Press Associa-
tion in annual convention, last month,
passed resolutions in behalf of the suppres-
sion of child labor and commended the
action of the Detroit local Council of
Women and other women’s organizations
throughout the State in establishing play
grounds for the children, of the respective
cities.
	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland, sister of
ex-President Cleveland, now owns about
one-half of 700-Acre Island near Islesboro,
Me., having within a few days acquired an
additional tract of land. Miss Cleveland
has about 800 chickens, a large herd of
cows and a big vegetable garden on her
island, where she raises prize pumpkins, fat
chickens and prime dairy butter. She
handles the affairs herself, and employs a
big crew of men. There is but one other
cottage on the island.
	Mrs. Elizabeth A. Reed President of the
Illinois Woman’s Press Association, is
author of a work on Hindu Literature,
Persian Literature and Buddhism. Her
book has won the recognition of orientalists
aud savants in this country and abroad, and
she has been made a member of the Philo-
sophical Society of Great Britain and of the
International Congress of Orientalists, in
honor thereof. Mrs. Reed’s daughter,
Miss Myrtle Reed, is author of “Love Let-
ters of a Musician,” “The Spinster
Book,” and numerous short stories and
poems. A new book, “Lavender and Old
Lace,” is now in press for publication.
	President Roosevelt preached a little ser-
mon to fathers and mothers at Waterville,
Me. He said “Every father of a large
family—and being an old-fashioned man I
believe in large families—knows that if he
has to do well by his children he must do
well by himself. Now, haven’t you in
your own experience known men—and I
am sorry to say, even more often women—
who think that they are doing a favor to
their children when they shield them from
any effort ? When they let the girls sit at
ease and read, while the mother does all the
housework ? Don’t you know cases like
that I do. Yes, and when a boy will be
brought up to be very ornamental and not
useful ? Don’t you know that, too ? Now
these are not good fathers and mothers.
They are foolish fathers and mothers. They
are not kind; they are simply silly."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOUNT HOOD.
		ELLIS R SHIPP.

Near where the famous old Columbia flows,
Enclothed for aye in everlasting snows
Stands rugged old Mount Hood, with towering
	peak,
Where morning sunbeams now play hide and seek,
Golden rays reflecting myriad colored light,
More bright than stars or diamonds glint at night.
On craggy cliffs, or fathomless ravine,
Not man, but thou, Oh Sun ! with light serene.
Can penetrate, and delve, and then return again—
Yet tellest not wh[-]t thou hast seen to men.

Thou icy Hood ! What freak hath placed you here
So high, so rough, so bleack, so cold and drear;
With crevice, gulch, and rugged steep on high;
With dizzy height beyond the human eye,
With shelving rocks and dangerous abyss,
With instant death if feet should go amiss!
Was it to tempt the vain and venturous mind
At thy tall summit, laurels bright to find ?
To make for poet's pens unending theme ?
Or, better still, show power of One Supreme ?

Ah, thou art king of glaciers round about,
Though other Mounts have ermine banners out,
While "Lost Lake" too, so quiet and alone,
Hath hid herself beyond thy towering throne.
In majesty thou reignest monarch here,
Above the clouds into the sky so clear
Thy towers and spires and pinnacles retreat,
Thou seemest to bring the moon low at thy feet,
Art thou, like me, ambitious, too to gain
A dwelling place, in heaven's vast domain ?

MOUNT HOOD, OREGON, 
.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
October 17 a business meeting was held.
Arrangements for the annual meeting were 
made. 
September. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
an honorary member, died.
		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, the founder of
the club its president for four years and
honorary president for life, was born in
New England, February 29, 1828, at
Petersham, Worcester County, Mass. Mrs.
Wells’ forefathers were of pure English ex-
traction on both her father’s and mother’s
side. Some of them fought in the revolu-
tion, others in the war of 1812, and some
of her brothers and relatives in the Civil
War. In November, 1841, the subject of
our sketch heard the Gospel tidings, and
was baptized on March, 1, 1842, which
changed the whole current of her life,
causing her to leave the green New
England hills for a home in the West, and
finally reaching the Salt Lake valley, then
a desert. Teaching for a livelihood oc-
cupied some of her earlier years, after the
present commonwealth was established.
The gift of song and poesy was more fully
developed as the necessity for that struggle
diminished.
Before she became editor of the EXPON-
ENT many articles from her pen ap-
peared in its columns. She has also pub-
lished a book of poems, “Musings and
Memories,” containing many gems of
thought and inspiration.
A book of stories she has also contri-
buted for the edification of many readers,
and the ennobling of her own sex, as well
as all the children of God.
Susa Y. Gates is still in the lead of
thought and is a bright, intelligent writer;
forcible, poetic and richly imaginative and
will yet come out in still deeper characters,
the name and fame she has achieved.
Romania B Pratt still wields the pen,

[Column 2]
more perhaps in the cause of science than
formerly, but devotes time to literary
fields, wherein she is no stranger.
	Ellis R. Shipp still charms us with her
sweet poetry which touches the heart softly,
tenderly, like ripples on a placid lake.
Heart throbs often born of inspiration are
clearly discerned in her writings, which
flow frequently from her pen.
L L.Greene Richards while not being so
closely associated with us as formerly, is
still working in the field of literature and
often a poem of rare merit or an article of
piety and discipline appears over her
name.
	Julia A. McDonald has passed away
loved and regretted.
	Lucy A. Clark is still active in literary
pursuits, her powers of thought and ex-
pression have deepened and strengthened
with the years.
	Ruth M. Fox has bloomed from a bud of
promise to the flower of mature thought,
embellished by a flight of imagination that
is truly wonderful. She has grown in
sweetness and experience and is one of the
busiest women of the Press Club staff.
	And what shall we say of others more
or less gifted, laboring along in our ranks?
Of these, Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, has just
published a book, Miss Bertha Anderson
a book of poems and Mrs. L. D. Alder a
booklet descriptive of sunny California and
the visit of the Mormon Tabernacle choir
to that land of flowers and gold. Miss
Josephine Spencer, who published “The
Senator from Utah,” is engaged on the
Deseret News staff yet finds time to write
some charming things, other books are in
contemplation, may they soon gladden the
eyes of the Press Club as well as their 
friends. 
Still all the beautiful things have not
been written, the world of thought opens
wider and wider as we advance step by
step and behold the wonders contained
therein. Then my comrades of that world
press on and on, brighter grows the
way, companions, crowding to us on all
sides the road is onward and upward that
leads to our Father God, the fount of all 
knowledge, inspiration, immortality and
eternal life.
Come Inspiration, flame divine,
My thoughts attune, thy fervor lend,
Unveil the past, o’er the future shine.
Ah ! Memory come, be thou my friend.
World of thought, thy bounds unknown
Intensify with kindled fire, 
All who advance toward thy throne,
Thy crown bestow, grant their desire.
LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
HINTS TO HOUSEKEEPERS
HOW TO MAKE A MATTRESS

	Can any one lie down at night on a clean
comfortable bed without a feeling of thank-
fulness ?
	Where a family is large and money is
scarce it is a question how to provide so 
many beds	If you buy cheap mattresses
they are filled with old clothes and not al-
ways clean ones, and the writer has even
seen pieces of old shoes, cut fine, emptied
out with the other rubbish with which the
bed was filled.		Here is a good way to 
make a new mattress out of old things.
	Bring together all old quilts (better if
they are stuffed with wool batting) too old
to be longer repaired; cut them into several
strips, that they may the more easily be
washed.	Wash them clean.	Have ready
[Column 2]

[Column 2]
a good, strong covering, which if you are
fortunate enough you may buy for a nickle
a yard, if you can find some strong yellow
or pink duck, as I did, which, on account
of its color was almost unsaleable. Make
this cover four and a half yards long, and
two strips and a half wide, if the goods is
twenty-seven inches wide. Lay your old
pieces of quilts smoothly on one half of the
outside, and all old, cast off woolen clothes,
which are not good for any other purpose,
after your patchwork and carpet rags have
all been taken out, old woolen stockings,
fascinators, men’s clothing washed clean,
etc., pile them up smoothly until quite
thick, then bring the other half of the out-
side over them, baste along the sides and
end, take a sacking needle and strong twine
and tie closely together. If you wish you
can cover this with a loose covering not
tied down, but only sewed together. This
top cover can easily be removed and washed
and will save the trouble of taking the mat-
tress to pieces to cleanse it.
	A quilt of fine chute factory and two or
three pounds of batting makes a good
covering for feather beds, where one has
small children, and can easily be washed
and even boiled.
TO CURE SUMMER COMPLAINT.
	When I read of a child dying of summer
complaint or dysentery, I always think that
its life might have been spared.
	In the first place, keep the babies clean,
and do not overfeed them, neither let them
get too hungry. Wash and boil all diapers
and rinse them carefully, not using too
much bluing, if any; hang in the sun if
possible. If with all all your care they are
sick, here is a receipt with which hundreds
of children have been cured when all else
has failed.
	Take a handful of garden sage, the same -
of rasberry leaves, half an ounce of rhu-
barb, as much anise seed as rhubarb, a tea-
spoonful of ginger, one of bayberry bark,
a half teaspoonful of golden seal, one of
magnesia, steep all together slowly, not
boiling, but simmering. The water should
be boiling hard when you pour it on.
After simmering for one hour in a pint of
water, strain into a quart or larger vessel
with one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and
half as much soda, stir, let it thoroughly
ferment until it quits bubbling and settles.
If there is a scum rises, skim it off until it
is clear, drain off carefully or strain again,
add enough sugar to make a good syrup,
boil gently until a little thick. When it is
cold add enough peppermint to give a
pleasant flavor.
	Most children can take this when they
cannot take the rhubarb fixed any other
way. The soda removes the unpleasant
odor and taste, and some children like it.
Put it in a bottle and keep corked tight,
when not in use, and keep in a cool place
and dark if you can. Make it often as it
easily molds and is better fresh made.  If
child or adult has dysentery, give to a small
child a half or whole teaspoonful every
hour, when awake, but never awaken any-
one to give them medicine. To a grown
person give a teaspoonful every hour. It
is good for feeble old people, for babies and
anyone who has a weak stomach, and has
cured indigestion and dyspepsia when taken
regularly for awhile. If teething ch ldren
have summer complaint put a soft flannel
band around their bowels.
Your loving auntie,
		B. R.


36							WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS. Editor and Publisher.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten linesof nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS.
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah. as
econd-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBEER 1 & 15, 1902


OFFICERS AND GENERAL BOARD.
OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH
OF  JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, General President
Annie T. Hyde, First Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry, Second Counselor Emmeline
B.Wells, General Secretary; Clarissa S.
Williams, General Treasurer.
	Presidents Jane S. Richards, Sarah J.
Cannon, M. Isabella Horne—Romania B.
Pratt, Susan Grant, Martha A. Cannon,
Emma S. Woodruff, Julina L. Smith, Emily
S. Richards, Ellis R. Shipp, Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Phebe
Young Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice
Merrill Horne, Annie Wells Cannon, Pris-
cilla P. Jennings, Margaret A Caine.
	Missionaries: — Harriet Ann Badger,
Sophia T. Nuttall, Mary T. Smith, Rebec-
ca E. Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mary A.
C. Lambert, Leilia Merrill Allen.


[Column 1]
THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.
Dedication of Relief Society Stake House
WEBER STAKE OF ZION. : 
JULY 19, 1902.
(Conclusion.)
	Afternoon session, President Jane S.
Richards presiding. On the stand were
many veteran brethren and sisters
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let
us rejoice in the day of Salvation.” Prayer
by President L. W. Shurtliff. Singing,
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.”
	The speakers of the afternoon were
President Jane S. Richards, who gave a
little sketch of the thought and purpose of
the building, and alluded feelingly to those
who had assisted with means and encourage-
ment; mentioned in this connection the
liberality of Brother D. H. Perry, (since
departed) his generous gift, and that of his
wife afterwards, and Bishop Bernard
White, who had given the land, spoke
beautifully of Mrs. Fred Kiesel, who,
though not a “Mormon” had noticed Mrs.
Richards ministering to all in need of all
faiths, or no faith, and thanked all who
had in any way contributed towards
the erection of the hall and its furnishing.
	During the afternoon a check was re-
ceived by Mrs. Richards from a friend, of one
hundred dollars, and a modest tribute was
paid to Brothers F. S. and C. C. Richards,
who had given so liberally. Sister Richards
stated that a telegram of congratulations 
had been received from Franklin S. Rich-

[Column 2]
ards and his wife, who are on a visit in
California.
	Too much cannot be said in praise of the
labors of this energetic, devout and far-
seeing President of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion. Sister Richards de-
serves the fullest appreciation of the people
among whom she has labored so industri-
ously and diligently. Assuredly she has
fulfilled Solomon’s words, “She stretcheth
out her hand to the poor, she reacheth
forth her hand to the needy;” and all must
admit “her own works praise her within
the gates.”
	Sister Richards referred lovingly to the
sisters who had cooporated with her in her
labors in the Stake and gave due credit to
the efforts made by them in helping on
the building. The hall stands a landmark,
a monument for the future of the self-
sacrifice and noble courage of the sisters in
attempting such an undertaking without
money in the treasury.
	President M. I. Horne, of Salt Lake
Stake, and Sarah J. Cannon, her first
counselor, Mary E. Lightner, of Miners-
ville, one of the oldest members in the
Church and a powerful speaker, Annie T.
Hyde, First Counselor in the General
Relief Society, Emmeline B. Wells General
Secretary in the Relief Soeiety, and Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith, of the General
Relief Society were the other sisters who
made brief remarks upon the great work of
the society organized by the Prophet Joseph
so long ago, and its rapid advancement
since that period, commending the labors
of Sister Richards both as a presiding
officer for twenty-five years and her ex-
ecutive ability in managing affairs, and in
the building of the first Relief Society
Stake House
	President John R. Winder, Patriarch
John Smith, Bishop McKay of Huntsville,
Bishop Bernard White and some other
elderly brethren made brief remarks, there
was some fine music by young lady sing-
ers and altogether the exercises of the day
were harmoniously in keeping with the
spirit of the Latter-day work. At the
close the Doxology was sung by the con-
gregation, and the benediction was pro-
nounced by President John R. Winder.


A BOOK FOR THE HOLIDAYS.
Eleven years ago and more, the writer
obtained the copyright of a book of stories
she had written for publication. Circum-
stances prevented bringing out the book at
the time, and although repeated efforts
to publish have been made since none have
succeeded. The writer has now decided to
publish by subscription if a sufficient num-
ber of persons can be secured who are will-
ing to pay beforehand, so as to give the
publishers a guarantee to undertake the
work. The book will be entitled “Aunt
Em’s Stories of Long Ago.” It will con-
tain “Hephzibah,” which caused quite a
sensation when it appeared as a serial in
1889’ “Aunt Esther’s Sweetheart,” “Some
Old Love Letters,” “He Cometh Not,”
and other short stories. The stories are all
founded upon facts—of course the names
are fictitious, necessarily.
	Any one desiring further particulars may
obtain them by writing to this office. If
possible to raise the money the book will
be on sale at Christmas and during the
holidays. Any money taken in will be
receipted for and returned if the book is not
issued.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

	The Utah Society of the Daughters of
the Revolution were entertained in Septem-
ber (the 17th) at the home of Mrs. Lewis
M. Cannon. The rooms were prettily dec-
orated for the occasion with the Colonial
colors in which the gorgeous sunflowers
were most conspicuous, the blue vases and
bowls taking the second piece in the dis-
play.
	The meeting was a very interesting one,
the first after the adjournment during the hot
weather, and, in fact, the first with the new
officers. The paper was by Mrs. Isabel M.
W. Sears and treated of that period of the
Revolution, events of 1778-1779. “The
alliance of France. Proposals of peace
made by England. Battle of Monmouth.
Attack of Newport. French fleet sails to
West Indies. English occupy Savannah.
Massacre of Wyoming and Cherry Valleys.
British capture Augusta. Siege of Savan-
nah. Recapture of Stony Point. Paul
Jones and U. S. Navy.”
	The paper was read by Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith, as Mrs. Sears could not be present.
The Paul Jones and United States navy
portions were freely discussed and com-
mented upon, and extracts will be published
in this paper later on.
	After the meeting adjourned the conver-
sation became general and chocolate, cream
and delicious dainties were served and a
delightful time enjoyed by the members
and guests present.

	October 16 the Utah Society was enter-
tained by Mrs. Myra Y. Rossiter and a
delightful afternoon was spent. The ele-
gant parlors were festooned with flags and
everywhere the stars and strips and colonial
colors were in evidence. Autumn flowers
in abundance were used in decorating.
	The paper was by Mrs. Caroline Y. Can-
non and was read by her daughter, Mrs.
Willard T. Cannon.
	The paper contained, events of 1780-
1781. “Siege of Charleston. Battle of
Camden. Exploits of Marion, Sumpter,
Lee and Pickens. Battle of King’s Moun-
tain. Treason of Arnold. Battle of Cow-
pens. Green’s retreat through the Caro-
linas. Battle of Guilford Court House.
Siege of Yorktown. Close of the war.”
	After the reading of the paper some com-
ments were made, all complimentary to the
writer and reader. Mrs. Julia F. Lund
related what she had heard in Philadelphia
concerning Mrs. Arnold’s ignorance of her
husband’s treachery. It is said of her that
she would have remained in the United
States but for the intense bitterness which
it was thought might result disastrously; on
that account she was induced to leave her
home and friends.
Delicious refreshments, ices, etc., were
served, and the usual enlivening conversa-
tion indulged in, and the guests and mem-
bers of the society enjoyed a pleasant hour
of intellectual recreation.


A WORK OF ART.
	By courtesy of Miss Ada Patterson we
have received the new book recently issued,
entitled “By the Stage Door.” The book
is very handsomely bound and the entire
work is done in the latest style, typograph-
ically, and taken as a whole, is artistic.
	Miss Ada Patterson and Miss Victory
Bateman collaborated in preparing it for the
press, and the book bears the two names,


‘‘Patterson-Bateman.” The Introduction
is by Annie A. Adams, well and popularly
known in Utah, though now a resident of 
New York City. In closing she says: “I
recommend this book to every seeker after
knowledge of the stage, and to every
student of character, be he such a seeker or
not.”
	The opening is with a singularly beauti-
ful poem called “Life,” by Victory Bate-
man.
	The contents are ‘‘The Story of a Friend-
ship,” ‘‘Autobiography of an Actress,”
‘‘The Passing of the ‘Leading Lady,’ ”
‘‘Her One Superstition,” Grimston’s
School of Acting,” ‘‘A Triumph of Tem-
perament,” ‘‘He Married an Actress,”
‘‘The Understudy,” “Heard at the Manag-
er’s Club,” “An Early Jump,” “Three
Friends.”
	After a cursory perusal of the book one
feels how much temptation lies in the way
of those who make the stage a profession.
There are many passages of striking merit
in the sketches, and truths portrayed that
touch the heart with strong emotions of
tenderness and sweet sympathy. The
mother who reads the pages would almost
invariably say, “The stage is not for my
daughter or my child,”—son or daughter.
	There is a great deal of character study
in the work, it is a book to make one think
deeply. It might easily be called a psychol-
ogical srudy, and we cannot help repeating
here, it is indeed a work of art. There is
great depth of meaning, there is uncommon
talent and such tact displayed in making a
harmonious whole as one seldom finds in a
book of short stories. The language is
delicate and refined and one need not be
afraid to trust the reading of it to an inno-
cent, inexperienced girl; in fact the book is
good enough, in language and sentiment,
and sufficiently beautiful in outward appear-
ance to be placed on the drawing robm table
in any home, be it cottage or palatial man-
sion.
	These young ladies who have made a
first venture into the world of books are to be
congratulated on the merits of their literary
work, and let us hope the financial results
will be as satisfactory as the literary and
artistic work is genuine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE

	The General Relief Society Conference
was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
in this city, commencing at 2 p. m. on
Tuesday, October 7, 1902, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith presiding.
	Counselors Annie T. Hyde and Ida
Smoot Dusenberry, Secretary Emmeline B.
Wells and Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams
were on the stand,also President Jane S. Rich-
ards of Weber Stake, President M. I. Horne
of Salt Lake Stake, and her counselor, Sarah
Jenne Cannon, President Susan Grant of
Davis Stake, and many other presidents
and representatives of Stakes and a num-
ber of prominent sisters occupied seats on
the platform.
	Meeting opened by members of the
Temple choir singing “Our God we raise to
Thee,” Prof. C. J. Thomas leader. Prayer
was offered by Sister Susan Grant. Sing-
ing, trio, “My God the spring of all my
joys.” All the General Officers were pres-
ent and thirteen members of the General
Board, forty-three Stakes responded to roll
call. Brief minutes of the morning session

[Column 2]
of the April Conference were read and
approved.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith gave the
opening address, said she was delighted to
see so many assembled in conference; felt
she would like to know all the presidents
in the Stakes and in the wards, but could
not visit much on account of time,
because her calling was in the Temple; she
had been associated in that work ever since
she was a young girl, as it were, in this
and other Temples. ‘‘I want to bear testi-
mony to you that Joseph Smith introduced
the endowments, he taught us these things
and I received the ordinances during his
lifetime in Nauvoo. I attended every
meeting afterwards as long as he lived; the
same ordinances were given in the Nauvoo
Temple after the death of Joseph the
Prophet. I had the privilege of administer-
ing there, and for many years in the En-
dowment House in this city and in other
Temples here, and in this Temple now
nearly ten years, and that seems to be my
calling, and therefore I cannot visit very
much among the sisters, as this is more my
work than anything else. We have had a
grand conference and many great and good
teachings, and nothing has struck me more
forcibly than the converting of the Indians.
I have great sympathy for them; I let my
only son go to preach life and salvation to
them and he lost his life; and I believe he
is preaching to them yet in the spirit world;
I often think about Moroni, he brought the
Book of Mormon, and if we could see him,
he would like to have us do a work for his
people. I feel this and I love to hear of the
labor among that people.” President Smith
told the sisters that forty-two Stakes had
been visited since last conference; she
wished the sisters to be united, to take
care of the sick and the needy and to attend
to all the duties of the society; and she
wished them to subscribe for the EXPO-
NENT and to help it along and to read it,
she had always done so; and she asked “the
blessing of the Lord upon the Relief Soci-
ety and all engaged in the good work of
redemption. Amen.”
	The treasurer then read the report of
money on hand for the Building and also
all money donated from the several Stakes
for membership, and expenditures for
traveling expenses and other pur-
poses for the use of the society. The
treasurer’s report was received and ap-
proved.
	The Stakes were called and reported as
follows:
	Alberta, by First Counselor Rhoda Hin-
man, who made a good report and men-
tioned the fact that the Stake had recently
been divided; she rejoiced in having this
opportunity to speak for the people of
Canada.
	Miss Amelia Carling, missionary from
the Northwestern States mission, spoke for
the branch of the Relief Society in Kansas
City, which had nineteen members.
The past year the sisters had by work
made $122,25, had spent part of it; she
felt proud to be connected with the society.
About a year ago Sisters S. J. Cannon and
A. T. Hyde had paid a visit to the Relief
Society branches in that mission and had
done a great deal of good.
	Sister Minnie K. Robinson reported the
Relief Society branches in the California
mission: in Sacramento there was a fine
society, in San Francisco they were wide
awake; at first they had an idea they

[Column 3]
must not do anything but work; thought
the sisters appreciated the meetings of the
society more than we do in Zion, in Los
Angelos the society is in working order
now, and in San Bernardino the meetings
have been discontinued, but may be re-
sumed again when there are more members
in the Church. Her report was very satis-
factory.
	Chicago was reported by Sister Charlotte
Estherbloom, first counselor in the Society
before coming to Salt Lake, said among
the two or three hundred members in the
Church there were many poor people that
had to be helped, and the society also
helped the Elders, she felt that they had
been blest. Every fall they had a bazar
and took in two or three hundred dollars,
all the sisters were interested in the work,
they were united in peace and harmony.
	Sister Lucy B. Young represented the
branches of the society in Germany, one in
Hamburg, one in Stettin and one in Berlin
She had been appointed to preside over
them but could not speak much to them in
their native tongue. Brother Loyd Wood-
ruff interpreted for her, and other Elders.
She urged the mothers to have their boys
know something concerning Relief Society
work, so that when upon missions they
would be able to render assistance to these
organizations out in the world. Com-
mended Sister Jane S. Richards for having
taken her boys to the sisters’ meetings.
Sister Young spoke highly of the German
sisters and their loyalty to the work of the
Lord and said how anxious they were to
learn, and become intelligent.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde reported
Union Stake, as there was no representative
present and she had recently visited the
conference in La Grande, Oregon, June 14.
Said it was a most beautiful country, they
did not have to irrigate the land, it was
wonderfully easy to raise their grain, etc.
The Saints there were trying to set a good
example, and they had a fine society, a
strong president, who had been in the
Relief Society work previously in Nephi,
and she seemed very capable and energetic;
thought they were likely to make rapid
improvement.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry re-
ported the branch of the society in New
York, there the younger girls seemed to
take quite an active part in the society,
after the testimony meeting, they have a
program and invite others to come in; they
have a number of strangers in their meet-
ing who seem interested and there is a
united feeling, hoped the Lord would bless
them in this work.
	Fremont Stake reported by First Counse-
lor Elizabeth Atkinson, who said: “I live
where we have babies in our meetings and
when we have them I believe we have
angels.” She gave an excellent report,
particularly concerning the grain.
	Juab Stake was reported by Counselor
Letitia Teasdale, said it had only been two
months organized, but the officers had
visited every branch, except one, and found
them in good condition. “We are united
with our Bishops and the presiding brethren,
and young and old are trying to do all they
can towards the accomplishment of the
Lord’s work. We have spoken about the
saving of grain, and feel that a greater
interest is being awakened in this and other
important things.
	Sister Annie C. Layton responded to the
call for St. Joseph Stake, said the president


[Column 1]
had asked her to report, or at least to
answer to the roll call; she felt that in
that far off place the sisters labored under
many difficulties not realized by those who
were in localities where there were many
greater advantages; she felt great embar-
rassment in attempting to report the soci-
ety, felt sure the sisters in St Joseph Stake
were trying to do right, and they have an
energetic president.
	San Luis Stake reported by the secretary,
Sister Mary F. Crowther. “We live a long
way off; we would like to have the sisters visit
us; we have a good Relief Society hall, the
only public building there is there, three
wards out of five have their own house to
meet in. Our Young Ladies’ Association
put an organ in our hall, we all meet in it.
We have our grain in the tithing granary,
but we intend having a granary of our
own. The Lord has blessed us greatly in
that land. We had a visit from Sister E.
B. Wells and Sister Minnie J. Snow three
years ago, and we had a delightful time.”
	San Juan Stake reported by Sister Pris-
cilla Warner, of Moab. “Our Stake is very
remote, we have to travel four hundred
miles by team, it is very laborious; our
president, Sister Hammond, is a very faith-
ful woman. I think our sisters are all try-
ing to do all they possibly can; we labor
under many difficulties but we want to do
our duty and keep the commandments of
God.”
	Uintah Stake reported by Sister Sarah
M. Smith, Colton. “We are a long way off,
it seems we have very few advantages, and
we have to trust in the Lord and depend
upon His assistance; we are united and
things are moving on, and I think some
little progress is being made; we had a
visit this summer from the sisters, which
was a great blessing; two years ago we
had the sisters, and we do appreciate them
in this out of the way place.”
	President Julia A. Richards, who had
only recently been called to preside in
Malad Stake, said they were determined to
do their duty and to be in harmony with
the priesthood and keep up with organiza-
tions in the other Stakes of Zion, felt very
great need of encouragement in her labors,
etc.
	President M. Isabella Horne said she felt
greatly exercised because of the drouth all
over the country, and thought if we didn’t
have a famine among ourselves, we want
to and ought to have wheat on hand any
way to assist those who will be in need,
and not keep the money; she had spoken
over and over to the sisters to buy wheat
with their money instead of putting it in
the bank, for what good would money do
when scarcity came; spoke of Heber C.
Kimball’s prophecies in regard to these
things; she thought all the branches in
this Stake were in good order, even the
new ones organized since the Stake had
been divided; she held officers’ meeting
once a month and therefore knew the cir-
cumstances of each society pretty well;
some sisters do not identify themselves
with the society, but thought these times
would stir up the people to greater diligence.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, was glad of the sisters visiting them
and among the people; until last sum-
mer, a year ago, they had been a long time
without being visited from headquarters,
this last summer they had been visited
again and it had a good effect. She had
been making a long trip recently into the

[Column 2]
White River country and found in those
isolated places the people were trying to
live their religion They depended on the
land for their living. Many young people
had married and gone into that country to
make themselves homes and the Lord had
blessed them. Spoke of the good spirit
prevailing among those who were striving
to serve the Lord.
	Conference adjourned until 7 p. m.
Singing, “My God, the spring of all my
joys.” Benediction by Elder C. J. Thomas.

	Evening session, Tuesday, October 7,
1902, President Bathsheba W. Smith pre-
siding.
	Singing, “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Prayer by President Jane S. Richards.
Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet,”
	Benson Stake reported by the president,
Rebecca Rawlins. Reported they had
visited their Stake and found all right
among the sisters; in regard to mothers’
classes “we decided to make up a pro-
gram and unite with the three associations
and hold conjoint meetings.”
	Counselor Anna Bayliss, Parowan Stake.
“We have five branches, we hold semi-
monthly meetings and feel much good has
been accomplished. We have had much
sickness this year. Sister Ollerton, our
president, is an excellent woman and very
much beloved.”
	Counselor Alvira E. Steele, Bingham
Stake, reported 28 branches, spoke very
highly of the president, Sister E. J. Ben-
nett, also said there was a lot of good sis-
ters. Most of the branches own a city lot,
one branch owns its own house “We are
united and want to have our sisters visit us
and I hope we will have sufficient means,
will do our utmost to get the sisters to
attend the nurses’ class.”
	Star Valley reported by Sister Charlotte
Allred, who said it inspired her with new
life to see our dearly beloved sisters; “we
are trying to do our best, and I feel our
sisters are in pretty good condition,” etc.
	Counselor Lucy Parkinson represented
Oneida Stake. Said, “Our sisters are dili-
gent in the storing of grain, the secretaries’
reports in our Stake are excellent, we have
a very able president and we hope to help
in the work and be in harmony with those
who preside.”
	President Mary E. Howell spoke for
Hyrum Stake. “We have over 4,000
bushels of grain, we are united with the
president of our Stake. We had a visit
from Sister Hyde and Sister Freeze, and
were very glad of the good things they told
us, felt benefited thereby. We think the
mothers’ classes will be very beneficial.
We want to keep up with all the require-
ments made upon us. We want to send
some sisters to study nursing.”
	President Jane S. Richards was glad to
feel so much of the good spirit. Refering
to Weber Stake, she said, “We are trying to
instil faith into the minds of the young,
many sick have been saved by prayer.
We need to love each other and give kindly
aid, there are so many worldly things
around and we are only here for a little
while and we want to do all we can while
we have the opportunity. We have built a
Relief Society Stake house and we have not
neglected the sick or needy, but have kept
up our donations for these things and have
not gone into debt; the house cost about
$5,000, and it is not in any way extrava-

[Column 3]
gant, it is neat and plain. We have no
heat or light in it yet, but we expect to fix
for that before we need it The Y. L. and
P. A. meet in it as well as the Relief
Society, it is for all three. We have some
pictures on the walls—Joseph the Prophet,
Brigham Young, John Taylor, Sister Eliza,
Aunt Zina,. Sister Bathsheba and some
others. We had our house dedicated last
summer, the brethren came up and some of
the sisters. President J. R. Winder and
Patriarch John Smith were with us and we
had it dedicated on the anniversary of the
day that President Young was in Ogden
and established the sisters’ quarterly confer-
ences. There were other brethren and
sisters there, those who have gone before
us, let us live so that we can join them in
the spirit world. Let us reach out a help-
ing hand to those who are weak and way-
ward. It is terrible to know that the chil-
dren of the Saints should incline to go
astray ! If we can persuade them to turn
around what a satisfaction it would be!
Working for the dead is glorious, but they
have not had the Gospel and rejected it.
Let us be charitable and forgiving and
seek to save the erring.”
	Counselor Lavinia Bates reported Cassia
Stake, said they had not yet had mothers’
classes but were trying to do all they could
to keep up with the other organizations in
caring for the needy, saving grain and all
good works.
	President Elizabeth DeLong, Panguitch
Stake, said, “We will send all the
sisters we can to the nurses’ class. We
have visited our Stake once this summer
and have started a mothers’ class;” told of
other good works.
	President Lucy S. Cardon Cache Stake.
“Since the Stake has been divided it has
made some difference about the grain. I
know it is the grain we want and not the
money. We are advocating the nurses’
class and working it up and want to con-
vert the mothers.”
	Counselor Dorcas Worthington repre-
sented Tooele Stake. “Our president,
Sister Emily J. Anderson, could not come
she is a very efficient woman and wishes to
do all in her power to assist in every good
cause,” etc.
	Alvira L. Cox, president of South San-
pete Stake. “All our Stake has been visited
during the last three months, we have
talked about sending nurses and will try to
have some come and be trained. We have
had the grasshoppers this year, as you all
know, yet we have done well with our
grain in Manti. In Manti North Ward we
have a very fine building, we know what it
is to build with very little means ” Ex-
plained in detail the grasshopper ravages
and also spoke of the grain saving, lending,
etc.
	Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry, counselor
in the General Society, addressed the meet-
ing for a short time, urged young women
to become acquainted with Relief Society
work. Spoke of their considering it an
ordeal to attend the meetings, thought the
day was far past that these meetings should
be just for old ladies. Talked of the
benefits of mothers’ classes, and felt if there
were any mothers not converted to the idea
they were the ones who should be called
upon and culled into the work. Knew
there was always time to dress twelve chil-
dren in the morning and get out to a circus
parade. Get the mothers out to these
mothers’ meetings, habit is a very great


[Column 1]
deal in many homes, it is comparatively
easy to do the things which have become a
habit. Made other appropriate remarks
and related incidents bearing upon this
subject.
	President Susan Grant, Davis Stake,
thought we should seek the inspiration of
the Holy Spirit, and try to be in touch
with all the branches in the respective
Stakes and see that they were doing their
duty in every respect; that was what she
was trying to do in her Stake, and to be
united with the Bishops and presiding
brethren. She felt they enjoyed the Spirit
of the Lord in their meetings and con-
ferences.
	Sister Emma A. Empey, superintendent
of the nurses’ classes, spoke upon that sub-
ject at some length. Said it required eight
months (the fee $10.00) to take the course
of training, and the extra course for obstet-
rics six months would be $40.00. Explained
the system thoroughly, told what good
work the nurses from Dr. Roberts previous
classes were doing, and that they were
sought after by the doctors because of their
skill and ability, etc. Gave an excellent
idea of the situation and the watch care
that would be over them while here in the
city engaged in their studies.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie, secretary and
treasurer of the nurses’ classes, spoke of
the privileges these young women would
have of attending the missionary course,
organ recitals in the Tabernacle, and other
things that would be educational. Alluded
to the opinion of the Bishops in the several
wards concerning these nurses, the great
blessing it was to have such help in times
of need, “they were like angels.” Said
those who had charge would see that these
sisters who come for this purpose had good
homes while here, Dr. Roberts would help
in this matter and they would have good
advice.
	Elder L. John Nuttall spoke a short
time in praise of the Relief Society work,
of Sister Smith conducting the conference
after the same plan as the General conference
had been in calling on presidents of Stakes to
report. Felt we needed more than one day
to hear from all and give instruction.
Wanted the sisters to go back to their
homes and take the counsel back with them
to others, and the spirit of the conference.
Brother Nuttall was anxious to render any
assistance possible to the society. He had
been among the sisters of the society in
Stakes and Wards, was interested in all
their work, wanted to see them advance
and blessed them in the name of the Lord.
	Pocatello Stake reported by Counselor
Matilda Smith, who told of the good work
being done there. Mothers’ meetings had
been organized and great interest manifested
in that and other lines of work.
	President Mary A. Sorenson gave a most
excellent report of Emery Stake, spoke in
high terms of praise of the late presi-
dent, Sister Annie U. Larsen, and felt she
would like to do as well as she had done,
thought many of the sisters in the confer-
ence would remember her. Gave some par-
ticulars about their grain and said she was
desirous of having more grain saved this
season. She hoped to be up and doing
with all associated with her, not found be-
hind in any good work.
	President Rebecca Standring, of Alpine
Stake, not being present, the secretary,
Sister Emmn Featherstone, reported. She
said: “We have mothers’ and daughters’

[Column 2]
meetings and they preside alternately, they
generally try to get a good lecturer to ad-
dress them and the meetings are well
attended and all go forth in their work with
joy and rejoicing.
	President George C. Parkinson, of Oneida
Stake, said he had enjoyed being present
and meeting the noble-souled sisters en-
gaged in this glorious work. Said there
are good sisters in Oneida Stake, they
travel around and do a great amount of
good in saving grain and helping in every
way, are always on hand to bless and com-
fort and are indeed a source of relief.
“Now, we have here our beloved Sister
Bathsheba, 80 years of age, she has been
faithful all the day long from the beginning
of this society, Sister Richards, nearly 80
and others; these good sisters’ labors
cannot be told in words. I endorse Brother
Nuttall when he said our good works will
show throughout the entire world; God is
the Author; mothers are the noblest souls,
providing tabernacles for the sons of men,
who will go forward and carry on this
work. It is your sons and your daughters
who will have the responsibility in the
future. Go to your homes with the spirit
of this mission upon you. God bless you;
God bless Sister Smith and lengthen out
her days with those associated with her in
this society and in the work of the Lord.
Amen.”
	President B. W. Smith said: “There are
a good many more we would like to hear
from, but the time is gone and we must
close our meeting.”
	Singing, Doxology. Prayer was offered
by President James E. Steele, of Bingham
Stake. Conference adjourned until next
April, 1903.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	INTERNATIONAL DECLARATION.

	Last winter at the International Confer-
ence, a committee was appointed to draft a
Declaration of Principles which would
express the faith of the woman suffragists
throughout the world. This committee
was unable to complete the report, and
another committee was appointed, consist-
ing of the officers of the International Com-
mittee. The new committee was instructed
to draft a Declaration of Principles and to
submit them to the delegates to the Inter-
national Conference for approval. This
has now been done, and the Declaration of
Principles has been drawn up and signed.

	DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.

	We, the men and women assembled in
the First International Woman Suffrage
Conference, held in Washington, U. S. A.,
February 12-18, 1902, do hereby declare
our faith in the following principles:
	1. That men and women are born equally
free and independent members of the human
race: equally endowed with talents and
intelligence, and equally entitled to the free
exercise of their individual rights and
liberty.
	2. That the natural relation of the sexes
is that of interdependence and co-operation,
and that a repression of the rights of one
inevitably works injury to the other and to
the whole race.
	3. That in all lands, those laws, creeds
and customs which have tended to restrict
women to a position of dependence, to dis-
courage their mental training, to repress
the development of their natural gifts and

[Column 2]
to subordinate their individuality, have
been based upon false theories, and have
produced an artificial and unjust relation to
the sexes in modern society.
	4. That self-government in the home and
State should be the inalienable right of
every normal adult, and in consequence no
individual woman can “owe obedience’’ to
any individual man as prescribed by old
marriage forms, nor can women as a whole 
owe obedience to men as a whole, as pre-
scribed by modern governments.
	5. That the refusal to recognize women
as individual members of society, entitled
to the right of self-government, has resulted
in social, legal and economic injustice to
them, and has intensified the existing
economic disturbances throughout the
world.
	6. The governments which impose taxes
and laws upon their women citizens with-
out giving the right of consent, or dissent,
which is granted to men citizens, exercise a
tyranny inconsistent with just government.
	7. That the ballot is the only legal and
permanent means of defending the rights to
“life, liberty and pursuit of happiness”
pronounced inalienable by the American
Declaration of Independence, and accepted
as inalienable by all civilizations; therefore,
women should be vested with all rights and
privileges of electors in a representative
form of government.
	8. That the rapidly developing intellect
of women, resulting from new educational
opportunities, and the important position
in the economic world into which women
have been forced by the commercial changes
of the last half-century, call for the imme-
diate consideration of this problem by the
nations of the world.

SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Chairman, United
	States.
	VIDA GOLDSTEIN, Secretary, Australia.
	FLORENCE FENWICK MILLER, England.
	ANTONIE STOLLLE, Germany. 
	EMMA EVALD, Sweden.
	CAROLINE HOLEMAN HUIDOBRO, Chile.
	GUDRUN DREWSEN, Norway.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, United States.
	ANNA H. SHAW, United States.
	CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, United States.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY.

	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]

(Continued.)

	The king is a very friendly man, agree-
able in conversation. Is pleased with the
American Elders because of their industri-
ous habits. He prides himself in doing
more work than other native man. He is
subject in his official capacity to the French
Governor.
	Today heard the news of the Tahitian
lady’s marriage to the king’s son, much to
the father’s displeasure. She had previous-
ly made an engagement with the captain
whose ship is lying here, and had received
many presents from him; now she re-
nounced him and chose a younger man.
I wish all white men who make contracts
with those women may be treated in the
same manner.
	Today the Pilgrim sailed. Mr. Rich-
mond called to make his adieux, proposed
sending from Tahiti any thing we needed,
was certainly polite, he may be sincere,
although given to flattery more than I ad-


[Column 1]
mire. He is recognized as a tolorably cor-
rect man contrasted with the fearfully disso-
lute. He has been a faithful friend to
Paraita.
	After the forenoon services we were in-
vited to go on board the vessel and drink a
cup of chocolate. We had a long walk,
crossed several deep streams. The men
stripped their feet and carried the women
over. The sea was rough. We ran the
little boat on the reef, reached the vessel
with difficulty, which was rolling so much
Sister Crosby and myself began to be sea-
sick at once, so we could eat nothing. We
concluded it was great labor and little
pleasure.
	I have at length got a new cook house
and everything arranged in good order,
shall be more comfortable. Again have
sent off letters to the United States to in-
form our friends that we still live and
breathe outside of the habitable world; gaze
at the same sun and moon and some of the
constellations, but not all. The north star
we cannot see, the grand cross is in the
firmament over us. To the same God we
pray and invoke blessings on them.
	There is talk of a vessel being fitted up
to take passengers to California. The chil-
dren are elated at the bare idea, uncertain
as it may be. Mr. Grouard thinks his
wife will not go. The dread of sea sickness
would almost induce me to remain here.
	The 27th. Attended the morning ser-
vice in the House of Prayer. After the
close Hoatan, our fatherly chief, addressed
the people on the subject of changing the
Sabbath day, which has for a length of
time been kept one day earlier than in
other parts of the world, owing to the
reckoning of the missionaries in coming
around the Cape. The people appeared in-
different, would not express an opinion.
The old chief spoke with warmth. He
said, “When the dances were introduced
you were ready to speak and give your
sanction; when spirituous liquors were
brought here to make the people drunk
you are ready to welcome its reception; but
when the subject relating to the worship of
God is being agitated you are silent.”
	They, at length aroused, set to thinking
and voted to have it changed.
	This morning I was angry and showed
my resentment. I received an unjust re-
buke it was impossible for me to feel calm
over. I repaired to the ‘Fere Burera” and
translated a chapter in Tahiti, by which
time my mind became composed.
	The natives seem bent on keeping two
Sabbaths together. They say if they
throw away the Sabbath they have been
keeping some of them will be thrown away
by death, such is their superstition. By
degrees they will be persuaded. 
The 29th. We ate roast pig for break-
fast, sent us by our good old chief. This
afternoon have received a large eel, two
feet in length; they are very fine eating.
The sea abounds with luxuries, and the
land teems with good things,
	The 30th. This morning very early

[Column 2]
went out to the reef in a canoe. It was
calm and beautiful sailing. We raised a
small sail and a gentle breeze wafted us
along smoothly. The water was clear and
we could see distinctly the coral beneath,
which resembles a garden of pines and
shrubbery, beautiful to look upon. The
air was cool, and light clouds shielded us
from the sun’s scorching rays. We sailed
in and out among the coral to examine the
fishing nets. They are curiously woven
out of nets sunk to the bottom where the
water is shallow, the bait put inside. The
fish run through the small aperture and are
secured. Sometimes fish weighing twenty
pounds are taken. We could discover them
of all shapes and colors shooting about and
hiding in the cavities of the coral. We
stopped on an island of rocks, struck a fire
with wood we carried out, roasted fish and
made a hearty meal.

(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.

	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav- 
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also childrenwho are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
	JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. -
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier' -
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. .


Mrs. Alice M. Ruble, who has just been
nominated on the Democratic ticket for the
Colorado House of Representatives, has
lived in that State for thirty years. During
that time, it is said, she has made a host of
warm friends by her gracious, kind and
womanly bearing. She has held many
positions of honor and trust. She is secre-
tary of the Jane Jefferson Democratic Club,
has been secretary of the social science
department of the women’s club of Den-
ver, and has served on the board of directors
of the State Industrial School for Girls.
The scene was animated when Mrs. Ruble
was chosen in the Democratic  Convention
of Arapahoe county, Denver, and showed
how far it is from being true that women
receive less consideration when they have
votes. Eleven representatives were to be
nominated. Gen. John Charles Thompson
made a speech advocating the nomination
of women for two of the places, and urging
especially the choice of Mrs. Ruble. Miss
Edith McAtee, president of one of the
Democratic women’s clubs, recommended
that no woman should be placed upon the
ticket. “You have given the ladies 50 per
cent of the appointive offices, and that
should be enough,” she said. But the
convention was of a different opinion. Mrs.
Ruble, Mrs. Mary J. Wygant, Mrs Imo-
gene Golden Clark and Mrs. Harriet G. R
Wright were all nominated by their friends,
and so were a large number of men. After
the nominating speeches were all made,
Gen. John W. Browning moved that a
woman should be chosen before they began
to ballot on the men. State Senator John
A. Rush and Congressman Shafroth spoke
in support of the motion, and it was carried
without a dissenting voice. The conven-
tion proceeded to ballot on the four ladies.
Mrs. Ruble had 339 votes, Mrs. Wygant
168, Mrs. Wright 107 and Mrs. Clarke 99.
Mrs. Ruble’s nomination was then made
unanimous. It is interesting to note that
two Generals took the leading part in urg-
ing the nomination of a woman. It has
often been observed that military men are


apt to look with especial scorn on the argu-
ment that women ought not to be allowed
to have a voice in public affairs because
they do not fight.


ITEMS OF INTEREST.
	Dr. Hannah Graham has been appointed
one of the visiting physicians of St. Vin-
cent’s Infirmary, Indianapolis, Indiana.
	Dr. Alice Ellsworth, a recent graduate of
the medical department of Michigan Uni-
versity, has been appointed an interne in a
hospital in Minneapolis.
	Mrs. Ella Spencer Mussey, who has been
appointed the head of the women’s auxiliary,
committee at Washington for the coming
Grand Army Encampment, is the widow of
Gen. R. D. Mussey. She is the only
woman dean of a law school, and is said to
be a woman of much tact and executive
ability.
	In some places where there are no wells
of clear water, and the streams have to be
depended on, the water in the spring and
early summer is often so thick that it is un-
fit for use without cleansing. If prickly
pears or cactus can be obtained, twirl them
around in a barrel of water and it will soon
be clear. Some people use alum, but I
have not tried that, so cannot vouch for it.
Have a large barrel, put a pail of water in
it, break one egg in, then fill your barrel,
and in a short time it will be as clear as
crystal. The water should be changed
every day if used for drinking and cooking,
the barrel should be scrubbed and cleansed
out often, and rinsed out every day. B.R.
	Professor Jacobi, one of the most famous
physicians of Berlin, Gemany, has be-
queathed ten thousand marks to the Uni-
versity of Berlin, making it a condition
that the University shall not come into pos-
session of the money until women are ad-
mitted as regular students to at least two
departments. In regard to this gift the
Woman’s Medical Journal says: “A gener-
ous North Carolinan secured the admission
of women to the State University by a
large gift which he made on condition that
the University should be opened to women,
and Miss Mary Garrett, of Baltimore,
bought for women the right to study at the
medical school of Johns Hopkins, paying a
price for the privilege. Dr. Jacobi seems
to be the first German to take this practical
method of promoting equal privileges in
education.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1902	Nos. 11-12


CONTENTS. 
Bertha Spencer’s Holiday, Annie W. Cannon		41
Notes and News.............................................		42
Interesting Letters from Nauvoo...................		43
Mrs. Stanton’s Last Word..............................		43
Governor’s Proclamation..............................		44
Miss Anthony Interviewed............................		45
A Peace Note to the Powers, Arnold De Lisle	46
R. S. Reports.................................................		49
In Memoriam................................................		47
Alpine Stake..................Emma Featherstone		47 
Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting....A. Wadrop		47
EDITORIAL—How to Cultivate Faith.........		44
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton.........................		44
	Editorial Notes.......................................		45
POETRY—Thanksgiving.......Ellis R. Shipp		41
	The Depth of Love....Charles H. Towne		43
	Things That Never Die.Charles Dickens	43


THANKSGIVING.

Great Father kind, we thank Thee for light of sun,
The privilege to dwell upon this earth,
For everything which Thou for us hast done
Since through Thy mercy we were given births.
Ah, how can we our gratitude e’er show,
For all thy many blessings here below.

For sustenance of body, mind and heart, 
The bounties of the earth, the sky and sea,
This wondrous world, and all it doth impart—
Its light and shadow—all, all come from Thee!
Oh, may we learn to clearly understand
That even storms are mercies at Thy hand.

For music’s waves to ope the ice-bound caves
Of fettered thought—of hardened hearts—
To sanctify each grief, while spirit laves
Its bruised hopes to ease its wounds and smarts,
Sweet, soothing notes, let burdened spirits free—
Teach murmuring souls a true humility.

For wealth of learning’s lore we find in books,
For minds to ope our own unfolded thought,
For noble acts and gentle tones and looks.
Which Thou into each daily life hath brought.
Ah, gratitude snpreme indeed should blend
With every breath—to Thee, Unfailing Friend!

For earthly friends, and comforts, too, of home,
For kindred dear who bring us joys so sweet,
Who—though in distant lands we roam—
Make hope, and faith more perfect and complete.
Give pure incentive to each effort here,
Enhancing joys, e’en sweet’ning sorrow’s tear.

Ah then for love we thank thee more than all,
It beams through all the world’s dark wilderness.
Thy mercy heareth ev’ry mortal’s call—
Thy love which breathes the sweetest tenderness,
Which brings the tired pilgrims rest and peace,
Imprisoned spirits, too, a sweet release.

Makes light the darksome way with Living Fire,
Illumines every narrow, winding path,
Removes all doubt—awakens grand desire, 
Implants in human hearts Eternal Faith.
Oh! now, Dear Lord, unbounded gratitude
Accept for all these blessings pure and good.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
BERTHA SPENCER’S HOLIDAY. 
	For weeks the Spencer household had
been in a state of excitement and prep-
aration, for the only daughter was going to
be married. The amount of work required
to get a girl “married off” properly is quite
astonishing, for with the shopping, the
sewing, the designing and fitting, the lists
for invitations, the house decorations and
the hundred other things that tend to make
a wedding, one’s mind and body too are
quite worn out, at least this was the case
in the Spencer family for Bertha was very
much beloved and everything possible had

[Column 2]
to be done for her by her doting parents.
But now the last week had arrived, the
pretty trousseau had been carefully ex-
amined and laid away with violet sachets
among the dresses, ribbons, gloves and
laces, and rose leaves and lavender among
the dainty lingerie and snowy linen, and
Bertha, like a school girl, was pleading
with her parents for one long, free day.
	“Just one day, mamma, all alone,” said
Bertha, “from one morning until the next,
to do just as I please and not to be dis-
turbed nor interfered with by any one.”
	So simple a request one might think
could be easily granted, but a popular girl 
engaged is seldom her own mistress. Soci-
ety, as well as a girl’s fiance always have
some claim and say on a girl’s time and
the manner of spending it. But throwing
care to the wind and standing on her own
ground Bertha persuaded her mother to
consent to her whim and grant her a day
of respite from all thoughts of the wedding
and from all thoughts of the future. She
wished to indulge herself just once again
in girlish fancies, and a sober-minded person
would say “pranks;” for well she felt, that no
matter how happy married life may be, few
are a woman’s own moments, when the re-
sponsiblity of a home and a man’s happi-
ness depend upon her.
	Two days before her marriage Bertha
claimed her day and positively refused to
see any one, even her mother. Bertha’s
home was just an ordinary, comfortable
home, such as as a man with a moderate
income and a woman with some tact and
management and a good deal of common
sense would provide; room enough, a gar-
den, an orchard, a pretty lawn and flower
beds, not too plenteous, but a pretty set-
ting to a cottage home where comfort
mingles slightly with a little artistic tem-
perament. And Bertha—well, she was
perhaps only an ordinary girl, too, neither
a beauty nor a genius, yet a pretty girl with
some accomplishments and brimming over
with sentiment.
	That latter trait easily shows why she
desired this one day all her own. The
night before she left her blinds partly
raised that the first faint rays of daylight
might enter her room and as they did she
awoke from her happy slumber and pre-
pared herself for the sweet day of idleness.
After dressing neatly in a pretty blue
gown, setting her room in order and offer-
ing her morning prayer she quietly let her-
self out of the house. No one was stirring
only the birds were beginning to awaken
and nature in its solitude was all the love-
lier. Down the garden walk, into the
orchard she ran. The dear old orchard,
how she loved its rows of lovely apple
trees, and currant bushes in between. Here
all her young life she had romped and
played, climbed the trees in fearless games
of back out, and swung out on the highest
limbs, then dropped into the dewy grass
beneath. In games of hide and seek she
had buried herself in the foliage of the cur-
rant bushes, and under the spreading shade
of the dear old apple trees had given many
theatrical performances. The forests of

[Column 3]
Arden had they been many a time, and
herself the lovely Rosaland, and here at last
—not in play, but in reality—the true
knight had come and won his own fair
lady.
	This glorious morning she threw aside
decorum and lived again for one brief hour
her happy childish days; along the old
familiar haunts she ran, climbed into the
trees, shook the branches, fragrant and
beautiful in their pink and white blossoms,
and as the snowy petals fell upon the
ground she laughingly recalled the day
when she entertained the neighboring chil-
dren, reciting “The Little Bare Foot;” and
to make the play more real had one of the
boys shaking apple blossoms over her in
imitation of a snow storm. Peeping into
the recesses of a large currant bush she was
almost shocked to see one of her own dear
dolls. Poor neglected little thing stained
and soiled with decaying leaves, tenderly
she raised it, her first bisque doll, ever so
small, but after all, the “prettiest doll in
the world,” notwithstanding larger flaxen-
haired, and gorgeously-dressed dolls had
later been her own.
	What a flood of recollections that little
doll brought back to her now, the differ-
ent dresses her childish fingers had fash-
ioned; how once she made a mourning dress
to go to a baby doll’s funeral. The mater-
ial was a piece of dear Aunt Louisa’s black
silk with purple stars, and Bertha, poor
thing, sewed it with white thread and
stitches to make a baby blush. Sewing
never was Bertha’s strong point, but she
was always good at preaching and on this
particular occasion she was elected parson.
In later life she never knew whether to laugh
or cry when she recalled that funeral sermon,
it was so touching in its ridiculousness, so
ridiculous in its touchingness. One other
reminiscence of the doll was a picnic on the
hills, where she with several other little
girls carried their dolls, dressed in gingham
(they were always most particular about
their dolls costumes) in a little express wagon
hired from one of the brothers and paid for
in apples. Here after the picnic they
gathered the wagon full of blue bells, sweet
peas and sego lilies. Sweet little doll, lie
there still in the leaves of the currant
bushes, for the day is growing. Let me
bury you here with the flood of recollections
of that sweet childhood.
	The sun was rising o’er the eastern hills
and glinting the leaves and dewy grass with
its brightness when Bertha descended from
her lofty fancies and realized that the sharp-
ness of the early morning exercises, had
made her hungry, accordingly she quietly
re-entered the house, ate with relish the
breakfast that the kind-hearted maid had
prepared for her, and taking along a dainty
lunch, again sauntered irito the garden be-
fore any of the rest of the household had
arisen Lolling in the grass in the shade
of the dear old garden, in girlish dreams,
the morning hours were spent.
	Is it time wasted in retrospect, if
we live a full measure of happiness,
sometimes in idle fancies and sweet
memories? Ah no! for time and places


[Column 1]
always change and the morrow, who can
tell? Even so with this sweet girl. The
garden of her home, her early playground
was destined soon to annihilation. The
beautiful trees, the graceful bushes the
waving corn all vanished, to make place for
great brick buildings perfectly expression-
less business blocks where never a familiar
thing recalls the graceful garden or the happy
home. Letting herself out the garden gate
Bertha sauntered along the street noting
nothing, simply breathing the fresh air and
enjoying to the utmost every minute of the
day. At last she reached the foothills and 
there lay the old graveyard where a tall
white marble slab marked the resting place
of a sweet, sweet sister. “My sister, my
sweet sister, if a sweeter name there were
it should be thine,” quoted Bertha, as she
seated herself beside the little mound. She
often visited here, for she loved and cher-
ished all the sweet associations of her early
life and as she thought of that lovely girl,
of how they had romped and played to-
gether, of how they had laughed and wept,
shared each others’ joys and sorrows, knelt
for years together in prayer, conned the
same books, practised the same lessons, the
tears came to her eyes and a longing to her
heart to whisper now the story of her love,
for she knew what sympathy and outpour-
ing of love that sister had for her. And
who can tell but that the whisperings of
her spirit were heard in that other world,
at any rate, her silent prayer gave her
great comfort, and a gentle calmness came
upon her and made her very happy as she
proceeded on her walk to the hills beyond.
Often before had she enjoyed the walks in
the canyon and among the hills, but usual-
ly in company with some gay companions
gathering wild flowers or autumn leaves,
and now almost from habit she gathered
the flowers as she saw them, but dropped
them just as soon, so her path was marked
with lovely flowers; on she walked, now
climbing the rugged rocks, again threading
her way among the maple and oak brush,
tripping occasionally in the tangled grasses
and catching her clothes in the thorns of
the wild rose bush. Like Marguerite she
counted the petals of the daisy, repeating
“He loves me, he loves me not,” and like
a mountain naiad she seemed when she
wove herself a wreath of wild roses and
fancied she was once again the May queen
with her long, glossy hair let down over
her shoulders that she might see the reflec-
tion of herself and better recall the school
days and the happy games of that yesterday.
She fairly laughed with the thought of the
game of Copenhagen when that dashing,
dark-eyed boy chased after her in and out
and under the knotted rope for the prize of
one kiss. The pink suffused her cheeks
even now as she recalled the thrill she felt
as his hand touched hers, clutched so tight-
ly on the rope. Poor boy, he too was gone,
the ocean furnished him a grave, and silent-
ly they who loved him suffered on, scarcely
realizing but that some day he would return.
With a flood of tender memories, she un-
consciously tossed a pebble in the stream,
and as the circles rose one after the other,
then broadened and broke into the rushing
water, so the rich recollections rushed
through her mind, making her oblivious to
all outward sounds, when suddenly she
was startled by the gruff, but pleasant
voice of a teamster, hauling timber from
the mountains, as he hailed her with the 
commonplace courtesy of the canyon road:
	“Have a ride, miss.”

[Column 2]
	Sitting on a rocky throne, with her
crown of flowers she looked like a Druid
queen, and the suddeness of the invitation
to ride startled her so that she seemed for
a moment quite bewildered and scarcely
realized herself the situation, untill the man
exclaimed:
	“By George, it’s a pity for so young and
pretty a girl as you to be daft.”
	She lightly laughed at this and accepted
the situation and the ride as well. It just
suited her mood to climb to the top of the
great logs so tightly chained together and
ride down the rough canon road. It was
a rude, jolting way she knew, for
she had tried it once before with a
school girl friend and the driver sang
them funny songs and told them funny
stories. Bertha enjoyed it then, but she
rather hoped this driver wouldn’t and her
wish was gratified, for thinking her mind
was affected, he was most careful how he
addressed her and seemed satisfied simply
to ask a few questions as to where she be-
longed and who she was, and Bertha per-
ceiving his mind concerning her, without
wishing to frighten him, still did not un-
deceive him, but allowed herself to wander
into fairyland again, and midst songs and
laughter asked him, “Had he met the fair-
ies in the hills, and did he see the queen
with her magic wand?”
	“Well, no miss,” he answered, “but
sure farther down the road I met a fairy,
and you’re it.”
	At which she laughed so gaily that he
felt more satisfied than ever of her insanity
and in order to keep her quiet, began to
tell of the beautiful mountain where the
logs were hewn, of the cold ice-like spring
and its tiny fall that is the beginning of the
canyon stream, where clinging to the rocks
along its banks are clusters of graceful
ferns and mosses, green and soft and rich
as velvet, and now and then long slender
leaves holding sprays of little white lilies
are found at the foot of the towering pines,
then high in the mountains, are the large
white and purple columbines.
	“Oh, I know,” she interrupted, “I found
some once when a jolly crowd of us were
picnicking near the upper mill; they are just
lovely.”
	“Say, miss,” said the teamster, “are you
crazy or just pretendin’?”
	At this question Bertha laughed so heart-
ily that he was more mystified than ever,
but she presently assured him of her
sanity and allayed his fears and false im-
pressions by telling him that she was just a
romantic girl taking a walk in the cañon
and indulging herself in fancies and idle-
ness “just for fun, you know.”
	After this explanation she jumped down
from the wagon, for by this time the
mouth of the cañon had been reached, and
thanking him for the “lift” began to pin up
her glossy hair, remove her flowers and
assume a young lady air once more.
	“Well I’ll be jiggered,” said the driver,
if you aint a fairy, you’re sure a picter. But
don’t get too romantic or some one ’ill be
running away with you for certain.”
	“Good bye,” laughed Bertha. “Thanks
again, I’ve enjoyed the ride so much.”
	’Twas dark when Bertha reached the
broad streets. The great hills behind
threw dark shadows across the cañon road
and the red glow of the setting sun still
lingered on the mountain’s snowy peaks
After one long loving glance up the narrow
cañon towards the old saw mill, with its
great wooden wheel standing like herself in

[Column 3]
picturesque idleness, Bertha hurried her
steps towards home, for she feared meeting
some friend or acquaintance and this lone,
idle day was not to be interrupted with any
ordinary social talk. Quietly she entered
the house and immediately sought her room;
locking herself in she indulged in a short
rest on her bed, for the long walk had tired
her somewhat. After a brief rest, Bertha
again sought the kitchen and the kind-
hearted cook whom she persuaded to allow
her to eat in the pantry and not tell the
family she had returned until she was again
safely in her own room.
	“Laws, miss, but I am glad to see you,
whatever notion’s this you’ve got, not to
see even your ma, or your young man,
who’ll sure be here pretty soon.”
	“Well, never mind, Polly, they all know
I’m all right, and mamma promised me
the day all alone and I’m going to have it,
so don’t let anybody disturb me tonight.”
	“All right, miss; but I do think, we’ll all
be pretty glad when your holiday, as you
call it, is over.”
	Again in her room Bertha spent the
early evening sorting ribbons and little
trinkets, she intended giving to a neighbor’s
little girl. With loving touch she brought
forth her last doll, such a beauty, then laid
it carefully away for some other little girl—
who knows in after years.
	The day had been ideal and now the
moon was just rising and its faint silver
light threw shadows in her room. Bertha
leaned out of her window still dreaming,
and thinking “This is the last leaf of my
girl-life book, can I look into the future
and see what awaits me there?”
	Her heart was lifted up with the intense
pleasure of her holiday, for she had indeed
enjoyed to the uttermost every moment,
had realized the poet’s thought,
 
	“There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
	A comfort on the lonely shore,
	Society where none intrude by the deep sea,
	And music in its roar, 
	I love not man the less, but nature more.”

	Sweet girlhood, what a day that must
have been! And in after years ’mid life’s
stern realities how often would the sweet
memory of that day be wafted to her soul
by the delicate perfume of a flower, or the
tender note of some bird song. To a soul,
where sentiment lies deep, nature and retro-
spect always bring sweet thoughts of 

	“The tender grace of a day that is gone.”
				ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Anna Connor is county treasurer of
Shoshone Co., Idaho.
	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt was given a
reception during her recent visit to Denver
by Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Cornwall, on the
roof garden of the Cornwall flat. About
250 guests were present, and at the close of
Mrs. Catt’s address more than fifty new
members joined the Suffrage Association.
	It is a noteworthy fact that the Illinois
State Federation of Women’s Clubs at its
recent meeting endorsed with enthusiasm
the bill to give tax-paying women a vote
on all tax questions and for all tax officials.
A committee of influential club women will
work for the passage of the bill. We be-
lieve this is the first time that a State
Federation of Women’s Clubs, as a body,
has taken up the effort to secure any form
of suffrage beyond the school ballot.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE DEPTH OF LOVE.

Because he brought no tears to her dear grave,
	Many and many there were,
Who whispered when no single sign he gave,
	“He never cared for her”

But down within the silence of his soul
	A surging ocean swept;
Yet none could see the current onward roll,
	The tides that never slept.

Because I stand in silence when your eyes
	Look softly into mine;
Because no words to my poor lips arise,
	Because I give no sign;

There are, perchance, those who would dare to
		say
	There is no heart in me.
Beloved, let them cry! Be glad that they
	Can never sound our sea.
			CHARLES HANSON TOWNE.


THINGS THAT NEVER DIE.

The pure, the bright, the beautiful,
	That stirred our hearts in youth,
The impulses of wordless prayer,
	The dreams of love and truth;
The longings after something lost, 
	The spirit’s yearning cry, 
The striving after better hopes—
	These things can never die. 

The timid hand stretched forth to aid
	A brother in his need,
A kindly word in grief’s dark hour
	That proves a friend indeed;
The plea for mercy softly breathed,
	When justice threatens nigh,
The sorrow of a contrite heart—
	These things shall never die.

The memory of a clasping hand,
	The pressure of a kiss,
And all the trifles sweet and frail,
	That make up love’s first bliss;
If with a firm, unchanging faith,
	And holy trust and high,
Those hands have clasped, those lips have
			met—
	These things shall never die,

The cruel and the bitter word,
	That wounded as it fell;
The chilling want of sympathy
	We feel but never tell;
The hard repulse that chills the heart
	Whose hopes were bounding high,
In an unfading record kept—
	These things shall never die.

Let nothing pass, for every hand
	Must find some work to do;
Lose not a chance to waken love—
	Be firm and just and true,
So shall light that cannot fade
	Beam on thee from on high,
And angel voices say to thee—
		These things shall never die.
					CHARLES DICKENS.


[Column 1]
INTERESTING LETTERS FROM NAUVOO.
				NAUVOO, Nov. 6, 1902.
Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff:
	DEAR MOTHER:—This has been a most
interesting day for Asahel and myself. The
day has been sunny and beautiful. The
crysanthemums, some few roses and many
other beautiful flowers are still untouched
by the frost, lending their assistance in
making the landscape almost perfect. We
visited a great number of the former homes
of the Saints, including father’s, Uncle
Smoot’s and the lot where your house
stood, President Joseph Smith’s, President
Young’s, President Taylor’s, President
Snow’s Heber C. Kimball’s and many 
others. We also visited the Temple block,
where you used to take grandfather’s din-
ner to him when he was at work on the 
Temple. We walked through the lane
south of where you used to live, and fancied
we could see you tripping light-heartedly
along that same lane before the cares

[Column 2]
brought upon you through the persecu-
tions laid premature care and sorrow on
your young heart. I may be home in a
few days, and I may not; but when I come
I will tell you all about our visit. It must
have been a great trial for our people to leave
this beautiful country. It could be made a
veritable paradise with the labor our peo-
ple have expended in the dry west.
	I hope this will find you well, and that
God may bless you in your Relief Society
and Temple work and all things. With 
love to yourself and Alice.
	Affectionately Your Son,
		ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF.


	NAUVOO, ILL., Nov. 6, 1902.
Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff:
	MY DEAR MOTHER:—Owen and I have
been enjoying ourselves immensely today,
visiting the beautiful city of Nauvoo.
Beautiful for situation indeed, but now sad-
ly neglected, as we wandered through the
streets and saw in numerous places the
well curb only, as a fence about the cavity
to keep cattle from falling in, as the only
evidence of what was doubtless once a hap-
py home, my heart felt sad to see this deso-
lation. Many of the old places are stand-
ing, however, but their grounds and sur-
roundings are sadly neglected indeed. The
site where once stood the magnificent Tem-
ple is now overgrown with weeds, where
the ground is not littered with boards, old
doors, etc., as it seems to be a sort of col-
lecting ground for junk. From stone taken
from the Temple a large school building
has been constructed, also parts of other
structures. A Catholic priest occupies the
house of Parley P. Pratt, we called on him
and were treated nicely. A large Catholic
school and convent stand across the street,
and the arsenal is joined to and forms a part 
of it. We visited the people living in
Uncle Smoot’s house and learned that a 
two room brick house had formerly occu-
pied the corner near by, which we supposed
was the one you lived in. The lot is now
nearly covered with a vineyard and one
lone peach tree, also a small piece right in
the corner is occupied with garden truck.
Bishop Hunter’s house over in the next
block is fairly well preserved. A clump of
three large evergreens stand at the west
end. Passing down the street from your
place southward we passed a three story
house belonging to David Yearsley, then
turning up a block we called at father’s
house which has been occupied for four-
teen years by a Mr. Rheinburger. The
place is in a fair state of preservation and
much the same as when he left it, except
that the fireplaces have all been closed up,
of which there was one in each of the seven
rooms. The porch has been removed
from the front and one built on the rear.
Two locust trees, one in the front and one
at the rear, appear to have been standing
guard for at least sixty years. The floors,
casings, stairs and other woodwork are as
of yore. The trap into the attic, the cleat
on the cellar door and other features of the
place show the characteristics of the build-
er. During the day we visited the homes of
Heber C. Kimball, Brigham Young, Lorenzo
Snow, Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, Sidney
Rigdon, John Taylor, the Prophet Joseph, the
Mansion House, the Nauvoo House, and
many other places. The White house, the
oldest building in the place is still standing
and occupied. Wm. Law’s home has only

[Column 3]
the foundation left, also the mill owned by
him and his brother, Wilson. We strolled
along the beach in front of the Nauvoo
house and gathered some pretty pebbles,
some of them wonderfully marked Emma
Smith’s grave is located about two rods
south and one west of the Prophet’s home.
Just before sunset, having obtained per-
mission from the janitor, we mounted to
the deck of a large school house standing
on a commanding eminence and secured a
splendid view of the city stretched out be-
neath, the river in its splendid sweep
around three sides, Montrose across the
noble stream with the islands midway of
the same, and last but not least, one of the
grandest sunsets, it was ever my privilege
to behold. Nauvoo was well named the
peaceful, the beautiful. Surely our parents
sacrificed much for the Gospel. The Lord
bless you and comfort you.
				Affectionately,
						ASAHEL.


MRS. STANTONS LAST WORD’.
WOMEN APPEAL TO THE PRESIDENT. 
	In July, 1848, history records the first
movement among women for the discussion
of their political, religious and social
wrongs.
	Since then the demand for the right of
suffrage has extended over many countries
and has been granted, in one form or
another, in the United States, in England
and her colonies, in Australia, New Zea-
land, the Isle of Man and New South
Wales.
	Tax-paying women have voted by proxy
in several nations of the Old World for
many years.
	In the long history of woman’s wrongs
there never has been so favorable a time to
demand her complete emancipation in the
United States as now, for we have for the
first time in this Republic a president who
has declared himself in favor of woman’s
political equality.
	When President Roosevelt was governor
of New York he recommended the en-
franchisement of the women of the State in
his message to the New York legislature,
and expressed the same opinion on several
public occasions Now is the opportune
time for leading women to ask the president
to make the same demand in his coming
message to Congress for this act of justice
to thirty-six million American citizens how
defrauded of their most sacred right, one
that underlies all others, a voice in the
laws. For, as the fathers said long ago:
“No just government can be formed with-
out the consent of the governed.”
	In a speech made, by the President at
Fitchburg on Labor Day, he said that he
was “in favor of an amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, confer-
ring additional power upon the federal
government to deal with corporations.”
	To control and restrain giant monopolies
for the best interests of the people is of vast
mport, but of far vaster importance is the
establishment and protection of the rights
and liberties of one half the people of the
United States, the most moral half, too—
namely, women. 
	Surely there is.no greater monopoly than
that of all men denying to all women a
voice in the laws they are compelled to
obey.	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
	October 20, 1902.
					Woman’s Journal


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
... Address all business communications to
	Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1902


GOVERNOR PROCLAIMS THANKSGIVING.
	In accordance with the usual custom,
Governor Wells today issued his Thanks-
giving proclamation, designating Thurs-
day, Nov. 27, as Thanksgiving day. The
proclamation follows in full:
PROCLAMATION.
	Conforming to the revered custom initi-
ated by the pilgrim fathers, in full accord
with the desires of our happy and prosper-
ous people, and in harmony with the
proclamation of the President, I. Heber
M. Wells, Governor of the State of Utah.
do hereby designate Thursday, the 27th
day of November instant, as a day of praise
and thanksgiving to God for the countless
blessings and benefits showered upon the
people of this State.
	At no time, in our history have the
material, educational and social comforts of
life been so abundantly and universally be-
stowed as during the year now drawing to
its close; nor has the promise and potency
of the future seemed so fraught with every
earthly blessing.
	I therefore recommend that the people of
this State in their places of worship and at
their homes, observe with reverent joy, and
with uplifted hearts and with the wide ex-
tended hands of good fellowship this Thanks-
giving day.
	In testimony whereof I have hereunto
set, my hand and caused the great seal of
the State of Utah to be hereunto affixed.
	Done at Salt Lake City this 13th day of
November, 1902.
[Seal]		HEBER M. WELLS.
By the Governor,
	J. T. HAMMOND, Secretary of State.


[Column 1]
HOW TO CULTIVATE FAITH.
The abundant evidence of the truth of
the Latter-day work and dispensation seems
to those who are living in the light of testi-
mony to preclude all disbelief even in the
young and inexperienced, and yet one finds
here and there a doubting Thomas, and one
marvels that such things can be among the
children of the Saints and wonders what
should be the remedy? How should we as
parents instil faith into the minds of the
young people? Is there a positive method
for preventing unbelief springing up in the
minds of the youth of Zion ? Our little
children who are trained in the Primary
Association to speak, to give expression in
what we term testimony bearing, must it
would seem, have greater faith than those

[Column 2]
who do not have this special opportunity.
In the past we may have left too much
to the advantages of birth; there was a
very prevalent idea that the children of
faithful parents, especially those born in
the new and everlasting covenant could
not go wrong; and in many instances this
idea has perhaps led to neglect. There was
not at all times such constant watchfulness
and strenuous exercise of control, as ought
to have been maintained in the care of the
children of Zion. A sort of apathetic faith
that was never put in practice, taken for
granted on the part of parents. To be a
Latter-day Saint one must have living faith
that will help one’s daily life; a constant
performance of duty will build up faith in
the soul and in the character because then
we have faith in ourselves; courage is
necessary to faith and so is energy, a faith
without energy is a failure. Faith in God
will help us to commune with Him through
His Spirit, it is an active principle.
The Book of Doctrine and Covenants has
excellent lessons upon this subject that if
carfully studied will naturally benefit those
whose faith needs strengthening. Some
exertion must come from the individual
man or woman, boy or girl. The teacher
may point the way, may even illustrate,
may by very force of personality inspire
others, but there must be a corresponding
activity in the student or there will be no
beneficial effect.
That faith is a gift is frequently urged as
an excuse for not seeking to obtain it, and
some people seem to have taken it for
granted that, as they have not been especi-
ally endowed with faith from childhood, it is
useless to try to make any great effort in
that direction, and go on in their indiffer-
ence not realizing it is an essential part of
life itself. It is a beautiful thing to have
that sublime faith which reaches up to
heaven and to God and extends into
eternity.
Every good gift should be sought after,
even if one is not specially gifted by birth
or inheritance, and as faith is the first prin-
ciple essential to salvation, it is the duty of
every individual that has come to years of
accountability to seek for faith, by prayer,
and even by fasting if doubts arise.
Paul in his epistle to the Hebrews has
given a lesson upon faith which cannot
fail to impress those who read it with an
honest heart. The scriptures inspire faith
if one reads them with a desire to compre-
hend their true meaning; and certainly the
eleventh chapter of Hebrews has in every
verse a truth that is full of the very essence
of faith. Paul says, speaking of David, Sam-
uel and others of the prophets of old, “Who
through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought
righteousness, obtained promises, stopped
the mouths of lions, out of weakness were
made strong.” How many weak ones in
our day have been made strong through
faith? Yea, thousands!
But we in this age, do not need particul-
arly to go back to the ancients for testi-
monies, for they are all around us, if we
would only open our eyes to see, and our
hearts to receive them. The very fact of
the Latter-day Saints enduring the perse-
cutions and privations that were heaped
upon them for years, and finally leaving
their homes and possessions, earned through
toil and hardship, and coming into a desert
land, is an evidence of implicit faith in
God and the Latter-day work, and the divin-
ity of the mission of Joseph Smith in this 

[Column 3]
dispensation, that ought to convince every
child of the Latter-days Saints, that God is
with this people, that His hand has been
over them, and that their remarkable faith
in Him has been their support in passing
through every trying ordeal; and certainly
it is apparent that by means of that faith
they have wrought wonders in this desert
land. The Bible tells us “Faith without
works is dead,” and believing this land
could be made to bear grain and fruits, and
that this people would be preserved from
famine and want, the pioneers and their
followers plowed and planted, implicitly be-
living the Lord would give the increase,
and though they were told corn and grain
could not be raised here, yet Brigham
Young and those associated with him, had
faith to believe that the people would be
preserved and Zion would be established;
and in fact their faith was almost perfect;
for the promises made to the Saints could
not fail, if they were obedient to the voice
of the Good Shepherd, and to the heavenly
vision.
Joseph the Prophet had told them of this
land in the West where the people might
find a resting place, and though the loca-
tion was not known, yet when Prestdent
Young looked upon this barren tract, the
Salt Lake valley, the spirit manifested to
him that this was the chosen spot where the
Lord designed his people to dwell.
Notwithstanding testimonies may and do
abound, yet it is necessary, for each person
to cultivate faith and strengthen his own
faith by works, and by keeping the com-
mandments of God. Disobedience destroys
faith in the soul but obedience and humil-
ity engender faith and promote its growth
in the human heart   Association, too, has
much to do with the strengthening or
weakening of one’s faiths. To keep the
company and listen to the murmurings,
complaints and doubtings of one whose
faith is weak, or who has no faith in God
or his promises, has a tendency to tear
down and destroy the faith of others espec-
ally in the young who are easily influenced
or susceptible to influences. The old say-
ing, written in our copy books long ago,
“Evil communications corrupt good man-
ners,” is true, and evil influences are cal-
culated to darken the minds of the young
and unsuspecting and lead them away
from the truth, and poison their minds
with the atmosphere that surrounds them,
perhaps imperceptibly, but just as surely as
would tangible evils the temporal body.
Joseph Smith the Prophet said, “The time
will come when evil influences will be more
dangerous and more to be dreaded than
contagious diseases;” and yet we as a peo-
ple do not heed the warning, for to all appear
ance that time is fast approaching it has
not already come. We shall need mighty
faith to help us to overcome, and whatever
can be done by inculcating the principles 
that will tend to strengthen and cultivate
faith should be sought for diligently by
every Latter-day Saint. It is said example 
is better than precept and there are those
who think that good examples will suffice
without much teaching, but we have found
the example of good parents is not always
sufficient, and teaching sometimes fails, but
try both and have faith and courage and
love and the three combined will be a
power for good that cannot fail to have a
good and lasting effect, if accompanied with
prayer and the performance every human
duty, and trust in God for He hath said,


“They that trust in Him shall be as Mount
Zion, which cannot be removed, but
abideth forever.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton who died
in New York City, October 26, 1902, was
one of the most extraordinary women the
nineteenth century has produced; and cer-
tainly one of the most original in thought
and expression.
	Mrs Stanton was born November 12,
1816, at Johnstown, N. Y., and was the
daughter of Judge Daniel Cady, a celebrated
jurist, her mother, Margaret Livingston, is
said to have been a woman of “unusual
vivacity.”
	Mrs. Stanton was beloved by all who had
the pleasure of coming in contact with her.
Her fine personality was perceptible to all
with whom she was in any way associated.
	When Mrs. Stanton was a young bride
she went with her husband to London.
He was a delegate from the Anti-slavery
Society in America; Lucretia Mott was one
of the rejected women delegates and Mrs.
Stanton’s sympathies were aroused and she
formed a lasting friendship for that famous
Quaker advocate of freedom and equal
rights. To a friend, who asked what most
interested her in all London, she answered,
“Lucretia Mott.” After that the subject
of equal rights was more or less in her
thoughts.
	She wrote the call for the first Woman’s
Rights Convention at Seneca Falls, New
York, 1848. Three years after Miss Susan
B. Anthony became acquainted with her
and they were ever afterwards devoted
friends; their lives and characters fitted
beautifully into each other. It was a
charming picture to see them together, two
very venerable women, and so unlike in
appearance and in many of the serious mat-
ters of life and in many of its phases Miss
Anthony’s devotion to Mrs. Stanton has
often recalled to the mind of the writer that
of Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister
Eliza R. Snow, only with this difference,
Miss Snow and Miss Anthony were like in
many respects, and Aunt Zina, as we loved
to call her, possessed in a great degree the
mother element that shone so conspicuously
in Mrs Stanton.
	Mrs Stanton was a famous housekeeper
and accomplished home maker; she had
seven children, five sons and two daughters.
It is said of her that she was so pretty in
her youth that she looked well in the
Bloomer costume which she, Lucy Stone
and Miss Anthony all were for a few years.
In her later life she was a magnificent
specimen of cultured womanhood.
	Age had not diminished her strength of
mind, her intellect was bright to the last;
though her body grew more feeble and
those around her could see a change was
coming. “The end came very peacefully,
she fell asleep and knew no waking.” She
was near her 87th birthday.
	Her six living children are Henry Gerrit
Smith, Theodore and Robert, Mrs. Margar-
et Stanton Lawrence and Mrs. Harriet
Stanton Blatch. The funeral was held
October 29, at Mrs. Stanton’s home; only
the family, and a few intimate friends, who
were present by invitation. Miss Susan B.
Anthony, Mrs. Lillie Devereaux Blake,
and Mrs. Charlotte F. Wilbour were among
the number. Addresses were given by
Rev. Martin D. Conway of London, and

[Column 2]
Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell. She was
buried at Woodlawn cemetery. The cere-
mony at the grave included an address by
Rev. Phebe A. Hanaford.
	At some future time the writer hopes to
publish some personal reminiscences of
Mrs. Stanton from her own acquaintance
and correspondence with this brilliant,
attractive, magnificently gifted woman.


(Column 1)
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, First Counselor
to President Bathsheba W. Smith in the
General Relief Society, started on Friday,
November 14, expecting to visit the Relief
Society in Denver, Pueblo, and in Arizona
and Mexico, returning home by way of
California and pay a visit to the Saints
and the Relief Society there. In company
with Sister Hyde is Sister Julia Brixen, of
the Y. L. N. M. I. A. Board, and these
two sisters are traveling with Elder J.
Golden Kimball, who is also doing mission-
ary work. They will probably be absent
about a month.
	In the October number of the paper we
mentioned the book we hope to bring out
during the holidays. We also said it would
be partly published by subscription as a
certain amount is necessary as a guarantee.
The price of one copy will be one dollar,
and all money received will be deposited in
the bank and receipts given and if the book
is not published the money will be returned
to the subscribers without fail.	Consider-
ing the many books of fiction bought by
our people it would be much better to en-
courage home talent and purchase those
written by our own brethren or sisters, con-
taining facts and good morals.	The title
will be “Aunt Em’s Stories of Long Ago.”
	The birthday of Sister M. Isabella Horne
will be celebrated Thursday, November 20,
a part of the program will be an anniversary
gathering in Barratt Memorial Building at
2 p. m. There will be music, addresses and
appropriate exercises and she will thus be
given the opportunity of greeting her old
friends, and they will see and hear this re-
markable woman’s testimony of the Gospel
and of the divinity of the mission of the
Prophet, Joseph with whom she was ac
quainted.	Sister Horne was a member of
the Church in the early days and also a
pioneer of 1847, arriving in the valley early
in September.	Sister Horne has traveled
very extensively among the people in the
interest of the women’s organizations of the
Church, she also visited England, her na-
tive land and was one of the speakers at the
Columbian Exposition in the Art Palace in
Chicago and visited New York and other
large cities. She is deserving of great
honor from the women of the Church, and
the women of the world everywhere, for
what she has done for the uplifting of
womanhood.
	The Utah Society Daughters of the
Revolution met Nov. 15, 1902, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Caroline Y. Cannon, Cannon
Farm, and were handsomely entertained in
her elegant home.	It was the Thanks-
giving meeting and the paper was entitled,
“Origin of Thanksgiving, First Thanks-
giving in New England, Record of official
appointments of days of Thanksgiving in
Massachusetts Bayand Plymouth, Occasion-
al thanksgiving days appointed by the Dutch
Governors of New York in New Nether-

(Column 2)
lands, and by the English Governors of
New York, Thanksgiving a national day
during the Revolution. When recommended
by Congress, The New England Thanks-
giving.”	There were items of business,
minutes, letters, etc., and there was a fairly
good attendance of members and a few
invited guests.	Mrs. Willard T. Cannon
sang for the ladies which was a rare treat,
she has a very melodious voice and an ex-
pressive style, the song was “Ramona,” a 
comparatively new song, (at any rate new
to the writer) and one into which the sing-
er may put great feeling, making it very
soulful, as much so even as the old favorite
song, “Josephine.” Refreshments were
served afler the style of  New England
Thanksgiving—baked beans, pumpkin pie,
and all the dainties that make thanksgiving
real with the daintiest of china and snowy
linen, etc  The December meeting will be
a Boston Tea Party at the residence of Mr.
and Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth, 139 E. South
Temple. The paper will be given by Mrs.
Maria Y Dougall and is entitled “Remin-
scences of James Otis, John Adams, John
Hancock, Samuel Adams, Paul Revere,
Patrick Henry, Benjamin Franklin, Peyton
Randolph, Robert Morris, Thomas Jeffer-
son, Silas Deane, Alexander Hamilton,
James Madison and Thomas Paine.”
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held
its annual meeting Saturday, Nov.
1, 1902. The club was organized October
31, 1891, and generally holds its annual
meeting on that day(Hallowe’en) but as the
Federation was in session in Ogden, the
meeting was postponed to the first of
November. Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, the
president was at Ogden representing the
club and attending the Federation. The
first on the program was the retiring presi-
dent, Mrs. Alder, who gave an address up-
on Art in Paris, which was both instructive
and entertaining, there were two recitations,
one by Miss Fox and one by Miss Frankie
Young, some excellent music by Prof. C.
D. Schettler on the mandolin which was
very delightful; the young ladies also added
charm to the entertainment. Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp in behalf of the club made a telling
speech in presenting the retiring president
with a volume of Tennyson handsomely
bound and illustrated, given as an ex-
pression of appreciation for her year’s
work for the club and the friendship of the
ladies with whom, and for whom, she has
given time and talent. This was followed
by the election of officers for the ensuing
year and resulted as follows: President,
Elizabeth. S. Wilcox; Vice-presidents,
Annie T. Widtsoe and Emma Jensen;
Cor. Sec., Dr. R. B. Pratt; Rec. Sec.,
Estelle Neff; Treasurer, Rebecca E. Doolan.
The next meeting will be November 30,
8 o’clock p. m., WOMAN'S EXPONENT
office.


MISS ANTHONY INTERVIEWED.
	“It was fifty years ago last May that we
met first, at Seneca Falls, when we were
both young women in our prime. There
has been an unbroken friendship from that
day to this. We did not agree on every
point, but on the central point of woman
suffrage we always agreed, and that was
the pivotal question.
	“Through the early days when the world
was against us, we stood together. Mrs.
Stanton was always a courageous woman


a leader of thought and new movements
I always called her the philosopher and
statesman of our movement. She was a
finished writer.
	“When she was able to attend our con-
ventions we always had an opening address.
I called her a word artist, while I was the
worker. If I wanted anything done, any
appeals to Congress or Legislatures written,
put my bonnet on and went to see Mrs.
Stanton. It spoiled me for writing myself,
for I always had her to lean on. It was
only last week that she wrote Mrs. Ida H.
Harper, asking her to edit her speeches as
soon as Mrs. Harper had finished the last
volume of the ‘History of Woman Suffrage,’
on which we are now working. There are
more than 200 of these speeches, which she
has had labeled and sorted and placed in an
old-fashioned chest of drawers. She was
intensely interested in the last volume of
the ‘History of Woman Suffrage,’ soon to
be given to the public, and every week we
received letters containing suggestions, and
asking that this and that be included in it.
She was looking forward with so much
pleasure to the completion of the book, and
her most ardent wish was that she might
live to see it. The last letter received from
her was one of her strongest and brightest.
She said she intended to have all her work
out of the way so that she could have the 
book read to her from beginning to end.
We are so disappointed to think she can
never see it that we cannot be reconciled.
It contains scores of speeches. And every
week or so we would receive letters from
her asking us if we were using this speech
or that.”
	The last time Miss Anthony saw Mrs.
Stanton was in June, and the two parted
very cheerfully:
	Miss Anthony said:
	“I cannot express myself at all as I feel.
I am too crushed to say much, but if she
had outlived me she would have found fine
words with which to express our friendship.
I cannot say it in words.”
	“What periods of your lives gave you
the greatest pleasure?” was asked.
	“When we were digging together. When
she forged the thunderbolts and I fired
them.”—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


The Armies of the World as a Universal Police
				Force.
	A PEACE NOTE TO THE POWERS.
To his [Imperial] Majesty {King	Emperor} of....
SIRE;
MOST GRACIOUS SOVEREIGN:
	In view of the fact that weapons of war-
fare have now become so formidable and
destructive as to render war almost as
calamitous for the victor as for the van-
quished, especially when the opposing
forces are about equal in numbers and re-
sources; and further, in view of the fact
that the settlement of international differ-
ences by fire and sword is unsatisfactory,
an outrage on humanity, and civilization, I
beg humbly to submit to your majesty that,
	As a Civil Cause is tried by a Judge and
Jury in a Court, of Justice, so also should a
Supreme Court be constituted for the trial
and judgment of the causes of nations. The
Sovereigns of all Christian States, with
their respective Prime Ministers, should,
with this object, form such a Court, to
whose judgments the Governments of dis-


puting nations should be compelled to submit.
	Each Sovereign Party on the Jury should
be bound to contribute a portion of his
Military Strength to co-operate with all
other Sovereign Parties in enforcing, if
necessary, the judgment of the Supreme
Court. In this way would the armies of
the Christian World—instead of being a
menace to Peace—be as a Police force mak-
ing for the peace of the world; as it is
highly improbable that, any two disputing
parties, however strong or great, could
afford to defy the combined forces of the
Christian World.
	It may be advanced that some of the
Sovereign Parties constituting the Court
might not act in good faith, nor be dis-
posed to a decision in accordance with
justice. Such Sovereign Parties having
personal and private interests to subserve,
must, in a Council of at least twelve Sover-
eign Parties, necessarily be in a minority,
and therefore could not, with the whole
world looking on, openly advocate—nor
could they well secretly connive at a course
at variance with truth and righteousness.
The moral effect alone of such a scheme as is
proposed would go far to justify the attempt.
	I humbly submit to your Majesty that
all Sovereigns who may resolve to favorably
consider the foregoing outlined proposition,
may be sure of the sympathy and support
therein of all their loyal subjects and of all
men of good will for humanity is groaning
under the burden of Militarism and wants
Peace.
	I have the honor to be, Sire, Your
Majesty’s humble and obedient Servant,
			ARNOLD DE LISLE.
	Netherton, Dudley, Worcestershire,
		16th August, 1902.
	Up to the time of going to press, acknowledg-
ments and expressions of approval have been re-
ceived from King Edward, the Czar Nicolas, King
Victor Emmanuel, and President Loubet.


R. S. REPORTS.
PAROWAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Parowan Stake was held on Sunday at
Kanarra.
	The reports showed that the ward organ-
izations were up to date in good, practical
service. Parowan ward had done unusual
heavy duty in caring for the sick and aged
for the past six months, while the Cedar
ward, besides responding to the many calls
made to their organization, had a work to
perform not expected in the other wards,
for it is there that our able physician, Dr.
George Middleton receives, and patients
from every part of the Stake apply to him
for operations and medical treatment, and
the needy, of which there is quite a per
cent, are provided for and cared for in
every necessary way by the Relief Society
band.
	The Kanarra sisters have made over
seventy yards of carpet for their nearly
completed assembly room, and are now
contributing to buy lamps for the same.
	The largest turnout remembered at a
conference were present, a beautiful spirit
prevailed. Frank Thorley (son of the
Cedar City president) and Ada Wood, of
the same place, assisted charmingly with
a number of vocal selections, also one of
the Kanarra sisters. Of the Stake presi-
dency Counselors Bayles and Watson were
present, President Ollerton not being able
to leave her aged mother.

[Column 2]
	The Parowan Ward organizations are
planning for their annual wood haulers
party and supper, when they usually dis-
tribute $100.00 worth of wood, and quite a
reunion and revival is the result
			E. CRANE WATSO.
MARICOPA.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake, held in the Mesa Relief
Society hall, September 18, 1902, First
Counselor Melissa C. J. Hunsaker presid-
ing. Opened with the usual exercises.
Counselor Melissa C. J. Hunsaker re-
greted the absence of our kind and loving
president, who had been called to Mexico
to visit a sick daughter.
	Six wards were reported with the excep-
ception of Pine, all six had been visited by
the officers of the Stake during the last
quarter. All were in fairly good work-
ing order, with an average attendance.
The health of the people was generally
good.
	Second Counselor Amelia Horne followed
on the same line, subjects of punctuality;
willingness to perform duties the raising
of families and the blessings gained there-
by tithing and how to pay it, and that our
members might increase until we would
have to repair to the Stake Tabernacle also
missionary work.
	During the afternoon session none of the
priesthood were with us, we missed their
influence and the motherly voice of our
president also, still we had an excellent
conference.
	Adjourned for three months. Closed
with the usual exercises.
			A. E. L. FULLER, Sec.
JORDAN STAKE.
	The Jordan Stake Relief Society con-
vened in conference November 4, at 10
a. m. Prayer was offered by Elder L.
Smith.
	Twelve of the branches were reported by
the officers, all in a thriving condition,
ample means on hand for their needs and
all have wheat stored away. Counselor
Hilda H. Larson pronounced the benedic-
tion.
	At 1 p. m. President Hyrum Goff and
Counselor J. W. W. Fitzgerald were in
attendance. Prayer was offered by Coun-
selor J. W. W. Fitzgerald. President Mar-
inda Bateman felt pleased with the reports
given. Exhorted all to be alive to their
duties, the teachers especially.
	Counselor Hilda H. Larson gave some
very encouraging words to the sisters.
	Counselor Agnes Cutler encouraged all of
the Relief Society workers, especially the
teachers.
	President Hyrum Goff felt to endorse all
that had been said; said that the real worthy
poor are those that never ask, they are the
ones that need looking after.
	Counselor J. W. W. Fitzgerald gave a
strong talk to the mothers about instruct-
ing their daughters on the necessity of
marrying in the Temple of God.
	Bishop John A. Egbert felt well paid for
the time spent in meeting with the sisters.
	Three aids were appointed and set apart
to labor in the Jordan Stake—Sisters Leah
Fitzgerald and Elizabeth Day, of Draper,
and Ariminta E. Egbert, of West Jordan.
Benediction by Edward Rushton.
		ELIZABETH GARDNER, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM
		ANN WAINER PICKERING.
	It is with the deepest regret that we are called
upon to record the death of our beloved sister,
Ann Wainer Pickering, who died at her home in
Payson, September 1, 1902.
	Sister Pickering was born at Yorkshire, Eng-
land, January 26, 1855. She was the wife of
George Pickering, by whom she had nine children,
seven of whom survive her. When the Relief
Society was organized there in 1868, she was set
apart as a presiding teacher in the first district of
Payson ward, and at the time of her death was
one of the board of directors, and proved herself
worthy of the position. She was always on hand
and willing to do her share of whatever work was
assigned her. She was true and faithful to her
convictions and loyal to the cause she had es-
poused, instructing her children in the everlasting
Gospel.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of
the Stake Relief Society, do feel to tender our
love and sympathy to the memory of our beloved
sister.
	That we feel to humbly bow to the divine will
is of our Heavenly Father and acknowledge His
hand in all things.
	That we realize that in Sister Pickering we have
lost a true friend and faithful laborer in the work
of God.
	That a copy of this memorial be sent to the be-
reaved family, one placed on the records of the
Relief Society and one be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication.
					JANE SIMONS,
					AMY HANCOCK
							Committe.
		HARRIET A. WILCOX.
A Token of Respect to the Memory of Our
			Beloved Sister.
	Harriet A. Wilcox departed this life September
29, 1902.
	Sister Wilcox was born in Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete
Co., on the 27th of December, 1863, and was mar-
ried to Brother James Wilcox October 27, 1881.
Eleven children were born to Brother and Sister
Wilcox, seven of whom survive her. She held the
position of second counselor in the Relief Society
in Castle Dale, for three years when it was first
organized. As a wife, mother and friend her
example was worthy of imitation. She was one of
the noblest of God’s handmaids, and was faithful
through all trials and tribulations that beset her
pathway. And we, as members of the Relief
Society of Castle Dale Ward of the Emery Stake
of Zion adopt the following resolutions:
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas God has seen fit to call from this life
our beloved sister, Harriet A. Wilcox,
	Resolved, that we mourn in her death the loss
of a faithful worker, a comforter in time of trouble, 
a devoted wife and mother and a true Latter-day
Saint.
	That we esteem her faithful labors as worthy of
emulation by every member of the society; that we
sympathize and mourn with the husband, children,
relatives and friends; that we send a copy of these
resolutions to the WOMAN’S EXPON[-]NT for publica-
tion that a copy be kept in the Society, and that
one be given to the family.
				MARY J. S[-]ELY, Pres.
				SARAH S. LARSEN, Sec.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas in the dispensation of an all-wise and
over-ruling Providence, our much beloved sister 
Anna Englehart Jones a teacher in the Payson
First Ward Relief Society since its organization,
has passed to another sphere; and
	Whereas her usefulness was universal, and her
unselfishness remarkable, and in her administera-
tions to the sick she was as an angel of mercy, her
genial presence as golden sunshine and her words
a balm of life, her integrity immovable as 
the solid rock, and her mercy for others unbounded as
the ocean; and
	Whereas we all feel the loss of so energetic and
faithful a worker, such a devoted Saint and loving
mother, now, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that these resolutions of respect be
placed upon the records of the Payson First Ward
Relief Society, and that a copy be sent to the fam-
ily and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
tion.
					FANNIE SIMONS,
					ELIZA B. McCLELLAN,
					CLARA E. R. EVANS.
							Committee.


ALPINE STAKE.
	Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Alpine Stake, held Friday, October 24,
1902, at American Fork.
	Meeting convened at 10 a. m., President
Standrng presiding. After the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer, roll call and
reading of minutes, etc., President Stand-
ring said she was - here through the faith
and prayers of the sisters, having been sick
all the week. Desired the presidents to
give a thorough report of their wards, but
as brief as was wisdom. “We are organ-
ized to bless the sick and poor, also the
mothers in Israel; for many have testified
to the blessings they have received through
the administration of the sisters.” Prayed
for a blessing on all this day.
	Counselor Anderson reported Lehi Relief
Society; President Orpha Robinson re-
ported American Fork 1st ward; Counselor
Annie S. Chipman, 2nd ward; President
Sarah Foutz, Pleasant Grove; President
Cordelia Thorn, Linden; President Sarah
Marsh, Alpine; President Mary E. Abel,
3rd ward American Fork; President Annie
T. Steele, 4th ward; President Fannie
Berry, Cedar Valley.
	The presidents all gave encouraging re-
ports. They have good, faithful teachers
who visit the people, help the poor and
care for the sick. All have good granaries
and a good showing of wheat. All hold
Mothers’ and Daughters’ meetings and en-
joy them very much, and are striving to do
their duty in every way.
	President Standring was well pleased
with the reports.
	President A. J Evans, of the Stake presi-
dency, addressed the sisters. Saw the neces-
sity of sustaining those who are in authori-
ty. “We become a part of those whom we
are associated with. We are growing and
spreading and will eventually triumph.
Our destiny is to inhabit North and South
America. We are increasing in numbers
and power. The gathering of the wheat is a
right move and it will be all right whether
for food or for seed.”
Adjourned after singing, “How firm a
foundation,” and benediction by President
A J. Evans.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Conference con-
tinued at 2 o’clock. Meeting opened by
singing and prayer.
	President Standring spoke of. the nurses’
class, thought there bad been some mis-
understanding concerning it; referred to the
instructions given in the Relief Society
pamphlet, looked upon it as a mission given
to the sisters, and besides doing their duty
they would receive great benefit themselves.
“It is the duty of every president to report
to Sister Phebe Y. Beatie concerning this
matter. The knowledge of our own bodies
is beyond price.” Spoke of the conjoint
meeting of the four wards of American
Fork, said, “It will unite you more effec-
tually. If you save souls, you must let
your light shine. The Stake presidency
will expect to meet with you and talk to
you. Get acquainted with those who do
not belong to the Relief Society and try to
bring them in. It is a great blessing to
belong to the Relief Society; the sheep
should be anxious to know that the shep-
herd is watching over them. Whoever
sees the next decade will see great changes.
	Stake President Stephen S. Chipman had
been well pleased with the spirit and re-
marks of President Standring. Regreted

[Column 2]
that more had not responded to the call to
train for nurses, could see how much their
services were needed. It requiresan effort
to go and take these studies; it requires an
effort for Sister Standring to come here and
perform her duties, and bless and strength-
us. Read from the Juvenile Instructor the
article, “Raffling,” and recommended that
raffling be not practised any more. “It is
a grand sight to see our sisters assembled
here, and I pray that peace and unity may
abide among us.”
	Singing, “I need Thee every hour.” 
	Stake Aid Laura Cutler recommended
that the young ladies attend our meetings
sometimes and learn how we conduct our
business so that when they go away from
home they may have something to say
about the Relief Society.
	Stake Aid Sina Chipman said, “This has
been a spiritual feast to us, this kind of
meeting does our hearts good. We like the
encouraging reports of our sisters, and we
like the influence of the good spirit that
prevails
	Bishop Warren B. Smith said, “The
sisters are always on the alert to do good.
The counsel we have received today is
priceless. Here are sisters who have borne
the burden and heat of the day in this
work, but they will be remembered for all
the labor they have performed.”
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley spoke
of the influence of our people over out-
siders when we come in contact with them.
If we expect our children to be true Latter-
day Saints we must be Latter-day Saints
ourselves, we do not want to set a bad ex-
ample before our children, we must fall in
line with the Priesthood.
	President A. J. Evans believed that the
sisters had more faith than the brethren.
“There are are many of your daughters
growing into womanhood, the mothers
should teach them the reason of their being
here, and the necessity of preparing for
motherhood, this is woman’s mission.”
Advised the sisters not to sign a mortgage
unless the honor of their husbands was at
stake.
	Brother William South wick: “The Lord
made no mistake when he organized this
society; what would we have done without
it? I go to no better meeting than these,
the sisters have more faith, are more de-
voted and accomplish more than the breth-
ren in this line.” He would use his influ-
ence in favor of nurses’ classes.
Conference adjourned for three months
with singing and prayer.

EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Stake Sec.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The minutes of the Semi-monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th ward hall, Saturday,
September 27, 1902, Sister E. J. Stevenson
presiding. 
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie addressed the sis-
ters in behalf of Sister Emma Empey con-
cerning the class of nurses that would com-
mence the first of November, spoke of the
benefit to be derived from being a nurse,
the good they could do, and what a help
they would be to the Bishops of the differ-
ent wards, in being able to know where to 
go for help in case of sickness; she urged
the sisters to take an interest in the class
and help Dr Roberts in the good work.


[Column 1]
	Sister Stevenson then spoke to the sis-
ters; she felt happy to be able to come to
meeting; referred to the poor, how she de-
sired to help and relieve them, what a
blessing Dr. Roberts had been to the Relief
Society in teaching the sisters to be nurses;
what a benefit it was to the sisters them-
selves, as well as those they go to nurse;
she instructed the mothers to live in har-
mony in their homes, that there might be
no contentions; we should be missionaries
at home; spoke of the evil existing in our
midst; urged the mothers to know where
their children were at night, and not allow
them to stay up late at nights, but to keep
good hours; spoke of the many who were
going astray, said mothers should be on the
watchguard at all times and know where
their children are at all hours.
	Sister Callister, from Filmore, said she
felt to endorse what had been said; she had
been a president of the Relief Society for
eighteen years, she felt her weakness but
desired to do all the good she could, to re-
lieve the poor and suffering.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon felt to im-
press the sisters to put in practice what
they had heard and bring their children up
in the right way; said we should all be
kind and thoughtful of those who come
from foreign lands as strangers, help them
to become acquainted and feel at home.
	Sister Carlie Cannon bore her testimony
to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said if we teach
our chi[-]dren the right way while they are
young, although they may think it hard at
the time, they will be thankful when they
grow older. “There is always pleasure in
doing good.” 
	Sister Ball bore her testimony, desired to
do right. Sister Brown said we should
all teach our children to do right; referred
to the good that is done in the Temple for
those that are dead, we should all try fo
make a good record.
	Sister Jacobs felt thankful for the testi-
mony of the Gospel she had had; spoke of
the trial she had passed through in burying
her son who had returned from a mission
sick and had since died; but she felt to say,
“Thy will be done, oh Lord,” and was
thankful that her son had been faithful to
the Lord to the last.
	Sister Martha Morris then sang a hymn.
	Sister Martha Morris and Sister Wright
bore faithful testimonies.
	Sister Castleton felt that the spirit of the
Lord was with us; referred to the Sunday
School conference, how she enjoyed it, and
how the visitors in the city are gaining in-
formation from the information bureau
thought it was a good thing for the people.
	Sisters Taylor, Peterson and Williamson
bore faithful testimonies to the Gospel.
	Sister Rosella Hunter bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel; said that our
children were our first care, we should al-
ways set a good example.
	Sister Barrell felt that our children should
have great care; there is a great deal of

[Column 2]
wretchedness in the city; she felt to trust in
the Lord.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
			AMELIA WADROP, Sec.

	Ladies’ Meeting 14th ward hall, Novem-
ber 1, 1902, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises Sister Stevenson spoke of the good-
ness of Sister Mary Ellen Kimball, who had
recently passed away from mortality, of her
faithfulness to the Gospel, her earnest de-
sire to do every duty, to pay her tithing
down to the very last cent, thought it was
a trial to part from those we loved, but we
should learn to say in the words of the
Savior, “Thy will be done, O Lord, not
mine.” Thought it a consolation to attend
the funerals of the faithful Latter-day Saints
	Counselor E. Webb was thankful for the
Relief Society, it was to do good both to the
living and the dead; said let us be ready
for the life to come; we are living in peculiar
times, and we should be united, for where
there is union there, is strength.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn, also
bore, her testimony to the Gospel and urged
all present to be faithful.
	Sisters Hilton, Sanders and Seabeck bore
faithful testimonies.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt to appreciate
the Gospel more than ever. “It is better
to give than to receive; the Relief Society
has been a blessing to me, the office of a
teacher is a responsible position; if the
young sisters will join they will be blest.”
	Sister Jones endorsed what had been said
of Mary Ellen Kimball, referred to the trial
of losing four of her family. 
	Sisters Peterson, Leaker and Spiers bore
their testimony.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon spoke con-
cerning faith in administering to the sick, 
thought it better to call on the Lord in
times of sickness than to depend on the
doctors; she knew the Gospel was true and
that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie bore her testimony
and then asked the sisters to assist in find-
ing homes for those who had come to join
the nurses’ class, urged the sisters to help
in this matter.
	Sisters Ball, Squires and Hagman prom-
ised to assist all in their power, and Coun-
selor Sarah J. Cannon asked the sisters to
remain a few minutes after the meeting as
she wished to speak to them.
	Sister Stevenson in her closing remarks
referred to the Word of Wisdom, thought
we would have less sickness if we observed
it. Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
singing, doxology. Benediction, Sister
Mary Mair.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. TRY US


Obstetrics and Nursing.
DR. MARGARET E. ROBERTS
Will commence a class in Obstetrics and
Nursing, January 5th, 1903.
For further particulars write to
DR. ROBERTS.
55 North State St.  Telephone 449


Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit i.
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.

The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minos[-]
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW. 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year.

WRITE for any information desired.
Joseph F. Smith, Prest. 
George M. Cannon, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


We are glad to be able to state that Mrs. 
Chester E. Coulter, of Ogden, has been
elected to the Legislature on the Republican
ticket. Mrs Coulter is a very able and
finely educated woman, and a graduate of
the Law department of the University of
Michigan.—EDITOR.


Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who died
on October 26, vindicated, so far as she
herself was concerned, her theory that it
would be profitable for women to take an
active part in public affairs. She lived to
be eighty-seven. She had been active in
public concerns ever since her girlhood,
and it seemed to agree well with her. In
the early days of the woman’s rights agi-
tation, before the civil war, the centre of
the storm was usually where Mrs. Stanton
happened to be. But the stress of conflict
never harmed her. She married at twenty-
five, brought up six children, and was be-
loved in her own household, as well as out-
side of it, but all the time, she battled for
the cause she had undertaken, and held a
conspicuous place in the world of agitation.
She lived happily to a great age. Miss
Anthony who shared her labors, her battles
and her honors has also turned fourscore
and still maintains a strong hold on life. She
is eighty-two. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe is a
little older. The strenuous life, it seems,
maybe lived by women as well as men
without prejudice to vitality.
						—Ex


Woman’s Exponent
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31 						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1 & 15, 1902 							Nos. 13-14


CONTENTS.
Thanksgiving Day.............................E. B. W.	4
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting....A. Wadrop	5
Timely Suggestions........................................	50
Pueblo, Colorado.................Mary Cummings	51
In Memoriam......................Mattie B. Hanson	54
Tenth Annual Celebrated.........Julia A. Druce	55
Obituaries.......................................................	55
R. S. Report—Woodruff Stake..K. H. Eppich	55
Ancient Relics................................................	56
Notes and News..............................................	56
EDITORIAL—Christmas Thoughts..............	52
	Editorial Notes........................................	52
	Testimonial to Sister M. I. Horne...........	52
POETRY—The Christmas Saint.A W. Cannon	49
	Christmas Carols............Lydia D. Alder	51
	Mother’s Birthday.......L. L. G. Richards	51


[Column 1]
THE CHRISTMAS SAINT.
'Tis Christmas, and o'er all this fair, broad earth
The bells again proclaim the royal birth.
-----------------
It was in Bethlehem, in Judea,
	Hundreds of years ago, 
That Mary in her travail
	Of anguish and of woe,
Felt that joyous heart-throb
	Thrill to her inmost soul
With the first faint sound
	Of that little cry,
And tears beyond control
	Shed in joy, in rapture rather
With the thought of the gladsome gift
	She had brought the world from
heaven,
Men’s sorrows to uplift.

Cradled once in lowly way
	The King of Kings, the Prince of
		Peace
Even in a manger lay,
	But the shepherds came to worship
And the wise men gathered too,
	Bringing gifts of wondrous workman-
		ship,
For very well they knew
	Of the promise of the Christ child,
And guided by the star,
	As they wandered o’er the desert
From their travelings afar
	They sought the lowly manger
Where shone the light divine,
	There the mother clasped her baby
And they called the place a shrine.

And so throughout the centuries
	With love for that glad morn
Have men brought gifts and been
	With kindness newly born,
And a greater love than ever
	Permeates the heart, when
The Christmas bells are ringing
	‘‘Peace on earth good will to men."

The mother of that long ago, 
	A saint we deem her now;
And our fancy clothes her royally
	With a halo o’er her brow
’Mid clouds of angels picture her 
	Reigning a gracious queen
For within her arms there nestled once
	The child of Joseph’s dream
The mother of the Savior !
	Oh wondrous thought divine !
No wonder that sweet motherhood
	Is called a holy shrine

Could she have known the sorrow
	The torture and despair
That waited for his manhood,
	Like a thief within his lair,
Could she have seen the thorny crown
	Have known how friends betrayed
Have dreamed of Calvary and the cross
	Would she then have prayed
That a child might be given her
	A child to call her own,
To care for and to cherish
	In her fond heart alone ?

[Column 2]
Ah yes! and every mother
	Since that sainted one of old
Feels those self-same heart throbs
	When her babe she first enfolds
And the joy of the moment
	Surmounts all future fears
As she clasps her little darling
	And ’mid her smiles and tears
Casts aside all thoughts of sorrow
	In this new-born joy so sweet—
The first kiss of her baby
	From its mother’s life, complete.

Yet life always has a shadow
	And it deepens with the years,
And the mother, sees the outlines
	First, through tender fears—
She wonders how the little steps will
	lengthen,
	How the little mind will grow,
If life’s struggles will be valiant
	Or weak and vain and slow.
And from babyhood to manhood
	Her thoughts but breathe a prayer
For the child that God has given
	Unto her tender care.

What wonder that at Christmas
	All the world is full of joy,
And the heart is full of gladness
	For every girl and boy;
Is it alone the Christ child
	That stirs the world to giving,
Or the sacred thought of mother
	That actuates the living
To deeds of love and kindness,
	To thoughts of peace divine ?
Every Christmas more than ever
	Is her knee a holy shrine.

All through our years of childhood
	As we lisped our prayers of grace,
We remember how the lovelight
	Shone through her dear, sweet face,
And every thought of mother
	Is treasured as divine
And we surely make no error
	When we call her heart a shrine;
For our secrets safe are hid
	Within its sacred wall
Where no key but love can open.
	And so we do recall,
That always at the Christmas
	When joys and gifts abound
And songs of praise, and words of peace
	Are passing ’round,
That the saint we most adore,
	And you’ll grant there is no other
If each man the truth would tell
	Is his own sweet, tender mother.
					ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


[Column 1]
		THANKSGIVING DAY.
	The Origin of Thanksgiving: There
are two opinions that may be cited in 
regard to the origin of Thanksgiving;
the one which is generally, or quoted most
widely, is that it was suggested by the 
Hebrew feast of tabernacles, or feast of in-
gathering at the end of the year. The 
English people, however, claim it is after
the manner of their “Harvest home,” which
it is said dates back to the early days of the
Druids, with whom the custom originated. 
In the agricultural districts of England more
especially in Suffolk County, the festival
of the harvest home is kept with great hi-
larity, and is not at all a religious observ-
ance. It occurs simultaneously with what 
is known as the harvest moon. Hay racks 
decorated with bright drapery and gar-
landed with gorgeous flowers piled high 
with hay, also the horses decked out, are 
drawn about full of girls and boys seated 
aloft on the hay, singing through the streets

[Column 2]
till midnight, after the outdoor feasts of 
roast oxen, etc., and often these young peo-
ple are uproarious in their demonstrations 
of jollity. This custom could not have pre-
vailed or even been allowed among the 
early Puritans.
	The earliest Thanksgiving in America
was kept by the Pilgrim Fathers and their 
families at Plymouth in 1621, just one year
after they landed on that cold, bleak and 
desolate shore. They were intensely zeal-
ous and trusted in divine providence implic-
itely, indeed had they not been fired with
religious fervor they could never have en-
dured the hardships and privations that fell 
to their lot. There is very little upon record
of what they had to eat on that occasion,
but their hearts were filled with gratitude 
to God, that their lives had been preserved 
in the new land among savage Indians, and 
they were glad to have liberty to worship
Him as their own consciences dictated.
Legends and poets tell us that the feast con-
sisted of wild game, such as venison and
wild turkey, and that the venison was furn-
ished by Miles Standish, whose success in 
hunting in the forests was a feature of his re-
markable career; besides these meats they 
had ears of corn roasted at the great wood fires 
in the wilderness, as the Indians had taught
them; they had no miik, for cows were not 
brought until the fourth year. We can
only picture to ourselves what constituted
the menu; but of one part of the program we
may feel positive; that there was preaching
of the word of God, singing of hymns and 
fervent prayers of gratitude. This custom
of observing Thanksgiving was repeated 
often, we are told, in subsequent years, be-
ing appointed by the churches; also that it 
became customary for the governors of the 
colonies to appoint a fast day in the spring 
for fasting and prayer and a day of thanks-
giving in the autumn for gratitude and for 
mercies vouchsafed, and a fruitful harvest.
The winters were long and cold and the pil-
grims had very few comforts.
	There are positive official records of ap-
pointments of thanksgiving by the Gover-
nors of Massachusetts, in Massachusetts 
Bay in 1633, 1634, 1637, 1638 and 1639, 
and in Plymouth in 1651, 1668 1680, 1689
and 1690. This does not by any means
prove that Thanksgiving was not observed 
in other intervening years, but that these are
the only dates on record of such appoint-
ments. indeed it is stated on good authority 
that Thanksgiving was kept annually in 
New England from 1633.
	It must have been very difficult to keep
correct records of everything, considering 
the peculiar life of those Pilgrims and its
environments in a new land among Indians 
and amid the great forests.
	Occasional Thanksgiving days were ap-
pointed by tha Dutch governors of New York
in New Netherlands: These we find were 
in 1644, 1645, 1655 and 1664, and by the 
English governors of New York in 1755
and 1760, but their thanksgiving days were
much more elaborately celebrated in regard
to display than the thanksgiving days in 
New England. The Dutch women dressed 
in bright costumes, with much jewelry and


[Column 1]
many ornaments and wore bright red stock-
ings (knitted open work) and high-heeled 
slippers, displaying, it is said, very pretty 
ankles and feet; they also indulged in 
dancing, which was not admissible among 
the Puritans. The Puritan maidens wore 
homespun, generally gray, with the white 
kerchief, cap and apron. The condition of 
the New York and New Netherlands peo-
ple and the people of Massachusetts Bay
and Plymouth was distinctively marked;
the Dutch people who settled there came 
for commercial purposes, well equipped 
and with plenty of money to carry on trade;
they were merchantmen, ship owners, etc., 
while the Pilgrims fled from their homes 
and possessions on account of religious 
persecution, because they would not con-
sent to the domination of the Mother 
Church. Their property in many instances 
was confiscated and they were exiled—a
striking parallel to the people of the Church 
of Latter-day Saints. 
	History tells us in brief that Thanksgiv-
ing was annually kept throughout the col-
onies during the war of the Revolution,
but we fail to find much of anything con-
cerning its observance, it is left almost 
entirely to the imagination to conjecture. 
To one born and reared in New England, 
where Thanksgiving was annually kept, it 
seems strange to hunt up material, it is 
such a common occurrence that one would
not be likely to consider how it originated,
but only that it was a natural thing to be 
taken for granted without question. 
	In 1784 Congress recommended a special 
day of public thanksgiving to be observed 
on account of the return of peace—peace
having been permanently restored. After this 
general appointment of thanksgiving for 
peace in 1784, there was no national ap-
pointment until just before Congress ad-
journed in September, 1789, when it re-
quested the President to recommend a day 
of public thanksgiving and prayer for the 
whole nation after the adoption of the Con-
stitution; in acknowledgement of the signal 
favor of the Almighty in permitting them 
to establish a new government. 
	The President, George Washington, ap-
pointed Thursday, November 26, 1790. It 
was generally observed and was the first na-
tional religious holiday in our history. 
	The next public Thanksgiving day was 
appointed by the President, George Wash-
ington, in 1795 for the general benefit and 
welfare of the nation. The next appoint-
ment of a public thanksgiving was by 
President James Madison in 1815, which 
was also to celebrate the return of peace 
after the close of the war of 1812. 
	During the civil war President Abraham 
Lincoln issued a national proclamation of
the annual thanksgiving day in 1863 and in 
1864. Since that time when Lincoln set 
the example, such a proclamation has been 
issued annually by the President of the 
United States and custom has fixed the 
time for the last Thursday in November. 
This proclamation of the President is al-
ways followed by proclamations of various 
governors, who alone have authority to 
declare a legal holiday in their respective
states.
	It is safe to say that the Pilgrims of New 
England set this example of observing a 
day of thanksgiving and prayer, which was 
continued and annually kept, and which 
has been the pattern since followed by the 
whole United States. 
	If I were to say the celebration of Thanks-

[Column 2]
giving in New England was like the Christ-
mas in England—which has its counterpart 
in Utah—it would be just about correct. 
Thanksgiving there is the great day of the 
closing year, and in my childhood even, we 
were not allowed to celebrate Christmas. It 
savored too much of Church of England;
and the Puritans had discarded and dis-
owned all the forms and ceremonies of that 
Church, even to the tall steeples on the 
meeting houses, and were called dissenters, 
independents and the like
	There is one point in which it differed wide-
ly from Christmas, which is in the giving of
presents; and it was much more strictly and 
rigidly religious. Everything possible in 
the way of preparation in the house and 
home to save labor on that day was done 
beforehand, and people always attended 
meetings on Thanksgiving as much as on 
Sunday, only there was but one service and 
that was held in the forenoon, the choirs 
always preparing something extra for that
day—in the way of singing anthems of 
praise; and the sermons were fervent ad-
monitions to the congregations to be thank-
ful to God for His mercies and blessings 
vouchsafed to them. 
	Usually many of the people went in the 
evening to places of public amusement. 
	The houses, especially the living and 
dining rooms were elaborately decorated 
with evergreens, which abound in New 
England, and the late autumn flowers, main-
ly chrysanthemums, and the loaded dinner 
tables were proverbial. Thanksgiving din-
ner was never complete without roast turk-
ey and often young pigs roasted whole,
baked beans was another essential luxury,
mince and pumpkin pies, fruit cake and 
plum pudding, not the English plum pud-
ding, but plum pudding made of rice or 
Boston crackers, full of raisins and sticks of
cinnamon, and innumerable varieties of vege-
tables, fruits and nuts were on the table. 
	Outdoor games by the boys were also in-
dulged in after dinner, and very often there 
was good skating as early as Thanksgiving 
time in that cold climate. People also went 
in the evening to places of public amuse-
ment or lectures, etc., but family parties 
were considered the most enjoyable, the 
married sons and daughters coming home 
with their little ones to join the family cir-
cle, where childhood hours and reminiscen-
ces of the past were recalled and the old 
songs familiar in by-gone days were sung; 
often one remembering only a verse or a 
line, but all joining in a sort of medley, ac-
companied by such instrumental music as 
the home contained, generally violins, 
flutes and melodians. The new babies 
were always expected at Thanksgiving 
time by the grandparents, and sometimes 
four generations would be present on these 
occasions of Thanksgiving reunions. 
	The evening was spent socially around
the great open fireplaces, and if possible 
pine knots were always kindled on the 
hearth at Thanksgiving. Nuts, apples, 
candy, raisins and sweetmeats in abundance 
for the evening time, and in my day usually 
molasses candy or maple sugar and popcorn 
were the favorites. 
	Nowadays in New England when the 
houses are heated with a furnace, many of 
them have one large fire place built or pre-
pared for festive occasions where they can 
burn pine knots or great logs of wood. 
	Visiting New England a few years ago I 
found that this custom of primitive times 
was still observed with great favor among

[Column 3]
the old Puritan families and is much more 
in vogue than keeping Christmas, though 
they are becoming more and more like the 
English in forms and ceremonies as the old 
prejudices die out, but up among the New 
England villages the hatred of the Roman 
Catholics and their ways, their covents, 
their priests and their churches is very ap-
parent still—no doubt handed down by
history.
						E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
	The minutes of the Semi-monthly Meet-
ing that was held in the 14th ward hall,
Nov. 29, 1902, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding Singing, and minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted.
	President M. I. Horne then addressed
the sisters; said it was good to come togeth-
er and enjoy the spirit of the Lord, we
were living in the last days, she wondered
if we were all striving to do right; it was
sorrowful to know that some were not liv-
ing as they should, the little things of life
are what we feel most, we should be earnest
in calling upon the Lord for His blessing
it is our duty to train our children while
they are young in the principles of kind-
ness and obedience and always be true and
not deceive them that they may grow up to
be a blessing to the Church, that they may
always be ready to do their duty. Urged
all to appreciate the Gospel and its bless-
ings and to try and improve in the coming
year.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder had been visiting
the people in the North, giving lectures,
etc., had visited the Relief Society in con-
ferences and found the sisters doing good.
The Gospel gives us strength to do many
things. She felt Sister Horne was a mother
to the sisters; we should try and overlook
the faults of one another. When we meet
we should meet with love; what we do, do
in love.
	Sister J. C. Howe felt glad to hear the
sisters speak, we should always take
pleasure in doing what we are called upon
to do, she always took ple[-]sure in teaching
the children; urged all to come to meeting.
	Sister Wright, of Nephi, appreciated the
blessings of the Lord to her; she took
pleasure in the Relief Society, if we always
respond to all we are called upon to do we
will be blessed
	Sister Webb felt we were living in a great
day when many things were transpiring,
said what a good spirit was felt by those
who work in the Temple, we should re-
member the dead and seek the Lord with
all our hearts.
	Sister Castleton rejoiced in the Gospel,
thanked the Lord for His blessings to her
and referred to hearing President George
Q. Cannon speak on drinking tea and cof-
fee, told how she had overcome the habit and
not drank it since.
	President Horne thanked the sisters for
their kindness to her at her birthday testi-
monial in Barratt Hall. She felt to appre-
ciate their goodness and kind feeling.
	Sister Hardy felt to cling to the rod of
iron and be faithful until the end. Sister
Neil felt Sister Horne had been greatly blest
in her life; alluded to the prophecies now
being fulfilled.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks after
singing and prayer.
AMELIA WADROP, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS CAROLS.

On fair Judea’s verdant plains,
	The shepherds hear the heavenly strains,
The angel chorus sing in air,
	That tell a babe is born o’er there.
“To God give glory,” lo! they sing,
	And “hail, O earth, thy new-born King!”
The heav’nly worlds on high proclaim his birth,
	In glory blazing o’er the earth.

The wise men journey from afar,
	And follow close His guiding star;
It stands o’er Bethlehem tonight,
	Imposing, wondrous, is the sight.
O, hear the angels sing again,
	“On earth dawns peace, good will to men.”
He lowly in the manger’s laid,
	No room for Him can else be made.

An uncrowned king, He humbly lies,
	Who left a throne above the skies;
He comes to earth a tender babe—
	His courtly dress away is laid—
In swaddling clothes he sleeps tonight.
	Rejoice all nations at the sight,
The wise men worship, bowing low
	Their costly gifts they offer so.

They know that he is Judea’s King.
	Their perfumes bring an offering.
No earthly potentate is He,
	Nor sovereign great is he to be,
Yet He’s the long, long promised King;
	O earth, now let thy voices ring!
“To God give glory,” angels say,
	Who sent His Son to earth this day.

Now o’er the world is Christmas Tide,
	O, joyful hearts where songs abide,
Tell sweetest story of his love
	And why He left the courts above.
All things below, behold Him there,
	His bed of straw the cattle share;
Ye angels sing, O, sing again,
	To tell that He now dwells with men.

Let love abound from sea to sea,
	A foretaste of the heav’n to be;
When Christ shall be Almighty King,
	The all in all—sin’s offering,
To God the Highest, O, give ear,”
	Lo! Christ is come to us so near,
Our theme is Christ, for He is born,
	O, hail him King this Christmas morn.

		Then ring with joy ye Christmas bells,
		A story sweet your ringing tells
		O’er all the earth the echo swells,
		“In Bethlehem the Christ is born.”
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


MOTHER’S BIRTHDAY.
	[Song written for our honored Mother in Israel,
M. I. Horne, on her eighty-fourth birthday, Nov-
ember Twentieth, 1902. Tune, America.]

Our mother ever dear, 
Again the fleeting year
	Brings this glad day;
The day which claims thy birth,
The day which gave to earth
A gem of brighest worth,
	And purest ray.

How true thy life hath been,
How sanctified from sin
	Through suffering sore;
How long thy feet have strode
Life’s ofttimes dreary road,
When heavy was the load
	Thy shoulders bore!

But now, thy trials past, 
Good days are thine at last, 
	And heaven is near;
Its peaceful, perfect rest, 
E’en now pervades thy breast
While thousands call thee blest,
	Our mother dear!

In all the days to be, 
May each one bear for thee,
	Sweet joy anew;
While each succeeding year,
Brings thee and heaven more near
Our Mother ever dear,
	Beloved and true!
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


Mrs. Mary A. Livermore reached her
82nd birthday on Dec. 19.


TIMELY SUGGESTIONS.
	We take pleasure in publishing for the
benefit of the Relief Society Mothers’
Classes elsewhere, the plan of work adopted
by the Granite Stake, which has been suc-
cessfully carried out in the several wards in
that Stake, by giving one lecture a month
followed by discussion.—EDITOR.

	Motto of Relief Society Mothers’ Class,
“Woman know thyself and know thy mis-
sion too.” Build well. 
	To women, the builders of the temples of
life:

“And then in your building, build wisely and well,
How ye have builded the future will tell,
Then if thou hast builded for ambition or fame. 
Oh! woe to the builder, confusion and shame
Shall follow thy building; but honored shall be,
The builders who build for time and eternity.”

	What shall we do to have our babies healthy
and happy: Study child culture.

			LECTURE 1ST.
	“Overcome evil with good.”
	Physical Needs: Food, fresh air and sun-
shine—Cleanliness, exercise, habits.
	Moral Needs: Encourage virtue and
vice will disappear.
	Baby or Childhood: Confidence, character
building—Sacredness of physical organs—
Watch growth and beauties of nature—
Spiritual needs.
	Physical Education: Prefix the character
of the child which is out of temptation—A
due reverence for God—“The parent who
neglects the child’s religious training, neg-
lects that which is most important for its
success.”
	Physical Needs: Boy, Girlhood and Pub- 
erty—Outdoor exercises, freedom of dress
—“Good habits form the character.”

			LECTURE 2ND.
	The motto of the Greeks. “A sound mind
in a sound body”—Moral Need—Should be
taught the laws of personal purity—Study
of special physiology; pure thoughts and
actions—No liberties with the opposite sex.
	Mental Needs: Selection of good books
and companions—Should be taught early in
life the scientific truth “that every thought
and action influences the body. But vice
and hatred how they mar the countenance
and form of man.”
	Study of L. D. S. Church history.

			LECTURE 3RD.
	Study Child’s History of Joseph Smith
the Prophet
	Spiritual Needs: Christ the true ideal—
Prayer—One life which embodies all the
virtues, should be made the conduct in the
life of all.
	Preparation for Marriage: Study the mar-
riage covenant.
	Plenty of physical work—Rest after leav-
ing the schoolroom —-Pure thoughts and
conversation—Study and practice of house
work.

			LECTURE 4TH. 
	Study the life of the mother of Christ and
His life.
	Wife and prenatal influences—Home du-
ties—Sacredness of marriage covenants—
Preparation for offspring.

			LECTURE 5TH.
	Study motherhood—maternity or mother-
hood—Its sacredness and great mission

[Column 2]
—Influence upon babe while nursing. 

			LECTURE 6TH.
Change of life—A most critical time.

			LECTURE 7TH
	Diseases of women and children—What
shall we do to prevent?

			LECTURE 8TH
	Children’s diet—What shall it be?

			LECTURE 9TH. 
	Healthful dress for our growing girls. 

			LECTURE 10TH.
	Value of moments—Many a mother flings
away the finest opportunity by not realiz-
ing the value of moments.

			LECTURE 11TH.
	The Word of Wisdom—Purity.

			LECTURE 12TH
Woman.
		EMMA S. WOODRUFF, President.
		ARMEDA S. YOUNG, Secretary.


PUEBLO, COLORADO.
	The sisters of the Relief Society of the
Pueblo branch, presided over by Sister Lil-
[-]ie C Coleman, had a feast of good instruc-
tions, Nov. 17, 1902. We had Sisters
Annie T. Hyde and Julia M Brixen from
Salt Lake City, traveling in the interest of
the Relief Society and the Mutual Improve-
ment Association, also the president of the
East Colorado conference, H. W. Merrill,
and president of the branch, W. A. Cole-
man.
	Sister Hyde addressed the meeting, which
numbered about twenty-five, upon the
duties of the sisters and spoke upon the
society, and said the Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society in the year
1842, and his wife, Emma Smith, was its
first president, and that the Relief Society
was the oldest society of women in the
world. She gave many good instructions
and bore a faithful testimony to the truth of
the Gospel.
	She was followed by Sister Brixen who
said she felt well in meeting with the sisters
of the Pueblo branch and to enjoy the good
feeling that existed among them. Spoke
upon the growth of the Mutual Association
and the studies that were being taken up
for the advancement of the young. She
bore testimony to the goodness of God
in her behalf.
	President of the conference, H. W. Mer-
ril, addressed the meeting and encouraged
the sisters in the good work.
	President of the branch, W. A. Coleman,
eulogized the sisters for their goo[-] work.
	Sister Libbie Johnson was chosen to be
first counselor to fill the vacancy caused by
the removal of Sister Ariella Dennis; Sister
Sarah Burk was chosen second counselor-
Sister Amanda Coleman was chosen treas-
urer.
	Meeting was closed by singing "How
great the wisdom and the love." Benedic-
tion by President W. A. Coleman.
MARY CUMMINGS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1 & 15, 1902


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety in the several Stakes of Zion, also in
Missions and in branches of the Society not
included in Stakes or Missions, are hereby
notified to prepare complete annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1902, to December 31, 1902, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Temple-
ton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of February, 1903.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns
buildings, halls or granaries, it is desirable
that should be made a separate item, and
how many in the Stake and in what wards
located; also any other important facts that
would be of interest to the General Officers.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


[column 1] 
	A CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	All over the world, as it were, or through- 
out Christendom nowadays, the one festival 
of Christmas is religiously observed. It is 
in its custom a beautiful thing, teaching 
the highest lessons in so simple a manner 
that as the Savior said, "the wayfaring 
man, though a fool, need not err therein.”
	Charity, as set forth by St. Paul in his 
Epistle to the Corianthians, stands out con-
conspicuously on these occasions, and is 
fully exemplified in the lives of men, women 
and children, who have the Christmas 
spirit, with the Christmas giving, the cheer, 
the good will and unselfishness. Other-
wise no benefits accrue either to the giver 
or recipient, whether it be in word or deed. 
"Charity never faileth," how much is im-
plied in these three words. O, that we 
might not fail in the true heavenly charity 
ought to be the constant prayer of those 
who are striving to overcome. It is but a 
small thing to give of one's substance, but 
how great comparatively to receive the 
compensation of the soul that comes through 
reaction to the giver. The joy one feels 
but does not quite comprehend, which in-
variably comes afterwards to those whose
hearts are attuned to harmony and love for 
all mankind
	After all love is the great source of joy 
and of pleasure. "God is love" we are 
told in the scriptures, and the more men 
and women grow into His likeness the 
higher and purer will be the love they 
manifest or give expression to, however 
seemingly simple that development may 
appear. 
"He sendeth rain on the just and un-
just”—yet it is customary in the world to 
[column 2]
smile on one's friends and frown on one's 
enemies. This is not the lesson Christ 
taught. He said "Love your enemies." It 
is well at Christmas time to remember the 
Savior's words while rejoicing that He 
was born into the world. It matters not 
whether he was born in Bethlehem of Judea 
or in Nazareth, such disputations are idle. 
He was born into the world for the redemp-
tion of all mankind. He was the only per-
fect One, whose life and example it is for 
the professors of Christianity to follow, and 
yet so far do they depart from it, that the 
Bible tells us even the heathen who knows
not God, will receive greater blessings. 
The social observances of Christmas as 
family reunions are very enjoyable and tend 
to cement those together who are of one 
kindred or the renewal of closely inter-
woven friendships. It is true that in the 
hurry and worry of the present day we do 
not attend to the sweet amenities of life on 
which depends much of our happiness; we 
ignore and pass over them and go to great 
receptions and public excursions, parties, 
etc., and sometimes, yes often, neglect to 
cultivate our own. 
Much of this is from a mistaken idea of 
duty, but if persisted in would result disas-
trously. It is a good thing to be well ac-
quainted with one's own family and house-
hold, and at holiday times there is, even for 
the busy men and women a sort of respite, 
and if the mother's strength is not over- 
taxed with too much cooking it is the sea-
son for unalloyed happiness. 
It is significant of a better day when one 
hears on all sides reforms in eating; less 
meat or none at all, less pastry or none at 
all, coffee and tea abolished almost entirely, 
these things will simplify the home work; 
vegetables, fruits, cereals cooked in the 
plainest styles will tend to good digestion 
and thus make people happier without 
doubt. 
Our children nowadays eat too much 
candy, too many sweetmeats and by far too 
much meat. In this respect many who dis-
card tea and coffee disregard the Word of 
Wisdom. 
There does seem to be a tendency to-
wards reform in this direction, the Latter-
day Saints profess to believe in the Word 
of Wisdom and in the prolongation of hu-
man life, and yet many of them at any 
rate are very careless concerning these 
matters. However, as we are not writing a homily 
but giving a few thoughts on a matter now 
everywhere understood, it may be out of 
place to mention the Word of Wisdom or 
any other reform. Christmas should bring 
only "Peace and good will," and no sort of 
reproof even to those who indulge in ex-
cesses perhaps, this life is full of problems 
yet unsolved, and the Latter day Saints 
are trying to keep in advance of other peo-
ple in the higher code of morals, and there-
fore one naturally falls into the habit of 
introducing into conversation and composi-
tion some of the serious, everyday affairs or 
commonplace subjects. 
It would be wrong to destroy any of the 
good fellowship of the Christmas season by 
dwelling too much upon extravagances or 
excesses, but moderation in all things tends 
towards greater happiness and real enjoy-
ment than any extreme, even if it be an 
amusement. 
The Christmas spirit is one of forgive-
ness, it partakes of the charity that for-
gives seventy times seven, delighting in 
doing good to suffering humanity; it is like 
[column 3]
a mission of peace carrying a flag of truce to 
those who need it in all places, to the lowly 
and the weak; it brings an atmosphere with 
it of peace and of love, those who enter into
the real Christmas spirit seek to do what 
our Savior did when on earth. It is re-
corded of Him that "He went about doing 
good." What does that imply? Not giv-
ing costly presents to those who give in re-
turn, but in seeking to uplift one's fellow-
men, those who are poor in spirit as well 
as those who are in actual want of food and 
raiment. Let us speak kind words to 
those we meet, to the old friends whom we 
may have neglected, these are the little 
things that leave an influence, and are as 
much deeds of generosity as the giving of
one’s substance, for such acts flow from 
generous impulses and often leave a lasting 
impression, though one may not be con-
scious of the effect. It is comparatively 
easy to give of one's means and it may be 
more difficult to carry sunshine to those 
who are under a cloud, but the blessing 
comes to those who make some sacrifice of 
their selfishness, for selfishness is the root 
of evil. He or she who ministers to the 
wants of others is disciplining his spiritual 
powers is planting the seeds that will 
grow to bless and save. It is "casting 
bread upon the waters." "Good deeds 
double in the doing and the largest half 
comes back to the donor."


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We beg the forbearance of our patrons
and subscribers for the prolonged delay in
issuing the Christmas number of the EX-
PONENT and trust we may be forgiven, as it
was for several reasons, too tedious to ex-
plain, utterly unavoidable.
	With reference to the book we expected
to get ready tor the holidays, entitled “Aunt
Em’s Stories of Long Ago,” we desire to
state that there has not been sufficient
money raised by subscription yet to pub-
lish; it will be necessary to get a larger
number of people interested in the publica-
tion before we can be assured of its success;
however we are still hopeful as to the re-
sult of the undertaking, and will in our
January number give an outline of what
the book will contain.


TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER M. I. HORNE.

		NOVEMBER 20, 1902.

	The anniversary of Sister M. Isabella
Horne’s eighty-fourth birthday was cele-
brated by the officers and members of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, in the
Barratt Hall of the Latter-day Saints’ Col-
lege, her first counselor, Sister Sarah Jenne
Cannon, presiding. Exercises opened with
the congregation singing, “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.” Prayer
was offered by Dr. Elvira S. Barney. Sis-
ter Maggie C. Hull sang a solo written for
the occasion by L. L. Greene Richards, en-
titled “Our Mother.” The first speaker
was Sister Rachel R. Grant, who spoke as
follows:

	SISTER RACHEL R. GRANT.

	I am very pleased indeed to celebrate the
birthday of Sister Horne, and I feel grate-
ful that her life has been spared up to the
present time and for the work she has ac-
complished and the blessings she will re-
ceive hereafter for her faithfulness, and the


[column 1]
blessing which she has been to the Latter-
day Saints and for her counsel. I feel that 
we have much to be thankful for. That 
our lives have been spared up to the pres-
ent time to come forth at this day and re-
ceive the everlasting Gospel that has been 
revealed in this latter-day. We have so 
much to be thankful for as Latter-day 
Saints. As a people we are greatly blessed 
with the privilege we have to associate our-
selves together Of course the greatest trial 
I have is that I cannot hear, but I have so 
many blessings I cannot complain, but if 
we only will live so that we may receive
the instructions of God, there is nothing we 
are called to pass through but will be for 
our good and we can rejoice in it if we do 
our duty. I feel to ask the blessings of 
God upon Sister Horne that her life may still 
be spared and when she passes to the other 
side, she will meet her dear family and 
friends. I have been acquainted with her a 
great many years and am afraid we do not 
appreciate the lovely friend we have in her. 
My dear brethren and sisters, I think 
many times that we do not do enough as a 
people for one another in this life in order 
that we may rejoice and receive the bless 
ings we will have when we pass  behind the 
veil and the joy we will have in meeting 
loved ones that are there. I feel thankful 
and happy although I cannot hear what is 
said. Since I was a child, I always loved 
to read the Bible and I many times think 
how we live today as they lived in the days 
of the Savior, when we have inspired men 
with us and I know that the Lord has 
called them and it is for us as individuals to 
receive them in that way and manner. 
I pray that the blessings of the Lord may 
rest upon Sister Horne and the rest of the 
sisters. I think many times we are not so 
particular in regard to our associates as we 
should be. I do not wish to take up the 
time, but hope the blessings of the Lord 
will rest upon you all. I ask it in the 
name of Jesus. Amen. 
Sister Maggie C. Hull rendered a solo
and chorus, accompanied by a few of the 
Temple choir, "Only remembered for what 
we have done." 
	PRESIDENT ANGUS M. CANNON. 
	It has fallen to my lot to come in late 
and then to be called upon to address you 
for a few minutes. I will inquire if you 
can hear me? There is nothing more an-
noying than to see a person motioning with 
his mouth and not to hear any sound. I 
am very glad to be honored and to be priv-
ileged to meet with Sister Horne and the 
rest of the sisters and brethren too, and to 
congratulate her on her natal day. For 
eighty-four years she has toiled here on 
earth. I have been acquainted with her 
for fifty-eight years past and I knew her 
boys and girls, more particularly the boys, 
for the girls were not born until a later day. 
I thought while sitting here of the exper-
ience this woman has obtained in gaining a 
testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith and 
in associating with the wives and brethren 
of some of the twelve apostles, for I be-
lieve she was acquainted with all of these. 
She was acquainted with the Prophet 
Joseph, and with his brother Hyrum, and 
with his sisters and his other brothers. 
She was acquainted with the families of the 
twelve apostles that existed in that day, 
before the martyrdom of the Prophet 
Joseph Smith. 
I have visited at her house many times be- 
[column 2]
fore I went away upon a mission. The visits 
that I paid at her house, associating with her 
family, her sons, her daughters and rela-
tives and herself, when she sat with regal 
dignity in the homes of her posterity, have 
been a green spot in my memory. When I 
have thought of a happy home and of the dig-
nity of a woman, a woman of gentle and 
queenly dignity, I have thought of Joseph 
Horne, Sister Horne, the children, and the 
government of their family and when I see 
her surrounded by the sisters here, I think of 
the responsibility of this Stake of Zion. 
When I look around and see the coun-
tenances of those who have been her co-
laborers and who have been her sisters in 
these associations, providing for the wants 
of the needy from the earliest of my recol-
lections of the Church. I wonder what the 
association will look like without these 
familiar faces, when so many of them have
passed away. 
	We are pleased to meet Sister Horne 
here, and when she goes hence she will find 
Patriarch Joseph Horne waiting patiently 
for her coming, and then when I think of 
the hopes and faith that have attended her 
well spent life in mortality upon the earth, 
I know their joy will know no bounds when 
they are reunited, for God has promised 
great blessings to those who receive Him 
and keep His commandments. 
	SISTER JANE S. RICHARDS. 
	I feel honored as I suppose you all do 
that we have the privilege of greeting Sis-
ter Horne on her birthday at such a late 
day in her life, that she looks so well and 
has her mind so good. I cannot see the 
lack of anything in her. I think it is such 
a great blessing that she has been preserved. 
I can remember Sister Horne about fifty-
nine years ago. I remember passing her 
one day. I did not know her name at that 
time. I was with my husband and I said 
to him, "Do you know who that beautiful 
woman is down there?" and he said, "I 
believe her name is Horne." Pretty soon I 
was introduced to her, and from that day to 
this I have always found a sister in her. 
My acquaintance with Sister Horne has 
been such that I have been closely asso-
ciated with her and learned many things 
from her. She was in the Relief Society 
when I was and I feel as though she has 
been a greater help to me than I could have 
been to myself. I never found her stern or 
indifferent or lack time to speak and be 
courteous, which I think is a great bless-
ing. I consider that she has been a blessed
woman. I have lived next door to her for 
many years, and in all that time I have 
never seen Sister Horne in a hurry or out 
of temper, but what I could approach her, 
and this is more than I can say of myself. 
I think to live happy is to be happy. I 
am thankful Sister Horne is with us today 
and hope she will live just as long as she 
desires and that we may be able to take her 
counsel as she gives it to us. May the 
Lord bless us all, is my prayer in the name 
of the Lord. Amen. 
	Recitation, Sister Rosannah Cannon 
Irvine, "The Monk's Magnificat." 
	SISTER BATHSHEBA W. SMITH. 
	My dear sisters and brethren, I am very 
happy to be with you on this occasion. I 
do not suppose I can make you hear, but I 
can tell you that I love Sister Horne and 
[column 3]
have taken great joy in her society and in 
her counsel. I know she has associated 
with some of the best people that were 
ever in this generation. She was acquainted 
with the Prophet Joseph, his wife, his 
mother and sisters and many of the good
Saints in Nauvoo, and I always consider 
she was one of the wisest and best women 
we have. We have received a great many 
good instructions from her. She has been 
blest with a good husband, which is anoth-
er good thing on her part. He raised 
another good family. I am proud to know 
her and to know that all love and respect 
her. We must not forget our dead, to live so 
that the Lord will bring them forth in the 
morning of the resurrection. I believe we 
can scarcely imagine the great joy we will 
have when we meet our dead friends and 
relatives, if we perform our duty here for 
them. We have a great labor in the Relief 
Society to perform, to comfort and cheer 
the poor and needy, the sick and afflicted. 
I pray the Lord to bless Sister Horne 
and all the sisters and brethren. I ask it in 
the name of the Lord. Amen. 
	Sister Martha H. Tingey, daughter of 
Sister Horne, spoke briefly in behalf of the 
family. 
SISTER MARTHA H. TINGEY. 
	Brethren and sisters, it is certainly most 
unexpected to me to be asked to speak a 
few words on this occasion. I hope that I 
shall be able to control my feelings suffici-
ently to express the feelings of my heart. I 
can say in behalf of the family that we ap-
preciate sincerely the loving kindness and 
the confidence and respect which has 
prompted this testimonial to our mother 
today. We feel that she is indeed blessed, 
and that she has been able, through the 
blessings of God, to obtain the greatest 
wealth that earth can give, that is the love 
and confidence of her associates, as is mani-
fested here this afternoon. Such wealth is 
inestimable, and it is the wealth that will 
go with her through all eternity. And I 
can assure you, my sisters, that this is the 
wealth that our mother has striven for all 
her life. And it is this principle that she 
has instilled into the minds of her children, 
that they are looking for something higher 
than this life, for something higher than 
this world. 
We appreciate and feel grateful to 
God, our Heavenly Father, that He has 
permitted us to be born upon this earth 
and to receive such good parents as we 
have had, and that He permitted them to 
live together so long to give us their coun-
sel, and to be united in instructing their 
children and leading them in the paths of 
righteousness. They had the privilege of 
living together as husband and wife for 
nearly sixty-two years, and I think I can 
say they were always united in the govern-
ment of their children, in instructing them 
in the paths of right. It was the desire of 
their hearts that their children should be-
come thorough Latter-day Saints. I believe 
I can say truthfully today that our hearts 
are set upon the things of God and we have 
an earnest desire to continue on in the good 
work for which they sacrificed so much. 
We thank you today, sisters, for this 
demonstration of loving kindness to our 
mother. I hope it will be an inspiration 
to her to go on in the good work and that 
she may continue to be worthy of the con-
fidence and respect of the Saints of God.


[column 1]
May this be our blessing, I ask in the name
of Jesus. Amen.

	SISTER ELMINA S. TAYLOR.

	My sisters I am sorry they have called
upon me to speak because my voice is so
poor. I am suffering from the effects of a
bad throat. If you cannot understand me
you will make allowance for it.
	I am proud today to be called upon to
make a few remarks in regard to our be-
loved Sister Horne  I have lived on the
same block with her for nearly forty years.
I have associated with her in her home and
in her labors among the sisters of Zion.  I
have served under her as a secretary for our
Relief Society in the 14th ward for many
years, and I have traveled through the
cities of Zion with her, and I can truthfully
say that I have never known a better
woman, one who is more full of the spirit
of inspiration and love of the Gospel and a
desire to do good on the earth while she
may live upon it. I can never remember
any circumstance where Sister Horne has
done anything that we should censure, but
has always been, to our knowledge, for the
advancement of the kingdom of God and of
the daughters of Zion. Her heart has been
filled with this and she has desired to per-
form the work of God in every way that
she could. We have enjoyed some of the
most lovely times in her home that we
have ever had anywhere. I presume be-
cause of that love and sympathy and the
spirit of the Gospel. She has been a model
for the daughters of Zion to take as an ex-
ample. And may God bless her, and may
her remaining days upon the earth be sweet
and peaceful, and may the love of God be
with her. May her children be preserved
and may they still continue to follow in the
paths of their parents is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.

	SISTER EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	I feel that this demonstration is more
than due to Sister Horne for the labors she
has performed. While sitting here I have
been thinking that if all the daughters of
Zion could have come here to look upon
her face and hear what she will say to us
afterwards, for no doubt she will respond
to what has been said, they would have
been well paid, for we never knew her to
fail on any occasion. I am sure she will
tell us something of the divine mission of
the prophet Joseph Smith. She is certainly
one of the first of our sisters who knew
him. I do not know if there are any older,
but I think not in this city. She has trav-
eled all over these Rocky mountains. She
came here in October, 1847, and has been a
valuable worker and a strength to the
women of Zion ever since. As you have
been told she was acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his mother, who
was one of the greatest women that ever
graced this earth.”
	Sister Wells made other remarks concern-
ing veteran sisters; and in behalf of the sis- 
ters of Salt Lake Stake presented Sister
 Horne with an elegant fur cape and a
silk umbrella.

	The following is the substance of Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne’s response and
address:
	Sister Horne was considerably overcome 
by the eulogies made and the kindness and
love manifested and the gifts presented, but
with her great self-control she rose to the

[column 2]
occasion and in a few well-chosen words
expressed her pleasure and appreciation of
the Testimonial and of the presents from
the Relief Society of the Salt Lake Stake,
thanking one and all of the sisters who had
shown her such honor and respect.
	Sister Horne spoke modestly of her efforts
made for the benefit of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake, over which she had pre
sided twenty-five years within a few days,
and how large the Stake had grown during
that time, and even now when two other
Stakes had been taken from it there were
more than thirty wards. She spoke of her
great love for the sisters and her desire to
continue in the service as long as the Lord
was pleased to give her health and strength
to perform the duties of her calling; her
one desire was to serve the Lord and assist
in building up his work upon the earth  She
was thankful to testify of the truth of the
Gospel and the divine mission of Joseph
Smith the Prophet.
	Sister Horne had first heard the Gospel in
Toronto, Canada, where she was then re-
siding, and herself and husband were both
converted and baptized into the Church;
the Prophet visited Toronto and was the
guest of Brother and Sister Horne, who at
that early period had the opportunity of his
personal acquaintance, and from him learned
many precious truths,
	Sister Horne gave a glowing description
of the Prophet’s wonderful personality and
charming manner, the power that he had
and the heavenly influence that he carried
with him at all times; she related how she
entertained him again for several days after
the Saints were driven from Missouri while
she and her family were residing in Quincy,
Illinois, and from that time forward Brother
and Sister Horne were on intimate terms
with the Prophet and his family up to the
time of the martyrdom; they were also well
acquainted with Sister Lucy Smith, the
Prophet’s mother, a woman of wonderful
presence and prophetic power, greatly be-
loved for her many virtues and who pos-
sessed great faith and power in administer-
ing to the sick.
	Sister Horne has known all the Apostles
and veteran authorities of the Church from
the days of Kirtland. She refered to the
first organization of the Relief Society to
which she belonged and testified that it
was organized by the Prophet Joseph; also
alluded to President Brigham Young ap-
pointing her to take charge of the first Gen-
eral Retrenchment Association; she exhorted
the sisters to faithfulness and diligence and
blest them as mothers in Israel in the name
of the Lord
	The meeting was adjourned by singing a
selection by members of the Temple choir,
and the benediction was pronounced by
President Angus M. Cannon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	EMMA BARBER PIKE.

Tread softly here, a dear one sleeps, 
	And angels guard the spot,
Their loving vigils ever keep, 
	And we forget thee not.
	Another friend and sister has gone to join
those in the silent land. We see her here
no more, nor hear her loving voice. Sister
Emma Barber Pike departed this life, Nov-
vember 5, 1902, and in one respect her wish
was fulfilled, as she died with the harness
on. She was faithful to the end and as
those who endure faithful to the end are
[Column 2]
they who will receive the reward of duty
done, her reward is certain.
Sister Pike was born in Birmingham,
England, January 20, 1839. When about
eight years of age she was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
by Brother George Baugh. At the age of
twenty she married Samuel Pike, a mem-
ber of the Church. About seven years
after their marriage they emigrated to Utah,
crossing the plains with an ox team. They
staid in Salt Lake for a short time, then
moved, to Coalville, where they lived for
six years; leaving there they next went to
Alma, Wyoming. Here Sister Pike was
called to act as president of the Relief
Society, which position she held for a num-
ber of years and made of the society what
she did of every work she set her hand to, a
success. Many are the good deeds she per-
formed, and many are the grateful hearts
who can truly say, “Her good works fol-
low her.” While living there they lost
their home by fire, and all they possessed
was burned in it. I have often heard her
tell of that disaster and what a grief it was
to lose what they had worked so hard to
get, but with her characteristic cheerfull-
ness and her unbounded faith and hope, she
went to work with a will to help to make
another home.
After leaving Alma they moved to Laketown
then to Bear Lake, where she was called to
act as president of the first Primary Asso-
ciation organized there, Sister E. R. Snow
organizing the association. She labored
faithfully in this calling while she remaind
there. After coming to Logan she was
called as president of the Sixth Ward Prim-
ary, in which capacity she labored many
years, even after being called as counselor
to the Primary of Ca[-]he Stake. In Octo-
ber 1901, she was made president of the
Cache Stake Primaries, which position she
held at the time of her death.
	When the Logan Temple was opened,
she was called there as a worker, and per-
formed her part of the work in that Holy
House for a number of years. In every
position to which she was called she was
faithful and true. Her whole heart was in
the work of the kingdom of God It was
her desire to do all that she could, and she
labored to inspire others with a love for the
work. She was a generous, whole-souled
woman, who feeling she had freely received
desired to give freely. I knew her best in
the Primary work, as we have labored to-
gether for many years, and I never knew
her to shirk a duty or to neglect one. She
had the love of all the children, and she
loved them. She often said she hoped she
would be permitted to labor with the chil-
dren when she passed behind the vail, as
to her there was nothing so holy and pure
as the love of a little child. She was not a
mother, but the instinct of motherhood
was shown in her deep love for the little
ones and her devotion to their welfare.
Nothing greater can be said of her than she
did all she could, and was faithful and true

True unto death to the work she was given 
	Faithfully labored to do all her part;
Earning salvation—a sweet rest in heaven;
Ever we'll miss thee, dear, faithful heart,
				MATTIE BLAIR HANSON.


President Roosevelt has sent to the Senate
a general international agreement in the
shape of a treaty for the suppression of the
traffic in girls for immoral purposes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TENTH ANNUAL CELEBRATED.

	The Reapers' Club met at the home of
Mrs. E. J. Stevenson, on the evening of
October 21, 1902, to celebrate the tenth
anniversary of their organization. Mrs
Maria W. Wilcox presided.
	The club was founded on October 3,
1892.
	Meeting was opened with prayer by Sister
Smith. Singing, "Now let us re-
joice."
	Elder Nephi L. Moiris then gave, by 
invitation, an excellent lecture on events
that transpired during the "Dark Ages.’’
The remainder of the program consisted
of a violin solo by Miss Georgie Young.
Recitation by Miss Frances Young, and a
dance, the minuet, by Miss Claire Wilcox.
A delicious luncheon was then served,
which was much enjoyed by all present and
afterwards a social time was participated
in. The members of the Utah Woman's
Press Club were our guests for the evening.
					JULIA A. DRUCE.


OBITUARY.

MARTHA SMITH BENNETT.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of our beloved sister, Martha Smith Bennett. She
was born June 9, 1817, at New York, St. Law-
rence, Stockholm. She was the daughter of Asa-
hel and Elizabeth Shellinger Smith; was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints by her cousin, Hyrum Smith, and confirmed
by David Whitmer, was married to Hyrum Ball
Bennet, August 17. She was the mother of six
children, three of whom survive her, she was presi-
dent of the Meadow Ward Relief Society from its
first organization, it being in the year 1870, till 1897,
when she resigned feeling it too great a responsi-
bility in her old age, she passed to the great be-
yond, Oct. 12, 1902.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Inasmuch as our Heavenly Father has deemed
it wise to summon from our midst to a nobler
sphere our beloved sister, Martha Smith Bennett,
ex-president of our Relief Society, whose wise and
motherly counsels have stimulated us to greater
determination of becoming more valiant in the
kingdom of our Heavenly Father, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we, her colaborers in the great
work of love mourn her loss as a mother and wise
counselor and a faithful worker in the cause of
truth.
	That we express our sincere sympathy for the
bereaved husband and family and pray our
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of
His holy spirit be with them in this, their hour of
trouble, that they may realize she has gone to en-
joy a rest prepared for the faithful and will come
forth to a glorious immortality and eternal life.
	That a copy of these resolutions be placed on
record, one sent to the bereaved family and one to
the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
ELIZABETH E. STEWART, Pres.,
EMMELINE BECKSTRAND, Sec.

IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE.

	Elizabeth Phipps Harper, born at Soham, Cam-
bridgeshire, England, in the year 1823. Became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints at Holborn, London, in 1856. Emi-
grated to Utah in 1868 with her husband and fam-
ily. Located at Pleasant Grove where she resided
until her death, Oct. 27, 1902. 
	She was the wife of Benjamin Harper, who pre-
ceded her only five days to the great beyond. They
leave a respected, family of three sons, one daugh-
ter, thirty-five grandchildren and two great grand-
children.
	Sister Harper was a faithful Saint, an active
worker in the Relief Society, filling the office of
teacher for the past thirty years and being a con-
stant subscriber to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and its
firm advocate. She also acted as aid in the Prim-
ary Association for many years. The guidance
and training of the children was her constant 
theme, and as an expression of respect and esteem
for her untiring labors the Primary children of the
ward came in a body to her funeral and followed
her remains to their last resting place.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas God nr His infinite wisdom has seen fit

[Column 2]
to call home Sister Elizabeth P. Harper of the
Pleasant Grove Relief Society, be it
Resolved, That we deeply mourn her absence,
a faithful worker, a comforter in the hour of need,
a devoted wife and mother, and extend our sin-
cere Sympathy to the bereaved family in this their
hour of trial and admonish them to look to a divine
source for comfort and consolation. We regard
her many virtues as worthy of emulation.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family; that a copy be sent to the
WOMAN’s EXPONENT; and that the same be placed
upon the records of the Pleasant Grove Relief
Society.
SARAH A. FOUTZ,
President
EMILY C. BULLOCK,
PAULINE E. BROWN,
Committee.

SISTER OLIVE STEELE.
 
	Sister Olive Steele Bywater, wife of James Bywater Jr.,
departed this lite at Corinne, Box Elder Co Utah, Dec.
1, 1902, after an illness of one week.
	Sister Olive was born in Logan, Cache Co., September
16, 1871; was the daughter ot Brother and Sister David
Steele and granddaughter of Brother and Sister Cyrus
Card, who brought her up as their own daughter, her
mother having died when she was one year old.
	On December 19, 1889, she was married to James By-
water, Jr. She was the mother of six children, two of
whom have preceded her to the spirit world.
	She was the secretary of the Woman's Suffrage Associa-
ation, and in March, 1899, was set apart as corresponding
secretary of the Stake Board of the Relief Society of Box
Elder Stake, and in that capacity filled her duties ac-
ceptably.
	She was a lovely woman and was highly esteemed by all
who knew her. The funeral services were held in the
Second Ward meeting house, Brigham City, and all who
spoke paid a high tribute to the character of the diseased.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas an Alwise Providence has seen fit to remov
from our midst and has taken to another sphere our be-
loved sister and colaborer, Sister Olive Steele Bywater,
be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful and ener-
getic worker in the cause of truth.
	That we tender our sympathy to the bereaved husband
and children, and pray our Heavenly Father to bless and
comfort them with the influence of His Holy Spirit in
this their hour of trial.
	That a copy of these resolutions be placed on our rec-
ords, one be sent to the bereaved family and one to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
SUSANNAH P. BOOTH, Pres’t.
EMILIA D. MADSEN, 1st Vice Pres’t,
LOUISA E. PETERS, 2nd Vice Pres't,
ANNIE J. WIXOM, Secretary.
ANNIE H LITTLEWOOD, Ass't Sec’y.


R. S. REPORT. 

WOODRUFF STAKE.

	Minutes of Relief Society conference of
the Woodruff Stake held at Randolph Sep-
tember 14, 1902, President J. B. Muir pre-
siding. Meeting opened with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer. The
sacrament was administered by Brothers
William Muir and John Spencer.
	President Sarah Tyson, of the Randolph
Ward, reported the same in good condition
and had joy in her labors.
	Sister Hatch, of the Argyle Ward, said
their society was in fair running order, it
being such a small ward was a drawback,
and it was not fully organized on account
of the death of one counselor.
	Sister Call, of the Woodruff Ward Relief
Society, said they were in good running
order and all the members were on hand to
do their part.
	President Wall, of Lyman, reported the
society there as being very flourishing and
in excellent condition.
	President Hilton, of Rock Springs Ward,
reported that society in first class running
order, the sisters were working hard and
trying to do their duty.
	Sister Stevenson and Sister Badger,
visitors from Salt Lake City, with Stake
President J. M. Baxter and others of the
leading priesthood were present on the
stand.
Sister Stevenson, of Salt Lake City, said

[Column 3]
“I realize the magnitude of this great work,
we should all conie together with a feeling
to serve the Lord. The Relief Society was
organized by inspiration. We should be
mothers in Israel, the greatest and grandest
of all women.” Spoke of the Sunday
School, of the beautiful order therein, of
the importance of having good teachers for
our children. Said the prophets of old
looked down through the vista of time,
and longed to live in this day. We all
have a great and grand mission to perform
and the Church is to regenerate the world.
The Relief Society work is a self-denying
work and our boys should be cognizant
with it, keep it before our husbands and
sons and help them to see the magnitude of
the Relief Society work. Spoke of the love
and unity that should, be in the family
circle, teach our daughters how to be good,
wives and our sons to seek a wife by in-
spiration; said the duties of a Relief Society,
teacher were very sacred and they were the,
backbone of the Relief Society, asked the
Lord to bless the teachers and all that were
connected with it.
	Sister Harriet Badger was pleased to be
with the Relief Society sisters of Woodruff
Stake, felt weak in her position, but was.
trying to do her best; said she was one in
heart and handwith the Relief Society
work and it was good to take the meetings
to the aged and those who could not get out
to them. Spoke of the famine that was to
come, and said we must take care of our,
wheat. Read a portion of section 88 of the
Doctrine and Covenants. How we should
not find fault with one another, said there,
was so much to speak upon the Temple 
work, the redemption of the dead.  Bore a
faithful testimony.
	The choir sang ‘‘Awake, awake, put on
thy strength.”
	Professor Hague of the Church school of
Paris spoke in the interest of the same; said
he was here to represent and explain the
necessity of education in the Church
schools, it would be a great thing for the
Relief Society to take up. He believed that
of all the missions that of a mother in Israel,
was the greatest. ‘‘I believe every great
and good man owes to his mother his suc-
cess.” Gave some excellent instructions in
regard to the education of the young, said,
the Teacher of teachers descended below all
things that lie might arise above all things.
Every teacher in Zion must become ac-
quainted with grief and be a man of sorrow.
The ones who go astray are the ones to be
looked after. “Let us supplicate our Father,
‘What wilt thou have me do?’ Jesus, him-
self sought to know, his mission. ‘Intelli--
gence is the glory of God.’ We should
know the meaning of that great word Lat-
ter-day Saint; our bodies should be vessels
of holiness thus the prophet said, ‘How
beautiful are thy feet.’ I pray that the-
made.”
	The choir sang, “Heavenly Father, hum-
bly we beseech Thee.” Benediction by
Stake President J. M. Baxter.
	Evening session of Relief Society confer
ence. Called to order by President J. C.
Muir. Choir sang, “How pleased ancl
blest was I.” Opening prayer by Bishop
J. C. Greg, after which was sung ‘‘The
silver, gold and precious stones.” Minutes
read and accepted.
	Sister Stevenson from Salt Lake City
said example is better than precept, we
have met in conference again, it is a good


place to come; said she was a living monu-
ment of God’s mercy.  “I was once an in-
valid for many years I wished to die, but I
do not now. I can testify that we can
claim the blessings of the Lord if we live
for them. We want to instil into the
minds of our children this faith. My young
brethren and sisters should live pure lives,
how much better it is to begin right, we
know not when we may be called hence.
Let us not forget the dead or neglect the
wonderful work for them. If we have had
the opportunity of doing a work for the
dead and have not done it, how will we
meet them? If any of the brethren have
wives who do not belong to the Relief
Society, you know not what they lose, the
brethren should understand the importance
of the same. We are to be judged out of
the books, and I believe one of these is the
Relief Society books. We don’t want to
be at ease in Zion, we want to set at exam-
ple that our lives will be acceptable to the
Lord. Teach the young to be true and
faithful, teach them to be virtuous, guard
your daughters, guard your sons, each time
a daughter falls, a son falls also. May the
Lord bless you that you may not forget
your duty to yourselves.”
	A quartette by the choir, “Sweet Sab-
bath Eve,” was rendered. 
Professor Hague said, “I believe the
sentiments of the anthem, ‘Sweet Sabbath
Eve,’ are true. Do we not know that
breaking the Sabbath brings its penalty,
great men have recognized these laws we
cannot have our ease in Zion, we must
work and labor. He that lives for himself
alone lives for the meanest person on earth,
a half-hearted Latter-day Saint is a most
miserable object; let us serve the Lord and
we will have joy therein. Those who live
the lives of Latter-day Saints are the choice
ones, their lives are in accordance with
their testimony. May our Heavenly Fath-
er’s choicest blessings be with you all.
Amen.”
	Stake President J. M. Baxter felt to en-
dorse what had been said, and he wished to
urge upon the people to educate their chil-
dren in the Church schools. “May the
Lord bless us in our endeavors to do good,
and bless the sisters who have come to visit 
us.”
	Sister Alice Jacobson thought we had
had a splendid conference, was thankful to
those sisters who had come to visit us;
prayed the Lord to bless each and every
one.
	Sister Harriet Badger said she had en-
joyed herself very much; was thankful she
was privileged to bear testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. “I want to tell my
young sisters to help their mothers, as they
have a great deal to do. I ask the Lord to
bless us that we may be guarded by His
Spirit.”
	The choir sang the anthem, “Hark, the
Herald Angels Sing.” Benediction by
Brother G. A. Peart.
	KATIE H. EPPICH, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. 		TRY US

[column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
	DR. MARGARET E. ROBERTS
Will commence a class in Obstetrics and
	Nursing, January 5th, 1903.
For further particulars write to
	DR. ROBERTS,
55 North State St. Telephone 449

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
name,subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[column 1]
		ANCIENT RELICS.

	One of the richest finds of relics of pre-
historic man is that unearthed by Captain
Francis Tuttle of the revenue cutter Bear
during her recent trip in the Arctic seas.
The investigations and discoveries were
made at the instance of Captain D F. Toz-
ler of the revenue cutter Grant, senior
officer of the revenue cutter service on the
coast. A house built by human beings
probably thousands of years ago was found,
and Captain Tolzer now has some of the
utensils used by the people who made it a
habitation.
	Two years ago a missionary at Point Bar-
row told Captain Tuttle of a remarkable dis-
covery the natives of the vicinity had made.
It was the framework of a house which
was partially embedded in a cliff fronting
on the ocean fifteen miles southwest of
Point Barrow. At the point where the
house was discovered protruding the cliff
rose sheer seventy feet from the ocean.
Forty feet above tidewater one end of the
house was exposed. The Indians first
noticed the end of the house nine years ago,
and year after year as the cl[-]ff crumbled in-
to the ocean the framework of the house
became more plainly visible. The house
was built somewhat after the plan of
structure of the primitive habitations of
America. The ribs of an enormous whale
or of some animal now extinct were used for
a framework, and over these, skins had
evidently been stretched. No trace of the
skins, however, could be found, but the
framework of the house was intact.

	PREHISTORIC UTENSILS.

	The utensils found at the spot consist of
a bailer for a boat, a carved ivory rowlock,
four stone knives, a bone knife and a skin-
ning knife. This skinning knife is a curi-
osity. It might be said to be in the shape
of a crude, old-fashioned drawing knife,
such as is used by carpenters, minus the
handles. It is about the length of a draw-
ing knife, but the stone blade, which is
fitted in the center, is about four inches in
breadth by three or four inches deep. The
boat bailer is made from the ivory of a
mastodon tusk. It is shaped somewhat
like an old-fashioned gourd dipper and will
hold about one pint of water. The bone
knife resembles a corn knife or machete
such as was used by the Cubans. A pecu-
liarity of this knife is an etching of a pre-
historic animal on the blade. The image
appears to be a rude caricature of a rhino-
ceros. There is a probability that the knife
may have been made from the bone of the
animal depicted on the blade.
	The ivory rowlock is also etched. The
work on this relic is much more delicately
and artistically done than that on the knife.
The etchings are of fish and sea monsters
and there are five or six of them.
	An effort will be made to bring the bones
of the house frame down from Alaska and
set them up in the Smithsonian institution
just as they were found in the cliff. The
fact that there were thirty feet of gravel

[column 2]
and earth above the house, and that all the
utensils were of stone and bone of masto-
don’s tusks, warrants the conclusion that
the house was built in remote antiquity.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Kipling, the mother of Rudyard
Kipling, has just published, with her
daughter, Mrs. Fleming, a little book of
poems entitled “Hand in Hand.”
	The Virginia House of Delegates has
passed by an overwhelming majority the
Cabell child-labor bill, to prevent the em-
ployment of children under twelve, in any
mill, factory or manufacturing establish-
ment, and to regulate the employment of
children between twelve and fourteen in
manufacturing establishments.
	At the election of December 2 and 9, the
following women, among others, were
elected members of school committees in
Massachusetts towns: Annie B. Bosworth,
Brockton; Mary E Mitchell, Cambridge;
Belle E. Curtis, Everett; Susan F. Flan-
ders, Melrose; Lizzie B. Blake, Woburn;
Annie M. Weeler, Haverhill; Clara T.
Guild, Medford; and Henrietta B. G. At-
wood, Somerville. The last three were re-
elections.— Woman's Journal
	Eleanora Duse, the Italian tragedienne,
was discussing woman suffrage not long
ago with a male friend. He said: “Man
was made first, you know, and woman
sprang from man afterward. She must be
his inferior.” Duse answered: “I cannot
agree with you. The flower comes after
the stem, but you surely do not call that
an evidence of inferiority.”—Ex.


Woman's Exponent. <Complete>
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1903		Nos. 15-16


CONTENTS.

A Few Words From Japan................Aunt Gusta	57
Notes and News..................................................	58
The New Year.........................Emily B. Spencer	59
S. L. Primary Conference......................A. W. C.	59
A Word to Mothers......................Mary S. Clark	59
General Instructions to the Relief Society...........	61
Obituaries............................................................	63
Relief Society Mothers’ Classes.........................	63
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting.........A. Wadrop	64

EDITORIAL—Women in Politics......................	60
	Editorial Notes............................................	60
	Mrs. Riter’s Party........................................	60
	A Delightful Afternoon...............................	60
	In Memoriam...............................................	61

POETRY—Hyrum Smith, Augusta J. Crocheron	57
	Slumberland...................................Selected	59
	My Sister..........................L. L. G. Richards	59


HYRUM SMITH.
Hyrum ! Where’er the Prophet stood,
Thou, his other self wert there—
In all things sacred, high and good,
Or persecutions shafts to share,
Forgetting not the Love Divine
That ever near us watchful hears;
Thy brother’s heart still turned to thine
'Mid heavenly raptures or earth’s fears.

Beside him while the souls of men
The highest gifts of heaven received;
Beside him, hated, driven, when
At last by trait’rous friends deceived;
In Temple’s peace or home’s sweet bliss,
Or shackled in the prison’s gloom;
Thy life and love were bound in his
Sharing at last the martyr’s tomb.

Yet, from the stricken home there grew.
One worthy to bear thy great same;
Filling the years faithful and true
Until his highest calling came—
To lead God's people ! Ah, the tears 
The widowed mother suffering wept;
Her prayers, her vigils through the years—
In heaven’s blest treasury were kept !

The years may come and time may go.
But brightening as they swifter pass,
Ye martyred ones see here below
Your names and works grow grander, as
The Nations, self-wise in their race
Of pride and greatness, hurry on,
Forgetting in their worldly haste,
The holier victories to be won

Aye ! Thou art with him still, above
All hindrances, and thou dost stand
Serene, with him to watch in love
Thy people’s mighty mission, and
Mete blesssings to the pure,'
Defeat to all thy foes;
And watch, from Zion’s place secure, 
Heaven’s and earth's long drama close.
Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
S. L. City, Sep. 10. 1902.


[column 1]
	A FEW WORDS FROM JAPAN.
		TOKYO, JAPAN, Dec. 15, 1902.

Dear Folks at Home:

	It has been two weeks since I wrote to
any one except little notes, and today I
feel like writing again, for the mail that
leaves Yokohama tomorrow.
	This is such a beautiful, bright day. I
am sitting in my room upstairs with my
window open, and the sun is shining in
just like a warm spring day. The weather
is peculiar; we say, “How cold it is,” some
days, and sit around a big fire, wear over-
coats and furs when we go out, and still
we have had no freezing weather yet, and
no snow. On December 1st we had just

[column 2]
such a day as today, in fact we have many
of them, and others that are stormy and
cold. Yesterday (Sunday) it rained all
day and made me think of one of our cold
fall storms at home
	We have had three distinct shocks
of earthquake, too, during the last twenty-
four hours. We have these so often,
though, that we do not pay much attention
to them. They rock us a little in our beds
at night, and move the pictures on the wall,
or rattle the windows or dishes, but we are
getting used to this, if they are not worse,
we shall not mind it. I was going to say,
on December 1st I looked out into our
garden and saw one tree with bright red
autumn tints, another a pale yellow, one a
vivid, fresh, spring green, two or three
with barren branches, looking like the
trees at home at this time of the year, and
some full of buds that looked like they
were just ready to burst. Then there is a
whole hedge of camelias, the leaves a dark,
glistening green, and hundreds of buds
that come out a few at a time, and will con-
tinue to do so, I suppose, until spring,
whenever it is warm enough. We have a
bouquet on the table all the time of the
pretty pink and red flowers, the former
you can hardly tell from roses, and we still
continue to pick a few rosebuds from the
tree that grows by our window. Today as
I look out over the country I see a few of
the autumn tints, with every shade of green
for there is a regular forest of evergreens
and palms in our garden, and a great vari-
ety of trees whose foliage is strange to me.
In many places we see a little patch of
ground cultivated, with fresh green vege-
tables growing, looking like a spring gar-
den, but I am sorry to say that most of the
vegetables of that kind are new to us, and
that we do not like, and besides we never
use anything in this country that cannot
be washed and peeled, on account of the
way they use their fertilizers.
	I think this weather is beautiful, only I
feel like I had too many winter clothes on
today, but the boys are longing for winter
weather. When Thanksgiving and Christ-
mas draw near they want to see the snow.
	For fruit at this time of the year we have
oranges and apples, any amount of them.
The oranges are like those queer little
Japanese oranges that the children buy
down town sometimes, and a Chinese or-
ange that is more like the kind we have at
home, but not nearly so nice. We rather
like the Japanese oranges, they are very
juicy and peel very easily, the skin almost
comes off in one whole piece. but they are
very sour. and we have to eat them with
sugar. They are very cheap, though, one
day we bought three hundred for sixty-five
cents. The apples are very nice, I think
they are all imported.
	I must tell you about a visit we paid to
some of our Japanese friends not long ago.
Heber and I had been thinking for some
time that we should repay the calls of the
families where the boys are boarding, and
who have been so very kind to them and
to us. We walked to the first place, which
is only a short distance from here, and Miss

[column 3]
Mashimo and her mother met us at the
door, our shoes were removed and we were
given mats to sit on. The boys were all
there taking their lesson, so we did not
disturb them, but conversed with our
Japanese friends. Young Mr. Mashimo
came in and he can talk a little English,
and he assisted in our entertainment. They
first brought in a plate of cakes of various
kinds which they placed on the floor before
us. I tried to eat one, but it was very
peculiar, one of the kind Alma told about.
The inside was made of brown beans,
ground up with sugar, making a kind of
“gum-drop” substance, with dough on the
outside. We broke one in two, and Heber
swallowed his half, but I could not, though
I tried to emulate his brave example. Next
they brought in apples and the little Japan-
ese oranges. They do not consider it right
to pass you the fruit and let you wait on
yourself, but always peel it for you. The
fruit was quite nice, and we ate some of
that, also tasted some of the boiled sweet
potatoes that were served with the fruit,
but as we had just gotten up from the dinner
table at home before we started we were
not at all hungry. The next things they
brought in was some little crisp cakes that
looked and tasted like ginger snaps, but are
called “thunder cakes.” They have no
ovens to bake in, and these cakes are baked
in a kind of griddle, and from the noise
and sputtering they make while baking they
get their name. Mr. Mashimo gave us his
picture, and his sister gave us her thimble,
needle case and ivory marker that she was
using in her sewing, all of which are great
novelties to us. The thimble is like a
ring, and worn on the middle joint of the
finger. They are the greatest people to be
always giving presents, and we hardly know
what to do to keep even with them. We
harldly ever go to their houses that they
do not give us flowers and pins for the
hair, flower pots, fruit, etc. One young man
brought us a lacquer box full of sweet pota-
toes, mashed and all ready to eat, with his
very best compliments. When Brother
Grant was here before they gave him a
sword and offered him a pheasant, but he
could not accept that, as he could not pos-
sibly take care of it. Brother Ensign is
favored with birds. When he was here
alone living at a Japanese house he bought
a canary to keep him company, and one of
his callers seeing it thought he must be
fond of birds, and so gave him another.
Since we have been here Mr. Mashimo
brought him a skylark, a little girl gave
him another little bird of some kind, and
last of all the laundryman brought him two
more. He thinks of going into business
now.
	To go back to our visit. After spending
a very pleasant hour with the Mashimo
family, we said we would go to make our
call on the other family, where Sanford and
Fred are staying, the Nirayama family.
Mrs. Nirayama is the daughter of the
Mashimos. The names of the Japanese
nearly all have some signification, especi-
ally the given names of the girls. Niray-
ama means, the latter part, “yama” moun-


[Column 1]
tain, and the first part "good spirit." Mrs. 
Nirayama's first name is “Yuki,” snow,
and her sister's name, that is Miss Mashimo,
is "Yaye," cherry blossom. Speaking of
mountains, I have a fine view of"Fujiyama"
from my window, when it is pleasant, the
great volcanic mountain that the people
consider sacred, and that we see pictured on
everything almost, by way of decoration.
	In going to Nirayama's we had to take
rikishas, and Miss Mashimo ran out and
ordered them and her brother paid for
them before we knew anything about it or
could interfere. Arriving at the house,
Mr N. and his wife met us at the door and
welcomed us most hospitably. We had to
take off our shoes again here, and I decided
that if I lived in a Japanese house or visited
them very often, that I would certainly
wear Japanese shoes that can be put on and
off with little trouble, and are so much
like stilts that you never get your feet
muddy. 
	We had only been in the house a short
time when they invited us to go and see
the chrysanthemum exhibit. We were
pleased to go, and put on our shoes again
and laced them up ready for our short
walk.
	The gardens were beautiful with chry-
santhemums of every variety—pale laven-
der, pink, yellow, white, purple, and every
shade of red. The boys, Sanford and Fred,
had been there in the morning and had
bought a large plant for us. It was in a
large pot, and there were over twenty
beautiful crimson flowers on it; it cost
twenty-five cents for the pot and all, deliv-
ered. They had to fix a network of ropes
so that a man could carry it on his back,
and he walked about two miles to our
house. It would have been all the same if
it had been four miles, though, for as I
have said before, labor does not seem to
count for much in this land, where wash-
ing and ironing is done for two cents
apiece, no matter what the size of the 
article.
	We saw another plant that we admired
very much, and bought it for twenty-two
and a half cents There were about twenty
beautiful white flowers on it. When we 
got home our Japanese convert said we had
paid too much for it, about seventeen and a
half cents would have been about right.
How we all wished we could have had
some of these beautiful plants set down be-
fore you folks at home, I know you would
appreciate them as much as we do. We
have never been without flowers in our
rooms since we came here.
	After we had seen enough of the chry-
santhemum garden, we returned to the 
Niryama's and they insisted on our stay-
ing to supper. They will send out to a
restaurant and get foreign food for any of
us who visit them, but it is not cooked in a
way that is very appetizing, and we all
prefer their food, that is, some of it, and
what we don't like we don't need to eat.
Their fish is cooked very nicely, broiled
over a hibachi, sometimes, and then they
have boiled fish, pickled fish, sweet pota-
toes and lotus root sliced and fried in bat-
ter, beans cooked in sugar, and seaweed
pickled or boiled or something, I couldn't
tell you what, for it looked terrible, and I
could not get up sufficient courage to taste
it, although I tried to taste everything just
to see what it was. Their rice is cooked
very nicely, but without a particle of salt,
and you are not supposed to eat anything
on it, just eat it with chop-sticks. I am

[Column 2]
getting quite expert with chopsticks, and
the boys prefer them, for some things, to
knives and forks. They had lots of other
things, strange looking vegetables, pickled,
fried or boiled, and served with various
kinds of sauces, and soup with many
strange ingredients in it. I have counted
twenty different kinds of their food some
times when we have been invited out to
dinner. We sit on the floor to eat, and the
food is usually served on little trays, one
for each person, set on the floor before you,
but they have little tables sometimes, about
a half a foot or a foot high. We had a
terribly poor picture taken of one of our
dinner parties, which I will send you, so
that you can see the way we ate our dinner,
although we look anything but lovely.
	We had a very pleasant visit this evening
that I speak of at the Nirayama’s, spend-
ing the time looking at photographs and
curios that Mr. N. had brought from Ger-
many and other places. He is a very intel-
ligent man, has made a trip around the
world in a suite of a prince of the Imperial
household. He lived three years in Ger-
many, and visited all the principal countries
on his trip around the world. He has
some of the most beautiful decorations, pins
and medals that have been presented to 
him by the noted people whom he has met on
his travels. One we especially admired was
given him by Prince Henry of Germany,
whom we all heard so much about just
about a year ago. Mrs. Nirayama is a pret
ty, lively little person, and talks very fast,
and what we cannot understand from her
words she makes out with signs. She is
far from the downtrodden creature we are
led to suppose that all Japanese women
are, for she carries the money and the keys
and looks after the valuables and when her
husband wants anything he has to ask her
for it. We think it is wonderful and very
fortunate that the boys have been admitted
to such fine families
	After spending a very pleasant evening
we put on our shoes for the last time
and came home in rikishas, for which Mr. 
Nirayama insisted on paying. Heber in-
vited the families at both places and all the
boys to go to Asakusa Park next day to
see the temples, flowers, menagerie, etc.,
and we spent a very pleasant day there.

Monday, December 22, 1902.
	Two mails have gone since I commenced
my letter, but it has seemed as though I
could not find time to finish it Another
mail goes tomorrow, and I will make a
desperate effort to get my letter off by that.
We have been doing our Christmas shop-
ping for the folks here, and with lessons,
callers, etc., our time seems to fly. We are
making all preparations for a Christmas
just as near like what we have at home as
possible, and the boys have got a beautiful
tree and it stands in place in one corner of
our big dining room ready for the orna-
ments. Everything is so cheap here that
for a few cents each we have almost more
than we can put on the tree. We heard
over a week ago that our Christmas box
was coming from America, but we have
not heard of its arrival yet. (Since Aunt 
Gusta wrote this, I have received a card
that our Christmas box is in Yokohama.
H. J. G.) There is a steamer due today, and
if it does not come on that we will not get
it till after Christmas. We are all in hopes
it will come, for Mrs. Hedges said she has
sent a plum pudding for me and a box of
candy for Mrs. Ensign; and there is a cake

[Column 3]
for some one, besides the candy Lutie
speaks about, and we are all quite anxious.
The girls have been making candy today,
for fear it does not come. We have all
been invited to Yokohama for dinner
Christmas Eve, and to spend the evening at
Mrs. Bagnalls It was her daughter who
came over on the "Kaga Maru" with us,
she had been in America four years at
school, and had just graduated. They are
wealthy people, and Mrs. Bagnall has in-
vited us a number of times to call, but we
were quite surprised when we got such a
pressing and cordial invitation for all of
our little colony, everyone, underscored, to
come down to dinner Christmas Eve We
think it rather strange, and very nice, too,
that of all the people here our American
friends should single out the "Mormon 
Colony" for such a favor.
	The purser on the boat that Heber went
home on, the "Gaelic," remembered us
with a fine box of San Francisco candy,
and a little remembrance for Mary in the
shape of a candy plum pudding, on his last
trip from America.
	Heber has hired a rikisha man this last
month, so now we have our ' private car-
riage." and it does not cost so much as it does
at home Just think, he only pays seven dol-
lars and a half a month for the man, who
furnishes his own rikisha and boards him-
self. He has a wife and child to support
besides, and nothing but this seven dollars
and a half for everything they have to eat
and clothe themselves with. Of course
they don't have much clothing, she and the
child wear kimonos, and he wears some
little pants that do not reach to his knees,
and his feet and legs are bare this cold
weather. He wears some sort of a jacket
and a big hat. They have only one little
room, it looks about as large as our bath
room at home, and the rest of the building
he uses for his rikisha. It is built in the
front corner of our lot and from our stand-
point has the choice of location, that and
the woodshed, barn, etc., but that is the 
way they arrange things here.
	Christmas will be a thing of the past
when this letter reaches you, and I hope
you will all have a happy time. We are
all just as well and happy as we can be,
and I feel more contented here all the time.
Heber says all the time that we do not need
to think of going home for two or three
years longer, and I don't care so much as I 
did when we first came, then I thought a
year would be all I would want. I have
just room to sign my name, and send my
love to all of you.
With much love to you all,
Aunt Gusta.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS

Mrs. Squeirs, wife of the American min-
ster to Cuba, is trying to organize a society
for the prevention of cruelty to animals.
	King Edward’s coming to the throne has
been celebrated in India with gorgeous
magnificence. The report read like a chap-
ter from the Arabian Nights. The expense,
of course, has been lavish and enormous.
At the same time the newspaper dispatches
report a terrible famine in Finland—thou-
sand of brave and intelligent people are on
the verge of starvation—and in Russia a
frightful famine of still wider extent, en-
volving fifteen million hungry peasants and
untold thousands of starving horses and
cattle.                                       Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


SLUMBER LAND.

When stars gleam out in the evening skies,
	And flowers are hanging their heavy heads,
We journey off to a distant land,
	As the little ones rock in their cradle beds.

We glide through the twilight of Drowsy Lane,
	Where weary white eyelids drop softly down
And cover the light of the merry eyes
	That are blue and hazel and gray and brown.

We reach the valley of Half-Awake,
	Where the shadows ever so lightly fall,
And come to the dusk-veiled Bridge of Doze,
	Where giant Dreams are the warders tall.

And then, as the little heads nod and sway,
	And lower and lower sink slowly down,
We come to the wonderful Land of Sleep
	And enter its city, fair Slumber town.

The stars are the golden lamps that light
	The vision-paved streets of that city fair,
And lullabies are the music sweet
	That softly falls on the drowsy air.

And white winged dreamlets like angels float
	Above the spot where the children sleep,
And whisper them tales of wondrous things
	As they rock them off into slumber deep!
								SELECTED.


MY SISTER.

My Sister thou art troubled ! Wherefore move
So hardly in that old-time, narrow groove?
Get out of it! Step higher ! Then look back;
And see how graceless that low, misty track !
‘Tis but for earth-worms, mis'rable and cramped;
Our Father’s seal hath on thy brow been stamped;
Thou art His child ! Peacemaker thou shouldst be,
In every case which may appeal to thee,

And when unruly tongues would chafe thine ear,
With things unsisterly to speak or hear,
Which thou must answer, make thou this excuse,
“She is my sister whom thou wouldst traduce;
My Father's daughter ! And to soil her name,
Would give our family roll the mark of shame. 
Mistakes she may have made, but I must say 
Some pow’r misled her—it was not her way.”

Cease multiplying errors, black or red;
Erase them rather, leaving blanks instead;
Which she, our sister, may hereafter fill
With kindly deeds and words of sweet good will.
Should brilliant thought of thine another claim,
Be not too hasty to detract or blame;
For waves of thought like rays of light extend,
And who shall say where they begin or end ?

What matters it, since this last boon is free,
Of service in Our Father’s cause to be ?
If faithful as His daughter thou wouldst prove.
Climb on the ‘‘stumbling blocks,” leave the old
	groove,
Get higher ! Far above unholy strife,
Yet be more humble, in thy purer life,
For all who sland’rously their feelings ease,
Keep this kind motto’ “She's my sister, please.”

And when “the books” are opened at the last,
And the head Keeper over them shall cast
A just, though critical and searching glance,
When thy list shall be read, thou’lt hear per-
chance.
(As with “the other book” he shall compare,)
“Why were not credits entered here and there?”'
Wherein ’twas said, in place of speaking ill.
“She is my Fathers daughter—please be still.”

LOUISA L. GREENE RICHARDS.


THE NEW YEAR.

[Read at the New Year’s party, Cannonville,
Utah.]

	Good bye to the old year that has dis-
appeared for aye, never more to come
again. It has dealt kindly with us and we
will enshrine it gratefully in our memories.
	Few shadows lie on its receeding path-
way, and for the sunshine, the happiness
and pleasures of the past we may well be
thankful
	The hours that are past and gone we can
never recall, but in the future, as it comes,
every mistake can be corrected, and the
 hours be made to bubble over with useful-
ness and good.


The days of the new year will come
marching on, and may we improve the
shining moments that hare been designated
the “gold dust of time.”

New Year ! New Year dawning on us here,
Bring us many joys through this glad New Year,
May it hourly bring us peace and plenty too,
To the ones around us, though we number few.

New Year ! New Year ! may thy numerous days,
Glisten, ever glisten with joyous, happy rays;
May each flitting day a blessing to us be,
Until the last day of the year is but a memory.

New Year! New Year! may the months pass by,
Gliding smoothly for us in their coming nigh;
And our hearts beat happy till the welkin ring,
With another New Year’s praises, which we joy
	ous sing.

New Year! New Year ! we happy greet you here.
May we have no sadness, shed no bitter tear,
May our glad hearts raise in prayer, and praise
	and love,
To our loving Ruler in the heavens above,

EMILY B. SPENCER.


[Column One]
S. L. PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

The Salt Lake Primary held a most in-
teresting cenference in Barratt Hall, on
the 20th of December last. All the mem-
bers of the Stake Board were present on
the platform and they were most agreeably
surprised at the splendid turnout of the
little folks, for never before had there been
so well attended a conference. There were
830 children; besides the officers and par-
ents that were present, and the spirit and
enthusiasm of the conference were beauti-
ful and inspiring. Sister Camilla Cobb
presided in her customary genial and pleas-
ant way. The roll call was very entertain-
ing, each ward responding with a senti-
ment, after stating the number present.
A most interesting program was rendered,
each number being very much appreciated
by the little folks and deserving of special
mention, but two little girls, Rhea Little-
wood, of the 29th ward, and Lucile Snow
Critchlow, of the 8th ward, were cun-
niug in their recitations and the little
boys’ band, of the 8th ward, furnished
most pleasing music.
One of the features of the conference
was the sketch of the life of President Geo.
Q. Cannon, by his little granddaughter
Emmeline, and if at the conferences this
idea is carried out and the children give simi-
lar sketches of the lives of our beloved lead
ers, it will not only be instructive, but will
keep in mind their good deeds and their
devotion to the Church, and we take great
pleasure in publishing the sketch the little
girl gave with the thought that it will be
not only pleasant reading, but an example
for future use.                  A. W. C.

SKETCH
I live in the ward, of this Stake which
was named for my grandpa, George Q. Can-
non. He was one of the first to make his
home there. Long before that, my grand-
ma gathered thistles for food near the very
spot where our house now stands. He was
known by everybody in the ward and by
nearly everybody in this Church; and all
who knew him loved him, for he was
good all his days. He came to America
when a boy of fifteen years. He was born
seventy-five years ago in England. His
mother died on the ship and was buried at
sea  Soon afterwards, his father also died,
he was left at the head of a family of small
brothers and sisters. He met and loved
the Prophet Joseph Smith, though he was
only seventeen when that great man was

[Column 2]
murdered. He also knew, almost as if he
were a son, President Young and Presi-
dent Taylor. President Taylor was his
uncle, and with his family be came to this
valley the first year of its settlement.  He
was chosen first counselor to President
Taylor also to President Woodruff and
President Snow, Many years of his
life were spent on missions, and his
voice has been heard, not only in the coun-
tries of Europe and the United States, but
also in the lauguage of the islands of the
western sea. He was always obedient to
those placed over him and whatever he did
was by counsel. As a boy he made adobes
and hauled wood out of the canyons. As a
youth he dug gold, preached the Gospel
and wrote for the press. Between missions
he did emigration business for the Church,
and went to Washington to look alter the
welfare of his people. Then, as he grew
older, and after he became an Apostle, man-
aged newspapers, wrote books and for
magazines, sat in Congress and became a
leader in business throughout Zion. With
it all, he was ever a willing worker in the
cause of truth and one of the greatest
preachers and thinkers of our time. He
died on the 12th of April, a year and a
half ago. The great features of his life
were his humility, honesty and faith in
God. He knew and testified that the Lord
lived, and his highest, desire was to do His
will.


A WORD TO MOTHERS.
A child is the most helpless of all God’s
creation. The first thing for parents is to
look after the health of their children. In
doing so, dress them with warm flannel
next their bodies and have them eat at
regular hours, little meat, if any, and
plenty of milk and fruit
When old enough to run about they
should have plenty of outdoor exercise, in
cold weather as well as warm, carefully
dressed according to the weather.
Parents cannot bestow too much affection
upon their children. Children should never
be trifled with, but when speaking to them -
let them know that you mean what jou
say. Rule with love and kindness I
think a good plan for parents would-be to
learn to control themselves before trying to
control their children. It is wrong to pun-
ish in anger, it is better for children to obey
through love than fear, and to be taught
that they have a good Father in heaven
who sees them, and He watches over them
as well as their earthly parents.
Parents should teach their children the
principles of the Gospel, they will be held
responsible if they do not. They should
also teach them the object of their mission
on earth, how to control their passions and
appetites. Mothers should watch their
children very closely, find out their little
troubles and actions, encourage them to
ask questions and never fail to answer them
to their satisfaction.
Teach them the Word of Wisdom: that
it is their duty to prolong their lives upon
the earth. Children should be taught to
listen to the promptings of the Holy Spirit,
and to believe that it is their privilege to be
guided by it in all the affairs of life. Teach
them noble principles, that to be truly great
they must be truly good. Teach them to
be industrious early, in life and to exercise
every faculty they possess. Prayer in the
season thereof, also secret prayer.
MARY S. CLARK.


60				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
5o cts. No reduction made for clubs.	City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates:	Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to

				Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
[-]econd-class matter.
                      
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1903


[column 1]
	WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	The women of the State may be justly
proud of Mrs. Mary E. Coulter, the
one woman in the Legislature, for the
upright course she has taken as an inde-
pendent American citizen. She has been
put on some of the most important com-
mittees, and we have every reason to be-
lieve she will do good work in whatever
capacity she is serving the people. Indeed
we hope the results of her activity will be
so beneficial and far-reaching that the men
in the House will be willing to nominate
several women when County Conventions
are called again. How men can be so nar-
row in politics as not to nominate women
in a state where it is expected women will
vote for them, and work for all good and
wholesome measures to maintain a high
standard of excellence for the community,
is a conundrum. The women who have
served in the Legislature heretofore have been
as wise and as judicious as most, if not all
of the men members at any rate, and there
can be no good reason why they should not
receive the courtesy at least of a fair pro-
portion in the nominations. Women are
taxpayers, that is a well known fact, and
they should be entitled to equal political
priviliges.
	Mrs. Percy Widrington recently said in
one of her speeches on “Indirect Influence,”
“There is no such thing as keeping women
out of politics if they are determined to go
in—not even in Turkey. The only ques-
tion is 'Shall their influence be open and
honorable, direct and for good; or shall it
be indirect, secret, irresponsible—at least
occasionally bad, and sometimes disgrace-
ful? Shall women come into public affairs
by creeping up the back stairs, or shall
they enter by the front door?’”
	Speaking of the War Office in the British
government she said, “It is here that politi-
cal government is strongest” She quotes
an army man who said, “When Lord
Kitchner promotes a man we know it is be-
cause he deserves it, but when Lord Rob-
erts does it, we know it is because Lady
Roberts has told him to and he has to.”
	The President of the United States, His
Excellency, Theodore Roosevelt, has put
himself on record as an equal Suffragist,
therefore the women all over the country
are desirous of pushing the Constitutional
amendment asking for universal suffrage,
during his administration.

[column 2]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Kansas State Grange have petitioned
the Legislature of the State of Kansas to
support the bill giving to women the right
to vote for the President of the United
States in 1904.
	The Stake secretaries will please remem-
ber the annual reports for 1902 from Janu-
ary 1, to December 31, and prepare and
send them in as soon as possible. Missions
and branches outside of Stakes and missions
will also be expected to make proper re-
ports. Address Mrs. E. B. Wells; Temple-
ton, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	We have been requested by the Cor.
Sec’y of the National Council of Women of
the United States to announce officially
that the next Executive Session of the
National Council will be held in New
Orleans, Louisana, in March 26 to 29, in-
clusive, at the St. Charles Hotel. These
meetings will follow the Convention of the
National American Suffrage Association.
	It would seem there is great activity
manifest at least in our own country in re-
gard to public matters. Women are look-
ing critically into Civil Service Reform in a
systematic way and in our own State the
Kindergarten and Domestic Science meas-
ures are being looked after by committees
appointed from all the active women’s
organizations, and they will make a vigor-
ous campaign in the interest of these much
needed educational interests.
	The State Historical Society, composed
of both men and women, is also beginning
to feel the need of some assistance from the
State to acquire and preserve valuable relics
and historic pioneer mementoes that other-
wise would be lost to the coming genera-
tions, and which certainly should be a
part of the history and sociology of the set-
tlement and growth of this Rocky Moun-
tain and desert region. It is strange there is
little interest is this matter when one con-
siders what pains have been taken and
what means expended to collect and care
for antiquities from other countries.


MRS. RITER’S PARTY.

	Brother W. V. Riter was agreeably sur-
prised on his return home from the Temple
on Thursday afternoon, January 15, to find
his home filled with guests, brethren and
sisters, acquaintances of his through many
long years, most of them, and co-laborers
in the House of the Lord and in other im-
portant positions of trust. Mrs. Riter is a
charming hostess and everything down to
the minutest detail had been carefully and
artistically arranged.
	A sumptuous banquet was served and
conversation was general and of an enliven-
ing character. President Joseph F. Smith
and wife, President John R. Winder and
wife, also President Anthon H. Lund and
other Church dignitaries were present, and
after all had regaled themselves with the
delicious repast, the tables were removed
and the intellectual feast began. First,
singing of hymns and some old-fashioned
songs, and then Bishop Romney by request
taking the initiative, called upon President
Joseph F. Smith for remarks.
	President Smith responded in the hap-
piest manner, entertaining and instructing
all who were assembled.
Others who answered to the call of Bish-


op Romney were Hon. James Sharp Elder
John Nicholson and the host himself, Hon-
W. W. Riter, and at last Bishop Romney
himself was so persistently called for that
he rather reluctantly consented.	Sister E.
B. Wells was also requested to speak a few
words, and then President Smith and some
others added a few words. principally con-
cerning visits to Nauvoo and the condition
of things there and in Carthage, the feel-
ings of the people there, and the great
changes that had taken place in sentiment
and appearances.
	The evening was delightfully passed and
the spirit of the gathering was of a deeply
spiritual nature and tendency. Such enter-
tainments are delightful and inspire love
and confidence in the hearts of those who
are susceptible of partaking of heavenly
influences. The guests are certainly in-
debted to Mrs. Riter for an enjoyable recre-
ation from daily cares.


A DELIGHTFUL AFTERNOON.
	On Tuesday, January 20, 1903, Mrs.
Elizabeth S Wilcox gave a delightful party
to a number of ladies who thoroughly en-
joyed the time socially, exchanging ideas,
also reminiscences of the past and renewing
friendly acquaintance, as such busy women
rarely have such pleasant opportunities to
converse together. Mrs. Wilcox had ar-
ranged for the finest music, having secured
Prof. William Clive, the talented violin
genius, and his little son and his daughter
Agnes, who are also specially gifted in
music. The selections given by them
during the afternoon were indeed a musical
feast, and Mrs. Maggie C. Hull also sang
in her best style and obliging manner some
favorite pieces suitable to the occasion.
	Dainty refreshments were served to the
guests on little tables of threes and fives and
there were about forty ladies present, in-
cluding the General officers of the Relief
Society and the Salt Lake Stake officers and
the entire Relief Society of the Seventeenth
Ward, of which Mrs. Wilcox had been
secretary when residing there previous to
moving into her new home on First St. in
the Twentieth Ward.
	Mrs. Wilcox is a very genial hostess and
her home is artistic in its furnishings and
appointments and well adapted for recep-
tions or parties of fifty or a hundred people.
The EXPONENT offers its congratulations to
Dr. and Mrs. Wilcox, and wishes them
many years of happiness and prosperity in
their comfortable and pleasant surroundings.


IN MEMORIAM.
MARY ELLEN AND RUTH REESE KIMBALL.
	Two pioneer women passed away during
the last year at the ripe age of four score,
beloved and respected by all who knew
them.  Both were wives of the late Heber
C. Kimball and had lived many years to-
gether, and had been baptized into the
Church about the same time in the city of
Utica, State of New York. Their’s was a
friendship which extended through long
years with its many changes, and the wish
had been expressed that one might not
long outlive the other, and indeed it proved
so, the time only being about one month
apart.
	Sister Mary Ellen Harris Kimball, who
died October 28, was born in Charleston,
Montgomery Co., New York, October 5,
1818, and had a good education, an excel-


[column 1]
lent memory, and was trained in habits of
industry, was a fine seamstress and natur-
ally of a religious turn of mind.  She em-
braced the Gospel when a young girl and
was baptized by Elder James Blakely in
1842. Soon after she went to the city of
Nauvoo, where she became acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith, of whose
divine mission she testified as long as she
lived. She accepted the principle of plural
marriage and became the wife of President
Heber C. Kimball, with whom she received
all the blessings of the new and everlasting
covenant in the Nauvoo Temple.
	Sister Mary Ellen was a woman of great
humility, and was a natural teacher; she
taught school in the little school house
built by Brother Kimball during the first
years of the settlement in this valley, and
was for many years a teacher in the Sun-
day Schools in the different wards where
she resided. All the children loved her,
she was especially adapted to this class of
teaching. She was of a benevolent and
sympathetic disposition and charitable in
the best sense of the word, the “charity
that thinketh no ill.” She was for many
years a teacher in the Relief Society, in
fact, ever after its organization in Salt
Lake City as long as she was able to visit.
	While a resident of the 14th ward she
was counselor to the president of the Pri-
mary Association, and her judgment could
always be depended upon.
	She possessed indeed many of the rarest
and best womanly virtues. Sister Mary Ellen
was a contributor for years to the columns
of the EXPONENT writing much over the
signature of “Zion’s Convert.” Her writ-
ings were always upon Gospel subjects.
She was very fond of the Book of Mormon
and made it a theme of some of her essays.
	Sister Mary Ellen was a consistent Latter-
day Saint, never murmuring under the
most adverse circumstances or severe trials.
She was one of the pioneers of 1847, cross
ing the plains from the Missouri river that
year in the company that followed the
pioneers, enduring all the fatigue of that
tedious and arduous journey. She was
also one who shared in the memorable ex-
odus from Nauvoo in the dead of winter,
1846  Her life was made up of sacrifices,
yet she never repined: always faithful and
true.
	Though she loved children and had the
motherly tenderness developed in a large
degree, she was only given one, a boy named
Peter, who died in infancy, therefore we
may say her long life was a consecration to
the good of others and to the Latter-day
work.
	Sister Mary Ellen Kimball passed away
peacefully without much pain or suffering,
dearly beloved by all who knew her. The
funeral services were held in the Twelfth
Ward meeting house, on Friday October
31, at 2 o'clock p. m , Bishop H. B. Claw-
son presiding. President Joseph F. Smith
was one of the speakers and paid a glowing
tribute to her memory, as did also Presi-
dent Seymour B. Young, of the Presidency
of the Seventies, and others. The music
was sweet and soothing and there were
many floral gifts from dear and loving
friends.
	We cannot mourn for such a Saint. We
know her rest is sweet and that she
will come forth in the morning of the first
resurrection clothed with immortality; glori-
ous thought, and dwell forever with those
she loved while here on earth.

[column 2]
	Beyond life’s trials,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow;
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be a long, sweet night unmarked by years,
	One bright unending morrow!

	Beyond life’s troubled stream,
Beyond the chilling waves of death’s dark river,
Beyond life’s lowering clouds and fitful gleams,
Its dark realities and brighter dreams,
	A beautiful forever.


Sister Ruth A. Reese Kimball departed
this life at her home N. East Temple Street
on the evening of November 26, 1902.
Sister Kimball was born at Beaverville,
Penn., May 19, 1818, but as has been pre-
viously stated, was living in Utica, New
York, at the time she heard and embraced
the Gospel, and where she was baptized in
1842. Afterwards she went to Nauvoo,
where she was taught the principle of plur-
al marriage and was married to President
Heber C. Kimball. She was one of those
who left Nauvoo at the time of the exodus
in midwinter and shared in all the hard-
ships of that perilous journey from that
beautiful city to Winter Quarters. There
she endured with others the suffering in-
cident to the period, uncomplainingly and
with heroic fortitude. Sister Ruth was
one who was ever willing to lend a helping
hand in times of need and sickness, a kind-
ly heart, generous impulses and unbounded
sympathy with the unfortunate and sor-
rowing. “None knew her but to love
her,” and she was indeed greatly beloved
in the Kimball family; she was a woman
best known in her own home circle, being
of a domestic nature and a retiring dispo-
sition. She was the mother of three chil-
dren, one daughter and two sons; one son,
Enoch, when grown to manhood accidently
shot himself while out hunting, which was
a great loss and sorrow. Sister Kimball
was a most affectionate mother, and the
untimely death of her only living son seemed
almost more than she could bear, but she
bravely “passed under the rod,” and trust-
ing in an alwise God, acknowledged His
hand even in this sore trial.
	Twelve years ago she was afflicted with
blindness, brought on, it is said, by her
constant attendance upon the sick. Her
patience under this terrible ordeal, her sub-
lime resignation has been a perfect marvel
to those who were ever witnesses of her
fortitude.
	Although shut in, as it were, from par-
ticipating in all the enjoyments that seem
necessary to happiness here, yet Sister
Kimball preserved that serenity of char-
acter that lifted her above the common
realities of everyday concerns. She lived
in a higher and better atmosphere, and to
all who came to see her she testified of the
truths of the Gospel   Such examples of
sublime courage should be impressed upon
the hearts of the youth of Zion. Dear
Aunt Ruth, she was indeed a Saint, and
beloved of all who knew her. She was
tenderly cared for during all the years of
her blindness, by relatives who anticipated
every want and need and ministered as
they would have done to their own mother.
And for these blessed ministrations of love
may they be rewarded a hundredfold.
	Sister Ruth has gone into the blessed
mansions where there is no darkness.

	No long, dark night is there,
No light from sun or silvery moon is given;
But Christ, the Lamb of God, all bright and fair,
Illumes the city with effulgence rare,
	The glorious light of heaven!

	Sister Kimball’s funeral services were

[column 3]
held in the Eighteenth Ward chapel, Bishop
Orson F. Whitney presiding. The remarks
by the speakers were loving tributes of
praise to her memory, and beautiful floral
offerings adorned the casket that contained
the mortal remains of this sainted woman.
She has passed from death into life.
	Of both these dear sisters and mothers
in Israel what more can be said than “Bles-
sed are the dead that die in the Lord, yea
from henceforth, they rest from their labors
and their works do follow them.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO THE RELIEF
			SOCIETY.

	There is no study more important than
thot of child and mother study, for long be-
fore the majority of mothers are conscious
of the fact the child’s ideas of life, of right,
of duty, of pleasure, of usefulness, are re-
ceiving a bent which all the education of
schools and colleges cannot uproot, hence
we suggest mothers’ meetings as a very
important addition to every Relief Society
organization, for a handful of earnest women
can create an influence in a community
which is unlimited in its force.
	If you examine carefully the instructions
given by the Prophet Joseph to the first
organization of the Relief Society you will
find rules and regulations sufficient to suc-
cessfully carry on all gatherings according
to parliamentary law. The president of
each Relief Society should select a live,
energetic woman to take charge of these
department meetings, and allow her to
choose two or more assistants forming a
committee of three, and with them should
plan a course of study to meet the needs of
the people with whom she is working.
Whenever possible, obtain the services of
a lecturer who has given the work special
study. Encourage discussion, for you
very often gain valuable information from
experienced mothers.
	Seek information on these subjects from
educational books and journals, besides the
Church journals we would recommend the
kindergarten magazines, a little monthly
journal known as Motherhood, one (by
name) Educational Foundations. Books:
Miss Harrison’s Child Nature, Radell’s
Child Culture, the Latter-day Saints Church
History and The Child's History of Joseph
Smith, the Prophet.

	GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS.

	In the minutes of the first organization of
the Society it is very noticeable that Presi-
dent Joseph Smith stated that meetings
were to be conducted according to parlia-
mentary usages; in fact, quoting his own
words from the record kept by Sister Eliza
R. Snow, the secretary, President Smith
said, “When one wishes to speak, address
the chair and the chairman responds to the
address.”
	“Should two speak at once, the chair-
man decides who speaks first, if anyone is
dissatisfied she appeals to the house.”
	“When one has the floor she occupies it
as long as she wishes, (unless the time is
limited) The proper manner of address is
Mrs. Chairman, or Mrs. President, and not
Mr. Chairman, etc.”
	“A question can never be put until it
has a second; when the subject for discus-
sion has been fairly investigated, the chair-
man will say. “Are you ready for the
question? Whatever the majority of the
house decide upon becomes a law to the
Society.”


[column 1]
	Thus it will be seen that the Prophet 
gave them a lesson, as it were, in parlia-
mentary law. 
It is desired that the sisters observe this 
rule in all meetings where business is 
transacted, and become accustomed to the 
practice. 
The Prophet also said: "Let the presi-
dency serve as a constitution, all their de-
cisions be considered law and acted upon 
as such; the minutes of your meetings will 
be precedents for you to act upon—your
constitution and law." 
	CARE OF RELIEF SOCIETY WHEAT. 
	So many letters of inquiry are sent to us 
concerning the wheat gathered and cared 
for by the Society, that it seems necessary 
to give special instructions on this subject. 
Whenever the sisters have wheat on 
hand that needs to be changed, because of 
not being in good condition, and they are 
at a loss to know what to do with it, it is 
advisable to loan it to reliable persons with 
the understanding that it be returned with 
one peck on the bushel interest added, and 
the Bishop or some one or two business 
men to become security for the loan. This 
agreement should be in writing. If it is 
sold instead of being loaned, there must be 
no speculating, as the wheat is for a certain 
purpose and not a money-making scheme. 
Of course if wheat is selling at a certain 
price, and by buying again you can get a 
larger quantity because the price is lower, 
there could be no harm, but if the wheat is 
good enough to bring a high price there 
seems to be no good reason for its being 
sold Any farmer could show you how to 
scatter unslacked lime among the wheat to 
keep out weevils. The wheat should be
turned over or shifted from one b[-]n to
another at least once a year, and that helps 
very materially to keep it in good condition. 
Where the Society has money on hand 
which has been donated to buy wheat, the 
president should purchase the wheat and 
see that it is taken care of properly, instead 
of keeping the money on hand, as it is 
wheat that will be wanted when scarcity or 
famine comes and not the money. It is a 
source of satisfaction to those interested in 
these things, to note how faithful the sis-
ters have been in obeying the counsel in 
regard to saving wheat, and in using every 
effort, seemingly, to build bins and gran-
aries in which to store the wheat against 
a time of need. 
		WOMAN'S BUILDING. 
	The sisters in all the Stakes of Zion are 
aware of the intention of erecting a woman's
building suitable for meetings and other 
purposes to be owned and controlled equal-
ly by the Relief Society, the Y. L. N. M. 
I A. and the Primary Association. Money 
has been voluntarily donated from the 
Relief Society and deposited in Zion's Sav-
ings Bank for safe keeping and to accumu-
late interest thereon during the time of 
waiting to commence the structure. Mean-
time our sisters of the Relief Society are
 expected to continue donating according to 
their circumstances; no change having been
made in the intention of having a place for 
women's organizations and the intent is 
still to gather sufficient means to defray 
all expenses, before the building is com-
menced. The Relief Society will take such 
steps in the matter of building as are ad-
vised by the First Presidency of the Church; 
and all who have donated money will be 
[column 2]
duly notified when the time comes to com-
mence the work. 
We who preside over the Society fully 
appreciate the spirit of liberality in which 
the sisters have contributed heretofore, and 
not one cent of their money will be made 
use of for any other purpose than the build-
ing. We sincerely hope that the members 
of the Society will continue to be interested 
in this grand enterprise and realize that 
they are not only building for themselves, 
but for their posterity, and that each one 
who has taken part in this laudable under-
taking may not only have part and portion 
therein, but have her name enrolled in the 
archives of the building when it is erected, 
that she may be known among future 
generations as one of its founders and 
patrons. 
SERICULTURE. 
	One of the industrial pursuits the Relief 
Society should encourage is the silk indus-
try, which might and ought to be made re-
munerative. Some of the sisters have been 
energetic in setting out mulberry trees and 
raising cocoons, and much more might be 
done by a union of effort in this direction. 
The Legislature of Utah  has made some 
appropriation for the encouragement of 
sericulture, and if more tangible proof 
could be given of success in si k raising by 
a larger number of citizens, and larger 
quantities of cocoons raised and silk reeled, 
no doubt our legislature would see the 
benefit of this industry to the state, and 
make provision therefor.  
There have been from time to time many 
helpful articles published on sericulture 
in this paper, and the sisters who are 
working in the Relief Society in any capa
city, even members, would get many ideas 
and much information from this little paper 
which should be better patronized so that 
its circulation might be increased; for it 
takes money to support newspapers. 
CONFERENCES. 
	We have arranged for visits to be made 
to each of the Stake conferences (fifty in num-
ber besides missions) once a year by gen-
eral officers or members of the Board; the 
expenses of these visits to be met from the 
ten cent fund; and the presidents of Stakes 
are expected to visit each ward within their 
respective Stakes at least twice a year or 
oftener if possible, and to know and keep 
in touch with each Society. If the presi-
dent is not able to visit all the places her-
self, she should call to her aid her counsel-
ors, or members of her Board at her dis-
cretion as circumstances require, or as she 
deems proper. 
We are aware there are some remote 
places in some of the Stakes that are diffi-
cult and even dangerous to reach except in 
company with the brethren, but ordinarily
the visits can be made semi-annually. It 
is also expected that the president or one of 
her counselors will attend the General Con-
ferences of the Relief Society held in April 
and October in Salt Lake City, if either of 
these cannot come, then the secretary or 
treasurer or an authorized representative.
	It is desirable that the sisters of the Re-
lief Society observe the Word of Wisdom 
given as a commandment to the Saints and 
set an example worthy of imitation to the 
youth of Zion and to all the world; they 
should also pay their tithes and offerings 
and keep the Sabbath day holy, and in-

[column 3]
fluence those around them both by precept 
and example to do the same. 
DEPARTMENTS 
	The article relating to Nurses' classes ex-
plains very clearly that matter; and the one 
which gives the method of starting Moth-
ers' meetings in connect on with the Relief 
Society. There are also other departments 
to be added. Domestic Science, including 
cooking, should be considered in a depart-
ment under the suspices of the Relief Soci-
ety, and another of importance is Hygiene,
including sanitation. Many of our sisters 
pay too little attention to these subjects, 
although they really are a vital part of our 
everyday life. Lectures or talks on these 
subjects by women versed in these matters, 
and sometimes perhaps illustrated by prac-
tical cooking or hygienic lessons. 
In the Latter-day Saints' schools estab-
lished now in almost every Stake of Zion 
there are women and girls competent to give 
lectures on Domestic Science and Hygiene, 
who would, we believe, occasionally assist 
the Society in this way; and there are also 
experienced housekeepers, who would give 
Talks suitable to young people who would 
be glad to have helpful ideas and sugges-
tions from experienced sisters. 
These may seem commonplace matters, 
but they pertain to home-making, and the 
homes of the people are the places where 
character is formed, therefore the more per-
fect the home, the better the individual and 
the better the state. 
Talks by members in your meetings on 
the character value of reading the Scrip-
tures the Book of Mormon, the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants and other Church
works—short talks upon these and kindred 
subjects will help to make the meetings of 
the Society interesting and develop the la-
tent talent among the sisters. 
We have women from many countries, 
who could now and then give Talks upon 
the customs and habits or even descriptions 
of places in their native land, and in this 
way the Society might get much valuable 
information that would be entertaining and 
instructive, as well as helpful to those who 
speak in developing power of expression 
and the use of language. 
Sometimes essays and poems from mem-
bers selected or appointed to write them 
will add variety to your meetings and aid in 
cultivating home talent. 
The sisters of the Society are and should 
be desirous of improving the mind and 
heart, the Prophet Joseph said in the Book 
of Covenants, "Get knowledge from all 
good books," (and the Relief Society should 
use none but good ones) and we are told 
"The glory of God is intelligence," but 
over and above all things else get the Spirit 
of the Lord and keep it in your midst; let 
it be your guide at all times and in all
places
	Hold your testimony meetings regularly 
without fail, and pray always for wisdom 
and be united in all your efforts, and up-
hold those who preside over you with your 
faith and prayers, and may our Heavenly 
Father bless you all abundantly. 
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, 
ANNIE T. HYDE, 
IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.
	General Presidency Relief Society. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 
General Secretary. 
CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS 
General Treasurer,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		OBITUARIES.

	ANN WOOLLEY ROBINS.

	Sister Ann Woolley Robins, wife of William
Robins, died at her home in Linden Ward, Utah
Co, Utah. November 11, 1902. She had been in
ill health for a number of years, but her final sick-
ness was of short duration.
	The deceased was born February 28, 1838, at
Warwick, England. In 1870, with her husband
she accepted Mormonism, being baptized by her
brother, Thomas Woolley, then a missionary to
his native country. The following year they
came to Utah and settled in Pleasant Grove with
a family of small children.
	Sister Robins was the mother of eight children,
of whom three daughters and two sons are left to
mourn her loss. All are married and her grand-
children number over a score.
	She was a true Latter-day Saint, quiet, earnest,
and for many years she filled faithfully the office
of a Relief Society teacher, and was a member of
the Bo[-]rd of Directors of that society at the time
of her death,
							A. S. W.
		MARY ETTA LYON.

	In loving remembrance of Sister Mary Etta, the
beloved wife of Brother Warren H. Lyon, who
died at her residence in Murray, December 22,
1902, about 7 p. m., of congestion of the lungs,
after three days of severe illness.
	She was born April 30, 1872, was the youngest
of six daughters of George and Frances Hanson,
who were pioneers of Mill Creek Ward.
	Her devotion to her parents and husband was a
great comfort to them. She was kind, loving and
affectionate to all she knew.
	Her greatest sorrow was that she was denied the 
blessing of motherhood, but her faith in God never
wavered, and she loved the principles of the Gos-
pel. Many precious promises were made to her in
the Temple of the Lord, where she loved to go,
and where she was several days previous to her
death.
	For twenty years she was an officer in the Pri-
mary Association of the 3rd district of Mill Creek
Ward.
	At her funeral services, which were held the
day before Christmas in the Murray Ward meet-
ing house, many loving tributes were paid to her
memory by the following named speakers: Bishop
U. G. Miller, of Murray, Bishop J. C. Hamilton,
of Mill Creek, Brother P. J. Sanders and Presi-
dent Frank Y. Taylor, of Granite Stake.
	Nothing more comforting could have been said
to the bereaved husband, parents, brothers, sisters
and relatives who are left to mourn her departure.
	Loving kindred and friends followed the re-
mains to the grave, there to await a reunion of
loved ones in that sweet bye and bye. The floral 
offerings were profuse and beautiful.

	“Shed not for her the bitter tear,
		Nor yield to sore regret;
	Tis but the casket that lies here,
		The gem is sparkling yet
								COM.
	FRANCELLE E. H. P. ROBSON.

	In memory of Francelle Eugenia Haskell Pome-
roy Robson, first counselor in the Relief Society
of the Maricopa Stake of Zion. She was the wife
of the late Charles I. Robson.
	It would be hard to find one so universally
loved and respected as “Aunt Cella," as she was
lovingly called by her acquaintances. Her death
was caused by a complication of diseases. She
was released from pain and suffering May 19,
1902.
	Sister Robson was a pioneer both of Utah and
Mesa, Arizona She was the daughter of Frances
M. Pomeroy and Irene Haskell, and was born at
Nauvoo, Ill., on September 24, 1845, the year
before the exodus of the Saints from that ill-fated
city. They came on to Winter Quarters, her
father being one of the 143 pioneers that broke the
road from the Missouri river to the Great Salt Lake,
where they settled and the deceased lived until
she grew to womanhood, when she married Charles
I. Robson, February 21, 1877, and settled in
Sugar House Ward. Subsequently she and her
husband started out again as pioneers and settled
at Mesa, Arizona. She passed through all the
hardships attending the building up of a new
country without a murmur and always did her
full share of the public work of the community
besides teaching school.
	She was chosen as secretary of the Mesa Ward
Relief Society at its organization, which position
she faithfully filled until called to act as secretary of
the Stake Relief Society, which position she
honorably filled until chosen as first counselor to
the Stake president of the Relief Soceity, which

[Column 2]
she held at the time of her demise. She was ever
ready and faithful to her duties wherever called.
	At the organization of the Woman Suffrage
Association she was selected as the president, and
being a natural leader took pleasure in the work.
	She was the mother of four children two of
whom survive her She was indeed a friend and
mother to the orphan and motherless. At her
death she left two little ones, whose mother (her
daughter) had died a short time before her.
	In sickness she was an untiring nurse. She was
a true and faithful friend to the Lamanites, who
would gather around herself and husband to learn
the ways of the white people.
	The funeral services over the remains of Sister
Francelle E. Robson were held in the Tabernacle,
May 21, at 2 p. m. The house was filled with
friends of the deceased. Bishop Warren H. Allen
presided and President C. R. Hakes, H. S. Phelps
and Bishop S. C. Sorensen, of Lehi, were the
speakers.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His wis-
dom called one much beloved and respected from
us, we feel to say, Thy will be done.
	Resolved, that we tender to her bereaved family
our heartfelt sympathy, and may peace rest upon
those who are called to mourn her loss, for we
realize it is her gain.
	Resolved, that this memorial be placed on rec-
ord, and a copy sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
				A. E. FULLER, 
						Secretary.
				MABEL T. HAKES,
				MELISSA HUNSAKER,
				AMELIA HORNE,
						Committee.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY MOTHERS’ CLASSES.
	The Relief Society officers of Utah Stake
in September last appointed a committee to 
prepare a course of study suitable for use in 
the several branches of the society. The 
committee submitted the work to the Stake 
officers, which was approved by them and 
is now issued in pamphlet form.
	We have had permission through the 
kindly courtesy of the president, Sister
Mary John, of Provo, to use such parts of 
this prepared plan as we desire in the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	In this connection we would say that 
the General officers desire to have published 
in the columns of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
such matter of this kind, plans of study,
etc., as may be furnished from other Stakes, 
each Stake having the same privilege, 
subject to the approval of the General 
officers of the Relief Society, to which such 
plans of study will always be submitted be-
fore appearing in print.
	The sisters will understand we are not 
giving the program in full but that which 
especially relates to child culture. The 
first exercise is on Parenthood and the
book states was prepared by Sister May 
Bell Thurman Davis, (one of the com-
mittee) she also prepared the second exer-
cise on Motherhood.
PARENTHOOD.
	“Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord. As 
arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are the 
children of youth. Happy is the man that hath
his quiver full of them; they shall not be ashamed, 
but they shall speak with the enemies in the
gate.”—The 127th Psalm.

1. Object of Existence.
	(a) Reproduction of kind is the great
	law of creation.
	(b) God said: “Be fruitful and mul-
	tiply and replenish the earth.” As a 
	a result of obedience to this command
	millions have been born.
	(c) Earthly existence is for the pur-
	pose of giving experience.

[Column 2]
	(d) Millions of spirits are yet un-
	born. (What do Latter-day Saints be-
	lieve regarding them?)
2 Means of Development:
	(a) Men and women are developed 
	by performing the duties of parent-
	hood.
	(b) In parenthood glorious oppor-
	tunities are offered for cultivating love,
	patience, justice, mercy, charity, cour-
	age, etc. (Show in what way parent-
	hood offers conditions for developing
	these qualities)
3. False Ideas of Parenthood:
	(a) A large class of people in the 
	world favor small families, and many 
	shirk parenthood altogether.
	(b) Freedom from care and love of 
	worldly pleasure are the motives with
	some.
	(c) Others argue that it is a sin to 
	bring innocent children into this wicked
	world.
	(d) Still others who desire offspring
	nevertheless limit the family to one or 
	two children.
	(e) In opposition to these false ideas
	give the Latter-day Saint idea of large 
	families.
4. Relationship of Parent and Child:
	(a) Anciently among some people, 
	the child was considered a slave.
	(b) In the light of the Gospel, the
	parent stands as provider, teacher, 
	guardian, friend.
	(c) The child belongs not alone to 
	earthly parents, but to Heavenly Par-
	ents also.
	(d) Mention some of the responsi-
	bilities of parents in training and guid-
	ing the child, so that in time it may
	return pure and unsullied to the pres-
	ence of its Heavenly Father.

MOTHERHOOD.
	There is no word in language dearer than that
of mother. She may have provided for our needs;
she may have imparted to us many beautiful truths, 
she may have taught us to pray; she may have 
shielded us from hardship; she may or may not 
have done these things—but one thing she did al-
ways, she loved us. The mother-love is the 
sweetest and purest of all human affections. It
cures the ills of childhood, soothes the pangs of 
youth, comforts and inspires man through life’s
battles. Mothers do not be afraid to lavish it up-
on your children; it makes your memory a hal-
lowed one and gives you power to influence their 
lives.

1. The Mother’s First Duty is to Her Child:
	(a) The details of housekeeping
	should not detract the mother from 
	supplying the many needs of the child.
	(b) Its physical needs should be at-
	tended to as near as may be in accord-
	ance with the most approved hygienic
	methods.
	(c) In the care and training of the
	child, the end in view is to make it 
	capable and worthy to carry on the 
	great latter-day work.
	(d) The question then is: What will
	be for the ultimate good of the child, 
	not what will be for the child’s grati-
	fication, or the mother’s present con-
	venience?
	(e) Care must be constantly given
	to the child’s moral and spiritual de-
	velopment, as well as to its physical
	welfare.


[Column 1]
2. The Mother’s Influence: The part that
	the mother takes in forming the gen-
	eral character of the child cannot be
	over estimated.
		(a) Give examples of some of the
	world’s greatest men who attribute
	their success to the influence of their
	mothers’ teachings.
		(b) Show how day after day, through
	the impressionable years of childhood,
	the mother has power to implant either
	high or low ideals, true or false ambi-
	tions, in the child.
		(c) Mothers of Israel should seek
	after truth and wisdom that they may
	better train these precious spirits given
	into their care.
3. The Mother as a World-Power: The
	desire of the true mother is to do good
	in the world. How can she best ac-
	complish this?
		(a) Can she do this best by devoting
	her entire time and energies to the
	pursuit of some particular branch of
	knowledge, or by following some char-
	itable occupation?
		(b) Or can she do more for the
	world by bearing a goodly number of
	children who are physically strong and
	intelligent, and who, as they approach
	manhood and womanhood, will be
	virtuous and God-fearing?
		(c) (It would be well here to show
	also the advantages of self-culture and
	public spirit)
		(d) The mother is a power in the
	world in so far as her children, emu-
	lating her example, do good and great
	things in the world.

				INFANCY.
			DR. EMILY G CLUFF.
	“The Baby—a tiny feather plucked from the
wing of love, and dropped into the lap of mother-
hood.”
	Some wise educator has said that the training of
the child should begin with its’ parents and ances-
tors, that is to say, years before its birth. This
may to some extent be true. All parents should,
however, be impressed with the profound fact that
the first three years of a child’s life is of as much
importance as any after period of a like duration.
Its experience, and consequently its education,
begin with the breath of life in the world.

1. The Care of the Skin: The care of the
	skin is important to the health and
	comfort of the baby.
		(a) Rub with oil after the daily bath.
	(Show why.)
		(b) Give your experience in the use
	of olive oil in cases of rash and chaf-
	ing. Why is oil preferable to powder
	in the early weeks of infancy?
		(c) Show that oil serves the purpose
	of nourishing the body as well as of
	soothing the skin.
		(d) After the bath rub the skin till
it glows. Why?
2. Food and How it Should be Given:
		(a) Regularity in nursing is an im-
	portant matter.

[Column 2]
		(b) Begin with nursing the baby
	once in two hours during the day and
	gradually increase the interval to four
	hours at six months.
		(c) Mention the best methods of
	artificial feeding; that is, of giving
	food other than the mother’s milk.
3. Allow the Baby to Sleep Alone in a bed
	artificially warmed.
		(a) Give several ways of warming
	an infants bed, and of keeping it warm.
		(b) Teach the baby to go to sleep
	without rocking. How does rocking
	injure the baby’s brain?
		(c) Speak of the advantages of well
	ventilated rooms; of well sunned rooms.
		(2) Why should rooms be slightly
	darkened during sleeping hours?
4. Clothing and its Preparation: The cloth-
	ing should be changed every morning
	and evening; should be aired and
	sunned but not laundered
		(a) Why should the baby’s ward-
	robe not be washed every time it is
	changed?
		(b) The underclothing should be
	rinsed in boiled water. Why should
	bluing not be used for underclothing?
		(c) Feet and body should be well
	clothed according to the varying sea-
	sons.
		(d) Why should the head be kept
	bare while indoors?
5. When and How the Baby Should be
Weaned:
		(a) Should be weaned at from nine
	to twelve months. Why not earlier?
	Why not later?
		(b) Show the benefits of weaning
	gradually, both to child and mother.
		(c) Give easily digestible, nourish-
	ing food as a substitute for nursing.
		(d) Strive to avoid sickness by prop-
	er diet, and hygienic living; alleviate
	sickness by simple outward applica-
	tions, not by giving strong medicine.
	(Explain why.)
6. The Forming of Proper Habits Should
Begin Early: Keep the baby, with
	its growing body and undeveloped
	nerves, in as much repose as possible.
	Avoid crowded assemblies and undue
	excitement.
		(a) Habits may be formed in the
	first week of life. (Give examples.)
		(b) Why should the baby not nurse
	or eat in the night-time? (Feed late
	and early.)
		(c) Allow the baby to creep before
	it learns to walk. Why?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.

WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of the Semi-monthly Meeting
that was held in the 14th ward hall,
Jan. 3, 1902, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, “All hail the new born
year.” Prayer by Counselor Clara C. Can-
non. Singing, “Come, let us anew.” Min-
utes of previous meeting read and accepted


President Horne then welcomed the sis-
ters in this; the new year. Said we should
be thankful to the Lord for the blessings of
the past year. It is better not to make
resolutions for fear that we could not carry
them out; but try to live to please the Lord.
	Sisters Scabeck, Williamson, and Jacob-
son bore faithful testimonies.
	Sister Derbridge felt thankful for the
Book of Mormon, it was a pleasure and a
comfort to her to read it.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Sister Mair referred to the greatness of
the Prophet Joseph Smith, the blessings
which the Lord had given through him to
the people.
	Sister Hardy felt anxious to do all she
could to convert her relatives.
	Sister Laine, from the Brooklyn confer-
ence, felt she had been blessed since she had
joined the Church, referred to the Relief
Society in Brooklyn.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, president of the
Relief Society of Weber Stake, said she al-
ways felt comforted in hearing the testi-
monies of the sisters, referred to the trials
that the people endured in the early days
of the Church, and how we had been
blessed. “We must not think our lot is
hard for the Lord is always ready to hear
and bless us. A good and kind word is long
remembered, the time to speak kind words
is while we are living. Let us be forgiv-
ing to one another.”
	Sister Stevenson wished all a happy and
prosperous New Year, felt to praise the
Lord for all his goodness, exhorted all to
be kind and loving to our boys as they
grow up, that they may love and appreciate
their homes.
	Sister Smith felt to rejoice in being a
member of this meeting; had attended ever
since they had been organized, felt to hon-
or Sister Horne and Sister Bathsheba Smith.
	Sister Hagman and Sister Leigh bore
faithful testimonies.
	Sister Julia C. Howe wished the sisters a
Happy New Year. “If we try to keep the
commandments of God we will be blessed.
	Sister Johanna Peterson, Sister Whim,
Sister Richards bore humble testimonies.
	President Horne spoke of the miracles
that were performed in the early days; how
the crickets came and were about to destroy
their crops, but the Lord sent the sea gulls
to destroy the crickets, felt it was a miracle.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Sister E. Webb.
			AMELIA WADROP, Sec.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1903	Nos. 17-18


CONTENTS.

A Beloved Mother in Israel..............................	65
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting.......A. Wadrop	66
Miss Barton to President Roosevelt.................	66
Utah Art Exhibit...............................................	67
National Council of Women.......E. Cummings	67
History of the Relief Society............................	69
R. S. Reports.....................................................	70
In Memoriam....................................................	71
Relief Society Mothers’ Classes.......................	71
Notes and News................................................	72

EDITORIAL—Beware of Evil Influences........	68
	Hyrum Smith’s Birthday............................	68
	Sister Stevenson’s Birthday........................	68
	A Pleasant Afternoon..................................	68
	Editorial Notes............................................	69

POETRY—Sea Gulls...................Ellis R. Shipp	65
	The Continental Hall, Ella Wheeler Wilcox	67


SEA GULLS.
There’s a sweet and touching story,
	By our sire’s told long ago,
Who as exiles from their birthrights
	Sought a surcease from their woe—
From religious persecution
	In the far-off distant west;
Utah’s vales their destination.
	With undaunted faith possessed.

After miles of toilsome travel—
	Months of weariness and pain,
Here they sought to find a haven
	On this barren desert plain.
With true faith and zeal undaunted
	Filled the then unyielding land,
Here the precious seed they planted
	Guided by inspired command.

Oh the joy, when soon upspringing
	Little slender spikes of green—
Cause for true and great thanksgiving
	For ’twas food, and life there seen!
But alas, the joy was fleeting,
	Swarming locusts fill the air
On this dainty verdure feeding,
	Fruits of all their anxious care.

Then a mighty wail ascended,
	Prayers in humble faith arose
To their God, who had defended
	And protected them from foes,
When as magic o’er the mountains
	White-winged messengers of life
Came as a Supreme deliverance,
	Waging short and deadly strife

Swept away the greedy insects
	In the twinkling of an eye,
Leaving all the fields uninjured,
	Through the power of Him on high.
“’Twas a miracle, a blessing!”
	Men in wonder yet will say;
And the sea gulls ne’er transgressing,
	Still are sacred to this day.
					ELLIS R SHIPP.


[Column 1]
	A BELOVED MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
MRS. BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, PRESIDENT OF
THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN ALL THE WORLD.
	At the present time there is no woman in
the Church we think looked upon with so
much reverence as “Sister Bathsheba,” as
she is affectionately designated by her inti-
mate friends. Truly a mother in Israel to
many thousands of the Latter-day Saints,
and an example to all the hosts of women
and children in the Church of which she
has always been a devoted member from
her early girlhood.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith is president
now of the Relief Society, the largest

[Column 2]
woman’s organization in the Church, and
naturally all the sisters and all the women
of the land and everywhere are anxious to
know something of the early life of one,
who has been called to fill a position of such
prominence; for this Society, which has its
headquarters at Salt Lake City, is not only
national in its scope, but is also internation-
al, extending, as it were around the world.
	The biographical sketch given here is,
with a few variations, from the pen of her
granddaughter, Mrs. Alice S. M. Horne,
who spent much of her girlhood in her
grandmother’s home.
	Bathsheba W. Smith was the daughter
of Mark and Susannah Ogden Bigler, and
was born near Shinton, Harrison county,
Virginia, May 3, 1822. Her father was
from Pennsylvania and of Dutch descent,
he was a farmer and stockraiser by occupa-
tion, and though not a member of any
church, was known as a man of high moral
character.
	Her mother, Susannah Ogden, came from
an aristocratic and well to do family in
Maryland, she was pious and gentle, pos-
sessing all the hospitable and generous
qualities of the South, an excellent house-
keeper, and adept and artistic with her
needle. Her mother’s family had been
slaveholders, but from conscientious mo-
tives had given freedom to their slaves.
Bathsheba Bigler’s parents were edu-
cated and gave their children what school
advantages could be had in a new country.
	Harrison county was hilly, and the roads
of a primitive character, and the mode of
travel was chiefly on horseback, and Bath-
sheba was an accomplished equestrienne;
she grew up in a family of seven children,
where love and unity prevailed in the home.
	While in her fifteenth year, some Latter-
day Saints came preaching in the neighbor-
hood, and she believed what they taught to
be true.
	In answer to prayer she received an
abiding testimony that Joseph Smith was a
Prophet of the Lord; and that the Book of
Mormon was a divine record. Among
those who came preaching the new and
everlasting Gospel in Harrison county, and
who became intimately acquainted with the
Bigler family, was the young Elder, George
A Smith, a cousin of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. After completing his circuit of
travel in the vicinity, he would find a rest-
ing place at the Bigler home. Meantime
the father and mother, after carefully in-
vestigating the principles taught by the
Elders, had been baptized, as had also
Bathsheba and other members of the family.
	In this restful Southern home it is little
wonder that Elder Smith grew to admire
the tall and queenly young girl, whose
fine personality and attractive qualities of
heart and soul so impressed him as to leave
no doubt in his mind that she was the one
above all others he would choose for his
life companion; and “after teaching her the
Gospel, he taught her the old sweet story
of love.” Before leaving his field of labor
in Virginia, he received her promise to
keep his cabin in Missouri.

[Column 3]
	In the spring following Elder George A.
Smith’s departure from Virginia, Brother
and Sister Fleming, sister and brother-in-
law of Sister Bathsheba, made ready to go
to Far West, and she was very anxious to
go with them, her great desire being to
learn more of the Gospel, and to improve;
but she was to be disappointed, and she wept
over it, and after retiring for the night
weeping, she heard a voice saying plainly,
“Weep not, you shall go to Zion in the
fall,” and she believed and was comforted,
and the words came to pass.
	Soon after, her father sold his home and
moved his family to Missouri. On their
arrival they found the State preparing to
make war against the Saints The perse-
cution had already begun, and shortly after
there was a battle between the Saints and an
armed mob, in which the Apostle David W.
Patten was fatally wounded and brought to
the house where Brother Bigler’s family
were living. Bathsheba witnessed the death
of this great Apostle on the same night.
She saw the mobbers, heard their dreadful
threats and savage yells when the Prophet
Joseph and his brethren were taken into
camp. The Prophet and Patriarch and
others were taken to prison and the Saints
had to leave the State under the most pain- 
ful and trying circumstances. In the spring
following great was the joy of the Saints to
have their Prophet and his brethren restored
to them in Quincy, Illinois. In the spring of
1840, Brother Bigler and family moved to
Nauvoo, Illinois, where Bathsheba had
many opportunities of hearing the Prophet
preach and received many testimonies of
the truths which he taught, and here she
was privileged to become intimately ac- 
quainted with the Prophet and his family.
	Ten days after the return of Elder George
A. Smith from a two years’ mission to Engl-
and, July 25, 1841, the marriage of Bath-
sheba W. Bigler and George A. Smith was
solemnized, his cousin, Don Carlos Smith,
(the Prophet’s brother) performing the
ceremony.
	On the 17th of March, 1842, Mrs. Smith
attended, by special invitation, the meeting
called to organize the Relief Society and
was enrolled a member; she is now the
honored and revered president of that grand
organization that only numbered eighteen
then all told, and now has more than thirty
thousand. She is the only person living
who was present on that momentous occa-
sion.
	In July of 1842 the first son was born to
this happy couple, they named him George
Albert; two months later the father and
husband was called to fill a mission in the
Eastern States.
	In January 31, 1844, Brother and Sister
George A. Smith received their endow-
ments and were united for time and all
eternity in the holy order of celestial mar-
riage. Joseph Smith, the Prophet presided
at the ceremony. Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith is now the only person living who
received her endowments in the Prophet
Joseph’s day. Sister Smith heard the 
Prophet charge the Twelve Apostles with


[Column 1]
the duty and responsibility of the ordin-
ances of endowments and sealing for the
living and the dead. She met many times
with her husband and with President Jos-
eph Smith and others who had received
these ordinances in a room dedicated for
that purpose and prayed with them re-
peatedly. No other woman now living has
had such great opportunities of sharing in
these inestimable privileges and blessings. 
	Again, in the spring of 1844, Elder
George A. Smith was called on another
mission, and soon after he left, persecution
began in the city of Nauvoo, and on June
27th, as is well known, the martyrdom of
the beloved Prophet and Patriarch occurred,
which threw the whole city into mourning
and sorrow indescribable.
	Elder George A. Smith returned home
about the 1st of August, and on the 14th a
daughter was born to them, and they
named her Bathsbeba.
	On February 9, 1846, Brother and Sister
George A. Smith with the Apostles, their
families and many of the Saints, left the
beautiful city of Nauvoo; crossing the Miss-
issippi river in the dead of winter to seek a
resting place somewhere in the region of
the Rocky Mountains. Sister Smith in her
journal says: “It would be vain to attempt
to describe how we traveled through snow,
wind and rain; how roads had to be made,
bridges built, rafts constructed, and how
our animals had to drag on with scanty
food, and how we suffered in poverty, and
sickness, and many died of the hardships
and privation, and were buried by the
wayside, as we journeyed along; but the
Lord was with us and His power was daily
made manifest. My mother died on the 11th
of March, 1847, at Winter Quarters on the
Missouri river and in April my son John
was born. He was my last child, and
lived only a few hours.
	“We traveled over the plains to Salt
Lake with a large number of the Saints, my
husband, George A. Smith, having charge
of the company arriving in Salt Lake val-
ley in October, 1849, and all was joy and
happiness now. How delightful when we
arrived at Father John Smith’s, it seemed
to be in a comfortable room with a blazing
fire on the hearth, where we might be safe,
and sheltered from the elements!”
	Sister Bathsheba shared in the privations
and trials of those early times, living in
tents, in huts and log cabins, and enduring
many hardships, but at last a comfortable
and roomy home was built, and there she
passed many years of contentment. In this
home she was very happy with her family
Her husband was Church Historian and a
part of the building was then known as the
Historian’s office, at the present time the
entire structure is used for that purpose.
	We quote again from her journal;
	“While at Provo, at the time of the move
South, when Johnston’s army entered the
city, we procured wool and had it made
into rolls, and I spent most of the summer
in spinning by hand. In the fall Sister 
Susan, my husband’s wife, returned from
Parowan, where she had spent the summer
and together we wove the yarn into flannel,
linsey and blankets.
	“My husband had raised a quantity of
flax and Sister Susan and myself spun about
thirty pounds (a large quantity) during the
winter and spring. We bought a loom and
learned to weave, and my husband’s wife,
Lucy, who had previously had some ex-
perience of this kind, helped us. We

[Column 2]
wove our spun flax into tableclothes, tow-
els, bedticks, etc. Indeed we did all we
could to furnish our house. We made our
own carpets, spun, colored and wove cloth,
flannel, linsey and jeans, kerseys, blankets,
coverlets and shawls; we also wove fringe
and made sewing thread; we also wove
wool carpets, stair carpets, rag carpets. We
have spun and wove Dixie cotton (raised in
Southern Utah) and made cloth for dresses,
bed spreads, made candle-wicking, and in
fact all sorts of material for household use.
We knit our stockings, socks and mittens,
hoods and wraps, made netting and did our
own sewing by hand and our embroidery;
in fact we manufactured everything we pos-
sibly could. We have exhibited many
articles of our home-made goods in Terri-
torial Fairs, and they always received favor-
able notice, and attracted attention.
	“In our household affairs we have aimed
to be as self-sustaining as we well could be,
supplying ourselves with clothing, and our
homes with furnishings, and in drying
large quantities of fruit from our own or-
chards. We also kept boarders, members
of the legislature, judges, school teachers,
and often distinguished people who were
in Salt Lake temporarily, Col. Thomas L.
Kane, Major Powell, his sister and others, as
in those days there were few public hotels.
	“My husband was absent much of the
time in those early days, engaged in coloniz-
ing or in home missionary labors. When we
were getting our orchard started and my
husband was away, myself and children
generally watered it. I have been out
sometime in the middle of the night water-
ing the trees, as the water had to be
apportioned to the several lots, and when it
came our turn, whether day or night, we
must make use of it or lose our trees and
garden stuff; and as our gardens supplied
our family with vegetables it could not be
neglected.”
	During all these trials there was much
joy in life for this brave woman, as
you will see, quoting again from her jour-
nal: “I believe but few in this wide world
have been as happy as we have been, we
have no differences, our religion and our ex-
pectations were the same.”
	In writing of her husband’s wives, she
says in her journal:
	“I have great respect for my husband’s
wives, we have worked and toiled together,
have had joy in our labors, have had our
recreations and taken comfort in each
other’s society; our faith is the same, our
anticipations are the same. I love their
children dearly from the infant to the
grown up man and woman. I rejoice with
them in their prosperity, and sorrow with
them in their bereavements and trials in
life.”
		(Concluded in our next.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of the Semi-monthly Meeting
held January 31, 1903, in the 14th ward
hall, Counselor E. J Stevenson presiding. 
Singing, "Oh say what is truth." Prayer
by Sister Smith. Singing, "Oh ye moun-
tains high."
	Sister Stevenson said she had attended 
these meetings ever since they were organ-
ized. Referred to the trials that the people
experienced during the time of Johnston's
army, how President Young had watched
over the people. Thought our children
should read the history of the Church and
all good books. We are having a time of


peace. We should teach our children while 
they are young.
	Sister Martha Morris bore her testimony.
Sister Jenson and Hilton bore faithful 
testimonies. 
Sister Swift referred to the trials of long
ago, how her mother had suffered for the
Gospel’s sake and had proved faithful until
death.
	The congregation sang “We thank Thee,
O God, for a Prophet.”
	Sisters Wright, Love, Silver, Williamson
and Smith bore faithful testimonies. 
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O Jesus, the
Giver.”
	Sisters Pond and Castleton also bore
faithful testimonies.
	Sister Stevenson felt if the young sisters
would get up to speak they would be
blessed. Urged all to be careful and pru-
dent with what the Lord blessed them with.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks Sing-
ing. Benediction by Sister Lydia D.
Alder.
	AMELIA WADROP, Sec.


MISS BARTON TO PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT.

	Replying to the recent letter of the presi-
dent’s secretary, George E. Cortelyou, re-
questing that public announcement be made
that the president of the United States and
his cabinet cannot serve as a board of con-
sultation of the American Red Cross soci-
ety, Miss Clara Barton, president of that
society, has addressed an explanatory letter
to President Roosevelt.
	Referring to article 4 of the constitution
of the Red Cross Society, providing for a
board of consultation, consisting of the
president and his cabinet and certain high
officers of the army, Miss Barton points out
that this provision was fully endorsed by
President Arthur and his entire cabinet and
accepted by succeeding administrations.
	Continuing, Miss Barton writes:
	“I recite these facts to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, as an earnest that neither was usur-
pation practised nor discourtesy intended
in the late needed changes of the articles of
the constitution.
	“Thus, Mr. President, if in the continu- 
ing of your honored name and that of your
cabinet in our administration of the Red
Cross, I have committed an error so grave
as to merit a reprimand and be required to
make an open denial before the world of
the privileges I have assumed, the powers
I usurped, the disrespect shown to the
honored heads of the nation and my un- 
avoidable and deep humiliation thereat—I
shall prove my good citizenship by exact 
and willing conformity with and obedience 
to the commands by publication of your
letter and such replies as I have been able
to make, in order that no misunderstand-
ing of your relations can possibly occur.”
	The letter continues:
	“Trusting that the concessions faithfully
submitted may prove sufficient notice and
guarantee to the public disconnection which
you desire from the organization which I 
have so long had the pleasure to conduct, I
have the honor to subscribe myself, 
	“Your obedient countrywoman,
	“CLARA BARTON.”


The Montana Legislature has refused to 
submit the equal suffrage amendment to 
the voters.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE CONTINENTAL HALL.
ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.

Not since the first wave thundered,
From Homer's mighty main
Have song and war been sundered—
War is the poet's strain. 
Yet my poor Muse benighted. 
Hides her pale face affrighted. 
At thought of such refrain.

She cannot sing the story
Of man assaulting man,
She cannot vaunt the glory
Of one triumphant clan.
For through her soul goes stealing
The truth of God revealing,
War never was His plan.

And while each revolution, 
Which means "Go forth and kill”
May end an evolution
Of men and Nations, still
She knows the awful terror
Of war, is human error
And not the Maker's will.

If men were only kinder
The world would go all right,
No ignorance is blinder
Than that which seeks by might
To overcome disaster;
For love alone is Master
And love alone brings light.

So not to men who battled
Where slaughter fouled the air,
Where swords and cannon rattled 
And death shrieks of despair
Blurred victory’s shout upbringing.
My humble Muse is bringing
Fresh wreaths of song to wear.

She sings of women sitting,
In homes made dark by fear,
Of hands that paused in knitting 
To wipe away the furtive tear,
While lips were forced to smiling
And speech to hopes beguiling 
And grief was masked as cheer.

Oh, courage more than human,
To live day after day
The lonely life of woman
Afar from fields of fray,
Without war’s wild distraction,
To sit in forced inaction
And think, and weep and pray.

Oh good and great fore-mothers,
Whose courage did not fail,
Your faith became to others
Love’s magic coat of mail
Unnamed in History’s pages,
Your worth shines down the ages
In tints time cannot pale.

And though we stand as “Daughters”
Of men whom duty drove
Through massacres and slaughters 
Where death and hatred throve,
Yet our chief pride is knowing,
That in our veins is flowing
The motherhood of love.

On Breaking Ground, October 11th, 1902.


[Column 1]
UTAH ART INSTITUTE.

	The Utah Art Institute announces that
its Fifth Annual Exhibition of Paintings,
Sculptures, Silk Fabrics, Decorative Work,
Artistic Mechanism, etc., will be held at
the old Social Hall, 41 State Street, Salt 
Lake City, March 9th to April 9th, in-
clusive, 1903. Exhibits will be received
by the Institute at the Exhibition room in
Salt Lake March 2-3. 
	The following rules governing the exhi-
bition will be strictly enforced:
	1. Original works offered for this exhi-
bition which have never before been public-
ly exhibited in Salt Lake City, will be sub
mitted to the judgment of the Exhibition
Committee.
	2. A card designating the prizes that
works of art are to compete for must accom-
pany each piece so entered.
	3. Paintings will be placed according to

[Column 2]
their merit. Sculptures and other works of
art will be subject to the same classification
and location.
	4. No works of art shall be removed be-
fore the close of the exhibition.
	5. On all exhibits admitted, the Art
Institute will pay transportation to and from
all points within the State; and on accepted
works of Eastern artists, it will pay trans-
portation to and from New York and Bos-
ton.
	6. All works in oil color, water color or
other medium must be acceptably framed.
	The prizes to be awarded are as follows:
	1. open to resident and non-resident
artists:
	A bronze medal of honor will be given
for the best work of art in the exhibition.
This medal may be withheld if in the opin-
ion of the awarding committee no work ex-
hibited is of sufficient merit.
	2. Open to resident artists:
	$50.00 for the best water color.
	$30.00 first prize; $20 00 second prize,
for the best and most artistic design, con-
sisting of floor plans and perspective sketch
in color or India ink, for a country church
to cost $4000.00
	Mrs Solomon Seigel offers $10.00 for the
best design for silk fabric.
	Honorable mention will be made for the
second best oil painting and water color.
	Honorable mention will also be made for
the best illustration, decorative design, sofa
cover, and clay modeling.
	Works of art receiving any of the above
cash prizes become part of the Alice Art
Collection.

	OFFICERS.
	
	Mary Teasdale, president, 314 First St ;
W. E Ware, vice-president, 62 Hooper
Building; Mrs. Edna W. Sloan, secretary;
Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, treasurer; George
Henry Taggart, H. L. A. Culmer.

	EXHIBITION COMMITTEE.

	Edwin Evans Chairman, George Henry
Taggart, Mrs Alice Merrill Horne.

	LECTURESHIP COMMITTEE.

	Edwin Evans, Harry Stuttard, Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne.

	ALICE ART COLLECTION.

	Lewis S. Hills, Mrs. Julia E. Rawlins,
Mrs Emma J. McVicker.


[Column 1]
[-]N[-]TEA[---]TIONAL COUN[-]L OF WOMEN.
		Mrs. Emily Cummings.
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF DENMARK.

	How one longs for the gift of tongues, or
for a universal language, when so interest-
ing a pamphlet comes to one as the Dansk
Kvinderaad” for 1901-1902. However one
can only gather glimpses of interesting and
business like reports presented by these
societies and by the officers of the Inter-
national Council, with extracts from the
constitution of the same. The members
of the Press Committee will have received
already the account of many important
changes lately made in the Factory Act of
that country, the efforts that have been
made lately to secure the municipal fran
chise for women, and the account of a peti-
tion sent by the Danish Council to the
Minister of Justice containing suggestions

[Column 2]
and wishes which he was asked to consider
in framing a bill concerning ill-treated and
criminal children.

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF GREAT BRITAIN.
	The annual conference of this council
will be held in Edinburg. The program
shows the names of their very large com-
mittee, on which there are twenty-four
vice presidents, and about twenty other
members. This council has between thirty
and forty branches Among the subjects to
be discussed will be “University Education
for Women, its Effects on Social and In-
tellectual Life,” “The Present Position
of Woman’s Suffrage,” “Public House
Trusts,” “Wage-Earning Children,” “The
Outlook of Women at Home and in the
Colonies,” “The Permanent Care of the
Feeble-Minded,” “The Relation of Amuse-
ments to Life” “To Health,” “To Educa-
tion,” “Popular Amusements for Working
Girls.” Papers on rescue work among
women and children, papers on organiza-
tion and committee work.

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF HOLLAND.
	Our Society of National Women’s Labor
has done a fine thing in organizing a way
of pensioning working women by making
possible an insurance whereby the premium
may be augmented or may be diminished,
or indeed stopped in times of need, while
whatever was paid continues to keep its
value. It is expected that this will prove
an immense value to women workers, do-
mestic servants, teachers, shop girls, etc,
if only they may be made to feel the im-
portance of insuring themselves very early
in life. The Dutch branch of the “Societe
Internationale des amis de la jeune fille,”
has this winter undertaken to imitate the
“venvre de la gare” as it is already in act-
ivity in Germany and in Switzerland
At the different railways and steamboats
cards are placed to direct young girls travel-
ing alone to the different “Homes” in our
towns. At the same time some ladies
undertake to meet them on the arrival of the
great expresses from Germany and France.
In Amsterdam the work at one of the
stations is done by Roman Catholic ladies,
and at the other by Protestant ladies, who
acting in the most friendly co-operation,
direct the girls to whatever addresses they
want, according to the faith they profess.
It is a great thing also that the munici-
pality of Amsterdam, wishing to increase
the supervision in its public schools decided
to create the post of inspector of the same
and it was immediately resolved that one of
the four persons named for this most hon-
orable and well-salaried post should be a
woman. The same municipality also granted
the necessary funds for a great school especi-
ally designed for the training of women 
servants.


California clubwomen are working for the
establishment of a children’s court. In San
Francisco representatives of the State Feder-
ation have been going twice a week for the
past three months to one of the four princi-
pal police courts and taking notes of the
number of children brought before the
magistrates, their cases being heard among
those of old and hardened criminals. It is
expected that the report of this committee
will go far toward influencing legislation in 
the children's behalf.


68	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1903


[Column One]
BEWARE OF EVIL INFLUENCES.
	Undoubtedly these are the last days, the
dispensation of the fulness of times when
all things are to be gathered into one; and
(perhaps) the greatest awakening that has
ever taken place among the children of men.
On every hand we hear of this and that new
thought, and men (and women too) are so
anxious for something uncommon, or mys-
terious, that they may easily be influenced
in the wrong direction, unless they are con-
stantly on their guard and continually
prayerful, seeking for the Spirit of God to
give them light from the fountain of all
wisdom.
	A laudable desire for knowledge is com-
mendable, but many other things are neces-
sary, humility and obedience to the truths
already made known is of greater value
than the enthusiasm that sometimes leads
one into labyrinths of error.
	The dear old ladies who study the
Bible, the Book of Mormon and the stand-
ard Church works are still able to tell our
young mothers many things for their edifi-
cation and benefit in rearing their families,
even though their own education in the
schools may have been limited, and they
may not have read all the new or old works
of the great authors with which scholarly
people may be familiar.
	We do not wish to be misunderstood, we 
are in favor of progress in the right direc-
tion; yet we can see that the tendency of 
the age is for new ideas and methods, and 
it behooves the Latter-day Saints to be ex-
ceedingly careful, not only of companion-
ship but of books introduced among the
young.
	Paul the Apostle, in his solicitude for the
Saints in his day, exhorting them said "Be-
ware lest any man spoil you through phil-
osophy and vain deceit, after the tradition
of men, after the rudiments of the world, 
and not after Christ," and one might say
the same in our day, for there are so many
books that try to tell us how we came to
be, and causes and reasons, and how old
the earth is, and all sorts of false theories,
that one needs to be well rootes and
grounded in the truths that have been re-
vealed through Joseph the Prophet not to
be led astray through such scientific and
psychological works.
	In that day there were not so many
thousands of books as at the present time,
and the choice of books must be of the 
greatest importance in the home or else-
where. In the matter of children's reading
the parents are and must necessarily be
cautious, but there are many people who
[Column 2]
need almost as much counsel and care in
this respect as the little folks, they are so
unwary and have not all had the training
of prayerful and wise mothers.
	The writer recalls at the present moment
a sermon of one of our greatest men when
speaking to the Relief Society, and giving
some simple advice to the mothers of little
children, he referred to one of his own fam-
ily as having imparted in her teachings,
such lessons of faith and spiritual strength
that the children under her care were full
of living faith.
	That all kinds of evil powers and influ-
ences are abroad in the world, and here as
elsewhere (if not to the same extent) there
is need to beware of the darkness that
covers the earth and gross darkness the 
minds of the people.
	There are many ways in which the Lat-
ter-day Saints may become weak in the 
faith and therefore it seems imperative that
activity in duties and obligations per-
taining to the Church be observed, or such
reading as will tend to the increase of faith
if one is not able to attend meetings regu-
larly.
	It will be remembered by our sisters that
some years ago our beloved Sister Zina re-
quested the Relief Society in the several 
branches in all the Stakes to read from the
Doctrine and Covenants in their testimony
meetings, beginning with the Articles on
Faith, and talk, comment upon or in some
way discuss the matter, at any rate make
themselves familiar with the subject as
given there As this has only been done
in a few instances or places (apparently)
would it not be well and helpful to adopt
the practice, and when making verbal re-
ports at conferences to give among other
things a summary of these readings?
Would it not have a tendency to inculcate
faith in those who give advice and counsel?
This is simply a suggestion as it does seem
necessary to counteract in some way the
evil influences that are sometimes too strong
to be resisted by those who have not had
experience in these things 
	The scriptures tell us that in the last 
days such strong evidences of evil power
shall be made manifest as to deceive even
the very elect, if that were possible.
	Most of the Latter-day Saints realize how
necessary it is to have faith to be healed in
times of sickness, but when faith languishes
and is hardly kept alive, how shall one have
the sublime faith required in times of seri-
ous illness or accidents? Faith keeps
alive hope in the human heart and makes
it possible to do many things otherwise
seemingly impossible.
	Evil influences that darken the mind and
lead men and women astray are more to be
dreaded than disease that can only kill the 
mortal body. Many of these influences are
insidious and one must be always watchful
and on the alert to guard against that
which creeps in unawares. The attack of 
an open foe is not so much to be feared
for then one knows how to defend one's 
rights, honor or principles, but that which
is treacherous, working in the dark, decep-
tive should be avoided no matter in what
shape it comes. The Spirit of God warns
those who are continually watchful and
prayerful and in that alone can the Latter-
day Saints trust implicitely. The exhorta-
tion of our leaders is and ever has been get
the Spirit of God and keep it in your hearts
and in your homes, but that cannot be done
except by diligence and vigilance.


HYRUM SMITH'S BIRTHDAY.

	The anniversary of the birthday of Hyrum
Smith, the martyred Patriarch of the Church,
was celebrated with appropriate exercises by
the Smith family on Monday, February 9,
1903, at the Bee Hive house. We believe
every member of the Church will be glad
that the day was thus observed. Brother
Hyrum was greatly beloved by the Saints
and his name is held in great reverence and
nearly always linked with that of his broth-
er, Joseph; the Prophet and Patriarch are
terms of expression familiar to the Saints
in all lands.
	Brother Hyrum was the father of our
present President of the Church, Joseph
F. Smith, prophet, seer and revelator, and
of the patriarch of the Church, also Patri-
arch John Smith. It is well for the youth
of Israel to know when and where Hyrum
was born, and something of the character-
istics of the man who for years occupied
the important position of patriarch of the
Church and was so greatly beloved’.
	Hyrum Smith was born at the beginning
of the nineteenth century, February 9, 1800,
at Tunbridge, Vermont. His history is so
closely interwoven with that of his brother
from the time of the Gospel being made
known to them, that one could not be writ-
ten without the other, and their brotherly
love was seemingly a part of their daily
life.
	We understand there was sort of an im-
promptu program, consisting of music,
songs, recitations and some brief remarks,
and a fine dinner served at five o’clock p.
m. A sort of informal family reunion
where love abounds and heart responds to
heart.


SISTER STEVENSON’S BIRTHDAY.

	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson entertained
the First Presidency, Patriarch and Apos-
tles, President of the Stake and Bishop of
the ward and their wives and Dr. C. F.
Wilcox and wife at her cosy home in this
city, on Tuesday, February 10, 1903.
	Sister Stevenson’s birthday was on Sun-
day the 8th, and consequently she could
not entertain on that day, Monday was the
Smith reunion at the Bee Hive, therefore
Tuesday was chosen for the entertainment.
	The lady is an admirable hostess and
quite famous for her good dinners and this
occasion was no exception to the general rule
in this respect, and the guests did ample
justice to the feast of good things prepared.
	Carnations, roses and ferns in midwinter
added greatly to the pleasure of the goodly
company and Sister Stevenson is to be con-
gratulated on the success of the happy oc-
casion.
	It is to be regretted that no one of the
family or among her friends present were
brave enough to announce to the assembled
guests that it was in honor of the hostess’
birthday, for if so she would have had
numerous congratulations, toasts and senti-
ments, which she might have added to her
treasury of happy remembrances for the
years to come. Let us hope, however, it is
not too late to wish this dear sister many
happy returns of her natal day, and may
she always be blessed with the friendship
and esteem of as great and good men and
women as were assembled under her hospi-
table roof on that auspicious occasion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT AFTERNOON.

	Mrs. Annie Dinwoodey, Mrs Joseph
Arthur Jennings and Mrs. Richard Phillips
Morris gave a Kensington on Tuesday,
February 10, 1903, at the handsome resi-
dence of Mrs. Annie Dinwoodey. The
elegant parlors and dining room were
filled with guests, some with fine needle
work, some knitting and a few whose
hands were idle but tongues busy.
	There were perhaps fifty or more ladies
and a very merry company they appeared
to be. By way of diversion sheets of paper
and pins were passed around and each lady
requested to make herself a paper hat. This
occupation provoked considerable merri-
ment and several protested against trying 
millinery, but busy fingers were soon at
work and when the hats began to be num-
erous the ladies were told to put them on.
This of course was very funny; some were
quaint and more or less becoming to pretty
faces, but some were really grotesque. 
They were of all styles—sunshades, tur-
bans, wide-brims, sun bonnets, etc. A vote
was taken for the best and the funniest hat,
and resulted in Mrs. John Sharp taking the
prize for the best and Mrs. Margaret Claw-
son the booby prize for the funniest.
	Then came the five o’clock tea on little
tables, delicious hot rolls, chocolate and
every sort of luxury, and the happy party
feasted to their heart’s content. It was cer-
tainly a very enjoyable affair.
	It is well that friends meet occasionally
in this way and catch a glimpse of one
another as they journey along through life
with its humdrum cares and everyday
duties, that so engross one’s time that social
intercourse is a positive luxury to busy peo-
ple. Mrs. Dinwoodey and her daughters,
who gave the guests this happy party, are 
entitled to the congratulations of all who
were invited.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	The secretaries must not forget to send 
in the annual reports to the General Secre-
tary, very few have been received. Branch-
es and missions in foreign countries will 
please take notice. So far the only ones re-
ceived from foreign lands are Australia and
the Sandwich Islands. Please direct to 
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Templeton Building, 
Salt Lake City, Utah. 
	It would be a pleasant recreation for 
members of the Relief Society to visit the 
Art Exhibit in the Social Hall during the 
time it is open, as many times as they can 
make it convenient; there is always some-
thing to be learned by looking at beautiful 
things, and our sisters who are desirous of 
promoting works of art and things of beau-
ty will find it helpful to visit places of this 
kind; besides it gives encouragement to 
those who are trying to improve along these 
lines. We understand the exhibit will be 
free at least three days in the week. 
	The Relief Society in all the Stakes, 
branches and missions will remember, it is 
hoped, the anniversary of the first organ-
ization of the Society on March 17, 1903, 
sixty-one years ago, and will observe it 
in such ways as are suited to their condi-
tions and circumstances. Do not forget the 
voluntary donation of ten cents to be paid 
annually. It is now four years since the 
custom was established, March 17, 1899, 
and will be the fifth time. Let us all hope


and believe it can be made a grand occa-
sion for reunion and enjoyment, bringing
the sisters into closer relations spiritually
as well as socially. Make it a historic day
for your society, reviewing its history not
exactly statistically or financially, but in a
general sense that will tend to make it an
event of historical importance in the re-
spective ward.


[Column One]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

MINUTES OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Masonic Lodge Room.

	Nauvoo, ILL., March 17, 1842.

	Minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society, as prepared by Miss Eliza
R. Snow, from the original minutes taken
at the meeting.
	A preliminary meeting was held at the
residence of Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, (re-
cently deceased) at which meeting Miss
Eliza R. Snow was present, and it was de-
cided at that time to consult President
Joseph Smith about an organization; accord-
ingly the meeting was called by his appoint-
ment
	Elder John Taylor was called to the
chair and Elder Willard Richards appointed
secretary. Meeting commenced by singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Prayer was offered by Elder John Taylor.
	It was then moved by President Joseph
Smith and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland that
a vote be taken to know if all present were
satisfied with each sister present and will-
ing to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the full privileges of the
institution about to be formed. Vote was
unanimous
	President Joseph Smith addressed the
meeting to illustrate the object of the soci-
ety; that the society might provoke the
brethren to good works in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects of
charity, etc., to assist by correcting the
morals and strengthening the virtues of the
community and save the Elders the trouble
of rebuking, etc. He proposed that the
sisters elect a presiding officer to preside
over them and let that presiding officer
choose two counselors; that he would or-
dain them and let them preside over the
society just as the Presidency preside over
the Church, and if they needed his instruc-
tions, ask him—he would give it from time
to time. “If any other officers were needed
to carry out the designs of the institution
let them be appointed and set apart. The
minutes of your meetings will be prece-
dents for you to act upon ” He then sug-
gested the propriety of electing a presidency
to continue in office during good behavior,
or so long as they should fill the office with
dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and seconded by Mrs. Sophia Packard
that Mrs. Emma Smith be chosen president;
passed unanimously. On suggestion of
President Joseph Smith the president-elect
made choice of Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland
and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney for
counselors.
	The ceremony of ordination was then
performed, when President Joseph Smith
resumed his remarks, giving instructions
how to govern themselves in their meet-
ings, what order to observe, etc., etc., and
concluded by saying, “Do not injure the
character of any one; if members of the

[column 2]
society shall conduct themselves improperly,
deal with them and keep all your doings
within your own bosoms, and hold all char-
acters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. President Emma Smith
took the chair with her counselors.
	Elder Taylor, moved, seconded by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith, that the society go into
an investigation respecting the name it
should be called. Motion carried unani-
mously.
	President Joseph Smith and Elders John
Taylor and Willard Richards favored the
name Benevolent Society, and Mrs Emma
Smith and Miss Eliza R. Snow argued in
favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice. The dis-
cussion was lengthy and interesting but
the decision of the majority was in favor of
Mrs. Cleveland’s choice, and the name se-
lected and voted upon was Female Relief
Society of Nauvoo.
	(The prefix female was many years ago
discarded by popular vote throughout the
entire organization.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was elected secretary and Mrs. Phebe M.
Wheeler assistant secretary, and Miss Elvira
A. Coules treasurer. 
	President Joseph Smith said, “I now de-
clare this society organized with president
and counselors, according to parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into this society must be free from
censure and received by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting, say-
ing he was much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo his heart rejoiced
when he saw the most distinguished char-
acters stepping forth in a cause which was
calculated to bring into exercise every vir-
tue and give scope to the benevolent feel-
ings of the female heart. He rejoiced to
see this institution organized according to
the laws of heaven; his prayer was that the
blessings of God and the peace of heaven
might rest upon the institution henceforth.
	President Joseph Smith gave a five dol-
lar gold piece to commence a Relief Soci-
ety fund, and said, “ Whatever I do here-
after for charity, I shall do through this
Society.”
	Sarah M. Kimball gave $1.00, Elizabeth
Ann Whitney 50 cents, E[-]ma Smith $1.00
 Sarah M. Cleveland 12 1/2 cents, Willard
Richards $1 00, Elder John Taylor $2 00.
	The names of the sisters present at this
meeting were: Emma Smith, Martha
Knight, Elvira A. Coules, Sarah M. Cleve-
land, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A.
Cook, Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow,
Sophia Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Sophia Robinson, Philanda Herrick, Phebe
M. Wheeler and Sophia R. Marks.
	After singing “Come let us rejoice in the
day of Salvation,” prayer was offered by
Elder Taylor and meeting ajdourned for
one week

	Sister Eliza R. Snow in her minutes
states: “The society increased so rapidly
that from the small number present at the
first meeting, at the close of the fiscal year,
March 17, 1843, the number was 1,158.
The meetings were so large that the largest
hall in the city was densely crowded and it
became necessary to adjourn to the Grove,
the usual place in the summer for holding
Sabbath meeting, which was provided with


[Column 1]
a suitable stand and a supply of seats for 
large assemblies." 
The society became so popular that even 
those of doubtful character in several in-
stances applied for admission, and to pre-
vent imposition by extending membership
to such ones inadvertently, stricter rules 
were adopted  than seemed requisite at first. 
Each one wishing to join the society was 
required to present a certificate of her good 
moral character, signed by two or more 
responsible persons. 
The meeting was opened and closed with 
singing and prayer and systematic order 
was observed throughout. In each meet-
ing reports were given by those whose duty 
it was to visit from home to home and in-
quire into the circumstances of the sick 
and destitute—donations were received and 
those subjects discussed which pertain to 
woman's duties, influence, responsibilities, 
etc, etc., whatever has a tendency to bene-
fit and elevate society at home and abroad. 
Frequently President Joseph Smith and 
Bishop N. K. Whitney and brethren of the 
Twelve met with the sisters, and through 
the inspiration of the Spirit of God imparted 
rich counsel and intelligence; instructing 
not only in duties regarding the poor but in 
all the relations of life, as wives, mothers, 
daughters, sisters, and as Saints of the 
Most High, our duties to one-another and 
our responsibilities as examples to the 
world, etc. 
	The first winter after the society was or-
ganized was exceedingly cold and severe 
Many in consequence of exposure and 
hardship in their expulsion from the State 
of Missouri, and the unhealthiness of the 
climate of Nauvoo, had been induced by 
sickness to destitution, and had it not been 
for the timely aid of the society they would 
have suffered very much, and probably some 
would have perished. 
About the last of July, 1842, when some 
of the officials of Missouri were taking 
measures to drag President Joseph Smith 
from the state of Illinois by an illegal pro-
cess, the Relief Society sent a petition to 
Thomas Carlin, Governor of Illinois, in be-
half of President Smith, claiming his pro-
tection as chief magistrate. The petition 
was signed by every member of the society 
and presented by its president, Mrs. Emma 
Smith, accompanied by Mrs. Amanda Smith 
and Miss E. R. Snow. The Governor's 
residence was in Quincy, fifty miles south 
from Nauvoo. 
The Governor received us with as much 
cordiality and politeness as His Excellency 
was master of, assuring us of his protection 
by saying that the laws and Constitution of 
our country should be his polar star in case 
of any difficulty. He manifested much
friendship * * * but whatever the result of 
presenting the petition the society had made 
a noble effort and it was compensated by 
knowing the great and good man Joseph 
Smith appreciated it." 
The city of Nauvoo was divided into 
four wards and after the society became too 
numerous to convene in one assembly it 
was decided to meet alternately in the dif-
ferent wards from week to week so as to 
give equal opportunities to all. 
President Joseph Smith donated a city 
lot to the society for the purpose of making 
homes for the homeless, and also to furnish 
work for those who were able to work and 
were out of employment. He proposed 
deeding the land to the treasurer and her 
successors in office, for the use of the soci-

[Column 2]
ety in ministering to the needy and unfortu-
nate. He also donated the frame of a house 
and made arrangements for it to be moved 
on the aforesaid lot for the commencement 
of the establishment. But this benevolent 
and judicious project, with many others 
which were designed for the amelioration 
of the condition of suffering humanity was 
blasted by the blighting hand of persecu-
tion and through which the once beautiful 
city of Nauvoo became a desolation and its 
inhabitants exiled to an unknown desert 
region. 
(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS. 
	PAROWAN.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Parowan Stake was held on Sunday in the
Summit Ward. Being cold and stormy,
but few representatives from the other
wards were present; the reports, however,
were very encouraging. Accompanying
the report from the Kanarra Ward was a
lovely letter from Sister Ford, president of
that society, in which she said the sisters
there had made during the summer seventy-
five yards of carpet for their new meeting
house, and were also buying lamps for the
same building, besides having donated
twenty dollars to assist their missionaries.
This was considered an excellent showing
for a Relief Society with a membership of
but twenty-one.
	The sisters of the Summit Ward are well
up in Relief Society and M. I. A. work and
are an example to some of the sister wards
when we consider that they are so few in
number. The Stake officers received a
warm welcome and many kind invitations
of hospitality that they were unable to ac-
cept in so short a visit
			E. CRANE WATSON.

WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference of
the Woodruff Stake, held at Randolph, Sep-
tember 14, 1902. President J. B. Muir pre
siding. Called to order by singing “Come,
come ye Saints.” Opening prayer by Pres-
sident A. McKinnon, after which was suug
“Praise ye the Lord.” Sacrament admin-
stered by Brothers William Muir and John
Spencer.
	President Sarah Tyson, of the Randolph
Ward, reported the same in good condition
and had joy in her labors.
	Sister Hatch, of the Argyle Ward, said
their society was in fair running order, its
being such a small ward was a drawback,
and it was not fully organized on account
of the death of one counselor.
	Sister Call, of the Woodruff Ward Relief
Society, said they were in good running
order and all the members were on hand to
do their part.
	President Wall, of Lyman, reported the
Relief Society there as being in a very
flourishing condition.
	President Hilton, of Rock Springs Ward,
said she was pleased to report the society in
first class running order, the sisters were
working hard and trying to do their duty.
	Sister Stevenson and Sister H. Badger,
visitors from Salt Lake City, with Stake
President J. M. Baxter and others of the
leading priesthood were present on the
stand.
	Sister Stevenson, of Salt Lake City, said,
“I realize the magnitude of the Relief Soci-
ety work. We should come together with
a feeling to serve the Lord. The Relief

[Column 2]
Society was organized by inspiration. We
should be mothers in Israel, the greatest
and grandest of all women.” Spoke of the
Sunday School, of the beautiful order
therein, of the importance of having good
teachers for our children, said the prophets
of old looked down through the vista of
time and longed to live in this day   We
all have a great and grand mission to per-
form and this Church is to regenerate the
world. The Relief Society work is self-
denying work, and our boys should be cog-
nizant of it, keep it before our husbands
and sons and help them to see the magni-
tude of the Relief Society work. Spoke
of the love and unity that should be in the
family circle, teach our daughters to be
good wives and our sons to seek a wife by
inspiration. Said the teachers were the
backbone of the Relief Society. Asked the
Lord to bless all that were connected with
Relief Society work.
	Sister Harriet T. Badger said she was one
in heart and hand with the Relief Society
and it was good to take the meetings to the
aged who could not get out to them. Spoke
of the famine that was to come and we
must take care of our wheat. Read a por-
tion of the Doctrine and Covenants. She
thought we should not find fault with one
another, bore a faithful testimony.
		(To be continued.)

ST. JOSEPH.
	Report of the Relief Society conference of
the St. Joseph Stake, which was held in
Pima, Saturday, November 22, 1902, Presi-
dent Elizabeth Layton presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises and
prayer by President William D Johnson,
the roll was called and minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted. 
	The conference was noted for its many
distinguished visitors, among whom were
Apostle Hyrum Smith, Elder J. Golden
Kimball, of the presiding quorum of Seven-
ties, Elder Alexander McRae, president of
Colorado mission, Annie T. Hyde, first
counselor in the General Board, Julia Brix-
en, of the Y. L M. I A. General Board,
and Sister Fanny Woolley, who has been
laboring as a missionary in the Colorado
mission the past five years
	President Elizabeth Layton felt encour-
aged in Relief Society work, would not
take much of the time, for she was anxious
to hear from our visitors, as we have sel-
dom been so honored. Introduced Sister
Hyde, who said Sister Bathsheba sends
her kind regards to every sister of the Stake.
Spoke of the noble qualities of Sister Smith
and the beautiful spirit she always mani
fests. The teachers of the Relief Society
are to be peace-makers, and should leave
their own troubles at home, when on duty
at least. Urged the sisters to look up the
genealogy of their ancestors, that they
might when the opportunity presents itself,
be able to do Temple work for them.
Showed the necessity of every mother keep-
ing the Word of Wisdom, and observing
the Sabbath day to keep it holy, as exam-
ple is more effective than words. Spoke of
the nurses’ class which is organized for the
benefit of the Society, and thought no girl
should consider her education complete
without a thorough course in this branch.
	Sister Brixen always had a good word
for the Society. Related some of her exper-
iences as a teacher in the ward in which she
resides in Salt Lake City. Nothing could
bring greater joy and satisfaction than
ministering to the needy.


<Column 1>	
	Elder J G Kimball was the next speak-
er-  His idea of a Relief Society was that,
its members should be angels of mercy, and.
he knew of no better way for them to be-
come such than to have trained nurses to
send among the needy sick.
	President McRae related the story of the
widow’s house burning and the old man
who was sorry twenty dollars worth, and
said our sympathy for the wives and moth-
ers of missionaries should be felt as the old
man’s was.  He had charge of the Relief
Society branches in the missionary field,
and felt a love for the Relief Society work.
Their labors should extend to all, whether
members of the Church or not.
	After singing and prayer, meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session opened by singing,
“All is well.” Prayer by Patriarch Clar-
dge. Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
	On account of time, verbal reports from
the branches of the society in the Stake
were given only. The statistical and finan-
cial reports were read by Stake Secretary
Salina Phillips, after which the meeting
was turned over to the Priesthood.
SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.

ALPINE.

	Eighth quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake held at American
Fork, January 23, 1903.
	Meeting convened at 10 a. m., President
Rebecca Standring presiding. Opened by
singing, “Once more we come before our
God.” Prayer by Stake Counselor Abel J.
Evans. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire ” Roll called and minutes
of morning session of previous conference
read and accepted. 
	President Standring greeted the sisters,
was pleased to meet them in conference.
The wards had all been visited except two
since last conference. It is a great call to
be angels to feed the poor and help the
sick. These works will prepare us for our
future, for we have come here to be per-
fected. Urged the teachers not to neglect
the sick and the aged.
	The reports from the wards were then
given; all reported in good working order,
the teachers doing their duty relieving, the
poor and caring for the sick, meetings are
held regularly twice a month with a good
attendance and an excellent spirit prevail-
ing.
	Stake Counselor James H. Clark gave a
short address. Felt to appreciate the re-
marks that had been made and the reports
given. The laying up of wheat is being
obedient to the counsel of our leaders, they
give no counsel but what is right. Sisters
could give instructions in the homes of the
people in regard to governing their children,
in housekeeping ard many things that
would be a benefit to them. There is a
wide scope for the labors of the sisters.
	Singing, “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.” Meeting adjourned until two
o’clock. Benediction by Counselor Annie
C. Hindley.
	Afternoon session. Conference continued
at 2 p. m., President Standring presiding.
Commenced by singing. Prayer by Presi-
dent James H. Clark. Singing. Minutes
of afternoon session of previous conference
read and accepted.
	President Standring addressed the meet-
ing. Admired the sisters with their heads
uncovered and their faces shining with the
Spirit of God. Was pleased to see so many
present. “We have heard from the reports

<Column 2>
that the sisters are united and increasing in
numbers and good works.” She would
have liked more to go to the nurses’ class
they who have gone are progressing in their
studies and enjoying their labors, hoped
that many would go next year. President
Joseph F. Smith had said that the Relief 
Society was responsible for the morals of
the people There is everything in the
Gospel to satisfy any reasonable person and
you have no need to go outside for enjoy-
ment. Spoke of silk culture, would like
the sisters to take hold of this industry and
let our children learn to clothe themselves
for besides the price of the cocoons they
would also have a bounty from the govern-
ment  The time may come when we shall
be shut off from the world and need to
clothe ourselves Her first duties were in
the Church of God and she loved to talk of
these things to her sisters. Asked God’s
blessing on us all.
	President A. J Evans said his purpose
in coming here was not to talk a long time,
but he had a testimony and wished to de-
vote his time to the work of the Lord. It
has been said “The hand that rocks the
cradle rules the world.” Our children are
like many grown people, when they hear
something not very good about a person,
they run to be the first to tell it, and in
many cases they rob our neighbors of that
which is more than life, their good charact-
er. We have our teachers to look after the
wayward, and it is not our individual busi-
ness. Urged the sisters to encourage their
husbands to pay their tithing, and see if
they have their tithing card. The family
that pays tithing can testify at the close of
the year that they are in much better condi-
tion and feel that they have done their
duty. If we know these things and do not
observe the teaching we receive, we are
under condemnation. Let no act of yours
be seen by your children that is not elevat-
ing. Asked a blessing on Sister Standring
and prayed for her life and health.
	Sister E. J. Roberts, Stake treasurer and
corresponding secretary, had enjoyed the
reports and the instructions, it gives us 
food for reflection until another conference.
We are surrounded with difficulties and
things that hinder us from doing our duty.
	Singing, “God’s kingdom for me.”
	Stake Aid Sina Chipman was thankful for
our leaders and loved to associate with them
The Lord is good to us and keeps us in the
line of our duty.
	Stake Aid Raura Cutler was glad to meet
the sisters from the wards. We have much
to be thankful for, the Spirit of the Lord is
here and we have had good instructions.
Let us not carry stories to the detriment of
our friends, but let us have charity for one
another.
	Bishop W. B. Smith said, “Why. do we
meet here and talk to each other ? We want
unalloyed happiness. Impress upon your
children good principles at a time when they
will not forget it. Teach them to pay tith-
ing and let them pay it themselves. Inspire
them with the importance of the adminis-
tration to the sick. Do your duty and the
Lord will bless you, we must get near to
the Lord.”
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley had rejoiced
in the testimonies that had been borne. Felt
the importance of teaching our children
the laws of life and health. It is a grand
and glorious thing, we are kept humble so
that we can lean on the Lord and do what
isq u  ired of us.

<Column 3>
.	Conference adjourned with singing
benediction by Bishop Warren B. Smith
EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT 71


IN MEMORIAM.

AUGUSTA C. GREENHALGH.

It is with deepest regret that we are called upon
to record the death of our beloved sister, Augusta
C. Greenhalgh, who died at her home in Santaquin,
Utah, Co., January 3, 1903. Sister Greenhalgh was
born in Ulexham Sweden, in 1844. baptized August
7, 1861, emigrated to Utah in 1862. married Elder
John Greenhalgh October 5. 1864. She was the
mother of eleven children, has left five sons and
four daughters and twelve grandchildren, an only
brother and numerous friends to mourn her loss.
She was a faithful teacher in the Relief Society
and had the care of the wheat belonging to the
society and was very faithful and competent in
that position. She was always ready and willing
to do whatever she was called upon to do, was
faithful to the covenants she had embraced, and
instructed her children in the principles of the
everlasting Gospel. She had lived a widow for
sixteen years, and although she was left alone
with a large family she always seemed happy and
cheerful and true a friend to the poor.

GUSTAPUA CHARLOTTA GRENSTROM LUNDHOLM.
The grim reaper death visited our Relief Society
again January 12, 1903, and took from us our
faithful and beloved sister, Gustapua Charlotta
Grenstrom Lundholm. She was born July 15,
1827, in Enkopings nar Upsala Lun, Sweden. She
was a loving wife and mother, although her two
children preceded her to the spirit world. She
was a always a lover of children.
Sister Lundholm’s life was full of good works.
She was unassuming and a lover of home. Her
absence will be felt and her testimony missed, for
she always considered a privilege to testify of our
Father’s goodness and the blessing that would fol-
low the believer.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas it has pleased, our Heavenly Father to
remove by death and take to a higher sphere our
beloved colaborers, Sister Augusta C. Greenhalgh
and Gustapua C Y. Lundholm, therefore be it
Resolved, that we strive to emulate their un-
wavering faith and their fidelity to truth and puri-
ty; their untiring energy and devotion to their re-
ligious duties and to their homes; their sympathy
and charity for the distressed and needy; their
humility and obedience to proper authority.
Resolved, that we extend our sympathy and
love to their bereaved families and friends and
pray that the comforting influence of the Holy
Spirit may rest upon them, that they may realize
that they are only gone before to enjoy the rest and
reward of a well spent life.
That a copy of these resolutions be sent to each
of the families, and one be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication and one be placed upon
our records.

ELIZABETH J. WALL,
HANNAH KIRKMAN,
ANN J. STICKNEY,
Committee.


RELIEF SOCIETY MOTHER’S CLASSES.
			CHILDHOOD.

	Childhood begins about the third year and ends
about the twelfth. The world that the child in-
habits is not just that around its mother’s knee, but
a widely extended world; it makes new and
wonderful discoveries; it forms new acquaintances
outside of the home circle; it comes in contact with
other influences, some good and some bad. As
judgment and reason are yet immature, there is
need of constant vigilance on the part of parents
during this critical period.

1. Food and Clothing: As the child emerges
	from infancy into childhood the moth- 
	er’s care increases.
		(a) Give only plain, nourishing and
	easily digested food. (Name suitable
	food.)
		(b) Why avoid the use of candies,
	pastries, meats and condiments, especi-
	ally at this age?
		(c) All appetites can be cultivated 
	and governed while young.


[Column 1]
		(d) Watch the digestion. Why?
		(e) Dress plainly and wear clothing
	loose. Why?
		(f) Explain the bad effects of wear-
	ing high heeled shoes.
		(g) Explain the benefits of going
	bare-foot in summer. 

2. Cleanliness of the Body:
		(a) What is the object in bathing?
		(b) Generally speaking, how often
	should a child be bathed? Will one
	rule serve for all?
		(c) It is important to keep the teeth
	clean and whole, because disease germs
	find entrance through cavities. Give
	other reasons.
		(d) Why should children’s teeth be
	given vigorous exercise?
		(e) Wash the mouth daily with di-
	luted listerine or other suitable disin-
	fectant.
		(f) Practice gargling, Why?

3. Proper Attention to the Growing Form:
		(a) Why is it important to insist
	that the growing child keeps a correct
	poise of head, shoulders and pelvis?
		(b) Bodily changes should be intel-
	ligently explained. Name some of the
	bodily changes of childhoood.

4. Promoting the Health:
		(a) Keep the children employed at
	home and at school. Reasonable work
	developes the brain and muscles.
		(b) Provide outdoor exercises; as,
	sufficient manual labor to make the
	child tired enough to fall asleep when
	it goes to bed. Name some suitable
	occupation for this period of childhood.


FIRST YEARS OF CHILDHOOD.
	Those mothers are few who do not understand
that the well-being of after life depends largely
upon the care a child receives during infancy and
early childhood, Nevertheless, while many real-
ize the responsibility which this fact imposes upon
motherhood, there are doubtless many well mean-
ing mothers who do not sense how much these same
years make for the child’s intellectual growth.
Colonel Parker said, “In no years of a child’s life
does it learn so much as during the first six years.”
The parents attitude towards the child can either
give zest to this growth, or can crush and limit it.
	Infancy is the period when the child acquires
consciousness of its five senses, through which it
gains a knowledge of the things of the world.


1. The Cultivation of the Five Senses:
		(a) The child puts out its little hand
	to feel whatever comes in its way, and
	usually puts it in its little mouth.
	What senses are being cultivated in this
	manner?
		(b) Bright colors attract attention.
	Why? Tell how the senses and what
	senses may be cultivated by giving the
	child a bright colored ball, with which
	to pound the floor?
		(c) Do proper toys assist in the
	child’s development?
		(d) Will the mother, who constantly

[Column 2]
	takes from the child everything it puts
	its hands on, retard its intellectual
	growth? If the child cannot be per-
	mitted to play with all things, what
	can it reasonably demand of the parent?

2. Learning to Talk: As soon as the child
	begins to talk, the mother cau give
	much aid.
		(a) She can assist it in acquiring
	words and forming sentences. How?
		(b) She can aid it in the pronunci-
	ation of words. How?
		(c) She can correct improper usage.
	How?
		(d) By reading good books the child
	is assisted in the art of expression.
	How and why?

3. Asking Questions: Every normal child
	asks questions. This impulse is heav-
	en born. It is one way in which the
	child gets knowledge.
		(a) What will be the attitude of the
	wise mother in respect to the child who
	asks questions?
		(b) The mother who ignores the
	child’s question, or scolds because the
	child asks so many questions will re-
	tard the child’s intellectual growth.
	Why?
		(c) What do you think of telling a
	child that it should be seen and not
	heard?

4. The Child’s Love for Stories: The great
	desire of the child for stories is another
	wise provision of nature, meant to as-
	sist in its mental culture.
			(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. .K THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN O[-]R NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Has returned to Salt Lake City, and
located permanently at 713 Second
St., where she will be pleased to
meet her old friends and patrons, and
will resume the practice of her pro-
fession. The Doctor will also teach
Classes in Obstetrics and Nursing.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.


THE NATIONAL CONVENTION.
	The Thirty-fifth annual Convention of
the National American Woman Suffrage
Association will be held in New Orleans,
La., March 19th to 25th, inclusive. The
meetings will be held in the Athenaeum,
and the hotel headquarters will be at the St.
Charles. Among the prominent speak-
ers will be Miss Anthony, Rev. Anna H.
Shaw, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss
Laura Clay, Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch,
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Mrs. Ida
Husted Harper. Names of other speakers
will be announced later. The Local Com-
mittee in New Orleans have planned social
and sight-seeing features which will add to
the pleasure of the gathering. Correspon-
dence solicited.
			KATE M. GORDON,
		Cor. Sec. N. A W. S. A.
2008 Am. Tract So. Bldg,, New York City.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Clubwomen of Idaho are interesting them-
selves in securing historical data and ma-
terial from pioneers who have helped to
build up the State.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony will soon place


all her books and documents relating to the
woman question in the Congressional Li-
brary, in a special alcove to be devoted to
this purpose. All the pamphlets will be
bound, a special book plate will be provided
and the collection will be catalogued separ-
ately. Miss Anthony has accumulated a
large number of valuable books, some of
them out of print, and many of them auth-
or’s presentation copies.
	Mrs. Alice M Ruble, the only woman
member of the Colorado Legislature, has
been treated with “signal courtesy” by
both sides, throughout the exciting scenes
of the last few days, which have finally re-
sulted in the re-election of Mr. Teller to the
U. S. Senate. So says the Boston Herald,
which, though opposed to equal suffrage,
admits that the fears sometimes felt lest
women might be treated with rudeness in
times of political excitement have not been
realized in this case. Mrs. Ruble is a
Democrat, and the other Democratic mem-
bers gallantly delegated to her the duty of
renominating Senator Teller, which she
did in a graceful speech. Some people
claim that the disagreement in the Colo-
rado Legislature proves that woman suffrage
has not had a civilizing influence. But it
amounted only to high words, and did not
go to the length of violence Before the
women voted, in the seventh Legislature of
Colorado, known in history as the ‘Bloody
Seventh,” one member was killed and
several wounded. U. S. Representative
Shafroth of Colorado says: “I have seen
the time when a political convention with-
out a disturbance and the drawing of weap-
ons was rare. That time is past in Colorado,
and it is due to the presence of women.
Every man now shows that civility which
makes him take off his hat and not swear,
and deport himself decently when ladies
are present. Instead of women’s going to
the polls corrupting women, it has purified
the polls.”—Ex.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1903		Nos. 19-20


CONTENTS.

A Beloved Mother in Israel.............................	73
Lectures for Mothers.......................................	75
Program for U. S. D. R. 1903, 1904................	75
History of the Relief Society...........................	77
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting.....A. Wadrop	88
Obituaries........................................................	78
Items from Mink Creek, Idaho...Nels Graham	79
R. S. Reports....................................................	79
The National Convention ...............................	80
Call for Executive Session..............................	80
Notes and News...............................................	80

EDITORIAL—R. S. Notice.............................	76
	The Seventeenth of March.......................	76
	In Memoriam...........................................	76
	R. S. Nurses Class....................................	76
	Sister Woodruff’s Party............................	77
	Beautiful at Eighty-two............................	77

POETRY—Show Me the Way.........................	
	.....................................Caroline Renfrew	73
	Scatter Sweet Flowers........Ellis R. Shipp	75
	Ashes...............................Susan Coolidge	75


SHOW ME THE WAY.
 
There’s a joy a-ripple somewhere
	And a sweet song ringing true.
There’s a blessing in Time’s keeping,
	Budding, blooming, just for you.

Somewhere in a gleaming shallop,
	Drawn by clouds of misty hue,
On through rough or balmy weather,
	Love comes sailing just for you.

Eyes of an unfathomed splendor,
	Touch to reach you through and through,
Voice of an enthralling sweetness,
	Making music just for you.

There are tasks that wait fulfillment
	Tasks no other life can do,
With a gift of strength and knowledge,
	Hiding in them just for you.

There are hours a-glow like jewels,
	Seeming heaven’s light to woo;
Freighted with the bliss of being,
	Waiting somewhere just for you.

Shirk not life’s God-given dirties,
	That each humble pathway strew;
Greatness, though unseen, is in them,
	Building heavenward just for you.
				CAROLINE RENFREW.


[Column 1]
	A BELOVED MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
			(Continued.)
MRS. BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, PRESIDENT
	OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN ALL THE
	WORLD.

	The most trying event of Sister Smith’s
life was the murder of her eldest and only
living son, George A. Smith, Jr., at the age
of eighteen years. The following account
is from his father’s journal: “November 2,
1860, my oldest son, George A. Smith, Jr.,
was murdered by Navajoe Indians, about
thirty-five miles northwest of the Moquis
villages in New Mexico, (now Arizona).
He was in company with Jacob Hamblin
and nine others, who were on a mission to
tht Moquis Indians with the design of
learning their language and making explor-
ations to find a wagon route from Washing-
ton, then our most southern settlement, to
the western settlements of New Mexico.
When about three hundred miles on their
journey they met a band of Navajoe Indi-
ans, who were on a hunt; they traded the
Navajoes some knives for blankets; my
son’s horse escaped out of the band, and he
followed after it on horseback. He met

[Column 2]
seven Navajoes three quarters of a mile
from camp who delivered to him his horse
in the most friendly manner, they also con-
versed with him in the Ute language, which
he understood. The first intimation of
hostility on their part was their simultan-
eous firing upon him, when he received
three arrows and four bullets. The aged
Navajoes remonstrated with their young
men in relation to their conduct and offered
to protect the missionary party if they
would immediately return home, to which
they agreed.
	“The Navajoe party had just received
the intelligence that Lieutenant Colonel
Ruggles of the U S. army, with a detatch-
ment of soldiers had burned their villages,
250 miles east, had massacred 250 squaws
and papooses and killed 40,000 of their
sheep. The receipt of this news by the
war party was the cause of the murder of
George A Smith, Jr.
	“After receiving so many wounds his
companions placed him on a saddled mule
and carried him eight miles when he died
in the saddle.
	“The aged Navajoes decided that his
body should be left, consequently his body
was abandoned.
	“My friends in Southern Utah sent a
party, who made a journey of 300 miles at
an expense of $1,800 and recovered the re-
mains of my son. I need not add that the
massacre of my son was a dreadful blow
upon his father and mother.” 
	Although Sister Smith lost her beloved
boy while engaged in the mission to preach
the Gospel, she has always been the first
to encourage and help those of her family
to answer to the call of duty.
	In 1871 Sister Smith made a tour with
her husband and President Brigham Young
and party to the Colorado river and up the
Rio Virgen as far as Shoensberg; and in
1872 made another tour south with her hus-
band and President Young’s party, visiting
St. George, going by way of Sanpete and
Sevier counties, traveling all the distance
on both these and other journeys by team.
In company with her husband she has
visited the settlements as far south as the
junction of the Rio Virgen with the Colo-
rado river, visited the settlements on the
Muddy, and has gone as far north as Bear
Lake and Soda Springs, Idaho.
	In 1875, February 19, Sister Smith and
husband returned from St. George, their
last trip together, and the last President
George A. Smith ever made. In their
travels they were often met by bands of
music and thousands of children bearing
banners and flags and singing songs of wel-
come.
	George A. Smith was Historian of the
Church and First Counselor to President
Brigham Young (succeeding Heber C Kim-
Kimball) and devoted his life exclusively to
the work of the Church. Sister Bathsheba
was his helpmate, sympathizer and coun-
selor, in this labor of the ministry, until after
a severe and lingering illness, September 1,
1875, he expired leaning on her faithful
heart.
	Since his death Sister Smith has contin-

[Column 3]
ued her work in the Church with the zeal
and energy that characterized her more
youthful days; much of her time has been
spent in visiting and ministering to the
sick and sorrowing and in traveling through
Utah counseling the sisters in the cause
and advancement of the Relief Society, and
in ministering in the Temples. In the
interest of the Relief Society since her hus-
band’s death she has visited Sevier, Millard,
Cache, Box Elder, Weber, Davis, Juab,
Piute, Sanpete, Wasatch and Utah Coun-
ties.
	In her happy, hopeful disposition, her
friends and companions have found inspir-
ation, and this characteristic is perhaps the
key to her success as a public woman. She
is noted for her punctuality and common
sense talks. She has filled with honor
many responsible offices in the Relief Soci-
ety and in the Church. She officiated in
the opening of the Nauvoo, Logan and
Salt Lake Temples, and for seventeen years
continuously worked with Sister Eliza R.
Snow in the Endowment House. After
the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated Sisters
Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba W.
Smith and Minnie J. Snow were set apart
to preside over the woman’s department,
which in her active old age gives her un-
bounded joy. Since Sister Zina’s death,
Sister Smith presides and has associated
with her as counselor, Sister Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith’s seventy-fifth
birthday (three quarters of a century) was
celebrated at the residence of her grand-
daughter, Mrs. D. R. Allen, on Monday,
May 3, 1897; the house was beautifully
decorated for the occasion; there were
seventy-five invited guests present, most of
them relatives of the honored lady; she
was the recipient of many floral offerings
and other gifts from dear friends. Apostle
John Henry Smith (her husband’s son)
made the address of welcome which was a
delightfully eloquent and happy speech.
and in which he paid the highest tribute of
praise to this noble mother in Israel, whose
life, he said, was an example to the daugh-
ters in Zion. A letter from President Jos-
eph F. Smith was read (as he could not be
present) in which he expressed to her the
most tender sentiments of love and admira-
tion, and of confidence in all the virtues of
her pure womanhood, and signed himself
at the close, “Your affectionate kinsman
and I trust unfailing friend.”
	After the reading of the letter, Mrs. Alice
Merrill Horne read the brief sketch of the
life of her grandmother which we have
given here, and Mrs. Clarissa Smith Wil-
liams, daughter of President George A.
Smith (and Sister Susan Smith, affec- 
tionately mentioned in these pages) gave a 
very clever synopsis of Sister Smith’s works
in women’s organizations, bringing in all
the most important items. Next was Mrs.
Bathsheba Smith Merrill’s tribute to her
mother, which we give here in full, as it so 
clearly sets forth the motherly character
and domestic virtues of the woman whose
history is so closely interwoven with the


[Column 1]
history of the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints:
			MOTHER.
	If there is one mortal feeling free from
the impurities of earthly frailty, that tells
in every breath of its celestial origin, it is a
mother’s love.
	Mother is our helper, adviser—listener
to tales of fancied wrongs and sorrow.
	Mother—’tis the first half-formed word
that falls from the babbling tongue; the
first idea that dawns upon the mind; the
first, the fondest and the most lasting tie
in which affection can bind the heart; a
mother’s love. Forever the same, unchang-
able. A pure and holy gift from heaven.
	Mother’s love soothes with sympathy.
What sweet comfort it was to feel her sym-
pathy for my near-sightedness! How pa-
tiently and tenderly she lightened my misfor-
tune; anticipating every wish, attending to
my needs, soothing every sorrow.
	She cradles us in her warm faithful
breast, and there is a healing influence in
her embrace. When at home or absent
from her side I knew her thoughts were
ever concerned in my welfare, and also the
the welfare of my children.
	Every day I appreciate more the blessing
of a fond and noble mother.
	She has been a mother not only to her
own offspring and her husband’s children,
but to her sisters’ and brothers’ children,
yea! a mother in Israel!
	And we all love, respect and reverence
her.
	She has trodden the narrow path and
now reaches the landmark, her seventy-
fifth birthday, and we feel that we cannot
do enough to show our love and apprecia-
tion of her.
	She is unsurpassed on this earth.

A mother’s love, how sweet the name;
	What is a mother’s love?
A noble, pure and tender flame,
	Enkindled from above.
		BATHSHEBA SMITH MERRILL.

	After the program there were short con-
gratulatory and appropriate speeches, one
by Sister Julina L. Smith, distinctively ten-
der, and brought tears to the eyes of most
of those present. Sister Julina is a niece
of Sister Bathsheba’s and had spent many
years of her young life in her aunt’s home.
	President Zina D. H. Young (now of
blessed memory) spoke very eloquently of
her intimate association with Sister Smith.
	Sister Emily D. P. Young, a very dear
friend of Sister Smith’s, and exceedingly
diffident about speaking, being called upon
asked that Sister Emmeline B. Wells be her
spokesman, Sister Wells responded to the
request.
	Bishop John R. Winder also spoke brief-
ly, and then Patriarch John Smith gave a
number of reminiscences of the past, allud-
ing lovingly to the patriarchal life of his
cousin, President George A. Smith, and re-
ferred to the numerous circle of relatives
and friends, who could not be present to
participate in this happy occasion. The
party joined in singing “Hard Times Come
Again no More,” and Miss Priscilla Smith,
another daughter of Sister Susan and Presi-
dent George A. Smith, gave a very pleasing
recitation, which produced considerable
merriment. The banquet served by loving
hands, we leave to the imagination of the
readers of these hastily written pages, and
will only add that the day closed happily

[Column 2]
with an evening program literary and
musical.
	On May 3, 1901, Mrs. B. W. Smith’s birth-
day was celebrated at the elegant residence
of Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, and was
given by that gracious and hospitable host-
ess and Mrs. Alice S. M. Horne.
	We republish the notice from the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT of May 15, 1901:
	The seventy-ninth birthday anniversary
of our revered and honored Mother in
Israel, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was
celebrated at the handsome residence of
Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth, in this city,
May 3, 1901.
	The beautiful parlors and library were
artistically decorated with flowers, flags and
historic pictures, the parlor and library in
sweet peas, the dining room in red and
white roses and carnations. The music
was by some of the best talent in the city,
Prof. Joseph Anderson and Prof. A. C.
Lund, and the selections were from the old
masters. It was a great addition to the
delightful entertainment.
	Sister Smith was dressed in white and
looked the veritable “Queen of hearts and
homes,” loveable, motherly and altogether
charming. Those who received with her
were Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mr. and Mrs.
P. T. Farnsworth, Mr. and Mrs. George
H. Horne, Mrs. B. S. Merrill and Mrs. D.
R. Allen. Several beautiful young women
assisted in the dining room and a few love-
ly little girls acted as ushers, among them
some of Sister Farnsworth’s daughters.
	“A Tribute to Aunt Bathsheba,” by the
hostess, Mrs. Farnsworth, was given be-
fore the program proper was rendered,
remarks by Bishop Winder and Apostle
Brigham Young; and Mrs. L. L. Greene
Richards read an original poem. Mrs.
Thomas Hull sang “The End of the Way”
in a delightfully Scotch way.
	The toastmaster was Judge W. H. King,
late representative to Congress, whose elo-
quence is proverbial, and who carried off
fresh honors in this rather difficult role.
	Prayer by Bishop O. F. Whitney, and
the first response to a toast was given by
President Lorenzo Snow, “George A. and
Aunt Bathsheba” “Our Family,” John
Henry Smith. “The Old Home,” Clarissa
Smith Williams. “Noted Virginians,”
Bishop Whitney. “The Prophet,” Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith. “Father’s First
Counselor,” Brigham Young. “When Old
Friends Meet,”(poem) by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
“Sister Bathsheba in the Relief Society,”
by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,” was given by
Sister Zina Y. Card, as her mother had re-
tired from the room. “Sister Bathsheba at
the Temple,” Mrs. A.W. McCune. “Child-
hood Reminiscences,” Mrs. Bathsheba S.
Merrill. “Grandfather and Granddaughter,”
Mrs. D. R. Allen. “Great Grandmother,”
Mary S. Horne. “Aunt Bathsheba,” Jul-
ina L. Smith. “Aunt Bathsheba in the
Ward,” Bishop Beatie. The Bishop having
left, his wife responded for him.
	The exercises were so varied by the
toastmaster’s original introduction that the
program could not possibly seem to have
any sameness. A list of the names of the
guests is too long for our little paper, but
suffice to say, it could not include all Sister
Smith’s friends and admirers, for they fill
these valleys of the mountains and extend
far away from here into other lands and
climes.
	Congratulations and good wishes were
simply showered upon the honored guest of

[Column 3]
the day, her praises were said and sung
and the banquet was in every way desir-
able, and the tables so arranged as to give
all an opportunity to see and hear. There
seemed nothing lacking in the management
of the entire affair, which owed its success
to the tact and artistic skill of the two
ladies who gave the party, Mrs. Farnsworth
and Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, to whom
all the guests feel indebted for the great
pleasure and honor of participating in doing
honor to one in every way so worthy of
our love and esteem as Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith.
	Sister Bathsheba is modest and retiring
in manner and has never sought office, but
the people have sought her. When the
Senior Retrenchment Society was organized
in 1870, and President Brigham Young
called Sister M. Isabella Horne to preside,
Sister B. W. Smith was chosen one of the
counselors in that organization, and Sis-
ter Horne and Sister Smith are now the
only two living who were appointed at that
time.
	Sister Smith was first counselor to Sister
Rachel R. Grant in the Thirteenth Ward
Relief Society for many years, until she re-
moved from the Thirteenth Ward to the
Seventeenth Ward (where she now resides)
and was very soon after elected president
of the Relief Society in that ward and held.
the office thirteen years. In December,
1877, when the Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake was organized, she was elected treas-
urer, and held the position until about a
year ago. In October, 1888, she was chosen
second counselor to Sister Zina D. H.
Young in the General Society. Although
very domestic in her tastes she has done a
vast amount of public duty, and now when
nearing eighty years of age is actively and
constantly engaged in serving the people in
the Temple where she presides as well as in
the General Relief Society of which she is
president.
	At the special conference held November
10, 1901, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was
unanimously elected President of the Re-
lief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, with Annie Taylor Hyde
first counselor and Ida Smoot Dusenberry
second counselor, Emmeline B. Wells secre-
tary and Clarissa Smith Williams treasurer.
	That she may live many years to fill the
position of the Elect Lady in this great and
grand society is the earnest wish of all who
know and appreciate her labors and her
many charming attributes and charac-
teristics.
	In concluding this brief sketch of the life
of our dearly beloved President we can truly
say she has verified the words of Solomon
in describing a perfect woman:
	“She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh
willingly with her hands.”
	“She layeth her hand to the spindle, and
her hands hold the distaff.”
	“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor;
yea she reacheth forth her hands to the
needy.”
	“She openeth her mouth with wisdom;
and in her tongue is the law of kindness.”
	“Her children rise up, and call her
blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth
her.”
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs Ida H. Harper contributes to the
March number of Pearson’s an interesting
article on “The home Life of Susan B.
Anthony.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


SCATTER SWEET FLOWERS.
	Written for my beloved friend, Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, who for seventy-five long years
has scattered the flowers of her love for the liv-
ing. May they take new life, and bud and bloom
and scatter their sweetest fragrance for evermore
in her own pathway.

Scatter the flowers in the pathway of the living,
	Give while thy friend may enjoy the perfume—
Now while warm lips may respond to the giving,
	Wait not to strew them on bier and on tomb.

Ah! recognize here the virtues of mortals,
	Appreciate now their works and their worth;
Wait not till those dear have passed through
		death’s portals,
	Love and be loved while yet of the earth.

Utter the Words thy spirit is prompting,
	Breathe gentle tones of sympathy sweet,
Soothe the sad heart that breaks with its aching.
	Guide now in love the wandering feet.

Pour in the soul the balm of believing,
	True faith in mankind and our Maker above,
Let not worldly strife thy spirit deceiving,
	Make thee forget the greatness of love.

Scatter the flowers of love for the living—
	Smiles, words and deeds through life’s fleeting
		hours.
Give for the glorious goodness of giving, 
	Scatter sweet flowers, oh! scatter sweet flowers.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


ASHES.
BY SUSAN COOLIDGE.

I saw the gardener bring and strew
	Gray ashes where blush roses grew,
The fair still roses bent them low,
	Their pink cheeks dimpled all with dew,
And seemed to view with pitying air
The dim gray atoms lying there.
	Ah, bonny rose, all fragrances
And life and hope and quick desires,
	What can you need or gain from these,
Poor ghosts of long-forgotten fires?
	The rose tree leans, the rose tree sighs,
	And wafts this answer subtly wise:
“All death, all life are mixed and blent;
Out of dead lives fresh life is sent;
	Sorrow to these is growth for me,
	And who shall question God’s decree?”

Ah, dreary life, whose gladsome spark
	No longer leaps in song and fire,
But lies in ashes gray and stark,
	Defeated hopes and dead desire,
Useless and dull and all bereft—
Take courage, this one thing is left;
	Some happier life may use thee so,
Some flower bloom fairer on its tree,
	Some sweet or tender thing may grow
To stronger life because of thee;
	Content to play a humble part,
	Give of the ashes of thy life,
And haply God, whose dear decrees
Take strength from those to give to these,
	Who draws the snow-drop from the snows,
	May from those ashes find a rose.
					—Congregationalist.


[Column 1]
	LECTURES FOR MOTHERS.
	Following is the plan of work outlined
for the Relief Society Mother’s work,
Salt Lake Stake, by a special com-
mittee appointed by the president, M. Isa-
bella Horne, and her counselors, Sister
Sarah Jenne Cannon and Sister Clara C.
Cannon. A meeting was held, the com-
mittee being present, also some others by
invitation, and suggestions of subjects were
made, after which the committee of three
met and formulated a plan and submitted it
to President Horne and her counselors,
President Bathsheba W. Smith was also
present, Sister E. B. Wells, Sister Emma
S. Woodruff, Sister Mary A. C. Lambert
and Sister Maggie C. Hull. The Lectures
were read and voted upon separately and
it was decided to have them published in
this paper, so that copies of them could be
obtained by all who desired to have them.

[Column 2]
	The idea is that the sisters will occupy
the first hour of the meeting in bearing
testimony after the opening exercises, and
afterwards sing a hymn and then the lec-
ture. The sisters will have the subject of
each lecture given out, informing all wards
in this Stake, and it would be desirable
for all those who are interested to think
over the matter and look up references
and be prepared to say something appro-
priate when the discussion is opened. A
suggestion has been made that some beauti-
ful thought, either original or quoted, be
given by some one at the close of the meet-
ing, a sentence complete in itself, that might
be remembered even if one could not carry
the lecture itself in mind.
						EDITOR. 
			LECTURE I.
	WOMAN KNOW THYSELF.
	I. Study well your own character before
undertaking the grave responsibilities of
wife and mother.
		a Disposition, physical condition,
	mental and moral tendencies.
		b Power to control and guide your-
	self.
	“Greater is he that ruleth his spirit than
he that taketh a city.”

			LECTURE II.
	THE MOTHER’S PARADISE.
	I. The hope, the anticipations, prepara-
tions. The child from infancy to school.
		a Thoughts of the mother, her faith,
	her daily life.
		b The wardrobe, the room, the
	home.
		c The little one, his growth physic-
	ally, spiritually, morally and intellect-
	aually.
	“As the twig is bent the tree is inclined

			LECTURE III.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT PARENT AND
				CHILD.
	I. A life in harmony with the Gospel is
the perfect example.
	“We believe in being honest, true, chaste,
benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to
all men.”
			—Ref. 13th Article of Faith.
5th Commandment:
	“Honor thy father and thy mother that
thy days may be long upon the land that
the Lord thy God giveth thee.”
	Study and teach.

			LECTURE IV.
THE RIGHTS OF THE CHILD IN THE HOME.

	I. Exchange of confidences.
		a Attention to proper questions.
		b Respect for the child’s feelings.
	“Too much indulgence has spoiled many
a child, too much love not one.”
	Love brought the child into the world,
and the more love we give them now, the
more we have for ourselves. Love goes
most to those who give most.

			LECTURE V.
THE TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH
CONCERNING THE REARING OF CHILDREN
	Reference. Word of Wisdom.

[Column 3]
	Doctrine and Covenants sec. 68, verse 25.
	“Seek ye out of the best books words of
wisdom, seek learning even by study and
also by faith.”
	—Ref. Doc. and Cov. sec. 109, verse 7.

				LECTURE VI.
THE SABBATH DAY—ITS SACREDNESS AND
				HOLINESS.
	Prepare your home duties as far as pos-
sible, that the Sabbath may be truly given
to rest and worship.
	Ref. 3rd Commandment.
	Doctrine and Covenants 59th section,
12th and 13th verses.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
			CARRIE S. THOMAS,
			JULIA S. WOOLLEY,
						Committee.
			M. ISABELLA HORNE,
						President.
			SARAH JENNE CANNON,
			CLARA C. CANNON
						Counselors.


PROGRAM FOR U. S. D. R. 1903, 1904.
	March 16, 1903. Reading of Declaration
of Independence, with a brief biography of
the signers, Clarissa Y. Spencer. Story
told or read relating to the topic of the day,
Isabel M. W. Sears. Reading of patriotic
poem or hymn, briefly name origin and
writer, Maria Y. Dougall.
	April 16. Origin and history of first
flag, Phebe Y. Beatie. Story told or read
relating to the topic of the day, Ella W.
Hyde. Reading of patriotic poem or hymn,
Lucy W. Smith.
	May 16. Life of Abraham Lincoln, Eliza-
beth R Wright. Story told or read relat- 
ing to the topic of the day, Clarissa S. Wil-
liams. Reading of patriotic poem or hymn,
briefly name origin and writer, Catharine
Wells.
	Saptember 18. Life of Abagail Adams,
Emily C Willey. Story told or read relat-
ing to the topic of the day, Alice S. M.
Horne. Reading of patriotic poem or hymn,
briefly name origin and writer, C. Y. Can-
non.
	October 16. Life of Benjamin Franklin,
Diana F. Rich. Story told or read relating
to the topic of the day, J. P. M. Farns-
worth. Reading of patriotic poem or hymn,
briefly name origin and writer, Mary A. H.
Cannon.
	November 16. Life of Paul Revere,
Julia F. Lund. Original story, subject
Thanksgiving day, Susa Y. Gates. Read-
ing of patriotic poem or hymn, briefly name
origin and writer, Myra Y. Rossiter.
	Dececember 16. Life of Dolly Madison,
Almira H. M. DeWolfe. Story told or
read relating to the topic of the day, Mary
E. R. Webber. Reading of patriotic
poem or hymn, briefly name origin and
writer, Claire C. Benedict.
	January 16. Social life of Thomas Jeffer-
son, Martha R. Groo. Story told or read
relating to the topic of the day, Florence
Scholes. Reading of patriotic poem or
hymn, briefly name origin and writer,
Clarissa Y. Spencer.
	February 16. Life of Mrs. John Jay,
Carol Cannon. Story told or read relating
to the topic of the day, Sarah F. Smith.
Reading of patriotic poem or hymn, briefly
name origin and writer, Emmeline B.
Wells.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1903


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, in this city, on Fri-
day, April 3, 1903,, meetings commencing
at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. It is desired
that each Stake should be represented by
its president or a counselor or an authorized
representative.
	A cordial invitation is extended to the
First Presidency, the Patriarch, Apostles,
Bishops and brethren generally to be pres-
ent and give instructions and encourage-
ment. it is hoped there will be a large
attendance of members.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
				General President.
		ANNIE T. HYDE,
		IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.
				Counselors.


THE SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.
	The day to be celebrated by the Relief
Society in all the world. The anniversary
of the organization of an institution that
has been a blessing to many thousands,
temporally and spiritually; this society has
held the women of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints together in
works of love for the amelioration of all
mankind. Its benefits cannot be estimated
and its far-reaching influence has been
potent for good in so many various direc-
tions and channels, that it has become of
world-wide celebrity. In every nook and
corner of Utah and the region round about
as well as in many states and countries, and
upon the islands of the sea, this society
does its work, plays its part in the great
life drama of the Latter-day Saints.
	It is the hope of its General officers that
the sisters will make it a day of rejoicing
and of gratitude that the Lord inspired the
Prophet Joseph to call together and instruct
the sisters how to conduct their affairs when
assembled, and cultivate those talents and
virtues that would tend to elevate them
and their offspring, and all who would
unite their interests in this society under
proper regulations that they might be
instrumental in helping the weak, the
sick and the needy, and bring all to a higher
standard of excellence, purity and right-
eousness.
	One might enumerate extensively the
advantages to be gained through being
associated in this organization, but time
and space will not permit.
	Meantime we must go on our way help-
ing to establish those principles of life and


salvation that will eventually redeem the
world and lead us back into the presence of
our Father in heaven.

	Conference will soon be here, and then
we hope and trust every Stake in Zion
will be represented and the General Presi-
dent and those associated with her will be
informed of the condition of the society in
all the surrounding country.
	For the benefit of the several Stakes the
General officers have decided that each
Stake president, with her Board and such
assistants as she wishes to call to her aid
may formulate a systematic plan of work
for young mothers, through lectures given
under the supervision of the Relief Society
presidents in all the various wards in the
respective Stake. It is also the express
wish of the President that such plan should
be sent to the General Secretary to be sub-
mitted to the General officers and Board,
and if approved, published in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT that all may have the opportun-
ity of knowing the character of the work
undertaken in each Stake of Zion. The
several plans will undoubtedly cover a
wide range of subjects to be treated upon
and will add variety to the nature of the
meetings, making them of even greater
interest, it is ardently hoped, and awaken-
ing the young mothers to the need of spirit-
ual effort in the training of the little ones
in the earliest stages of infancy and child-
hood.


IN MEMORIAM. 

	“So by scattered ruins,
	By sweet links unbound,
	By fair blossoms all unheeded,
	Tram[-]led on the ground;
	So, He brings them home to Him,
	When no cloud their joy can dim!”

	One of the saddest deaths of recent date
was that of Mrs. Clara Clawson Benedict.
A beautiful young woman happy and be-
loved, almost adored by those of her own
household, snatched away just when life
seemed most desirable. Hard indeed it
must be for the young husband, whose
plans were all for their future enjoyment in
the home; it seems like a horrible tragedy,
yet it must be borne in humility snd resig-
nation—for the Father willed it so, other-
wise it would never have been.

	“We, too, shall come to the riverside
	One by one,
	We are nearer its waters each eventide
	One by one.”

	Dear Clara with her little babe on her
breast has gone to her mother and many
loved ones who will welcome her gladly on
that golden shore where there is no more
sorrow or parting forevermore.
	Clara Clawson was born in this city,
February 26, 1877. She was the daughter
of Spencer Clawson and of Nabbie Young
Clawson. Her girlhood was a happy one
without a care until the death of her moth-
er some years ago, when she assumed the
cares of the family life at home, until her
marriage to Dr. Chauncey F. Benedict,
October 29, 1901, and even after her mar-
riage she watched over her younger sisters
and brothers with the tenderest solicitude.
She was a great favorite with all her young
friends, possessing so many lovely and at-
tractive qualities of person and of mind.
	Mrs. Benedict had a son born February
8, which lived only two days; he was
named Joseph Clawson Benedict. It was
feared at the time that the young mother


would succumb to the sorrow and disap-
pointment, but she bore up bravely and 
seemed to rally afterwards, but finally 
pneumonia set in and notwithstanding all
that faith and skill and constant care could
do, she fell asleep to wake no more on this
earth February 28, 1903, at half past three
p. m. 
	Her funeral was held at the residence of 
her father on Thursday, March 3, at 2 p.
m., President Seymour B. Young having
charge of the services. Beautiful in her
bridal dress, fair as a lily she lay in the
white casket embowered in flowers, the
gifts of loving relatives and friends.
	The music, prayers and remarks were all
of a soothing and comforting nature; and
the rooms were filled with sorrowing friends
and dear ones with breaking hearts and
spirits bowed down with grief.
	Clara Clawson Benedict was a charter
member of the State Society D. R., and
was its first secretary. The members of 
the D. R. sent a unique floral tribute repre-
senting the society badge in blue and yellow
flowers, they also had the grave lined with
flowers, a memento of the love and esteem
in which she was held by the society. A
memorial letter was sent with the floral
tribute, signed by the Regent and Corres-
ponding Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES’ CLASS.
	The Nurses’ Class organized under the
direction of the general superintendent,
Mrs. Emma Empey, with Phebe Y. Beatie,
secretary and treasurer, and Dr. Margaret
C. Roberts instructor, has been doing good
work and the ladies are making excellent
progress in their studies, according to the
statement of Dr. Roberts, who is, of course,
the best posted on the subject. It is a
great satisfaction to the general officers of
the Relief Society to know that such favor-
able advancement is being made because
the first duty of the society is to care for
the poor, the needy and unfortunate, and
in order to be equipped for this work there
is need of competent nurses, not only in
large cities, but in country places, and
almost more need in new colonies.
	Prof. J. H. Paul, of the L. D. S. Univer-
sity very kindly arranged for the Nurses’
Class of the General Relief Society to attend
the lectures on physiology taught in that
institution by Dr. Anderson, also the lec-
tures in hygiene by Mrs. Miller. This was
highly appreciated by Dr. Roberts, as it is
essential to understand these subjects in
order to be intelligent nurses.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter has also given a
few lectures as introductory to the lectures
to be given by her later, on cooking.
	The doctor says that in another month
she will have her class so far advanced that
she will have other physicians and sur-
geons lecture to them. She expresses her-
self as being delighted with the progress
the class is making. The class will close
sometime in June.
	We have not space to publish all the
names of the students, but will give the
Stakes of Zion from which they have been
sent: Alpine, Benson, Cassia, Cache,
Davis, Emery, Granite, Hyrum, Jordan,
Kanab, Malad, Willard, Oneida, Panguitch,
Sanpete, Sevier, Snowflake, Salt Lake, St.
George, St. Johns, Star Valley, Summit,
Tooele, Utah, Weber and Wayne. 
	There are eighty-seven students, repre-
senting Utah, Idaho, Arizona, Wyoming


and New Mexico, a very gratifying result
of the effort made.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SISTER WOODRUFF’S PARTY.
	On Friday, February 27, at 3 p. m., at
Woodruff Villa, on Fifth East St., a de-
lightful party was given by the officers of the
Relief Society of Granite Stake to their
president, Sister Emma Smith Woodruff, as
a testimonial of love and esteem and in
honor of her birthday anniversary.
	Sister Woodruff’s birthday is March 1st,
but this year it came on Sunday, conse-
quently could not be celebrated on that
day.
	It was a perfect surprise to the President
herself when she returned that afternoon
from her labor in the Temple to find the
house filled with guests, and a feast of good
things ready for their delectation. Counse-
lor Mary P. Young and Secretary Armeda
S. Young and Treasurer Maria B. Winder
were, we believe, the committee of arrange-
ments, with the aid of all the Relief Society
presidents and their assistants in Granite
Stake. The invited guests were, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, President M. Isabella
Horne, Counselor Annie T. Hyde, Sister
Emmeline B. Wells and Sister Margaret
Y. Taylor. The president of the Stake,
Frank Y. Taylor, was present, and occu-
pied the seat of honor at the head of the
long table, with President Emma S. Wood-
ruff at his right hand. Beautiful floral
decorations added to the enjoyment of the
feast and the delight of the happy party.
	Sister Woodruff received many appropri-
ate gifts, and congratulations were showered
upon her with many happy returns of the
day and expressions of love and friend-
ship.
	After the banquet was over her first
counselor, Sister Young, took the initiative
and called upon President Bathsheba W
Smith to speak to the sisters. Sister Smith
graciously responded in a brief speech, con-
gratulating the president and all present
and expressing her pleasure in meeting so
many of the Relief Society workers, refered
to having been present at the organization
by the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo and ex-
horted all to continue faithful.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne was next called
upon and spoke of some experiences in her
life and labors among the sisters, and her
great love for the Gospel and the work of
the society and her love for the sisters who
were laboring to do good.
	Sister E. B. Wells responded to Sister
Young’s invitation and occupied a few
minutes after which Sister Woodruff
thanked all present for the honor shown her,
spoke of her desire to do all in her power
to help forward the work in which all
present, were interested.
	Altogether the party was a pleasant and
successful entertainment socially and many
of the sisters were delighted to have the
privilege of coming into the home which had
been honored by the presence of the beloved
President Wilford Woodruff. Before leav-
ing the sisters joined in singing the favorite
hymn of President Woodruff, “God moves
in a mysterious way His wonders to per-
form.” These social gatherings are really
helps by the way along life’s toilsome
journey and strengthen the ties of love that
unite us together. Thanks to the good
sisters of Granite Stake for giving such an
afternoon’s enjoyment to those who have
many of them labored so long and faithfully
for the good of others.


BEAUTIFUL AT EIGHTY-TWO.
	Sister Rachel R. Grant reached her
eighty-second birthday anniversary on
Saturday, March 7, and it is true (doubt
it who may) she looked the picture of
health and happiness. Her several grand-
daughters gave a fine dinner in her honor to
a party of her old friends, twenty-two in
number. The tables were handsomely
decorated with carnations and ferns, and all
the delicacies of the season were served in
the most appetizing way. The young
ladies of the Grant household waited upon
their grandma and her old-time friends
graciously, and with that charming way
that gives zest to the enjoyment of even a
simple repast—this was by no means sim-
ple, on the contrary it was an elegant ban-
quet. The oldest lady present, Sister M.
Isabella Horne, pronounced the blessing
upon the dinner. The delightful afternoon
will long be remembered by those who
enjoyed the pleasure of Sister Grant’s soci-
ety: always dignified in manner and dis-
tinguished and reposeful in appearance,
years seem to have beautified her face and
her countenance beams with the light of the
calm, serene spirit within. It can truly be
said of Sister Rachel, that she has grown old
gracefully.
	Naturally the conversation of the after-
noon turned on her absent son, Apostle
Heber J. Grant, who is now in Japan open-
ing up a mission in that country, and there
were many Japanese pictures, ornaments
and some handsome presents to show the
guests. There was some music by the
young ladies, Miss Edith Grant rendered in
excellent voice the sweet song, “Past and
Future,” her sister, Mrs. Lutie Grant
Cannon playing the accompaniment.
	Sister Grant was the recipient of numer-
ous congratulations and compliments, and
some presents, souvenirs of the day,
given with loving words of endearment to
the venerable lady.
	Sister Grant has presided over the Relief
Society in the Thirteenth ward of Salt Lake
City ever since it was permanently organ-
ized, and is highly respected by all the
members of the Society of the past and the
present time, the Bishop and all who
have had charge; she has served in this
capacity under three Bishops, having been
chosen and set apart first by Bishop Edwin
D. Woolley, after his death Bishop Millen
Atwood presided over the ward and when
he died Bishop Nelson A. Empey was called
to act in that capacity, who still presides in
the ward, and who would not upon any ac-
count consent to release Sister Grant from
that position which she has filled so long
and faithfully.
	The social intercourse, exchange of greet-
ings and renewal of old acquaintances with
some incidents and reminiscences of the
past during the afternoon was very happi-
fying and the day will be hallowed in
memory by the sweet association of those
few hours.
	How sweet is true friendship and how
hallowed the spiritual association the sisters
have in this Church from time to time.

“Lulled in the countless chambers of the brain,
Our thoughts are linked by many a hidden chain,
Awake but one, and, lo! what myriads rise!
Each stamps its image as the other flies.”


Mrs. Caroline Hanks Hitchcock, of Cam-
bridge, Mass., has recently published a
little book entitled “Nancy Hanks: the
mother of Abraham Lincoln.”


HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			(Continued.)
SYNOPSIS OF THE REMARKS OF JOSEPH
	SMITH THE PROPHET TO THE RELIEF
	SOCIETY IN NAUVOO APRIL 28, 1842.

	President Joseph Smith called the atten-
tion of the meeting to the xii chapter 1st
Corinthians: “Now concerning spiritual
gifts I would not have you ignorant.” Said
that the passage in the 3rd verse which
reads, “No man can say that Jesus is the
Lord, but by the Holy Ghost,” should be
translated “No man can know that Jesus is
the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.” He
continued to read the chapter and give in-
structions respecting the different offices,
and the necessity of every individual acting
in the sphere allotted him or her, and fill-
ing the several offices to which they were
appointed.
	He spoke of delivering the keys of the
Priesthood to the Church, and said that the
faithful members of the Relief Society
should receive them in connection with their
husbands, that the Saints whose integrity
had been tried and proved faithful, might
know how to ask the Lord and receive an
answer; for according to his prayers, God
had appointed him elsewhere.
	He exhorted the sisters always to con-
centrate their faith and prayers for, and
place confidence in their husbands, whom
God had appointed for them to honor, and
in those faithful men whom God has placed
at the head of the Church to lead His peo-
ple; that we should arm and sustain them
with our prayers; for the keys of the king-
dom are about to be given to them, that
they may be able to detect everything false;
as well as to all the Elders who shall prove
their integrity in due season.
	He said if one member becames corrupt
and you know it, you must immediately put
it away, or it will either injure or destroy
the whole body. The sympathies of the
heads of the Church have induced them to
bear a long time with those who were cor-
rupt, until they are obliged to cut them
off, lest all become contaminated; you must
put down iniquity, and by your good ex-
amples stimulate the Elders to good works;
if you do right, there is no danger of your
going too fast.
	He said he did not care how fast we run
in the path of virtue; resist evil and there
is no danger; God, men and angels will not
condemn those that resist everything that
is evil, and devils cannot; as well might
the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah, as over-
throw an innocent soul that resists every-
thing which is evil.
	This is a charitable society, and accord-
ing to your nature; it is natural for females
to have feelings of charity and benevolence.
You are how placed in a situation in which
you can act according to those sympathies
which God has planted in your bosoms.
	If you live up to these principles, how
great and glorious will be your reward in
the celestial kingdom! If you live up to
your privileges, the angels cannot be re-
strained from being your associates. Fe-
males, if they are pure and innocent, can
enter into the presence of God; for what is
more pleasing to God than innocence. You
must be innocent, or you cannot come up
before God; if we would come before God
we must keep ourselves pure as He is pure.
	The devil has great power to deceive; he
will so transform things as to make one


[Column 1]
gape at those who are doing the will of
God. You need not be teasing your hus-
bands because of their deeds, but let the
weight of your innocence, kindness and
affections be felt, which is more mighty
than a millstone hung about the neck; not
war, not jangle, not contradiction or dis-
pute, but meekness, love, purity—these are
the things that should magnify you in the
eyes of all good men. A change must be
brought to light, iniquity must be purged
out from the midst of the Saints; the veil
will be rent and the blessings of heaven
will flow down—they will roll down like
the Mississippi river.
	If this society listens to the counsel of
the Almighty, through the heads of the
Church, they shall have power to command
queens in their midst.
	I now deliver it as a prophecy, if the in-
habitants of this state with the people of the
surrounding country, will turn unto the
Lord with all their hearts, ten years will
not roll around before the kings and queens
of the earth will come unto Zion and pay
their respects to the leaders of this people,
they shall come with their millions and
shall contribute of their abundance for the
relief of the poor, and the building up and
beautifying of Zion.
	After this instruction you will be re-
sponsible for your own sins; it is a desirable
honor that you should so walk before our
heavenly Father as to save yourselves.
We are all responsible to God for the
manner we improve the light given by our
Lord to enable us to save ourselves.
	He then commenced to read the xiii chap-
ter of Corinthians: “Though I speak with
the tongues of men and of angels and have
not charity, I am become as sounding brass
or as tinkling cymbal;” and said “Dont be
limited in your views in regard to your
neighbor’s virtues, but beware of self-
righteousness, and be limited in the esti-
mate of your own virtues, and not consider
yourself more righteous than others; you
must enlarge your souls towards each other
if you would do like Jesus, and carry your
fellow creatures to Abram’s bosom.” He
said he had manifested long-suffering for-
bearance and patience toward the Church,
and also to his enemies, and we must bear
with each other’s failings, as an indulgent
parent bears with the foibles of his children.
	President Smith then read the 2nd verse,
“Though I have the gift of prophecy, and
understand all mysteries and all knowledge;
and though I have all faith, so that I could
remove mountains, and have not charity, I
am nothing.” He then said, though a man
should become mighty, do great things,
overturn mountains, perform mighty works
and should then turn from his high position
and do evil, to eat and drink with the
drunken, all his former deeds will not save
him, but he would go to destruction! As
you increase in innocence and virtue, as
you increase in goodness, let your hearts
expand, let them be enlarged towards
others; you must be long suffering, and
bear with the faults and errors of man-
kind.
	How precious are the souls of men! The
female part of the community are apt to be
contracted in their views. You must not
be contracted, you must be liberal in your
feelings. Let this society teach women
how to behave towards their husbands, to
treat them with mildness and affection.
When a man is borne down with trouble,
when he is perplexsd with care and diffi-

[Column 2]
culty, if he can meet a smile instead of an
argument or a murmur—if he can meet with
mildness it will calm down his soul and
sooth his feelings; when the mind is going
to despair, it needs a solace of affection and
kindness.
	You will receive instruction through the
order of the Priesthood which God has es-
tablished, through the medium of those
appointed to lead, guide and direct the
affairs of the Church in this last dispensa-
tion, and I now turn the key in your be-
half in the name of the Lord, and this soci-
ety shall rejoice and knowledge and intelli- 
gence shall flow down from this time hence-
forth; this is the beginning of better days
to the poor and needy, who shall be made
to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your
heads.
	When you go home never give a cross or
unkind word to your husbands, but let
kindness, charity and love crown your
works henceforward; don’t envy the finery
and fleeting show of sinners, for they are
in a miserable situation, but as far as you
can, have mercy on them, for in a short
time God will destroy them, if they will
not repent and turn unto Him.
	Let your labors be mostly confined to
those around you, in the circle of your own
acquaintance, as far as knowledge is con-
cerned it may extend to all the world; but
your administrations should be confined to
the circle of your immediate acquaintances,
and more especially to the members of the
Relief Society. Those ordained to preside
over and lead you, are authorized to appoint
the different officers, as the circumstances
shall require. If any have a matter to re-
veal, let it be in your own tongue, do not
indulge too much in the gift of tongues, or
the devil will take advantage of the inno-
cent and unwary. You may speak in
tongues for your own comfort, but I lay it
down for a rule, that if anything is taught
by the gift of tongues, it is not to be re-
ceived for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting the propriety of females adminis-
tering to the sick by the prayer of faith, the
laying on of hands or the anointing with
oil, said it was according to revelation that
the sick should be nursed with herbs and
with mild food, and not by the hand of an
enemy. Who are better qualified to admin-
ister than our faithful and zealous sisters,
whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness,
sympathy and compassion? No one. Said
he was never placed in similiar circum-
stances before, and never had given the
same instruction; and closed his instruc-
tions by expressing his heartfelt satisfaction
in improving this opportunity.
	The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in
a very powerful manner, never to be for-
gotten by those present on this interesting
occasion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies Semi-monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, February 28,
1903, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills
we bless thee.” Prayer by Sister Emily E.
Squires. Singing, “O say what is truth.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ac-
cepted.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson referred to the
message to Hezekiah concerning his keep-
ing the commandments of the Lord: how
his life was prolonged through his faithful-


ness. Said parents should be careful how
[-]hey talk and act before their children, for
what we sow we shall reap. Urged all of
the young sisters to come to the Relief
Society meetings, that they might learn
from observation. The Lord is always
willing to assist us. Spoke of the faith of
the woman who touched the hem of the
Savior’s garments and was made whole.
	Sisters E. E. Squires, F. Smith, Martha
Reed, Soderburg and Brown, bore their
testimonies.
	Sister Christensen felt to ask the Lord
for His spirit to guide her. She had a very
sick boy and was told that an operation
must be performed, but felt if the sisters
would give her their faith and prayers he
could be healed without the operation.
	Sisters Kindle and Wardrop bore excel-
lent testimonies and related some interesting
incidents.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	Sisters Rachel Latham, Sarah Williams
and Davis bore faithful testimonies.
	Sisters Perry, Castleton and James felt to
trust in the Lord, we should try to comfort
one another and said many good things.
	Sister Brown and other sisters sang “How
firm a foundation.”
	Sister Silver related a circumstance of a
child having fits being healed through a
sister speaking in tongues The interpre-
tation of the tongue was that the child
should be taken to the Temple and baptlzed
and he would be healed. Sister Silver ad-
vised Sister Christensen to take her son to
the Temple and have him baptized and he
would be healed. Urged all to live their
religion and trust in consecrated oil.
	Sister Winberg bore her testimony.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing, and benediction by Sister Silver.
			AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


OBITUARIES.
		FRANCES ANN ADAMS.

	With feelings of sorrow we record the death of
our beloved sister, Frances Ann Adams, which
occurred on January 23, 1903, at her home in
Pleasant Grove, Utah Co.
	Sister Adams was born in London, England.
February 8, 1826. She was converted to the Gos-
pel in her native land and with her husband and
family started for Utah in 1853. She was bap-
tized on shipboard while crossing the sea to this
country.
	Her husband, Junius Crosland, died and was
buried on the plains, leaving her with four small
children, the youngest an infant a few days old.
	She crossed the plains with ox teams in Presi-
dent Jacob Gates company and located in Salt
Lake City. At the time of the move she came to
Pleasant Grove, where she made the acquaintance
of and married Williams H. Adams.
	Sister Adams was the mother of seven children,
fifty-seven grandchildren and fifty-three great
grandchildren, a veritable mother in Israel. She
was of a peaceable quiet disposition, very patient
and prompt in all her duties, both in her home and
for the Church. She made the sacrament bread
for the ward for twenty-five years. Was a faith-
ful teacher in the Relief Society for thirty-five
years, and was especially noted for visiting the
sick and attending to their needs, bringing peace,
joy and comfort to the afflicted; was ever ready to
assist in caring for the dead, her presence was as
an angel of peace and mercy. She cheerfully
obeyed every call and her faith in the Gospel was
unswerving to the end.
	We feel that in her death our society sustains the
loss of a faithful worker and a consistent Latter-
day Saint.
					SARAH FOUTZ, 
							President,
					AMY ROZSA,
					ROSE B. HAYES,
							Committee.
					MARTHA K. BEESLEY.
	Sketch and resolutions of respect to the memory


WOMAN'S EXPONENT 79
ing the first winter in the old fort, where her
babe, Emma S., was born, the food at that time
being very meager. During those and many
other trying circumstances, her husband was
called to go South to defend the Saints against
the Indians who were very hostile at that time.
She cheerfully submitted, caring for her young
children and praying for her husband's safe re-turn.
She was the mother of thirteen children,
seven of whom preceded her to the spirit world.
She leaves a husband, six children, forty-nin- e
grandchildren and eight great grandchildren.
resolutions of respect.
Whereas our Heavenly Father has called her
to a higher sphere, we shall miss our beloved sis-ter
and president.
Resolved, To remember her long for the good
she has accomplished while with us.
Resolved, That the members of the 6th ward Re-lief
Society of Salt Lake Stake, cherish her memory
and emulate her energies, perseverance and vir-tues
through times of trial, connected with the
work of benevolence, kindness and charity.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family in behalf of the society by
the secretaries, also one be placed on the records,
and that they be published in the Woman's
Exponent.
E. W. Condif,
Esther H. Watson,
Secretaries.
other brethren being present, and' Stake
President Jane S. Coleman presiding, prr
Singing "The happy day,"etc. Prayer
offered by Patriarch E. H. Blackburn.
Singing, "Joy to the world, "ff: Minutes of
the morning session of the previous con-ference
were read and accepted.
President Jane S. Coleman was pleased
to meet with the brethren and sisters and
wished them all a prosperous new year.
Said we are subject to strife in this life and
the Lord will be near to us if we will draw
near to Him. We should see that none of
the poor suffer. The duty of Relief Society
sisters is to care for children and kome.
Read an article on the Word of Wisdon
from the Juvenile Instructor, also spoke up-on
the Word of Wisdom, said it should be
practiced in daily life.
President's reports: Harriet Stapely,
Loa; Helen Mayfield, Lyman; Sarah G.
Meeks, Thurber; Sister Mary J. Wilson,
Teasdale. -
Counselor Sarah Forsythe was pleased
with the reports, hoped that the sisters
would improve during the coming year, and
said judgments will begin at the house of
the Lord. Do the little duties first. Spoke
on the Word of Wisdom, keeping the Sab-bath
day holy and many other subjects.
President G. S. Bastion was pleased to
meet with the sisters in conference, en-dorsed
the remarks of the sisters, said we
should teach our children to honor and re-spect
the priesthood, spoke upon the sub-ject.
Sister Anna Coleman was pleased to
meet with the sisters in conference and
hear the instructions given, they are time-ly
if we will put them into practice.
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-ing,
"Come, O Thou King of kings " Bene-diction
by Bishop Henry Morrell.
Afternoon session was called to order by
President Jane S. Coleman. Singing "Do
what is right." Prayer by Elder Heber J.
Wilson. Singing, "We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet." Minutes of the after-noon
session of previous conference were
read, also the statistical and financial
reports, the General Board and Stake
officers were unanimously sustained, and
Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe spoke upon
sericulture and other subjects.
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn was pleased
to meet in conference and bid the sisters
God speed. Said let us put into practice
what we have heard. Spoke of mothers
training their children, home making and
gave good instruction to the young people
on marriage.
Bishop Henry Morrell was pleased with
the instructions given, we should practice ,
what we her. Spoke about the recreations
of the young people.
Sister Sarah E. Eskersley bore testimony
to the truth of the Gcspel.
Sister Eliza Brinkerhoff bore testimony.
President Jane S. Coleman said we
should take the instructions home to the
different wards and practice them in our
lives; made other closing remarks.
Singing, "See the mighty angel flying."
Benediction by Heber Mulliner.
Anna Coleman, Sec.
of Sister Martha K. Beesley, who departed this
life December 23, 1902.
Deceased was the daughter of Dr. John and
Sister Jane Riggs, and was born in Provo, May
31, 1854. She was the mother of six children, four
of whom survive her, who with her husband, aged
mother and three sisters are called to mourn her
loss. She was faithful, kind and aifectionate and
was beloved by all her associates.
She was an energetic worker in the cause of
truth and was called to the office of secretary of
the Y. L. M. A. when it was first organized in
Provo under the direction of Sister Margaret
Smoot; she was also secretary of the Relief Society
from the year 1900 until her demise.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Resolved, That we recognize in her death the
loss of a bright and energetic worker and that the
officers and members of our ward emulate her
noble example.
Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children and her aged
mother and her sisters, and pray the Holy Spirit
may comfort them.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the husband and children, also to the
Woman's Exponent for publication, and be placed
upon the record of our 6th Ward Relief ilociety.
Electa Bullock,
Elizabeth II. D. Brown,
M. A. Till,
Committee.
MARY ANN SMITH.
Mrs. Mary Ann Smith, widow of the late Samuel
Smith, died at her home in Brigham City Wed-nesday,
January 21, 1903, after a short illness,
aged ninety-on- e years and seven month.
She was born June 17, 1811, at Harrow, Middle-sex,
England, was baptized a member of the
Church in 1842 by the late President Lorenzo
Snow. The following year she came with her hus-band
to America. They shared in all the trials
and hardships endured by the Saints in the early,
days of the Church. They came to Utah in 1850,
and in 1855 settled in Brigham city. Sister Smith
was a faithful wife, mother and friend, honored
and beloved by all who knew her, "Those who
knew her best loved her most." She was the moth-er
of nine children, two only surviving her, Hyrum
Smith, of Riverside, Idaho, and Mrs. Merritta
Ormsby, of Logan, Utah.
When the Relief Society was organized at Brig-ham
City, Sister Smith was selected as treasurer
and held the position for several years.
Solemn and impressive ceremonies were held in
the Tabernacle on Friday, January 23. The
Tabernacle choir rendered sweet and appropriate
music and many loving tributes were paid to her
memory by the speakers, all testifying to her faith-;ulne- ss
and kindness of heart.
"We hope to meet thee, sister dear,
Sometime, somewhere;
To know thee as we knew thee here,
Sometime, somewhere."
Susannah P. Booth,
President.
Annie J. Wixom,
Secretary.
ISABELLA WEST.,
It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from this mortal sphere our beloved president,
Isabella West, of the Sixth Ward Relief Society,
wife of Jesse West, and a pioneer resident of the
Sixth Ward and a faithful Latter-da- y Saint, who
died at her home, 322 W. Fifth South St., January
26, 1903, after a lingering illness.
Sister West was born in Derbyshire, England,
April 9, 1828, embraced the Gospel in her native
land, July 23, 1848, emigrated to America in the
fall of 1849 an(i arrived in Salt Lake City, where
she has resided continuously ever since. She
identified herself with the first Relief Society,
known as the 5th and 6th ward Relief Society; was
called to act as first counselor to President Full-mer,
March 1, 1883. After the death of President
Fullmer she was chosen and set apart by Bishop
James C. Watson as President of the Sixth Ward
Relief Society, October 5, 1892, which position she
held up to the time of her demise. Ever faithful
in the discharge of her duties, earnest in her mis-sion
of nursing and caring for young mothers in
their times of trial, ministering to them she might
indeed be termed a mother in Israel, Giving her
aid to the sick and afflicted, encouraging the sis-ters
in this benevolent work, never tiring, and al-ways
a true friend, gentle and unassuming. Hav-n- g
passed through many trials in early days, pass
ITEMS FROM MINK CREEK, IDAHO. .
It is seldom anything is heard at head-quarters
from our little settlement. The
beautiful snow is more plentiful than usual
and as a consequence the sleighing is the
very best, though, with us an exceptional
cold wave the last week or two.
The Relief Society is doing good work,
the health of the people generally is very
good. At the society meeting on February
3, the sisters gave a surprise to the presi-dent
of the society, Sister Ingrid Graham,
(it being her 64th birthday anniversary) a
token of the esteem they have for their
president. They also presented her with a
warm big coat for winter use, adapted for
the cold spell that has been here for some
time past.
After the surprise the sisters rejoiced and
sang praises to the Lord.
On the 1 2th of February a feast was ar-ranged
in the ward for the aged people, and
the widows, missionaries families and orphan
children. A fine program was rendered,
consisting of songs, music and recitations.
The Bishop bade the people welcome in
a few appropriate remarks. Some of the
older brethren and sisters expressed their
pleasure at the reception given them and
the consideration shown them in their de-clining
years. One old lady, said when the
white bow was pinned on her breast, "This
will be my last year in this probation."
After a blessing being offered a repast
was partaken of seasoned with songs, music
and general visiting together. A large
number of the people of the ward had come
together to take part in the program and to
wait upon the aged veterans, their fathers
and mothers, grandfathers and grand-mothers.
In the evening a dancing party
was given in which some of the older peo-ple
participated as in their younger days.
Nels Graham.
R. S. REPORT.
WAYNE STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held at Thurber, January 22,
1902, Counselor G. S. Bastion, Patriarch E.
H. Blackburn, Bishop Henry Morrell and
At the last State convention in Buffalo in
was decided to make Miss Anthony 's birth-day
Donation Day to secure money for
State work, and it is hoped that clubs all
over the State will carry out this plan.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTICE. 
	There will be a meeting of the General
and Stake officers of the Relief Society held
on Monday, April 6, 1903, at 4:30 p. m.,
in the asssembly hall of the Business Col-
lege, Templeton Building, Salt Lake City,
Utah.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
							President.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN O[-]R NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Obstetrics and Nursing.
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Has returned to Salt Lake City, and
located permanently at 713 Second
St., where she will be pleased to
meet her old friends and patrons, and
will resume the practice of her pro-
fession. The Doctor will also teach
Classes in Obstetrics and Nursing.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
[---] Main Street.


THE NATIONAL CONVENTION.
	The Thirty-fifth annual Convention of
the National American Woman Suffrage
Association will be held in New Orleans,
La., March 19th to 25th, inclusive. The
meetings will be held in the Athenaeum,
and the hotel headquarters will be at the St.
Charles. Among the prominent speak-
ers will be Miss Anthony, Rev. Anna H.
Shaw, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Miss
Laura Clay, Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch,
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Mrs. Ida
Husted Harper. Names of other speakers
will be announced later. The Local Com-
mittee in New Orleans have planned social
and sight-seeing features which will add to
the pleasure of the gathering. Correspon-
dence solicited.
				KATE M. GORDON,
			Cor. Sec. N. A. W. S. A.
2008 Am. Tract So. Bldg,, New York City.


CALL FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION.
	The Fourteenth Annual Executive Ses-
sion of the National Council of Women of
the United States will be held in New Or-
leans, Louisiana, on March 26 27, and 28.
	The first meeting will be held in the par-
lor of the St. Charles Hotel, and will con-
vene at 9 o,clock a. m. on Thursday, March
26th. Attendance will be limited to officers
of the National Council, and presidents of
the affiliated organizations.
	During the three days there will be held
five day Conferences, as follows:
	On the afternoon of Thursday, the 26th;
both morning and afternoon of Friday, the
27th; and on the morning of Saturday,
the 28th
	On the evening of Thursday, March 26th,
the officers of the National Council will
hold a reception in the Palm Garden of the
St. Charles Hotel.
	On the evening of Friday, March 27th, a
public meeting of the Council will be held
under the auspices of the Local Council of
Women of New Orleans, according to ar-
rangements made by this local body.
	On the afternoon of Saturday, March
28, there will be a conference of the officers
and presidents of the affiliated organiza-
tions. A detailed program of the business
meetings indicated, and of the public meet-
ings, will be published.
	Let it be remembered by all members of
the Council that its Annual Executive Ses-
sions are of the most important character;
that in comparison with them a Mass Con-
vention is of relatively small value and sig-
nificance.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Arizona House of Representatives 
has voted to grant full suffrage to women.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore presided at the 
Fortnightly of the Massachusetts W. S. A., 
held at 3 Park St., on February 17. A 
resolution of rejoicing was adopted on the 
passage by the Arizona House of Repre-
sentatives of a bill giving full suffrage to
women.
	After thirty-four years’ trial of woman’s
suffrage it has proved so satisfactory that 
both branches of the Wyoming Legislature 
have again adopted a resolution commend-
ing it to other commonwealths. The reso-
lution which came up on the 19th, states
that woman suffrage has raised the stand-
ard of candidates, made elections more 
orderly, improved the character of the 
Legislature and developed womanhood to a 
broader usfulness. 
	Mrs. Bernardi, teacher of the Govern-
ment School at Cape Prince of Wales, has 
made an important ethnological discovery. 
She found in the bluffs overlooking the 
villiage of Kinkegan, the relics of fortifica-
tions and subterranean rooms used ages 
ago by the Alaskans in resisting an in-
vasion by the natives of Siberia. 
	The suffragists are pushing the bill for 
the property rights of women which they 
have had presented to the Legislature and 
it will probably pass. It provides that the 
widow of an intestate, if there be children,
shall receive one half the real estate in fee 
simple, unless there be children by a former
wife, in which case the widow shall receive 
one-third of the real estate in fee simple. 
The same law applies to widower. 
	An appropriation of $9,000 made by the 
Illinois Legislature for a statue of Frances
E. Willard, to be placed in the Statuary 
Hall, Washington, has lapsed, and the pres-
ent Legislature has been asked to reenact 
it. The long time required by the artists 
to complete their competitive models is 
given as the cause of their failure to draw 
the appropriation. Helen F. Mears, of 
Wisconsin, the artist chosen, is now at 
work on the statue, and will have it com-
pleted before an appropriation made at this 
session of the Legislature would lapse. 
	Mrs. Roosevelt is reported to be in dan-
ger of breaking down under the too great 
strenuosity of the social life at the White 
House. Since November 1, 200 guests 
have been kept over night, 36 dinner 
parties given, 275 guests entertained at 
luncheon, 50 at breakfast; there have been 
three State dinners, six musicales, five State 
receptions and three afternoon receptions by 
Mrs Roosevelt. Besides these, she and the 
President have attended eight cabinet din-
ners, and dined with Senators Hanna and 
Lodge. Our anti-suffrage women think a 
woman is too fragile to cast a ballot, yet 
any one of them would be delighted to as-
sume the duties of a President’s wife.

[Column 2]
	Miss Susan B. Anthony attained her 83rd 
birthday on Sunday, Feb. 15. The day 
was celebrated on Saturday or Monday by 
the Political Equality Clubs throughout 
New York State, and by many in other 
parts of the country. Miss Anthony her-
self celebrated by holding a reception at her
home in Rochester, N. Y., on Monday 
afternoon, assisted by Rev. Anna H. Shaw, 
whose birthday comes on the day before
Miss Anthony’s. Miss Shaw was just back 
from New Hampshire, where she has been 
speaking in behalf of the pending suffrage 
amendment. Miss Anthony characteristic-
ally requested that the friends at her recep-
tion, instead of bringing any birthday
presents for her personally, should each 
leave some contribution, however small,
for the New Hampshire compaign fund. 
	Miss Esther Howland, of Worcester, 
Mass., invented the modern valentine in 
1849. She never marries and died about 
ten years ago. She was a graduate of 
Mount Holyoke Seminary, and her father 
had a small book store and bindery. Wish-
ing to add a new feature to the business, 
she took stiff letter paper, scalloped and 
fringed the edge, cut heart-shaped holes
in the corners, glued on colored pictures 
that came with raisins, tea, etc., put around 
the pictures borders of the lace paper that 
was used on the inside edges of fancy boxes, 
and hand-painted little verses on them. 
The valentines found a ready sale; business 
men in New York and elsewhere began to 
appear that Miss Howland had developed 
a real business.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRI L,I903 Nos. 21-22


CONTENTS.
President Joseph Smith..............................		81
A Breath from the Far North............R. S. G.		81
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting.......A. Wadrop	82
R. S. Report.....................................			82
Richest City in Europe............................		82
Raymond, Alta, Canada......Louisa M. Johnson	83
Annual Day....................Celia A. Smith			85
History of the Relief Society.....................		85
General Conference Relief Society...E. B. W.	85
Obituary..........................................			87
N. W. R. S. Report..............................			87
Notice to Those Interested in Silk Culture
	........................Utah Silk Commission		88
Granite Stake.....................Armeda S. Young		87
EDITORIAL—President Brigham Young........	84
	In Memoriam..............................			84
POETRY—Spring Again..............Emilie Sire	31
	Temple Block Missionaries...L. D. Alder	88


SPRING AGAIN.
Spring is coming, as it came
Years ago with floral flame;
On the skies the sunbeams write
Messages of pure delight,
And the yearning earth responds,
Bursting through her winter bonds.
Verdure spreads on naked fields,
Just relieved from snowy shields;
Flowers are born at every breeze;
Lambs again are on the leas;
Every tree resumes its green,
And the joyous birds convene.
Can we then remain in gloom,
When we see the world in bloom?
Shall we speak of woe or pain
When we hear the happy strain?
Oh, be glad, ye toiling men,
When the springtime comes again!
EMILIE Sire.

It isn't the thinking how grateful we are
For the kindness of friends come to bless
Our sorrow or loss
'Neath the weight of the Cross;
Its telling our gratefulness.
It isn't the music, asleep in the strings
Of the lute, that entrances the ear,
And brings to the breast
The spirit of rest;
It is only the music we hear.
It isn't the silence of hope unexpressed
That heartens and strengthens the weak
To triumph through strife
For the great things of life;
It’s the words of good cheer that we speak.
W. J. L.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT JOSEPH SMITH.
	It was Joseph Smith who organized the
first Relief Society, and gave to it full in-
structions as to the manner of procedure
and the measures to be adopted for its gov-
ernment, with full explanation regarding
the purpose and intent for which it was or-
ganized, viz: the moral and intellectual ad-
vancement of its members and care of the
sick and needy.
	He predicted for it a future which for
breadth of scope and usefulness would be
second to none as an auxiliary association in
the Church.
	Men very frequently have engaged in
benevolent enterprises, in aiding and assist-
ing the unfortunate, and in many instances
have largely contributed towards the sup-

[Column 2]
pression of want and thus endeavoring to
improve conditions otherwise appalling.
Homes have been built for the protection of
the street waif and the orphan. The penury
stricken have been relieved of their burden
through the liberality of their benefactors
and wise means procured them with which
to obtain an honest livelihood. But in no
instance has the spirit of true philanthropy
been more thoroughly exemplified than in
the life works of Joseph Smith, the great
nineteenth century prophet.
	It is evidenced in the interest which he
exercised upon questions involving human
rights and liberties to the putting asunder
of calumny and oppression. He displayed
it in his unbounded generosity toward the
unfortunate, many of whom daily partook
of his hospitality, and afterwards became
members of his household.
	This illustrious character, who was des-
tined to play so important a part in the
world's drama, had not the facilities with
which to gratify the ambitions of a youth
for greatness.
	He was poor and had to engage in manu-
al labor as a means of support. He was of
a thoughtful and studious nature, and by
his efforts and perseverance, through the
meagre means afforded him, acquired the
rudiments of an education, and in intellect
might be classed above the average boy of
like environments. He po[---]sed much
natural ability, physical and [---]tal, while
it required only a process of de[---]opment to
bring out the superior traits of mind and
soul with which he was so highly en-
dowed.
	By possessing such rare and manifold
gifts, he might in succeeding years, have
won distinction among men, had he not,
like Samuel of old, been destined for a
higher and nobler purpose.
	The momentous period of his career be-
gan with his first vision, one spring morn-
ing in the woods, when all outward things
seemed attuned to the sweet harmonies of
nature, and a universal quiet pervaded the
scene. The boy in years became greater
than the sire in experience or the sage in
wisdom.
	Then, again, four years later, the visita-
tion of that glorified being, who in life
figured so interestingly in Nephite history.
	To have thus been favored of heaven!
	The transports of joy that thrilled his
bosom in listening to the words of this
heavenly messenger cannot be told. His
soul was electrified in beholding a counten-
ance of such exquisite radiance and beauty.
He was instructed, advised, admonished
and commanded. Yes, he would do as he
was commanded, at all hazards, though
hosts innumerable might plan for his over-
throw and seek his destruction.
	Who can deny that this sort of tutelage
was of a superior kind, in fact incomparable
with that with which popes and cardinals
and high ecclesiasticals were furnished?
	This kind of wisdom obtained through
supernatural sources gave him a superiority
which was at once felt by his friends and
others with whom he held social inter-
course.

[Column 3]
	The moral atmosphere surrounding his
person was delicate, refined and heavenly.
His influence was so great that his deadli-
est enemy secretly feared him, and was
quelled to silence by the power and force of
his words. His countenance bore the stamp
of divinity, and especially was this the case
when he uttered words of prophecy and
gave revelations to the Church. It is said
that upon those occasions a glorified ex-
pression was given to it—a transparency
beyond anything natural.
	Notwiths[-]anding the wonderfully con-
trasting changes with which he had to meet,
the times apart from ecclesiastical duty
were spent in the study of languages, high-
er education, etc., and so successful was he
that in a short time he became the possessor
of a rich vocabulary, with abundant mater-
ial to convey the lofty thoughts that were
his to make known.
	In this great world of scientific research
and discovery, who has been able, or been
invested with power from the heavens to
proclaim the mighty spiritual truths and
doctrines the same as he? None except
the Master.
	He was an ardent exponent of the princi-
ples of justice and equity. He was a lover
of mankind, and was pained to see any of
his followers suffer from ruthless mobs and
mobocrats.
	His friends almost worshiped him; his
foes gave vent to the cry, "Away, away
with him!" He was forgiving, he forgave
his enemies.
	Men reviled him; he reviled not again.
	In the last sad moments of his life, his
attitude towards his persecutors and towards
all men showed the Christ in him.
	And to those who were left to witness
his innocence, and to mourn his untimely
end, were the words, "I am going like a
lamb to the slaughter," most painfully real.
	Manti, March 17, 1902.
ETTA ANDERSON.


A BREATH FROM THE FAR NORTH.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	You have perhaps heard many roarings
in the tempest of the far north, and have
felt its breath also of late, so a word from
your sister in this region will perhaps
be of interest to some of your many readers.
	The following account of the celebration
of the anniversary of the organization of
the Relief Society will show that we are
not all frozen yet, but are very much
alive.
	Tuesday, March 17, all the married peo-
ple of the ward were invited to assemble at
the large new school house recently erected,
though not yet finished, at 6 p. m., where,
under the direction of President Lucinda
Miller and her many willing aids, a grand
sight met our view. Two long tables
beautifully decorated and laden with the
bounties of earth had been prepared, and
when all were seated, one hundred in num-
ber, their happy, smiling faces spoke plain-
ly of the joy of the heart.
	When all had feasted we adjourned to the
meeting house, a short distance away, and


there sat and listened to a well prepared
program of speeches, instrumental music
and songs, which lasted about an hour,
then the time until 12 o’clock was spent in
tripping the light fantastic, and as we
watched the older brethren and sisters, who
perhaps had not danced for twenty years,
glide around in the graceful maze of the
dance, it made us all feel young again.
	When all had said good night and ex-
pressed themselves as having had a good
time, we felt to thank our Heavenly Father
and declare that the Latter-day Saints are
indeed a happy people.
	The weather was very cold last week for
March. Today the southeast chinook is
blowing gently, which indicates spring in
the hear future. The health of the peo-
ple is good in general, though some are, or
have been effected with colds, or a touch of
la grippe.
	Our town is only a little more than three 
and a half years old, and though we are, as
it were, pioneers in this land, we are happy
and contented; the rich are poor, and the
poor have an abundance.
	There are three branches of the Relief
Society in this eastern circuit of the Alberta
Stake, presided over by Sister Hannah M.
Russell, and all in good working order and
are obeying the counsel to store up grain;
as this is a good grain country they will be
able to gather a great amount.
	Our home emigration is something to be
proud of, even when they come singly, but
we feel that the blessings are being doubled
when they come in pairs, as was the case on
March 19, when Sister Kate Holman gave
birth to twin girls. Mother and babes are
doing well, and the happy father votes
Canada a good country.
	With best wishes for the success of your
paper, I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
						R. S. G.
	March 20, 1903.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall, Saturday, April
11, 1903, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presid-
ing. The meeting opened with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer and reading
of minutes.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson addressed the
congregation. Advised the young sisters
to join the Relief Society, referred to the
many good sentiments that are in the
hymns that are sung from time to time,
thought we should take care of the taber-
nacles the Lord has given us and how im-
portant it is for our boys and girls to be
taught to take care of themselves. She
felt to sympathize with the missionaries
while they are out traveling. We should
all be missionaries, it is our duty to come
to meeting. Referred to the good spirit we
always had in this hall.
	Sister Francis referred to a sister having
a vision concerning a certain man she would
meet and that she would afterwards marry,
and how happy she had been, it was a tes-
timony to her of the Gospel.
	Sisters Stevenson, Shaw and Silver bore
faithful testimonies of the goodness of the
Lord to them and their families.
	Sisters McKean and Jenson bore faithful
testimonies and related many instances of
healing.
	Sister Rachel Latham referred to her
young life, the ideas of the people concern-


ing the Savior’s death and how they ob-
serve it in England. Referred to the differ-
ence of the Gospel taught us, how she
loved the Gospel and desired to do good.
	Sister Lavinia Morris felt we would all be
blessed according to our faith. Referred to
a child that had been scalded so badly that
it could not live, but through faith and the
administration of the Elders it was healed.
	Sisters Taylor and Bidd thanked the
Lord for the blessing of the Gospel to
them; always desired to do right.
	Sister Druexberg felt to thank the Lord
for His goodness to her and her family.
They had been healed in sickness by the
administration of the Elders.
	Sister Wright referred to the hymns that
were sung when she was young, how strict
her parents were in relation to religion, how
she was converted to the Mormon Church
by hearing Brother Orson Pratt preach.
	Sister Durant bore a strong testimony of
her child being healed.
	Sister Stevenson rejoiced to hear the sis-
ters testify that they knew that the Prophet
Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. Said
we should read the Bible more, and not
talk of things that are not good. This is a
retrenchment meeting, retrench from all
things that are not good.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Amelia Wardrop.
			AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Quarterly conference of the Nebo Stake
Relief Society held in Benjamin meeting
house, March [-]3, 1903, commencing at ten
a. m, Lillyus C. Page presiding
	After singing, prayer was offered by
Brother Hyrum Hand. Singing. Roll
called, seventy-nine officers and members
present.
	President Lillyus C. Page felt that we
would have a good time together and was
also pleased to see so many of the brethren.
	Sister Hattie Wride was sustained as cor-
responding secretary.
	Sister Annie Bingham, president of the
Benjamin society, welcomed all to join them
in conference. Reported that society as do-
ing a good work; have 127 bushels of wheat
in good condition; own granary.
	Nine wards, were represented, each presi-
dent reporting her society in good condi-
tion; each laboring to take care of the needy
and visit the sick, storing up wheat and
helping to roll on the great work.
	Sister Jane Worsencroft encouraged the
sisters to send their children to Religion
Class and Primary.
	Recitation, Susie Stewart.
	Bishop McKell, of Spanish Fork, was
pleased with the exercises, there is a great
work for women, he had nothing but bless-
ings for the sisters.
	President Annie Bingham asked all to
stay and have lunch. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Walter Sendlow.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. Conference
reconvened by singing, and prayer by Bish-
op Taylor, of Spring Lake. Singing. Min-
utes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. Minutes of first organization read
by Stake Treasurer Martha S. Kapple.
	Stake Counselor Eliza J. Dixon said if
the mothers would live their religion and
teach it to their children we would have a
better community. Spoke of the necessity 

[Column 2]
of having mothers’ work in connection with
the Relief Society.
	Song, Nora Mitchel.
	Sister Marian Hand was very anxious
for the mothers’ work, thought it would
be a great help to the society.
	Sister C. J. Tanner, president of Payson
2nd ward, felt there was a great responsi-
bility resting upon the mothers, they should
learn how to train the young minds of their
children. Reported that society in good
condition; have five hundred bushels of
wheat in good condition; own granary.
	Stake Counselor Susan Pickering spoke
of the blessing of the Lord upon His daugh-
ters and related the story of Samuel. Re-
ported Payson 1st ward society: 117 names
enrolled; 700 bushels of wheat; own meet-
ing house.
	Recitation, Miss Josephine Shepherd.
	Bishop Hansen, of Benjamin, said he
was interested in Relief Society work, could
see the necessity of training the children in
the principles of the Gospel, mothers have
a great influence over the child.
	Bishop Orgill, of Lake Shore, said he
rejoiced in the Gospel of the Lord. Spoke
of the young people starting in life aright,
should marry in the right way. Spoke
against profanity and smoking.
	Bishop Taylor, of Lake Shore, spoke of
children honoring their parents.
	President Page reminded the presidents
of annual day, wished all to start mothers’
work as soon as possible. Union meet-
ings to be held the 2nd Saturday in April.
Next conference to be held in Payson.
	Conference adjourned. Singing. Bene-
diction by James Hawkins.
		HATTIE WRIDE, Cor. Sec.


RICHEST CITY IN EUROPE.
BASEL, IN SWITZERLAND, HAS THAT DIS-
			TINCTION.
	The richest city in Europe, and prob-
ably in the world, is Basel—or Basle, as it
used to appear on the school geography—
in Switzerland.
	The returns published by the tax admin-
istrator show the assessed valuation is more
than $175,000,000, and the total population
124,000, an average of more than $1,400 for
each man, woman and child in the city.
The assessed valuation of Basel equals the
total revenue of the 88,000 houses and.
buildings in Paris.
	Of the 124,000 inhabitants of Basel there
are 180 who are rated as millionaries. In-
asmuch as the amount is reckoned in francs,
this means that the wealth of these 180 per-
sons exceeds $200,000. There are 175, who
have between $100,000 and $200,000; 170
who have $100,000, and 895 who have from
$20,000 to $100,000.
	Within fifteen years the wealth of Basel
has increased $60,000,000 and the popula-
tion has almost doubled which is a most re-
markable showing for a town that is 1,500
years old. It has always been famous. It
was the important stronghold of Helvetia in
the 11th century, and Erasmus died there 
in the 16th century.
	The manufacture of silk ribbons is the
chief industry, Basel producing more of
these ribbons than any other city in Europe.
Much machinery is also made there and
many chemicals.


New Hampshire gave the largest pro-
portion of votes for equal suffrage ever cast
in a New England state.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TEMPLE BLOCK MISSIONARIES.

Ye called of God to labor, at Zion’s open gate
Where grand the Temple rises, in solemn, silent 
	state;
Ye that are called and chosen, His messengers to 
	be,
And kindly greet the stranger, who comes to Zion
	see.

O, tell ye of Moroni, on pedestal so high,
Who scans the Eastern mountains, with steady,
	watchful eye,
His golden trumpet blazing as ’twould the Gos-
	pel tell,
And shout the glorious tidings, say to the world
	“’tis well.”

He lived of old, Moroni, of white men was the
	last,
He saw his people slaughtered, destruction unsur-
	passed;
Their blood flowed e’en as rivers, upon the dark’n-
	ing plain,
The red man was the victor, the disobedient
	slain.

O, thou wast called Moroni, thou prophet last and 
	great,
To hide away the records, that should God’s time
	await;
To come to all the nations, lo! from Cumorah’s 
	hill.
Where on the plain died myriads, to prophecies ful-
	fill.

And he restored the record, to Joseph Smith the 
	boy,
He showed where it was hidden, the means he 
	should employ,
To bring it forth in fulness, when God’s own time 
	should be, 
To bind the past and present, unveil futurity.

O, welcome, stranger, welcome, the Gospel here is 
	free,
Here, too, are Zion’s wonders, that prove to you 
	and me
That God speaks now as ever, and prophets as of
	yore
Are sent with heaven’s message, to be withdrawn
	no more.

Right welcome are you, stranger, all kindness you’ll 
	be shown, 
And those within our portals, of other creeds or
	none,
Right royally be treated, for love alone is ours, 
The love by Jesus given, e’en in His bitt’rest
	hours.

O, Father, let the Gospel, Thou hast restored
	again,
Speak thus to all the strangers, that we may enter-
	tain,
Accept Thy holy servants, who minister for Thee,
And grant Thy Holy Spirit, to ever with them be.

Mayhap the Lord, a stranger, ere long may come
	this way,
No more within the manger, will He an infant
	lay;
Oh! if we only knew Him, we’d open wide the
	gate,
And though the crowds were thronging, we
	ne’er would bid Him “wait.”

Mayhap an angel coming, on Mercy’s errand
	bent.
Will find a welcome ent’ring, where others oft are
	sent,
So, unawares, not knowing, the Lord in gentle
	guise,
May come within our portals, unseen by great and
	wise.

And angels may be treading, our walks ’mid flow-
	ers rare
And from the Temple gazing, declare “the scene
	is fair.”
Then e’er be watching, doing, the Lord you may
	discern,
Your hearts unfold the secret, by sudden, fiercest
	burn.

And then before you glorious, the Lord revealed
	may stand,
The stranger you are clasping so warmly by the
	hand,
Then other strangers passing are seen in raiment
	fair,
Lo! angels coming, going, attendant everywhere.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


RAYMOND, ALTA, CANADA.
	Our society, though but a little more
than one year old, now has eighty-six mem-
bers enrolled, with Sister Rodeback presi-
dent, and Sisters Bevans and Anderson
counselors.
	Besides building a capacious granary,
buying window shades for meeting house,
etc., we now have some cash in the treasury
and many bushels of real live wheat, gener-
ously given from last years bountiful har-
vest. A large per cent of this wheat will
be sown on the 160 acres of rich prairie
land which the society holds. The plough-
ing and planting will be done by donation,
the crop raised will go towards paying for
the land until paid for.
	Among the many enjoyable parties given
since our society was organized, was the
character ball on February 28, where $104
was taken at the door, giving us financial
aid; and the social dance for married people
only, on the anniversary, March 17, where
four hundred danced, feasted and listened
to a fine program by talented Saints who
have gathered here from every country and
clime from Iceland’s chilly shore to Flori-
da’s flowered hills, from almost every town
of Utah and Idaho we have representatives
of one faith, striving to dwell in harmony, to
become acquainted and to live their religion.
But few require substantial aid, yet many
young married women who have left moth-
er and friends, to assist in “planting the
wilderness,” when approaching maternity
appreciate kind, hopeful words and en-
couragement from the experienced sisters
of the Relief Society.
LOUISA M. JOHNSON.
	April 6, 1903.


[Column 1]
		ANNUAL D[-]Y.
	The Mesa Ward Relief Society had pre-
pared a very interesting program and had
decorated the amusement hall for the occa-
sion.
	The exercises of the day began at ten
o’clock by the choir singing “Oh my
Father.” Prayer was offered by Bishop J.
M. Horne, after which the choir sang
“Joseph the Seer.”
	First on the program was an address of
welcome by Stake President Mabel A.
Hakes, who gave reminiscences of the early 
days of the Church and the hardships they
experienced. Spoke of her recollection of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his personal
appearance, and of Sister Sarah Phelps, the
first Relief Society president of Mesa Ward,
both of whose pictures adorned the walls in
front of us; and of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith and her noble life, and the object of
our organization.
	Bishop J. M. Horne gave a sketch of the
Prophet Joseph and his conversion finding
of the plates translation of the Book of
Mormon and the rise of the Church.
	Song by Counselor Calvin Phelps, en-
titled “Anchored.”
	Counselor Warner Allen then gave a
sketch of the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph, sixty-one
years ago.
	Recitation, “Only a Girl,” by Sister
Olena Lewis.
	Sister Sarah M. Pomeroy gave a sketch
of the organization of this branch of the
society twenty one years ago, and of the
building ot the Relief Society hall during
our days of poverty and the line of succes-
sion to office since 1882.

[Column 2]
	Two hours were then devoted to eating
and conversation.
	Dinner was served in the Relief Society
hall next door, where two long tables were
set and refilled several times. The hall was
beautifully decorated with date palms and
evergreens and appropriate motto banners.
The tables were loaded with good things
and in a bouquet on one of them was a
pretty little scroll motto in pink with gold
letters reading “Sixtieth Anniversary of
R.S.” On the other side was a pink cres-
cent shaped motto with gold letters “Mem-
bers of 1882.” On one side of this table
were seated the old members wearing red
ribbon badges on which were the words,
“Members of 1882.” On the other side of
the table were pink badges with the words,
“R. S. Teacher, 1903,” and officers wear-
ing light blue badges with the words, “R.
S. President, 1903,” or 1901, etc., the other
officers and dates being designated to suit
each individual who was to wear one.
	The program was resumed at 2 o’clock,
the first number being the reading of a
sketch of Sister Eliza R. Snow, our poet-
ess, and the author of our beloved hymn,
“Oh, my Father,” by Leah Peterson.
	Song, “Star of the East,” by Sister H 
M. Brizzie.
	Recitation by Cora Peterson, “Entertain-
ing the Missionary Agent.”
	Instrumental duet by Zina Horne and A. 
Amy LeBaron.
	Recitation, “Don’t Fret,” by Priscilla
Allen.
	Amy Dana then gave a very interesting
sketch of the life and labors of Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith.
	Recitation, “Country Eggs,” by Celia 
Smith”
	Recitation “The Face at the Window,”
by Veda Petersop.
	Next on the program was a song by
Janette Johnson, which was rendered in
her usual happy style.
	Lucy Fryer then gave a sketch of Sister
Zina D. H. Young, after which came a
charming duet by Mr. and Mrs. M. C.
Phelps.
	The Mesa band boys then favored us
with a choice selection and the exercises
were closed with benediction by M. C.
Phelps.
	The ten cent annual fund was handed in
by nearly all of the members.
	In the evening the amusement hall was
again filled with a happy company and
dancing was indulged in until midnight,
and a neat little sum was cleared for our
treasury.
	A delightful time was enjoyed by all and
our annual day celebration was a complete
success.
		CELIA A. SMITH, Cor. Sec.


In 1902, New South Wales gave full suf
frage to women, and full national suffrage
with the right to sit in Parliament, was ex-
tended to all the 800,000 women of Fed-
erated Australia.
	Miss Elsie Reasoner has been appointed
Eastern press representative of the St. Louis
Exposition in place of the late Julian Ralph.
Originally Miss Reasoner was Mr. Ralph’s
assistant. She is a native of Leavenworth;
Kan. Her father is a retired editor. Under
his direction she began newspaper work in
this city, and was well known here.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1903


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	The great Apostle, Brigham Young, so
long connected with the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, has gone from
the midst of the people who loved him so
well and to whom his counsel was ever
precious. To those who have known him
from his boyhood it seems to leave a great
vacancy in the realm of friendship and of
social life; always cheerful, always kind,
full of that element that makes for pleasan-
try, he knew the right word to say at the
right time, affable in manner and approach-
able on all occasions. A man whom once
known could never be forgotten, never
quite pass out of one’s life.
	There is not room in this number of our
little piper to give a sketch of his life, but
only to speak of him as one of the conspicu-
ous figures in the Church. A representa-
tive man of the Young family, the man
who since the death of his father (the late
president of the Church for a longer term of
years than any other man, the president who
succeeded the great Prophet of the Latter-
days, President Joseph Smith) has stood as
the head of that great family of President
Brigham Young; the members of that fam-
ily must indeed feel that they have sustained
a very great loss.
	It is in the nature of things that men die,
great men, useful men, representative men,
but it is nevertheless sad to those who are
left to mourn, and it is in human nature
one of the best qualities of the heart, that
men and women should feel keenly the loss
of friends and relatives; although we know
they are only gone before, as the poet has
so beautifully said:

“They are not lost; they are within the door
	That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself their Lord and Judge and
		King.”

	Those who saw him suffer so acutely
know now that he has entered into his rest,
and they know too that he will come forth
in the morning of the first resurrection, and
yet, after all, knowing his great desire to
live and labor for those he loved and for the
world of mankind, it will take a long time
to heal the wound, especially in the im-
mediate family circle.
	To those near and dear who saw him
after the struggle was over as he laid at
rest in the beautiful robes of the holy priest-
hood it must have been a comfort to gaze
upon his noble countenance, where there
was no longer an expression of pain but
only one of holy calm.

[Column 2]
“The face of a victor dead and crowned,
	With a smile divinely fair;
The saints and martyrs sleeping round,
	Were stirred as he entered there.

“The things that are hid from waking eyes,
	Shine clear to the veiled sight;
From the last deep sleep the dead arise, 
	To walk on the shores of Light.

“The journey is over, the fight is fought,
	He hath seen the Home of his Love,
And the heavenly smile on his face was caught
	From celestial world’s above.”

	Brother Brigham Young was born De-
cember 18, 1836, at Kirtland, then Geauga
Co., Ohio, and was set apart as one of the
Twelve Apostles, October 9, 1868, in Salt
Lake City, more than thirty-four years ago.
During all that time he has labored diligent-
ly in the interest of the Church of God upon
the earth; he has traveled as a missionary
in many countries and among many people,
and borne testimony of the truth revealed
from heaven in these last days for the sal-
vation of the world. Much of the time dur-
ing these years of travel he was absent from
his family, which to them was more or less
painful and to him it was also a sacrifice,
though made willingly on account of his
great love for the truth. He was a man of
great courage and devoted to his father and
mother, and in his boyhood most affection-
ate and even reverential in his bearing to-
wards them. Of his mother’s children only
two remain, his sister Luna, Mrs. George
Thatcher, of Logan, (very recently left a
widow) and his brother, Hon. John W.
Young, of New York City, yet Brother
Brigham was near in love and sympathy to
all his father’s numerous household. They
will all miss his kindly greetings, his wise
counsels and his presence in the family
gatherings.
	The funeral services were held in the
large Tabernacle, President Joseph F.
Smith, so long associated with him in the
Quorum of the Twelve, presiding. The
interior of the building was draped in white
crepe and an oil painting of the deceased
hung in front of the organ, artistically
draped with white crepe; the floral decor-
ations were effectively arranged aud the
tributes of flowers from relatives and friends
made an exquisite setting for the elegant
white casket containing the beloved form of
the Apostle to whom many thousands of
the hosts of Israel paid respectful reverence
on that day.
	The opening hymn was a great favorite
of Brother Young’s and one especially ap-
propriate on such occasions, “The Resur-
rection Hymn.”
	Brother Brigham had a most excellent
voice and was very fond of singing the
songs of Zion.
	The prayer was by Apostle George Teas-
dale and was full of feeling devoutly ex-
pressed in language suited to the sublime
services in the Lord’s house.
	The hymn, “O my Father,” which al-
ways seems to draw us near to the worlds on
high, was sung by the magnificent Taber-
nacle choir in strains that touched every
heart.
	The speakers were men who had been
his bosom friends and associates, and who
were devotedly attached to the deceased:
first, Elders John Henry Smith and John
W. Taylor, after which Mrs. Edwards sang
a solo, “I know that my Redeemer liveth,”
and then his cousin, Elder Seymour B.
Young, addressed the congregation, fol-
lowed by Presidents John R. Winder and
Anthon H. Lund.

[Column 3]
	President Joseph F. Smith was the last
speaker and paid a glowing tribute of re-
spect and admiration to his departed fellow-
laborer. He closed his remarks with
these impressive words:
	“President Smith, speaking to the family
of President Young testified that their
father had received a testimony of the truth,
to which he had adhered with Godlike
fidelity and devotion to the last. Nor was
he deceived in this testimony. He, like his
illustrious father, knew that the work he
was engaged in was true, aud he continued
in it to the end and had now gone to re-
ceive his just reward. It remained for the
family of this good man to honor his mem-
ory by emulating his example. Then all
would be well with them. We are all mor-
tal and have failings and imperfections, but
if we seek to know the Lord, that knowl-
edge will be given us and through faithful-
ness we shall come out conquerers in the
end.”
	The closing hymn was very effecting:

		“Rest for the weary soul,
		Rest for the aching head,
		Rest on the hillside rest
		With the great uncounted dead.”

	The benediction was pronounced by
Elder Marriner W. Merrill, of the Quorum
of the Apostles.
	At the cemetery, where the deceased was
laid away in his last resting place, the
grave was dedicated by Elder Mathias F.
Cowley. The singing at the cemetery be-
fore and after the interment was sublimely
impressive.
	May our Heavenly Father comfort those
who mourn, those who are thus bereft and
may they follow in his footsteps as they
have been advised by President Smith, and
all will be well.


IN MEMORIAM.
HON. SEPTIMUS W. SEARS.
Leaves have their time to fall
And flowers to wither at the north-wind’s breath,
And stars to set—but all,
Thou hast all seasons for thine own. O Death.
	It is true, as Mrs. Heman's has so beauti-
fully expressed it, that death claims its vic-
tims at all seasons and all hours, and with
death comes sorrow, no matter when or
where.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the
death of one of our own family, almost of
our own household, who departed this life
at 3:15 a. m , April 7, 1903, after a few
days severe illness, having taken a bad
cold, la grippe set in and later on pneu-
monia; the coughing was incessant and the
patient could not lie down at all, but suffered
excruciatingly. Death came very sudden-
ly and he passed away without a struggle.
Sad indeed however for those who are left
to mourn the loss of husband and father.
	To those who knew S. W. Sears in a
business way he will be very greatly missed,
especially the president and members of the
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society of which he has been for some
years past the able and efficient secretary.
His work in and for the society has been
most creditable, he was diligent and up-
right and strictly honest and honorable.
As a business man he was highly esteemed;
he was far-sighted and calculated closely;
he was a man of affairs; he was one who
had helped to build up this commonwealth.
He built at different times several homes in
this city, which were all of them a credit to


[Column 1]
his planning, he also built one house in
Ogden and was superintendent of the
branqh of the Z. C. M. I. there, and the
building used for that purpose was erected
under his supervision. He was naturally
very fond of flowers and of beautiful sur-
roundings. At the home in East Waterloo,
where he died and where the funeral ser-
vices were held on Sunday, April 12, his
roses, shrubbery and other adornments at-
tracted great admiration for beauty and
variety.
	Septimus W. Sears was born in Caldicot,
Bedfordshire, England, March 8, 1844, and
it was there he embraced the Gospel when
a young boy, he was sent out with the Eld-
ers and traveled distributing tracts and
speaking in connection with the Elders,
and manifested such zeal and enthusiasm
that when only eighteen he was made presi-
dent of the Liverpool conference appointed
by President George Q. Cannon, then
president of the European mission, although
he was the youngest Elder in the mission.
it was during this period of time that he
wrote for the Millennial Star, both prose
and poetry—his articles attracted consider-
able attention, and it is true in whatever
line of work he was engaged he excelled;
his ability was exceptionally good in all the
affairs he undertook he carried them through
successfully.
	He was a member of the Legislature of 1893
and 1894 and did excellent work in the inter-
est of the State. He would have made a fine
lawyer had he chosen that profession, his
judgement in matters pertaining to law and
equity were always fair and just. He was
zealous in working to secure Statehood and
spoke in various places in the State on the
platform for the Republican party. He had
great executive ability and was naturally
persistent and industrious, an early riser
and could be seen every morning working
in his orchard or garden before going to his
business office up town, where he kept regu-
lar hours as long as he was able to attend
to his calling and duties there.
	Not only was Mr. Sears methodically a
man of business, but he was also a student,
a reader, fond of books and of poetry and
music, and of all really beautiful things.
and of a domestic nature, a lover of home
and of quiet and refined surroundings.
	There were many very beautiful floral
offerings from relatives and friends and the
elegant white casket containing his mortal
remains was literally embowered in the
roses he loved so well in life. He looked
natural and pleasant in his white robes,
serene and calm after the terrible suffering.

	“After the burden and heat of the day.
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way,
		A sleep in the robe of white.”

	The silent chamber faceth the east,
		Faceth the dawn of day,
	And the shining feet of the great High Priest,
		Shall break thro’ the shadows gray.

	The stars are watching the sleeping saint,
		And lighting the sleeping brow;
	But the light of the stars is cold and faint,
		To the glory he dreameth now.”

	The funeral services at the residence of
the deceased were held at 2 p. m, Sunday,
April 12. The house was filled to overflow-
ing with friends and relatives. Bishop N. A.
Empey had charge of the services although
Bishop H. F. Burton, of Farmers’ Ward,
was present. Of the First Presidency, Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and President John
R. Winder, Apostle John Henry Smith,
Pres’ts S. B. Young and Geo. Renolds of the

[Column 2]
Seventies, Gov. H. M. Wells and Bishop
O. F. Whitney, Elder John T. Caine and
Elder A. W. Carlson, and most of the Dir-
ectors of the D. A. & M. Society.
	The exercises opened with singing “Near-
er ray God to Thee,” by the quartette H.
G. Whitney, George D. Pyper and John D.
Spencer and William Patrick.
	An eloquent prayer was offered by Presi-
dent Seymour B. Young, after which Elder
George D. Pyper sang “O my Father,”
very beautifully, Brother Beesley accom-
panist, Consoling remarks were made,
many of those who spoke having been
associated with Mr. Sears in business rela-
tions or missionary work which brought
them very closely together.
	President John R. Winder was the
first speaker, followed by Elder John
Nicholson, then Bishop O. F. Whitney
read Mrs. Heman’s poem, “Ode to Death,”
which Brother Sears had some years before
requested should be read at his funeral. It
contains the verse quoted at the head of the
article,

	“Leaves have their time to fall.”

	After the reading, Apostle John Henry
Smith spoke, followed by Bishop John Wat-
son of Ogden, and Bishop Empey, and the
quartette sang “Dear Refuge of the
Weary.”

	“Dear refuge of the weary.
		On Thee when sorrows rise,
	When life seems dark and dreary,
		My fainting hope relies.
	A sweet relief shall cheer me,
		In every pain I feel,
	For Thou art ever near me,
		In all Thy love to heal.

	With gloomy doubts prevailing,
		I fear to call Thee mine.
	The springs of comfort failing.
		And all my hopes decline.
	Where shall I flee, O Savior,
		Thou art my only trust,
	I’ll cling more closely to Thee,
		When prostrate in the dust.

	Thy mercy seat is open,
		There let my soul retreat,
	In hunble faith relying,
		And wait beneath Thy feet.
	Thine ear is ever ready,
		To hear the mourner’s prayer,
	O, let me still find access,
		To breathe my sorrow there.”

	At the cemetery the grave, was lined with
flowers and Bishop Empey offered the dedi-
catory prayer. The quartette rendered the
hymn, “The Christian’s Good Night.”
The grave was literally covered with the
most beautiful flowers.
	So He bringeth them unto their desired haven.
—Psalms cvii: 30.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
(Continued.)
A PARAGRAPH FROM THE HISTORY OF
JOSEPH SMITH.
NAUVOO, ILL., Tuesday, March 24, 1842.
	"I attended by request, the Relief Society
whose object is the relief of the poor, the
destitute, the widow and the orphan, and
for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.
Mrs. Emma Smith has taken the presiden-
tial chair; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
and Mrs Sarah M. Cleveland are her coun-
selors; Mrs. Elvira Cole is treasurer, and
our well-known and talented poetess, Miss
Eliza R. Snow, secretary. There was a
very numerous attendance, at the organiz-
ation, of some of our most intelli-
gent, humane, philanthropic and respect-
able ladies, and we are well assured from a

[Column 2]
knowledge of those pure principles of bene-
volence that flow spontaneously from their
humane and philanthropic bosoms, that
with the resources they will have at com-
mand, they will fly to the relief of the
stranger; they will pour oil and wine into the
wounded heart of the distressed; they will
dry up the tears of the orphan, and make
the widow's heart to rejoice. Our ladies
have always been signalized for their acts
of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel
usage they have received from the barbar-
ians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented
their extending the hand of charity in a
conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of
their persecutions, when the bread has been
torn from their helpless offspring by their
cruel oppressors, they have always been
ready to open their doors to the weary
traveler, to divide their scanty pittance with
the hungry, and from their robbed and im-
poverished wardrobes, to divide with the
more needy and destitute; and now that
they are living in a more genial soil, and
among a less barbarous people, and possess
facilities that they have not heretofore en-
joyed, we feel convinced that with their
concentrated efforts, the condition of the
suffering poor, of the stranger and the
fatherless will be ameliorated. We had the
privilege of being present at their organiza-
tion and were very much pleased with their
"modus operandi," and the good order that
prevailed. They are strictly parliamentary
in their proceedings."

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY, NAUVOO, JUNE
	9TH, 1842. REPORTED BY MISS E. R.
	SNOW.
	President Joseph Smith opened the meet-
ing by prayer and then addressed the congre-
gation on the design of the institution. Said
it is no matter how fast the society in-
creases, if all the members are virtuous;
that we must be as particular with regard
to the character of members now as when
the society first started; that sometimes per-
sons wish to crowd themselves into a soci-
ety of this kind when they do not intend
to pursue the ways of purity and righteous-
ness, as if the society would be a shelter to
them in their iniquity.
	Objections having been previously made
against Sister—, they were removed;
after which President Joseph Smith con-
tinued his address; said he was going
to preach mercy. Suppose that Jesus Christ
and holy angels should object to us on friv-
olous things, what would become of us?
We must be merciful to one another and
overlook small things.
	Respecting the reception of Sister—,
President Joseph Smith said, "It grieves
me that there is no fuller fellowship
if one member suffer all feel it; by un-
ion of feeling we obtain power with God.
Christ said He came to call sinners to re-
pentance, and save them. Christ was con-
demned by the self-righteous Jews because
he took sinners into his society; he took
them upon the principle that they repented
of their sins. It is the object of this soci-
ety to reform persons, not to take those
who are corrupt and foster them in their
wickedness, but if they repent we are
bound to take them, and by kindness sancti-
fy and cleanse them from all unrighteous-
ness by our influence in watching over
them. Nothing will have such influence
over people as the fear of being disfellow-
shiped by so goodly a society as this. Then


take Sister—— as Jesus received sinners in-
to His bosom. Sister——, in the name of
the Lord, I now make you free. Nothing
is so much calculated to lead people to for-
sake sin as to take them by the hand, and
watch over them with tenderness. When
persons manifest the least kindness or love
towards me, O what power it has over my
mind, while the opposite course has a ten-
dency to harrow up all the harsh feelings
and depress the human mind.
	‘It is one evidence that men are un-
acquainted with the principles of godliness
to behold the contraction of affectionate
feelings and lack of charity in the world.
The power and glory of godliness is spread
out on a broad principle to throw nut the
mantle of charity. God does not look up-
on sin with allowance, but when men have
sinned, there must be allowance made for
them.
	“All the religious world is boasting of
righteousness it is the doctrine of the devil
to retard the human mind, and hinder our
progress by filling our minds with self-
righteousness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls;
we feel that we want to take them upon
our shoulders, and cast their sins behind
our backs. My talk is intended for all this
society if you would have God have mercy
on you, have mercy on one another.”
	President Smith then referred them to
the conduct of the Savior when he was
taken and crucified, etc.
	He then made a promise in the name of
the Lord, saying that that soul who has
righteousness enough to ask God in the
secret place for life, every day of their
lives, shall live to three score years and
ten. We must walk uprightly all the day
long. How glorious are. the principles of
righteousness! we are full of selfishness;
the devil flatters us that we are very right-
eous when we are feeding on the faults of
others. We can only live by worshiping
out God; all must do it for themselves
none can do it for another. How mild the
Savior dealt with Peter, saying, “When
thou art converted, strengthen thy breth-
ren.” At another time He said to him,
“Lovest thou me?” and having received
Peter’s reply He said, “Feed my sheep.”
If the sisters love the Lord, let them feed
the sheep, and not destroy them. How oft
have wise men and women sought to dic-
tate Brother Joseph by saying, “Oh, if I
were Brother Joseph I would do this and
that” but if they were in Brother Joseph’s
shoes, they would find that men or women
could not be compelled into the kingdom of
God, but must be dealt with in long-suffer-
ing, and at last we shall save them. The
way to keep all the Saints together and
to keep the work rolling, is to wait with all
long-suffering, till God shall bring such
characters to justice. There should be no
license for sin, but mercy should go hand
in hand with reproof.
	“Sisters of this society shall there be
strife among you? I will not have it. 
You must repent and get the love of God.
Away with self-righteousness. The best
measure or principle to briug the poor to
repentance is to administer to their wants.
The Ladies’ Relief Society is not only to
relieve, the poor, but to save souls.”
	President Smith then said that he would
give a lot of land to the society, by deeding
it to the treasurer, that the society may
build a house for the poor. He also said he

[Column 2]
would give a house frame, not finished, and
that Brother Cahoon will move it on to the
aforesaid lot, and the society can pay him by
giving orders on the store that it was a
good plan to set those to work who are
owing widows, and then make an offset etc.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city, April 3, 1903, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., president Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. On the stand with the
president was her first counselor, Sister
Annie T. Hyde, Secretary Emmeline B.
Wells, Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams,
President M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt
Lake Stake, President Susan Grant, of
Davis Stake, President Rebecca Standring,
Alpine Stake, also Sisters Romania B. Pratt,
Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards, Phebe
Y. Beatie and Annie Wells Cannon of the
General Board.
	Meeting opened with the congregation
singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by Sister Susan Grant.
Singing, “High on the mountain top.”
	Secretary E. B. Wells called the roll of
the General Officers, the Board, missionaries
and presidents of Stakes, showing a good-
ly number present.
	President B. W. Smith then made an
opening address. She was pleased to see
so many present, thought them very good
looking, they were working in a very good
cause; the Relief Society was the grandest
of organizations, she knew they were doing
a good work and were getting some help
from the mothers’ work and nurses’ class,
she wanted the young mothers and young
grandmothers to take hold and urged them
to join the Relief Society, even if they did
belong to the Young Ladies. President
Joseph F. Smith had said the mothers’ work
must be under the Relief Society president
and she must have help if necessary. Sister
Smith then said, “Be good to the poor and
needy, look after the dead and continue
in these good works; be truthful, honest
and pure, and teach your children to do
right.” She longed to hear the reports of
the presidents, it was always a feast, and
the time seemed always too short; she re-
joiced in the Gospel and in all its good
works.
	Secretary was requested to call the Stake
presidents from a distance.
	Sister Elizabeth Hardy reported the East-
ern district of Alberta, a very excellent re-
port, granaries in every ward except Sterl-
ing, and they were building one, the gran-
aries were full of wheat; they had a meet-
ing house and a nice large school house
and about $10.00, they had been holding
meetings in private houses until lately, but
now held them in the schoolhouses, the sis-
ter felt diffident about reporting, as this
was her first time.
	Cassia Stake			they were
striving to do the best they could, the set-
tlements were scattered oyer about 700
miles around the Stake, they had consider-
able grain on hand and the branches were
in good working order, in Oakley a new
meeting house had been built and paid for;
in the 3rd ward the sisters had a fine gran-
ary; the Stake officers visited just as often
as they could considering the circumstances.
	Fremont reported by the secretary, Sister
Sarah A. Barnes, they had visited every
ward and all were doing well, they own six

[Column 2]
or seven granaries and one in course of
erection, they had good meetings and good
average attendance and seemed to have the
spirit of their calling.
	Counselor Elizabeth Pugh represented
Kanab Stake, their’s was a very hard Stake
to visit, it took five days through snow and
mud, they had good sisters, but they were
so far from headquarters that perhaps they
did not do all they should, had been quar-
antined on account of small pox, which had
been a hindrance to their regular work.
	President Louisa B. Benson spoke for
Oneida Stake, said they were united with
the presidency of the Stake, the officers of
the Stake meet quarterly, the wards semi-
monthly, devoted a part of the time in the
meeting to the mothers’ work, hoped and
believed this would encourage the young
sisters to join the society, they made the
meetings as interesting as possible, had the
sisters in the meetings join the lectures in
the subjects and that helped to awaken an
interest.
	President Martha Hammond, San Juan
Stake, thought they were doing very well
under the circumstances, their treasury was
low and the wheat question rather behind
as they had not raised much wheat of late
years but were more prosperous this year;
she had not been able to visit much but
through correspondence had been kept in-
formed of the work, she had been excused
by President Lyman from attending the
Stake conference but hoped hereafter to be
able to do better.
	President Sophia Rigby, Teton Stake.
They had eight branches in the lower
valley and two in Jackson, they had visited
those in Jackson this last winter, the Stake
had only been organized one year last fall,
but had a goodly number of sisters and a
good average attendance in summer time,
but in winter it was difficult to hold meet-
ings, they were trying to arouse an inter-
est in building, there was only one ward
that owned its meeting house yet; the sis-
ters feel that by attending to their duties
the Lord blesses them; they had collected
fifty dollars on the dollar donation for the
Woman’s Building. “We have 182 members
in the lower valley, but do not know the
number in Jackson; we feel the work is en-
joyable and that we will be blessed in going
on in our labors.”
	Sister Maggie C. Hull sang very beauti-
fully a soprano solo, “Where He May Lead
I Will Follow.”
	President Eliza M. Oram, Pocatello Stake.
She had visited each ward in the Stake,
twice last year and was now on the eve of
visiting again, the Stake had been organ-
zed five years, they were all poor, but
there were some of the loveliest women that
ever lived; and she knew they were trying
to do as well as possible under the circum-
stances, she then gave some statistics, and
also said they were united in their labors,
held Stake officers meeting once a month,
their Stake president, Brother Hyde, met
with them, she had always taken the ad-
vice of the General Board and had the
assistance of their Stake president, Brother
Hyde.
	Woodruff Stake, President Jane Barlow
Muir, they had one society in the valley
organized about six months, that had not
yet been visited, this one society would
take a week to visit on account of the dis-
tance. “When the weather settles we shall
visit all the wards, four of these are among
the mining districts, but we find lovely sis-


ters there, full of faith and energy; the peo-
ple are coming and going all the time, so it
is rather discouragiug because when the
sisters move away there has to be a reorgan-
ization, yet they do finely. I feel badly
that I cannot give more time to this work,
but I have a family of little ones and can-
not do more. We are helping the Bishops
to build meeting houses, and in this the
sisters have done remarkably well, and we
help the poor and the sick, we hope to be
able to do more in the future than we have
in the past."
	Box Elder Stake, President Susannah P.
Booth, they were in good condition, they
traveled with the brethren in visiting the
Stake, it took a week to get around, they
had seven or eight thousand bushels of
grain laid up, she felt they had as good and
as faithful sisters in Box Elder as could be
found anywhere, her report was an excel-
lent one in every respect.
	President Williamina Erickson of North
Sanpete Stake, they visited all the branches
twice a year, but recently had to miss some
on account of sickness, believed all were
trying to live their religion and do the best
they could. "We have but one sisters' hall
in the Stake but two others are in process of
erection." She hoped to receive instruction
and be enabled to go forward in the good
work.
	President Rebecca L. Rawlins, Benson
Stake, gave some statistics, stated that the
poor were well cared for and the Bishop
said they could not do without the Relief
Society, referred to having changed their
old wheat for new to good advantage,
mothers' work had been started in all the
wards and were very interesting, President
of the Stake and Bishops had visited them
and were delighted, she considered it an
honor to be associated with our president
and associates.
	President Christina Sorenson, Sevier
Stake, said all the wards in that Stake were
in good condition, they had held confer-
ence on March 21, and all were represented,
they had three halls and seven granaries in
that Stake, hold four conferences in a year,
changing the places to accomodate the
wards, have mothers' work in some
places.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo, "O
Come Unto Me."
	Benediction. Adjourned until 2 p. m.
E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


OBITUARIES.
DEATH OF SISTER MARY P. JACOBSEN.

	On March 3, 1903, we were called upon to part 
with one of our most beloved sisters. Sister Mary
P. Litz Jacobsen. She was born in Virginia, 
March 24, 1863, and was one of the first of her
father’s family to embrace the Gospel. She met
with opposition from her parents, but asked the
assistance of the Lord, that she might join the 
Church and at the same time remain obedient to 
her parents. In answer to her prayer her mother
was convinced in a dream that it was her duty to
consent to the baptism of her daughter. 
	Though she has departed from this sphere of
action, the memory of her noble character and 
good deeds still remain with us. Her life was in-
deed worthy of emulation, for she was one 
of the most noble and pure-minded of women. All 
who knew her loved her. She had a loving smile 
and kind word for all.
	She was ever faithful in the performance of her 
duty and could always give words of counsel and 
comfort. She has labored in the different associa-
tions for many years, mainly in the Y. L. N. M.
I. A. and Relief Society, having been counselor in 
the Y. L. N. M. I. A. of Lewiston for a number of 
years, and also secretary in the Relief Society, and 
was at the time of her death secretary of the Ben-


son Stake Relief Society. She never shirked
from any task placed upon her, though for many
years she had poor health.
	She leaves a husband and two children, a son
and a daughter, her son having left for the mission
field but two weeks before her death. Although
she was sick at the time of his departure, she did
not wish him to remain, but desired to see him go
when he was called.
		MARIA HUTTLEBALLE, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
			N. W. R. S. REPORT.
TO THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN,
	EXECUTIVE SESSION, 1903, GIVEN BY
	DELEGATE CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS.

Madame President, Officers and Members of
	the National Council of Women of the
	United Stales:

	DEAR FRIENDS: Since the report of the
National Womans’ Relief Society made at
the Triennial in Washington, D. C., in
February, 1902, there seems but little of
importance to report.
	In April of that year the general officers
of the society published a pamphlet of one
hundred pages, containing a brief sketch of
the society, its history, work and aims, and
a biography of its new president, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, with general instruc-
tions to the members and other minor mat-
ters pertaining to the society.
	May 13, the new president of the Nation-
al Council, Mrs. William Tod Helmuth,
and honorary president, Mrs. T. St. John’s
Gaffney, with the president and members
of the General Federation of Clubs, paid
Salt Lake a flying visit on their return from
Los Angeles, California. Their train being
late, there could not be a Council meeting
as we had anticipated. A delegation of
ladies from the N. W. R, S. and Y. L. N.
M. I. A. met them at the station on their
arrival and accompanied them to the Taber-
nacle recital and also on an excursion to
Saltair, and gave a reception in their honor
in the evening at the residence of the vice-
president, Mrs. Alonzo E. Hyde, where
they met many of our most prominent
citizens. We were very desirous of having
them remain with us longer, but that was
not possible.
	May 15, our society in connection with
the Y. L. N. M. I. A., celebrated the Uni-
versal Peace Day throughout all our organ-
zations, in every city, town and hamlet as
far as they could be reached by correspon-
dence and otherwise, inviting and urging
all to attend, of whatever church or creed
or belief. The resolutions sent out by Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, who was in charge of
the affair in the United States, were read
and voted upon unanimously by all present,
almost without exception. This demon-
stration was far-reaching, and we feel posi-
tive was a brilliant success in diffusing senti-
ments of peace and arbitration, as there
was much enthusiasm manifest, and our
women feel this awakening in the cause of
peace is in the right direction to bring
about better conditions for all mankind.
	The silk industry which has always been
fostered and encouraged by the society has
done some active work during the year in
planting out hundreds, and even thousands
of mulberry trees on land owned by the
society in localities suitable to sericulture.
The leaves give food to the silk worms 
while they spin their cocoons, and the State
pays a small bounty on the best quality of
cocoons. Young girls in large numbers have
been taught the art of reeling silk, through
the influence of the women of this benevo-
lent organization.

[Column 2]
	A large class of young women are study-
ing to become trained nurses with an emi
nent woman physician Dr. Margaret C
Roberts, under the auspices of the Relie<f>
Society. Dr. Roberts employs the best
physicians and surgeons known to the medi- 
cal faculty of this city to give lectures to
the class from time to time, besides her own
regular course of training. These nurses.
expect to give a certain proportion of time
(stipulated for in a written agreement) to
charity, nursing among the poor under the
direction of a general superintendent, Mrs.
Emma A. Empey. This will be given in
the locality from which they were sent,
when they have finished the course and
returned home equipped for service with 
certificates from the Medical Board after
passing their examinations. These young
students are 87 in number, and are from 
Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona, Oregon and
New Mexico, as well as Utah.
	This last year there has been introduced
into the society what is designated mothers’
work as a department, with the hope that 
young mothers may be materially benefited
and helped through systematic method
permeating the home life of parent and
child. This is being done through lectures
by women of large experience in such mat-
ters as relates to motherhood in all its
phases, and open discussion permitted after
the lecture, or questions asked by those de-
siring information and to be replied to with
intelligent explanations, that all may get a
clear understanding of what has been given
by the speaker.
	We are also introducing, wherever prac-
ticable, domestic science and hygiene as
helps to young housekeepers who have not
had the advantages of home training along
these lines, and as a matter of economy in
saving time and labor, that the mother may
devote more time and energy to the spiritu-
al and intellectual growth of herself and
family.
	In the way of material progress the
society is building more housesand halls
for meetings and other purposes, and gran-
aries for storing wheat against a time of
scarcity or of need. One Stake house has
been finished, furnished and dedicated dur-
ing the last year. It is situated in the city
of Ogden, and was built by the donations of
the society in Weber Co., for conferences
and mass meetings, lectures, etc. The
president of the county, who superintended
and planned the building, is Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, well known to some of the
ladies of the Council.
	In all the labors undertaken by the society
they never lose sight of the main object of
the society, viz: to care for the poor, the
sick, the sorrowing and unfortunate; to
strive to make their burdens lighter, and to
alleviate distress and comfort the mourner;
to watch by the bedside of the dying, and
minister such spiritual consolation as will
help to soothe the last hours of the sufferer;
to pour the healing balm of love and sym-
pathy into the wounded hearts of those
who mourn, and make their sorrows lighter
by sweet and tender interest in their wel-
fare. Such is the mission and labor of these
faithful sisters of mercy and of charity,
whose deeds of loving tenderness cannot be
recorded.

[corner of page is torn]
	In looking over the reports made by the
secretaries from the Stakes of Zion and
sions, there was one Stake that
head of sheep. In sum
the society during


able that in its various branches it has in-
creased in good works and developed in
affairs generally, and that the women of
this great organization are growing and
broadening in thought and activity along
the lines that lead to a higher life and
broader culture in that which will tend to
better the home, the state and the nation.
	The general officers of the society and those
who have been selected to assist them in its
supervision, visit all the several conferences
where reports are made, and make such
suggestions as seem wise and helpful
to the advancement of the work under-
taken. This is educational to those who
travel and speak in the interest of the
society, as well as advantageous to the ones
whom they visit. They travel every year
thousands of miles in this interest. Our
Relief Society reaches all the people and
has been a means of helpfulness in the daily
lives of the women that cannot be overesti-
mated. We have just celebrated, on the
seventeenth of this month, our sixty-first
anniversary in all the branches throughout
the entire society.
	Our president, who is now over eighty
years of age, is in the full vigor of life and
health, and sends love and greeting to this
grand council of women. She is interested
in all woman's work for righteousness and
peace throughout the world, and our society
stands as a bulwark of strength to forward
every great movement for the good of the
human race.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.

[page torn]
ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
for your money.								TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors 
	to open savings accounts in their own 
	name, subject to their own order. Have 
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said 
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1 3 Main Street.


NOTICE TO THOSE INTERESTED IN SERI-
CULTURE.
	The Utah Silk Commission takes pleasure
in calling the attention of the people of our
State to the fact that the season of raising
silk worms is here again, and that the com-
mission is prepared to distribute silk worm
eggs to those who desire to engage in this
industry this year. Many letters from those
who intend taking up the work this season
have been received, and we hope those who
have raised silk in the past will profit in
the future by their past experiences and do
all they can to improve the quality of their
cocoons, as we are anxious to have the
exhibit we shall make at the Fair in St.
Louis as representative of the entire State
as possible, and trust that the people will
do all they can to assist us.
	We must again advise those engaging in
this work to use the pamphlet of instruc-
tions issued by the Commission, as many
failures in the past have come through the
use of other books. We must remember
that the great climatic differences must be
considered; this is one reason why we have
so much better results when we understand
how to take advantage of our conditions.
In any emergency likely to arise, you will
find the information you need by referring
to our instructions. These books of in-
struction—also the silk worm eggs—will
be sent to those who desire them, within
the State, absolutely free of cost.
	We are pleased to inform the public that


the interest and work, which may some time
be of great assistance to those interested in
this industry, is still going on in Washing-
ton, also that the line of scientific experi-
mental work taken up by us through the
Experiment Station at Logan will be con-
tinued, and during this year a bulletin on
silk culture will be issued, containing a his-
tory of its growth in the State, facts re-
garding the growing of mulberry trees and
much information that we greatly need.
	We were much pleased with the interest
which has led to the planting of great num-
bers of mulberry trees, and trust this work
may go on as the production of large quan-
tities of silk in the future depends on the
work done in this line, and it will also add
greatly to the agricultural wealth of the
State.
	Address all letters to the Secretary, Room
502 City and County Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	SECRETARY UTAH SILK COMMISSION.


[Column 1]
		GRANITE STAKE.
	The eleventh quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of the Granite Stake of Zion
was held in the Mill Creek meeting house,
Tuesday morning, February 10, 1903.
	Presidency of the Stake Relief Society
Emma S. Woodruff, Mary P. Young and
Katharine H Brockbank, the secretary, as-
sistant secretary, treasurer and aids were on
the stand.
	After the opening exercises, the secretary
called the roll, all wards but one repre-
sented. Minutes and yearly report read
and accepted. President Emma S. Wood-
ruff greeted all with a kindly welcome and
expressed her pleasure in seeing so many
present to enjoy the spirit of the conference.
	President Sarah B. Gibson reported Sugar
Ward; President Christina Bird, Grant;
President Eliza White, Wilford.
	President Woodruff introduced Sister
Miller as the wife of Prof. J. T. Miller of
the L. D. S. College.
	Sister Miller spoke of the necessity of all
mothers and young girls storing their minds
with good practical knowledge.
	Sister Maria Johnson reported Granger
Ward; President Charlotte Neilson, Hunter;
and Counselor Mary P. Benson, Taylors-
ville. These sisters spoke of their being
united with their Bishops and doing all
they could to relieve the wants of the
poor and sick.
	Treasurer Maria B. Winder, of Granite
Stake, felt that we were all interested
in our missionaries and said she would read
a letter from Apostle Heber J. Grant, writ-
ten to President John R. Winder. All were
very much interested in the letter.
	Aid Emily M. Brinton: “As Sister Wood-
ruff has told you I have lately returned from
a mission in Europe with my husband.”
She gave an account of some of their mis-
sionary experiences.
	After singing, Brother Walter Hewick
offered the benediction.

[Column 2]
	Afternoon session. We were favored with
the presence of President Frank Y. Taylor.
	Sister Armeda S. Young explained the
plan of the mothers’ work. Urged the
sisters who took these lectures to be prayer-
ful and ask for guidance of their Heavenly 
Father, that all might work harmoniously
together under the direction of their presi-
dents; and try to make a thorough study of
the spiritual, moral and physical develop-
ment of our growing boys and girls; the
subject of motherhood the Word of Wis-
dom, study and practice it that we may re-
ceive the blessings promised those who
obey.
	Bishop Day, of Hunter, had enjoyed the 
spirit of the conference.
	A song was then sung by Elder Joseph
A. White.
	Sister Miller: “You have a beautiful plan 
of work laid out for you, and by working
and studying you will get truths and hid-
den treasures.” Referred to the Word of
Wisdom and the necessity of observing it.
Referred to the work that was being done
in the L. D. S. College as an excellent work 
to prepare the young girls for motherhood.
	President Frank Y. Taylor was pleased
with the report that Sister Woodruff gave
of this Stake Spoke of the first great law,
to love the Lord with all your might, mind
and strength, and your neighbor as your- 
self.	Urged all to guard themselves that
they did not lose the faith to find no fault
with the Priesthood of God or criticise
them, and set this worthy example before 
your children. Read from the Do[-]trine
and Covenants. Spoke of the necessity of
mothers keeping in close touch with their
daughters and teach them to guard and
prize their virtue and keep themselves pure.
	Counselor Mary P. Young spoke of try-
ing sometimes to shirk duties and spoke of
the need of taking hold of self and straight-
ening up to duty. Referred to thoughts
that passed through her mind at last fast
meeting when one of the speakers remarked
that “the Savior’s coming was near.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff was sorry
to learn that some of the missionaries were
getting slack, as they had accomplished a
great deal of good in the past.
	Singing, and benediction by Bishop
Hamilton.
		ARMEDA S. YOUNG, Sec.


12
Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 31 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1903 Nos. 23-24


CONTENTS.
A Beloved Mother in Israel............E. B. W.		89
Anniversary Celebration—Lyman, Idaho...
	............................Marintha Atkinson		90
Anniversary Celebration—Archer, Idaho......
	..............................Sarah S. Briggs			90
History of the Relief Society...................		91
Items From Nibley, Oregon...............Com.		91
General Conference Relief Society...E. B. W.	92
Mothers’ Work....................................			94
Obituaries......................................				95
Life, Marriage and Death..........A. E. F.			95
Relief Society Reports..........................			96
EDITORIAL—Thirty-one Volumes................	92
	In Memoriam....................................		92
	Editorial Notes.............................			92
POETRY—Life’s Labor Won...Orion W. Snow	89
	Florence—Thirteen Today...L. D. Alder		91


LIFE’S LABOR WON.
Aimless, wandering, purposeless, alone,
No flaming beam from heaven’s resplendent
	throne
Illum’d his way; e’en so our father went,
As some predestined star as yet unsent
To its exalted orb. The day, the hour
Propitious came; the Holy Ghost in power
Bore record to his soul of wondrous things
Of realms of glory, whence eternal springs
The fount of truth; of mansions shining bright,
How Jesus loved, how to dispel the night
All earthly sufferings He in patience bore
And on the cross His bleeding members tore;
Then could a mortal through obedience trace
From earth a pathway to the throne of grace.
The Spirit spoke: “Now, Wilford, know the voice,
You’re called and chosen.” ’Twas enough; his
	choice
Was made; a power from heaven’s high source
Dispelled all doubt, and mapped his future course.
When on a troubled, sea, the surf rolled high.
And angry tempests swept the raging sky.
The good ship Zion laboring on the wave,
’Peared as if destined to a watery grave;
For o’er her damaged decks the billows rushed.
And in the strain her yielding timbers crushed.
“A leak!” the terror-ladened cry arose,
While fiercely raged her elemental foes.
In the dark time when powers of earth and hell
Seemed doubly linked the cause of truth to fell,
Some men’s hearts failed them, some in anger
	cried,
“There is no God to stay the surging tide;
For if in Zion now there was a God,
Upon her foes would fall His chastening rod.”
Calm and unruffled, undismayed and proved,
Firm as the mount, as adamant unmoved,
Wilford the Faithful stood, with radiant hope.
As tempered steel with keen-edged powers to
	cope,
With every foe; his strength injected arm
Sustained his Chief. When duty struck the alarm,
He cheerful went where’er the battle raged,
There were his burnished arms of faith engaged.
He who had on his kindred soil proclaimed
Heaven’s brilliant truths, in foreign realms had
	named
What deeds sanctify and what defiles;
And from old ocean’s lonely, storm-swept isles
Had called the wanderers home to Zion’s fold.
And when the pious Christian world had told
The Saints of God ’mong them they ne’er could
	live,
The Wilds proffered what Christians would not
	give.
He who had braved the untamed, pathless West
Felt the great heart pulse in fierce nature’s breast;
And saw a commonwealth invade a land,
Barren and parched, untouched by human hand;
Had seen blessings showered from on high,
impregnate soils, and temper earth and sky,
That bounteous harvests to man’s toil could yield,
And golden plenty deck the well tilled field.
Had seen devouring pests their all invade;
In the dread battle swarming to their aid,

[Column 2]
White-winged angels of hope by legions came,
Thus in his day could many a blessing name.
Wonder of wonders crowned his every hour
Till Zion grew and formed a mighty power.
A restless, longing soul his clay contained
That ever toiled for souls; that ne’er refrained
From his full duty to his fellow man;
To teach, exhort, expound the Gospel plan,
And in the vision of his mind could see
The sin-bound dungeons of eternity;
Where prisoner souls for ages longing wait.
Till works-ordained by God, shall ope’ the gate.
Here in the sacred Temples labored long
To free a portion of that captive throng.
And on each eve, when twilight fades away,
Records the labors of the passing day;
For half a century this faithful man
Fulfilled the details of his daily plan,
And now his Journals form a wondrous store
Of facts, of data and of priceless lore.
Honor the man, so faithful, whom we love.
Who built his hopes far in the realms above,
Whose thoughts and acts and constant efforts tend
To aid the powers above and truth defend.
Who labored up the heights of heavenly fame.
Till on the topmost pinnacle his name
He carved. To us it stands a shining ray
To brighten, cheer and light us on our way.

	[Affectionately dedicated to President Wilford
Woodruff, on the occasion of the commemoration
of his ninety-fifth birthday, by his grandson, Orion
W. Snow.]


[Column 1]
	A BELOVED MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
			(Continued.)
MRS. BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, PRESIDENT
	OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN ALL THE
	WORLD.

	The sketch of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
published in the last two numbers of the
EXPONENT has reached the time of her be-
ing called to preside over the General Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and certainly since that
time her labors have multiplied accordingly.
	Sister Smith took upon herself this added
responsibility as a religious duty, having
been called by the President of the Church.
	The first general conference held in her
administration convened in the spring of
1902, and opened in the assembly hall of
the L. D. S. University Building in this
city, on Monday, April 7, at ten a. m.
	President B. W. Smith made the opening
address of welcome, her first public speech
after her call to the position, although she
had been for years accustomed to public
speaking. She said: “I am happy to meet
with you this morning, glad to see so large
a congregation assembled and I feel we are
engaged in a glorious work. Being crowded
together as we are here in this room, will
perhaps make us feel more the need of a
place of our own and encourage us to bring
our mites together for a building such as
we have been talking of for some time. I
will say there is to be a Memorial Hall to
the Prophet Joseph Smith erected on this
block, and it will be large enough to have
offices for all the general authorities of the
Church, the Relief Society will have their
building with this, as will also the Young
Ladies and Primary associations, and it will
be better for us than any other way. The
Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society
and gave us many instructions how to car-
ry on our meetings and how to treat each

[Column 2]
other. May the Lord bless us in this con-
ference.”
	In the afternoon, services were held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall and there was a
very large attendance when President B.
W. Smith spoke again to the larger con-
gregation, her subject being the Word of
Wisdom and the paying of tithes and dona-
tions and urged them to live their religion.
	The next event of importance was the
birthday anniversary of President Bath-
sheba W. Smith, which marked her four
score years of life, May 3, 1902, and was
celebrated at the historic Bee Hive house in
Salt Lake City. The handsome old par-
lors were filled with guests anxious to
honor the woman and the occasion. Floral
gifts in abundance were showered up-
on her and a fine gold chain was pre-
sented to her by the sisters who were her
associates and co-workers in the Temple.
Sister J. P. M. Farnsworth also presented
her with a very elegant dress and trim-
mings.
	President Joseph F. Smith and his coun-
selors were present and members of their
families, Patriarch John Smith and wife,
Apostles John Henry and Hyrum Smith and
wives, also Presiding Bishop Wm. B. Pres-
ton and wife and many others, including a
number of veteran sisters, leaders and co-
laborers in the Relief Society.
	Sister Smith’s only daughter, with her
husband and family, her married daugh-
ters bringing to this memorable gathering
great grandchildren.
	An impromptu program of speeches, reci-
tations and music was given after the sump-
tuous banquet which all present enjoyed
heartily.
	President Joseph F. Smith presided dur-
ing the exercises and called upon most of
those present to express themselves briefly,
and with music, vocal and instrumental,
there was sufficient variety to make the
time pass pleasantly.
	Looking upon this veteran mother in
Israel crowned with her four score years,
one cannot help feeling time has touched
her very gently; although in reality her life
has not been all a midsummer dream.
	On the 13th of May the New York dele-
gation of women who had been attending
the Federation in California paid a flying
visit to Utah on their return trip and Sister
Smith was expected on account of her posi-
tion to take the principal part as hostess in
assisting to entertain these distinguished
guests of the city of Salt Lake. She proved
herself quite equal to the occasion, going
herself to the station to meet them, accom-
panying them to the recital at the Taber-
nacle and afterwards to Saltair and taking
the lead in receiving the ladies while stand-
ing at a reception given in their honor in
the evening of the same day. Sister Smith
is by virtue of her office as president of the
Relief Society third vice-president of the
great National Council of Women of the
United States, which organization numbers
more than a million and a half of women.
	In July Sister Smith attended the Relief
Society Conference in Davis Stake at Farm-
ington where she addressed the congrega-


[Column 1]
tion at some length at the morning session,
speaking upon the subjects of home and
motherhood, and the principles of tithing,
and reverence for sacred ordinances and the
holy priesthood.
	At noon a large number of guests assem-
bled at the residence of President John W.
Hess and partook of a bounteous repast. Sis-
ter Smith greatly enjoyed this visit with old-
time friends. She also addressed the meet-
ing again in the afternoon, giving many in-
teresting reminiscences of the early days in
the Church.
	It was a very great pleasure to the people
to have this visit from their general presi-
dent and President Hess, in his address at
the close of the meeting alluded to their ac-
quaintance feelingly and expressed himself
in pronounced terms of admiration and
reverence for one who had been so long
associated with the prophets and apostles of
the Latter-day work.
	At the General Conference in October
President B. W. Smith presided and made
quite a lengthy address for her, as she is a
believer in short speeches and practises
what she teaches.
	President Smith said she was delighted
to see so many assembled in conference;
felt she would like to know all the presi-
dents in the Stakes and in the wards, but
could not visit much on account of time,
because her calling was in the Temple; she
had been associated with that work ever
since she was a young girl, as it were, in
this and other Temples. “I want to bear
testimony to you that Joseph Smith intro-
duced the endowment, he taught us these
things and I received the ordinances dur-
ing his lifetime in Nauvoo. I attended
every meeting afterwards as long as he
lived; the same ordinances were given in
the Nauvoo Temple after the death of
Joseph the Prophet. I had the privilege of
administering there and for many years in
the Endowment House in this city and in
other Temples here, and in this Temple
now nearly ten years, and that seems to be
my calling and therefore I cannot visit
very much among the sisters, as this is
more my work than anything else. We
have had a grand conference and many
great and good teachings, and nothing has
struck me more forcibly than the convert-
ing of the Indians. I have great sympathy
for them; I let my only son go to preach
life and salvation to them and he lost his
life; and I believe he is preaching to them
yet in the spirit world.
	“I often think about Moroni, he brought
the Book of Mormon, and if we could see
him would like to have us do a work for his
people. I feel this and I love to hear of
the labor among that people.”	President
Smith told the sisters that forty-two Stakes 
had been visited since last conference; she
wished the sisters to be united, to take care
of the sick and the needy and to attend to
all the duties of the society, and she wished
them to subscribe for the EXPONENT and to
help it along and to read it, she had always
done so, and she asked the blessing of the
Lord upon the Relief Society and all en-
gaged in the good work of redemption.
	In the biography of “Sister Bathsheba,”
as she is so often affectionately designated, it
has been mentioned that she is naturally a
woman of refined tastes, as well as loving
and tender in disposition and character.
	She has always been very fond of flowers
and loved to cultivate them herself, and
her home has invariably been surrounded
with flowers and shrubbery and much of

[Column 2]
the work of planting and tending them has
been done by her own hands.	Soon after
she moved from the Historian’s office, where
she had dwelt so many years, into the
smaller adobe house she now occupies, she
had in her little flower garden seventy var-
eties of flowers; she is often seen now at
the age of four score and more, early in
the morning weeding and watching her
flowers and her little garden at the back
where she has vegetables, such as peas,
beans and lettuce, etc., growing to supply
her own table.
	In her early life she had also a taste for
drawing and painting and has with crude
materials and without lessons painted some
pictures, which show that she inclined to
figure painting, which is said to be the
most difficult of all art.
	Sister Smith had also musical talent both 
instrumental and vocal, was fond of play-
ing on the old-fashioned melodean and the
organ, accompanying herself when singing.
These traits of character show the innate
tendencies of her mind; although, through
her people leaving their home in Virginia
and uniting their interests with the Church,
she has had to endure all sorts of hardships,
instead of having opportunity for what is
termed a higher education.
	And yet, after all, Sister Bathsheba’s life
has been beautiful; a complete love story in
itself. She married young the one man in
all the world she would have chosen, and
with him partook of the blessings of the ever-
lasting Gospel, and there is nothing in this life
to compare with the faith and hope she has of
her future happiness in the world to come
when reunited with her husband and those
whom she loved, children, parents, relatives
and friends, with them she will enjoy all
the privileges and blessings promised to the
faithful who have overcome.
	But Sister Smith has been honored in
this life with her husband, prophets and
apostles, and since the death of that great
and valiant hero and statesman, President
George A. Smith, she has been highly hon-
ored by the priesthood on being chosen to
fill the position of Elect Lady in the Tem-
ple and in the Relief Society. She has also
received many testimonials of love and
affection in speeches from the sisters, and
poems of merit and praise have been ad-
dressed to her by our sainted mother in
Israel, Eliza R. Snow, one of her most in-
timate friends, and later by Ellis R. Shipp,
L. L. Greene Richards, Lydia D. Alder and
also the writer of this sketch, (E B. Wells)
and some day in the future the writer hopes
and expects that Sister Bathsheba W.
Smiths’s gifted granddaughter, Alice, or
her great granddaughter, Mary, or some
of her famous posterity will write a poem
of their heroic ancestor’s life in a complete
“love story” that will be a fitting tribute to
the memory of one so illustrious and so
dearly beloved. Her long and eventful
life contains all the subject matter for an
epic poem worthy the effort of the pen of the
poet, illustrated by the pencil and brush of
the artist. More anon.
						E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Edna Lyall, the popular English novel-
ist who has lately died, was much beloved
for her kindness of heart and many charities.
She is said by the English papers to have
been also "an ardent politician, secretary of
the local Women's Liberal Association, and
a firm supporter of woman suffrage."


ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS.
LYMAN, IDAHO.
	The sixty-first anniversary of the Relief
Society was celebrated in the Lyman
Amusement Hall, March 17. A large con-
gregation assembled and the following pro-
gram was rendered:
	President Anna Galbraith presided and
the singing was conducted by Isaac Smith.
	Opening song, "O my Father," choir.
	Invocation, Marshal Grover.
	Quartette "My Mountain Home so
Dear," Phebe Richens and others.
	Address of welcome by President Annie
Galbraith. She also explained the ten cent
fund.
	A brief sketch of the first organization of
the Relief Society was given by Counselor
Elizabeth Atkinson.
	Graphaphone selection, Annie Olson.
Recitation, H. S. Shirtliff. Remarks,
Thomas Atkinson. Duet, C. Bowen and
Lee Bybee. Select reading, Annie Gal-
braith. Instrumental selection, Celia At-
kinson. Recitation, Dora Robison. Grapho-
phone selection, Annie Olson. Quartette,
Minnie Bybee and others. "Care of the
Wheat" was read by Secretary Marintha
Atkinson. Select reading, Martha Ran-
dall. Remarks, Bishop C. P. Bowen.
Closing number, choir. Benediction, Marsh-
al Grover.
	At the close of the exercises the children
were given a dance, and our celebration
closed with a grand ball in the hall in the
evening. The ten cent fund was promptly
paid.
	We have erected a neat granary since we
were organized one year ago, and every-
thing is progressing favorably with us.
MARINTHA ATKINSON, Sec.
ARCHER, IDAHO.
	The sixty-first anniversary of the organ-
ization of the Relief Society was celebrated
here.
	Program rendered, President Sarah S.
Briggs presiding:
	Singing, "Oh, ye mountains high."
Prayer by Brother Edward Kimber. Sing-
ing, "Ye simple souls who stray."
	Sketch of the organization of the Relief
Society, Mary Ann Briggs. Song, Mary
Ann Briggs, of Oxford. Selection, Brother
John Stacy "The Parson." Essay on Re-
lief Society work, E. A. Lenroot. Song,
Miss Myrtle Young and others, "Beside
the Manger." A few remarks, Brother O.
P. Johanson. A toast, Brother Charles
Briggs, Sr. Music, Miss Esther Briggs.
Recitation, Albert Nelson, "Catching the
Colt." Remarks, David Robison. Recita-
tion, Zilpha Squires, "The Blacksmith's
Story." Song, Charles Burns, "A Gentle-
man Still." Music by Miss Myrtle Young.
Comic recitation, C. L. Johnson, "Broken
Hearted Dutchman." Comic recitation,
Melvin Squires, "The Sleepy Head." Re-
marks, Bishop George Briggs. Singing,
"Great God attend." Benediction, Ed-
ward Kimball.
	Tables were then spread with the boun-
ties of life and every one present enjoyed
the feast, the number being about 140.
The tables were then cleared and the chil-
dren engaged in a good, lively dance until
about 5 o'clock p. m., when the people all
retired home to prepare for the party in the
evening that ended the merry day which is
long to be remembered by old and young.
SARAH S. BRIGGS, Pres. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91


FLORENCE. 
Tis heart-beats count, not distance great, 
Love ne'er was measured by the sea, 
It boundless is, wide as the world, 
More strong than Death 'tween you and me. 
Twill ever bind though all things lose, 
Its chains reach to Eternity, 
Will cling to those that long are gone, 
Who dwell beside the Silent Sea. 
THIRTEEN TODAY. 
Good wishes for thy birthday!
God’s blessings from above 
Rest on thee, May, my baby, 
Till birthdays dawn above, 
Good bye to play and dollies, 
A maiden now art thou; 
O, shun all earthly follies, 
Twine wisdom on thy brow. 
At Jesus’ feet sit lowly, 
How blessed there to be !—
So graceful droops the lily—
O, love, so may’st thou be. 
LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column One]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 
(Continued.) 
At the ninth Relief Society May 26th the 
Prophet read the 14th chapter of Ezekiel, 
and said the Lord had declared by that 
prophet that the people should each one
stand for themselves and depend on no 
man or men; in the state of corruption in 
the Jewish Church, the righteous persons 
could only deliver their own souls. Ap-
plied it to the present condition of the 
Church of Latter-day Saints. If the people 
depart from the Lord they must fall, they 
were depending on the Prophet, hence 
there was darkness in their minds. 
He had two things to recommend to the 
society. Be guarded in your speech, no 
organized body can exist without giving 
heed to this caution. All organized bodies 
have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and 
difficulties, the object is to make those not 
so good equal with the good, and ever hold 
the keys of power which will influence to 
virtue and goodness. 
When you chasten and reprove, never 
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and 
the wrath of God will be turned away. God
designs, to save the people out of their sins. 
Jesus said "Ye shall do the works which 
ye see me do," these are the grand key-
words for the society to act upon. 
The tenth meeting was addressed by 
Bishop N. K. Whitney, President Joseph 
Smith being present. 
"In the beginning God created man, 
male and female, and he bestowed upon
man certain blessings peculiar to a man of 
God, of which woman partook, so that 
without woman all things cannot be re-
stored to the earth. It takes all to fully re-
tore the Priesthood. This perfect restora-
tion is the intent of the society, that by hu-
mility and faithfulness in connection with 
their husbands, they may be found worthy. 
"I rejoice while contemplating the bless-
ings which will be poured out on the heads 
of the Saints. God has many precious 
things to bestow, even to our astonishment, 
if we are faithful. I say again I rejoice in 
the prospect before us. By striving for 
union one with another, we may be pre-
pared for the day of choosing. Man will not 
choose, but God will say who is and who is 
not worthy. We must humble ourselves and 
live by the rule given for practice—we

[Column Two]
must lose sight of vain things and remem-
ber that the eye of God is upon us. If we 
are striving to do right, although we may 
err in judgement many times, yet we are 
justified in the sight of God if we do the 
best we can according to our judgment. We 
cannot go astray if we will strive with the 
energy of our souls to do right. I rejoice 
that God has given us means whereby we 
may receive intelligence and instruction. It 
is our privilege to stand in an attitude to 
get testimony for ourselves. It is as much 
our privilege as that of the ancient Saints
We must 'prove all things and hold fast 
that which is good.' It is our duty to 
humble ourselves, it is our most reason-
able service to do it. We must proceed to 
receive grace for grace, light and intel-
ligence. If we have power—intelligence is
power. I desire all evil things may be 
done away. But as far as possible throw 
the vail of charity over failings. When we 
see one out of the way, we ought in hu-
mility to go to and counsel—and strive to 
bring back those who have strayed. We 
must do as we would wish to be done by, 
this is the way to win souls and bring them 
back. Far be it from me to harbor iniquity 
and outbreaking sins. We may have dif-
ferent views of things Still there is some 
criterion which all may come to and by 
bringing our minds and will into subjection 
to the law of the Lord may come to a 
unity. 
"It is impossible while finding fault with 
one another to be united. Would to God I 
had power to bridle my tongue, I am too 
apt to make remarks; have decided to set a 
double watch on my tongue and not offend 
one of the little ones. I wish nobody harm; 
wish it were in my power to save all within 
the reach of mercy. Some may say I have 
not been so faithful as I might have been, 
or my voice would oftener have been heard 
in the congregations of the Saints, but I 
rejoice in God that all is as well with me as 
it is. I assure you there are great bless-
ings before you that would astonish you if 
you could behold them. I came here for 
the purpose of listening to President Smith 
and being instructed by him. 
"I wish to encourage you to persevere in
the ways of righteousness. There are great
blessings to be conferred as soon as our 
hearts are prepared to receive them. You 
have my heart's desire for the prosperity of 
the society and I pray my Heavenly Father 
that you may go on and glorify your 
position." 
Eleventh meeting, June 9th, President 
J. Smith. "It grieves me that there is no 
fuller fellowship, if one member suffers all 
feel it, by union of feeling we obtain 
power with God. Christ said He came to 
call sinners to repentance and to save them, 
Christ was condemned by the righteous 
Jews because he took sinners into His 
society, He took them upon the principle
that they repent. Nothing is so calculated 
to lead people to forsake sin, as to take 
them by the hand and watch over them 
with tenderness. The nearer we get to our 
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed 
to look with compassion on perishing souls. 
I say to this society if you would have God 
have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other. How mild the Savior dealt with 
Peter, saying, 'when thou art converted, 
strengthen thy brethren.' At another time 
He said to him, 'Lovest thou me? Feed 
my sheep.' This society is not only to re-
lieve the poor, but to save souls." 

[Column Three]
Sixteenth meeting held in the Grove 
August 31st, 1842. After relating recent 
difficulties he had encountered while hunted 
by his enemies, the Prophet said: "The Re-
lief Society has taken an active part in my 
welfare, in petitioning the Governor in my 
behalf. These measures were necessary, 
and your influence helped to bring about 
my redemption from the hands of my ene-
mies I have come here to bless you.
The society has done well, their principles 
are to practice holiness. God loves you
and your prayers shall avail much, do not 
fail to let them ascend in my behalf. The 
enemy will never get weary. I expect he 
will array everything against me, expect a 
tremendous warfare. He that will war the 
Christian warfare will have all the powers 
of darkness continually arrayed against 
him." 
A few things had been manifested to him 
during his absence respecting baptism for 
the dead, which he would communicate
next Sabbath if nothing should occur to 
prevent it. He then offered a fervent prayer 
to God in behalf of the society. After the 
transaction of some business in the adjust-
ment of which President Smith offered 
counsel, he said he had one more remark to 
make respecting baptism for the dead, 
which must suffice for the present and un-
til he had the opportunity to present the 
subject at greater length. 
All persons baptized for the dead must 
have a recorder present that they may be 
an eye-witness to testify of it. It will be 
necessary in the Great Council that these 
things be testified of. It should be at-
tended to from this time. If there is any 
lack it may be at the expense of our 
friends." 
This was the last Relief Society meeting 
that President Joseph Smith attended. 
During the two years administration of 
President Emma Smith and her associates, 
visiting sisters were appointed to search 
out the needy, to find work for the able-
bodied, to receive contributions and to re-
port conditions. 
The labors of the society were extended 
to the four wards of the city.


ITEMS FROM NIBLEY, OREGON.
NIBLEY, OREGON, May, 1903.
Dear Sister:
	It has been a long time since I wrote to 
the EXPONENT, but I feel it my duty to 
write and let you know of our society in
Nibley away off in Eastern Oregon. We 
have a good Relief Society and have about 
twenty names enrolled. 
	We have a new town just started here 
with about thirty-five families The town
is building up fast, as it has been settled 
about two years. There are about twenty 
new buildings besides the old ones. Nib-
ley is situated on a sandridge about four-
teen miles east of La Grande City, and about 
five miles west of Cove. All kinds of fruit 
can be raised here and it is also a good 
country for grain.
	COM.


Dr. Helene Stocker is the editor and
Fraulein Carmen Teja the assistant editor 
of a new paper for women, Frauen Rund-
schau, published at Leipzig, Germany.	Its
aim is to promote the movement for equal
rights. Dr. Anita Augspurg and Dr. Kathe
Schirmacher are among the contributors.


92
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. Editor and Publisher.
	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1903


THIRTY-ONE VOLUMES.
	Our readers are probably aware that the
May number of this paper completes the
31st volume of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
We hope and trust that the sisters who take it
are sufficiently interested to renew subscrip-
tions and also to urge their friends and, neigh-
bors who have not taken it in the past, to
come forward and subscribe that the circu-
lation may be increased so that we may be
able to publish more numbers during the
year. It seems useless to repeat what has
been said so often in regard to the teaching
and instruction for the sisters contained in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the reasons
why it is so essential that it should be
patronized. It is true that on almost every
subject pertaining to woman’s work one
may find such items as will be helpful in
showing the advancement along particular
lines of work, and the organizations in the
several Stakes of Zion and in missions are
given representation in conferences, meet-
ing s and public gatherings. It is scarcely
possible to imagine what the sisters would
have done had we not had this little paper
to read and refer to for those important mat-
ters that have occurred here and elsewhere,
THE EXPONENT sets forth the principles
of our faith in ways that make people in-
quire, and, in fact, we sisters represent our-
selves more, and better than we could in
any other way. Besides it is a record of
our work and of the Relief Society as a
whole, and its principal leaders and most
efficient workers. It gives us points of in-
terest concerning other women in our own
and other lands, what progress they are
making along similar lines, and in various
ways is a stimulus and encouragement to
all who take it.
	What the EXPONENT has done for the
women of the Church and of Utah, in the
thirty-one years in various ways cannot be
estimated, and it is ardently hoped that in
the coming year there may be such an
impetus given financially to the paper, that
it may be issued later in magazine form
which will commend it more acceptably to
the library and the home.


[column 1]
	IN MEMORIAM. 
ELIZABETH H. GODDARD.

	It is painful to record the death of a dear
friend at all times, but when one has lived
out the full time and more, one cannot
mourn as one does when life is in its morn-
ing or noonday season. Sister Elizabeth H.
Goddard, who departed this life Sunday
morning, April 12, 1903, had lived more
than four score years.

[column 2]
	Sister Goddard was born March 17, 1817,
in Leicester, England; her parents were
John and Elizabeth Harrison, people of
ample means and of good family. She re-
ceived an excellent education for a young
woman of those days. Miss Harrison was
married September 10, 1839, to George
Goddard in her native city, where they
both afterwards were baptized members of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.
	Brother and Sister Goddard left their
native land to come to Utah in 1852, and
encountered many hardships and difficulties
enroute, principally on account of sickness.
They had quite a family of young children,
George, Joseph, Eliza, Mary, Annie, Betsy,
Henry, Cornelius. Annie had died in Eng-
land, the others were with the parents and
another, Edward, was born on the ship and
buried at sea. Cornelius was buried at
Memphis, Tenn , Betsy at St. Louis and
George and Harriet on the plains. After
reaching Salt Lake, a son, Alma, born here
died when six months old. Another son
John Harrison, was drowned in the Jordan
river when sixteen years of age. Sister God-
dard had two other sons born in Salt Lake,
Hyrum Harrison and Brigham H., both
living in Ogden, Utah, also her eldest son,
Joseph; her daughter Eliza died a few years
ago, leaving a large family. Her daughter
Mary resides in St. George, and has for
many years past, but was with her mother
during her illness and watched with loving
and tender care many months while she
passed through the severe illness that closed
at last in a serene and peaceful sleep.
	Sister Goddard was the mother of thir-
teen children and left a numerous posterity
of which she may be justly proud, as all
have kept the faith for which she endured
so much. Of her descendants there are
over fifty children, grandchildren and great
grandchildren. Of Sister Goddard’s life we
can say, she was faithful, true, patient and
self-sacrificing, devoted to her husband
and children, yet fulfilling many other
duties. She was a Saint in the strict sense
of the word. A teacher in the Sunday
School for more than forty years, also a
member of the Old Folks committee from
the very first, secretary in the Relief Soci-
ety in the 13th ward of Salt Lake City from
the time of its organization by Bishop
Woolley, April 18, 1868, until her failing
health compelled her to give it up about
three years ago, the record all in her own
hand writing is a model of neatness and
beautiful penmanship.
	Here was a character to be admired and
emulated, not only by her own family but
by all the daughters of Zion. She was most
hospitable in her home and fond of enter-
taining her friends. We recall many de-
lightful parties given by Brother and Sister
Goddard in former days, when President
Brigham Young and his counselors, Eliza
R. Snow and other distinguished men and
women were present.
	The funeral of Sister Goddard was held
in the assembly hall of the 13th ward,
Tuesday, April 14, and was attended by
many of her dear, old friends, Bishop
Nelson A. Empey presiding. The speakers
were all old time friends of herself and her
husband, and all testified to her beautiful
and exemplary life.

“Good-bye, good-bye, with latest breath we say it,
	A legacy of Hope, and faith, and love,
Parting must come, we cannot long delay if,
	But one in Him we hope to meet above,
	If God be with us ”


EDITORIAL NOTES.
President Roosevelt’s visit to Utah is a
pleasurable anticipation and great prepara-
tions are in progress to welcome the distin-
guished guest of honor to the far-famed
City of the Saints. He is expected to ar-
rive May 29, and will remain over only a
few hours. The President has consented
to make an address in the big Tabernacle
which will give several thousand people a
chance to see and hear this famous orator
and president of the great Republic of the
United States.
The Kensington given on Thursday
May 14th by Mrs. John McDonald in her
elegant home in this city was a very enjoy-
able party. The rooms were handsomely
decorated and the little tables on which re-
freshments were served all had vases of
fragrant blossoms for the delight of the
guests. A happy afternoon was passed,
Brother McDonald and others of the family
assisting the hostess, who spares no pains
to make her friends have a good time and
“while away dull care” for a little season
at least. On this occasion there was music
and songs and games with prizes (for those
who would play) and the enthusiasm caused
considerable mirth. The McDonald house
is large, the rooms spacious and very ele-
gant, and filled with paintings, bric-a-
brac and handsome furnishings. It is a
favorite house in which many of their dear
friends have been in the habit of meeting
for years past. It was certainly a very
enjoyable gathering and the fifty invited
ladies all seemed to enjoy it very much.


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	(Continued.)

	Afternoon session, President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. On the stand were
President Joseph F. Smith and the General
officers, members of the General Board and
presidents of Stakes.
	Meeting opened with singing, “Now let
us rejoice in the day of salvation,” Prof.
C. J. Thomas leading. Prayer by Dr. Ro-
mania B. Pratt. Choir sang an anthem.

ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH.

	My sisters of the Relief Society, it gives
me pleasure to have the privilege of meet-
ing with you. If I show myself unfamiliar
with the details of the conference, you need
not be surprised for I have been very busy.
Yet at the request of Aunt Bathsheba, I
have broken loose from the duties that flood
us just at conference time to speak to you;
but I shall have to tear myself away soon
to go on with those duties. I am informed
that this audience is composed mostly of
officers of the Relief Society. I believe
you, therefore, to be a body of very influen-
tial women; women upon whom great re-
sponsibilities devolve. I esteem this society,
organized as it was by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, one of the most important auxiliary
organizations of the Church. There are
matters of vital moment that come before
you as mothers and daughters. Your wis-
dom and your influence for good should
extend through the nation and from conti-
nent to continent. And your power in the
organizations which you control must ex-
tend through the Church, therefore your
well directed efforts must affect the people
of God through the earth. Not the least of
your duties is your charity to the poor, the
sick, the afflicted and the fatherless. All


[column 1]
these come under your supervision; all
these should be looked after carefully by
the society.
	It is your duty to assist all you can in
giving to the daughters of Zion a proper
education, to assist the mothers to perform
wisely their duties in that capacity, to build
up the home on the principles of purity and
righteousness; the family being an organi-
zation which should be established on
eternal principles, destined to exist through-
out all eternity. The labors of the Relief So-
ciety largely pertain to the material things of
life, to the temporal necessities of the people
of the Church, and yet the influence of
their efforts may reach far beyond mortal-
ity, as they affect the spiritual growth as
well as the temporal needs. For instance,
here is a family very deficient in under-
standing relative to the proper relations
that should exist between husband and
wife, between parents and children, and be-
tween the children themselves, who may be
vastly benefitted by timely suggestions from
the wiser and more intelligent members of
the Relief Society. Their mistakes may be
corrected, their spiritual necessities minis-
tered to and the whole course of their lives
changed from a condition of ignorance, lack
of faith and misunderstanding to correct
habits and pure lives. They may assist the
wife to be wise and prudent, the mother
how to manage her children and her house-
hold affairs, that each may respect the
other in his or her place, and the parents
may have due regard for the obligations
they owe to their children, and the children
to appreciate the sacred ties that bind them
to their parents and each other in the home;
and not only so, but in the succeeding and
extended relations of life. You have this
privilege and it is a part of your duty to
look after the fatherless and helpless, not
only as to their temporal wants, but with
direct reference to their mental and spiritual
development Indeed you should be moth-
ers to the motherless and helpers to the
helpless. In all these good works the
Church stands at your back to help you.
Men who possess means, if properly ap-
proached will be liberal in helping you to
carry on your glorious work. Always re-
member the sick and the poor who are
worthy of your sympathy.
	It was my privilege not long ago to visit
one of our settlements in an outlying Stake
of Zion where a great deal of sickness pre-
vailed at the time, and although we had
been traveling many days and we reached
the settlement late in the evening, we were
solicited to go round with the president to
visit some of the sick. We found a poor
sister prostrate upon a bed of sickness, in a
very critical condition. Her poor husband
sat by her bedside almost distracted at the
dreadful illness of his wife who was the
mother of a number of little children clus-
tered around. The family seemed to be in
a very destitute condition. A nice matron-
ly woman soon came into the house, carry-
ing with her a basket containing nourishing
food and some delicacies for the use of the
afflicted family. On inquiry we learned
that she had been detailed by the Relief
Society of the ward to watch over and ad-
minister to the sick woman through the
night. She was there prepared to look
after the little children, to see that they
were properly washed and fed and put to
bed; to tidy up the house and make every-
thing as comfortable as possible for the
afflicted woman and her family. We also
learned that another good sister would be

[column 2]
detailed to relieve her the following day;
and so on, from day to day, this poor,
afflicted family received the kindest care
and attention from the sisters of the Relief
Society until health should again come to
relieve the sick one from her sufferings.
We also learned that this Relief Society was 
so organized and disciplined that all the
sick in the settlement were receiving simi-
lar attention and ministrations for their
comfort and relief. Never before had I
seen so clearly exemplified the utility and
beauty of this grand organization as in the
example we here witnessed, and I thought
what a gracious thing it was that the Lord
inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith to estab-
lish such an organization in the Church.
Who can tell the extent of the good that
may be accomplished in the midst of the
Saints by a well organized and thoroughly
disciplined Relief Society, not only in a
temporal sense but also from a spiritual
point of view. The work is charitable and
there is perhaps no more potent or far
reaching influence than well-directed chari-
ty, to win the confidence and love of our
fellow creatures. And having won their
confidence through simple deeds of mercy
the door is opened to win and lead their
souls to higher planes of faith and spiritual
excellence; and, after all the spiritual part
is of greater worth than the mere temporal.
It is good to be physically and men-
tally strong, to be possessed of perfect
health and sufficient of temporal things
to make our lives pleasant and agree-
able, but it is still better to possess pure in-
telligence which comprehends a knowlege
of the truth as God has revealed it to man.
In the long run it is better to starve or
even to perish for the want of temporal
food than to be impoverished and perish
for the lack of intellectual and spiritual
knowledge which are essential to secure the
gift of eternal life which is the greatest gift
of God. To possess a knowledge of the
principles of eternal truth is more to me
than food or raiment. Yet we want both
the temporal and the spiritual food and God
has so ordained that both of these are with-
in easy reach of all mankind, provided they
will observe His laws and live consistent
therewith. It is the privilege of the work-
er in the Relief Society to take the little
ones from their infancy and help to teach
them to be honest and virtuous, to believe
in God the Eternal Father, and in the di-
vine mission of His Son; and to instruct
the mothers and to teach them to bring up
their little ones in this way. This is an
important duty, even more so, if possible,
than simply ministering to the temporal
wants which devolves upon you, my sisters.
Indeed there is no limit to your privileges
or prerogative to do good in every way and
everywhere that it may lay in your power.
We have numerous auxiliary organizations
in the Church which have been organized
by authority. We have our Relief Society,
our Young Men’s and Young Ladies Mu-
tual Improvement Associations, our Pri-
mary Associations, our Sabbath Schools and
our Religious Classes.
	All these have been devised by the in-
spiration of the Almighty and the wis-
dom of his servants, as helps in the gov-
ernment of the Church, subject always
to the Authority of the Holy Priesthood.
If these various organizations, together with
the standard organizations of the Priesthood,
were all to work in harmony and do their
whole duty to the best of their ability and
in accordance with the promptings of the

[column 3]
spirit of the Lord, what a mighty power
they would be in forwarding the work and
purposes of God in the earth. So far as we
now know we have no need to multiply or-
ganizations and associations in the Church.
All these seem to be necessary and occupy
fields peculiarly adapted to and requiring
their efforts. These seem to be sufficient
to cover the whole ground and they should
possess the ability, the qualifications and
power to manage all subjects and to deal
with all questions that may arise, or that
now exist, affecting the well being happi-
ness and prosperity of the inhabitants of the
world, and more especially all members of
the Church.
	Foremost among all these auxiliary or-
ganizations should be found our Relief So-
ciety which was organized by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. You were appointed by
the Lord and should take the lead and sup-
ervision of all questions coming within the
sphere of your calling. Such organizations
as mothers’ classes, schools of instruction
in domestic science, family training and
home life, and similar questions should legi-
timately come uuder your supervision, and
you should direct them. You are big
enough, have power enough, and I hope
will find sufficient backing to do all these
things. God bless you is my prayer.
Amen.
	Congregation sang “We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet” as President Smith left
the building
	Apostle John Henry Smith next ad-
dressed the meeting. “This is a remarkable
gathering of sisters coming from the many
branches of the Church to aid in the up-
lifting and benefiting of the people. There
is no field of labor in the world that pro-
duces better effect, than the field assigned to
woman; she who fulfills her part, is just as
sure to receive her crown of glory when
life’s labor is done as she is to have fulfilled
her duties. The words that have fal-
len from the lips of the man who has just
spoken to you are precious. It is his
privilege to direct us and I was pleased to
listen to him on the question of multiplica-
tion of organizations. These conferences
are for the sisters and I hesitate to break
in upon them; as husbands and wives we
should talk of things concerning ourselves,
and in these meetings the sisters may have
matters to discuss that would embarrass
them if the brethren were present, but in
conferences like this and in Stake confer-
ences they doubtless invite the brethren to
be present. The development of the work
is a grand one and the wonderful effects
that flow, the aid given and the care of the
sick and attendance upon them broadens
our comprehension and the more thorough
the training in these things is the better
for every one of us. The efforts of the
nurses’ class is commendable and it is well
for them to take advantage of the exper-
ence of those different to their own. When
you go to a bedside where a nurse is in at-
tendance learn from her. The same is true
of your mother for the control of her fam-
ly. While all of us should say our mother
was the best in the world yet some are
lacking in government, some are not good
housekeepers, they who are most skilled
must bring their knowledge before others,
there is no gift or grace that goes to the re-
finement and happiness of the home that I
would not like my wife or daughter to pos-
ses. As the mother is engaged in the
adornment of her home and beautifying her
surroundings and uplifting the minds of


[Column 1]
her children sometimes the idle girls and
boys are doing the mischief; the untrue,
wives, the wicked husbands are the idlers;
the busy men, the busy women are not the
wicked ones; no greater blessing can come
to any man than that his hand and mind
may be employed in doing good.
	“The evils are enacted by those who have
nothing to do; when the Almighty gave
the command ‘by the sweat of his brow he
should earn his bread,’ etc., He gave the
boon of boons. Work is the safeguard of
mankind, there are conditions when the
mortal is helpless but they can be relieved.
You mothers, as you build in your homes,
so will your sons and daughters build in
their lives, the busy father and mother will
have the industrious boy and girl, your
work will build up the spiritual and tem-
poral as well. In helping the poor do not
fail to bring them to help themselves. I
thank you for an invitation to be here, I
believe you should be permitted to listen to
and counsel with each other, and I hope
you impart to your children the principles
of the Gospel and that every home where
you preside may be a home of peace and
that you will take advantage of each others’
knowledge as far as possible; may your
children as they turn in life say that within
their childhood’s home above all other
places they had joy and love. That you
may have success in your field of labor to
guard you in your every effort for good is 
my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.”
	Sister E. B. Wells expressed her happi-
ness in being at home again after the jour-
ney to New Orleans, Chicago and other
cities, where she with Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams and Ruth M. Fox, had been upon
a mission; she was proud of the assembly of
women and would love to show this gather-
ing of our sisters to the women of the
world. She felt they had been miraculous-
ly preserved in passing through the high
water of the Mississippi floods on the R. R.
tracks. Told of the Relief Society meeting
in Chicago, and of the National Council in
New Orleans, that represents more than a
million and a half of women. Made other
remarks and closed by saying that she
hoped the sisters would not forget the in-
structions given by President Joseph F.
Smith, but would take his words to their
homes and circulate them among their
neighbors and friends.
	President B. W. Smith spoke a few words
about the Prophet Joseph Smith and re-
quested Clarissa S. Williams to read a
paragraph she had copied from the Nauvoo
Relief Society record.
	Sister C. S. Williams spoke of the re-
markable preservation of their lives to
which Sister Wells had referred and also of
the great body of women represented in the
Council and realized they were doing good,
but knew not the truth and were not striv-
ing as we were for the good of their eternal
lives. Spoke of having attended the Y. L.
Association in Chicago and of her surprise to
meet these young girls born in the world,
studying and working and asking questions
about our principles and trying to get intelli-
gence concerning the Gospel.
	President B. W. Smith was glad to see
all present, hoped they would bear in mind
the good counsel given at this conference. 
	Sister Maggie C. Hull sang in her sweetest
voice, “Only Remembered for What We
Have Done.”
	Conference adjourned for six months.

[Column 2]
Benediction by Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
	MOTHERS’ WORK.
	WEBER STAKE.

First Talk. The Infant. Its First Year:

	(a) The bath. Different modes of
bathing the young child. Cleanliness
next to Godliness, etc.
	(b) Dress. For comfort, regardless
of style.
	(c) Food. Natural or artificial; reg-
ularity.
	(d) Sleep. Sleep and grow. Let
nature wake the baby.
	(e) Creeping. The benefits.
	(f) Teething.
	(g) Education begins at the cradle,
whether we will or not.

Second Talk. Mother's Medicine Chest:

	(a) No drugs should be given to
baby.
	(b) The chest. Its contents.
	(c) Simple remedies. Nature and
use.
	(d) Teething disorders, colds, croup,
burns, canker, punctured wounds.
	(e) Prevention is better than cure.
To be forewarned is to be forearmed,
etc.

Third Talk. The Child from Second Year
	to School:

	(a) Its growth physically. Light
and sunshine as necessary to the
growth of a child as to a plant.
	(b) Its growth morally. The power
of singing. Prayer and pleasant eve-
ning talks. Stories true to life.
	(c) Obedience and order. The first
laws of heaven.
	(d) Respect for age and places of
worship.
	(e) Sabbath for little children. Plato
says “The most important part of edu-
cation is in the nursery.”

Fourth Month Talk. Child's Duty at Home
	and at School.

	(a) Why do children lie, steal, pro-
fane, or use slang ?
	(b) Methods of counteracting evils.
	(c) Late hours: effects. Children
on streets or away from home at
nights.
	(d) Respect for the rights of others,
public property, etc.
	(e) Teach household duties to girls
and boys. Compare cultivation of
childhood to the cultivation of flowers.
The neglect to the neglected flower
bed.

Fifth Month Talk. Youth and Maiden:

	(a) Health of the young girl. Spec-
ial care now required.
	(b) Need of mother's sympathy.
Gain their confidence and keep their 
secrets.
	(c) Special religious training in
order that the boy may honor and de-
sire to hold different degrees of Priest-
hood.
	(d) Selecting companions and books
suitable for them.
	(e) Special training in cooking,

[column 2]
sewing and general housework.
	(f) Courting and marrying in the
Church, so as not to be deprived of
blessings in the Gospel. Incidents of
healing by laying on of hands.
	(g) The importance of the Priest-
hood for our sons.

Sixth Month Talk. Wife and Mother. As
	Mothers in Israel What Manner of
	Women Should They Be?

	(a) Sound mind and sound body.
	(b) Good housekeepers.
	(c) Deportment to husbands and
children.
	(d) Exemplary lives, as Caesar,
said, above reproach. Studying the
principles of the Gosoel. Following
its teachings will give her the inspir-
ation needed for her varied duties as
wife and mother.

	Praying God to bless each and all of our
sisters, and help them to fill the measure
of their creation in an acceptable manner
before Him, is the humble prayer of,
	Your sisters,
	C. E. DRIVER,
	R. E. MOENCH,
	Committee.
	J. S. RICHARDS,
	President.
	H. B. BROWN,
	E. S. SHURTLIFF,
	Counselors.

	MILLARD STAKE.

Lecture 1st.—Motherhood:

	A being breathing thoughtful breath,
	A traveler between life and death,
	The reason firm, the temperate will,
	Endurance, foresight, strength and skill;
	A perfect woman nobly planned,
	To warn, to comfort and command.

The great mission of woman predestined.
Nature and Character study.
Natural intuitions and environments.
Cultivate the good and evil will vanish.
Faith, hope and charity the only true
	guides.
Improve the present by studying the
	past.
“While it is good to walk among the liv-
	ing, it is good to live with the wise,
	great, good dead.”

Lecture 2nd.—Prenatal Influence.

What influences the first of life be-
	comes a part of its being.
As ye sow, so shall ye reap.
Seek wisdom, self-control, happy dispo-
	sition.
Physical exercise, home duties; moral
	and mental development.
Study the life of Christ, “The fear of
	God is the beginning of wisdom.”

Lecture 3rd.—Relationship of Mother and
	Child:

“Of all earth’s affections, pure, undefiled,
Is the love and devotion of an innocent child.”

The child a sacred trust or gift from God.
The purest love exists between mother
	and child.
Innate principles the governing influ-
	ence.
The tenderest influence felt in the one
	word—mother.


[Column 1]
Mother’s influence in its daily life.
 
	Speak gently, it is better far, 
		To rule by love than fear, 
	Speak gently, let no harsh word mar,
		The good we might do here.

Lecture 4th.—Growth and Development of
	the Child:

	“As the twig is bent the tree inclines.”
	Teach the importance of self-activity,
		self-reliance, self-control as essential
		elements to proper growth.
	Free, outdoor exercise, proper food,
		cleanliness, orderly habits build up a
		healthy body.
	Reverence for parents and the Deity are
		spiritual needs.
	The Lord’s prayer, etc.

“Let love through all your actions run,
Yet over-indulgence spoils the little one,
By love and firmness with wisdom wrought.
Many a soul from sin is brought.”

Lecture 5th.—Boyhood and Girlhood:

	Train up a child in the way he should
		go and when he is old he will not de-
		part from it.
	To build up a healthy body: outdoor ex-
		ercise, physical training, purity of
		thought and action.
	Obedience to the Gospel. Teach the
		Articles of Faith.
	Teach that there is good in every one,
		and that it must grow from the inside
		not without until a man is all full of
		goodness.
	Teach the relation between the desire to
		be good and the practice of being
		good.

	“The good we do in life,
		Springs from an inward grace:
	The mission of evil is strife,
		Each good act to displace;
	To build a character firm and strong,
		Encourage the right and denounce
	the wrong.”

Lecture 6th.—Development of the Youth:

	Seek wisdom from good books. Emulate
		the acts of wise men.
	Cultivate pure thoughts and actions.
	The mind should control natural desires.
	Growth obtained through self activity.
	Scientific truth’s bring us to a higher
		plane of civilization.
	The life of Christ the embodiment of all
		that is desired to make us perfect even
		as He is perfect.
	“The glory of God is intelligence,”
		should be an incentive to all who desire
		to become like Him

Lecture 7th.—Marriage and Sacred Coven-
	ants:

	“Likings may come and pass away
	’Tis love that remains to our latest day,
	Our Heavenward way is holy love,
	And will be our bliss with saints above.”

	Love is an attribute of God implanted for
		a pure and holy purpose.
	Marriage is a divine covenant instituted
		for the propagation of the human race.
	The life of Christ embodies all the vir-
		tues.
	Our obligations to God and our sacred
		trust.
	He is richest who enriches mankind.

Lecture 8th.— Wife and Mother:

	To be a true wife and mother be true to
		your covenants.
	Peace, love and contentment come from
		within and make our environments.

[Column 2]
	Self-control and sacrifices are enobling.
	Poverty no restriction to a happy home.
	Study the lives of great and noble minds.
	Prayer is the key to success.
	Impart of our substance if we would be
		truly great.
	“It is better to give than to receive.”

Lecture 9th.—A Mother’s Love and In-
	fluence:

	A mothers love soothes the aches and
		ills of life.
	Every mother should be imbued with the
		love of God.
	Its imprints may be traced to the unborn.
	Great men attribute achievements to
		mother’s influence.
	Strength of mind imparts will power,
		and crushes the evil that would under-
		mine our best endeavors.
	“The hand that rocks the cradle rules
		the world.”

Lecture 10th.—Diseases of Women and
	Children:

	Every mother should study the laws of
		health.
	The obligations of wife and mother can-
		not be discharged without some knowl-
		edge of hygiene and medicine.
	Study the nature of diseases and sim-
		ple remedies.
	Healing by prayer and faith. 
	Word of Wisdom.

Lecture 11th.— Value of Moments:

	The mind a receptacle or storehouse and
		is never idle.
	It advances or retrogrades.
	Each day adds its might for good of
		evil.
	Youth is the golden age.
	Improve the present. There is no to-
		morrow.
	Men cannot be saved in ignorance.
	The glory of God is intelligence.
	Seek ye out of good books words of wis-
		dom
	A moment lost cannot be recalled.

“Count that day lost whose low descending sun,
Views from thy hands no worthy action done.”

Lecture 12th.— Woman’s Sphere:

	Woman know thyself and to thyself be
		true.
	Mental and physical organization.
	Moral and social condition.
	Her influence upon society,
	Her natural religious inclinations.
	Quick perception and capablities.
	Susceptible to influence but conscientious
		of wrong doing.
	Progress in science and literature.
	The woman of the 20th century.

	“Oh not for wealth, fame or power.
		Have we poor mortals striven.
	But even as the growing flower
		To make of earth a heaven.
	And in her garden of the sun,
		Heaven’s brightest rose shall bloom,
	For woman’s best is just begun,
		Her advent yet to come.”
			ELIZABETH F. YATES,
			LORINDA E. THOMPSON,
			ANGELINE W. HINCKLEY,
							Committee.
			DELILAH K. OLSEN,
						Chairman.
	Millard Stake Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


OBITUARIES..
MARY HOFFMAN ELMER.

A Token of Love and Remembrance.
	We, the members of the Relief Society of the
First Ward of Payson, desire to show our respect
for our departed sister.
	Sister Mary Hoffman Elmer was born April 16, 
1827, in Ohio. Was married to Hyrum Elmer
June 9, 1845, and was baptized at Council Bluffs,
Iowa, 1848. She left us for another sphere, De-
cember 10, 1902.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit in his 
wisdom to call from among us one of our colabor- 
ers, we deeply feel her loss. She was a model 
wife and mother and endeared herself to those 
around her by her kindness in times of sickness. 
She possessed an affable, pleasant nature and 
won the esteem and good feelings of her many ac-
quaintances, She leaves a loving husband, who 
mourns her departure, and eight children, besides 
several motherless children whom she cared for in 
childhood, who all feel the loss of a loving mother, 
until that joyful time when they will meet again 
and enjoy her society in a state far more happy 
and glorified. Therefore be it 
	Resolved, that we, her colaborers in the great 
work of love, express our appreciation of her ex- 
ample. 
	That we emulate her noble traits of character, 
of faith and charity and her devotion to her re- 
ligion.
	That we insert a copy of these resolutions in our 
records, that one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT for publication and that one be presented to 
the bereaved family. 
SUSANNA PICKERING,
MARTHA BATES,
FANNY Z. SIMMONS,
Committee.

SARAH ANN REESE.
It becomes our painful duty to record the death 
of our beloved sister, Sarah Ann Reese. 
	She was born in London, England, April 21, 
1839, joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- 
day Saints in the year 1868, and died November 
7, 1902, being 63 years, 6 months and 16 days old. 
She was married to James Reese in 1870; was the 
mother of eight children, six living and two dead, 
also twelve grandchildren. Her husband pre- 
ceded her to the spirit world. 
	She was a faithful and active worker in the Re- 
lief Society. She labored as a teacher for eight 
years, also labored as president of the industrial 
class for a number of years, until she was pre- 
vented by sickness from which she suffered long. 
Yet she was always hopeful and patient, trusting 
in the Lord and thankful for his goodness to her. 
She was always ready to help the poor and the
needy. 

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Resolved, that we, her colaborers in the great 
work of love, mourn her loss as a wise and faith- 
ful worker in the cause of truth. 
	That we express our sincere sympathy for her 
bereaved family, and pray our Heavenly Father 
that His Holy Spirit may comfort them in their 
loss, that they may realize she has gone to enjoy a 
rest prepared for the faithful, and will come forth 
in the glorious resurrection of the just. 
	That a copy of these resolutions be placed on 
the record of the Payson First Ward Relief Soci- 
ety, one be sent to the family and one sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

SUSANNA PICKERING,
JOSEPHINE PETERSEN,
JANE WORSENCROFT,
Committee.


LIEE, MARRIAGE AND DEATH.

SISTER MABEL CLAIR JOHNSON,

or “May” Johnson, as she was better known.

She was born September 23, 1876, at
Kanosh, Millard Co., Utah, and was the
oldest of ten children born to Lyman Leav-
itt and Ann Eliza Hakes Leavitt.
She was married December 28, 1892, to
Daniel Franklin Johnson, son of Joseph E.
Johnson and Thankful R. Fillmore John-
son, at Mesa City, Maricopa Co., Arizona.
Sister May was a kind, true and loving
wife and mother. She had three lovely


children, all of whom died within a year 
some two or three years before her death. 
	The husband and father is indeed sorely 
bereaved and feels his loss severely, but 
Brother Franklin has the sympathy of the 
entire community for his loss is also their 
loss to a great extent, for she was a faith- 
ful, prompt and energetic worker in all that 
she was called upon to do and took pleas- 
ure in discharging the duties that devolved 
upon her. She was a noble woman and a 
true Latter-day Saint, whose life was an 
example worthy of imitation. She kept 
the Word of Wisdom and was prompt in 
paying her tithing and donations. At the 
time of her death she was Stake aid and 
ward president of the Primary Association, 
and Stake aid in the Y. L. M. I. A.; also 
ward organist of the Nephi Ward and a 
teacher in the Sabbath School. 
	She passed away on Christmas morning, 
December 25, 1902, at the home of her 
grandparents, Collins R and Mabel Ann 
Hakes, in Mesa, Arizona, and she was born 
at their home in Utah. 
	She will indeed be missed, not only in 
the Nephi ward, but by all the Maricopa 
Stake, for she had many friends and rela-
tives.

	A. E. F.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

MARICOPA.

The Relief Society conference was held
at Mesa, in the R.S. Hall, March 12, 1903,
President Mabel A. Hakes presiding. Stake
Presidents C. R. Hakes and Isaac Dana and
other brethren were on the stand.
All the Stake officers of the Relief Soci-
ety were in attendance and nearly all from
the several wards. Subjects were, guarding
the youth of Zion, see that they kept good
company, and read only such literature as
would be of an elevating nature, the right
kind. Several appropriate hymns were
sung, interspersed with speaking, making
the meetings very interesting.
ANNIE E. FULLER, Sec.

FREMONT STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of Fremont
Stake was held at Rexburg, April 27, 1903,
President Temperance Hinckley presiding,
who welcomed all present and desired that
the Spirit of God might rest upon them for
their mutual benefit and blessing. Reports
showed all the wards in good condition and
the sisters feeling happy in their labors.
Sister S. A. Barnes gave a report of the
General Relief Society conference she had
attended in Salt Lake City, and the officers,
meeting; she also spoke upon the mother’s
work.
Sisters Annie and Susan Stevens and
Julia Cole, aids to the president, each ad-
dressed the conference.
Counselors Matilda Flamm and Elizabeth
Atkinson spoke encouragingly to the sis-
ters, exhorting them to diligence and good
works. 

[Column 2]
Sister Sarah Cahoon spoke upon true
education, urged the mothers to implant
faith in the hearts of the children and ex-
horted them to charity in word and deed,
scattering seeds of love and kindness in
their path.
President Hinckley made excellent re-
marks at the close of the conference which
was adjourned for three months.
SARAH A. BARNES, Sec.

ALPINE STAKE.
The Alpine Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held at American Fork, April 24,
1903, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Of the Stake presidency, Stephen L.
Chipman and A. J. Evans were on the
stand, also the Stake officers of the Relief
Society and a full representation of the
ward presidents. 
President Standring made an eloquent
opening address. The presidents gave en-
couraging reports of their respective,
branches.
Counselor Harriet Jacobs, in her re-
marks said, “visit the sick and the aged,
some of them starve for the kindness and
attention of the sisters.” 
President Stephen L. Chipman spoke in
great praise, of President Standring’s in-
structions to the sisters, and gave advice on
several important matters.
Counselor Annie C. Hindley thought we
should examine ourselves and find out if
we are in fellowship with each other and
the Lord.
President Standring felt the sisters should
be exemplary even in occupying humble
positions, spoke feelingly to the mothers in
regard to their duties in the family.
Sister Standring felt her heart full of
thanksgiving to God for her position in the
Relief Society, for with her it is the Gospel
or nothing.
In the afternoon other reports were given
and brief speeches were made by Sisters
Driggs, Evans and Featherstone and Stake
Presidents A. J. Evans and James H.
Clarke. The subjects treated upon were
the necessity of obedience and the need of
improvement in spiritual education as well
as mental, and almost every Gospel prin-
ciple was treated upon. Sister E. J. T.
Roberts made brief remarks and President
Standring closed by saying, “We have had
a feast of fat things today and there has
been a portion to every one. Let us in-
crease in knowledge and intelligence and
grow in grace and unity.”
Conference adjourned for three months.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.

SNOWFLAKE.
Our Relief Society conference was held at
Snowflake, February 13, 1903. It is the
first one since last June and was a real treat
to those who attended. We have never had
such a small attendance of sisters at confer-
ence, but this is due to the fact that there
have been contagious diseases among us. In
Snowflake alone there have been over one
hundred cases of diphtheria this winter.

[Column 3]
Twelve children have succumbed to its
ravages, and while it is a cross to part with
them, we feel that the Lord has been merci-
ful indeed to spare so many.
Owing to the quarantine regulations our
Stake president, Emma S. Smith, was pre-
vented from attending the conference, but
her counselors, Sarah Driggs and Mary J.
R. West, were present, the former presid-
ing.
The branches of the society of Snowflake
and Woodruff were reported by Sister Jane
Freeman and Bishop Savage. The diph-
theria has abated and meetings are now held
regularly, which is the case throughout
the Stake. Counselor Sarah Driggs ex-
pressed her thankfulness for the privilege
of meeting once more in conference, and en-
couraged all to be more energetic in the
discharge of their duties.
Counselor Mary J. R. West was the next
speaker. She regretted the absence of Sis-
ter Smith, who, she said, felt her place of
duty to be with the sick, but sent her love
and blessing to the sisters. Sister West
was very earnest in urging the young
girls to join the Relief Society, so they can
grow up with the work.
President Jesse N. Smith next addressed
the conference. Said, “We must not lose
interest on account of sickness. It is my
opinion that many of the Saints want to
get all the blessings they can and render as
little service as possible. It is not right,
we cannot stipulate or make terms of our
reward.” Spoke of the number of non-
tithepayers in the Stake and suggested that
the sisters would have more influence with
them than the brethren and if they were
willing to accept the labor a great amount
of good might be done. It is mostly the
young people who neglect their tithes.
We must not deceive ourselves by think-
ing we can claim the reward if we do not
fulfill the law. Perhaps none of us do to
the letter, but those who do the best will
stand the best show.
Brother John J. G. Webster, the Y. L.
M. I. A. missionary from Cedar City, Utah,
Bishop John Hunt and Brother Smith D.
Rogers also made remarks on tithing.
Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Janet M. Smith, and conference was ad-
journed for six months.
DELLA F. SMITH, Sec.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3- Main Street.


Queen Wilhelmina has accepted Andrew
Carnegie’s gift of $1,500,000 for the build-
ing of a Temple of Peace at the Hague.

