UTAH WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIA-
TION.

	Madame President and Members of the
Convention:—Since our last report a petition
was presented to the Legislative Assembly of
Utah asking that the Deseret University,which
admits male and female students, be put under
the control of male and female Regents, instead
of, as at present, twelve make Regents. The
petition was read and, like the petitions of our
revolutionary forefathers to the British
Parliament, laid on the table.
	There are auxiliary to the territorial
organization seventeen county organizations,
and they have many auxiliary branch organiza-
tions. The paid up auxiliary territorial
membership is over fifteen hundred (1,500.)
	There have been two territorial conventions
held in Salt Lake City, at which,in addition to
the general routine of business, reports have
been received, and such instructions given as


seemed requisite. The number of meetings
held in the branches not reported.
	In some parts of the territory, notable in
Sanpete, Millard, Utah and Davis Counties,
much zeal has been manifested.
	The cause of woman's wages, woman's moral,
social and political needs have been discussed;
also the best methods of helping woman to
rightly understand her present degree of help-
less dependence, and to intelligently assert her
selfhood in a manner that will enable her to
labor more effectively for the general good of
humanity.
	Classes in civil government have been
formed; the duties of city and county officers
have been considered; mock legislative
assemblies have been organized and bills pass-
ed. These lessons have been among the most
instructive of our general exercises.
	In July, the Territorial Woman's Suffrage
Association gave a lawn fete as an Inde-
pendence Celebration, attended by over four
hundred, at which the principles of the suffrage
cause were presented from a political and
scriptural standpoint. In the same month we
held a grove Jubilee in honor of the admission
of our neighboring State, Wyoming, with her
model constitution guaranteeing equal political
privileges to men and women.
	The cruel enactment of our Government
which deprived the women of Utah, without
trial, of their vested and treasured right of
franchise, we understand to be a grievous
wrong, which calls on the administrators of
justice in our nation for redress.
	Our mountain vales are not free from
obstructions; but one by one the advancing
waves of better thought silences them,and once
timid friends of our cause come more and more
to the front.
	Women workers in the suffrage cause in
various parts of the Territory report that they
find many clear brained men who are helpful to
them in various ways. They give their names
and pay their dues,adding words of encourage-
ment, and wishing us success in the good cause
of women's full enfranchisement.
	Our publishing committee have issued a
collection of songs, which help to make our
meetings varied and interesting.
	We watch with interest the reports of the
labors of our Sister Suffragists abroad and they
have our sympathy in all their laudable efforts
in helping to raise the standard of equal
human rights.
