N. A. W. S. CONVENTION.

	I am from the first Territory that by its
 laws recognized the ballot as the natural birth-
right of woman as well as man; and a near 
neighbor of the only State in the Union that
recognizes in its Constitution that the consent
of woman is essential to the just exercise of
power in the government to make laws for
her guidance.
	I beg you will not deem it egotism when I
remind you that the Eagle, emblem of our gov-
ernment is indigenous to a mountain country,
and that there is a something in the rarified
atmosphere of high altitudes that impels the
human soul to pant for greater heights of
human liberty than is today enjoyed by the
masses. It is not strange then that the practi-
cal disenthrallment of woman, should first be-
come crystallized into organic laws in the wilds
of the Rocky Mountains.
	The branches of the Woman's Suffrage As-
sociation in Utah Territory are in a flourish-
ing condition, our meetings are frequently held
and numerously attended, and I believe a close
scrutiny of the statistical reports will show
that a larger porportion of the women of Utah
are enrolled as members of the Association
than in any State or Territory of the United
States.
	The peculiar circumstances surrounding
Utah and her political and social relations,
are such as cause the questions of the extension
and limitation of the right to vote to possess
peculiar and grave significance to all classes
of her citizens, and to elicit extensive discus-
sion by her people, about the basic principles
underlying the rights or privileges of the elec-
tive franchise. The people of Utah of all
classes, are driven by the force of circumstances
to think on this subject, and it is very gratify-
ing to note, that the more people think about 
it, the larger are the numbers of those who
advocate Woman Suffrage as an abstract
right, and as a proposed practical amelioration
of the evils which now infest society, which
man alone without the aid of woman has
hitherto been unable to successfully grapple
with and overcome.
	The fact that deep, earnest thought on this
subject generally makes converts to our theory
is all but conclusive proof, that the advocacy
of Woman Suffrage is one of those revolutions
of human society that never go backward,
hence, although we in Utah have once pos.
sessed, but we are now deprived of the fran.

[Column 2]

chise, we cannot but hope that as agitation of
this question is increased, those who now pos-
sess power may be induced to think on this
subject, and confidently expect that calm,
sober thought by the statesmen of our nation
will lead them to adopt such measures as will
permit all the women of our nation to exercise
this high privilege of citizenship.
	The fundamental principle upon which rep-
resentative Government is based is "that all
just Governments derive their powers from
the consent of the governed." Can a Govern-
ment truly be said to be just, when it deprives
one-half of the independent intelligences it
assumes to govern, of the only measure now
known by which their consent can be ascer-
tained or expressed? We think not, and so 
insist upon the theory that a truly representa-
tive Government is based upon an expression
of the free will of every individual member
who is capable of intelligently expressing his
or her will.
	It is freely conceded that insane persons do
not possess intelligent wills, hence they
cannot express them, and that children whose
minds need training and development cannot
but be dependent upon their tutors, hence their
consent is implied by the laws of existence, but
there is no law of being that makes woman's
will dependent upon the will of man. The
sexes complement each other, they travel upon
parallel lines, side by side with each other,
naturally endowed with similar aspirations,
each in its own sphere with equal intelligence,
amenable to the same laws, both human and
divine, each with individual responsibil-
ities, each entitled to personal liberty of body
and what in the near future must be con-
sidered as a higher natural freedom, the right
to express their individual choice through
casting their ballots just as we do.
	Holding these views we meet often together
to discuss social and political questions, desir-
ing that we may be fully able to discharge our
responsibilities when we shall be permitted to
exercise our rights, fondly hoping that the time
is not far distant when intelligent women will
be permitted to vote for men and measures
that will tend to elevate society; when a wo-
man's vote will be at least equal to that of a
man, who may have cast his ballot when tem-
porarily insane by intoxication.
