FAITH.

	The knowledge which persons must have
that the course which they pursue in life is
pleasing to God, in order that they may be
enabled to exercise faith in him unto life and
salvation, supplies an important place in our
religion.
	The confidence of God is an absolute
necessity to all persons to enable them to ob-
tain eternal life, and it was through this con-
fidence that the saints of ancient days, know-
ing, not believing, that the course they pursued 
was agreeable to God, were willing to take
the "wasting of their substance" joyfully, and
to suffer death in its most horrid forms.
	The glory which is laid up in Heaven
for them that fear God and worship Him ac-
cording to revelation can never be attained
without they have an actual knowledge that
they have embraced those things which God
has established for the redemption of man.
Without this knowledge, the opposition in the
hearts of unbelievers, and the persecution
which they will have to encounter will cause
them to grow weary in their minds.
	It requires more than belief or supposition
that he is doing the will of God, for a man to
lay down his character, his houses, his lands,
his brothers, his sisters, wife and family, and
even his own life for the sake of the knowl-
edge of Jesus Christ.
	In order to produce the faith necessary to


life and salvation a person must belong to a
religion which requires the sacrifice of all
earthly things, for it is through this sacrifice
that God has ordained that men should enjoy
eternal life.
	It was in offering sacrifices that Abel, the
first martyr, obtained a knowledge that he
was accepted of God, and that knowledge from
Abel's time down to the present has been ob-
tained in the same way.
	Those then who make this sacrifice will
have the testimony that their course is pleas-
ing in the sight of God; and those who have
this testimony will have faith to lay hold on
eternal life, and will be enabled through faith
to endure to the end and receive the crown
that is laid up for them that love the appear-
ance of Jesus Christ, our Lord.
		E.


