IN MEMORIAM.

"A combination and a form indeed,
Where every god did seem to set his seal
To give the world assurance of a man."

	These words of the great poet describe more
fully than any others we recall, the personality of
President Daniel H. Wells. A man among ten
thousand, remarkable in appearance, in features,
in bearing,and in all the great and noble qualities
of head and heart that mark the men of destiny.
Brave and fearless as a lion in times of danger
or peril, yet tender and gentle in times of peace
and security. Loyal in the best sense of the term
to his manhood, his country, and his God. In
every place, and at all times true to his friends
and the principles he had made the guide of his
life. But he has been called away to join the in-
numerable number of the just, gone to the society
of the prophets and patriarchs, whom he knew
and loved while here. Gone to fill some higher,
holier mission,there can be no doubt in the minds of
those who knew his fitness for the Master's work.
His labors in the Temple here were indeed a
blessed preparation for the work behind the vail.
His days were filled up with usefulness; he
labored long, faithfully and untiringly, and re-
joiced and was glad of the service he was able to
render for Zion. No sacrifice was too great for
him to make, no labor too arduous to undertake,
if it was to promote the interests of the kingdom
of God, or benefit the people with whom he had
cast his lot. He lived for others more than for
himself as great men ever do; he was as free
from selfishness or self-aggrandizement as it was
possible for a man to be. His integrity to the
Gospel was beyond question. The trying ordeals
through which, in the course of his life, he was
called to pass only made more apparent the true
greatness and sublimity of his character.

"For as gold is tried by fire
So must the heart be tried by pain."

	President Wells never shrank from trials how-
ever severe, but grew strong and valiant for the
truth, the more he was tried. The writer has on
more than one occasion heard him repeat with
much depth of feeling those grandly eloquent
words of Job: "Though He slay me, yet will I
trust in Him." The natural refinement of soul
and boundless charity that always characterized
this great and good man,shone in his countenance
vividly as he advanced in years,softening to saint-
liness the outlines of his magnificently massive
head and face. Those who saw him in his holy
calling in the House of the Lord felt how suited
was the great high priest to the sacred offices in
which he officiated.
	Language fails to give expression to the heart
when such a man passes away. Many have been
the sentiments of love, affection and esteem
spoken and written of him since his death, faith-

[Column 2]

ful tributes to his memory, and he deserved them
all. He was beloved by the people, and he loved
them truly. Those who are faithful and endure
unto the end will meet him again; the assurance
of the Resurrection of the body was one of his
favorite themes, and the joy of meeting those he
loved on earth,renewed and quickened, redeemed
and glorified, to dwell together in the family rela-
tion, was the hope firm as an anchor to his soul
and led him to exclaim with the Psalmist, "I shall
be satisfied when I awake in thy likeness."

	Daniel Hanmer Wells was the son of Daniel
and Catherine Chapin Wells, and was born at
Trenton, Oneida County, New York, October
27, 1814. His father served in the war of 1812,
and was a descendant of the celebrated Thomas
Wells, the fourth Governor of Connecticut, who
was several times elected alternately as Governor
and Lieut. Governor of that colony.
	The mother of the deceased was the daughter
of David Chapin, a revolutionary soldier and con-
nected with one of the oldest and most dis-
tinguished New England families. He served
under the immediate command of Washington
during the greater part of the War of Inde-
pendence.
	In 1826, when he was but 12 years of age, his
father died and then he took upon himself the care
of the family. Six years afterwards, with his mother
and sister, he moved to Ohio, and the following
spring to Illinois. He took up his abode at
Commerce, then a small village, but it was after-
wards noted as the "Mormon" city of Nauvoo.
Here he was elected constable, then justice of the
peace, and was an officer in the first militia or-
ganization of the district. He was a Whig in
politics and figured prominently in the political
conventions of the period. He was an ardent
champion of universal liberty and a foe to oppres-
sion in every form. He was highly esteemed by
people of all parties and creeds, and frequently
acted as arbitrator in difficulties between neigh-
bors and families. "Squire Wells" was noted, in
that early day, as a man of strict integrity, with
a high sense of justice and impartiality.
	In 1839, when the Saints,fleeing from Missouri,
settled at Commerce, he aided in securing for
them a cordial welcome. He owned, among
other pieces of property, eighty acres of land on
the bluff. This he platted into city lots and let
the poor and persecuted "Mormon" refugees have
them at very low figures and on long time for
payment. This endeared him to the people and
determined the location of the chief part of the
city, and of the Temple which was built on land
that had belonged to him.
	"Making the acquaintance of the Prophet
Joseph Smith he became strongly attached to him
though then unconnected with the Church.
When the Charter was granted by the Illinois
Legislature to the City of Nauvoo, he was elected
an Alderman and member of the City Council,
also a Regent of the University and a Brigadier-
General in the Nauvoo Legion. He was promi-
nent in the city affairs and supported every public
measure for the progress and welfare of the
citizens. When the opposition to the "Mormons"
reached its height, General Wells remained on
the side of the assailed people and would not join
in any of the movements for their injury. The
murder of the Prophet and Patriarch, Joseph
and Hyrum, aroused his deepest indignation, and
he strongly protested against the demand of the
Governor of the State for the arms of the Legion,
which was made under the pretext that the people
of Nauvoo might attempt to avenge the slaughter
of their leaders.
	At the time of the exodus of the main body of
the Church from Nauvoo, and the remnant that
were left being attacked by their enemies after
having been promised prctection, Squire Wells
espoused the cause of this oppressed and perse-

[Column 3]

cuted people. His "gallant defense" of the
"Mormons" at that time will never be forgotten,
his fortitude and courage were "a tower of
strength" to those who were defending them-
selves against their enemies. The story of his
valor is graphically told by those who partici-
pated in that terrible struggle, when the aged, the
poor and helpless were compelled to leave Nauvoo
and camp upon the opposite banks of the
Mississippi River. He was the last one to leave
when the city was evacuated, and was fired upon
after crossing over into Iowa.
	He immediately started for Winter Quarters
where the Saints were camped,and rode day and
night, accompanied by Wm. Cutler, to report the
condition of the people and urge the necessity of
the teams being sent to help them.
	Squire Wells was baptized on the 9th of August,
1846, and from that time his progress has been
onward and upward; though he left all he held
dear on earth at that time for the Gospel's sake,
his wife and only child, his worldly possessions,
his honor and good name among men, and allied
himself with a people unpopular, and at that time
compelled to flee beyond the bounds of civiliza-
tion because of their religious faith. He came to
the valley in 1848, and has resided in Salt Lake
City ever since, except when away upon missions.
In the organization of the Territory,he took a prom-
inent part, and was elected to the first Legislative
Council of the provisional State of Deseret and
appointed as State Attorney; he was also elected
Major General of the Nauvoo Legion, the State
militia, by the General Assembly, May 26, 1849.
March 27, 1852 he received the rank of Lieutenant
General of the Legion, and was commissioned by
Governor Brigham Young, March 7, 1855. He
was afterwards re-elected Lieutenant General
April 6, 1857. General Wells conducted the
Indian campaigns with great military skill, and
succeeded in saving the Sanpete and Sevier
settlements from the dire disasters that threatened
them. His command of the Echo cañon expedi-
tion is a well-known historical event, and won
for him the undying admiration of the Mormon
people. For many terms Hon. D. H. Wells was a
member of the Legislative Councils, and of the
several Constitutional Conventions, with the ex-
ception of the last one in 1885, and filled other
important positions in the building up of the
country, such as Superintendent of Public Works,
Chancellor and Regent of the University of
Deseret for many years, and Mayor of Salt Lake
City ten years. The first time the women of Utah
cast their ballots was for the election of D. H.
Wells for Mayor of the City, for his third term, on
the 14th of February 1870.
	On January 4, 1857, Daniel H. Wells was or-
dained an Apostle and set apart as Second
Counselor to President Brigham Young in the
First Presidency of the Church, which office he
filled until the death of President Young, when he
was appointed a Counselor to the Twelve
Apostles. When the Manti Temple was dedi-
cated May 21st, 1888, he was appointed to take
charge of it as President, and he truly magnified
his calling in that responsible capacity, and grew
more and more into the hearts of the people as
they visited that sacred place and received bless-
ings and ministrations at his hands. But he
has gone, and the places that knew him will know
him no more until he comes forth clothed with
eternal life in the resurrection of the just.

