RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, That it is the unanimous voice of
this Council that all institutions of learning
and of professional instruction, including
schools of theology, law and medicine, should
in the interest of humanity, be as freely
opened to women as to men; that opportun-
ities for industrial training should be as gen-
erally and liberally provided for one as the
other, and that the representation of organized
womanhood in this Council will steadily de-
mand that in all avocations in which both men
and women engage, equal wages shall be paid
for equal work; and, finally, that an en-
lightened society should demand, as the only
adequate expression of the high' civilization
which it is its office to establish and maintain,
an identical standard of personal purity and
morality for men and women.
	Resolved, That the National Council en-
dorses the general features of the plan of or-
ganization outlined in our president's address,
and that the general officers fully elaborate the
plan between this and the next session of the
National Council.
	Much interest will be felt in this proposed


[Column 1]

plan of organization, which is very full and
comprehensive. It is outlined by Miss
Willard as follows:
	"I believe we should organize a miniature
council in every town and city, confederating
those in every State, and instructing the State
Council to send delegates to the National
Council. The plan would be to let these de-
legates form a lower and the heads of national
societies an upper house, whose concurrent
vote should be essential to the enunciation of
any principle, or the adoption of any plan.
The president of this society should be (as has
already been wisely ordained by this Council)
eligible for but one term, and should have
power to choose her own cabinet from the
seven ablest women of the country, represent-
ing the industries, education, professions,
philanthropies, reforms, and the religious and
political work of women. We should thus
have have within the national government, as
carried on by men, a republic of women, duly
organized and officered, not in any wise an-
tagonistic to men, but conducted in their in-
terest as much as in our own, and tending to-
ward such mutual fellowship among women,
such breadth of knowledge and sympathy as
should establish solidarity of sentiment and
purpose throughout the nation of women-
workers, put a premium upon organized as
against isolated efforts for human betterment,
minify the sense of selfhood and magnify that
of otherhood, training and tutoring women for
the next great step in the evolution of
humanity, when men and women shall sit side
by side in government and the nations shall
learn war no more.
	"The Upper Council, as it might be called,
would, by this plan, consist of two delegates
from each society which, in its judgment, was
national in scope or value, one being the presi-
dent of that society, the other chosen by bal-
lot at its last annual meeting preceding the
session of the Council (which I would have
convened biennially). This Upper Council
would answer to the Senate of the United
States, and the Lower Council, made up of
delegates chosen by the forty-four State Coun
cils from their auxiliaries, would be analogous
to the House of Representatives. We should
thus have an organization that would include
all the various groups of women hitherto
isolated (and, as a consequence in some degree
provincial), while its basis would be so broad,
its aim so far-reaching, and its plan so unique
that no other society could consider its realm
in any wise encroached upon.
	"The same democratic basis of organization
should extend to the local councils—i. e., each
should be made up of two delegates from
each local society of women in the city, town
or village, one being the president of said local
society and the other chosen by ballot of that
society. The State Council should be made
up of two delegates each, chosen in like man-
ner from the local councils, these to form a
lower house in the State Council, and the
presidents, with one other representative of
each State Society, to form the Upper Council
in each State, the president and vice-president
of the National Council to be elected bienni-
ally by a popular vote of all members of all
local societies tributary to the National
Council.
	"We have wished for a method of inducing
women to cast their ballots on a large scale;
this would be quite sure to arouse an enthus-
iasm that would "call out the vote."
	"As a financial basis, I would propose a dime
a year to the National Council from each
woman in each local organization of women
in the United States. This would be burden-
some to no one, and would be paid outside of
all other fees.
	Such a national society would incalculably
increase the world's sum total of womanly

[Column 2]

courage, efficiency, and esprit de corps; widen-
ing our horizon, correcting the tendency to an
exaggerated impression of one's own work as
compared with that of others, and putting the
wisdom and expertness of each at the service
of all Nor would it require a vast amount
of effort to bring such a great movement into
being, for the work of organizing is already
done, and the correlating of societies now
formed could be divided among our leaders,
each one taking a State, or a number of chief
towns and cities.
	Being organized in the interest of no speci-
fic propaganda, this great Association would
unite in cordial sympathy all existing societies
of women, that with a mighty aggregate of
power we might move in directions upon
which we could agree.


