SPEECH OF REV. ANNA H. SHAW.

	Frances E. Willard, the Pres. of the
Council, introduced the last speaker, Rev.
Anna H. Shaw as follows:
	We have had present during the Council a
very modest, quiet, gentle, and yet indomitable
little woman, who has had the embarrassing
and unenviable duty of tapping the bell.
Now she is to come under the rule, and no
one will do it with more gracefulness or good
will. While Rev. Anna H. Shaw speaks to
us about "God's Women," she will present in
herself an embodiment of the unique title she
has chosen for her address. I will ask Mrs.
Mary T. Lathrop to time the Rev. Anna H.
Shaw.
	Miss Shaw proceeded to review Bishop
Vincent's reported assertion that God's
women are not the Deborahs and Miriams,
but the Ruths, Rachels, and Marys. She
said:
	The subject, "Gods Women," was suggested
to me by an article in a newspaper in which
a gentleman defined God's Women. It has
always seemed to me remarkable how clear
the definitions of men are in regard to women,
their duties, their privileges their responsi-

[Column 2]

bilities, their relations to each other, to men,
to government, and now to God. While they
have been doing this for years, we have been
patiently listening. The woman of the nine-
teenth century has taken to definition, and she
has come to the conclusion that it may be
possible for a woman, as well as for a man, to
comprehend the relations of women to each
other, to their homes, to the church, to the
State, and, listening for the voice of God
themselves, to know what is the relation of
woman to the Divine; and, believing this,
no divine, whether he wear the name of elder,
deacon, priest, bishop, or pope, shall define
for the woman of the twentieth century her
right to be and to become all God makes it
possible for her to be.
	The great divine who suggested this
subject to me was lecturing before an In-
stitute of Sacred Theology, in the city of New
York. Before him was a class of students,
male and female, and he was defining to the
male students what they, the males, might
permit the females to do. He says, "There
are some things which the women may be
permitted to do." Now we like that, don't
we? Some things that we may be permitted
to do! "They may be permitted to dispense
certain charities; they may be permitted to
speak in prayer and class-meetings; they may
be permitted to do certain lines of church
work. There are other things that women
may not be permitted to do. Among the
things that women may not be permitted
to do, is to hold high official relation to the
church, to become its ministers, and to
dispense its sacraments. These things women
may not be permitted to do."
	In referring to the relation of woman to
the church, he spoke of the argument raised
by many women that it was the design of
God that woman should be eligible to any
position she could occupy. The women go
to the Bible to prove their claim; and the
one woman upon whom we have all laid our
claim and our boast is that grand old woman
who was able to cry out, in looking over
Israel in its hour of peace, "There was
trouble, there was dissension, there was un-
rest in Israel until I, Deborah, a mother in
Israel, arose." We point to the fact that the
judges of Israel were always understood by
those people to be divinely selected for their
position; and being thus divinely selected,
we cannot assume that any human being
could have taken the position who was not
recognized, by the people at least, as having
been chosen by God; and even with the
authority of the bishop to back it, we cannot
assume that God did not know what he was
doing when He chose Deborah to be a judge
in Israel. If Bishop Vincent thinks God
made a mistake, he will have to wait forever
to correct the mistake, for it is done, and we
cannot go back on the record. This woman
found a country greatly disturbed, a country
where the judges had been taking bribes from
the people, where the people were utterly
demoralized, where they dared not walk on
their highways because of thieves or robbers,
and were compelled to go secretly through
crosslots in order to get from city to city.
During the forty years of her reign as judge
of Israel, the whole condition of things was
revolutionized. We are told that she judged
the people in righteousness, and the people
had peace for forty years. Just think of
forty years of peace! We have never known
such a thing since that day. Now then,
this woman was not, we are told by Bishop
Vincent, God's woman. If, then, she was not
God's woman, whose woman was she? And
if God is not able to recognize His own,
what will become of us at the last? Now, we
believe that this judge in Israel was divinely
		[Continued on page 150.]


[Column 1]

We need more such men; but the Lord will order
all these things, and we must acknowledge His
hand in whatever may betide us. May our last
end be like unto his;' may our rest be also
glorious. May the Lord grant this to all who
seek for it, for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen."
	The choir sang:

"O, my Father, thou that dwellest"

	President George Q. Cannon read a portion of
section 76 of the book of Doctrine and Coven-
ants.

	"Language seems to be inadequate to convey
the thoughts that now fill my heart.
	"At times silence is the greatest eloquence;
though it would not be right or appropriate on
such an occasion for all to remain silent. We
owe it to the memory of our departed friend
and brother that we should give expression to the
feelings of our hearts concerning his labors and
his life. We owe it to those who live, that we
should give utterance also to our estimate of his
character, that the lesson of his life may not be
lost upon those whom he has left behind, but that
they may feel encouraged to emulate his deeds,
the purity of his character, the grandeur of the
principles which animated him in his mortal
career.	*	*	*	He was a man who
left his impress upon his associates and upon
society, and I feel that the world is the better be-
cause Daniel H. Wells lived in it. I feel that
humanity has been uplifted by his works, by his
example, by his whole life ever since he became
acquainted with the truth. He has not lived in
vain. Look at him from whatever stand-
point you may, you will find something to admire
in the man. If there was one characteristic that
he possessed more prominently than another, it
was his fidelity. He was true to his God; he
was ready to lay down his life at any time for that
which he conceived to be right. I do not sup-
pose that a more perfect man, so far as physical
bravery is concerned, was to be found anywhere.
He had unflinching valor, not only physical, but
also that higher and rarer quality, moral courage.
He possessed these elements to a remarkable
degree. He was true to God, true to his religion,
and true to his fellowmen.
	"We are noted, as a people, for the strength of
our friendship toward each other, and in this re-
gard Brother Wells stood out conspicuously. He
never deserted his friends. The more they were
assailed, and the more unfavorably they were
talked about, the closer he clung to them. He
carried this, indeed, into all the relations of life.
He was a man faithful to his brethren, faithful to
those who were humble, and whom he might have
ignored had he chosen. Then again his love for
his family was beyond expression.

"He possessed literary ability in a marked degree.
Years ago Dr. Bernhizel and myself exchanged
views about Brother Wells, when he was in the
habit of writing papers which were not credited
to him, but which, nevertheless were the emana-
tions of his pen. Dr. Bernhizel used then to
observe how extraordinary it was that one hav-
ing had so few educational advantages was able
to prepare such masterly documents as he did.
I have been similarly struck myself. As a
speaker he was not so strong as he was as a
writer, and yet how often has it been said that the
reports of his discourses always formed delight-
ful reading. He conveyed his thoughts tersely
and lucidly. Every one who read his discourses
was pleased with them; the matter was far better
than the manner of delivery. Brother Wells was
a man of great intellect, therefore a man of power
among his fellows. As to his future we need
have no concern, though his death has brought us

[Column 2]

sadness, because we have been deprived of his
society.

	The last time I visited Manti was in company
with Brother Lyman, a few weeks ago. There
was a conference in Sanpete, at Ephraim, and be-
fore it concluded we decided to go to Manti and
hold a meeting in the evening. President Wells
had not been able to attend, the weather was
stormy, and it was not fit for him to go out. We,
however, joined him at the Manti Temple and
took our meal with him. I remarked to Brother
Lyman at that time that I feared Brother Wells
was not long for this life. I could see a change
in him—that he was more feeble than I had ob-
served him for some time. Strangely enough, he
came here without our learning of it. We were
very busy at the time, and when the news of his
illness first reached us we supposed he .was still
at Manti. It was not until a remark was made
to the private secretary to send a dispatch to
Manti to learn of his condition that we heard he
was in this city. It was a surprise to us. I last
saw him three hours before his death, and al-
though I knew how feeble he was, I little thought
he was going to die so soon. He was able to
talk the evening before his death, when some of
us visited him.

	"After the martyrdom of Joseph Smith, Presi-
dent Young, in addressing a congregation, made
a remark which, though I was but a boy at the
time, so fastened itself upon my mind that I have
never forgotten it. Speaking of Sidney Rigdon
and other men in the Church he said, contrast-
those men with Rigdon, "There are many among
us whose knees have never trembled,
whose hands have never shaken, whose
hearts have never failed." And this is true.
There are men among the Latter day Saints
who amidst the greatest perils have never trembled
nor thought of wavering, either to the right hand
or to the left to save themselves; Daniel H.
Wells was one of the most prominent among them
all—the peer of the strongest, the peer of the
most courageous, the peer of the best men among
us. I pray God to bless his posterity; I invoke
the blessings of our Eternal Father upon them,
that their hearts may be comforted in the midst
of their distress; for it is a distress to part with
such as he. They will miss him, no doubt; but
God is able to console them and to fill their hearts
with peace and joy.
	After the conclusion of Pres. Cannon's re-
marks Apostle Heber J. Grant read a letter from
Apostle Moses Thatcher, which contained many
tender and beautiful sentiments and expressions
of love and esteem for Pres. Wells.
	The choir sang:

"Look up and put your trust in God."

	The benediction was pronounced by President
Lorenzo Snow. 
	As the procession formed and the people were
leaving the Tabernacle the beautiful snow was
falling covering the earth with its white mantle,
an emblem of the purity of him who was to be
laid away under this beautiful white pall.
	The procession formed in the following order:
Berry's martial band, pall bearers, the Twelve
Apostles—as honorary pall bearers, hearse, the 
First Presidency, the family and associates, mem-
bers of the City Council during the late ex-Mayor
Wells' adminitration, the First Seven Presidents
of Seventies, Held's band, Presidents of Stakes
and their Counselors, High Councilors and High
Priests, Quorums of Seventies, Quorums of
Elders, Presiding Bishopric, Bishops and Coun-
selors, Priests, Teachers Deacons, and citizens.
	The cortege was remarkable for its length, the
hearse being followed by over sixty carriages
filled with people. When the procession reached

[Column 3]

the cemetery the carriages formed as closely
around the grave as practicable. The body was
lowered into the tomb and a quartette—Brothers
H. G. Whitney, George D. Pyper, John D. Spen-
cer and Heber Goddard—sang, beautifully and
with deep feeling,

"He is not dead, but sleepeth."

	The dedicatory prayer was offered by Apostle
Francis M. Lyman.
	"The earth was then filled in over the mortal
remains of a man of sterling qualities. His in-
tegrity was beyond question, sagacity admirable,
his devotion to truth sublime, his simplicity un-
adulterated, his friendship steadfast as the ever-
lasting hills, while every characteristic of his
grand individuality was softened by the influence
of broad sympathy, which caused him to be
closely entwined in the hearts of the people."


