THE DEPARTED LEADER!

	"Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man
fallen this day in Israel?" (2 Sam., iii, 38.)

Tread softly as befits this sacred hour,
	Let busy thought with precious memories teem;
For one more triumph of that mighty power
	Which breaks and shatters this "life's fitful dream."
Yet, 'twas no dream to him, the latest called,
	For he had wrought amid its fiercest fires,
Where every fiber of his soul enthralled,
	Was keyed to loftiest mood and grand desires!
He worked for God, for truth, and humankind,
	He gave his strength to this, his life, his all;
So Israel in their deepest heart enshrined,
	And crowned with love this consecrated soul!

In softest tones, in whispered words and low,
	We greet his friends, our friends, this hallowed day,
Oh! bow the head, let tearful hearts o'erflow,
	Though none wish his return, or urge his stay;
Full well is known, for history's pages tell,
	How in the breach he dared to be a man;
As on the air the threatening murmurs swell,
	Of sounds demoniac from a murderous clan.
Ah! who shall tell the truth? that tragic past,
	For e'er remains writ on Columbia's soil;
By few so brave, their protest then to cast
	Against oppression in its mad turmoil.

From thence among the fugitives who fled,
	Amid the silence of these mountain vales,
To dwell in peace, by heaven's direction led,
	To work and wait, till right o'er wrong prevails.
Nerved to the contest rugged nature meant,
	"Yet courting conquest," as the years flew past,
See, concentrated toil and pure intent
	Hath found its triumphs in these vales at last!
Here countless homes, and labor's grandest crown,
	Here thousands dwell, here worship hath no fear.
And when each leader, tired, shall lay him down,
	God's generations will their names revere!

[Column 2]

No need to call the roll! The illustrious dead,
	Since Joseph fell in Carthage, one by one
By him invited, upward have been led
	To move, in wider range, the work undone!
And now, as by the coffined dust we stand,
	Though thoughts and tears commingled feelings show
No sorrow stirs the heart, no trembling hand,
	Would wish it other than we see and know.
E'en now it falls upon the spirit ear
	The song of triumph, music's singing sound,
Such as he heard amid that loftier sphere,
	Where our departed hath his welcome found!

The eye of faith beholds a mighty throng
	Who forward press to greet the ransomed soul,
Some silent stand, and some with bursting song
	Bid words of victory 'mid the arches roll!
Some clasp the hand, and some with warm embrace—
	With loving tones—the family gone before;
And all the Priesthood braves, with earnest face,
	To see an old associate, loved of yore!
Homage from those who know is highest praise,
	These tasted suffering, trial had, and tears,
During those changes of the latter days,
	Such as beset the best in lengthened years.

Reception there; Farewell, we whisper here,
	Our patriot-statesman cast in Heaven's mould:
A  more than brother—friend, forever dear,
	Beyond compare with treasured hoards of gold!
Great! Yet he stooped to bless the humblest one,
	And deemed him equal, if he needed aid;
A sympathetic soul, a hand which won
	That heartfelt faith which never was betrayed.
Amid his family, like an uncrowned king,
	Affection's rule, his sceptre and his throne;
Wives and posterity today can bring
	That love most generous where he best was known.

Honored in time, thrice honored 'mid the Gods,
	Shall not our souls awake to music's swell?
In rapt thanksgiving kiss a thousand rods,
	And peaceful say: "The Father doeth well!"
