IMPOSING FUNERAL CEREMONIES.
	On Sunday March 29th (Easter Sunday), the
large Tabernacle was filled with people, as-
sembled to pay the last tribute of respect to
General D. H. Wells. The procession left the
house in time to reach the Tabernacle at noonday.
The building was beautifully draped in soft white
cashmere, festooned with bows of white satin rib-
bon,and hung gracefully here and there were long


[Column 1]

﻿white cords and tassels, the most exquisite taste
was manifested in the draping and the decorating
with flowers and evergreens. The flower pots
were also covered with white draping,which gave
them a beautiful appearance and the whole effect
was emblematic of innocence and sublime purity.
	As the body, carried by the pall-bearers and fol-
lowed by the family, entered the Tabernacle, the
whole congregation rose and reverently re-
mained standing until the casket containing the
remains was put in its place in front of the stand
and the family were seated. The casket was an
elegant one of pure white, mounted with silver,
and engraved Daniel H. Wells, aged 76 yrs.
The floral emblems were very chaste and beauti-
ful, some of them particularly striking, a crown, a
harp of lilies, a cushion with the word Rest, a
basket of exquisite flowers and a snow white
dove with outstretched wings upon the top of it,
sheafs of ripened wheat tied with bands of white
ribbon with floral sickles, and a great bunch of
calla-lilies, and several other varieties, bouquets,
etc.
	The music of the organ commenced with a re-
quiem for the dead when the procession entered
the building, and the effect was most solemnly
grand and inspirational. Such notes of lofty
music are the best expression of grief possible
for those who mourn. In the centre of the front of
the organ hung a striking portrait of General
Wells.
	Of the General Authorities of the Church
seated on the stands there were, of the First
Presidency, Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon; of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles,
Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Francis
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant,
John W. Taylor, Anton H. Lund, and Abraham
H. Cannon; Patriarch, John Smith; of the First
Seven Presidents of the Seventies, Jacob Gates,
Seymour B. Young, C. D. Fjeldsted, John Mor-
gan, B. H. Roberts, and George Reynolds; of the
Presiding Bishopric, William B. Preston, Robert
T. Burton and John R. Winder.
	There were also, of local authorities, President
Angus M. Cannon and Counselors Joseph E.
Taylor and Charles W. Penrose, besides a large
number of Presidents of Stakes and other leading
brethren from various parts of the Territory.
And almost the entire body of workers from the
Manti Temple.
	The services were opened by President George
Q. Cannon, who announced the hymn commenc-
ing:

"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone.
The  broad bereavement seems to fall
Unheeded and unfelt by none;
He was beloved, beloved by all"

	The opening prayer was offered by Elder
William C. Dunbar.
	The choir then sang that beautiful poem from
the pen of Henry W. Naisbitt:

"Rest, for the weary soul,
Rest for the aching head,
Rest, on the hillside, rest
With the great uncounted dead."

	President Wilford Woodruff was the first
speaker; he paid a fitting tribute to his departed
brother and associate, and gave excellent counsel
to the saints. His remarks were consoling and
clear, comprehensive and full of inspiration. In
reference to death and funerals he said:
	"I will express myself here to my friends, as I
have done on many occasions, with regard to
funerals, with regard to death, and with regard to
going into the spirit world. I have never felt to
mourn in my spirit to follow any Prophet, any
Apostle, any Saint of the living God to the grave
who has been true and faithful to God, who has
been true and faithful to his covenants, who has
received the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the or-
dinances thereof, and the holy Priesthood. Such

[Column 2]

men and women have filled their missions here
upon earth with honor, with labor, with love, until
they have been called home. They have
died in the faith, and they will receive
a crown of glory. These have been
my feelings in the death of President Young,
Brother Kimball, Brother Taylor, the Twelve
Apostles, and all men who have received the
Gospel of Christ and been true and faithful in
that mission. There is an eternal reality—which
the whole world will find out—in life. There is
an eternal reality in death. There is an eternal
reality in the resurrection, and in the future judg-
ments, and in God's dealing with all men in the
future according to the deeds done in the body;
and when a man or a woman who has entered into
covenant with the Lord, who has received the
Gospel and the ordinances thereof, and been true
and faithful in his or her day and generation, has
been called home into the spirit world, where is
the man who comprehends these principles that
can mourn for that brother or sister? Here lies
before us the tabernacle of Counselor Daniel H.
Wells. His death has been sudden to us. I did
not know that he was sick, or that he was in the
city, till about two days before his death. Well,
we mourn his loss. We feel his loss. All those
associated with him do. We feel the loss of men
occupying such positions as he has done. His
position has been very responsible. He has
magnified it unto the end. Now, when Brother
Wells' spirit left his body, what was his con-
dition? Well, I have my faith and my views with
regard to it. When his spirit left his body he
met with a corps of friends ready to receive him
—those friends with whom he has dwelt, with
whom he has labored, with whom he has toiled
in building up the Church and Kingdom of God
on the earth. There is rejoicing when the spirit
of a Saint of the Living God enters the spirit
world, and meets with the Saints who have gone
before him."
	Apostle Anton H. Lund referred to the ex-
cellent qualities of the departed and to the high
esteem in which he was held by his co-laborers
in the Manti Temple. He said: "We are
gathered here today to pay our respects to our
beloved brother, President Daniel H. Wells, who
has just departed. With you I feel the loss we
have sustained, because I have had the privilege
of being associated with him for the last three
years in the Temple at Manti. During that time
I have much enjoyed his company and felt that he
was indeed a man of God. He was a man of
great kindness, coupled with rare ability. It was
pleasant to meet him every morning and to feel
at home in his presence. It was pleasant to
listen to his discourses. They were brief, but
gems of wisdom. And those who have been as-
sociated with him will remember his teachings
and impart them to their children after them. I
know this to be the feeling of all who have
labored with him in the Temple.
	"Brother Wells, although he loved the Saints
from the time when they came to Nauvoo, was
not at first impressed with their doctrines, until
he heard the Prophet Joseph preach on "baptism
for the dead." This principle he at once accepted
as true, and he decided to devote his life to the
work for the departed. It was the charity and
the infinite mercy shown in the doctrine that im-
pressed it upon his loving heart.
	"One day he was walking on the street in
Nauvoo when Brother Kimball came up behind
him, touched him on the shoulder and said, 'You
are thinking of joining the Church and becoming
one of us.' He was startled, because he had not
mentioned what he felt to any one. He did not
join this people until they had suffered the ut-
most, and he did not cast his lot with them be-
cause he expected any worldly returns. He
received a testimony of the truth and therefore
he became one with us.

[Column 3]

	"After having referred to the labors of the de-
ceased in the Endowment House and in the
Temple, the speaker said that the words of the
Apostle Paul could properly be applied to
Brother Wells: "I have fought a good fight; I
have finished my course; I have kept the faith;
Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of
righteousness." (2 Tim., iv., 7-8.) He fought
indeed the good fight, and kept the faith. The
work in the Temples is eminently a labor of faith.
	"Few have performed so much work of this
kind as he. He spent his time and his means in
that direction, and worked for a great many on
the other side of the veil. I have no doubt that
he has now met with many of those who through
his ministrations have received the truth.
	"May God bless his family and friends who are
left here to mourn his departure."
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards spoke as fol-
lows: "Beloved friends, I share with you the loss
that we have sustained by the departure of this
great and good man, who has finished his earthly
course, and whose remains are here with us to-
day.

	"I must now stop to go into details; but I
would like to tell you that he was much beloved
by the Prophet Joseph. The fact that Brother
Wells was with the Saints in the various circum-
stances which attended them during their sojourn
from 1839 to 1846, in Nauvoo, created in the
hearts of all the people an affection for him that
has intensified ever since.

	"We have seen him promoted to the highest
military rank known in the existence of a Terri-
tory of the United States, and we have seen him
with his officers gathering men and means and
going to various positions in the Territory to sub-
due the occasional hostilities which occurred with
the Indians. But he was most careful lest there
should be any bloodshed, and the aborigines came
to learn through his kind though firm treatment
that this people were their true friends; for he
taught them that it was better to fight them with
tobacco and biscuit than powder and lead. His
officers all loved him, and the longer his associa-
tion with them, the deeper became their attach-
ment to him. We have known him too as a
foreign missionary. Twice has he been to
European countries, preaching the Gospel, pro-
claiming it both verbally and through the press.
His acquaintance among the human family was
extensive. All Israel seem to know him today
and he knew all Israel; for when he came to be
a counselor to the First Presidency, he traveled
and labored throughout the length and breadth of
the Territory. Some of us have had the satisfac-
tion of enjoying those sacred seasons with him.
And how he loved them! How he sought by
night and day to interest all God's people! He
never appeared to set anything before this pur-
pose of his heart. And then he was called to
labor in the Endowment House. My own ex-
perience with him enables me to say that we have
very few men in Israel who understand and com-
prehend the law of God and can make so careful
and faithful an application of it to the multifarious
conditions of the human family as did President
Daniel H. Wells. His great experience in this
enabled him to do it with love and affection, by
which he technically maintained every right and
every interest of all concerned.

	"May the Spirit of the Father be upon the sor-
rowing ones, abide with them, and be ever near
to whisper to them words of comfort and conso-
lation; and may God guide them in that honor-
able course until they reach that happy end to
which Brother Wells has attained. We cannot
mourn for any sin of omission or commission on
his part; but we shall feel his absence keenly.


