	MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: I have been thinking for some
time that I would write a few lines to your
valuable paper, though I do  not suppose my
silence has been missed. Our little burg has
still a longing desire for advancement, and
seeing the Herald's account of the general re-
ception given our Delegates at Washington
and since by so many leading papers, aroused
my enthusiasm more than ever, and it is usually
buoyant on the subject of the equality of
woman.
	I can note with pleasure the great strides
that have been made in the past few years,
which is being proven beyond a doubt that
women are not to be crowded out or left be-
hind, but interest in the work is
essential to true progress. Would to God
that woman herself would arise from the
apathy that has so long enslaved her, for I
regret to say that the number are few that
comprehend any responsibility of more magni-
tude than the one which encircles the four
walls of a kitchen. This, together with the
little gossip that seems to be more or less
prevalent among neighborhoods, monopolizes
all the spare time that most women have, and
which so often leads to unfavorable results.
The little things in life generally cause the
greatest trouble and possess the most influence
for good or evil. So will a single word many
times change the course of life as quickly as
an event apparently a hundred times greater.
	Let us guard our little acts, be always
watchful of the results which a carelessly
spoken word or look or frown may produce,
for we are similar to mirrors and to a greater or
less degree possess reflective and refractive
qualities; a smile will produce a smile, and
an angry word is sure to be cast back. Then let
us be watchful of our tongues and guard our
actions. Our motto should be, work with a
will at whatever will bring the greatest happi-
ness to the individual or to the masses. Now
is the time to begin if we have not already.
Don't wait. The world in its ceaseless
journey never waits. Nature in its laws has
provided well for rest, but has made no
provision for waiting.
	I imagine that the women who attend the
Washington Convention must return to their
homes fully convinced that there is a class of
women who do not wait, but who work with
a persistency of effort that is bound to bring
a victory to the cause of right; and this wo-
man's reform which is so formidable in its en-
tirety is destined to win. As "the fittest must
survive," I believe it to be in the economy of
Heaven that woman shall no longer be held
back because she is a woman, but wherever in-
telligence exists, develop it for the benefit of
humanity. How often I think man might be
benefitted by his companion understanding his

[Column 2]

position in life, in business affairs, as well as
socially; and by her co-operation and knowl-
edge she might be able to assist and
encourage him, when disappointment and
worry over business affairs harass him; a few
kind, cheering words, when understanding his
position, would count for much more than if
she was utterly ignorant in these matters; not
that we are egotistical enough to believe
everything is going to be set right when we
have the power, but that she has the right to
try, no true American can deny.
	During the past winter many of our asso-
ciations have been studying civil government
and I have been talking with several gentle-
men in regard to assisting us in understanding
something of municipal government, which, by
their aid, can be made beneficial to us. Our
reorganization was effected in January and
most of our members are workers and desirous
of progress, having in view a knowledge that God
will defend the right, without regard to sex,
for this is woman's era; never before has she so
nearly approached political emancipation as
now, and her victory is surely inevitable.
		Respectfully,
