SPEECH OF REV. ANNA H. SHAW.

[Concluded.]
ordained for the work. because otherwise she
could not have done her work so well.
	This same divine tells us that Miriam was
not God's woman either; that she was a sort
of something interpolated for the times of
war and distress. All great souls are in-
terpolated for great occasions when they are
needed. And when God wants a certain
thing done that He knows needs a woman to
do it, He generally raises up a woman and
not a man for the position. The world
needed a woman. Here was a boy, Moses,
under the reign of a man, by whom Moses
would have been put to death in his baby-
hood, but that the loving heart of his mother
said, "He shall not die," and she hid him
away.
	We are told that women have no reasoning
powers. They are not able to arive at logical
conclusions. When I was in the theological
school, a young man who was studying
theology, and who was arrayed, as they always
are during the first year, with a coat buttoned
up high around the neck, and all that, said
he thought it was his duty to warn me in
the beginning. He said: "You are making a
great mistake. God never intended a woman
to preach the gospel. God has so constructed
the brain of a woman that she cannot give a
correct and continuous exegesis of Scripture."
Doesn't that sound like a first year student?
"It may be," I said, "that God has construct-
ed our brain so that we cannot give a correct
and continuous exegesis of the Scripture.
But He has at least constructed our brain
so that somewhere or other He has found a
place in it in which He has bestowed a large
amount of gumption. Now if we do not pos-
sess exegetical ability, we at least have gump-
tion enough, if we undertake to preach and
find our church empty, to get out of the pulpit
and into the pew. What a grand thing it
would be for the church at large if the other
sex had some of that kind of gumption! There
would not be some bishops who are preaching
today.
	Now this woman, Miriam, we are told, is
not God's woman. But see this little woman's
gumption, how she gets around the young
princess and the mother-heart of the young
princess, goes out towards the baby! She was
a woman, though she was a princess. See how
shrewdly this little girl planned it so that the
child's mother should become his nurse, and
how, under the guidance and care of his
mother, Moses was reared to become the leader
of the people of Israel! You see that in all
that transaction, God did not need a man, and
He did need a great woman; and He found
women enough of the kind He wanted to do
just the work that He wanted done. What more
natural than that when Moses, years after, led


[Column 1]

the people out from Egypt, there went by the
side of the great leader his sister Miriam, and
that they, with their other brother, became the
united leaders of the children of Israel out
from their bondage?
	If God chose a woman to act in these cases,
when the world needed a clear brain, a tender
affectionate, loving, motherly heart, a firm and
determined will, and chose the woman to do it,
and if when the people needed a leader to
guide them out of bondage to freedom, He
chose a woman to be among the leading in-
struments of that great undertaking, who
shall dare to say, be he layman or priest, that
such a woman is not God's woman?
	The Bishop says there are certain classes of
women who are God's women. We want to
know who they are, because then we can range
ourselves on the right side. God's women
according to the Bishop, are "the Ruths, the
Rachels and the Marys." We have some of
the Marys here. Ruth was a remarkable wo-
man, because Ruth was absolutely devoted to
her mother-in-law, and that takes a great wo-
man. I shall never rise to say that a woman
devoted to her mother-in-law is not God's wo-
man. But then, Ruth had some peculiar ways
of getting along in this world. I hardly think
the Bishop would like to have some of us who
are unmarried follow Ruth's method of secur-
ing a husband. I hardly think he would like
us to follow her line of courtship; yet the only
two things for which she is admired are a de-
votion to her mother-in-law and a peculiar
method of obtaining a husband. These are
perhaps two very good things in themselves,
but we should hardly think they were of such
importance to the race that such a woman
should be especially held up as a type of God's
woman.
	Then there was Rachel. We know two or
three things about Rachel. One is that she
had such a high sense of the subserviency of
woman to man, that, while the lazy shepherds
lay about, gazing at each other, and at the
skies, and perhaps at her, she left them gazing
while she went to the well to draw water to
water the flocks. That might be the Bishop's
idea of God's woman, but it is hardly my idea
of the proper division of labor between the
sexes. I should prefer to let the Bishop draw
the water while I gazed. There is another
thing we know about Rachel—that she was
a very handsome woman. Every man and
every woman likes to see a handsome woman;
but I have heard it said that women are al-
ways jealous of each other's beauty, and al-
ways angry if anybody says anything about
the beauty of another woman. This gathering
of women is certainly an exception to the rule
for we have been the proudest set of women
you ever saw, because in the providence of
God there has been gathered here with us in
this council such a magnificent band of beau-
tiful young women of whom we are all proud,
and we glory in their beauty. Those of us
who have passed our youth, look at these
young girls, not with envy, but with a little
bit of pain in our hearts, and say: "If God
had only made us that way, we would have
been glad." We do rejoice in each other, and
we are glad of a good-looking young woman.
Rachel was so good looking that Jacob wanted
to marry her, and he worked seven years for
her. She must have been a very desirable
woman for Jacob to give seven years' hard
labor for her. Nowadays if a man courts for
a few evenings he thinks it is plenty of time
to spend on it. Jacob waited seven years and
then got cheated out of the woman he wanted,
and had to marry her eldest sister. Rachel,
however, was a courageous woman, and he
was a faithful man, so he waited seven years
more. The only other thing I know about
Rachel is, that the Bible says she wept for her
children because they were not. The inference

[Column 2]

is that you men may go on behaving, as you
say you do, improperly in politics; that you
may make the politics of this nation dark,
damaging and unclean; that at last you may
have an unrighteous war, and then take our
children and kill them on the battlefield, and
all we have to do about it is to stay at home
and weep for our children because they are
not! We are to have nothing to say as to
whether you shall kill them or not. All we
are to have to do about it is to cry about it.
	Then the Bishop tells us Mary was one of
God's women. There are a number of Marys,
and the Bishop does not designate which of
them it was. If he means the Mary out of
whom the seven devils were cast, I should not
agree with him. If it was the Mary who
washed the feet of Christ and wiped them
with the hairs of her head, in token of peni-
tence, I admire her penitence, but I do not
admire the sin that led to the necessity of that
penitence. If it was the Mary who was his
mother, the Bishop has brought forward the
wrong Mary to prove his case. What does the
Bible tell us? In the fulness of time, God
needed for the world a Redeemer. How
should He give the Redeemer to the world?
He gave the Redeemer to the world by choos-
ing out of the world a woman to become the
mother of the Savior of the race. God and a
woman gave to the world its Redeemer. Men
were counted out of the transaction. She did
a great work for the world, but she did not do
it in her kitchen, cooking chickens for con-
ference season and other occasions when the
ministers came around.
	Then there was another Mary, and she is the
Mary whom I have taken as my example in
my profession. This was the Mary who stood
by the tomb of the Lord, and there at the
mouth of the open tomb she received the first
divine commission from the Divine One Him-
self to go out into the world and preach the
gospel of a risen Lord.
	We have one other Mary, and that Mary
was the Mary who sat at the feet of the Lord
learning theology of Him; and the only reproof
the Lord ever gave a woman was not given to
Mary,the theological student,but to Martha,the
woman who worried about her house-work, and
wanted Mary to give up theology and go into
the kitchen and cook the dinner.
	Now then, here are the Marys, two of whom
were sinners. One was the mother of the
Lord, doing the greatest public work for the
race that has ever been done in the world.
One was a woman who was a theological
student learning at the feet of the Master The
other was the first divinely commissioned
preacher of the resurrection. I am glad that
Bishop Vincent holds that women ministers
are God's women; that women theological
students are God's women; and that the wo-
man who was the mother of the Savior of the
world was also God's woman. I believe they
were; I believe that the Miriams and the
Hesters and Vashtis were God's women too.
	When I was a girl I read the Bible through
in order to select from it the two people who
were to be my hero and heroine through life.
My hero was Jacob, and my heroine Vashti.
Vashti disobeyed her husband, and left her
palace because she had disobeyed her husband.
I selected Vashti from among them all, be-
cause she did disobey her husband—a woman
away back in the centuries, who recognized the
dictates of her own self-respect; a woman who
refused to become the puppet of a king, and
of his drunken courtiers; a woman ready to
give up a man and a throne, a husband and a
kingdom, rather than do an ignominious thing;
such a woman is God's woman,husband or no
husband. I wish the world were full of
Vashtis today, standing by the right of their
individual self-respect; and I sigh to God for
such womanhood.

[Column 3]

	The concluding remarks of Bishop Vincent
were in relation to motherhood. He referred
to that passage of Scripture which we have
heard so much about in this discussion. "She
shall be saved in childbirth." Most of us re-
gard this passage of the Scripture as meaning
that she shall be saved by the coming of the
Child—shall be saved by the birth of Jesus
Chirst. She shall be saved because Jesus
Christ came into the world to save not man
alone, but women also. Women shall be saved
because of the coming of Him who is the
Emancipator of the race, women included.
Believing this, we think the discussion which
has been raised upon this line is a mere make-
shift; it has nothing to stand upon.
	There are two things to be considered in re-
lation to motherhood. We have heard that
motherhood is a crown of glory. They say
motherhood is the greatest crown of glory
which a woman can wear. We answer, No;
motherhood is not the greatest crown of glory
which a woman can wear. Motherhood may
even not be a crown of glory at all. Motherhood
may or may not be a crown of glory. It may be-
come a crown of shame. It requires that there
shall be a something back of motherhood to
define what motherhood shall be, and in this
something back of motherhood lies that which
shall make it a crown of glory. The highest
crown of glory which a woman can wear is
not motherhood. The highest crown of glory
which a woman can wear is womanhood—true,
noble; strong, healthy, spiritual womanhood;
the daughter of the King, the child of God,
the heir of the Lord Jesus Christ, equal with
Bishop Vincent, or any man in the world. If
the woman is first of all a woman, motherhood
shall become to her a crown of glory; but after
she is a woman, all things shall be to her a
crown of glory, whether it be motherhood or
spinsterhood. The mother heart of woman,
the mother heart that reaches out to the race
and finds a wrong and rights it, finds a broken
heart and heals it, finds a bruised life ready to
be broken and sustains it—a woman in-
stinct with mother-love, which is the expression
of the Divine love, a woman who, finding any
wrong, any weakness, any pain, any sorrow,
anywhere in the world, reaches out her hand
to right the wrong, to heal the pain, to com-
fort the suffering—such a woman is God's wo-
man. It matters not where she may be;
where she was born, under what skies she has
lived; she is God's woman, and at last she shall
find her God.


