L. D. S. WOMENS' MEETING.
	The regular semi-monthly meeting of L. D. S.
Womens' Associations held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms Feb. 15, 1890, was a very large
and interesting one. Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
Commenced with singing, "Come, Come ye
Saints." Prayer by Sister E. Stevenson, singing
"O, my Father Thou that dwellest." Minutes of
former meeting read and accepted. Pres. Horne
expressed herself pleased to see so large an as-
sembly, hoped none of them were discouraged,
because of the recent election, wished we were
as a people as much united in religious matters
as we are in politics. Instead of being dis-
couraged our faith should be increased. We shall
have the victory in due time, though we may have
to suffer. We have crossed the desert plains and
come here to build up Zion and we shall do it, 
as the Prophets have predicted; I have heard
Joseph prophesy concerning these things. Read
the history of the Israelites; related in brief some
portions of their history bearing upon the times
in which we live. It is our duty to stand up
bravely in defense of our rights. Great calamities
are befalling the nations of the earth have 
fought against the truth. The Lord will fight our
battles and the nations will fear and tremble.
Sisters seek for the Spirit of God and all will be
well.
	Sisters E. B. Fletcher, E. W. Wilcox, Diana
Reid, J. C. Howe, S. Cumberland, E. Stevenson
and others each spoke a few minutes, touching
upon important subjects and bearing powerful
testimonies to the truth of the work in which we
are engaged.
	Pres. Horne made a few closing remarks en-
couraging all to persevere and remain firm and
steadfast. Singing "Wake O, wake the world
from sleeping," benediction by Sister M. Brown,
meeting adjourned for two weeks.


The first General Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A. will be held Friday evening April the 4th, in 
this City.
	
	We have on hand the minutes of Relief Society
Conferences of Salt Lake, Sanpete, Uintah, and
St. Joseph Stakes which we shall use according
to dates, also an account of a trip through Emery
Stake.

	The General Conference of the Church which 
will convene on the 4th of April next is looked
forward to with intense interest, in view of the re-
markable changes that have and are taking place
in the history of Utah.

	There will be a Convention of the Woman Suff-
rage Association of Utah Thursday, April 3, 1890,
in the Assembly Hall, to commence at 2 o'clock
p. m. It is particularly desired that every organi-
zation throughout the Territory be represented
by a delegate, if possible; and if not, by manu-
script. All interested in suffrage are cordially in-
vited to be present.
				SARAH M. KIMBALL, Pres.
