MY SUBJECT IS SUFFRAGE.
	[An article read at the Suffrage meeting
held in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City, on
Monday Feb. 10, 1890, by Dr. Elvira S.
Barney.]
	The definition of mankind is, "The human
race collectively, man and woman."  The
Sacred Book says, "They became one flesh."
The same book says, "Man is not without the
woman in Christ."  Woman is the counter-
part of man.  They each make the happy whole.
	No structure is complete without its parts.
The roof of a house is dependent upon its
supports, it covers the structure.  A founda-
tion is the beginning of the whole.
	Right when enjoyed gives tone to society,
and to the heart a welcome sound, and is as
music to a cultivated ear; this makes heaven;
and the opposite brings discord.
	It is not a rational thought, that will not
accord to our neighbor, the same right we ask
for ourselves.
	If we require lumps of ice, to assuage our
burning thirst, to cool our fevered lips, should
we deny another lying upon the same couch
like relief.
	If man has become crippled through unfore-
seen powers, and woman is strong, she should
use her powers to aid him on until he has
crossed the chasm.  Then, the case should be
reversed, and if he is strong, and she is physi-
cally weak, God made it so; and he should give
her aid, as liberal minds do.
	A noble man will never draw a line of de-
marcation between himself and his wife, for
she is his own choosing, and is his partner in
life, and the mother of his children, his com-
fort in night dreams, and the solace of his
cares.
	Suppose man, because he has the power, to
pluck a rose from the stem, or bush that gave
it birth, and from which it is nourished and
fed, should cast it upon the burning desert
sand, leaving it powerless to survive beneath
the rays of the scorching sun, and thus it
withers and dies.  Does this prove that Might
is Right?  No man need try to make himself
believe that mankind does not include woman;
for his existence proves the reverse; and
legally he has not been given absolute power
to deprive her of any universal right, Re-
ligiously, Politically, or Domestically.
	If her powers are small and puny, why fet-
ter the little she has?  Give her Suffrage,
Why?  That she may help modify existing
wrongs.
	Today are thousands of mothers of children,
widows or worse, wives of wicked, drunken,
debauched libertines, and if they are too in-
toxicated to stand, they lean upon their neigh-
bor while they can "Legally" cast their vote,
for similar man as themselves, as a ruler over
man and woman, for which act law does not

