[Column 2]

satisfied to have anything left of the dreamy,
speculative, or imaginative; but we must have
plain, straightforward, scientific facts, well de-
fined situations, and suggestions bearing on
the economy and practical side of every day
existence.
    Observe this tendency in the art of painting,
commencing with the Dutch school, whose artists
painted not only pictures of the real common-
place life about them, but, for fear  that  there
might be a gleam of ideality exhibited,  these
old fellows were rather wont to choose for their
subjects interiors, with all the disgusting details
and offensive minutiae of domestic life  among
the lower classes of that time.  Free  fights in
taprooms; men, women,  and  children,  mixed
up together in drunken brawls, and  the like.
Any one who remembers the Teniers, Browers
and Jan Steens, will not fail to appreciate their
realism. And this same tendency has extended
into  more  recent painting.  Even into  the
historical and religious art, so long  considered
purely idealistic, has this same spirit of realism
penetrated, guided by the spirit of science and
accurate research.  No more striking instances
of this are to be found than the genre paint-
ings of Knauss, Defregger, and their class.
    Then, in literature,  see what realism has
accomplished, or not accomplished, beginning
with Balzac, the father of the school with his
melancholy pictures  of  Parisian life  in  the
early part of the  present century, down to
Z[-]la, with his minute and detailed description,
in clear outlines and high coloring, of a bad
case of small-pox, which he gives us in that de-
lightful and spirituelle flight of the imagina-
tion, the romance "Nana."  But to return to
our romanticism; the father of romantic opera is
Von Weber, the composer of “Der Freischutz”
(the enchanted bullets).   In  his operas the
refined spirit of the school shows itself in its
brightest and most captivating form.  They
are masterpieces of imagination, weird and
ghostly, and produce the same effect on a
sensitive individual  as  will  Edgar  Allan
Poe's fantasies, say for instance, "The Story
of a Black Cat," when read under favorable
circumstances.  With Weber, no sooner does
one of those weird ideas present itself to his
mind than he yields himself to its influence,
body and soul, and paints  it  in  such  wild
fantastic colors that his audience cannot choose
but dream or shrink, or shudder, or be horri-
fied at his will.
    Mendelssohn, although in some respects a
romanticist, as, for  instance,  in  "The Mid-
summer Night's Dream," was an imitator and
a very successful one,  of the classic forms.
He, of all the modern composers, has made the
nearest approach to the old reformatory spirit
of religious composition in the great oratorios
"Saul" and "Elijah".
    Schumann is perhaps the best known light
in  the  purely  modern  development of  this
romanticism, and was during his life, its leader
and champion.  He revived the spirit of Richter
and  Hoffmann,  and  in  fact,  taking  their
writings as texts, he actually tried to portray in
music language the peculiar eccentricities of
these old rhapsodists.  He was both musician
and poet.  In  order to  understand  him one
must be "en rapport" with the spirit of the
poetry by such German romanticists as Richter,
Heine, and Schlegal.  And just as these poets
revealed endless depths  of feeling  in a few
lines, so does Schumann succeed in saying great
things, and leaving unutterable things to be
felt, in one of his short piano poems or songs.
Schumann is more available to  us, owing to
the fact that his most striking peculiarities
and  propensities toward romanticism show
themselves in his piano compositions.   Like
Schubert, he resorts to any technical means to
give a picture of his poetic fancies, and  these
are always strange beyond all description, but
beautiful and striking.   If it be true—what a


friend recently told me—that all musicians are
more or less insane, then Schumann's madness
is full of consistency and method. But he
died before middle age of morbid insanity,
his brain being unable to sustain the stress of
romanticism which his disposition and tempera-
ment brought to bear upon it.
	It is unnecessary to give any further ex-
amples of the romantic composers. There are
as many different genres in musical composi-
tion as there are styles of writers in the history
of fiction; gypsy, Spanish, and Norwegian
music; character music, like Gottschalk's negro
melodies, with their banjo and tambourine ac-
companiment represented on the piano; and,
 highest of all, Chopin's beautiful and refined
piano composition of the purest national charac-
ter (Polish.)


