[column 1]
	"It is about the certificate from the minister,
you understand that although we are such
near neighbors and friends, he has never spoken
to me since the day you were baptized, he
does not consider Mormons upright and moral
you know."
	“And that is more than a year now, and
living next house but one; well he must give
me the certificate there is no reason why he
should not and if he refuses I’ll ask the Squire
his word is as good."
	“He hates Mormons just as much as the
minister does and his wife is far more bitter
than dear Mrs. M. in fact I do believe she
would have been a believer in our doctrines
but for his forbidding her to attend the meet-
ings;" said Mrs. H. in reply.
	There is no time to lose" said Hepsie I'll
go this very day, there is nothing like trying
I do not believe in failure." Mrs. H. knew
better than Hepsie how bitter the prejudice
was in the little village for she had felt it
more keenly, since the larger number of con-
verts, had loft for Nauvoo, and one obstacle
after another had come in her way to prevent
her selling out and going where she could be
among the saints and have congenial society.
	Hepsie carried out her intention; she hastened
immediately to the minister's cottage, and
Mrs. M. who was in the front yard among the
lilacs welcomed her most tenderly. "So glad
to see you Hepsie, you are back from school,
have you finished?" Before Hepsie could
answer she asked a half a dozen more questions
and invited her in, but Hepsie declined saying
she had so much to do, and had come over on
purpose to see the minister.  "Tell me first
said Mrs. M. eagerly how is your mother, for
I have the most profound respect for her and
admiration of her moral courage in maintaining
her position in the faith for which she has
made such sacrifices."
	Hepsie realized the truth of these words and
knew they came from the heart, with tears in
her eyes and thanking Mrs. M. for her sympathy
she followed the good lady to her husband's
study and was ushered into the august presence
of the Reverend man. "Miss Hathaway, Hepsie"
he said as he rose from his table to meet the
girl pale and trembling, "have you come back
repentant to ask advice?"
	"O, no, I have come on quite a different
matter, it is to ask for a certificate from you
of moral character, I am engaged to teach at
Beechwoods and shall need one."
	The minister was like one bewildered, "teach,"
said he, "you are only a child yourself and
much in need of being taught, you astonish
me, a young girl in short dresses and a Mormon
asking for a certificate to teach, you will not
be allowed to promulgate any of your Mormon,
doctrines in a New England school." "O, as
to that I know so little myself that would be 
quite impossible," replied Hepsie.
	It is the more fortunate for you, that you
know so little but I must consult with 'Squire
W. about the certificate I'm not sure it would be
the proper thing to do. I was in hopes you
would come home after a year's absence among
Christian people with a change of heart and
convert your mother from the errors into
which she has fallen and become a member of
the Church in which you might have such a
great and powerful influence, that needs the
help and support of just such refined and
educated young women." "All this time
poor Hepsie was trembling and shivering, not
speaking out as she would have done had
she not wanted the certificate. Her heart
was bursting with indignation, yet she must
not be in the least seemingly disrespectful,
lest she should lose the little item on paper
that was to be so much to her. Finally after
more pressing interrogatories, and assurances
from Mrs. M. that she would get the certificate
the next day, she began to be more self-
