CITY."

	The above is the title of a book recently pub-
lished at the Office of the Juvenile Instructor in
this city, the author is Brother James A. Little, a
nephew of the late Pres. Brigham Young. He has
very appropriately dedicated the book to Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff, the only living Apostle 
Pioneer. The work is embellished with cuts
descriptive of the subjects and places treated
upon.
	We have not yet had time to peruse the book
carefully, but have gone over it in a sort of
desultory way, reading paragraphs and parts of
chapters here and there, but even in this way have
found many interesting and important matters re-
corded, with which we were erstwhile familiar.
	We all know how apt one is to speak of matters
in a general way, forgeting dates and such other
definite particulars as help to recall other similar
occurrences, and in this respect furnishing dates,
etc., the book will be invaluable.  The travels
and journeyings of the Saints are told in a simple 
unpretentious style that make them all the more
eloquent and pathetic.
	The book is one that should be in every home
library as well as public ones, and is especially a
good work to send out to friends in the world as
it graphically describes the removals from place 
to place, and persecutions of the Saints, and how
in the midst of trials and difficulties, they have
been upheld by faith, and shows how a loving
Father has led them even into this promised land,
this refuge in the mountains.
	There is no danger of too much being written
of the early pioneers of the country, and in glanc-
ing over brother Little's book, we are very glad
to see he has made particular mention of the
second company of pioneers, that company being
composed of men women and children, about 600
wagons leaving Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river the June after the first pioneers had started
in April and arriving in the valley the last days of
September and first and second of October.
	These are the people who built the fort, who
fought the black crickets, and paved the way
through innumerable hardships and privations
for those who followed after.  Too much cannot
be said in praise of their heroism and sublime
faith.  There are many excellent lessons to be
learned from the careful perusal of this book of
the pilgrimage of the Saints, and every one who
reads it will be benefitted thereby.  The book
may be safely recommended to all as possessing
reliable information, valuable as containing a por-
tion of the history of the Saints. The book is
printed in clear readable type, on a good quality
of paper, and contains 260 pages divided into 30
chapters.  Prices, cloth bound $1.50, leather gilt
$2.00, extra gilt $2.50.


