		   MALAD STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	"The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Malad Stake was held at Port-
age Feb. 9th, 1890.  Pres. Lucinda Hoskins
presiding.  On the stand Coun.  Wm.  H.
Gibbs, Bishops of the different wards, Presi-
dents and Counselors of the different branches,
etc.  Meeting opened by singing “May we
who know the joyful sound.” Prayer was
offered by Brother J. D. Gibbs, singing
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire.” Minutes
of last Conference read and approved.  Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins then addressed the meeting,


said, "we are living in a time that will try the
hearts of all; our greatest aim should be to
stand firm in the kingdom of God. The Relief
Society is doing a great work wherever it has
been organized, we should be diligent in at-
tending to all our duties."
	Sister A. Hall then spoke a short time bear-
ing testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
Bishops Jonah Evans, Enoch Harris, and
Thomas Davis made very instructive remarks
on several different subjects, encouraging the
sisters to live up to their privileges and stand
firm in the kingdom of God. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m., singing "Beautiful
Home." Prayer by Bishop Enoch Harris.
	Afternoon services commenced by singing
"Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah." Prayer
by Brother Joseph Dudley. Singing "Come
let us prepare with one heart." Pres. Rose
Howell of Muddy Creek, Pres. Jane Harris of
Portage, Coun. Esther Lusk of Malad City,
Sister Philene Hall of Washakie, Sister Eliza-
beth Davis of Cherry Creek, Sister Elvira
Harrison of St. John, all gave in favorable re-
ports of their respective branches, expressed a
determination to go ahead in the great work of
the Relief Society, and bore a faithful testi-
mony to the work we are engaged in.
	Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs then addressed the
sisters, spoke of the necessity of storing grain.
"We should be diligent in attending our meet-
ings; the Relief Society is a great blessing, they
are doing a great work in visiting the poor
and administering to those that need their aid
and assistance," and gave much valuable in-
struction.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins made a few closing
remarks. Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing "Lord we come before Thee
now." Benediction was pronounced by Brother
Richard Davis.
			LUCINDA HOSKINS, Pres.
			ELIZA. A. HALL. Sec.
West Portage, March 4th, 1890.


