EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	According to previous arrangement a goodly
number of brethren and sisters met at the R.
S. Hall at 1 o'clock p.m., Feb. 25th, under
the auspices of the First Ward Relief Society,
for the purpose of surprising and showing
their esteem for their beloved President—
Sister R. W. Tyler, being the seventieth anni-
versary of her birth. President Jane Bickley
of the Second Ward went with her buggy to
Sister Tyler's home and desired to accompany
her to visit the sick, which request was cheer-
fully complied with. After visiting one sick
lady, they drove to the Hall where Sister
Tyler's family and friends awaited them. The
surprise of this aged mother was plainly de-
picted on her countenance, and she was quite
overcome with emotion at sight of so many
friends and associates; Brother J. Thompson
being requested to preside, the meeting was
called to order and her (Sister Tyler's) favorite
hymn was announced, "Up Awake ye De-
fenders of Zion." 	Prayer by Patriarch
Jonathan Crosby, singing "O God our Help."
Sister E. W. Hawkins in a neat, appropriate
speech, presented Sister Tyler with a hand-
some gift, a dress pattern of fine black cash-
mere as a token of esteem from her sisters and
co laborers. Individuals also presented her
with nice tokens. Sister Tyler responded in
brief, pathetic remarks—thanking all present
for their kindness and hoped to continue to
live in their esteem.
	The following committee viz:—Sisters H.
Baker, E. Jolly, R. Briggs, H. M. Edwards
and H. Stoney arranged an excellent pro-
gramme, consisting of speeches, songs, recita-
tions, etc., which was next in order. The
speakers briefly referred to Sister Tyler's asso-
ciation with the Church for fifty-eight years,
and her good labors in the Relief Society for
a score of years—also having been a member
of the first organization in Nauvoo. All
united in wishing her many happy returns of
the day. After these exercises a sumptuous
repast was indulged in by all present. Sister
Tyler was the recipient of a beautiful cake
made by Sister E. W. Hawkins—presented on
a nice glass cake stand—a gift from Sister J.
Bickley—also a cake with the year, name, and
age in candy letters (made by her daughter).
Both cakes were nicely frosted and adorned
with candy, mottoes, etc.
	Some of the excellent repast was conveyed
to the sick. After being together several
hours and having an enjoyable time, long to
be remembered by those present—a hymn was
sung, and benediction pronounced by Patriarch
D. Tyler, and all dispersed to their homes.
					A. M. Tanner, Secretary.


