THE WORLD’S CIVILIZATION AND
POLITICS.
	These two go hand in hand. Civilization as
some of our opponents interpret it, gives leniency
to wrong-doing and calls it right. But the
Scripture says, "Wo, unto them that put light
for darkness and darkness for light.”
	The fathers and mothers among Latter-day
Saints have ever been diligent in teaching their
children to walk in the paths of virtue, to be
honest, not to gamble and spend their time in
grog-shops, for these things lead to misery and
death; and for this cause, the men who have
been appointed by the Voice of the People, who
are in the majority have suppressed these
accursed nuisances; Until later years, those who
have been sent here from abroad have encouraged
these places, and now they are fully established
and they tell us that such places have done more
to win our youth over to their ungodly ways and
views than any thing else. Think you that many


of them are won over?  Heaven forbid!  there
may be a few weak-minded ones, but their fate
is a down-fall from the path of rectitude and,
right, when swerved or allured from heaven's
path which is straight and narrow.  Yet to be
firm and steadfast and hold out to the end, there
is a crown of glory laid up for such in the eternal
mansions of our great Redeemer.
	But if we would obtain salvation at the hands
of our Father, we are not free to sin; there is a
penalty attached to it that no one can escape.
"The wages of sin is death," and the way of the
transgressor is hard."  Peace and joy come from
doing right.  The world cannot give it nor take
it away.  Oh, that my warning voice could reach
those who have strayed from the fold of Christ.
The truth of the everlasting Gospel that you have
turned away from,—the ancient Saints laid down
their lives for, and counted all things but dross,
that they might obtain eternal life in the king-
dom of heaven, and they testified of what we
now enjoy, the fulness of the everlasting Gospel
that would be restored again in the last days."
That the kingdom would be set up, and all
nations would be gathered into it.  And men would
have to be called as was Aaron, that no man
could take this honor to himself."  The
Melchisedec and Aaronic priesthood is now con-
fered upon the Elders of the Church of Latter-
day Saints.  And they have the authority to
teach sound doctrine.  The same that Paul told
Titus to preach.
	Ch. II. 1. But speak thou the things which be-
come sound doctrine:
	2.  That the aged men be sober, grave, tem-
perate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.
	3.  The aged women likewise, that they be in
behavior as becometh holiness, not false ac-
cusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good
things.
	4.  That they may teach the young women to be
sober, to love their husbands, to love their child-
ren.
	5.  To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good.
obedient to their own husbands, that the word of
God be not blasphemed.
	6.  Young men likewise exhort to be sober-
minded.
	Paul must have been a believer in hierarchy to
be teaching in sacred things.  And to think that
brother Paul dare to assert that in Abraham all
the nations of the earth should be blessed and he
a polygamist, had four wives.  It is rather doubt-
ful whether our law-makers at the highest court
at Washington and all others who have pro-
claimed so loud against it, will accept a blessing
from Abraham or have any desire to go to his
bosom, and less so, if his four wives are there;
he also had the gospel preached to him, lie must
have received it as he was a preacher of righteous-
ness.  There is quite a similarity, between
Abraham and the Latter-day Saints.
