EDUCATION.
	Education is development, and its aim is the
harmonious action of all the powers, a cultivation
of the mind, the body, and the soul.
	A close adherence to these principles will make 
man complete in his sphere,—a God in embryo.
	Strictly speaking, education covers the whole
area of life, and is the sum total of man’s exist-
ence. Death is not its terminus, for when we
look beyond the grave, we there see him en-
throned, forming worlds and commanding chaos.
True education, then, places the sword of science
in the hand of man standing on the foundation of
pure religion.
	If this be true, we will not wonder at Prof.
Huxley's saying: “True science and true religion
are twin sisters, which if separated proves death  
to both.”—For says he, “Science prospers in the
same ratio as it is religious; and religion flourishes
in the exact proportion, to the scientific depth
and firmness of its basis."
	The educated man is not the scholar, the pugi-
list, nor the 'good man,' but he is a well balanced
combination of the three. He has a healthful
mind in a healthy body, and is in possession of a
pure heart. Other combinations, can not be
classified with the truly educated.
	There is one fact we must learn, and that is
that mental progress is due solely to mental labor,
just as physical development is due to exercise.
Our natural abilities are perfected by study as a
plant is by growth.
	The merchant might ask when can I study—
when a moment presents itself, for moments
make hours. Read a little, then reflect much, for
it is not what we read but what we retain, that
becomes of use to us. Let us each have an aim
in life and be sure that we reach it.
	Ask education what she has done for the hu-
man family, and she will answer,—have I not
tamed the Lightnings, and made the mighty ocean
a highway of travel and commerce? Who are
our wise men, Doctors, Lawyers, Judges, States-
men, etc. They are my children.
	Ask ignorance what she has to offer, and the
answer will be “tramps”—Do I not fill the
saloons, can you not see my off-spring crowding
on the street corners, and collecting at the least
sign of excitement? They are my children.
The profoundest sorrow known to man is not
brought upon us by the world, its malice and its
persecution, we can laugh at, and hurl defiance at
its injuries:—but the sorrow we bring upon our-
selves, is the heart’s sorrow. Let us then, make
the most of our time and spare ourselves vain re-
grets for wasted days for, “Of all the sad words
of tongue or pen, the saddest are these 'it might
have been."


