[Column 2]
dispute.  Why do I say similar?  Has not our
past experience proven it thus?  Did not we
after seventeen years of franchise, have it stolen
from us?  Question, Who, or what, caused it
thus?  It was men—dacity.  You may say
this is very strong language.  Yes so it is. But
if we cannot catch a thief, should we be cen-
sured for saying thief, when a value is taken
without remuneration?
	A very wise man once explained the virtue
of union, by taking some little sticks, separately
he broke them, but by tying a bundle of them
together, he showed they were not easily
broken.  In the past woman has been curtailed,
hence her powers have been weak, but her
numbers are increasing, and on the face of her
just measures she will soon show her strength.
	I have heard the word feminine used some-
times when the opposite sex desired to express
weakness.  If they will only read the cata-
logue of crimes today, they can see there,
chronicled more than weakness, a deranged,
misguided, besotted, muscular brain.  Should
I say feminine here?  No!  The application
here would be a disgrace to the word.
	The muscular portion of the race, the ma-
jority of them, are drifting rapidly into the
great vortex of crime.  It would be better that
they act the part of a woman awhile, and turn
the wash machine five or six hours, or carry
a twenty pound baby over a long road to
market and back, as mothers have done.  Ah
no! the babe would soon be too heavy for such
as they, and would be hurriedly thrown into
the mother's arms again, saying, "Take your
child and nourish it, and ascend the rugged
hill."  Who are the fathers of the race, if it
is only the mothers that should nourish and
carry the child?  Give her suffrage then, if she
must act the part of father, as well as be the
mother of men.
	Suppose we leave those barbarous ones, and
speak of our noble friends, those are they, that
defend, and always come to the aid, and help
carry the burdens and sorrows of woman.  We
are proud to say that we claim by descent,this
nobility in the race, a kindred tie from
Abraham.  It was pronounced upon him by
the Father of the universe, "that he should be
a father of a mighty nation, numerous as the
sands of the sea shore."  Mighty in what?
Numbers, excellence, valor, virtues, &c. Genesis
XVIII Chap. 18&19 vers. Also the Lord said,
"I know he will command his children after
him."  Hence, the virtue that exists today,
for which woman aided by man, is struggling
to protect, and she is becoming a great army
in the land under the name of Suffrage, and in
this group you'll find Abraham's blood cours-
ing through their veins.  Hence the great ap-
peal for right, and objections to wrong.  By
agitation, and great toil, woman's voice is be-
ing heard, and Suffrage is spreading beyond
our governmental areas; it is almost world-
wide.
	Suppose I predict, that it will not be long,
until the rulers of the nation, in order to extri-
cate themselves from their entanglements
through the rapid growth of dishonor, suffer-
ing, sin and crime;—(which is [-]e unto a
massive underbrush in a large piece of timbered
country; it is not only unsightly, but inter-
woven, matted together, and before the wood-
man's ax can be applied to the larger growth,
he finds he must clear it away.  He sets him-
self about it, but he soon finds he is lost.  His
head becomes bewildered and he cries for help.
He has waited too long and instead of apply-
ing the brakes to the powerful locomotive, he
has applied the fuel.  He now sees his mis-
take, and beholds his dilemma.  If disruption
should take place, then terrible the confusion;
and he is on the brink, and is momentarily
preserved by a hair's breadth space.)—Now
I say, suppose I predict that which was so
unpopular a short time before will be sought


for, and also an appeal will be made to Wo-
man, (as often is to her quick perceptive powers
in emergency) the Head Center of the Great
Woman's Suffrage Organization, including her
noble brothers, the question will be; “What
does Woman say?  Give us some of your wis-
dom?
	While reading the political matter of the
day, of different Territories, I became in-
terested in a report of the Committee, on
County and Municipal Government, in Wash-
ington Territory, Olympia, July 22nd, 1889.
Especially the following clause. “The Legis-
lature shall have no power to impose tax upon
counties, towns, municipalities, for local pur-
poses, such power is vested absolutely in
Local Authority.’' This suggested the fol-
lowing sentences, I am a woman, and deprived
of suffrage.  I have paid taxes about thirty
years, and I have often heard it expressed that
“taxation without representation is tyranny.”
I'll add to this and say.  It is a vexation,
a disgrace to the nation, bondage, a species of
slavery, a great incentive to rebellion.  On
our public buildings, on all public political
occasions, is hoisted and unfurled the stars
and stripes, as a representation of our Grand
Old Constitution.  Our martial music issues
forth strains of welcome to national holidays.
But it is sad, to think in the folds of that
majestic flag, is hidden a something that speaks
louder than the cannon’s roar, "Crippled
Liberty,” and in the swells of the martial
music I hear stifled moans, “Crippled Liberty.”
The Orator of the day proudly reads the
nation’s motto.  Life, Liberty, and the pur-
suit of Happiness, guaranteed under the Con-
stitution.  It is “Mistaken Liberty.” Hark!
What do we hear?  A double echo from the
flag accompanied by the sound of the drum.
Give Woman. Suffrage, give woman suffrage.
Read your mottoes, unfurl your flags; but we
will place upon our banner, the name of, and
give all honor to, our Father, the King of
Kings,woman’s friend.

	Ladies!  Do not pine and die on injured past,
	Ye should sue for woman's rights, from first to last,
	If ye will but work and wait, you then will see,
	Woman as well as man from tyrant’s laws are free.

	Ere long, she will help to hold the Center Staff,
	Unfurl the flag that will make the nations laugh;
	There in print "Woman Suffrage" in letters bold,
	Read her name “Queen with King," in the nations roll,

	With him, she has endured the scorching fires, 
	And kept her faithful beat through midnight hours;
	And mingled with the pebbles of the briny sea;
	In battle, has helped to make the nations free.

	Many things there are of which we are not yet sure
	But woman knows so well, that she can much endure,
	And the sweet whisperings are "Oh !  watch and wait,
	The pleasure of God, He never comes too late."

	If I was a poet, I'd make the air ring; 
	To woman I’d talk, and of her I would sing.
	To critics then I'll say if laurels you've won;
	I'll tell you once for all, I have just begun.


