[Column 1]
RAMBLING THOUGHTS.
	To guard well all God-given gifts and blessings
is the duty of the Saints.  I often think are we on
the watch-tower or in the basement?  there is so
much at the present time to look out for. 
	We have been made partakers of the good
word and of the Spirit of God, each Saint being
baptized and receiving a knowledge for himself
or herself that the Holy Ghost bears witness that
the gifts and blessings which adorned the Church
in our Savior's day are again restored to the
earth, and have so much light that the Priests of
the earth say "Come let us blow out the candle of
the Lord that has been set to burn in these
mountains," and would light the true path of
peace and happiness.
	"By their works ye shall know them," what
have been the words and the works of the Saints?
O, all ye inhabitants of the earth cease to sin and
love God; He is so good and kind, merciful, and
long suffering, "therefore are we not consumed."
The Presidents of these United States one after
another look gravely on, take their oaths, and
their seats, to be just in administering the law in
this grand Republic which the Saints have ever
honored and never by oaths' or any other means
have sought to be anything except a sacred por-
tion of this great commonwealth.  We know God
has sent a true Prophet again to the earth, who
has left a record indelible, by staining the soil of
free America brought about through religious
persecution.  He gave good advice even to this
nation, in one instance he said "it would be best
to purchase the slaves and colonize them thus
saving life and treasure;" if we could turn back
the wheels of time the nation might make repairs,
but it is not possible now, and thus it will be again
in regard to the treatment of this people.
	We work for the dead and they are benefited
thereby, it being legally done according to the
order of lineage and of priesthood and no one is
hurt on the earth, but love and kindness is mani-
fested for all the living and the dead.
	Let me a grand-daughter of a Revolutionary
soldier speak to the Honorable President of the
nation and all its lawmakers in behalf of truth, 
how would it be received?  with indifference per

