[column 2]
possessed, and turned to leave the study, when
the minister broke out anew in the most ex-
cited way, "how is it that your people have
taken away more than half of my congrega-
tion? Your mother is at the bottom of all
this, she is the strong pillar of Mormonism in
this place, and you could influence her per-
haps to give up this nonsense about going to
Nauvoo, and the village might become more
flourishing, as it was before those ranting
Mormon Elders came here in November two
years ago."
	Hepsie appreciated fully the embarrassment
of the situation, she could not retaliate, not
even defend her own mother; she saw that
Mrs. M. understood her difficulty and she
knew her to be such a strong minded thorughly
good woman, that it was some relief to think
she would be stoutly defended if she could
once getaway. She tried to say "good morn-
ing" in the midst of the minister's harangue,
but it was quite impossible.
	Mrs. M. put a stop to the scene at last by
saying, "Husband you can scarcely be aware
how you are wounding the feelings of this
dear child; she is not answerable for any of
the mistakes made by the Mormons and has
had nothing to do with their leaving to go
to Nauvoo. Its all folly to talk in that way, 
she came for a certificate and ought to have
it at once."
	By this time Hepsie was in tears, one great
sob after another had welled up until she could
no longer control her emotions.  Mrs. M. put
her arms around her tenderly and said "poor
child, never mind come with me, you shall
have the certificate now," and they left the
study together. Once out of the minister's
presence Hepsie ceased sobbing and Mrs. M.
leaving her alone returned to the study; five
minutes after she came in with the little slip
of white paper on which a few words were
written and signed by Edward Morton D. D.,
Mrs. M. handed the certificate to her and said
while entwining her in her arms, "you are a
brave girl and deserve success, you know how
to control yourself and that is a great thing
in a teacher; I shall be proud to hear you have
done well and I am sure you will."  Then
followed the usual good byes and "remember
me to your dear mother," and Hepsie flew
down the yard and out into the great wide
road. She could not go home until she re-
covered her composure, her mother must not
know what had transpired.  The fresh morn-
ing air soon cooled her heated brow and when
she came in to her mother's room shortly after,
no one would have guessed the struggle she had
gone through.  She held up the paper and
Mrs. H. inquired, "How did the minister re-
ceive you and how is his wife and family?
Did he demur at all because you were a Mor-
mon?"
	"Not exactly" replied the girl "he talked
about seeing the 'Squire first but Mrs. M. in
sisted on my not having to wait."
	"Very kind of her," replied the mother
"she is much superior to him in nobility of
character and in personal attainments; they
could never live on the salary he receives if
she were not always economizing and helping
in various ways."
	"I'm sorry for her and for all minister's
wives that I've ever seen, the husband gets
the honor and the wife contrives to manage
the house and does half the brain work; the
best half too; I hope if I ever marry it will
not be a minister," Hepsie retorted sharply.
	"I hope you'll marry a Mormon Elder and
devote your life and talents to the Latter-day
work," said Mrs, H. enthusiastically.
	"Wait until we go to Nauvoo mother, I
shall not marry until I'm twenty-one or more;
my guardian would not allow it you know, and
he'll stop my going to Nauvoo if he can; I
[column 3]
have never even hinted such a thing to him,
have you mother?"
	"No Hepsie, but I shall not brook any in-
ference in that matter."
	Here the conversation ended either mother
or daughter little realizing what lay before
them in the near future. Preparations were
hurriedly made for Hepsie and on Monday
morning, the open carriage came to convey her
to Beechwoods.
	Her heart was in a great flutter, but her
mother knew it not, outwardly she was cool
and dignified—and away she went to pass the
trying ordeal of a specific examination. She
had no idea what questions would be asked nor
who would be present. The little wagon drew
up in front of an old farm house, she recalled
in a moment as the residence of the trustee, the
front door opened and in a moment more she
was ushered into an old-fashioned square
parlor, where sat in state awaiting her Mr.
Merriam himself.


