A PERFECT HOME.

	The late Helen Hunt Jackson, writing of a
perfect home said: "The most perfect home I
ever saw was a little house into the sweet in-
cense of whose fires went no costly things. A
thousand dollars served as a year's living for
father, mother and three children. But the
mother was the creator of the home; her rela-
tions with the children were the most beautiful
I have ever seen; every inmate of the house
involuntarily looked into her face for the key-
note of the day, and it always rang clear.
From the rose, or clover leaf, which in spite of
her hard housework, she always found time to
put beside our plates at breakfast, down to the
story she had in hand to read in the evening
there was no intermission of her influence.
She has always been and will always be my
ideal of a mother, wife, and homemaker. If
to her quick brain, loving heart, and exquisite
face had been added the appliance of wealth
and enlargements of wide culture, here would
have been absolutely the ideal home.  As it
was, it was the best I have ever seen.—Plain
Talk.


The Law.—Miss E. E. Wright, of Scolin,
has just been admitted to the bar and is the first
woman lawyer in her district.—Miss Rebekah
E. Roberts has been admitted to practice in
the Orphan's court of Philadelphia. She is the
second woman lawyer admitted to the bar of 
that city.—Mrs. Martha Strickland, of Detroit, 
has recently won a case in the Supreme Court
of Michigan, which has been closely contested
the last two years. As often as defeated in the
lower court she applied to the Supreme court for
relief, and has won three successive victories,
the case finally terminating in her favor.
								Ex.


Woman's Exponent

Woman’s Exponent,
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, -	-	March 15, 1890.


