UTAH DELEGATES.
	The people of Utah who are interested in its 
true welfare and especially those who believe in 
woman suffrage and equal political rights will be
gratified to know that Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
had an excellent opportunity afforded her as the 
official representative of the Utah W. S. A. to
make a report of the organized Association in this
Territory. The following is her speech as given
in the Woman's Tribune, Washington D. C.
March 9, 1890.—Ed.
				UTAH.
	Mrs. President and members of the 
Convention: The National Woman Suffrage
Association of Salt Lake City, Utah, held their
annual meeting for the election of officers for the
ensuing year on Saturday, January 11th 1890, at 
which time—
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball was elected president.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards, first vice-president.
	Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, second vice-president.
	Mrs. Caroline E. Dye, third vice-president.
	Miss Rachel Edwards, secretary.
	Mrs. Julia C. Taylor, corresponding secretary.
	Miss Margie Dwyer, treasurer.
	Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie, chairman executive Committee.
	Our Association has three hundred paid up en-
rolled members, exclusive of sixteen branch or-
ganizations in other parts of the Territory. As
results of our meetings, we fully realize that edu-
cation, agitation and united effort are chief factors
in woman's political advancement. We are en-
deavoring to promote interest in the systematic
study of the science of government, and most
gratifying results have followed this course.


There are, in the various cities, towns and vil-
lages throughout the Territory, many able and de-
voted women who earnestly labor for the politi-
cal, moral, and intellectual advancement of wo-
man. Mrs. Mary J. Tanner, president of the
Utah County Branch, died on the 8th of January
last. In her our cause has lost an efficient officer
and a faithful friend. After having exercised the
elective franchise for seventeen years, we deeply feel
the degradation to which we have been subjected
in being deprived of a direct voice in the Gov-
ernment to which we are subject, and of being
relegated to the position of those who suffer under
the principle of “taxation without representation."
We have an institution in our Territory known as
the Deseret University, which admits male and
female students; the management of which, since
its organization, has been in the hands of a
Board of Regents composed entirely of men. We
have deemed it proper and right to have repre-
sentation on that board and, for that purpose, will
petition the Territorial Legislature, which is now
in session, to give us at least two women as mem-
bers of the Board of Regents. Experience has
taught us that a woman armed with the ballot is
endowed with more self-respect and commands
more respectful deference and considerate atten-
tion from men than she can ever claim under her
present servile conditions. With these thoughts
before us, we feel it incumbent upon us to renew
our endeavors to secure that right of suffrage to
which all women are entitled, and we shall not
cease to importune the powers that be, until the
political shackles are stricken from womankind.


