and feel there is a great responsibility resting
upon me in magnifying this office and calling.
But as it has been placed upon me by those
having authority it gives me confidence that if I
strive to do my duty trusting in the Lord for
guidance He will bless my humble efforts to im-
press the minds of the children with the princi-
ples of truth, and that I may be able to do so
is my greatest desire, and that it may be a
labor of love as well as duty, ever hoping
that I may sow some good seed in their hearts
that eventually may spring up and bear good
fruit in years to come. There is one thing
I desire to mention which I think is of great
importance, it is the feeling of indifference
manifested by some of the parents in not
sustaining these organizations; when they have
been instituted for the benefit it would be to
their children if they attended these associa-
tions as they should; some mothers may think
and say they cannot see any good resulting
from these meetings, I most earnestly testify
that there is. It may be small like "little
drops of water and little grains of sand" that
in time make the mighty ocean and the
pleasent land. And if my testimony
is not enough I might add that of many
of our faithful sisters that have labored long
and earnestly in striving to teach the children
of the Latter-day Saints. Now we desire that
the parents be co-workers with us and manifest
an interest that when calls are made upon
them fron time to time they may be prepared
to help carry out our programme. They are
the ones that are benefited the most. How
thankful I would be to-day if I had had these
privileges that our youth enjoy at the present
time of gaining such an experience. If they
will improve these many opportunities they
have in attending Primary, SundaySchool etc.
	I sometimes ask myself the question are
the parents taking as much pains to save their
own children by teaching them the principles
of the Gospel, as the Elders abroad are in con-
verting the unbelievers among the Gentiles.
Is it not possible right here in what we term
Zion (which should be the pure in heart) we
give too little time to teaching our children
the spiritual things, and allow ourselves and
them to become engrossed too much  in the
temporal affairs of every day life. If so, it is
time we aroused from our lethargy and try to
more fully realize the great responsibility that
rests upon us as parents and teachers. We
can read in the 68 section of the Doctrine and
Covenants that the Lord makes it a duty in-
cumbent upon parents to teach their children
the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the
son of the living God, baptism and the laying
on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost
when eight years old; and if they do not the
sins will be on the heads of the parents.
	Now is the time to form their character while
their minds are easily molded like clay in the
hands of the potter. And the impressions that
are made upon their tender minds now become
indelible if continued till they are firmly fixed
so that nothing will efface them. We want to
instil faith in their hearts, faith in the ordinances
of the Gospel that this principle may grow and
increase till it becomes a mighty power in our
midst.
	It being the first principle of religion, it
should be first in our teachings to have faith in
God and believe that He is the Father of our
spirits, and is ever present with us knows our
thoughts, nothing is kept hid from His All see-
[Column 3]
ing eye; and if we will seek Him in faith and
ask aright He will answer our prayers. Our
children are a precious heritage from our
Heavenly Father, they are given to us pure
and He will hold us responsible for the way
we treat this sacred trust. They are given us
to train for a higher existence, and if we neg-
lect our duty in this respect what shall we reap
but sorrow in our declining years. "As we
sow so shall we reap." Truer words are not
to be found in Holy writ let us teach the
children to be virtuous, honest, full of integrety
to the truth, and to shun the very appearance of
evil that they may grow up in the fear of the
Lord be faithful to their religion, and be able
to stand up boldly and defend its principles
in the face of all the world. I believe they
are those noble spirits that have been held in
reserve to come forth in this day for a wise and
special purpose, that they might have this
opportunity to prepare themselves for the com-
ing of our Lord and Savior. How necessary
it is that they should be taught and be made
to understand every principle that has been
revealed in this our day, through the revela-
tion of God to Joseph Smith, and we find in
those revelations that we are to seek for knowl-
edge from the best books, seek learning by
study and by faith, for we cannot be saved
in ignorance, and what ever principle of in-
telligence we attain to in this life will remain
with us in the morning of the resurrection;
what an incentive this should be for us to be
diligent in learning all that we can, that we
may reap good for our reward and thereby
lay up for ourselves treasures in Heaven where
neither moth, or rust doth corrupt. May this
be your happy lot is the humble and sincere
prayer of your Sister in the cause of truth.
						M. Daniels,
Pres. Primary Ass'n. First Ward Provo.


