IN MEMORIAM.

	It has pleased an allwise Providence to take from our
midst our dear Sister Caroline Anderson Folkman the be-
loved wife of C. O. Folkman, of Plain City, Weber Co.,
who departed this life Jan. 25th, 1890. Deceased was
born March. 17th, 1838, at Christianland, Norway. She
received the Gospel as taught by the Elders of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in her native land
when quite a young girl. Emigrated to Utah with her
parents, brothers and sisters and was married to Brother
C. O. Folkman in 1862. Sister Caroline was for years a
Teacher in the Relief Society and was very kind to the sick 
and poor in her district. She strove faithfully to sustain
her family while her husband was away on his several
missions to Scandinavia. She has also done a good work
for her departed relatives in the Temple at Logan. She
was the mother of eight children three of whom are living,
one son a young man and two little girls. Her demise is
severely lamented by her husband, children and friends.
She has suffered for years with disease of the stomach but
when at the Temple she was baptized for her health and
under the hands of the Elders she was healed immediately.
Her strength has been greatly taxed in the past few
months with much sickness in the family, her husband and
little daughter both down at the same time with fever. She
waited on them both night and day until she was worn out,
her heart became so weak, she was obliged to take to her
bed, and gradually sank to rest to await the resurrection
morn. 
								ALMIRA RAYMOND, Pres.
								M. A. W. SPIERS, Sec.
		TO HER TWO LITTLE DAUGHTERS,
			Dear little ones dry up your tears
				And look to God above,


For He will grant you needed strength
		To join the one you love.

	For she has loved you dearer far,
		Than all the world beside;
	Then strive dear children to obey
		Our Lord whate'er betide.

	That you may meet her in that land,
		Where all is peace and joy,
	Where all the Saints will be at rest,
		And nothing can annoy.
								M. A. W. S.
Plain City, March 7th, 1892.


