Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Party Refreshments Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, December 11, 1956 HOLESOME | party _ refreshments should do just what the name implies; they should refresh those who partake of them. They need not be elaborate, highly decorative, nor unique in composition. Simple foods, prepared tastefully in attractive ways, and served in an atmosphere that is unhurried and undisturbed, do more to make refreshments refreshing than all the elaborate details. Before planning refreshments, therefore, it is important to thoughtfully consider: who will attend the party; what time of the day will the refreshments be served; how much time can I afford to give to the prepreparation, and the preparation just prior to serving time; and LESSON DEPARTMENT healthwise, what will my guests enjoy most? A gracious hostess knows that there is an attractive way to serve everything, and that all foods could be party foods if prepared and served daintily and at the nght time and place. In planning her party, she thinks first of the pleasure of her guests. One hostess served the birthday party guests of her five-year-old son, cream tomato soup sprinkled with finely chopped parsley and animal cutouts of cheese-flavored biscuit dough. For dessert, she cut the tops off oranges, scooped out the center, then refilled them with diced fresh fruits. The fruit basket was topped with a small scoop of ice cream and a maraschino cherry. If your guests are teenagers, who never seem able to get quite enough to satisfy their ravenous appetites, plan to serve hearty dishes. Plenty of good tasty food means more to them than the daintiness of it., As we grow older, our needs for food decrease, and our ability to digest some of them becomes somewhat of a problem. It is at this age that many party-goers almost dread the time to come when tefreshments are served. In many cases they are too rich, too hard to digest, and just plain-too-much. The time planned for serving refreshments must also be given consideration. If you plan to serve a complete meal, notify your guests of it and plan the serving time as near the time of regular meals as possible. Note: issue of the Magazine. 629 Choose refreshments that are to be served after ten in the evening, except to teenagers or persons with exceptionally hearty appetites, that are light calorie-wise and easy to digest. Midafternoon refreshments seldom need to consist of more than one or two items, both of which should be more refreshing than filling. The time needed for last-minute preparation of refreshments is important. Too often, hostesses spend the greater part of the party time in the kitchen or hurrying back and forth. Plan refreshments that will require a minimum of last-minute preparation. Beverages are usually important for party refreshments. Choose a kind that will help to give balance to the rest of the meal. A cup of rich chocolate is almost a meal in itself. A too-sweet or too-sour punch served with a too-sweet dessert is not in good taste. 'he dominating flavor of any fruit drink Should be the natural fruit flavor. Punch made from a blend of fruit juices with little or no sugar added, makes a refreshing drink. In many instances, the only beverage that is needed is clear, cold water. Apply the same rules in planning refreshments for your party as are recommended for regular meals. Don't be afraid to personalize your refreshments by doing something different. Make entertaining a challenging, refreshing experience by serving refreshments that your friends haven't thought of. Whatever your refreshments may be, make them truly refreshing. "Refreshments for Entertaining," by Rhea H. Gardner, page 608, in this