RESPONSIBILITIES OF MOTHERS 271
to them privately and get them to teach you how to explain to your daughter. It may save her bitter humiliation later and save you the loss of her confidence. Even though school teachers may know more than you it is better to let them teach it to you and you pass it to your own child.
At the high school and college age, perhaps you think that your intellectual responsibility should be over. Perhaps you say that you never went to high school, so how can you help your children there?
YOU CAN ALWAYS TEACH
Remember that life is the best school. You can always be pretty sure that you know something your child doesn't yet know. And again, he who teaches learns. My own mother was always so eager to share the good things I got in school when I had gone farther than she, that each evening I used to give her a summary of each class or lecture. Many a time after two or three years in high school, I have taken notes of a lecture and gone home and reproduced it to her almost word for word; not because I had a good memory, but because she had trained it for me without my realizing that I was getting far more than I gave. I realize that now, and thank my mother for the help she gave me. But at the time I thought I was doing her a favor by taking the notes and remembering what went between them. You see, it wasn't the quality of the steel in my mind, but it was the sharpening she gave it.
But after all?when you have told your child stories, answered questions, asked questions, let him teach you the things he has learned. Train his memory by encouraging him with praise for what he has accomplished, and support his teachers that he may get all he can from them. Another responsibility, harder to put one's finger on, lies with you in the unguarded moments when you are not thinking about helping the child, when you are just doing your daily work and being yourself. If you are full of the desire for culture, if you are hungry for knowledge, if you love books, music, pictures, good deeds, and high ideals?all the rest will follow. If you love the gospel and seek after everything that is virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy?then, as naturally as the plant turns to the light, your child will also seek these things. For if you love such things you will talk of them admiringly, you will fill your home with them, you will enjoy them with your child. And by this striving after good things to which you lead him, you will sharpen his intelligence, and increase his eternal glory. For the glory of God is intelligence.
A Tribute to Mother By Emily Borgeson Brown
Mother, giver of life and love, Thou who wert sent by God above,? Dear mother, we praise thee.
Thou who so nobly gavest thy heart To the mission thou wert set apart.? Mother, we adore thee.
Thou who hast healed each childish sore With the balm of love,?this and more, Kind mother, we trust thee.
Thou hast taught us, young, to bend the knee, Helped us the Gospel light to see,? Our mother, we thank thee.
Now that thy children all are grown, And youth and vigor have from thee flown, Mother, we plead with thee:
Give us freely of wisdom ripe, Goodness, of which thou art a type; Mother, God bless thee.