[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Visions of Driggs]

Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 6—Visions of the Doctrine and Covenants Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, March 16, 1948
Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of the apocalyptic type of literature. A vision of the future, especially the future of what life holds in another world, can bring the brightest hopes of mankind. In our day the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, has blessed us with glimpses of the celestial realm. In company with a companion on each of two occasions, the Prophet saw the throne of God and bore witness of its beauty and joy.
Once in the year 1832 with Sidney Rigdon, and again in 1836 with Oliver Cowdery, did he see and make an inspired record of these most soul-searching experiences. So real were the visions that the brightness of detail is not lacking in the words that record the happening: The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. Behold,.
Your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore, lift up your heads and rejoice. Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have with their might, built this house to my name. For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here; and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house. Yea, I will appear unto my servants, and speak unto them with mine own voice, if my people will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy house. Yea the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands shall greatly rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this house. And the LESSON DEPARTMENT fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands; and this is the beginning of the In the two Prophet Joseph Smith recorded in sections 76 and 110 of the Doctrine and Covenants, there may be found new light upon the Savior's Phrase, "In my Father's many mansions." But here are the stirring words of the vis- 10n itself and the manner by which it came into being: the fifth chapter of John, which was given unto us as follows: Speaking of the resurrection of the dead, concerning those who shall hear the voice of the Son of an, and shall come forth—they who have One good in the resurrection of the just, 855 and they who have done evil in the resurrection of the unjust, Now this caused us to marvel, for it was given unto us of the Spirit. And while we meditated upon these things, touched the eyes of our understanding and they were opened and the Lord shone round about. Ping God, and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever. And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, experiences into a realm while we are warned not to delve into the mysteries, yet we all yearn to have the soul comfort such with Proverbs 29:18: "Where there is no vision the people perish:" Activities and Readings for Appreciation In today's discussion period the class might well devote its thinking to the degrees of glory as outlined in the 76 section of the Doctrine and Covenants, This may be found in verses 38 to 119 inclusive. The following verses 50-70 refer to those who will inherit the celestial glory: And again we bear record—for we saw and heard, and this is the testimony of the gospel of Christ concerning them who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just— 856 they are they who received the testimony of Jesus, and believed on his name and were baptized after the manner of his burial, being buried in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given—that by keeping the commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power. And who overcome by faith, and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which the Father sheds forth upon all those who are just and true.
They are they who are the church of the Firstborn.
They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things—they are they who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory; and are priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son. Wherefore, as it is written, they are gods, even the sons of God—wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's and Christ is God's. And they shall overcome all things. Wherefore, let no man glory in man, but rather let him glory in God, who shall subdue all enemies under his feet.
These shall dwell in the presence of God and his Christ forever and ever.
These are they whom he shall bring with him, when he shall come in the clouds of heaven to reign on the earth over his people.
These are they who shall have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1947 part in the first resurrection.
These are they who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just.
These are they who are come unto Mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly place, the holiest of all.
These are they who have come to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and church of Enoch, and of the Firstborn.
These are they whose names are written in heaven, where God and Christ are the judge of all.
These are they who are just men made perfect through Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, who wrought out this perfect atonement through the shedding of his own blood.
These are they whose bodies are celestial, whose glory is that of the sun, even the glory of God, the highest of all, whose glory the sun of the firmament is written of as being typical. For an introduction to these verses, have the class consider the following found in Revelations 14:13: Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them. How does the added light, as given through the beautiful passages of the 76 section, bring new meaning to this statement made by John the Divine?