[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Christmas Sayre]

It won't seem like Christmas up here all alone." Lou stroked Roy's brown, curly head. "Sure it will, Son. Don't you see, we're not up here 'all alone? Listen to this: Let Christmas morning come, We'll beat a milk pan for a drum, And call the forest folk together— Beasts of every fur and birds of every feather; And we'll give them Christmas cheer hey'vé missed for many a year,,,, "We'll have fun. Don't you worry about that," Five-year-old Ann climbed on his other knee. "How about Sandy Claus, can he find our house?" "'Course he can, big silly," Roy shouted. "Old Sandy Claus -can find kids anywhere." He shoved his hand into his pocket. "Look, here's my letter to him. Read it, Daddy." Lou took the slip and read: Dear old Sandy Claus: me a jumping jack rabbit a a sock full of candy and nuts, Roy Stuart Page 816
Lou folded the note and handed it back, 1
Could b up here any more than we can make it down the canyon." "He's only teasing you," Roy laughed. "Daddies always talk like that before Christmas."
Louis looked at the glowing faces before him and his breath frittered away.
Words failed him. How could he make them understand that Santa wasn't coming? If the storm had held off one more day, he would have had his little family settled in town for the winter. The day the last load of grain Was sent off to the elevator the sky Save promise of a bright tomorrow, but somewhere between midnight and dawn snow began to fall and a wind came up, blocking the Toad, and for over three weeks he had been trying to dig out, OW it was Christmas Eve and two starry-eyed tots were looking forward to Christmas morning. He looked across the room at Stella, with her brown hair wound into a heavy bun on the back of her neck, unpacking the things she had packed weeks ago to take along in case there was a chance to get away. Her eyes met his. She smiled, but her lashes were wet. SKIDS FOR SANTA "Jumping junipers!" he thought. "Just what are we going to do?" Roy slid off his knee and began hauling a handful of things from his pocket. He sorted out two nails. "Get the hammer, Ann," he said. "Here, Daddy. If we've gotta stay we better drive these nails in the wall to hang our stockings on." - Louis took the big hammer from Ann's small hands. "We'll drive 'em,' he said slowly. "But don't forget what I told you about old St.
Nick maybe getting stalled in the snow up the canyon."  "You're only teasing," Roy giggled, handing his father a nail. "Sandy's reindeer sail right through the air over house tops." Lou drove the nails in the rail above the fireplace and stepped to the window. He fingered his chin and stared hard at the glistening snow over the landscape and at the glittering stars overhead. It had been so for weeks. The sky would hold clear and blue for days while he dug like a rat through the snowdrifts, four and a half miles, to the top of the hill and within a couple. Of miles of the highway, then it would cloud up and storm again be- - fore he could get the family out. But he never gave up hope of getting out, really, until that afternoon. For two days he had used his scraper and team, and this time he was within a stone's throw of the highway, when a breeze stirred up from the north, clouds drifted up from 'the west, arid the sky ran down like 'a leaden screen, behind the saw- 'tooth ridge. And in no time the storm ruined his work. His trenches were packed with fresh white snow which no automobile or team and wagon could buck.
817 STELLA came and stood at his side, looking out upon the far stretch of snow-capped trees. "If old Pete had stayed," she murmured, "the smoke from his chimney would have made it less lonely." Lou snorted. "If I hadn't given the old scalawag a lift to town after he helped me dig out the first time, he could have helped me get packed and we would all be out." "Don't blame Pete," she said. "He warned you not to tinker around.
Said rats and mink were taking on extra heavy fur."  Roy ran up to them. "I'll bet it's Pete's fault. He got mad at me for springing some of his traps. He said he'd bet Sandy would skip right past my stocking this year. Is he a witch, Daddy?" "No, Son," Lou said vacantly, "you should be more careful around his traps."
Stella turned away. "Come on, Children. Now you have your stockings hung you had better get to bed." Roy and Ann scampered into the bedroom, unbuttoning as they went. Lou swung round and looked sharply at Stella. "For the love o'Pete!" he gulped. "Now, what did you say that for?"
Stella stood smiling. "I have it." "Have what?" Lou squinted. "A bright idea," she whispered. "Spill it," Lou said. "We need ideas." "Gingerbread men!" 'she whispered. Lou grabbed at the straw and led her to the kitchen. "In nothing flat," he grinned, "all in shapes of camels and St. Nicks. " She nodded. "With red and green -coats."' 818 He stirred the fire and added wood. "Let's get started," he mumbled. "I'm going to try MY hand at cutting out a rabbit, a monkey, and maybe a jumping jack. And how about you dressing UP 4 fancy doll?" "Quit talking," Roy called. "I Stella put her finger to het lips. "Let's be quiet till they're asleep."
They sat still as mice.
Outside the night wind whistled and moaned message, "Holy night. All is right."
Stella whispered, "Think of the different scenes that old moon and bright star are looking down upon." ee nodded. He tiptoed across the room and closed the bedroom door. "Don't shut it. I can't go to sleep," came Roy's drowsy voice. Lou opened the door again and sat back down beside Stella and waited.
After awhile he stirred the fire and added wood. It was nearing midnight when Stella got out the sugar, flour, shortening, eggs, and spices. Lou tied on an apron and found a paring knife.
Stella mixed and rolled the dough. Together, they cut out shapes, chuckling and laying them carefully on a wide cookie sheet.
While the cookies were baking Lou helped Stella mix red, green, and yellow icing. In twenty minutes she pulled the pan of golden-brown spicy ginger breads from the oven. Lou looked over her shoulder and gripped her arms warmly. "Yummy!" he chuckled. "Lock at that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1947 monkey and those rabbits, and your St.
Nicks and camels! Now for the frosting. --- He stiffened. A hinge had creaked behind him. He turned, guiltily. Roy stood in the doorway, rubbing his eye Stella's hand flew to her throat. Lou stepped forth with apron spread.. "Hey, Daddy," Roy grinned sleepily. "You look like a old woman shooing chickens." "T am," Lou fumbled. "Shooing you back to bed, Mister, if you want Santa Claus to come." "Gimme a cookie and I'll go," Roy "NO!" Lou snapped. "You'll get crumbs—W hat cookies?" "A camel you were talking about. And shoved him back into the bedroom and banged Stella just stood, looking. Lou shrugged. "Skunked again. The innocent little rascal. 1 never could sleep on Christmas Eve, either. You look pale, Stel. Don't g0 to fainting. I feel like jumping out the window." He began pacing the floor. "What in Sam Hill will we do now?"
Stella began frosting cookies. She sighed, "Put these in—" Lou barked low. "No! Roy'll catch on " Stella took a hard breath. "We'll have to explain..- a "Not as long as!
Remember what Christmas meant to me, we won't!" Lou announced. "Not if I have to..-. "What?"
Stella sighed. He dropped astride "That's the rub." SKIDS FOR SANTA HTHE latch hadn't caught and the bedroom door swung slowly open. Roy was sitting up in bed. "Know what I dreamed?" he called out. "I dreamed I saw Sandy Claus coming up the canyon, with a whip whirling over his head and he was driving four old black bears. The bears had bells around their necks and there was a sack of toys in the back of the sled." Lou shut the bedroom door and shot a sidelong glance at Stella. "In after years, it  might be fun telling the kids all about it," he mumbled, in an undertone, "how I ran myself down trying to catch a fawn or a rabbit. How I tried to snare a bird.
Anything to make a little excitement for Christmas morning. How I even jimmied old Pete's window and searched his house for a pelt or two to make furry toys. But the old scamp had left his hut as clean as a whistle." He ran his fingers through his hair. "And now the cookies " Lou lifted his chin and leaned forward.
Were his ears ringing? By golly, had he gone plumb daffy? He must be, to hear bells in this neck of the woods. But Stella was listening, too, not only to bells, but to something else screaming across the night like a siren. Lou sprang to the door and swung it open.
Stella darted to his side. He barked. "Look!
There it is coming down bald ridge like a bullet.
Past old Pete's hut, in a beeline for here!" Roy jumped out of bed and ran to his father's side. Lou caught his hand and Stella's arm. "Look out!" he cried, pulling them aside. The next second the flying object skidded in through the door on a pair of skiis that reached half across the room. On them was a squat form in a red suit and cap, with hair and beard as white as cotton and all matted with frost and icicles. A strand of sleigh-bells was around his neck and on his plump back was a pack with a red and yellow striped whistle sticking out of the top. Lou grinned.
Stella gasped. "It's Sandy Claus," Roy yelped, darting for the bed, diving in and covering up his head.
Louis closed the bedroom door and made sure the latch caught. "Hey!" Roy shouted the next morning, while he danced with Ann around their stockings. "Old Sandy Claus didn't bring me a thing I asked for, except the nuts and candy. But, boy! He knew what I wanted better'n I did."
After awhile he called, "Look, Daddy, smoke is coming out of old Pete’s stovepipe.” Louis Stuart strode to the window, "By golly, there is," he said. "Guess we'll have to ask the old skate over to Christmas dinner." DILEMMA Grace Sayre When Autumn draws the purse strings That hold the summer’s gold, How can Winter warm himself Against the season’s cold?