[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman’s Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1887 “FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS” FROM HUNTINGTON, UTAH: Our Society is in a thriving condition considering
that this is a new place. We have a granary nearly completed which will hold
about one thousand bushels of grain, and hope to have it filled some day. I think we
will have it all paid for this fall. There is a good spirit in our Society. Our monthly
meetings are well attended. — Julia Whitney, Sec.
ITEMS FROM ENGLAND: The Queen (Victoria) is now staying at Balmoral
with the Princess Beatrice, who has just given birth to an infant Princess. . . . The
Prince and Princess of Wales are having a little trouble; their three daughters while
abroad contracted the measles. . . . The Princess has nursed them with untiring devotion,
and by so doing sets an example to all mothers worthy of imitation, and although
a Princess, she never for one moment forgets that she is a mother, and her children
claim her attention and care before all else. — Marion
TO THE BELOVED MEMORY OF ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH
Would that my muse might fitting numbers wake,
Mem'ry sweet echoes for a loved one's sake;
But, oh! too feeble and too sad my voice,
Hers spoke but to make music and rejoice —
Supreme o'er sorrow and life's varied wrongs,
Her soul learned lessons that she wrought in songs.
— Augusta Joyce Crocheron
A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION: Early on the morning of Monday, December 5,
1887, in the Lion House, Salt Lake City, at five minutes past one o'clock, the spirit of
our beloved "Sister Eliza" passed away from earth, as she herself had so beautifully
expressed, "To unite with the choirs in celestial love" .... Her name is engraved imperishably
in the hearts of the people. Her life and character were in perfect keeping
with the holy religion she had embraced. Her example is before all Israel, and accords
harmoniously with the teachings she has given, and the precepts she has taught. — Ed.
LETTER FROM ARIZONA: Dear Sisters:— Letters are the links that bind us
to our old homes, friends and associations; the carrier doves bearing the messages from
heart to heart. Would it not be terrible if we could not write to our absent ones, and
yet how many fail to improve this great privilege. We have moved our "camp" again
(it seems to me that all Israel is one "tented field" just now), this only makes nine
times that I have changed my abiding place since I came here. . . . We are located at
present near a very large ruin, one of those monuments of a departed race, that are
found to be everywhere in this land. . . . This place is improving slowly; it takes hard
work, time, patience and perseverance, with the blessings of God to redeem the waste
places of Zion. — S.E.R.
MISCELLANEOUS: We can be thankful to a friend for a few acres, or a little
money; and yet for the freedom and command of the whole earth, and for the great