[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Sincerity Viner]
856 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1947 
they  are  they  who  received  the  testimony 
of  Jesus,  and  believed  on  his  name  and 
were  baptized  after  the  manner  of  his  bur- 
ial, being  buried  in  the  water  in  his  name, 
and  this  according  to  the  commandment 
which  he  has  given — that  by  keeping  the 
commandments  they  might  be  washed 
and  cleansed  from  all  their  sins,  and  re- 
ceive the  Holy  Spirit  by  the  laying  on  of 
the  hands  of  him  who  is  ordained  and 
sealed  unto  this  power.  And  who  overcome 
by  faith,  and  are  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit 
of  promise,  which  the  Father  sheds  forth 
upon  all  those  who  are  just  and  true. 
They  are  they  who  are  the  church  of  the 
Firstborn.  They  are  they  into  whose  hands 
the  Father  has  given  all  things — they  are 
they  who  are  priests  and  kings,  who  have 
received  of  his  fulness,  and  of  his  glory; 
and  are  priests  of  the  Most  High,  after  the 
order  of  Melchizedek,  which  was  after  the 
order  of  Enoch,  which  was  after  the  order 
of  the  Only  Begotten  Son. 
Wherefore,  as  it  is  written,  they  are 
gods,  even  the  sons  of  God — wherefore, 
all  things  are  theirs,  whether  life  or  death, 
or  things  present,  or  things  to  come,  all  are 
theirs  and  they  are  Christ's  and  Christ  is 
God's.  And  they  shall  overcome  all 
things.  Wherefore,  let  no  man  glory  in 
man,  but  rather  let  him  glory  in  God,  who 
shall  subdue  all  enemies  under  his  feet. 
These  shall  dwell  in  the  presence  of  God 
and  his  Christ  forever  and  ever. 
These  are  they  whom  he  shall  bring 
with  him,  when  he  shall  come  in  the  clouds 
of  heaven  to  reign  on  the  earth  over  his 
people.     These  are  they  who  shall  have 
part  in  the  first  resurrection.  These  are 
they  who  shall  come  forth  in  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  just.  These  are  they  who  are 
come  unto  Mount  Zion,  and  unto  the  city 
of  the  living  God,  the  heavenly  place,  the 
holiest  of  all.  These  are  they  who  have 
come  to  an  innumerable  company  of 
angels,  to  the  general  assembly  and  church 
of  Enoch,  and  of  the  Firstborn.  These  are 
they  whose  names  are  written  in  heaven, 
where  God  and  Christ  are  the  judge  of  all. 
These  are  they  who  are  just  men  made 
perfect  through  Jesus  the  mediator  of  the 
new  covenant,  who  wrought  out  this  per- 
fect atonement  through  the  shedding  of 
his  own  blood.  These  are  they  whose  bod- 
ies are  celestial,  whose  glory  is  that  of  the 
sun,  even  the  glory  of  God,  the  highest  of 
all,  whose  glory  the  sun  of  the  firmament 
is  written  of  as  being  typical. 
For  an  introduction  to  these  vers- 
es, have  the  class  consider  the  fol- 
lowing found  in  Revelations  14:13: 
Blessed  are  the  dead  which  die  in  the 
Lord  from  henceforth :  Yea,  saith  the  Spirit, 
that  they  may  rest  from  their  labours;  and 
their  works  do  follow  them. 
How  does  the  added  light,  as  giv- 
en through  the  beautiful  passages  of 
the  76  section,  bring  new  meaning 
to  this  statement  made  by  John  the 
Divine? 
What  are  the  lines  in  this  revela- 
tion that  give  poetic  hope  and  joy 
to  those  who  are  faithful? 
SINCERITY 
Evelyn  Wooster  Viner 
Grieve  not  for  days  of  autumn, 
Grieve  not  for  the  setting  sun, 
But  grieve  for  tasks  unfinished 
When  daylight  hours  are  done. 
Grieve  not  for  pain  and  heartbreak, 
Grieve  not  for  friends  untrue, 
But  grieve  if  you  are  false 
To  that  which  dwells  in  you.

LESSON  DEPARTMMENT 
857 
Social  Science — Essentials  in  Home  Training 
Lesson  5— Refinement 
Elder  Joseph  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  March  23,  1948 
Objective:  To  show  that  refinement  enriches  one's  own  life  as  well  as  the  lives  of 
one's  associates,  that  it  embodies  all  that  is  gentle,  considerate,  and  uplifting. 
OEFINEMENT  includes  all  that 
is  fine  in  manners,  taste,  and 
feeling,  and  discards  all  that  is 
coarse,  vulgar,  and  low.  It  is  a  sub- 
tle something  that  one  instinctively 
senses  in  another,  but  which  is  diffi- 
cult to  adequately  describe.  One 
who  is  refined  has  trained  and  dis- 
ciplined his  nature  over  long  years, 
until  the  fineness  of  character  is 
deeply  ingrained. 
A  person  of  refinement  need  not 
dress  expensively  nor  in  style,  but 
must  be  neat  and  dressed  with  a  dig- 
nity that  denotes  something  money 
cannot  buy.  He  is  gracious  to  those 
he  contacts.  His  demeanor  sets  peo- 
ple at  ease  and  he  is  conscious  of 
others'  well-being  rather  than  his 
own.  Refinement  excludes  vanity. 
The  truly  great  are  not  snobbish,  but 
the  would-be  great  oftentimes  are. 
Illustrating  this  point,  an  interesting 
incident  is  told  by  a  house  guest  of 
Jeritza,  the  noted  soprano : 
I  was  staying  once  with  the  famous  opera 
singer,  Jeritza,  in  her  lovely  home  in  the 
Tyrol  (Austria),  when  some  street  singers 
from  Vienna  asked  to  be  allowed  to  come 
and  sing  to  her.  They  came  and  gave  us 
a  concert  in  her  garden.  It  was  a  pictur- 
esque scene,  the  low  white  house  with 
green  shutters,  the  blazing  garden  sleeping 
m  the  heat,  the  vast  lake  with  its  ring  of 
majestic  mountains.  The  singers  were 
admirable,  but  it  was  the  great  prima  don- 
na's demeanor  toward  them  which  made 
the  occasion  really  memorable  to  me.  She 
applauded  with  obvious  enjoyment  and 
laughed   whole-heartedly  at   their  humor 
like  a  joyous  school  girl.  She  treated  them 
quite  naturally  as  her  equals  in  the  equal- 
ity of  brother  and  sister  artists.  She  went 
in  and  out  among  them  without  a  shadow 
of  patronage.  Afterwards  I  said  to  her, 
"You  may  be  a  great  singer,  but  unquest- 
ionably you  are  a  greater  audience"  (Al- 
bert Victor  Baillie,  the  Dean  of  Wind- 
sor: The  Making  of  a  Man,  pp.  57,  58). 
Our  pioneer  ancestors  were  among 
the  truly  refined  and  cultured,  and 
they  did  not  allow  the  long,  arduous 
trek  across  the  plains  to  rob  them  of 
that  refinement.  By  great  effort  and 
inconvenience,  they  brought  with 
them  a  few  treasured  possessions- 
some  good  books,  a  musical  instru- 
ment, or  a  choice  picture.  Flower 
seeds  were  carefully  tied  in  a  sack 
and  carried  with  them  so  that  their 
new  homes,  no  matter  how  crude  or 
small,  could  be  beautified  with  the 
color  and  loveliness  of  growing 
things.  Their  ideals  were  high  and 
their  attention  concentrated  on  the 
worthwhile  values  of  life.  Food  and 
shelter  were  not  the  only  things  of 
worth  to  them.  They  were  not  con- 
tent with  mere  existence— they  de- 
sired an  abundant  life.  They  did 
everything  in  their  power  to  improve 
themselves  along  cultural  lines— in 
education,  music,  drama,  and  art. 
How  Can  Refinement  Be 
Made  a  Part  of  the  Home? 
Everything  in  the  home  may  be- 
speak refinement.  It  matters  not 
whether  the  home  is  costly  or  has 
elaborate  furnishings.  Even  modest

858 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1947 
homes  can  have  a  few  good  pictures 
which  leave  a  lifelong  impression  on 
members  of  the  family,  or  some  good 
books  and  periodicals  which  instill 
an  appreciation  for  good  literature. 
Good  music  may  be  had  in  every 
home,  if  through  no  other  medium 
than  the  radio.  The  selection  of  the 
music  is  what  matters.  Participation 
in  any  of  the  arts  has  a  refining  in- 
fluence upon  one's  life.  It  is  possible 
for  one  to  appreciate  the  arts  mere- 
ly through  observing  and  listening, 
but  the  appreciation  will  be  en- 
hanced if  one  studies  or  actually 
takes  part  in  one  of  them. 
Courtesy  is  one  phase  of  refine- 
ment. It  is  generally  agreed  that 
children  of  the  present  generation 
do  not  manifest  the  courtesy  of  for- 
mer days.  In  fact,  it  would  appear 
at  times  that  they  take  pride  in  being 
rude.  Whether  the  cause  of  this  is 
the  modern  idea  that  children 
should  not  be  inhibited,  we  cannot 
be  sure,  but  it  is  certain  that  most 
parents  do  not  teach  nor  stress  nor 
demand  courtesy,  as  in  days  gone  by. 
And  children  do  not  often,  of  them- 
selves, pick  up  those  ways. 
Courtesy  is  nothing  more  nor  less 
than  consideration  for  others,  or  as 
the  oft-repeated  phrase  says,  "Polite- 
ness is  to  do  and  say  the  kindest 
thing  in  the  kindest  way."  Many 
illustrations  of  the  lack  of  courtesy 
may  be  observed.  One  will  serve  as 
an  example:  a  very  refined,  scholar- 
ly young  man  whom  the  writer 
knows,  was  seen  seated  near  the  rear 
of  a  bus.  At  one  of  the  high  schools, 
a  large  group  of  noisy  boys  and  girls 
boarded  the  already  crowded  bus, 
with  the  result  that  many  of  the 
girls  had  to  stand.  The  young  man, 
before  mentioned,  stood  up  and,  in 
his  very  precise  language,  said  to  a 
An  Ideal 
Christmas  Gift 
A  book  of  favorite  recipes  com- 
piled for  those  who  know  and 
love  good  food  by  Angie  Earl, 
for  10  years  cateress  at  Salt
