[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Where Chapter]
780 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
about  his  loins;  and  his  meat  was 
locusts  and  wild  honey."  His  mes- 
sage was  one  calling  for  repentance 
and  a  clean  life.  Ceremonials  and 
outward  forms  of  Jewish  origin 
would  be  no  longer  the  only  criterion 
for  religious  life.  He  called  upon  the 
people  everywhere  to  repent  "for 
the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand." 
One  mightier  than  he  was  soon  to 
appear. 
John's  mission  was  one  to  prepare 
the  people  for  the  coming  of  their 
Lord.  He  baptized  with  water,  but 
one  should  come  who  would  baptize 
with  "the  Holy  Ghost  and  with 
fire."  It  was  a  new  message.  He 
scathingly  rebuked  hypocrisy  and 
called  for  a  humble  life,  devoted  to 
serving  God  and  keeping  his  com- 
mandments in  the  truest  sense  of 
the  term.  The  people  were  in  the 
fold  of  Abraham  when  they  lived 
the  gospel  as  taught  by  Abraham. 
Many  people  were  convinced  by 
his  burning  words  and  asked:  "What 
shall  we  do  then?"  Though  revolu- 
tionary, the  answer  was  plain  and 
clear-cut:  "He  that  hath  two  coats, 
let  him  impart  to  him  that  hath 
none;  and  he  that  hath  meat,  let  him 
do  likewise"  (Luke  3:11).  It  was  a 
call  for  love,  for  service  to  fellow 
men,  for  helpfulness  and  good  will 
toward  those  in  distress.  His  call  to 
repentance  was  not  limited  to  one 
class  or  creed.  It  was  to  all  men 
everywhere.  Mark,  a  youthful  con- 
vert, said  it  was  "The  beginning  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God"  (Mark  1:1).  John  not 
only  preached  "the  kingdom  of  heav- 
en is  at  hand,"  but  that  the  King 
was  there. 
Then  went  out  to  him  Jerusalem,  and  all 
Judea,  and  all  the  region  round  about  Jor- 
dan, and  were  baptized  of  him  in  Jordan, 
confessing  their  sins  (Matt.  3:5-6). 
Then  came  one  lesson  for  all  men 
everywhere  to  remember.  The  Cre- 
ator of  the  world— the  Lord  Omnip- 
otent—came from  Galilee  to  Jordan 
unto  John,  to  be  baptized  of  him.  It 
is  doubtful  that  John's  recognition 
was  full  and  complete  at  first,  but 
he  did  recognize  the  sinlessness  and 
greatness  of  the  character  before 
him.  Knowing  that  baptism  was 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  "John  for- 
bade him,  saying,  I  have  need  to  be 
baptized  of  thee,  and  comest  thou 
to  me?" 
The  Mighty  One  replied:  "Suffer 
it  to  be  so  now:  for  thus  it  becometh 
us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness"  (Matt. 
Jesus  humbly  complied  with  the 
same  law  that  is  required  of  the  low- 
liest of  the  candidates  for  the  celes- 
tial kingdom: 
And  Jesus,  when  he  was  baptized,  went 
up  straightway  out  of  the  water:  and  lo, 
the  heavens  were  opened  unto  him,  and  he 
saw  the  Spirit  of  God  descending  like  a 
dove,  and  lighting  upon  him:  And  lo  a 
voice  from  heaven,  saying,  This  is  my  be- 
loved Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased 
(Matt.  3:16-17). 
In  addition  to  the  form  and  neces- 
sity of  baptism,  the  incident  also 
teaches  unmistakably  the  distinct  in- 
dividuality and  personage  of  the 
three  members  of  the  Godhead. 
Note  our  first  article  of  faith  with 
reference  to  the  account  in  the  New 
Testament  of  the  baptism  of  Jesus. 
The  lesson  should  be  very  carefully 
studied.    It  is  vital. 
Following  the  baptism  of  the 
Savior,  occurred  one  of  the  most  re- 
markable episodes  in  history.  The 
Lord  decided  to  go  into  solitary  se-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  781 
elusion  while  he  worked  upon,  may  world.  Surely,  the  Father  would 
we  say,  "mapped  out,"  his  future  not  be  offended  at  the  exercise  of 
course  of  action.  He  must  not  be  creative  powers  again.  He  knew 
disturbed  while  he  studied,  fasted,  now  that  he  was  the  "beloved  Son" 
and  prayed.  It  must  not  be  assumed  of  the  Father.  Why  not  satisfy  his 
that  the  chief  purpose  of  the  experi-  intense  hunger  and  demonstrate  to 
ence  in  the  wilderness  was  to  be  his  fallen  brother  the  power  which 
tempted  and  to  show  that  the  Lord  the  Creator  possessed?  Note  the  re- 
could  withstand  temptation.  It  was  ply:  "It  is  written,  Man  shall  not  live 
a  period  of  communion  with  God  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word 
and  his  angels,  a  period  to  prepare  that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of 
for  some  of  the  greatest  events  of  all  God"  (Matt.  4:4).  Satan  was  apt 
time.  He  needed  and  wanted  prep-  at  quoting  scripture,  a  practice  often 
aration.  He  was  the  "master  teach-  resorted  to  by  those  who  are  work- 
er." The  clarion  call  is  for  all  who  ing  his  terrible  will.  The  humble 
teach  to  prepare.  The  Savior  "pro-  Nazarene  came  back  with  a  ready 
gressed  step  by  step,"  as  all  must  do.  quotation  from  the  scriptures,  which 
To  begin  with,  he  must  have  known  he  knew  so  well,  and  which  he 
something  of  his  particular  mission  could  apply  so  well.  Jesus  had  met 
and  status.  His  Father  acknowledged  triumphantly  the  first  satanic  on- 
him;  the  Holy  Ghost  had  come  to  slaught.  The  temptation  had  failed, 
him,  and  had  surely  borne  witness  Lucifer  changed  his  tactics.  He 
to  his  glorious  divinity.  would  try  once  more  the  appeal  to 
For  forty  days  and  nights  he  fast-  p0Wer  and  vanity.  Jesus  was  stand- 
ed,  prayed,  and  studied.  His  physical  ing  on  the  high  pinnacle  of  the  tern- 
being  was  brought  into  perfect  sub-  pie.  Satan  first  reminded  Jesus,  "If 
jection  to  his  spirit.  At  the  end  of  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  cast  thyself 
that  strenuous  period,  he  was  hun-  down."  Again,  he  appealed  to  the 
gry.  Who  wouldn't  be?  Lucifer,  scripture  to  prove  that  God  would 
the  proud  and  crafty  archenemy  of  be  mindful  of  his  Son.  And,  again, 
all  righteousness,  knew  the  power  of  the  Lord  met  the  challenge  glorious- 
hunger  and  what  men  will  do  to  ]y  by  quoting  scripture:  "It  is  writ- 
satisfy  its  cravings.  Here  was  an-  ten  again,  Thou  shalt  not  tempt  the 
other  chance  to  thwart  the  designs  Lord  thy  God."  Of  course,  to  have 
of  the  Father.  Not  only  was  food  a  yielded,  our  Lord  could  have  ex- 
great  temptation  to  the  hungry,  but  ploited  a  great  feat  and  been  adver- 
the  chance  to  exhibit  great  power  tised  far  and  wide.  That,  however, 
was,  to  the  natural  man,  a  sore  is  not  his  way  of  doing  things,  as  we 
temptation.  Lincoln  once  said,  in  shall  show  by  subsequent  events, 
effect  tbat  the  desire  for  power  is  Tesus  had  been  victorious  and  re- 
one  of  the  most  compelling  passions  [ained  his  Qwn  innate  g^^ss.  God 
of  the  human  heart.  alone  determines  the  time  and  place 
Here  was  Satan  s    double  oppor-  .          .     ,        .,, ,          £        j 
tunity.    Satan:  "If  thou  be  the  Son  when  miracles  Wl11  be  Performed- 
of  God,  command  that  these  stones  Satan  probably  reserved  his  great- 
be  made  bread."   Jesus,  under  the  di-  est  temptation  for  his  last  great  ef- 
rection  of  his  Father,  had  made  the  fort.   The  appeal  to  vanity  and  pow-

782 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
er  is  intriguing.  From  the  top  of  a 
high  mountain,  Satan  promised 
Jesus  wealth,  power,  and  glory  if,  in 
return,  the  Master  would  worship 
the  tempter.  Whether  Lucifer  had 
power  to  make  good  on  his  promise 
is  beside  the  question.  The  glitter- 
ing temptation  was  held  out.  Cer- 
tainly, between  the  two  of  them,  it 
could  have  been  accomplished.  The 
strength  of  Immanuel  is  clearly 
shown  in  his  reply: 
Get  thee  hence,  Satan:  for  it  is  written, 
Thou  shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and 
him  only  shalt  thou  serve  (Matt.  4:10). 
No  wonder  that,  after  the  devil 
left,  angels  came  and  ministered  to 
Christ  the  Lord. 
Questions  and  Suggestions  for 
Discussion 
1.  Relate  the  circumstances  leading  to 
the  visit  to  the  temple  when  Jesus  was 
twelve  years  old.  What  convincing  state- 
ment did  he  make  which  shows  that  he 
clearly  understood  something  of  his  divine 
calling? 
2.  What  was  the  outstanding  message 
of  John  the  Baptist?  Tell  briefly  the  in- 
cidents of  his  ministry. 
3.  Describe  the  baptism  of  Jesus.  How 
does  it  prove  that  there  is  more  than  one 
member  of  the  Godhead? 
4.  Discuss  the  experiences  of  the  Lord  in 
the  wilderness  and  the  preparation  for  his 
ministry. 
■Our  Pioneer 
Visiting  cJeachers'   illessageS' 
Heritage 
Lesson  5— Cultural  Activities 
President  Amy  Blown  Lyman 
For  Tuesday,  February  3,  1948 
Objective:  To  stimulate  a  deeper  appreciation  of  the  different  cultural  activities  of 
the  pioneers  in  order  to  better  evaluate  in  a  more  understanding  way  similar  activities 
today. 
TTHE  foundation  for  cultural  ac- 
tivities among  Latter-day  Saints 
was  laid  in  pioneer  times.  Education, 
with  drama,  music,  and  other  fine 
arts,  all  received  attention  and  were 
fostered  according  to  the  resources 
of  each  community  and  each  period. 
In  Kirtland  and  in  Nauvoo,  schools 
of  learning  were  established;  and  in 
temporary  settlements  on  the  plains, 
schools  were  held  in  private  homes. 
In  Nauvoo  there  were  music  and  art 
classes,  lecture  courses,  a  debating 
society,  and  a  home  dramatic  club. 
For  the  encouragement  of  the  dra- 
ma, a  combined  theater  and  dance 
hall  was  provided.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  believed  in  a  high  type  of  rec- 
reation, and  encouraged  their  chil- 
dren to  sing,  and  to  read  and  recite 
good  literature. 
In  Utah,  elementary  schools  were 
established  at  once,  and,  soon  after- 
ward, these  were  followed  by  Church 
schools,  high  schools,  and  universi- 
ties. In  the  beginning  books  were 
scarce,  but,  in  1852,  a  library  of  2,000 
volumes  was  hauled  across  the  plains

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
783 
by  ox  team,  and  in  the  autumn  of 
the  same  year,  Wilford  Woodruff 
arrived  with  two  tons  of  books. 
The  drama  flourished  in  Utah, 
even  in  the  first  and  second  decades. 
In  the  Social  Hall  ("Little  Thea- 
ter") and  in  the  Salt  Lake  Theater, 
called  by  Henry  Miller  "a  cathedral 
in  the  wilderness,"  first-class  drama, 
including  Shakespeare's  plays,  was 
presented  by  the  home  dramatic 
company,  assisted  later  by  nationally 
known  artists. 
The  great  Tabernacle  organ,  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  and  the  orches- 
tra all  did  their  part  in  producing  cul- 
tural atmosphere  in  Utah. 
The  Tabernacle  itself,  famed  for 
its  acoustic  properties,  was  one  of 
the  great  community  assets,  attract- 
ing many  noted  singers  and  music- 
ians, all  of  whom  left  their  impres- 
sions on  the  public.  Adelina  Patti 
is  quoted  as  saying: 
Never  have  I  encountered  such  perfect 
resonance  as  here  in  the  Tabernacle.  Why, 
my  voice  is  twice  as  large  here.  It  carried 
farther  and  with  ever  so  much  more  tone 
than  in  any  other  hall  I  have  ever  sung  in. 
Salt  Lake  City  was  the  natural  cen- 
ter of  cultural  activities,  and  the  pat- 
terns set  there  were  soon  followed 
throughout  other  Church  communi- 
ties. In  every  local  community  there 
was  a  day  school,  and  in  many  of 
them  a  night  school  for  adults.There 
was  a  choir  for  Church  services,  a 
singing  school,  some  stringed  music 
for  concerts  and  dances,  a  brass 
band,  and  a  dramatic  club.  Pageants
