[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Gertrude R. Garff Spafford]

Gertrude R. Garff Released as Counselor in General Presidency President Belle S. Spafford T the officers meeting of the general Relief Society conference held Thursday morning, October 2, 1947, the announcement of the release of Sister Gertrude R. Garff as second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society, and as a member of the General Board, was announced by President Belle S. Spafford. 'This action was made necessary because of Sister Garff's heavy home responsibilities. In tendering her resignation, Sister Garff stated, "The additional care of my six months' old baby is very time-consuming, and I find that my older children are in greater need of my personal attention to their problems now than they have ever been before. My home responsibilities are becoming ever greater from day to day." Sister Gartff was named a member of the General Board of Relief Society in January 1940 at the time Sister Amy Brown Lyman as called to preside as General President of the Society. In April 1945 she was called to serve as counselor to Sister Belle S. Spafford in the General Presidency. Since her appointment to this position, Sister Garff, in addition to her general duties as counselor, has had general supervision of the Temple-Burial Clothes Department of the General Board and also of the Mormon Handicraft Shop. She served as chairman of the October general conference committee for 1945 and GERTRUDE R. GARFF 1947 and as chairman of the stake convention committee for 1946. She has also served continuously as a member of the General Church Welfare clothing committee. Sister Garff's strong testimony of the gospel, her training, experience, and charm of personality admirably fitted her for the work which has been hers as a member of the General Board and as counselor in the Presidency, and her contribution to the work of the Society is deeply appreciated. Her good judgment has made her a wise and valued counselor. She has endeared herself to her associates, and it is with a sincere sense of regret that the members of the General Board part with her as one of their number. Page 803