[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Poem | Title: Womans Cannon]

benefits of our being, our life, health, and reason, we look upon ourselves as under no obligation. Serena. Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HPHE custom of sending Christmas
cards to friends had its origin in
England in 1846. It was introduced
into America in the late '70's. During
the last decade America's most
renowned artists have designed
holiday cards. Among them is
one noted woman, Andree Ruellan.
MISTLETOE, still used by housewives
as a Christmas decoration,
has had special significance
since primitive times. The druids believed
it h ad magical healing powers
and called it "all-heal."
f\F the seven Americans who
shared in the 1946 Nobel international
prize awards, one was a
woman, Miss Emily Greene Balch,
then 79, Wellesley, Massachusetts.
The peace prize of $34,000 was divided
between her and an American
man. Born in Boston and educated
at Bryn Mawr, Miss Balch
taught economics and sociology at
Wellesley College. In 1915 she
was a delegate to the International
Congress of Women at the Hague.
In 1936 she was elected honorary
president of the Women's International
League for peace and freedom.
Towards the end of 1946 she
spent twelve weeks at the Luxembourg
Congress of that organization.
HPHE women of Britain, still suffering
rigorous postwar hardships,
were grimly relieved when
Princess Elizabeth wore a new
trousseau suit with the skirt but a
few inches below the knees. "I
should think so," was the sentiment.
The British public heartily approves
the marriage of the Princess to
Lieutenant Philip Mountbatten. It
also approved her joining, at her
own insistence, the Auxiliary Territorial
Service, during the war, and
working from ten to five daily, as
an auto mechanic and truck driver.
pRINCESS Juliana of Holland has
become queen regent during her
mother's illness.
MRS. JENNIE M. THOMAS, of
Salt Lake City, was one of
the first seventy-four Americans to
serve as postwar exchange teachers
in England. Her post was in a secondary
girls' s chool in Sussex, with
headquarters in Mayfair, London.
She considers the exchange experiment
successful and feels great admiration
for the people of Great
Britain and their Spartan attitude in
the face of physical discomfort.
TN order to carry out President Truman's
wishes for savings by the
American housewife, so that America
may meet her proposed quota of
food shipments to Europe, Mrs.
Bess Truman has taken over the direction
of t he White House kitchen
herself. While Mr. Truman was