[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Importance of the Benson]

This night is his; and candles cast a glow On childish silhouettes against the snow. THE INPORTANCE OF THE “FAMILY HOUR” Elder Ezra Tatt Benson Member, Member, Council of the Twelve [Excerpts from an address delivered at the first session of the 118
Semi-Annual General Conference, October 3, 1947]. THE desire for home and family is a strong and natural impulse ....The family is a divine institution established by our Heavenly Father. It is basic to civilization and particularly to Christian civilization. The establishment of a home is not only a privilege, but marriage and the bearing, rearing, and proper training of children are duties of the highest order ....
This is a serious obligation.
Down through the years the First Presidency of the Church and other leaders have counseled us and have admonished regarding the sacred obligation of parenthood and the teaching of children in the home. It was during the ministry of President Joseph F.
Smith that a new project was organized and announced in the Church, and a letter directed to presidents of stakes, bishops of wards, and parents in Zion, from which I quote the following: We advise and urge the inauguration of a "Home Evening" throughout the Church, at which time fathers and mothers may gather their boys and girls about them in the home and teach them the word of the Lord. . . .Subsequently, President Heber J. G rant reaffirmed the instructions previously given and officially endorsed the holding of a family hour in the home as an effective means through which the gospel might be taught to our children and the bonds of love and affection strengthened between parents and children ....During the past few months, the Council of the Twelve, under the direction of the First Presidency, have given further  consideration to the powerful influences which tend to destroy the home and weaken the relationship between parents and children. As a result, a letter has been directed by President George F.
Richards to presidents of stakes and bishops of wards recommending a revival and further motivation of this project inaugurated under the leadership of President Joseph F.
Smith many years ago. The Council has called to its aid the Presiding Bishopric, heads of the Church auxiliaries, and, of course, the local Priesthood in the stakes and the wards. A major responsibility has been delegated to the Relief Society, and through this great organization of women, mothers in Israel— those who play such an important part in the training of our children— has been given the responsibility of the preparation of certain materials, as helps to parents.