[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Where Peace Crawford]

Vice-President, Mrs. Truman did her own cooking. EDITORIAL Vol 34. December 1967 No. 12 Where Peace Begins 
Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you; not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid (John 14:27).
THE yearning for peace is always with us, an urgent desire of those who seek the true meaning of life. Particularly at Christmas time our hearts are filled with a great longing to see the establishment of peace upon the earth, that other gifts may be added unto it.
And yet the path to peace is not easily ascended; the path to peace is little understood. It is a way that few individuals, few nations have found. The world, as a whole, has never achieved it.
Long ago in the hill country of Judea the Savior taught that peace must begin with the individual. It must first be a spiritual attainment. When all the intricate values of life are weighed and given their proper proportions, then personal peace is established. It does not depend wholly upon time or place or age, nor even upon the conditions of health or economic position, for peace is essentially an attitude whereby a person realizes that he may control his own spiritual destiny. As Paul, the apostle, explained, "to be spiritually minded is life and peace" (Romans 8:6).
The individual does not stand alone, however. The phases of life are like the ripples from a stone thrown into a placid lake. Each ripple reaches out and becomes a part of a larger circle. Each well-adjusted and harmonious family brings relatives and friends and social groups into an ever-widening circle of accord.
Thus, we who hope for peace in the world should remember that our own houses must be set in order before we can be an example which will merit the respect of other people and will be an influence in creating harmony in the world.
Peace, moreover, involves the direct truth: I am my brother's keeper. No group can find an ideal peace when want and insecurity exist among its members. This principle was clearly understood by our early Church leaders and is recognized today in our extensive and effective Church Welfare Program, and in the unity which binds Church members together for a common purpose.
A nation which has not established peace within its borders is fundamentally weak whatever be the outface veneer of power. When strength and well-being and opportunity are sacrificed to strife, the strong, high walls of a nation begin to crumble.
In this season of Christmas let us remember the significance of the angels' message, which was intended for all men everywhere to hear. It is world peace for which we must work and pray. No lesser objective will satisfy our highest hopes. It is world peace for which the cherished anthems are sung. It is world peace of which carolers think as they sing
the well-beloved songs of many nations.
For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: And the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The Mighty God, the everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace (Isaiah 9:6).
—V. P. C.