[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Comments Readers]
Main SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Comments Magazine Readers I'm twenty-two years old. I have been a Latter-day Saint since I was eight years old. I quit going to Church three years ago, but in reading the wonderful lessons and quotations in your Magazine I have resolved to do all I can in renewing my faith in our beautiful Church. I have never read more inspiring articles than I have in the past week in your wonderful Magazine. I just couldn't refrain from letting you know my honest feelings—Salt Lake City. I have enjoyed reading our Relief Society Magazine, ever since it was published as the Woman's Exponent. I was ninety years old on the 6th of March. Most of my life I have spent helping to build up branches, wards, and stakes in five different states. My first pioneering was a mission to help colonize Arizona.—Salt Lake City, Utah. I gave, as Christmas presents, seven subscriptions to the Magazine, to one daughter, three daughters-in-law, and to three sisters. I feel that I am doing my bit of missionary work in putting our Magazine into their homes, and I have received grateful remarks from all—Logan, Utah. I want to take this opportunity of telling you how much I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine, for the helpful hints and instruction. Ever since I have been able to read, I have read each issue, for Mother has had it in her home for twenty-five or thirty years, and I have had it in mine for two years now, and hope to as long as I have my own home. May the Lord bless you in your efforts to keep The Relief Society Magazine coming to the many homes it reaches each month, and bless you in finding the best material possible—Oakland, California. Received my splendid reading book called The Relief Society Magazine today. I wouldn't take dollars for the spiritual values and information contained therein. I sincerely appreciate this book and value its contents highly. I am just a young girl, single, but I wish all young girls would attend Relief Society. 'They would benefit greatly —Kansas City, Missouri. I have been going to write for a long time to tell you how very much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. It is well worth its weight in gold and so reasonable in price. I wouldn't be without it— Rexburg, Idaho. I feel I must express my appreciation to those of the General Board who have put so much time, work, and prayer into making the Magazine possible for the sisters of the Church. I say prayer, for I feel that the Magazine is inspired by our Father in Heaven and I thank him for the help and encouragement it brings into my home every month.—Mesa, Arizona.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
For a Christmas Present Upon request, an attractive gift card will be mailed notifying the recipient of the gift. JOSEPH SMITH Said— "9 there is anything calculated to interest the mind of the Saints, to awaken in them the finest sensibilities, and arouse them to enterprise and exertion, surely it is the great and precious promises made by our Heavenly Father to the children of Abraham."— "Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,"' page 163. Between the covers of this book is the story of our Father Abraham's Children—and of God's "precious promises" to us. Have you read it? Here is a chart of the beginning of your pedigree—24 generations from Adam to Ephraim. It is complete with dates and references. THE AUTHOR, James H. Anderson, was an outstanding student of scripture and history. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. This beautifully bound book and chart will pleasantly surprise you. For your own library—or for a friend you want to please at Christmas time—send in your order now. (CUT HERE AND MAIL TODAY) EARL W. HARMER, Publisher 945 So. 7th East, Salt Lake City 4, Utah Please send postpaid the book GOD'S COVENANT RACE... Ee et PI By James H. Anderson 0
