[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Dorothy J. Roberts]
"Now  let's  eat!" 
THANKSGIVING  GRACE 
Dorothy  J.  Roberts 
Place  the  bird  breast  upward  on  the  platter, 
Ringed  with  ears  of  tapered,  golden  maize. 
The  Pilgrim's  sleek  head — by  the  chieftain's  feather- 
Was  first  to  bow  above  this  fare  in  praise. 
He  left  the  masonry,  the  yielding  garden, 
The  ballast  and  the  comfort  of  the  known 
To  fill  his  sails  with  stranger-winds,  to  harden 
His  palm  upon  a  distant,  unhewn  stone. 
In  his  somber  costume  towered  spirit 
Helmeted  with  a  warrior's  classic  plume; 
The  oppressed  one,  always  taller  than  his  tyrant, 
Had  bent  the  unseen  bars  about  his  room. 
Snare  the  tender,  choice  white  meat  of  plenty 
They  captured  from  the  wilds,  alert  and  dim, 
But  fold  the  hands  in  grace  for  the  spirit's  bounty 
Which  shall  dare  reaches  unsubdued  by  him.

Sewing  in  Pioneer  Days 
Leda  Thompson  Jensen 
Former  Member,  Relief  Society  General  Board 
TO  
the    increasing   number    of  men's  pants  and    women's    waists, 
households    in   which   sewing  These,  also,  at  last  wore  out. 
and  needlework  are  almost  a  Many  had  not  sufficient  clothes 
lost  art,  a  recital  of  these  activities  to  last  the  first  year,  but  no  fabrics 
in  the  homes  of  the  pioneers  reads  were  available,  so  they  set  about  to 
like  a  page  from  a  dusty  old  book  of  produce  their  own.     Nearly   every 
adventure.    Great   industrial   plants  family  acquired  a  few  sheep    from 
and  mass  production  have  released  which  the  wool  was  sheared,  washed, 
the  descendants  of  the  early  pioneers  carded,  spun,  and  woven  into  cloth, 
from  what  to  many  would  seem  real  Handmade  cards,  spinning  wheels, 
toil  and  drudgery,  but  to  those  who  reels,  and  looms  were  used  until  it 
still  find  joy  in  the  making  of  cloth-  was  possible  to  import  the  necessary 
ing  in  the  home  and  take  pride  in  machinery. 
the  creation  of  lovely  home  decora-  Black  and  white  cloth  came  from 
tions,  the  sewing  activities  of  the  the  natural  wool  of  black  and  white 
pioneers  strike  a  responsive  chord  sheep.  If  black  and  white  wool 
and  call  forth  deep  appreciation  and  were  mixed  before  carding,  gray 
admiration  for  their  resourcefulness  yarn  was  the  result.  If  other  colors 
and  ingenuity.  were  desired,  the  pioneer  women 
Being  isolated  and  poor,  having  used  rabbit  brush  for  yellow  dye, 
brought  little  or  nothing  with  them,  the  root  of  the  madder  plant  for  red, 
the  pioneers  were  dependent  upon  and  imported  indigo  for  blue.  This 
themselves  for  necessities  and  com-  indigo  was  almost  worth  its  weight 
forts.  They  had  to  use  their  own  in  gold.  With  the  three  primary 
hands.  Many  of  those  early  settlers  colors,  it  was  possible  to  make  corn- 
were  of  the  best  of  European  artis-  binations  which  produced  many  dif- 
ans,  workers  in  wood,  iron,  wool,  and  ferent  colors. 
cotton.    They  set  about  to  remedy  Wool  was  the  first  available  fiber, 
the  situation  in  which  they  found  but  Brigham  Young  and  his  people 
themselves  and  they  taught  others  were  not  satisfied  with  woolen  ma- 
what  they  knew.  terial  alone.    It  is  doubtful  if  a  more 
Very    soon    after    the    pioneers  resourceful  people  ever  lived.     No 
reached  the  Valley,  new  clothes  were  venture  was  too  difficult  to  try,  if 
needed.    Even  with  good  care,  with  effort  and  hard  work  could  bring  its 
patching  and  mending,  clothing  was  fruition.     Cotton,   linen,    and   silk 
bound  to  wear    out.     In    some  in-  were  all  successfully  produced   and 
stances,  until  better  materials  were  used  for  fabrics, 
acquired,  old  wagon  covers  and  bed-  The  very  first  goods  brought  into 
ticks  which  had  served  their  original  Utah  for  sale    were    brought   from 
purpose  were  made  into   some  ar-  Fort  Hall  in  Idaho.    Among  other 
tides   of  wearing  apparel  such    as  things,  calico  was  sold  at  fifty  cents 
Page  744

WOMEN'S  FASHIONS  1850-1880

746 
RELIER  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
Courtesy,  Violet  D.  Pierce 
"EMBROIDERY  AND  TUCKS" 
to  seventy-five  cents  a  yard.  In  1849, 
the  first  regular  stock  of  goods  for 
the  Utah  market  was  brought  in  by 
Utah's  first  commercial  merchants, 
Livingston  and  Kinkead.  Goods  sold 
by  these  first  merchants,  and  others 
who  followed  them,  were  freighted 
across  the  prairies  in  wagon  trains 
until  the  advent  of  the  railroad  in 
1869. 
W1 
ITH  fabrics  made  available  eith- 
er from  home  factories  or  from 
goods  shipped  into  the  Territory, 
home  manufacturing  ceased,  but  the 
sewing  of  the  clothing  was  a  problem 
for  every  home. 
A  girl's  life  was  one  continual 
round  of  sewing,  from  the  cradle  to 
the  grave.  Even  before  she  was 
born  her  layette  must  be  prepared 
and  the  task  was  a  much  greater  one 
then  than  it  is  now.  Fashion  and 
customs,  as  well  as  the  uneven  tem- 
perature of  fireplace  and  stove-heat- 
ed homes,  called  for  more  and  dif- 
ferent clothes  than  the  baby  wears 
today.  Shirts,  bands,  pinners,  a 
woolen  flannel  petticoat,  a  muslin 
petticoat,  dresses,  blankets,  and 
shawls  were  all  made  by  hand.  All 
the  little  petticoats  and  dresses  had 
to  be  trimmed  with  hand-crocheted 
lace  and  insertion  and  tucks,  or  dec- 
orated with  hemstitching  and  drawn 
work.  Sometimes  eyelet  embroidery 
extended  from  the  bottom  of  the 
dress  upward  on  the  skirt  for  twelve 
or  fifteen  inches.  Dresses  for  babies 
of  both  sexes  were  long.  To  be  really 
fashionable,  they  had  to  touch  the 
floor  when  the  baby  was  lying  on 
his  mother's  lap. 
When  baby  began  to  sit  alone  and 
his  feet  were  freed  from  the  pinners, 
then  the  shortening  process  took 
place.  Usually,  the  first  long  dresses 
were  laid  aside  for  future  use,  while 
new  dresses  and  petticoats  of  a  short- 
er length  were  substituted  and 
home-knit  stockings  were  added  to 
the  wardrobe.  If  the  long  dresses 
were  not  saved  for  other  babies,  then 
they  were  shortened  by  cutting  off 
the  bottom.  Lace  and  insertion  had 
to  be  taken  off  and  sewed  on  again. 
When  the  baby  reached  the  walking 
stage,  in  many  cases,  a  second  short- 
ening of  the  baby  clothes  took  place. 
Nearly  all  the  stockings  were  long,
