			AND HEARD.

	I had heard of Poli Tics, but had never
seen her. I believed her to be a wonderful
woman, but had little idea what she was really
like.
	When the information was given me (very
privately) that she would be at the meeting, I
determined, though it was at the last moment,
that I would go. It did not take me long to
get ready,and I rushed hurriedly along until I
reached the door—there I paused! The
thought that women only would compose the
meeting had made me feel quite fearless. Now
what was my astonishment to hear the strong,
masculine voice of Jo Cose laughing heartily
at an expression made by his little sweetheart,
Merri ment. I was, however, too much in
earnest to be frightened away at the sound of a
man's voice; especially as I knew now that
meeting was not yet commenced, and I had
the advantage of being early; so after a
moment's hesitation, I walked in. Of course
my eyes would turn towards that portion of the
congregation from whence had proceeded the
pleasant sound of Jo's voice. There he sat,
surrounded by ever so many of his classmates,
among whom I recognized Ed Ucation, Dic
Tator, Nat Ural, Hu Mility and Gym Nastics.
	Dear old Ante Diluvian sat in the big 
chair, and with her neat old fashioned cap,
her plain, comfortable dress and easy graceful
manners, she seemed to be the moving and
ruling spirit in the meeting. With that
deference which we usually show to those who
consider themselves our superiors, Ante asked
Dic Tator to call the meeting to order, and
"preside." Dic took the chair with his char-
acteristic unconcern and self-reliance. And
after the opening exercises, he showed himself
the real gentleman by asking Ante to make
the first speech. She arose in her quiet, digni-
fied way, and said the object of the meeting
was to bring together a great many influences
that were operating, in these days, in rather a
desultory manner, and by seeking to unite
them, it was hoped that they might be utilized
to far greater advantage than they could be in
their disconnected state. She alluded to the
vast difference between the ways of living in
these times and in her early days. But in re-
gard to religion, she thought the world was in
much the same condition now as when she
was young. Then Noah preached to the
people and endeavored to arouse them to a
sense of their wickdness and the dangers
awaiting them if they would not repent. But
they refused to listen to him, and the con-
sequence was their great destruction by the
flood. In these days the world refuses to accept
the light of truth which has come into it, and
will not heed the warning sent; therefore the
destruction of the wicked, the end of the world
is fast approaching.
	While Ante was talking, I was thinking,
what a good meeting we were having and how
all present were enjoying it, when I happened
to see Mis Chief at one end of the room,
blinking her eyes viciously, and poking up her
nose in a sneering manner, to attract the atten-
tion of Bell Igerent and Ani Mosity who sat
quite a distance from her. When the speech
was ended, she beckoned them to go and sit
by her, and they went. Alas! I thought, Eden
was not without an evil serpent, nor are we
free from the effects of its operations to-day.
	I was glad that neither of the three last
named persons found an opportunity of ad-
dressing the meeting; though they whispered
almost incessantly, and at the close of the
meeting elbowed through the crowd in a most
disgusting manner, and talked loudly of the
inconsistency of "Poli Tics and Poly Gamy

[Column 2]
pretending to be such great freinds, when
everybody knew that their pursuits were as
unalike as were those of the Duke of
Wellington and Mr. Bob Ingersol, or
Susan B. Anthony and Kate Field."
	The next speaker was Ele Gance. She was
attired with the most exquisite taste, and
looked charming indeed. She believed the
cause for which the meeting was called to be a
good one,and was willing to work for it. The
refinement and elevation of taste, manners and
sentiments, especially among the young, was a
very desirable object, and one in which she
felt deep interest. True refinement belonged
to every truly noble character, and should be
carefully cultivated by all.
	Ed Ucation was next called to the stand.
He said the real intent of this meeting was
scarcely yet made clear to his mind. He was
not so quick of comprehension as were some,
but felt that he would be the better for attend-
ing the meeting, as he believed, as far as he
understood it, it was for mutual benefit. To
gain intelligence, and to use that intelligence
in doing good should be the leading pursuit
of every man and every woman. If an
organization for such purposes was in contem-
plation by those who had called the meeting,
the movement would have his hearty support.
He believed that organizations for the bringing
together of different minds, different grades of 
intellect, different degrees of intelligence, were
a grand source of development to all interested. 
	Nat Ural being asked to address the meet-
ing, said he was an advocate for all sensible
reforms. He believed in everything that
tended to enlighten the understanding and
enlarge the capacities of men and women and
boys and girls. But he liked short exercises
of some kind, in which all should take some
part, rather than to have all the time occupied
by a few. We all have brains, we all have
tongues, and we should learn to use them,
that we may preserve our identity; be "our-
selves" instead of trying to imitate others whom
we admire. He liked originality.
	Gene Rosity was called upon for a speech,
and cheerfully responded. To follow the
suggestion of the last speaker, she should have
to sav something more than to endorse what
had already been said. She did not propose
to criticise Nat's speech, but would add a little
to it. In her opinion, it was better for
young people to copy the good in others than
to think so much of originality as to carry out
less worthy designs and ideas of their own.
"There is nothing new under the sun" anyhow,
and whether our talents are great or small, the
best and wisest course for us all to pursue is
to cultivate a disposition to do good wherever
and in whatever way we can. It is by no
means the ones who possess the brightest
intellects or the finest accomplishments, who
always manifest the kindest spirit, the most
goodness of heart,and the least selfishness. Yet
these fundamental principles are the most
productive of happiness, both to ourselves and
others. Gene then begged leave to introduce
to the audience her brave and much abused
sister, Poly Gamy, whom, she was sure, they
would all like to hear.
	Dic said "yes," with all his heart; and
Poly received the cheers of the audience with
a bow and a smile, and followed with her ad-
dress.
	"My sister speaks truly," she said, "I have
been abused! I have been slandered, misjudged
and misused generally, ever since my earliest
recollections. I have sometimes felt almost
friendless and alone; and but for the gentle
fidelity, the comfort and consolation I have
always found in Gene, I must have died years
and years ago. When I have been imprisoned,
or compelled to leave my home and seek refuge
from my enemies wherever I could, she has
borne her part of the burden with the meek-


ness of a lamb, and with the fortitude and
resolution of an ancient Greek. When I have
seemed to be deserted by all others, Gene has
still stood by me like a—I was going to say
like a “brick,” but as that might be considered
slang, I will say like the true heroine she
is. But you all know Gene, and I have no
need to expatiate farther upon her estimable
qualities. I would here make honorable men-
tion of my faithful and valued relative, Hu
Mility. He has,indeed, been a true friend and
wise counselor in all my wanderings, my sor-
rows and distress. But for the peace of mind
which always comes to me under the influence
of his benign presence, the encouragement and
support which he has given, I think I must
have gone mad many a time. And now I
wish to thank you all, at least each one of you
who has ever spoken a word in my favor, or
assisted in any way to shield me from the
violence of my persecutors. I will also make
a request, that none of you will ever think of
inviting me to partake of your hospitality un-
accompanied by my sister Gene and our friend
Hu. For without them I am the worst creature
alive; it is really quite impossible for me to
make myself the least agreeable unassisted by
the sunshine of their smiles, their tender
thoughtfulness and love.”
	Hu Mility was called for, but declined the
honor of making an address. Dic insisted,
however, and Hu arose, blushing like a school
girl in her first attempt to sing in company.
He said he was not aware of having done so
much good as his friend Poly gave him credit
for. In matters of moment he always sided
with those whom he thought to be in the
right, regardless of the opinion of the world
or the operations of evil doers. He had al-
ways befriended Poly because she had been
unrighteously aggrieved and condemned with-
out fault. He could sympathize with her, for
he was often slighted and treated with injustice
himself; and somehow, she had always clung
to him as though he were one of her main
stays.
	A speech from Gym Nastics was called for,
and that gentleman dilated somewhat upon
the benefits of physical cultivation and de-
velopment. He said if ladies knew how much
their health and strength and consequent en-
joyment of life would be improved by regular
physical exercises, performed in a systematic
way, they would give more attention to such
matters than they now do.
	After Gym sat down, there was a little
rustling and whispering about the stand, and
I began to think that, after all, meeting would
close without my seeing or hearing anything of
the one I came on purpose to see and hear.
	Then Dic arose and begged the indulgence
and attention of the audience for a very few
moments longer, while we should listen to the
able, learned and eminently gifted Poli Tics.
	She stood up, apparently unmoved, amid a
storm of applause, and holding up one hand
to silence the clapping and cheers, began to
speak.
	“I am no longer young,” she remarked, “and
my voice is not as firm and steady as it has
been at other times, in the halcyon days of my
youth and beauty, or in the strength and glory
of middle age. And if you would hear me
speak, you must be quiet and attentive.
(Dead silence). I presume you have all
heard of me, and have learned some little con-
cerning my character and my views. But I
am so little understood, even by those who
claim great familiarity with me, that I am
quite sure none of you (who make no such
pretentions) have ever heard much truth about
me. Like my young friend, associate and
namesake, Poly Gamy, I am regarded by
many in a false light; I am evil spoken of be-
cause of the misdeeds of those who profess to
be my best friends and ablest advocates, who

[Column 2]
all the while ignore the true principles which I
would have considered and respected. I am,
probably, the oldest one in this room. At all
events, I have lived long and learned much.
It pleases me to be introduced to such an
audience as the one before me. It is my de-
light to associate with those who seek to ad-
vance in the scale of real greatness. The
sole aim and object of all my efforts is to
promote the public welfare, to maintain the
public peace. Those who would work with
me and for me should learn who I am and of
what my principles consist. But I am grieved
to have to say that many who profess to be my
faithful adherents know little and care less
about me. By such, my name is continuously
made use of in a fraudulent manner, to serve
their own selfish purposes. I can tell you
that the Decalogue of olden times, contains the
fundamental principles of the system by which
I would have people governed. How many
of the would-be lawmakers and lawmain-
tainers of these days know anything of this?
The grand and superb structures of different
classes, which exist and have existed in
different nations, since the foundation of the
earth was laid, are all the results of strict
obedience to the system by which I would
have men and women work. Because of the
wealth and popularity which have been be-
stowed upon me, through wise and economical
management of our energetic and unselfish
workers, because of my own intrinsic value—
I say it with feelings of reverence for the cause
I represent, and without thought of boasting—
the ignoble and dishonest hang on to my skirts
and clutch at my apron strings to make it
appear that they are lawful attendants upon
me. They care nothing for me or my true
and loyal followers. It is our wealth they are
after. But once in a while I shake myself,
and away they go, sprawling about under my
feet, where, only for mercy’s sake, they would
all be soon trampled to death or tossed into
the pen. Mercy will, by-and-bye make room
for justice, however, and then will occur worse
shakings than we have yet known. But I have
trespassed upon your time too long already,
and must leave future developments for future
times.”
	Thus ended the speech of the venerable and
dignified Poli Tics, and the meeting adjourned
sine die.
			Yours sincerely,
							MYS TERIOUS.
	S. L. City, Dec. 1887.


