CAN I ENTERTAIN?

	As far back as history takes us we find men
breaking bread together. We find, too, that
those who eat the bread feel themselves under
obligation to those who furnish it, and that
they are quick to improve an opportunity to
return the favor. From some such rude be-
ginning came the laws which govern social
courtesies to-day. It is sometimes complained
that these laws are artificial and false. Give
us spontaneous social life, the disgruntled cry.
If the mooted regulations are analyzed we find
that they are controlled by two principles:
hospitality, which uses each opportunity to
show courtesy, and gratitude, which never fails
to return a favor received. Modern social
etiquette is often abused, no doubt, but a little
reflection will convince anybody that its prin-
ciples are sound, and that its growth has been
natural.
	Society is a union of congenial people for 
the sake of enjoying one another's companion-
ship, stimulating one another's ambitions,
sharing one another's ideas. It is feasible
only when everybody interested does his share
of entertaining. Society says this share shall
be in proportion to what one gets. She says
that he who would give, must receive; that no
person, no family, is excused from this law.
Now if this is not spontaneous sociability, it
is good sense. It may not be a sentimental
plan, but it is a practical one, which is much
more to the purpose.
	There are many persons who complain that
they cannot meet this rule. They want to go
but they claim they cannot return favors.
The usual excuses are that they have no
homes, that they never have entertained and
that they fear to begin, or that they cannot
afford the expense. "I am a homeless, self
supporting woman. What can I do?" "I 
am a bachelor. What can I do?" pleads one
class. Some of the most charming social 
centres we ever have seen were the simple
parlors of self-supporting women. They
were scrupulously honest in returning every
social courtesy extended, and because they
 were so careful they were invited frequently.
By their cordiality, their bright ways, their
intelligence, they gave a charm to their poor
quarters which no amount of money could
have provided. They paid their way in so-
cial life and held a recognized place. There
are old bachelors to whom the circles in which
they move owe much of their brightness and
interest. They are the counsel of the elders
in social questions, the guardian of the young
girls, the delight of the children, the refuge
of the wall flowers. They know that a con-
cert or lecture party is a fair exchange for a
dinner party. They know that a half-
Bohemian little supper in the private parlor
of a hotel, presided over by a married lady
friend, will compensate their circle of young
lady friends for their invitations to call and
to parties. They know that a bachelor's pic-
nic is the most charming of all picnics. And 
so they hold their position in society, without
imposing on the good-nature of their friends
or compromising their own self-respect. "No
home" is not a sufficient excuse to release
the person who wishes to go in society from
paying his society debts.
	Persons who would willingly entertain

[column 2]
generously but who never have done so,
dread to begin. They fear they will blunder.
They feel awkward. They are unwilling to
show themselves less familiar with social
practices than their neighbors. This is sup-
posing that the vital point in entertaining is
the appearance or style—a shoddy idea. A 
spirit of genuine hospitality, a desire to 
gather one's friends about, and to give them as
pleasant a time as possible, is the essential
point. It will be an unworthy guest who will
go away from the gathering where such a 
spirit prevails and criticise the style. Nor does
the house and its arrangements have nearly
the weight that many think. You must re-
turn what you receive, but return only in
good-will, in effort to make others happy. It
is not asked that in exchange for a glimpse of
somebody's family silver, you display Sevres
china, or that you receive in a satin-hung
room because you have been received in one
paneled in rosewood. Again, if the house is
too small to accommodate forty guests, it
may hold twenty, and twice twenty are forty.
The variety of social entertainment is great, 
and a house which will not allow a dinner
party may permit something less ambitious.
	The supposed cost of entertaining hinders
many persons. The money cost lies in the
refreshments, the decorations, the favors, the
hired entertainment, which are offered the
guest. Now, “decorations, favors, and hired
entertainment” are none of them necessary
to a successful dinner, lunch, or evening party,
and the refreshments may be as simple as
the hostess has courage to serve. People of
sense and taste go into society for other rea-
sons than to feast, to look at beautiful flowers,
to carry home dainty souvenirs, or to listen
to paid musicians or elocutionists. They  go
for the sake of the good-fellowship to be found.
If a hostess will see that her friends enjoy
themselves, her dinner may be as simple as
Madame Roland's to the ministers of the
French Cabinet, one of which when three
members of the cabinet were present is said
to have cost fifteen francs. She may give a 
party and furnish nothing but bouillon and
wafers; or coffee and sandwiches. She may
tender a reception and as the late Emperor
Frederick of Germany did when a young man
of limited income, serve nothing but a cup of
tea and a thin slice of bread with marmalade.
It is the spirit not the style or display which
is the real essence of entertaining. If the 
spirit of hospitality exists, there is nobody
who cannot entertain acceptably, even royally,
however humble his home and narrow his 
purse.—The Chautauquan.


