GOOD COMPANY.

	A good character is something to be prized
more than riches. It is not sufficient that we
have a good reputation, a good character is
what we should all strive our utmost to pos-
sess. There is a vast difference in the meaning
of the words, character and reputation; char-
acter is what (in our very heart and soul, and
in our daily walk and conversation) we really
are; while reputation is merely what from
all outward appearance we are supposed to be.
There are those who-while in company and
society-seem to be kind and agreeable, and
very entertaining, but who when at home, and
among their own, are cross and surly, with
never a smile or a pleasant word, such a per-
son has a reputation from which his character
differs very, very much.
	Among other things, it is necessary, in order 
to possess a good character, to keep good com-
pany. We can be kind to those who are
worthy of our kindness, but let us be intimate
with few, and be sure that the few are well
chosen.
	We generally judge persons from the com-
pany they keep, and we had better be alone
than in bad company, for "evil communications
corrupt good morals." Habits are catching as
well as diseases; and I believe that the mind
is as liable to infections as the body.
	Do wrong, and we feel that almost every-
thing is wrong; but do right, and we sense the
pleasure of having done so. Just so with the
company we keep; if we mingle with low and
degraded people, we think life is mean and
hardly worth living, but on the other hand, if
we associate with the pure in heart,the virtuous,
and those who let virtue garnish their thoughts
unceasingly, who in fact, have virtue; truth,
and righteousness for their motto, will feel that
life is sweet, and that we have in very deed
something worth living for, we will realize 
that we are not placed upon this earth merely
for the pleasure this life affords, but that we
are placed here to prepare ourselves for a 
grander and nobler life, a higher and more
exalted home. 
	We cannot allow ourselves to associate with 
those who do not consider it necessary to re-
member the Sabbath day and keep it holy.
It is a commandment to us from our Father
in heaven, and we should honor and hold it
sacred as such.
	Let us seek the society of those who fear 
God, of those who are so humble as to ask
God for blessings, and so grateful as to thank
Him for blessings received, never forgetting to
do our part, and to be as humble and grateful
as those with whom we associate. And by so
doing we will be wise for ourselves here, and
wise for eternity hereafter.
							S. M. H.


