DEAR EDITOR:
	It has been a long time since I promised you I would
write the obituary of my dear friend, Sister Annie Becker,
who departed this life Oct. 14th, 1890, aged 60 years, 4
months and 23 days. Sister Becker's maiden name was
Annie Ashbrook, she was born, May 1830, in Manchester,
England. Her parents were George and Kate Ashbrook.
	Her health had been failing for some time and when she
was called hence, to meet her Father in heaven, she was
satisfied to go, for she had verily come home to live and
die with the Saints of God in the valleys of the mountains—
the Zion of our God. When she knew she was going, as
we stood by her bedside she said these words, "I shall
soon pass through the valley of the shadow of death, but I
am not afraid." May we all have the same assurance
when we lay on our death bed: and after that she lay
peacefully waiting for the message of death, that comes to
all in time.
	I first became acquainted with her in Liverpool in 1852
or 1853. I had the pleasure of telling her first of the Gospel
and introduced her to the brethren in the office there. I
could stay but a days as I had to return home to Birming-
ham, but in a few weeks afterwards I had the news of her
conversion to the truih; she came to Utah with one of the
hand-cart companies in 1856. Brother F. D. Richard's wagon
came along in which she rode, she married a few months
afterwards Brother E. Cast, cabinet maker of the 13th
Ward, where I believe you became acquainted with her;
she left him through force of circumstances and lived for
some time in the 8th Ward; and was there married to her
lately bereaved husband, by whom she had two children,
a boy and a girl; the boy died when a few days old; the
girl still lives to mourn the death of a fond, affectionate
mother: and may she emulate her virtues, and be deter-
mined as she was to uphold the principles of truth.
	In 1863, like many others, Mr. and Mrs
Becker went to Virginia, Montana, thinking to stay a
few months and then return home. Times were hard and
they took a trip to England instead of returning here, but
not being satisfied, she (Mrs. Becker) soon sought the
Latter-day Saints and identified herself with them again;
they were living then in Brighton; our faithful Elders who
were traveling withont purse or scrip were ever welcome
guests at her home, I have no doubt many remember her
hospitalities with pleasure.
	Again she left her home in England for her home in "the
mountains of Ephraim," and arrived here, thankful to God
that He had permitted her to return safely.
	She was a faithful, kind friend, a warm defender of the
principles of life and salvation, and though through her
failing health she seldom could attend meetings she was
ever ready to do what was required of her through the
Relief Society in helping the poor and needy, and often
called around her as best she could, her faithful sisters, that
she could bless them and be blessed thereby.
	Peace to her ashes, may we be permitted to meet in the
morning of the first resurrection to rejoice together is my
prayer, trusting all is well. Accept my kind regards.
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
							BETSY M. BROWER.
	Richmond, 1891.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Nalsbitt-Thomas,Sup

