IN MEMORIAM.

	With much sadness we announce the death of our dear
sister, Lucy Lodica, beloved wife of John Spencer,
daughter of Hyrum and Lucina Elmer,who died of dropsy,
after a long and painful illness, at Lake Shore, Utah Co.,
Dec. 14th, 1890. She was born in Lee Co., Iowa July 3rd,
1843. Came with her parents to Utah, Salt Lake Co., in
the year 1852, moved to Payson, 1857. She was married
at the early age of fifteen to Richard Spencer, who died
within four weeks after their wedding day. Two years after
her young husband's death, she was married to John
Spencer, Oct. 7th, 1860, by Pres. Brigham Young.
	In 1877 her husband was called on a mission to preside
over the Thistle Valley Indians; although it was a great
trial to leave her home, friends and relatives, she went with
him, and there performed a great and noble work.
	The life of Sister Spencer in connection with her husband
has been closely connected with the Indians since her
marriage	She has been mother, sister, friend and teacher
to them. Teaching them household duties and all kinds
of industries, giving them food, clothing and shelter, many


times depriving herself of necessaries to promote their wel-
	In 1882 she was appointed President of the Relief Soc ety
of the Lamanites, by Sister Eliza R. Snow, and ordained
by Pres. Peterson, of San Pete Co., Sister Spencer being
the first president placed over the Lamanite Society, did
more for their promotion and advancement, than any other
sister in the Church. She was a much beloved and ex-
emplary wife, a kind and affectionate mother, dearly loved
by parents, brothers, and sisters, and all who knew her.
Through the Edmunds law she is one of our sister martyrs.
At the age of 45 her youngest child was born and her
husband sent to prison. After having lived with him 28 years,
she was compelled to leave her family and home to go into
exile among strangers, suffering much and passing through
many severe trials. During the past six years she has
suffered terribly with two cancers,      *   *	which
were taken away by Dr Riggs, of Provo. The last one
was treated a little more than a year before her death.
	Sister Spencer and family removed to Lake Shore in
Aug. 1890, where she died, as she had lived, a true and
faithful Latter-day Saint. Leaving a husband, eight child-
ren, seven grand children, and a host of friends and
relatives who deeply mourn their loss.
