LUCY DECKER YOUNG.

	Sister Lucy Decker Young, wife of the late
President Brigham Young, passed quietly away
at 6 o'clock, Saturday morning, Jan. 24th, 1891.


She was born at Phelps, Ontario County, New
York,  May 17th, 1822.  Her death occured at
the residence of her daughter,  Mrs.  Mira  Y.
Rossiter.
	Her illness extended nearly three months, and
during that time she suffered intensely, but un-
complainingly, enduring her sickness with the
same patience and fortitude that ever char-
acterized her every action in life.  She embraced
the Gospel at an early age, and came to Salt Lake
City in the year 1848.  She endured the priva-
tions and persecutions that the Saints had to
undergo, bearing up bravely under all circum-
stances; cheering and comforting those around
her, extending charity to the needy, and ever
ready to lend a helping hand to those in distress.
She bore poverty and trouble without a murmur,
and in the home circle shone with undimmed
lustre.  Her counsel was ever instructive and
veneficial. One of her greatest characteristics
was her keen perception and prompt answers to 
questions of importance.  She was the mother of
ten children, seven of whom, with one sister and
two brothers, remain to mourn her loss.  She was
singularly  reticent and unobtrusive,  scarcely 
leaving her own fireside, but withal never ceas-
ing to do good whenever she had the opportunity.
No call upon her was made in vain, and her
sympathy was ever great to those in need. Her
determination to do right was ever uppermost in
all things. She was humble, and a devoted
servant to her. Master, and when He saw fit to 
call her home, she was ready to go. Her work
was done.  Throughout her whole life she was
pure and unaffected, being solicitous for the com-
fort and happiness of those around her, she was
a devoted mother, a loving wife, and won the
friendship of all who knew her.
	This was proven during her sickness by the
many inquiries made by relatives and friends,
proffering a helping hand to alleviate her suffer-
ings.  These attentions were gratefully appre-
ciated by the members of her family, as was also
the sympathy extended in her approaching death
	The services were conducted at the residence of 
her daugther and were both impressive and com-
forting.  She was noble looking in life, and most
beautiful in death.  Her work was finished, her life
ended.  Her crown is priceless, her reward sure.
May her children emulate her many virtues and
live so as to meet her who has "gone before."
								M. Y. R.


