		THE WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	We had a pleasant journey to this city. Leaving
Salt Lake City, Monday, 7 a. m, Feb. 16, and
arriving in Washington, Thursday, Feb. 19, at
10 p. m., our train was delayed a short time at
Baltimore, or we would have reached here at 8:15
p. m. Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Richards met us at the
depot and accompanied our party to the Riggs
House, where we registered and obtained such
rooms as we could get, the house being already
pretty well filled.  Before we had been in the
house an hour we were delighted to meet in the
hallway, just for a moment, the dear friend of
woman, Susan B. Anthony, and she expressed
her pleasure at our coming, and gave us two or
three good words of welcome and of cheer that
we can never forget.
	It was arranged before separating for the night
that the following morning, Mr. and Mrs. Richards
would call (they are at the Randall) and take
those who wished to go to the White House and
the Capitol Buildings, etc.
	The next morning we went first to the White
House, then to the War, State and Navy Build-
ings, and in the afternoon to the Senate and
House of Representatives.  It is impossible to
tell you what we saw and heard, we would want
time and space for that, but Mr. Richards told us
all he could in the short space of time that we
were together, and it was all most interesting,
especially so to Mrs. Beattie, Mrs. Bullock and
Miss Katie Thomas who had never been in
Washington before.
	During the day Mrs. Richards and the writer,
also Mrs. Thomas, succeeded in obtaining an ap-
pointment for an interview the next morning at
nine a. m. with Mrs. Sewall, the Committee on
Credentials for the Council.  This was very
satisfactory to all concerned, though we were
somewhat in doubt as to how the general officers
might vote upon our admission to the Council,
and here let it be understood that there are cer-
tain articles in the Constitution that have to be
complied with, etc., and several organizations
who came expecting to join the Council are go-
ing back without doing so, because of this and
that.
	On Saturday morning the Utah Delegation pre-
sented their credentials, and had an interview
with Mrs. Sewall, the Cor. Sec'y. of the Woman's
National Council as well as Committee on Cre-
dentials.  Mrs. Kimball and Mrs. E. S. Richards,
of Salt Lake City, were also with us.  Our inter-
view was satisfacory, as we were then informed
exactly what was expected of us.
	The Executive Committee held a meeting in
the afternoon, and after its close we were notified
that the Relief Society and Young Ladies'

[column 2]
Mutual Improvement Associations were admitted
to the Woman's National Council and the dele-
gates entitled to representation.
	Saturday evening Mrs. Spofford, the hostess
here, and a most magnificent woman in heart as
well as in appearance, gave a reception to the
ladies of the Woman's Council and Convention.
Many celebrated ladies were present besides
those who live in the house.  The large dining
room was handsomely decorated with stars and
stripes; at one end there was an elevated plat-
form for the musicians, and in a conspicuous
place, at the end of the room, there was a large
flag hung with one lone star on it representing
Wyoming.  At the other end of the room stood
the ladies who were receiving with Mrs. Spofford;
Miss Frances E. Willard, President of the W.
N. C., and N. W. C. Y. U., she has a lovely face
and most genial expression, a smile and pleasant
word for everybody.  Miss Susan B. Anthony,
Vice-President at large, etc., etc., and large she
is in every way as well as liberal, she is certainly
one of the grandest women of her time, or any
other time; Mrs. May Wright Sewall, the Cor.
Sec'y. of the W. N. C., and one of the ablest and
brightest women of the day.  She has excellent
executive ability, and is exceedingly helpful with
suggestions and ideas in all the work of the two
great bodies of women, who are now holding
sessions in this city, the Woman's Council and
the Suffrage Convention.  Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer,
the President of Sorosis, of New York City, was
one of the most attractive women leaders; she is
very much complimented in the papers and by
the people, not only on account of her beauty,
but style and elegance in dress.  Mrs. Sara
Andrews Spencer was in line with those who
were receiving; and the heart of the writer gave
a great bound at sight of her intelligent and
smiling face, remembering all her help and kind-
ness on our first visit to this wonderful city, and
how she had aided us with advice, and who will
never be forgotten.
	The reception was a brilliant affair, not so much
in the way of dress as in the brilliant eyes and
faces of the beautiful and celebrated women as-
sembled to greet the hostess and her co-workers.
There were, however, some very elegant costumes,
some artistic and Parisian.  Mrs. Rachel Foster-
Avery, whom Miss Anthony declares to be the
best cor. sec'y. in the world, wore a very heavy
white brocaded silk with an immense train, and
she looked charming.  She has one of the sweetest
faces and most fascinating manners.  There are
many we would like to mention by name, but
cannot do the subject justice, and so will only say
there were women lawyers, doctors, ministers,
artists, editors, correspondents and reporters.
	The ladies (for there were very few gentlemen)
congregated in groups chatting for a few minutes
in a friendly way, and later on a part of the com-
pany (for many had already retired) went up to
Mrs. Spofford's apartments, and were ushered
into a room profusely decorated with flowers,
where lunch was served in the most delightful way.
Icecream, cakes, dainties and salads, and the
most delicious coffee; but the greatest attraction
there was the presence of such women as Susan
B. Anthony, Isabella Beecher Hooker, Clara
Barton and others known to fame, whose noble
works are of themselves a living and lasting
monument. But we must pass on, and only give
them brief recognition now.
	Sunday there were services in Albaugh's Opera
House, as had been previously announced, and in
the evening an entertainment was given to raise
funds for a Mary Washington monument, although
as Miss Anthony said throughout the whole
affair, "they never even mentioned that Washing-
ton had a mother."
	Monday morning the Woman's National Coun-
cil was formally opened.  Miss Willard in the
chair, and by her side then and throughout the

[column 3]
entire Council, Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs.
Sewall, the Cor. Sec'y., was the right hand
director and manager.  She seemed to be the
chief person on the staff to assist the President.
Rev. Anna Shaw was one of the most efficient
helps, and is a most eloquent speaker, as well as
being very executive in all her work.  She had
charge of the bell and was the time-keeper, so
much time being allotted to each speaker, and it
was her duty to give the signal, even if in the middle
of a sentence.
	Miss Anthony would almost invariably arise
and say in her conciliatory manner, it will all be
given in the official report of the Council.
	The President's address to the Council was
the leading feature of the opening and was im-
mediately printed in pamphlet form and circulated
free.  It opened with these significant words o
Elizabeth Cady Stanton's, "A difference of
opinion on one question must not prevent us from
working unitedly on those on which we can
agree."
	After Miss Willard's speech, which was a grand
one in every sense of the word, came Anna
Garlin Spencer, who spoke upon "State Control
and Social Care of Dependent Classes;" then
"The Care of Defective Children," Fanny B.
Ames; "The Need of Women in Public Institu-
tions," Dr. Rose Wright Bryan; "Our Duty to
Dependent Races," Alice C. Fletcher; "Women
as Police Matrons," Lillie Devereux Blake.
	It is not the intention to go into details in this
article, but give the opening of the great National
Council of Women, to which several great or-
ganizations of women have been admitted.  Per-
haps it will convey but little of the true idea
after all, but it shall be the pleasure of the writer
to explain and make clear, to as many as possible,
this federation of womens' organizations after her
return home.
	In regard to the Delegates from the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A., in which the members
of these organizations are more specially in-
terested, it will perhaps do as well to give you the
newspaper reports, until you get it officially from
the regular report of the Woman's National
Council which is to be published.  Here is the
statement of the Washington Post, the reporter
of that paper sitting in the Council during the
several sessions of that body:
	"Miss Willard then introduced Mrs. Caroline
St. Thomas, the delegate from the Young Ladies'
National Improvement Association, who read an
interesting paper descriptive of the work of the
young ladies' organization, which had done a
great deal for its members.
	"Mrs. Jane S. Richards, delegate from the
National Women's Relief Society, in a few words
expressed the pleasure she had experienced on
her attendance on the council. She gave way to
Mrs. Emily Wells, of Utah, who told something
of the Relief Society, which had its head-
quarters in New York, and had been in existence
over half a century.  There were branch societies
all over the country and in some foreign lands.
It had over 400 branches, 25,000 members, $100,-
000 worth of real estate, a hospital managed
solely by women, and published a paper, the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	"It was an uncompromising enemy of the dram
shop, and when women had the right of suffrage
in Utah, the society furnished a rallying point for
the women of the State.  The society had done a
world of good works of charity, and was one of
the most benevolent organizations of women ex-
tant."
	The Woman's Tribune of Feb. 28, gives, in the
report of the Council, the following concerning
our delegation:
	"Next on the list, The National Improvement
Society, was represented by Mrs.  Thomas, who
spoke briefly on and told in an interesting manner


of the benefit young ladies were deriving from
it.
	“The next speaker introduced to the audience
was Mrs. Richards, of the National Woman’s
Relief Society, who began her brief address by
saying:  'I have the honor to represent Utah.
The 25,000 women whom I represent are seeking
to have love and  peace and goodwill extended to
all. On account of the length of the programme
I will not speak longer, except to say that I am
stopping at the Riggs House, and will be pleased
to answer questions there. I will now give way
to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.’
	“Mrs. Wells is editor of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, of Salt Lake City, and one of the most
interesting women at the Council. She has been
chastened and spiritualized by suffering into a
sympathy with woman that truly represents the
spirit of Him whom those of her faith call Master,
as well as those of Christian denominations.
Mrs. Wells gave a short account of the Relief
Society. Its headquarters are in New York; but
it has branch societies all over the country, a hos-
pital managed entirely by women, and has its own
organ—The WOMAN'S EXPONENT." 
	The three days’ sessions of the Woman’s
National Council were of an exceedingly interest-
ing character. In fact so much has been crowded
into the minds and hearts of the people who have
been listening through these three days that it
will take weeks of thought to digest the whole
matter, and sufficient material has been furnished
to occupy the next four years in developing;
the seed which has been planted will surely
bring in a rich, a golden and abundant harvest
that will bless and comfort the world of humanity.
	Grand, noble, yea queenly,are the women who
are laboring to unite, in a great band of sister-
hood, the several great organizations and bring
them in loving unison and fellowship one with
another and blessed mutual helpfulness. That
the Lord is working through His Holy Spirit upon
the women of this nation, and other nations,
must be apparent to all who have eyes to see,
and ears to hear. That this is woman’s era who
can longer doubt? Among the foremost of the
women of the world, who are actively engaged in
the great questions that are being agitated for the
benefit of the women of our own and other
lands (and what uplifts women, elevates the
whole human family), are the very women who
have planned and carried into effect this union of
organizations, this great federation of associa-
tions. One very pleasing and promising feature
of the Council is the great number of bright, in-
telligent, attractive young women that have come
forward and taken an active part in the work-
This is specially gratifying, for it is and must
necessarily be the young women of the present
century upon whom the great burden of respon-
sibility will fall and who are to work out the lines
of progression that will ensure the victory desired
for those who have toiled, lo, these many years.


