		A REPRESENTATIVE GATHERING.

	At the Riggs House Feburary 21st, were
gathered together, in a social way, more repre-
sentative and progressive women than were
probably ever seen at one time in this country.
The event was a reception tendered by Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford to the officers of the Wo-
man's National Council, which begins its first
triennial session this afternoon.
	The reception was held in the large dining
room of the Riggs House, which had been
cleaned and decorated for the occasion.
Around the walls of this spacious room were
hung the national colors and evergreens, while
in the windows and ranged about the orchestra
were palms, flowers, and tropical plants in pro-
fusion.  On entering the room the first thing
to attract the eye was a large American flag
which, instead of the forty-four stars in the
Union Jack, had one large lone star with the
word "Wyoming" inscribed under it.  It is
safe to say that not a single one of the hun-
dreds of earnest women there but turned more
than once to this symbol of woman's emancipa-
tion.  Here was the first break in the chain of
forty-four States that had denied the right of
suffrage to women.  The star of progress,
according to the advanced ideas of women
suffragists, has risen in the West,and Wyoming
is honored by the enthusiasts as the first
State to accede to women citizens equal rights
with the men.  The Wyoming star was the
centre of attraction last evening.  At the
southern end of the dining-hall an orchestra
of string instruments discoursed sweet music
and kept up a pleasant accompaniment to the
hum of conversation and gentle laughter that
filled the room.
	Nearly everybody, that is nearly every lady,
was there.  At least 500 people greeted the
receiving party during the two hours of the 
reception which lasted from 9 to 11.  The
reception was informal and a lady in a street
dress, or a gentleman in a morning coat did
not feel out of place, as there was plenty of 
company. Ther sterner sex was wofully in the
minority, although a score or more of gentle-
men had the courage to breathe the same
atmosphere with this crowd of brainy, witty,
and pretty young, old, and middle-aged ladies.
Everybody was there, and everybody was
made welcome.  A more amiable and gentle
assemblage could not be imagined.  The pro-
verbal sewing-circle gossips and short haired
women's rights cranks, that have unfortunately
become associated in the public mind with
every woman's movement, were conspicuous
for their absence, and in their stead was a
company of stately, amiable ladies, whose quiet
earnestness and subdued enthusiasm testified
that refinement and public spirit are not in-
compatable.
	At the left of the entrance, and stretching
almost across the wide hall, were the receiving
ladies, separated from the immense throng by
a canvas covered rope.  On the extreme right,
heading the receiving line, was Mrs. Jane H.
Spofford, the hostess of the evening.  Mrs.
Spofford carried the honors of her position
extremely well, as she always does.  Next to
her was that quiet-looking little woman who
has stirred up the temperance element of
Washington during the last week—Miss
Frances E. Willard, president of the Woman's 
Council.  Next came the veteran in the cause
of woman suffrage—Miss Susan B. Anthony, a
grasp of whose hand was most eagerly sought
for by the guests.  Next to her was Mrs. M.
Louise Thomas, the treasurer of the council,
and a lady known from one end of the country
to the other for her grand work in the elevation
of women.  Miss Clara Barton came next, the
president of the Red Cross Society, a lady


whose work of humanity has enshrined her in
the hearts of thousands of sufferers in this
country. Alongside of Miss Barton was the
bright corresponding secretary of the council,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, of Indianapolis.
Next came Jennie C. Croly, whose writings
under the nom de plume of Jennie June are
known and loved from one end of the country
to the other. By her side was Mrs. Rachel
Foster-Avery, corresponding secretary of the
International Council of Women. Then came a
lady so well-known in this city, Rev. Anna
H. Shaw, president of the Wimodaughsis. By
her side was Mrs. Mary T. Lathrap, of Michi-
gan, who has been heard during the past week
on the platform of the White Ribboners.
Next to her stood one of New York's brightest
ladies—Ella Dietz Clymer, president of the
Sorosis Club. Then came Miss Mary S. Lock-
wood and Mrs. M. D. Lincoln, representatives
of the Woman’s National Press Association;
Mrs. Estelle M. H. Merill, of the New Eng-
land Women's Press Association. The last
lady in the line was Mrs. Florence Balgarnie,
a distinguished representative of woman's work
in London, where, in addition to many other
offices, she is president of the British Woman's
Temperance Association.
	These were women, nearly all of whom have
achieved a world-wide reputation in the various
lines of women's work and endeavor. Before
this distinguished party the common, every-
day individual felt disposed to stand in awe,
and still there was nothing awe-inspiring in
their appearance as they stood and chatted
with the guests as they were presented one
after another. They were clothed like other
women, except, perhaps, in better taste than
one-half the would-be society leaders; they
wore their hair, much of which showed the
whitening frost of public service, like other
women; they talked like other women, and
laughed like other women—in fact the only
thing that made them differ from the hun-
dreds of gaily-dressed sisters who came to meet
and gaze upon them,was a sort of halo that sur-
rounds those eminent in devotion to grand objects
distinguished in literature and other paths that
lead to fame.
	The following are a few of the many dis- 
tinguished people noticed at the reception:
	Mrs. William Todd Helmuth, of New York,
wife of the world-renowned surgeon, Dr.
Helmuth; Dr. Rachel Gleason, of Elmira,
N. Y.; Judge and Mrs. William Lawson, Mrs.
Isabella Beecher Hooker, of Brooklyn,sister of
the late Henry Ward Beecher; Dr. Caroline
B. Winslow, Dr. and Mrs. La Fetra, Mrs. J.
C. Wenham, of Grand Rapids, Mich.; Miss
Emily B. Ketcham, of Grand Rapids; Mrs. P.
Clarence Tabor, of Grand Rapids; Mr. and
Mrs. Scales, Miss Howe and Miss McDonald,
of Toronto, Canada; Mrs. Helen B. Jenkins,
of Detroit; Hon. Jerry Simpson, of Kansas;
Representative McComas, ex-Gov. Price, of
New Jersey, and many others,including promi-
nent ladies and gentlemen of Washington.
	The reception began promptly at 9 o'clock,
and for two hours a constant stream of people
crowded past the receiving line until the
ladies were grateful for a rest. The unusual
character of the gathering made it one of the
most interesting events that has ever taken
place in the city.
	Genial-faced dominies, in black cashmere
and silk, will show the audience, at the first
public meeting of the triennial session of the
Woman's National Council, in Albaugh's
Opera House, Feb. 22nd, what eloquence in
female pulpit orators amounts to.


