LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	I shall never forget the brief space of time
between setting foot on the steamer and leav-
ing the harbor. The conflicting emotions of
joy and sadness which filled my heart, caused
a peculiar sensation not frequently experienced.
Here was I about to realize the dream of my
life, and my pleasure at the thought, can
better be imagined than described; yet at the
same time, I was separating myself by thou-
sands of miles of the mighty ocean, from the
land of my nativity and all the world held
near and dear. Of course I thoroughly ex-
pected and believed that I should return to
the loved ones—for had not I received a bless-
ing under the hands of the apostle of the Lord,
stating that such should be my pleasure? But
nevertheless these contradictory thoughts and
feelings seemed to have possession of me and I
could not decide which was uppermost, the

[column 2]
feeling of sorrow or that of gladness. How-
ever, I was resolved not to let my feelings be
guessed by those about me, as they had rather
joked me all the way, about not being home-
sick, and had said: "Just wait until we are
about to leave the land behind, and then we
will see if you are so strong minded." I was
congratulating myself on my power of keep-
ing my feelings hidden, when a crowd of people
who had gathered upon deck, and whom I
had supposed were passengers like ourselves,
started to sing a parting hymn, the title of
which I believe was, "Till we meet," and the
last line of the chorus was, "God be with you
till we meet again." The tune was admirably
adapted to the words, and the singers all had
good voices, supplying the four melodies which
form harmony. In fact the whole was so much
in harmony with my thoughts and feelings,
that I could not withstand its melting in-
fluence, but was forced to give way before this
flood of sweet, yet solemn sound, I wept—I
wept. There was however one source of con-
solation left me in my weak-mindedness—
there were many around me to whom the soft
and penetrating sounds of music had touched
in like manner, and many were seen with the
big tear-drops running down their cheeks,
while the smiles shone through like the sun
in the midst of an April shower. We
learned that this company of singers were
members of the Baptist church, who had come
on deck to sing their good-wishes and fare-
wells to one of their missionaries who was
bound for the "Dark Continent."
	When the singing was over, there was such
shaking of hands and such expressions of
"God bless you," "Do you love Him?" etc.,
kissing and weeping and smiling altogether,
irrespective of connection or creed, that it was
quite interesting and amusing to those who
(like some of us) stood on one side and watched
the procedure.
	But the time soon came for us to start. The
great gong sounded to warn all those who had
not engaged passage to depart. The company was
 soon thinned out and the gang-way drawn up,
giving us conclusive evidence that, "The
gallant ship was under weigh, to bear us out
to sea." We had really been let loose from
the land and could already feel the motion of
the ship as it conveyed us out on the bosom
of the deep dark ocean. We had purchased
deck chairs from the man on the wharf, who
sadly tormented us as we passed by him with our
luggage up the gang-way, and they had been
placed in a position where we might watch the
rapidly receding land.
	New York presents a grand and beautiful
appearance from the harbor; the high and
majestic buildings, the church spires and Gov-
ernmental pinnacle towering far up towards the
blue skies, and many were the reflections of
my mind regarding the past history and future
destiny of this great city.
	We were, however, soon disturbed in these
thoughts by the sound of the luncheon bell,
which called us to receive comfort from the
saloon below. We hurriedly ate what we re-
quired, which was not much, though there was
set before us a tempting repast, and hastened
to our place on deck, lest we might miss see-
ing the Statue of Liberty, but it was not yet
in sight, and not until the sun was sinking in
the western sky, did we pass by the great
goddess. This Statue of Liberty giving light to
the world, is a beautiful and wonderful con-


ception, occupying a commanding position in
the harbor; as all ships bound for New York
must necessarily pass by it before they come
into port, and the light shed forth from the
uplifted right hand of the goddess, is discern-
able by vessels miles out at sea. Yet it is 
saddening to be informed that this wonder of 
modern art and invention, is like unto the
house of a foolish man, which is built upon
the sand, and is destined, if not removed, to
be submerged by the the restless waves of the sea.
Strange, very strange,this monument has ever
been held as typical of the great nation to 
which it belongs. The question arises, will
its fate typify the fate of the Republic? Is
that, too, built upon quicksand? Time alone
will possess us of the sequel.
	The sun has set. The last mountain peak 
has faded from our sight. We have indeed 
bid adieu to terra firma, and said to our 
native land farewell. The shades of eve are
hovering o'er us, and we are far out on the
bosom of the deep. Shall I ever forget that
first afternoon and evening on the ocean? I
think not.
	Not wishing to give way to a feeling of
melancholy, as we had every reason for rejoic-
ing, our party joined in singing some of the old
familiar songs. Mr. H—and I enjoyed a 
waltz, newport, etc., to the sound of the har-
monica as played by Mr B—, who walked up 
and down the deck near us while we danced,
so that we might better hear the tune. The 
performance was really jolly, and I enjoyed it
immensely. We held meeting down in the
intermediate dining room, which we also en-
joyed, but hastened to get up on deck again
lest we should turn sick.
	During my voyage I found a perpetual
source of pleasure in watching the ever chang-
ing view of the sky and ocean. How beauti-
ful they looked in each and all of their varied
aspects. How inexpressibly grand and awe
inspiring were their tremendous propor-
tions.
	While being tossed on the broad, expansive
bosom of the deep, apparently hemmed in by
the arching depth of sky above, one is lost in
wonder and admiration at the grandeur and
immensity of even the small part of the uni-
verse which we are capable of comprehending,
and we feel ourselves dwindling into nothing-
ness, and are led to wonder at the infinite love
and mercy of the Great Creator, in deigning
to consider anything so insignificant and un-
worthy as we feel ourselves to be. An evening
spent on the deck of the vessel where may be
heard the constant lashing of the hungry
waves against its sides,and where one cannot 
fail to sense their utter helplessness in case 
of anything happening to the frail bark on 
which they stand. While the upper deep is
dotted with gems innumerable, declaring the 
glory of God, and the wonderfulness of His 
handiwork. I say such sights and sounds, to
our finite minds, almost incomprehensible,
produce the beneficial effect of making plain
to us our own incompetency—our entire de-
pendence on our Father and our God. Pride
hath not, for the time being, a place in our
natures—our spirits are softened—and we are
humbled to the dust. I spent two or three
evenigns on deck, and shall never forget them,
they are treasured up in my heart and mind
among my sublime experiences.
	Thus with singing, chatting, dancing, and 
feasting our senses on the sublimity of nature
surrounding us, the afternoon and evening
passed most pleasantly, and at ten o'clock we 
very reluctantly wended our way to our 
several state rooms and berths, ready for our
first night on the water; and inwardly con-
gratulating ourselves that we were going to be 
exceptions to most travelers on the ocean, and
not be sea sick. Though the dawn of the 
morrow proved the fallacy of our hopes, I

[column 2]
might say thus ended the first day of our 
voyage.
