[Vol14 | May 1927 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Glimpses of the Taj Mahal Dr. Franklin S. Harris]
glimpses of children at play.

Their shrill voices came from every direction, triumphant shouts of welcome to the Spring.

In the adjoining vacant lot a diminutive nine played the national game with noisy enthusiasm.

The littler boys 'whose tender years excluded them from the big game were quarreling noisily over a game of 'lag-outs'. Farther up the street three little girls played at dolls, while another wielded a skipping rope to the rhythm of a wonderful chant.

As these human signs of Spring caught her attention, a look of irritation crossed Martha's pleasant face.

Not that she disliked children.

Far from it.

Martha Harmon considered herself a real lover of little ones.

Her friends all agreed that she was the most devoted mother in the world, and her two children, clean, wholesome and well-behaved, proved that the statement was not exaggerated.

Since Billy came, nine years$ before, Martha had uever willingly missed a lecture or failed to read any new authority who might help'her attain more efficient motherhood.

Billy and Margaret bathed, exercised, ate, or napped with a fearful regularity.

Twice a year the dentist inspected their correctly brushed teeth, and when the proper time came for the ceremony, each child was relieved of tonsils and adenoids, in spite of Grandma Harmon's horrified protest that none of her ten were ever submitted to such barbarity.

Yes, indeed, Martha loved her little ones, and the children of her old school friends liked nothing better than a day at Auntie Harmon's, but loving dainty Margaret or fresh-cheeked Billy was one thing, while even jtolerating the McSwinney's numerous offspring was another matter entirely. 
 It was the sight of the McSwinney brood, one or two of whom were in every playing group, that brought the frown to Martha's face.

What was wrong with the McSwinneys, you ask?

In 'the first place Martha felt that eight children in these modern days of tiny yards and closely built houses, constitute a disturbance of the peace, or rather eight disturbances, to say the least.

Mrs. McSwinney herself was undisturbed.

Indeed, that worthy individual had passed through so many family upheavals, births, quarantines, broken limbs, and other excitement incident to the rearing of a large family, that she was not to be easily upset by such trifles as a bit of dirt, or a little noise.

There was so much to be done that she didn't know where to begin, so she seldom began at all.

Going up or down the street in a torn kimono, her hair uncombed, her shoes half laced, she was a-never ending eyesore to fastidious (Martha.

Only once had Martha been in the McSwinney home.

Larry had cut his hand and she went in to help dress it.
