Women in Modern Education By Alice Louise Reynolds U is common knowledge that the majority of teachers in the elementary and high schools of the United States are women. Important as this work is, often calling for training of a very high order, it is not the purpose of this article to deal with any phase of secondary education, but with women in higher education, chiefly as it affects the United States. In the first place, most colleges at the present time have one or more women on their faculties who have obtained the doctorate. Women with a doctorate were comparatively few or unknown only a short time ago; but now they form a rather large group, particularly in the United States. As examples of women having doctor's degrees on our college faculties, we cite: Myra Reynolds and M. Edith Rickert, both well known on the faculty of the University of Chicago. In our own State, we have Dr. Dorothy Nyswander Stewart of the faculty of the University of Utah; also, we recall that the University of Utah gave California Dr. Georgia Borg Johnson. Many, last winter, were interested in Dr. Lucy Lockwood Hazard, a member of the faculty of St. Mary-of-the-Wasatch, who gave a series of lectures on modern literature under the extension division of the University of Utah. Before the advent of these women, Dr. Philena Fletcher Homer served on the faculty of Brigham Young University. Our neighboring State, Idaho, lists Dr. Ella Wood on the faculty of the University of Idaho. There in her laboratory at Moscow she does research work relative to vitamin C, scurvy, and other matters of interest and importance. LL this, of course, indicates that women have been doing graduate work, which is entirely true, as graduate courses at practically all colleges have very large numbers of women at present. Women holding Master's degrees are a legion. 'One thing particularly interesting in this matter is that a number of colleges that do not admit women for undergraduate work, admit them into graduate courses. For instance, Yale University that has always been a man's college, allows women to do graduate work. Dr. Aurelia Reinhardt, president of Mills College, California, did her graduate work in that institution. WE have a group of women in the United States prominent in science. Among these are Maria Mitchel (dead), Annie J. Cannon, Florence R. Sabin, and Alice Hamilton. Florence Rena Sabin, an M. D., is a member of the faculty of Johns Hopkins University. Alice Hamilton, like Florence Sabin, is a physician, and has served on the faculty of a number of universities. She is at present on the faculty of Harvard University.. Annie J. Cannon is a noted astronomer. She has the reputation of having discovered three hundred variable stars and five new ones. She has completed a catalog with 225,000 stars which fills nine quarto volumes of the annals, all of which are published, and still she continues to catalog. 612 To w have a group of women who head colleges in the United States. Prominent among these are Dr. Aurelia H. Reinhardt, president of Mills College; Dr. Katharine Blunt of Connecticut College, New London, Connecticut, who assumed her duties a year ago; Ada Louise Comstock, president of Radcliffe College since 1923, who has received from Mt. Holyoke, Michigan, and Smith, an honorary doctor's degree. Other college presidents, some of whom have doctor's degrees, are: Mary E. Woolley, president of Mt. Holyoke College; Marion Edwards Park, president of Bryn Mawr College, and Ellen F. Pendleton, president of Wellesley College. About fourteen or fifteen years ago the National Education Association adopted a policy of electing a woman for their president every other year. All parts of the country have been represented. From the West we have had Josephine Preston, who was State Superintendent of Public Instruction in the State of Washington; from the extreme East, Mary McSkimmon of Massachusetts, for many years president of the Massachusetts Federation of Teachers; Charl Williams of Tennessee; while the recent meeting at Columbus, Ohio, was presided over by Ruth Pyrtle of Nebraska. A fairly large group of women have received the honorary degree of Doctor of Philosophy or Doctor of Letters. Some of these people are college presidents, some, members of college faculties; but within RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE recent years the policy has been extended. Due to President Glen Frank of the University of Wisconsin, a different group has been recognized. Whether Mr. Frank took a leaf out of an English book is not known, but this much is true: that in 1922 Queen Mary of England received an honorary doctor's degree at the University of Aberdeen; and later, something over four years ago, Sybil Thorndike, distinguished London actress who had played the role of Joan in George Bernard Shaw's Saint Joan, received a doctor's degree from the University of Edinburgh. Very possibly, following this good example, the University of Wisconsin conferred honorary degrees on Maude Adams and Minnie Madden Fisk in 1928. The next year, Mrs William L. Breeze, known in the field of letters as Zona Gale,- received the degree of Doctor of Letters from Wisconsin. The ceremony, that gave to America's two great actresses and a well known writer the honor of Doctor of Letters, was distinguished in the highest sense of the word. Few persons possess the literary ability of President Frank, and in writing cameos, or the presentation speech for degrees, he is at his best. In June, 1929, Smith College conferred the degree of Doctor of Philosophy on Mrs. Calvin Coolidge. 'So far as we know, Mrs. Coolidge is the first wife of a President of the United States to receive the honorary doctor's degree from any college. Smith was her alma mater. Such work is trail-blazing of a very high and -worthy character. What the Woman's Movement Means to the World By H, C, Singer i most countries except France women have attained the franchise; and now their vision is wider and varied, although constantly to the fore is the incessant demand for equality. From national issues women turned to international problems and their solutions. Even in countries where the franchise has not been given to woman and gross inequality in the law still prevails, the struggle is not alone with national problems; organization now tends toward international cooperation, keeping, however, to the main element in hand—equality. Women Organize in all Countries Despite the varied religions of Europe, some holding the poor conception of woman as a chattel, we find women there organizing to maintain their rights. Christian or Moslem, the movement is definitely striving to place woman where she should be, at least as man's equal. Women of the United States, with its varied races and creeds, Canada with her modern and ancient ideas, and Southern American Republics whose theology is rooted deep in the soil of antiquity—all combine to demand equality in the vast struggle. L has required years of long, hard work to educate, persuade, and thrust the ranks of womanhood along the road to reach the basis (the vote) from which a concerted effort could be made to the goal, equality. Even in Canada the old idea of chattel contrasts vigorously with the modern growth and theory of equality; in the varied States of our nation attempts have been made to retain and preserve the ancient statutes that had their origin in French, Spanish, and British laws, and were founded on the old idea of woman as a chattel. In South America, despite the ancient theory and French and Spanish laws regarding the status of woman and the absence of sex legislation, the native conception of the superiority of womanhood seems to have had a decided effect. Both in Great Britain and in the United States the conception of woman's rights now tends towards equality, although in the latter country a strong obstacle still exists among the women's ranks against equality because of varied state laws. France still refuses to grant her women franchise (and very few women are even concerned about it), while Great Britain still in many ways denies her women equality; and Argentina only a few years ago gave woman absolute equality in civil rights.