Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
 THE CHURCH MILITANT. Preparedness We hear a great deal about preparedness today, a Tenet of The Church militant is always in favor of prethe Church. paredness. And who can deny that the Church of Christ is always the Church Militant. Life is motion, activity, growth, expansion. Death is stagnation, inaction, passivity, contraction. All growth is aggressive. If the individual, the nation, the Church, would grow and develop there must be activity, aggressiveness, preparedness. The Savior drove out the money-changers with a stinging whip. He forgave His enemies, and He was called the Prince of Peace but He ? Himself said He came not to bring peace, but a sword. He knew that peace was possible, to the individual and to the nation, only through struggle, strife of forces, and the final achievement of righteousness. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was with us, one of his proudest titles was General of the Nauvoo Legion. Brigham Young sent a corps of brave soldier boys out into the mountain fastnesses to protect his people and their homes, in 1857. He charged them to shed no blood except in self-defense, and summed up the situation in these pregnant words: "Boys, say your prayers, and keep your powder dry." ; EDITORIAL. 649 The cry of peace, peace, sounds throughout the Peace, Peace, world, when war is raging everywhere. We Where There want peace, we strive to put our individual is no Peace., selves in harmony with divine and human law, so that we can be at peace. Our nation is at peace, but why should anyone want to go to war with us? We are too far away from Europe, too near the Mexicans. But we should be prepared, and well prepared, too, to guard our country's honor and the lives of her people. We want honorable peace but not peace at any price. When a burglar enters your bedroom, you'll We Must be be mighty glad if your husband has a pistol Prepared, handy and uses it, if necessary, to protect you and your home. If you live in a quarrelsome neighborhood, and your husband has occasion to go out on the street while there is a melee in progress, you will be glad your husband has means of defense, and be sure the quarreling neighbors will know if he has it, and will avoid attacking him as he passes by. No true woman enjoys association with cowardly men. She despises white-livered, mealy-mouthed apologizers, who not only turn their third cheek for assaults, but make doormats of themselves for their assailants. We ? want peace but the conditions must be right before we can ever expect to achieve peace. ? This nation is at peace not because any certain man or set of ? men have arranged it that way but because of our isolation, our youth, because we "spanked" Spain in the Cuban war, and set her down so hard that the rattling of her teeth resounded all over ? Europe but above all, because the Lord so wills it. Moreover, Latter-day Saints ought to know why this nation is not at war. Read your Book of Mormon. Well, war is not the worst calamity. Death, a What if War glorious, honorable death, is far more to be preShould Come? ferred than an ignoble, impure, pusillanimous life. People talk about death as if it were the grave of all hope, all effort, all growth. We know better. Death is an open door to a better life. ? Many men men whose morals are corrupt and whose bodies are disease-ridden? would be far better dead than alive. Such men should not be permitted to propagate their species. And if good, true men die on the battlefield, their end will be more glorious than their beginning. Let us. as Latter-day Saint women, pray and hope for honorable peace, but dread dishonor, stultification, inaction, slothfulness, vanity, all lusts of the flesh, and the abominations of the world, for ourselves and for our sons. Let us achieve action, progress, fulfilment of prophecy, expansion, and cultivate the aggressiveness of the gospel of truth and righteousness. ! ? Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE MARY References: Read Luke 1:26-56; 2:1-7; 2:41-52; John 2:111; 19:25-27. Which Mary, do you ask? There is but one to consider the Mary ? she who has the unique distinction of being the mother of God. Among womankind she stands absolutely alone, the envied and the adored. To this high privilege of hers, generations before her day looked forward to this great fact in her life, ; generations after her have looked back with reverent eyes, and blessed her name. What genuine woman would not give all she has to be so esteemed of men and of angels? Motherhood, to the Hebrew woman, meant more than it could possibly mean to the woman of any other nation whatsoever. And for this reason Besides the instinctive longing for maternity: that pulsates in the breast of every normal woman, the Jewish woman dwelt constantly in the thought, which grew into the hope, that she, of all the women of Israel, might become the mother of the Messiah ? of Him who was to strike off the yoke from the necks of the Jews and redeem the whole people. For throughout all the years, from the days of Sarah who "conceived in her old age" to the self-righteous Pharisee who twisted and misinterpreted the Scriptures, the prophecy later embodied in Isaiah's words, "Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, " and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is 'God with us,' was understood in a very literal sense by those to whom it was given. And Mary was the choice of the chosen, the blessed of the blessed The Latter-day Saints do not envelop Mary in the mist and remoteness that most others do in the Christian world. They do not pray to her as the intermediary between them and her glorious Son. On the contrary, they hold her in a high and substantial ? reverence a reverence that has its basis in an intelligent understanding of the great law of life and progress and that would be utterly impossible to a mind beclouded by the generally accepted notions of "the immaculate conception." : ; GUIDE LESSONS. 651 Mary's uniqueness, therefore, consists in the fact that her Child, in the words of Dr. Talmage, "was begotten of Elohim, the Eternal Father, not in violation of natural law but in accordance with a higher manifestation thereof." Nor should this idea shock one's sense of sanctity who has the conception of woman's function in life that he ought to have. Rather does it exalt her into companionship with the highest intelligences, and place sex relationship among the highest functions in individual life. The same angel who visited Zacharias appeared to her. But her attitude was different from that of the priest, for she said, after the announcement of the birth of Jesus: "Behold the handmaid of the Lord be it unto me according to thy word." After; this, as we know, she paid a visit to her cousin Elizabeth. On this occasion it was that she gave expression, as Luke tells us, to the "Magnificat," through which her spirit shines "My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall; call me blessed. He that is mighty hath done to me great things, and holy is his name. His mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. He hath shown strength with his arm he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree. He hath filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he hath sent empty away. He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy, as he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever." Her confinement took place at Bethlehem, although her home was at Nazareth. After the birth, when it appeared that Herod wished to kill the new-born King of the Jews, Joseph took his wife and the Child to Egypt. About two years later, when Herod was dead, the couple returned with Jesus to their home town. Here Mary lived, most probably, all the rest of her life, not counting her yearly visits to Jerusalem to attend the feasts of the Passover. It was on one of these visits that Mary and her husband missed Jesus and found Him later discoursing in the temple with "the doctors, both hearing them and asking them questions." "And his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." And it was His mother that "kept all these sayings in her heart." We read of her again at the marriage at Cana. She tells her Son, who was at the feast, that all the wine was gone and later instructed the servants to do "whatsoever he saith unto you." After this, on one or two occasions, we find her evidently following the great Teacher, standing without the circle of people that generally surrounded Him. The last glimpse we get of her is at the cross, which must have been full of agony not only for Him 
 but for her. She and John were standing together. When Jesus saw them, He said to her, "Woman, behold thy son," referring doubtless to His disciple for immediately afterward He said to; John, "Behold thy mother." And the "disciple whom Jesus loved" took her to his own home "from that hour." QUESTIONS. 1. Give all the facts that you know of Mary in their order. 2. In what sense is the fatherhood of Jesus generally understood by Christians? 3. In what sense do the Latter-day Saints understand this matter? 4. Which satisfies your intelligence the better? Why? 5. Why should Mary be so highly regarded by Christian nations? 6. Why did Jewish women desire motherhood? 7.What are the reasons for desiring maternity today among the Latter-day Saints? 8. What do you think were the traits of character of Mary? (In answering this last question do not say what you do not have any authority for.) LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in December. GENEALOGY. ANGLO-SAXON SURNAMES. It will be interesting and profitable for the class to take up a brief study of the early history of Great Britain. This can be done from any school or library history. There should be a little inquiry made into the invasion of Britain in the third century by the Saxons. A little should be learned about Hengist and Horsa ? ? a century later A. D. 449 with an inquiry into the invasion of the Angles and Saxons and Jutes of the southern coftnties of England. It will be impossible to get a comprehensive knowledge of English surnames without this preliminary study into early English history. GUIDE LESSONS. 653 The Saxons, as all of these barbarian Teutons were called by the conquered Britons, were fierce, warlike and savage in their conduct and traditions. The Roman civilization which had been planted there by the efforts of Emperor Claudius was swept violently away by the Saxon invaders. The courts, forms of office, laws of marriage, and inheritance were suppressed. Even the language of science, of business, and of daily conversation which had been introduced by the Romans, was lost in the general revolution. By the end of the fifth century, England had lost all practical trace of both the Celtic and the Roman customs and nomenclature. The Saxons, like all primitive peoples, had but one name, and like all such peoples, the name was given because of some bodily blemish, or perfection, some condition of the parents' mind when the child was born, or because of some whim or impulse which actuated the parent or guardian in giving the name. In every intelligent community the giving of the name has always been regarded as a solemnity, often accompanied with a religious rite. ? Personal names, later called Christian names those simple individual names which were given by the Saxons to their children, were but for the life of him to whom they were attached they ? died with him and were not passed on to his descendants. The Saxons knew nothing of surnames as such. Many Saxon names became moulded into surnames after William the Conqueror hitroduced the foundation habit of making surnames. Such names as Harold, Ethelreda, Edith and Ermentrude are all Saxon names. Osbern, which came over from Juteland, Jalf, Juin or Juing which was the Norman scribe's spelling of Young, were common in those days. Gamel, meaning senior, was the father. Aylward, Aluric, Leofwin, Finn, meaning Dane; Syward, Thorlog, Tovie, Ulward, corrupted later into Willard, and Dolfin. These are some of the names which were given by the AngloSaxons. Childe was often given to the youngest member of the family, but the Anglo-Saxons had no known surnames whatever except in the way of added nick names or sobriquets. There was Harold the Unready, Osbern the Red, signifying the color of his hair, and Eric the Black, or Black Eric, meaning the eyes and hair color of the possessor. "Among the Angles, Saxons, Teutons of Germany, and Scandinavians, an almost unlimited variety of personal names existed. These could be formed with facility by combinations, in v;hich the designations of gods, beasts, and birds, even of inanimate objects, could be made use of, with expletives added. "The deities from whom they drew their origin, who reigned in Valhalla, and ruled the course of events, were the Aesir, the singular of which is As. Hence came such names Asbjorn, Osborn (the divine bear) Asmund, Osmund (the hand of the god) ; ; : 
 Aswald, Oswald (the power of the As) ; Oswin (the friend of the ancestral deity). "Or, again, a special deity was honored, as Thor, the Thunderer; Thorfrid is the Peace of Thor; Thorbjorn, the Bear of Thor. An archbishop of York who died in 1140 was Thursten? the Sacrificial Stone on Thor, across which the spine of the victim was snapped. "In the temples and at religious feasts a caldron was employed, filled with blood, that was splashed over the image, and v>'hich was used as well for boiling the horseflesh for the sacrificial feast. This was the kettil, and hence we have Thorketill and Osketill. "Frey was another god. Freymund was the Hand of God, ? and Freystan still among us as a surname. Freestone the Stone ? of Frey. "Gud was a name employed before Christianity was finally accepted, as a name of God, without any very fixed idea being attached to it; but when the English were converted it entered into numerous combinations, as Guthfrid (the Peace of God), Guthrie (the Power of God), Godwin (the Friend of God). "Arn, the Ea,gle into which, according to myth, Wuotan had transformed himself, gave names, as Arnor (the Eagle Arrow), Arnvid (the Eagle Wood), Arnkill (the sacrificial kettle of Odin the Eagle). The Finns, from whom tribute was taken by. the Norwegian kings, were regarded with not a little awe as necromancers, but marriages were entered into with them, and the name of Finn penetrated into the nomenclature of the offspring, as Finnlong, Thorfin or the name Halfdan was employed, indicative of mixed blood. "Qualities also entered into the) composition of names, as Ethelburg (the noble stronghold), Ethelred (the noble counselor), Eadward (the defender of his property). The list might be greatly extended, but this must suffice." We give here the list of Anglo-Saxon and Danish names found in Domesday Book Aben, Achi, Acum, Aedric Grim, Aelfag, Elfag, Aergrim, Ailm, Ailmar melc, Aki, Aldene tope, Algrim, Alii, Alnod Grutt, Alric, Alsi Bolla, Alured biga, Aluric, Alward, Alwin, Amod, Andrac, Anunt dacus (properly "Omund the Dane"), Ape, Appe, Archilbar, Ardegrip, Aregrim, Arngrim, Aschilbar, Aseloc, Auto, Azor, Baco, Bar, Basin, Biga, Bil, Boda, Bode, Bodus, Bou, Bu, Boui, Bricstoward, Brictuar Bubba, Brihtuold, Bunda, Bonde, Bondi, Buni, Bondo, Caflo, Cava, Cavo, Cavus, Celcott, Cheteber, Chetelber, Chetelbern (properly Ketelbjorn), Clac, Col, Cola, Cole, Colle, Colo, Coole, Couta, Crin, Dedol, Doda, Dode, Dodo, Don, Done, Donne, Donnus, Edlouedief, Elmer, Edric, Edwin, Edward, Eldille, Elsi, Epy, Ergrim, Esber (properly Osbern), : GUIDE LESSONS. 655 Eurewacre, Felaga, Fot, Fnglo, Gam, Game, Gamel, Gamelcarl, Gamilbar, Gumelbar, Gamiltorf, Gathne, Gilepatric, Glunier, Godtovi, Goleathegn, Gold, Golnil, Gos, Gribol, Grimulf, Haltor, Heltor, Huna, Hunus, Hunc, Htmi, Hunic, Hunni, Hunnett, Jalf, Jaul, Juin, Juing, Kee, Kettelbern, Kettelbert, Lambecarl, Leswin, Lewric, Lewin, Lure, Maban, Munnius, Magno, Suert, Moithar, Offa, Osbert, Oslac, Phin, Pin, Ram, Ramechil, Roc, Rozo, Saleman, Salpus, Sbern, Scheit, Scett, Scotcol, Seiar, Seiard, Siward Bar, Siward barn for Bjorn, Sessi, Sindi, Snellinc, Snode, Snot, Sol, Spriites and Spirtes, Spert, Stam, Stanker, Ster, Sterr, Sterre, Stur, Strui, Suartcol, Swenus Suart, Thol, Thole, Tholi, Tol, Toli, Thor, Tor, Tou, Toul, Tovi, Towi, Tiirlogi (properly Thorlaug), Uuward, Unfac, Wadel, Wadhel, Welp, Wilegrip, Wit, Elward Levet, Wardrou. QUESTIONS. Who were Hengist and Horsa? How did the coming of the Angles, Saxons and Jutes (or Danes) affect the languag^e of Great Britain? What was the character of the Saxons? What other people had but one name? What can you say of Christian names? Give instances of Saxon names. Reference Books "Story of Family Names," by S. Baring-Gould. "Christian Names," by Charlotte Yonge. "English Surnames," by Beardsley. These books can be purchased through the Genealogical Society of Utah. They can be consulted in most public libraries. If libraries are without them, ask to have them put in stock. ART AND ARCHITECTURE. December. "on earth peace, good will to men." This is the Christmas month, and let our art work consist of bringing something beautiful into the home, not from the shops, but from Nature which is never tired of giving to those who seek. Put on thick boots and let us go in search of the wild Christmas holly. On the mountains we will find mountain ash, wild rose berries, joint-grass by the creeks, and the Oregon grape, or mountain holly, and in the highest spots mistletoe may be found. If the snow blanket is not heavy, rose berries will still be intact and the Oregon grape will still be found under the light! 
 MAGAZINE. snow. The beautiful "box" will be seen in patches on the creek banks. These will make a festive Christmas decoration, and will be more admired than the commonplace Christmas holly, so you may carry home gunny sacks of beautiful sprays from your own mountains. DECORATION. Don't forget the Christmas table. If there is nothing green in your vicinity, make mats for your table. I have seen my mother fold and cut ornate, lacy mats of green from green paper to put under the meat platter and the vegetable dishes. She made bells of red to hang over the mantel. I often use English ivy which is effective on the lace curtains in little sprays and in long festoons hung over chandeliers, shelves, sideboard, pictures, clock and favorite family portraits. And in keeping with all this, the ivy should complete the table decorations. Unique place cards for Christmas may be made with bunches of green slipped through a slit in the card. Be sure and add a Christmas wish with the name of the guest. An old English custom is to bring in "The Christmas Rose," which might revive. QUESTIONS. a. Describe Christmas Day with the snow blanket. What are the colors of the shadows? Describe the appearance of the snow-covered foliage. Describe the sky of Christmas night, the stars in the sky, and the landscape with the lights in the houses. Tell a unique way of dressing the Christmas tree without the cheap tinsel decoration so commonly used. The first Christmas tree we had for our children was decorated with Japanese trimmings which we hunted out from a Japanese store. There were tiny colored jugs, small teapots, fans, tiny baloons and lanterns. Every kind of animal we could find made by those cunning Japanese workers, as chickens, monkeys, etc., we hung on the trees. An artist friend in whose family were no children, gave us some icicles of glass, little jars brought from Europe, and many other interesting trinkets. The candlesticks were tiny flowers with a device to cling to the tree. A few paper baskets made by my mother, and always a stork hanging in the top of the tree, made a charming work of art for the children to enjoy. No commercial or vulgar toys were used, and many were the children that came to view it. Each thing was treasured from year to year with always an addition of something rare or unique. Kow different from the many foolish, gaudy trees I have seen, and which other people seem to take some pleasure with b. Suggest a unique plan for hanging up Christmas stocking