Notes From the Field By Amy Brown Lyman European Mission. French Mission Relief Societies. YVollowing are excerpts. From a letter from Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, president of the Relief Societies of the French mission, who reports the introduction of the work into France. The French mission includes Belgium, Switzerland and France. "I am stre the General Board will be happy to know that the Relief Society has now been jinRELIEF SOCIETY, LYONS, FRANCE troduced into the French nation, and that two organizations are functioning each in the cities of Lyons'and Besancon, France. To my best knowledge these are the first organizations that have been effected in France. Although missionaries had labored there before the Great War, there are no indications nor records showing that a Relief Society had been operating. It was at Lyons on November 3, 1926, that the first organization was made, with a membership of five. (The membership of the Society has now increased above that number.) At Besancon the association was organized January 18, 1927, with a membership of five. The members in both of these branches are of a very fine type. They are very enthusiastic over their work. At the present time they are busy preparing for bazaars which are expected to be held in the near future. The Relief Society work in our mission is progressing in a very pleasing way. The Societies in Belgium NOTES FROM THE FIELD 359 and Switzerland which have been organized for many years have doubled {their activity. Previous to the organization of the French mission, which has been effected since the War, the activities of the Relief Societies were considered a very unimportant feature of the mission. Belgium, at that time, was a conference of the Netherlands mission, and Switzerland was a part of the Swiss and German mission. The language of the above named missions being foreign to that of the French conferences, was largely responsible for the lack of interest taken in, the activities of this mission. Since its organization as a unit of its own, functioning apart from any other mission, the work has progressed much more satisfactorily, thus permitting a development of many new phases of Relief Society work in the year 1926, as the ert will show compared with the activities as accomplished in 1925," Norwegian Mission Relief Societies. The Relief Societies of the various branches in the Norwegian mission celebrated the organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842, with socials held in their respective meeting places. In Oslo branch, lantern slides of Utah scenery were shown, and needlework articles, etc., sold. President Mina Christiansen spoke. Of the Society's organization. Mission President Martin Christophersen told of his personal acquaintance with many of the leading sisters of the organization in Utah, of the great good they have done, he said he knew they were directed by the Spirit of God, because of the success they were having. A social was held in the Drammen branch. President Marie Anthonsen spoke of the 'Society's purpose. A good program was rendered, and a poem composed by the presiding Elder Marius A. J. Hall, was read. Remarks were then made by him, and refreshments were served. There were sixty-two present. President Cecilie Nielsen took charge of the Arendal branch, and stated the purpose of the organization. Presiding Elder John T. B. Johnsen then spoke. A program was rendered and refreshments served. There were fifteen present. In Frédrikshald branch a social was held in the home of Brother 'Jens Johansen, President Anna Johansen in charge. Branch President Gustav Andersen spoke and also Sister Johansen. A program was rendered and refreshments served and a few games played. President Anna Rindal had 'charge in Frondhjem branch. A very splendid program was presented and Conference President Harold Eriksen spoke of the great work that these Societies are doing. Remarks were made 'by Sisters Marie Voldseth, Marit Ingdal and Lagerta Christiansen, and Brother John Oien told of the difficulties the Society first had when organized at Trondhjem, but now they are prosperous. Refreshments were served. In Narvik branch (the most northern branch of the Church) a social was held, President Aslaug Sorensen in charge. Elder Elias J. Ellefsen spoke on the first Society's organization in 1842, 
 and of the good work they had been able to perform. At the same time they celebrated the day of the reorganization of the branch, March 14, 1922, five years "ago. The branch president, Fmil Evensen gave a report of the work that has been performed during these five years, and following is some of the results: There have been held 401 meetings, ten persons have been baptized, nine children blessed, and ten ordinations to the priesthood. Srother Alfred Sorensen also spoke, and refreshments were served. There was a very good attendance. President Sina Gundersen had charge in 'Bergen branch. A report of the work of the Society for last year was given by First Counselor Astrid Berentsen. A very 'good program was rendered, and refreshments were served. The presiding elder, Ole Andersen, spoke of the organization of the Society in Nauvoo, 1842, with eighteen members; and he urged the sisters to be faithful in their good work. J ifty-seven sisters were present. In Stavanger branch a social was held, President Hanna Thorgersen in charge. A very good program was rendered, and a poem composed by brother Martin Halvorsen was read by himself. Elder William Bjorndal made some remarks and Branch President Hilmer Bjorndal spoke concerning the organization of the Society. Refreshments were served and the table was prettily decorated with flags and flowers. There was a very good attendance. Two ladies not belonging to the Church asked to be made members of the Society. In Haugesund branch they held a bazaar, President Otilie Haugen in charge. A good program was rendered. Sisters Nicoline Petersen and Haugen made remarks concerning the organization of the Society. There were twenty-two present. Jaurez Stake. The Dublan and Juarez ward Relief Societies have made arrangements for maternity beds, where women from the mountain districts may come for care. The Jaurez stake last year offered a prize of a lovely book for 100% attendance at regular Relief Society meetings. The honor went to Dublan ward. Dublan ward has a very excellent choir, which furnishes singing once per month in the sacrament meetings. Grant Stake. The 17th of March anniversary was fittingly observed in the Grant stake tabernacle. A cantata, "The Opened Door," written by Mrs. Lucy May Green Mortenson and Mrs. Ida Horne White was given under the able direction of Mrs. White. The prologue, descriptive of the condition existing in the world for woman before the organization of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and her achievements since that day, was written and read by Mrs. Louise Y. Robinson. The Cantata was NOTES FROM THE FIELD 361 followed by a pageant written by Mrs. Edith Ivins Lamoreaux, portraying the many opportunities for women, particularly in our Church. During the rendition an ovation was paid Mrs. Ida H. White for her years of faithful service in Relief Society work, a large basket of flowers being presented to her by the Relief Society stake board. Liberty Stake (September, 1926 plans). Liberty stake Relief Societies used the month of September as an introduction to the year's work: The first Tuesday was devoted to a teachers' convention, the second Tuesday to a business meeting. On the third Tuesday opening socials were held in all the wards, and on the fourth Tuesday the October theology lesson was given to avoid a conflict with the October conference which comes the first week in October and which all Relief Society women in the city desire to attend. Special effort was made through the social to interest every woman in the ward, first by extensive advertising with notices, handbills, written invitations and personal visits; secondly, by sociability at the entertainment with hearty greetings, names. Pinned on each guest, room attractively arranged, mixed up games and dances, community singing, gift giving and refreshments. Following is one of the plans submitted in union meeting, in the presidents' department: Jucreased Attendance—"Every woman a member—or know the reason WHY." How to Secure— Get a list of non-members and delinquent members; give these - names to enlisting and receiving committee; when soliciting attendance, call attention to provisions for taking care of children at meetings; advertise the meetings by: visiting teachers and members, special attractions, notices, cards, etc. The New Member's First Visit—Arrange to have someone call for her; give her a hearty welcome; explain rules for admission; invite 'her to come next time make her leave-taking cordial. Converting the Newcomers—Conduct meeting with dispatch; have class teachers well prepared; make lessons inspiring; give her something to do. Sevier Stake. The Sevier stake Relief Society engineered a very unusually interesting evening in commemoration of the 85th anniversary of the organization, on the evening of the 17th of March, beginning with an excellent program at the High School Auditorium, each of the wards in the stake furnishing a high class number. After the program everyone took advantage of the free dance at the Anona, where many were costumed to represent pioneers, and both old and new dances were indulged in. The stake is blessed with a free Clinic which operates for mothers and pre-school children the first Thursday in each month. Many mothers and children have been examined and. Given first aid where needed, 
 also advice as to what to do to regain normal health, and to retain good health. North Davis Stake. The North Davis stake recently held a stake teachers' convention, with 200 present, some of the women coming fifteen miles in a snow storm to attend. All the wards of the stake celebrated the anniversary of the organization on March 17. The bishops of the wards have come to feel that this day answers for a ward _ celebration and reunion. Everyone in the ward, including children, count on it from year to year. Three of the wards served dinner to between six and seven hundred people, ending with a ball at night. Non-"Mormons" count it as the one day of the year they enjoy. Beaver Stake. Health conferences have recently been held in various parts of the stake, and hundreds of children examined. The follow-up work is now being attended to. The 17th of March was celebrated with appropriate programs throughout the stake. The Beaver East and West ward Societies joined in their activities on that day. Two special features of the afternoon's program, a monologue entitled ""A New Lease on Life," and a one act play, "Joint Owners in Pain," added much to the pleasure of the occasion. The committee in charge awarded prizes to various persons present as follows: Oldest lady, youngest mother, member of Relief Society longest, mother of largest family, mother of triplets, and much merriment was caused when the gentleman present with the longest feet was also given a prize. A ball was given in the evening in the Opera House, and because of the large attendance, these two Societies netted a nice sum of money. Central States Mission (Rio Grande Relief Society). On February 13 of this year the Rio Grande Relief Society was organized at Donna, Texas, where the branch conference was held, by President and Mrs. S. O. Bennion. The women are delighted with this blessing which has come to them, which is proved by their interest and activity. The officers are: president, Mrs. Ellen H. Jolley; counselors, Mrs. Florence Lindsey and Mrs. Jessie G. Ghormley; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Inez L. Smith; chorister, Mrs. Pearl C.. Dewey. A business session was held immediately to determine 'ways and means of raising funds for books, etc., and a week later at a plate liincheon; $9.75 was cleared. When the Society was one month old the following had been accomplished: Four business meetings held, one social, Theology and Testimony meeting, five subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine secured, one quilt pieced, record and six teachers' books NOTES FROM THI FIELD 363 ordered and paid for, and $14.75 balance in the treasury. There are twelve members enrolled in the Society. Carbon Stake (Summer Program, 1927).. July, First Week: Theology (Discussion of choice bible stories, testimony); Second Week: Special Theme—Patriotism, Work and Business; Third Week: Literature, (Discussion of Utah Writers); Fourth Week: Social Service (Health Work). August, First Week: Theology, (Bible stories continued, testimony); Second Week: Special Theme—Parenthood, Work and Business; 'Third Week: Literature (Local Writers—prize offered for best composition among local writers); Fourth Week: Social Service (Health Work); Fifth Week, Summer Party. September, First Week: Theology (The Pearl of Great Price—what it contains and its history, testimony); Second Week: Work and Business; Third Veek: Literature (Local Writers continued— awar ding of prize for best: local production); Fourth Week: Social Service (Health work). Suggestive Program for ward conferences: 1. Sustaining of Relief Society officers, (a) General officers stistained as a group without mentioning names. (b) Stake officers sustained as a group without mentioning names. (c) Ward officers, visiting teachers and class leaders sustained in groups, naming individuals, (5 minutes). 2. Report of ward activities by ward president, (10 minutes). 3. Items from annual report by ward secretary, including comparisons with last year's report, or items from ward Relief Society history, (10 minutes). 4. Music (5 minutes). 5. Are we doing our part to help finance the charity work? Stake Board member, (10 minutes). 6.- Two minute talk on the life of a favorite author studied in the past year in literature lessons, and reading from same, by ward Relief Society member, (5 minutes). 7. A Social Service lesson and its application, by Social Service class leader, (10 minutes). 8. Hew we may apply the Ten Commandments to our daily lives, Stake Board member, (10 minutes). 9. Closing exercises. Notice—W heat Interest This year's rate of interest on Relief Society Wheat lunds on deposit with the Presiding Bishop has heen fixed by the First Presidency at 6% which is an increase of 1% over the rate of last year. Cheeks for interest will be mailed from the Presiding Bishops office July Ist.