Americanism Interpreted by the Church, the Constitution and the Flag Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund—Member of General Board If I were to seek for a text for my address this inorning, I should probably turn to Proverbs, and quote, ""Remove not the ancient landmarks set up by your fathers;" and I should go further and say, Keep them ever before your eyes, cherish them in your hearts, honor them in every act of your lives! I should then interpret those landmarks to mean the great events in our country's history, and the heroic truths we have ever had taught us, as foundation principles upon which our spiriiual and our national life has been reared. We have always been a loyal people; patriotism has been a part of our very being. There has never been any question as to the attitude of. This Church. One cannot be a consistent Latter-day Saint in this land who is not also a devoted believer in the destiny of this great country. This is the perfectly natural development in the descendants of those who founded this commonwealth. Those men and women chosen to bring forth the gospel in this dispensation, and plant it here in the tops of the mountains, were, for the most part, sons and daughters of those who established this Republic, who made and preserved us a Nation. Senator Beveridge said upon one occasicn that his hat was off to the people who went on record with the statement that the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States were drafted under the inspiration of God himself. This we have always believed, and we have believed, too, without the shadow of a doubt, the assertion contained in the Book of Mormon that "this is a land choice above all other lands," and that this flag should be an ensign to all the nations. Look for a brief moment at the history of our past. In 316 * RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE December, 1845, during the darkest days of our Nauvoo trouble, this was the reply of the high council and the authorities of the Church to the question of our people's loyalty—'We feel the injuries that we have sustained; and are not insensible of the wrongs that we have suffered; still we are Americans." In the following Summer, when the people had in very deed become homeless in their own land, came the call from the government for the "Mormon" Battalion. We can only note in passing that this story, taken in its complete setting, gives a proof of our love and loyalty to God 'and country that can never fade as long as | history is written. The story of the birth of Utah is like a page of family history to most of us, and when we read that beautiful story of the prayer dedicating this land to God, and the people to his service, its parallel will come to our minds in the heroic group on the shores of New England, kneeling in prayer, and seeking divine guidance for the commonwealth they hoped to found. On the 26th day of July, 1847, President Brigham Young and some of his followers ascended the mountain above the Hot Springs to get a better view of the surrounding country. As they stood upon this point, President Young remarked that this was the spot upon which to lift up an ensign, referring, no doubt, to Isaiah's prophecy. The suggestion was carried out later, and our state was, as it were, born under the Stars and Stripes. The Church and school house arose along with the first poor dwellings. I have always felt that we could say with Webster, "Who could wish his country's beginning otherwise? Her first breath was with intelligence—her first thought the inspiration of liberty!' In October, 1681, the telegraph line across the continent was completed, and President Young was courteously tendered the privilege of sending the first message from Salt Lake City. It was sent to the president of the Telegraph Company—Mr. J. H. Wade. As follows: "Sir: Permit me to congratulate you upon the completion of The Overland Telegraph Lines, west to this city—to commend the energy displayed by yourself and associates in the rapid and successful prosecution of a work so beneficial; and to express the wish that its use may ever, tend to promote the true interests of the dwellers upon both the Atlantic and Pacific slopes of our continent. Utah has not seceded, but is firm for the constitution and laws of our once happy country, and is warmly interested in such useful enterprises as the one so far completed." In making his reply Mr. Wade expressed gratitude to President Young that his, the first message to pass over the line, should express so unmistakably the patriotism and union-loving sentiments of himself and his people.; In April, 1862, President Lincoln requested President Young to raise a force of cavalry to guard the overland route. This AMERICANISM 317 was promptly done—even before'the request came the offer had been made by President Young.; The record of our people in the Spanish-American and the great World wars needs but to be suggested, and in this connection I am always reminded that there was no faltering on our part when the supreme test came: "Greater love hath no man than that a man lay down his life for his friends" (country). _ The type of citizens which the Latter-day Saints have made everywhere they have settled, demonstrates that according to their ideal, good citizenship demands something active. We must be useful to our Church, to our country, and to our fellowmen, and upon this usefulness all else depends. As one of our greatest men has said: "The way to be patriotic in America is not only to love America, but to love the duty that is nearest to our hand and know that in performing it we are serving our country." We are a liberty-loving peopie but we undersiand liverty to mean a freedom of choice in regulating one's conduct. It does not consist in mere declarations of the rights of man, but in the translation of those declarations into definite, constructive action. Perhaps it is well for us to pause for a moment, and consider _ the heritage which is ours, and the age in which we live. Life is an jntense problem today, and we are all of us more or less absorbed in our individual ambitions, necessities, and duties, but from the very brief outline I have so imperfectly traced of our people, I think we may safely say there are two outstanding factors which constitute what we may call our heritage, and these are our religion and our government; the one giving us the only satisfying solution of life itself, pointing to the only road which leads to peace and happiness in this world, and salvation in the next; the other giving us law, order and liberty, without which we cannot get on in this world. So defined, our heritage demands much of us, if we are to hand it on unimpared; an immense amount of careful thinking and earnest, prayerful effort. As I said in the beginning, my purpose is to make a plea for the "landmarks of our fathers," and to show, if I can, their vital place in our lives today, if we would worthily carry on the work that is ours. We live in an age of irreverence and of merciless criticism. As Chauncey M. Depew said in one of his latest articles, "We carry criticism too far, and the analytic spirit is rampant. We are like children who dissect that with which they are happy until the sawdust pours out of the doll, or it fails to work when the machinery is wrecked." This does not mean that we should not seek to find our errors and correct them when we find them, but we should be careful in passing judgment to discriminate between the true and the false, to have proper sense of values in our criticism. Above-all else we should seek, with understanding hearts, to know those eternal truths in our faith and in our gov- 318 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ernment, and apply them in our daily life. The very fate of democracy rests with the people themselves. If our free fnstitutions are to endure, we must be able to produce intelligent, capable leaders, with an enlightened public back of them. It is "We the people' who ordain this Constitution quite as much today as it was in 1789, for the 'Constitution of the United States is the fundamental laws or principles of government by which the people of this nation agree to begoverned, resting, as it does, upon the principle that all governments derived their just powers from the consent of the governed. George Washington said: "The basis of our political system is the right of the pecple to make and to alter their constitution of government," and Lord Bryce added: "The American Constitution has stood unbroken because it has submitted to a process of constant, though sometimes scarcely perceptible change, which has adapted it to the conditions and needs of each new age." The formation of the Constitution of the United States was one of the most important events in history. It gave to mankind the first adequate type of government by the people, capable of being extended to the greatest of nations, and established the union of the states upon a foundation on which was actually reared this mighty nation of ours. The journal of the Constitutional Convention that formed such a government is the most instructive treatise in constructive political science ever given to the world. Roosevelt said no American could consider his education complete without it. I might go on and quote volumes of splendid tributes and treaties on our Constituton, but that, I take it, is not the purpose of this talk, but rather to stress the importance of the Constitution to us in our daily lives, to call attention to the inestimable value of American citizenship, the highest gift within the province of the state, the object of heroic struggle all through the ages. Do we realize that this citizenship carries with it duties and sacred obligations, as well as privileges? Are we real assets in our communities? Are we interested in civic improvement and welfare measures? Do we know our public servants and support and help them in the discharge of their duties? Do we take an interest in the selection of candidates for office, attend our primaries where the real choice is made, and. Use our franchise wisely? Do we seek to understand the laws, those on the statute books, and those in process of enactment? Do we honor and obey the law in small things as well as in great? These are some of the commonplace factors in life, but they show real patriotism and love of country. My sisters, let us consider them, and in this age of merciless criticism, when all the idols of the past are discredited, let us read and understand the constitution of our country, and teach our children the immortal story of the Declaration of Independence and the Flag. Let us realize the truth that the cure AMERICANISM 319 for all our ills lies in our own hands, if we but choose to use our powers. I know of no one who has more beautifully expressed the message of the flag than has Franklin K. Lane. Among many fine things he said: "We are all making the flag, who says to us, 'I am not the flag; not at all, I am but its shadow, I am whatever you make me, nothing more. J am no more than what you believe me to be, and I am all that you believe I can be. I swing before your eyes as a bright gleam of color, as a symbol of yourself, the pictured suggestion of that big thing which makes this nation. My stars and my stripes are your dream and your labors. They are bright with cheer, brilliant with courage, firm with faith, because you have made them so out of your hearts. For you are the makers of the flag, and it is well that you glory 399 in the making'. 'We love America, not because she is the richest and most powerful nation in the world today, but for the moral force, the great spiritual ideal, which, in spite of all statements to the contrary, lies in her heart of hearts, and never fails to find expression in great crises. This is the ideal I would have our flag carry to all the world, and I would not have any nation fear America unless it feels that it is engaged in an enterprise contrary to the rights of humanity. "I do not know," to use the words of the great war president, "that there will ever be a Declaration of Independence for mankind, but I believe that if any such document is ever drawn, it will be drawn in the Spirit of the American Declaration of Independence. America has lifted high the light which will shine unto all generations and guide the feet of mankind to the goal of justice and liberty and peace." Walter Lippman has said that all the ideals which our national fathers derived from the great Father of all nations, found expression in the words of Abraham Lincoln? These words consecrate the loftiest of American ideals, be@tuse in them the finest morality of the individual American is identified at last with the morality of the nation. They ring just as true and as timely now as they did when they were: uttered sixty-two years ago. My sisters, let us make them our creed of Americanism today: "With malice towards none; with charity for all; with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan; to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations." Epitors' Note The Conference addresses of President A. W. Ivins, and of Secretary Amy Brown Lyman will appear in the August issue.