[Vol46 | December 1959 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Relief | Author: Citation]
Relief Society Ilagazine Witvanded Cover Gitation THE highest award for quality of colored magazine covers was awarded to The Relief Society Magazine by the Simpson Lee Paper Company in September 1959. The award was granted in recognition of the beautiful December 1958 cover — "The Rest on the Flight Into Egypt" from a painting by Gerard David, from the Mellon Collection, courtesy the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. The award plaque was presented to President Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society and General Manager of the Magazine, by C. L. Nordstrom, Northwest Sales Representative of the paper company. Mr. Nordstrom explained that the award was made after salesmen of the Zellerbach Paper Company, distributors for the Simpson Lee Company, Page 805 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 had considered and appraised samples of magazine covers from eleven Western states. Brochure award. There were eighty entries competing for the four-color Judges selecting the winning entry were professors from the University of California, and Stanford University, a world renowned artist, and two other craftsmen. The cover has been placed on permanent display i in the Simpson Lee Gallery of Fine Printing at Everett, Washington, and the award plaque has been placed in the library of the Relief Society building. A similar award was made to the Deseret News Press for the Mr. L. C. Jacobsen, Manager of the Press, retion work on the cover. Ceived this award. Produc- I She ol viegakens of Clristevas Mabel Harmer of the country are filled with Christmas stories and poems, and carols are broadcast over the air waves and chimed by bells. Only a small fraction of the enormous magazine output can really be called literature, but much of it can be enjoyed. A prime example is the poem "The Night Before Christmas." It was written by Clement Moore a century ago to please his own children, and without any thought of publication, and yet, in all probability, no children's poem has been more loved. His description of the "Jolly old fellow" made the pattern of Santa Claus that has appeared in pictures and at holiday parties ever since. It was a contemporary of Clement Moore's, however — although in another country — who actually started the annual rash of Christmas stories. From the time Charles Dickens' "Christmas Carol" first appeared in print — to an instant of Christmas the magazines popularity — writers have struggled to emulate that success. Many of these stories are forgotten by mid-January, but a few gems have survived to delight us over and over again. In fact, they are made more precious by long acquaintance. First among these treasured gems, perhaps, is the Dickens story, which was produced for many years over the radio by Lionel Barrymore until his death; it was read by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the White House annually to his family, and, doubtless, is enjoyed yearly by countless other folk at their own firesides. Alongside of Dickens, rank Henry Van Dyke, who, in his superb short stories, filled in the details of what might have happened at the scene on that Holy Night. In his story of "Phe Other Wise Man," he weaves the tale of the wicked Herod who ordered the death of all the children in Bethlehem under two years of age.