President Antoine R. Ivins of the First Council of Seventy

= President Antoine Ridgeway Ivins, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, passed away October 18, 1967 at the age of eighty-six. He succeeded President Levi Edgar Young as the senior president in 1963. President Ivins has been a member of the First Council of Seventy for thirty-six years. During that time he spent three years as head of the Mexican Mission and thirty years as a member of the Church missionary committee.

A native of St. George, Utah, he was the son of Anthony Woodward and Elizabeth Ashby Snow Ivins. His father was a member of the Quorum of the Twelve and a Counselor in the First Presidency to President Heber J. Grant. Most of President Ivins' early life was spent in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico. He obtained his early education in Colonia Dublan, and was graduated from the Juarez Academy and studied law at the School of Jurisprudence in Mexico City. He also studied at the University of Michigan, then returned to Utah and was graduated from the University of Utah. He was a fluent 14 speaker and a thorough scholar of Spanish.

In 1920 he helped build the Lund Home for Boys at Centerville, Utah. He served six years as treasurer of the Great Salt Lake Boy Scout Council and organized several Scout troops. Before his appointment to the First Council of Seventy, President Ivins was manager of the Church-owned sugar plantation in Hawaii.

Throughout his life, he was dedicated to the gospel, and an active supporter of the youth. In 1957, he received the "All-Church" Honorary Master M-Man award for "outstanding service to the youth of the Church." He married Vilate Ellen Romney in the Salt Lake Temple, June 26, 1912. Sister Ivins passed away in 1964, two years after they celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary.

The General Board and members of Relief Society in all stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy to President Ivins' family and his many friends. He has left a heritage resplendent in faith and good works, and an excellent example of devotion to the Church for all to follow.

President Belle S. Spafford

The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce the appointment by the First Presidency of Sister Evon Waspe Peterson as General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society on November 15, 1967.

Sister Peterson has served as a member of the General Board since , during which time she has made a significant contribution to the advancement of the work of Relief Society as a General Board member, and has endeared herself to the women of Relief Society through her thoughtful consideration of them and through her capable service in working with them. In , she was named Administrative Assistant to the General Presidency, a position which involves responsible managerial duties, which she has met with competency and in a spirit of dedicated service. Through training and experience in both Relief Society work and in the field of business, Sister Peterson is eminently qualified to hold the important office of General Secretary-Treasurer. Prior to her call to the General Board, she held responsible positions with the Red Cross, was secretary for the Community Chest drive for several years, and for ten years she was secretary to the Superintendent of the Granite School District. Since her childhood, she has consistently worked in the auxiliaries of the Church, serving the Relief Society in both ward and stake capacities, generally holding secretary-treasurer or presidency offices. Sister Peterson is by nature modest and unassuming. She is loyal to those who preside over her and is trustworthy in every assignment given her. She is a prodigious as well as a highly competent worker. She is the wife of John Vernon Peterson and the mother of two children—a daughter, Carolee Peterson Kempton, and a son, Ronald E. Peterson—all of whom devotedly support her in her Church callings. She is the grandmother of six children. Sister Peterson's parental home—the home of Brother and Sister William Waspe, converts to the Church from England—was a home where service to the Church was a way of life. In her new appointment, she has the love and confidence of the General Presidency and her associates on the General Board. Her future service will be a blessing to the sisters and to the Relief Society just as her past service has been. We all wish for her much happiness in her new calling.