Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Halaevalu Mata'aho Ahome'e, last July, stood behind her husband, Taufa'ahau Tupou IV, as he was crowned King of Tonga, and she was then crowned Queen. She was reminded that her high calling was "ministering to His Majesty with queenly grace and inspiring the people of this kingdom to noble living." Mission President John H. Groberg and Sister Jean S. Groberg, Mission Relief Society Supervisor, officially invited guests at the ceremony in the Royal Chapel, were impressed with the royal dedication to a righteous rule among the 75,000 Tongans (over 10,000 are Latter-day Saints). The Queen receives a gift subscription to The and tells her close friend, Mission Relief Society President, Tu'avava'u Mapa, that she enjoys reading it. Sarah Churchill is the author of "A Thread of Tapestry" (Dodd, Mead publishers) 'a personal and loving testament' to her illustrious father Winston Churchill, the great statesman, humanitarian, patriot, and man of "'lasting letters." Mrs. Pratt Romney, a Latter-day Saint woman, who was first employed as a teacher in Colonia Dublan, Mexico, was recently honored by the International Senior League of the Los Angeles (California) High School Alumni Association as the "National Teacher of the Year." She was awarded a golden apple mounted on a pedestal, and a large document signed by the officials of the Los Angeles organization. Although Mrs. Romney has not been a 'regular' schoolteacher for forty years, her accomplishments are still bearing fruit and her influence is lovingly remembered. Kate Simon has written three readable, informative, and evocative guidebooks on New York, Mexico, and Paris. The last, "Paris Places and Pleasures" (Putman), is the best. All stir nostalgic delight in rereading after visiting these fascinating places. Mrs. Clydia Mae Richardson, who has been Chief of Presidential Commissions since 1943, was born and reared on a cattle ranch in South Dakota. She stamps State documents with the Great Seal of the United States. Adopted in 1782, the design of the seal is also on dollar bills. Dr. Marjorie Nemes is the only woman member of a team of four eminent researchers who are associated with the Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research, in attempting to find a new and effective defense against viruses. The four scientists are conducting experiments on substances which they hope will activate the cells of the human body to produce more "interferon," a mysterious component of the cells which, apparently, enables them to make effective resistance against certain types of viruses. Svetlana Alliluyeva, Stalin's daughter who defected from Russia to freedom in the West, plans to give a 'substantial part' of the high-figure proceeds from the serialization of her book about Soviet Russia to the United States for charitable purposes. Part will also go to the Pestalozzi project in Switzerland, where refugee children from many nations are learning to live together and like each other. EDITORIAL With the responsibility which the Lord has placed on parents in regard to their responsibility toward their children (D&C 68:25-28), mothers will give anxious watchcare today to the welfare of their daughters. Especially, during these troubled times, do they need to give special attention to teenagers to guard against some current social trends and fashions that, if adopted, could adversely affect the future of their daughters' lives. The adverse influence of some of these is so subtle as to be almost unrecognizable until it takes over in the life of a young girl. Some extreme fashion trends are becoming a commonplace mode of dress and seem to have won general acceptance, with a failure to see any particular harm in them. A case in point is the present miniskirt fashion trend with skirts seeming to grow continuously shorter and less modest. The Church has always taught the importance of modesty in dress. There is no question as to the present need for emphasis on this teaching. Latter-day Saint parents, particularly mothers whose influence upon a girl is a potent one, should accept the counsel of Church leaders and teach their daughters by example and wise counsel satisfactorily 'to withstand the popularity pressure of the mini-skirt and other types of immodest clothing. They will assist their daughters to make their own clothing if this is necessary to preserve modesty. Mothers will make sure their own attitudes and dress are in harmony with Church teachings if they expect their teen-age daughters to grow into exemplary Latter-day Saint women. Volume Number 1 ws Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp,