Shirley Thulin

When is an apron not an apron? 
' \ When it's a "hang-a-bout." These new front coverups are so practical and so easy to make you will want several. The teenagers in the family will especially like them because they are so easy to slip into, and have no middle ties to pull in and crease their no-waistline dresses while they help with Sunday dinner.

This apron is made from a terry towel —nice for the cook who is constantly wiping her hands. Another handy feature is the easy-to-slip-into neckband, for keeping the hairdo in place. You will need a large-sized kitchen towel or hand towel. Pick one which is bright and cheerful, and one that has fringe on the ends.

You will also need the yoke pattern to a muu-muu or other round-necked slip-on garment, for the neck must be large enough to need no placket or other opening.

For the yoke, choose cotton fabric of a bright solid color to match one of the colors in the terry.

Cut out the yoke pattern. It will usually be four pieces (figure 1). 
Stitch both front pieces to both back pieces at the shoulders. Now you will have two circles with shoulder seams (figure 2). 
Turn up and baste a narrow hem 1/4 inch around all raw edges of both circles (only turn this 1/4 inch once).

Cut off the fringe from one edge of the towel. Make two small tucks in the towel, about two inches from the selvage edge as you baste the towel to the front edge of one of the circles (figure 3). Be sure to center the towel to the front part of the circle.

Now place the other circle on top of the circle which has the towel basted to it, wrong sides together. Now zigzag, or bind with bias, the two circles together all around the outer edge and also around the neck opening.

If you use bias tape, it will have to be top stitched across the edge where the towel is. Now your "hang-about" is finished (figure 5). Make a Hangabout Apron

Figure 1 Front
Figure 2 Peco mania HAC La iio atlhit
Figure 
1 large onion, grated 
1 c. Sugar 
1 tsp. Salt 
Y tsp. Pepper 
Y tsp. Dry mustard 
j 1 tsp. Dry horseradish, or fresh, if available 
1 large bottle of catsup (use catsup bottle as measure) 
filled with salad oil (use same bottle filled with vinegar) 
Combine ingredients. Stir vigorously and serve over lettuce or tossed salads.

Norma Sepp
Harrogate, Yorkshire, England

8 c. Sugar 
2 1/2 Qts. Washed and stemmed \ 3/4 gooseberries 
Place sugar in heavy kettle over medium heat. Stir continuously until sugar is dissolved. Do not let it turn brown. Add gooseberries and stir carefully until jam thickens. Small amounts do not take more than 12 to 15 minutes cooking. Pour into jars and seal.

leftover yellow or white cake, 2 c. Fruit broken into pieces 
1 pkg. Vanilla pudding mix 
1 pkg. Desired flavor Jello 
1 can cherry pie filling or similar product whipped cream 
Prepare Jello as directed on package, using fruit juice as part of the liquid. Cool slightly and pour over the cake. Prepare pudding, cool, and add fruit (peaches, apricots, mandarin oranges, fruit cocktail, pineapple, fresh or frozen berries, bananas, or any combination). Chill and spread over cake and Jello mixture. Top with cherry pie filling and a layer of whipped cream or commercial whip, or a combination of both.

1 gallon canned apricots 
10 c. Sugar 
1 no. 2 can crushed pineapple 
2 or 3 pkg. Orange Jello 
Cook apricots, pineapple, and sugar until fairly thick. Stir often. Remove from heat and add 2 or 3 packages of orange Jello. Store in jars in refrigerator or seal in sterilized jars. The Home Inside and Out

4 tbsp. Sugar 
3 1/2 |b. Margarine or butter 
10 c. Flour 
2 1/2 tsp. Salt 
5 tbsp. Baking powder 
Sift flour with salt, baking power, and sugar. Cut in margarine or butter until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add milk all at once and mix until dough follows fork around bowl. Turn out on floured board and pat into a flat circle 3/4 inches thick. Cut with biscuit cutter. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet in hot oven (450°) for 15 minutes. Handle the dough very lightly and quickly. This is the secret of light, fluffy biscuits. Serves 25.

2 chickens, 4-5 lbs. each 
1 c. Flour 
2-3 stalks celery milk, as needed 
2 large onions fresh or canned mushrooms, as desired 
2-6 tsp. Salt 
1 small can pimentos (optional) 
Place chicken which has been cut into pieces, celery, onions, and salt, in a kettle with enough water just to barely cover them. Simmer until chicken is very tender. Remove from broth and let cool. Cut chicken into fairly large pieces. Discard skin and bones. Heat fat skimmed from top of broth and add at least 1 c. Flour. Add margarine to increase fat if necessary. When flour and fat are bubbly, remove from heat to cool slightly. Add enough milk to broth to make approximately 6 quarts of liquid and stir constantly until mixture comes to a boil and thickens. Saute mushrooms and add to broth mixture, together with pimento and chicken pieces. Place kettle in pan of hot water and heat slowly. Taste for salt. Serve over hot baking powder biscuits which can be made while chicken is heating. Serves 25.