SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 87—"Be Thou Humble" (D&C 112:10) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 112)

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman views her own life in light of the commandment to be humble, with the great promised blessings.

The Prophet Joseph Smith wrote that, during the year 1837, a spirit of speculation in lands and property of all kinds, which was prevalent throughout the country, took hold of the members of the Church. Out of this practice other evils developed, such as faultfinding, evil-surmising, dissension, and apostasy. He said that no quorum of the Church was entirely exempt from the influence of these evil powers, and that even some of the Twelve Apostles were overcome with this spirit. Amidst this unrest and apostasy, the Lord revealed to him that "something new must be done for the salvation of His Church." (DHC II:487.) As a result, the first foreign mission of the Church was organized under the leadership of Elder Heber C. Kimball of the Quorum of the Twelve. Consequently, in June 1837, he was set apart to preside over the missionary work in England. The same day the gospel of Jesus Christ was first preached in England, the Lord gave Section 112 for the special benefit of Elder Thomas B. Marsh, President of the Quorum of the Twelve, and also for the other members of that Quorum. (DHC II:487-499.)

Especially important for Elder Marsh was the following truth: Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers. (D&C 112:10.) Throughout the Doctrine and Covenants there are revealed truths which, though addressed to individuals, are nonetheless applicable to all members of the Church. These scriptures are known as universal truths because of their applicability to everyone. Such is the one quoted above.

The exemplar of humility was the Savior. He was completely submissive to the will of his Father in heaven. Premortally Jesus was one of the Godhead and Creator of many worlds before he came to earth. (Moses 2:26; Colossians 1:16-17.) In that life he desired that the fulness of honor be given to the Father at the time of the Council in Heaven, when decisions were reached concerning the eternal advancement of the spirit children of the Father. (Moses 4:1-4.) In the plan of salvation, Jesus willingly submitted to the will of the Father in becoming the Atoner of man. (John 17:4; Luke 22:39-45.) Every member of the Church should reflect upon the cost of the atonement made by Jesus, for the price was very great in terms of suffering. (D&C 19:15-19.) During his ministry he became the pattern for all men. In regard to baptism, which he taught was essential, Jesus showed the way by humbling himself before the Father in submitting to baptism. (2 Nephi 31:5-10.)

If you were to follow the Savior in the virtue of humility, what kind of changes would you make in your life?

The first answer to a query by the Latter-day Saint as to why he should be humble is that God has commanded men to be humble. The benefits of being humble must also give the answer to the need for this virtue. If humility is to submit oneself to the will of God, then it follows that salvation in his kingdom is obtainable only through this virtue. (Mosiah 3:18-19.) What, according to the revelations, makes of this quality the pathway to salvation? Obedience to the commandments is the first essential. (Matt. 7:21.) The Lord blesses the person of humility. In what ways?
(1) He "shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers." (D&C 112:10.)
(2) The Lord's Spirit enlightens the humble. (Ibid., 136:33.)
(3) "Let him that is ignorant learn wisdom by humbling himself" (Ibid., v. 32.)
(4) The promise of seeing and knowing the Lord is made to the humble. (Ibid., 67:10.)
(5) His arm of mercy is extended to the humble in freeing them of bondage. (Mosiah 29:18-20.)
(6) The weak are made strong and are thus able to fulfill other commandments. (Ether 12:26-27.)
(7) They receive knowledge. (D&C 1:28.)
(8) The blessing of assisting the Lord in his work comes to the humble. (Ibid., 12:8.)

As the Savior ministered unto all, even to the giving of his life, so we also should become the servants of all in exercising the virtue of humility. (Matt. 20:25-28.) The apostle Paul testified that he had made himself servant of all that he might gain the more. (I Cor. 9:19.) Might not Latter-day Saints develop the quality of humility, as commanded, in order that they also "might gain the more," even life eternal?

Six months after the Church was organized, the Lord gave a revelation for the benefit of Thomas B. Marsh, the same person who is the subject of the revelation from which the scripture-theme of this lesson is taken. He was counseled to govern his house in meekness. (D&C 31:9.) But he failed to be sufficiently humble when his wife was convicted of a dishonest deed. As a result, Brother Marsh, in a period of disaffection, left the Church because of his lack of humility. Due to his pride and arrogance and unwillingness to follow the leadership of the Church, he apostatized while President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, in 1838.

Among the ways by which the virtue of humility may be acquired are the following:
(1) to place one's full trust in Jesus Christ as his Atoner;
(2) by fasting and prayer;
(3) through diligent study of the plan of salvation;
(4) by being teachable; and
(5) elimination of vices opposed to humility.

The first principle of the gospel is faith in Jesus Christ as the Only Begotten Son of God. As the Savior of men through the atonement, he satisfied the demands of justice and mercy for all men. (Alma 42:5-15; Moroni 7:39-42.) The humble person recognizes that there is no salvation in this world nor in the world to come without faith in Christ as his Redeemer. (2 Nephi 9:6-13.)

One of the most beneficial practices to develop humility is to place oneself in subjection to the Father through fasting and prayer. By fasting one shows his willingness to subject his physical appetite to his own will and to God's will by keeping the commandment. Sometimes one must force himself to obey and thus, in gaining one victory, he is prepared for other accomplishments.

President Brigham Young once said that if a person did not feel like praying, he should get down on his knees and stay there until he felt like it. (Journal of Discourses 16:28.) By yielding one's heart to God in fasting and praying, one becomes stronger in faith and humility. (Helaman 3:55.)

It seems inconsistent to believe that a member of the Church can be ignorant of the principles of the gospel and remain fully subject to the Father. Certainly, no man can be saved in ignorance. (D&C 131:6.) To do the will of the Father, it is necessary to know what his will is. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that if a person did not get knowledge, he would be brought into captivity by some evil power from the other world. (DHC IV:588.)

The humble person is he who has a deep, abiding faith in the Lord. Elder John A. Widtsoe has pointed out that the extent of a person's faith depends in part on the amount of his knowledge. The degree of faith possessed by any man depends not upon the extent of his knowledge but upon the certainty of his knowledge, which leads to the proper use of his knowledge. (Joseph Smith, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, 1951 edition, p. 163.)

An important factor in having the assurance of gospel truth is not only to have an academic knowledge of the gospel but also to receive the Spirit of the Lord testifying of its truth. President Brigham Young, in this way, admonished the saints to receive this blessing: Let us be humble, fervent, submissive, yielding ourselves to the will of the Lord, and there is no danger but that we shall have His Spirit to guide us. (Journal of Discourses 13:155.)

Class Discussion
Show why a knowledge of the gospel can develop humility.

An important phase of humility is teachableness; that is, the ability to place oneself in harmony with the principles of the gospel. The person who is unteachable, hard to accept revelation, lacks the necessary humility. The comparison between the adult who is saved in the kingdom of God and the little child best illustrates the quality of teachableness and the need for it.

The Savior placed a child before his disciples and gave two requirements for them to enter the kingdom of heaven: (1) become converted; and (2) become as little children. His closing point was: Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. (Matt. 18:1-4.)

Reliance upon the scriptures was enjoined upon the Church by the Twelve Apostles, in 1838, as follows: Be careful that you teach not for the word of God the commandments of men, nor the doctrines of men, nor the ordinances of men, inasmuch as you are God's messengers. Study the word of God and preach it and not your opinions, for no man's opinion is worth a straw. Advance no principle but what you can prove, for one scriptural proof is worth ten thousand opinions. (DHC III:395-396.)

Class Discussion
What makes a humble person teachable?

The last suggestion as to how one may develop the quality of humility is to eliminate every barrier to one's success in that development. The vice found in the revelations which is opposed to humility is inordinate pride. Inordinate pride has several manifestations, such as boasting and vainglory. Pride is condemned in the scriptures because it is the opposite of humility. It is self-esteem arising out of one's possessions, position, or accomplishments.

The apostle John wrote: Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father but is of the world. (I John 2:15-16.)

Boasting is a manifestation of pride. When people boast about their wealth, education, business ability, physical prowess, or works of righteousness, they lack humility. Vainglory is extreme self-pride or excessive ostentatious vanity. The apostle Paul counseled nothing be done in vainglory but that all should esteem others better than themselves. (Phil. 2:3.)

Class Discussion
Should the Latter-day Saint believe that he should eliminate all pride from his life, or that inordinate pride is the evil?

The gospel of Jesus Christ extols humility as a prime requisite to eternal life. Submission to the will of God is the key to happiness here and eternal joys in the life to come.

As already mentioned in this lesson, the Savior was the epitome of meekness. In his promise to the faithful he declared that, in accepting him, one would receive rest to his soul, for he was "meek and lowly in heart." (Matt. 11:29.)

Service to others is an integral part of the gospel plan; consequently, one may understand why humility is a basic ingredient of that plan, for without humility the greatest service to man would not be rendered.

Jesus' humility did not conflict with his strong condemnation of the Pharisees and lawyers who ignored the spirit of the law. (Luke 11:37-54.) He vigorously taught the truth without fear, even to the giving of his life for that truth. (Mark 14:43-65.)

The person possessed of humility is strong. Living the gospel gives strength over weakness. Assisted by the Holy Ghost the member of the Church rises above the base, worldly vices and, being armed with truth and righteousness, is possessed of a power that may eventually culminate in the powers of godhood.

Class Discussion
Explain why one can be humble and yet be forceful in his promulgation of gospel truth.

To be humble requires submission to the will of the Father as instructed in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The objective of this lesson will be realized when those who come within its influence learn why the Lord requires that his people incorporate this virtue into their lives. It will not be accomplished until each person develops a program of soul searching to determine wherein he lacks the qualities which are found in the truly humble person.

Eal