Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 6—''The Substance of Faith" Elder Robert K. Thomas (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas)

"Faith is the substance of things hoped for." —New Testament, Hebrews 11:1

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: When her life is lighted by eternal principles, a woman can live both in and above the world.

(Note to Class Leader: A consideration of the painting "Life From Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt, American Painter, and Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University, and his commentary thereon, as printed on page 688, 691, of the September issue of the , will be a part of this lesson.)

This lesson opens with a consideration of Matthew Arnold's well-known poem "Dover Beach":

The sea is calm to-night. The tide is full, the moon lies fair
Upon the straits;—on the French coast the light
Gleams and is gone; the cliffs of England stand,
Glimmering and vast, out in the tranquil bay.
MS 

Come to the window, sweet is the night-air!
Only, from the long line of spray
Where the sea meets the moon-blanch'd land
Listen! You hear the grating roar
Of pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling
At their return, up the high strand,
Begin, and cease, and then again begin,
With tremulous cadence slow, and bring
The eternal note of sadness in.

Sophocles long ago
Heard it on the Aegean, and it brought
Into his mind the turbid ebb and flow
Of human misery; we
Find also in the sound a thought,
Hearing it by this distant northern sea.
The sea of faith
Was once, too, at the full, and round earth's shore
Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furl'd.
But now I only hear
Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar,
Retreating to the breath
Of the night-wind down the vast edges drear
And naked shingles of the world.

Ah, love, let us be true
To one another! For the world, which seems
To lie before us like a land of dreams,
So various, so beautiful, so new
Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light,
Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain;
And we are here as on a darkling plain
Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight.
Where ignorant armies clash by night.

This poem has been so often analyzed and so widely praised for its imagery and diction that its message has almost assumed a minor role. Critics dismiss Arnold's suggestion that faith in human love must replace religious faith as a typical nineteenth century reaction to scientific discoveries which were calling many accepted beliefs into doubt. If such criticism is valid—and the perspective of a century would seem to support such a view—perhaps we need to see what this poem tells us about the religious faith it is so willing to abandon.

Arnold's basic image—faith as a tide—suggests that he does not expect religious faith to remain constant. As waters rise and fall, so faith may be more evident (or perhaps more possible) in certain epochs. Even more interesting is the secondary image of faith as a "bright girdle." The obvious picture here is a decorative sash or belt encircling the world. The connotations of such an image are revealing: Faith may be attractive but it is binding, restrictive. It also tries to include too much. Such a concept of faith implies an emphasis on conventional religion rather than on God. For it is quite possible to fall short of joy, peace, love, light, and help for pain if our devotional efforts are focused in forms and creeds.

The tragedy of this poem is not that religious faith is impossible, but that a mechanical substitute for a dynamic belief in God should be assumed to be religious faith. In one sense this poem may have been written before its time. Only a few of Arnold's contemporaries were moved by it in spite of its metrical finesse and beautifully modulated imagery. It is the twentieth century to which this poem speaks its cosmic sadness.

Why is Arnold's shift from religious faith to faith in human love liable to be disappointing?

Lesson Department

Altho gh Joseph Mazzini Wrote his In his essay, "Faith and the article on aith and th Uture'' almost ameract oP Mesring at na ca an exact "ontemporary of Arnold of moveme mphasizing ©. Dividu IS_under no such Illusions, rights in our ¢ Sie. Rnold Teaches fo, individual, uMan loy, » Mazzinj Points oyt

"FIRST LESSON" py PHILIP BOOTH OW short-lived and ineffectya] "First Lesson" by hilip Booth any human relationship Must be lets us see 4 Persuasiy nstance at is not based °n a profou O Substituting ith in nature for ath in that Which ty nscend ith in G ne sense, faith Individual Im. It is not ev. Nature can be Called faith jn ough to shift Cur loyalty fro Od's handiw k, but even such the single Person to the sr Shifting of "mphasis can or humanity S Only an aggrepa. Amaging, for it Suggests that lon of Individuals Until the an's fun tion on are Integrated by "g alm cap. Able of | arth is to adapt to the Natura] f, embracing life as a surround him.

His most telling point here is that insisting we put off a decision until the evidence is totally convincing, is not to avoid a choice. In such a state we have already chosen: and we have chosen to say no. In stating that the "faith-vetoer's" position is "better risk loss of truth than chance of error," he makes the skeptic appear more afraid of religion than the believer is of human reason. It is refreshing to see a beautifully logical mind brought to the support of a position which has often seemed overwhelmed by logic. Belief has never asserted its validity in the face of evidence. Faith, as the Bible tells us, is what we must use when the evidence is yet to be seen. Our whole lives are ventures in faith. We must believe in ourselves to undergo the discipline which prepares us for exacting and satisfying work; we must believe in others if the mutual benefits of civilization are to flourish; we must have faith in a country and a government if we are to live without fear; and we must believe in God if the whole fabric of our lives is to have meaning and significance.

For Discussion In the light of James' argument in "The Will to Believe," what might we say to a person who decided to let his eight-year-old child wait until he could choose for himself whether to be baptized into the Church? COOK ELEC? RIC ELD Pots and pans stay ''white glove'' clean If it's electric, it's better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY

SOUTHERN TEMPLES TOUR March 14-23
HAWAIIAN TOUR June 16-29
CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours
2230