Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First WEEK IN APRIL) PRAYERS OF REFERENCE Prayers of scriptural reference, i. ¢., those only referred to in scripture, become valuable when considered from the following points of view: First, the condition and circumstances under which they were written; second, the evident objective; third, the effect or result of the prayer. Even a list of prayers of reference would be too long to insert in this lesson; it will, therefore, be necessary to confine ourselves mainly to one example. The most memorable in the group of prayers of referenece is the first prayer of the first pair; the first soul's sincere desire uttered outside of Eden; the first approach of humanity toward Divinity; the beginning of correspondence between God and man; the first wireless between earth and heaven; the first conscious approach of man's helplessness that brought down God's helpfulness. Reference has been made to the first of all earthly petitions in previous lessons, both in statement and in problem, but nc attempt has been made toward any specific study of it. CIRCUMSTANCES AND CONDITIONS Adam and Eve, through circumstances that transpired in the garden, had become so predominatingly physical that the presence of their Father was unbearable: they fled from him in the garden, and he, out of necessity and with infinite mercy, banished them from Eden to where there would be a correspondence between their spiritual condition and their physical surrounding, and no danger of eternal existence without eternal progress, though prematurely taking of the Tree of Life. They were outcasts from Eden, and, so far as they knew, were dismissed not only from the presence of the Lord, but fromr his care, guardianship and interest. But unknown to them, his watchcare, solicitude and parental love never ceased to be over them. He had decreed that before the sentence of individual death which Adam faced that the race might live, was carried out, 110.—C««. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE angels should visit the fugitives-——Doctrine and Covenants, 29: 41 to 44. Alone, so far as they knew, the first pair battled with the elements, obeyed the first commandment of Eden with no knowiedge of a hereafter. No word to waken eternal hope, no pull te the beyond, of which they were conscious, except the yearning for immortality. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 5: 2-3.) As age crept on more intense grew the yearning within, stronger and stronger came the promptings from without, until outside of the Garden of Eden Adam and Eve offered the first prayer. GREAT OBJECTIVES What were the chief objectives of the first' petition? Was it wealth? They owned the earth. Was it health? Sickness seemed to have been unknown to them. Was it that eternal life knowledge, the way back to God, that they needed? That God lived they knew, but that he was reachable they did not know. They called for a renewal of speaking term acquaintance with him. It was the confident cry of the earth child to the heavenly Father, it was the universal cry, "What wouldst thou?" There were evidently two great objectives in this cry to heaven: Frist, to get the ear of the Lord; second, the obtaining of information through an answer to the question of the ages: "Lord, what shall we do?" A cry exemplified in the call of Saul at his conversion. (Acts 9:6.) The cry on the day of Pentecost. (Acts 2:27.) The appeal to the Lord as to what he would have us do to become his financial partners. (Doctrine and Covenants, Heading, Section 119.) RESULTS Aside from contemplating this prayer, as the initial factor in the opening of the first dispensation of the gospel, we shall be limited to a consideration of the results that directly affected Adam and Eve, the parents of the race. The consideration of the remote results affecting the human family would require volumes. THE FIRST SERIES OF RESULTS The first series of results from the first prayer includes: First, finding the voice of the Lord; (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 5:4;) second, receiving commandments; third, opportunity for exercise in the obedience of confidence, THE SECOND SERIES OF RESULTS The second series of results directly affecting the petitioner= covers: First, the sending of a messenger from heaven; second. The question that tested the simple faith of our first parents: GUIDE LESSONS dil third, the explanation of the symbolic sacrifice; fourth, the revelation of the doctrine of repentance; fifth, the first direct command to pray in the name of Christ; sixth, the individual testimony of the truth of the gospel; seventh, the first gift of prophecy tc man; eighth, the comprehension of the atonement as a plan for God to prove his love for man, and win man's love for God, tc the obtaining of eternal life; ninth, such a keen appreciation of the Lord's wisdom and power in the making of the Fall a means oi exaltation that they rejoiced in the choice they made in Eden, which, however, to this day would have been a source of regret had the Lord not brought good out of it. If it was a "fall upward,' man had no part in making it so. The fall left man with paradise lost, but by the grace of God it became a way to paradise regained. Tenth, the sacred responsibility of teachin: their children the gospel; eleventh, the giving of Adam and Eve a new birth by which he became a free agency son of God and she became a free agency daughter of God. (Pearl of Great Price, = Book of Moses, 5:7-12 and 6:57-68. Doctrine and Covenants 25:1.) Thus beginning with the unrecorded first prayer came ar evolution of the first couple, from babes in the woods, figuratevely speaking, to patriarch and matron, priest and priestess, prophe and prophetess, son and daughter of God. In this respect it will be well to remember that but for the revelation given through the Prophet Joseph, the world would be without direct knowledg of the standing of man and woman in the domestic circle of divinity; twelth, the negative result was the arousing of Satan which sincere prayer always does. We can see that this first prayer of the race may fittingly be called a dispensational prayer, and the first prayer of Joseph Smith comes also in this class. The Sacred Grove is the cherished spot where this latter petition was presented, and Adam-ondiAhman is the place where he blessed his children and wher ha will sit to judge mankind. One Hundred Years of Mormonism, pp. 217 and 219; L. D. S. Hymn Book p. 277; History of the Church, vol II, pp. 354-365; Doctrine and Covenants, section 107 verse 53, and section 116. Is it unreasonable to believe that Adam and Eve offered their first prayer on or near this spot? During one of our general conferences, in Salt Lake City: after the dismissal of an afternoon session, a stranger who was watching the throngs of people com from the tabernacle grounds, said to a news boy, 'What is this all about? Where have these people all come from? Where are they going to? I have never seen the like in any city of this size." "Oh," said the boy, "don't 112 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you know? This has all come from one little prayer, by one little boy. Buy a paper, please." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1, From what three standpoints may one profitably stud a prayer of scriptural reference? 2. Show that eternal life in their fallen state would havc been a case of everlasting unhappiness to Adam and Eve. 3. What were the two great objectives of the first prayer? 4, What were the first two commandments resulting from the first prayer? 5. Show that we can not get along in every-day life withou the obedience of confidence. 6. In what sense is baptism a free agency birth? 7. Prove from the scriptures that women may become: the daughters of God. 8. Why may the first prayer of Adam and Eve and the first prayer of Joseph Smith be called dispensational prayers? 9. Where is Adam-ondi-Ahman located, and how is it probably related to the first prayer? 10. What hymn was sting at Adam-ondi-Ahman? LESSON II. Work and Business (Second Week in April) LESSON ITI Literature (Third Week in April) In our foreword for this year, we promised a discussion of some of the leading hymns of Christendom. This lesson will be devoted to "Lead, Kindly Light," by John Henry Newman. The hymn is not found in the L. D. S. Hymn book, but is commonly found in the compilations of well known hymns of other Christian religionists. A period of religious storm and stress in Great Britain is marked by the years 1853 to 1857. The spirit of controversy waxed warm in Oxford University, where John Henry Newman. The noted English essayist, was located. Many of the thinking GUIDE LESSONS. © 113 men of the day were greatly disturbed because of the new science. Darwin's Origin of Species and his Descent of Man had. Made religionists feel that there was something radically wrong in the faith of their fathers, hence, there was a tendency to discard it Yet another group deplored the disposition on the part of the Protestants to adjust to science, and for that reason sought refuge in the Roman Catholic church. This movement at Oxford, 1828, greatly upset a group of literary men. Matthew Arnold grew pessimistic; so deeply impregnated are his poems with the spirit of pessimism that -he is known as the poet of pessimism. Arthur Hugh Clough grew despondent over the matter and suicided, while John Henry Newman finally sought refuge in the mother church. It was during the time of this great soul struggle that Newman wrote, 1833, "Lead, Kindly Light." This justly admired hymn was born in an agony of indecision, when its author was groping for the light. Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom, Lead thou me on; The night is dark, and I am far from home; Lead thou me on. Keep thou my feet: I do not ask to see The distant scene; one step enough for me." The first and second lines ask for God-to lead in this hour of spiritual confusion. Note the aptness of the words that convey the thought of spiritual uncertainty and darkness. "Lead. Kindly Light, amid the circling gloom," and "the night i: dark, and I am far from home." And again the same thought in other words, "keep thou my feet: I do not ask to see the dis'ant scene, one step enough for me." Mr. Newman has voiced a great spiritual truth, that it were well to accept and magnify a little truth and wait for the greater light than tc reject the little truth because it can not be seen in all its bearings and entirely. "T was not ever thus, nor prayed that thou Shouldst lead me on; I loved to choose and see my path, but now Lead thou me on. I loved the garish day, and spite of fears Pride ruled my will: remember not past years!" In the second stanza we have recognition on the part of the suppliant that those that would be led by the Lord must approach him in a spirit of humility. Most of the stanza is made up of a confession that he had not always been willing  that God should lead. He had felt as most people have undoubtedly felt, some time or other in their lives, that they would like to do a little of the leading themselves. "So long thy power has blest me, sure it still Will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, or crag and torrent, Till the night is gone. And with the morn those angel faces smile, Which I have loved long since and lost awhile. The last stanza is a stanza of faith. The poet feels there may be many severe trials to encounter before he shall see the light again, but there is within his soul an assurance that light wil be given, and that he will soon see the angel faces with thei smiles. It would seem that the poet intends that angel faces shall be taken as synonymous with heaven, as heaven is the abode of the angels, and the place from whence comes light and knowledge. The Oxford movement, 1828, that led to such confusion anc distress among a group of highly gifted men of letters, a well as others, surely must lead the Latter-day Saints to think seriously, for it was not a great many years before (1820) that the boy prophet, nothing doubting, had gone into the wood to pray and had asked the Father, in the simplicity of his heart, which of all the sects was right. The confusion abiding in his mind had been dispelled by a glorious vision in which appeared the Father and the Son. Somehow or other these men of learning did not have the power to unlock the heavens and receive answers to the questions that vexed both heart and brain; consequently there followed a series of soul tragedies.' John Henry Newman wandered back into the Roman Catholic church, after having been traditionated in the thought that the Church had departed from paths of truth and righteousness. Matthew Arnold constantly spoke of something that had gone, recognized the loss of a spiritual entity, without which man is sorely conditioned,. And sought soul's solace in the production of a mass of poetry so pessimistic that it is revolting to many who attempt to read it, despite its rather classic finish. Arthur Hugh Clough could see no hope, and died in doubt. Surely the scriptural statement found fulfilment, "and the wisdom of the wise shall perish." During this time, 1840, Parley P. Pratt was writing: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled! The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world.  The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." "Lead, Kindly Light" is one of the literary gems of Christian hymnology. The religious passion or feeling is at high water mark, while the imagery is apt and most delicate. This hymn, sung at President William McKinley's funeral service, is said to have been his favorite hymn. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Have the hymn read in its entirety to the class. Have it sung sometime during the meeting. ' 2. Is the word "Light" in the title used in a literal or figurative sense? 3. Select the words and phrases of the hymn that are indicative of mental struggle. 4, The terms "Church of England," "Established church "Anglican church," and "Episcopal church" are terms used to identify the state church in England. Which. Terms are most commonly used in America? Have some English convert or descendant of some English convert tell the class which terms ar most commonly used in England. 4, What church do people have in mind when they speak cf the mother church? 6. Prove from the experience of these men that "the wisdom and the wise shall perish." 7. How did Joseph Smith obtain his knowledge concerning God and spiritual things? LESSON IV Social Service. (FourtH WEEK IN APRIL) HEALTH EDUCATION AND THE HOME In Lesson III we discussed the significance of health to husband and father, wife and mother. In the present lesson we shall consider the problems of health education, or the problem of health as it concerns the prospective husbands and fathers, wives and mothers. Obviously the task of convincing youth of the significance of conserving their physical vitality and developing healthy and strong bodies is quite as important as that of educating ourselves as parents in this matter, and certainly more difficult. 116 » RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WHY YOUTH SHOULD BE TAUGHT PRINCIPLES OF HEALTH It may not be a pleasant thing for a father to teach his son or for the mother to teach her daughter the serious responsibilities and demands which the marriage relation will impose upon them. As parents we enjoy presenting to our young people only the bright side of married life. And it is very desirable that youth contemplate a' bright and glorious future. But they should, at the present time, know the conditions which make for a successful and happy home. Work is not unpleasant; it is enjoyed by the healthy man and woman; but to the person of poor health, it is drudgery. It may seem cruel for the mother to inform her daughter, who may be yet only in her teens or early twenties, of the problems before her, but it is far less cruel to do this thto permit her to live a life carelessly or ignorantly which will lesson her vitality—through improper dress, lack of sleep, and other habits common to young women of this period of life. The duties of a wife and mother are beautiful and glorious, but they become so only to the woman who is strong enough to carrv the responsibilities which that life imposes. It is far better for young people to spend a few moments now and then with their parents in serious conversation on these matters than that they should spend hours later in life rehearsing their mistakes. It is quite natural for all of us to assume, when every thing appears to run smoothly, that all is well. We do not want to anticipate evil. We let the future care for its own troubles. Too often our attention is aroused only when it is too late. PHYSICAL CONSEQUENCES OF SIN At the present time considerable interest has been aroused as a result of the startling fact presented to us by the government concerning the extent of the ravages of the venereal diseases. We are informed that during one year, 1919, there were more human beings injured and killed from venereal diseases than the United States lost during the entire war in France. When we realize that a large proportion of these who are thus made to suffer are innocent victims, it seems doubly important that we take every precaution to protect our homes. One of the best ways to do this is to inform our sons and daughters of the nature and consequences of these diseases. We do not want our innocent daughters to become sterile, our grand-children to be destroyed before or at birth, or to be born blind and helpless. To avoid these things, we must candidly inform our sons and daughters of the danger of intimate and free associations with men and women whose lives and character they know very little about. We do not exaggerate when we say that more suffering GUIDE LESSONS — 117 after marriage results from ignorance, carelessness, and sin before mariage than from any other cause. THE BLESSINGS FOLLOWING A NORMAL LIFE But health education for home has a positive as well as a negative side. Youth should be taught the evil consequences of carelessness and sin, but they should also be taught the posi'ive values that come from sensible living and moral conduct We have already called attention to a number of good things which come to a healthy family, but besides these there are two blessings not frequently discussed, which are nevertheless very real and important. They are attractiveness and cheerfulness. Whatever else love between husband and wife rests upon, it is quite certain that physical attractiveness counts for something. A woman is more attractive to a man when she enjoys the bloom ef health than when she does not. On the other hand, a strong. Healthy man is certainly more attractive to a woman than is > physical weakling. Although attractiveness is not the only condition of love, it is one of the conditions, and one of sufficient importance to deserve a reasonable share of sensible consideration. Too often young people spend considerable time and money {rying to improve their personal appearance when after all what many of them need is a little more sleep, more wholesome food, and the vigor, alertness, and charm that good health brings. Not only does good health bring beauty and attractiveness, so essential in the relationship between husband and wife, but it carries stinshine and cheerfulness with it. It is very difficult for one whose health is poor to keep in good spirits. If the leaders of the home, those who direct in all its many activities. Are not enioying good health, they are ustially not cheerful, they naturally do not radiate happiness but a spirit of despondency: and since they are the most influential members of the family group, others are sure to partake to a degree, at least, of that snirit. But we must not be unmindful, however, of the fact that there are personalities with sufficient strength and character to rdiate the spirit of love and cheer even when in phvsical distress. The history of the homes of manv Latter-day Saints reveal numerous characters of this sort. But the exception does not disprove the general rule that with good health comes cheerfulress and with ill-health comes despondency. Good health goes a long way toward making home a desirable place to be. SUMMARY OF PRINCIPLES OF HEALTH Our limited space does not permit of detailed discussion on the question of how health may be preserved, but the following  suggestions may serve our purpose: (1) Every member of the family, be he young or old, should be taught to respect his body— the tabernacle of his spirit. He should be taught the "Word of Wisdom" in its deepest significance. (2) During adolescence, the changing period of life, youth should receive from his parents a frank and honest explanation of the meaning and significance of the reproductive organs. The physical consequence of vice and immorality should be made clear in the minds of maturing youth. (3) The importance of wholesome food, proper hours of sleep, and recreation, as well as of habits of cleanliness, should be impressed upon the minds of youth. (4) Lectures, as well as articles and books on health subjects are now within the reach of the people of practically every community, and earnest effort should, therefore, be made to take advantage of these opportunities for health education. It would be a splendid thing to set apart an evening a week for one year as a family period for health study. If these simple suggestions should be observed, it would not be long before results would manifest themselves, first in better health, and secondly, in the things that follow good health— success, contentment, happiness. QUESTIONS 1. What conditions do you think render a man and a woman unfit for marriage? 2. What are some of the physical consequences of a sexual immoral life? What is the effect upon the home? 3. Why is the period between fourteen and twenty-five so important from the standpoint of health instruction? 4, Give examples of common habits among youth which tend to weaken their physical constitutions and thus render them less fit to become parents? 5. What constructive criticism can you give the high schools that will tend toward better health among our adolescent girls? 6. Does the fact that marriage and parenthood require constant work make such. Relations less desirable? What might we expect would be the results if these heavy responsibilities. And demands for work did not accompany married life? TOPIC FOR TEACHERS April—Organization of the Church. I. Most perfect organization in the world. II. Responsibility of its entire membership. To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine man- 'agement and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide' publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appcar on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! Monday, Jan. 30th at "THE PARIS" BEGINNING SEMI-ANNUAL DISCOUNT SALE Entire Stock 25 to 50 percent. See Sunday Tribune. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in al! Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid ' Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. ' Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City It is our helpfulness and willingness in assuming the responsibility for the succcess of every meal, that "™* DICKINSON'S the Household Word in hundreds of happy homes Quality—Cleanliness—Accuracy—Dependability CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES SERVICE PRESS Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044, 228 West Broadway. Y: Salt Lake City Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Boys' School SHOES) A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language—a language understood by everybody. - Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likenese"—the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 Lumiere Studio 6 Main St., Salt Lake 680 East 2nd South Street Hyland 60 Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it? Dependable The Deseret Hews Progressive The Utah State National Bank Tie officers ure always glad to meet customers and discuss business plane with thera. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. CuHagtes W. Nisrey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. Mchiwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Atvim C. Strona, Assistant Cashier. Joun W.! Ames, Asst. Cashier. An Appropriate gift A Bound Volume of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1318, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bouad 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 lSc Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, City, Utah. THHERAUEER OU EE Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS. 3223.:. P. O. BOX 17/3 ~ SALT LAKE Ci7Y HYVYIN MAYT ALAYDOUS BAI TTe Was. 912 our = | A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service a 6 22. S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral Directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. | Was. 912 | S. M. TAYLOR, President A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas.