LESSON III Literature (Third Week in May) JOAQUIN MILLER Joaquin Miller may fittingly be styled the apostle of the unconventional. Like many Westerners of pioneer days, he was surely a "Jack of all trades." He was a child of nature, living close to the soil most of his life. He had a theory that people ought to live alone, consequently he built himself a little house and then built little houses for his wife and others at various places on his estate. He was not inclined to be fastidious about his dress, evidently looking upon that sort of thing as superfluous. A gentleman who has spent a good many years in Washington once told us that on an occasion when the copyright measure was being discussed before Congress, Mark Twain and Joaquin Miller appeared before the committee to discuss matters of interest relating to the bill. He said Mark Twain's appearance was immaculate, dressed as he was in a white linen suit with white oxfords and a white panama hat which emphasized the whiteness of his hair. Nothing, he said, could have been greater than the contrast in the appearance of these two men, for Miller looked like a denizen of the soil, coming as he did with the evidence of mud on his shoes and on his clothing. He is known widely as the "poet of the Sierras." He was born in the Wabash district, Indiana, on November 10, 1841. He was taken by his parents in 1850 to Oregon. The name that his parents gave him was Cincinnatus Heine, a name that apparently was not to his liking, for he discarded it for Joaquin, which was the name of a Mexican bandit, Joaquin Murietta, a man widely known and dreaded among the California miners, but admired and defended by Miller. In his early manhood he worked in the gold mines of California. In 1855 he volunteered for the expedition into Nicaragua led by Walker. For a number of years he found a home with the Indians of the Pacific Coast. In 1860 he began the study of law in the state of Oregon, but gave it up for a time to spend two years as an express messenger in Idaho. He then turned to journalism, editing for a time the Democratic Register, in Eugene, Oregon. It was felt that this paper was not sympathetic with the Union, consequently it was suppressed. Then he turned to the practice of law in Canyon City. This led him into a judgeship which he held until 1870, he acting as county judge of Grant county. Now he went East, and crossing to England, published in London his volume of poems, known as The Songs of the Sterras, which brought him considerable popularity, despite the fact that the same poems had failed to do that thing for him in his own country. Later he returned to the state of Washington where he again went into journalism for several years. In the year 1887 he went to Oakland where he made his home for a considerable length of time; however, the spirit of the roamer dominated him, and when the rush to the Klondike began he made his way there. During this period he was the New York Journal correspondent. Coming back to California he planned to do considerable writing, but did not live long enough to complete his plans. We do not know whether he was the first booster for California or not, but in any event he did his share. He called the state a "grander Greece," and insisted that it held the art atmosphere of the new world, and that the poets of that state were its prophets. "His habit was to write in bed until noon, then he appeared arrayed like a cowboy in flannel shirt, sombrero, high boots and corduroy trousers. "His place, where he entertained many celebrities, consisted of about ten acres over which were scattered a dozen small houses. One of these he occupied, one served for his wife and daughter, a third was used as a dining room, and others were placed at the disposal of visitors. It was his belief that no two people ought to live under the same roof. "When Yone Noguchi, the Japanese poet, came to live with him, he built a little addition to his own cottage and dedicated it to ' the visitor. It was his purpose to make his home, 'The Heights,' a refuge for feeble and indigent poets, and all about it he planted with his own hands thousands of pine and fir trees which form a huge cross visible from the valley miles away. "Miller's principal works are Songs of the Sunland; Life among the Modocs, wherein he describes the people of the Indian girl with whom he lived for many years; Songs of the Mexican Seas; and in prose the novel, The Danites in the Sierras, from which was taken his play The Danites, which enjoyed a long run in New York. Miller's poetry, as well as his prose, received favorable consideration, more on account of its brilliant and crude color than for any artistic excellence." On February 17, 1913, he passed away. It was his wish that he should be cremated and that the winds should scatter his ashes. For this purpose, in 1878, thirty-five years before his death, he built a funeral pyre of solid masonry, ten by ten and standing eight feet high. It is composed of six hundred twenty 
 huge granite boulders set in solid cement, laid with skilled hands, that it might outlast the ravages of time. It is swept by the winds that come from the Golden Gate. Here he had chosen to end his unique life and here he insisted that his exit from life be made in a way that was unusual in this country, at the time he built his funeral pyre, which served in the first place for the purpose for which he had it erected and now serves as a monument to the nature-loving poet of the Sierra Mountains. In 1903 President Theodore Roosevelt made a trip into the West. Of course, all cities on his route were eager to welcome him in a manner befitting the chief executive of the nation. President Roosevelt had expressed regret in an address delivered some time before his visit that the old fashioned family was becoming a thing of the past. Everywhere President Roosevelt was spoken of as one who decried race suicide. When he passed through Salt Lake City, the women of that city exhibited their babies as a token, no doubt, of the fact that it was still the style in Salt Lake to have families of considerable size. Joaquin Miller read the description of this event and as a result came a "Roundelay of Salt Lake" which was published in the San Francisco Bulletin. We include this poem, feeling that it will be very much appreciated by our readers. A ROUNDELAY OF SALT LAKE Beneath our forty stars is she The purest woman, sweetest, best, Who loves her spouse most ardently And rocks the cradle oftenest; Whose home is filled, whose heart is fed With halo of a baby's head. How pitiful that we must pay And pension man for killing man, While woman brings forth as she may, Unpaid, unpensioned, as she can; Gives life while man takes life away. Gives life, gives love because she must. How sad that we must pension, pay Our tallest, bravest and our best For killing brave men, east or west, Until our race is in the dust, As Greece is in the dust to-day; A tomb of glory gone away. I say the mothers of strong men, Strong men and merry men and tall, Must build, must man the Spartan wal! And keep it stoutly manned as when Greece won the world, nor wrecked at all, I say that she must man the wall. The wall of breasts, unshielded, bare, The wall to do, the wall to dare The wall of man or we must fall. I say that she, strong-limbed and fair, Deserves the pay, the pension, care. Of all brave, heartfelt welcomes found Where flowers strew the fragrant ground, And rainbow banners fret the air By city, hamlet, any where, In Midland, Southland, Northland, West, I reckon Utah's first and best. Not guns to greet the nation's chief, Not trumpets blaring to the sun, Not scars of glory and of grief, Not thrice told tales of battles fought, Not seas of flowers at his feet, Not gold to glitter and to greet, But Utah brought her babes, and brought Not one babe fretted or afraid, Not one that cried or wailed, not one. Oh, what to this the booming gun? Oh, what to this the loud parade? Proud troop to troop poured manifold In battle banners rampt with gold? - Just babies, babies, healthful, fair, From where the Wasatch lion leaps, From sunless snows, from desert deeps, Just babies, babies, everyhere; Just babes in arms, at mother's breast, And robust boys with girls at play, With pounding fists, too full to rest; As chubby, fat, as fair as they. Behold yon seas of alkali, Of sand, of salt, of fried up seas, Then shelter by these watered trees And humbly dare to question why These countless babes, these mothers, aye, The maid in love, the lad at play, All seem so gladsome bright and gay? Who tented here, who brake the sod, Subdued the Artemisia's strength With patient Ruth at ready call? Who faced the red man at arm's length And she beside him first to fall, And while he prayed the living God? Who gat such babes as never man Had looked upon since time began? And why? Because the loving sire Loved life and hated low desire;; He loved his babes, he loved his kind By desert waste of mountain wind; He watched his happy babes at play The while he gloried, glad as they. 
 This John the Baptist, naked, lean, Lorn, crying in the wilderness, This half fanatic, Luther, Huss, Whom we once mocked in his distress, Stands better than the best of us; Stands nearer Jesus, God, because He loves his babes, obeys his laws? Because his hands, his feet are clean; Because he loves his hearth, his home, And patient heaps the honeycomb. Behold yon million desert miles With scarce a plow, with scant a tree, Save where this desert garden smiles And robust babes leap merrily! Behold our boundless seas, as chare Of sails as yonder peaks are bare! Then give us babes, babes of your own, My meddling congressmen and men Of cloth, with great brains in the chin; Glad babes like these to prow the seas, Strong babes like these to plow or spin, And let this Bedouin alone. Yea, give us babes at home, where now Ye hide and house on every street Such things as 'twere a shame to meet? Glad babes to build and guide the prow,. Possess the isles, protect and bear The star-built banner here?or there! Till then, hands off, my Pharisee, And tend your own affairs, as they, Of Utah tend their own today. Lest from the mouths of babes ye be Condemned and damned eternally! Millers' love for nature is somewhat akin to the love of such men as Henry Thoreau and John Burrows. His introductory poems to "Kit Carson's Ride," and "With Walker in Nicaragua" breathe his love for nature as well as for the broad lands of America, as do others of his poems such as the "Californian," etc. Room! Room to turn round in, to breathe and be free, And to grow to be giant, to sail as at sea With the speed of the wind on a steed with his mane To the wind, without pathway or route or rein. Room! Room to be free where the white-bordered sea Blows a kiss to a brother as boundless as he; And to east and to west, to the north and the sun, Blue skies and brown grasses are welded as one, And the buffalo come like a cloud on the plain, Pouring on like the tide of a storm-driven main, And the lodge of the hunter to friend or to foe Offers rest; and unquestioned you come or you go. My plains of America! Seas of wild lands! From a land in the seas in a raiment of foam, That has reached to a stranger the welcome of home, I turn to you, lean to you, lift you my hands. Lines taken from With Walker in Nicaragua: Come to my sun land!. Come with me To the land I love; where the sun and sea Are wed forever: where palm and pine Are filled with singers; where tree and vine Are voiced with prophets! O come, and you Shall sing a song with the seas that swirl And kiss their hands to the cold white girl, To the maiden moon in her mantle of blue. His pictures of Western life are striking in such narrative verse as his "'Arizonian," "Kit Carson's Ride," etc. From these poems published under the general title of Songs of the Sierras we include a quotation from his "Arizonian": "So the sun climbs up, and on, and over, And days go out and the tides come in, And the pale moon rubs on the purple cover Till worn as thin and as bright as tin; But the ways are dark and the days are dreary, And dreams of youth are but dust in age, And the heart gets harden'd, and the hands grow weary Holding them up for their heritage. "And the strain'd heart-strings wear bare and brittle, And the fond hope dies when so long deferr'd; Then the fair hope lies in the heart interr'd, So stiff and cold in its coffin of lead. For your promise so great and your gain so little; For your promise so great of glory and gold, And gain so little that the hands grow cold; And for gold and glory you gain instead A fond heart sicken'd and a fair hope dead. "So I have said, and I say it over, And can prove it over and over again, That the four-footed beasts on the red-crown'd clover, The pied and horned beasts on the plain That lie down, rise up, and repose again, And do never take care or toil or spin, 
 Nor buy, nor build, nor gather in gold, Though the days go out and the tides come in, Are better than we by a thousand fold; For what is it all, in the words of fire, But a vexing of soul and a vain desire?" He visited the Burn's country while in Great Britain and wrote a poem which he calls "Burns and Byron." We include from this poem a few stanzas that relate to Burns: O Burns! Where bide? Where bide you now? Where are you in this night's full moon, Great master of the pen and plough? Might you not on your slanting beam Of moonlight, kneeling to the Doon, Descend once to this hallow'd stream? Sure yon stars yield enough of light For heaven to spare your face one night. O Burns! Another name for song, Another name for passion?pride; For love and poesy allied; For strangely blended right and wrong. I picture you as one who kneel'd A stranger at his own hearthstone; One knowing all, yet all unknown, One seeing all, yet all conceal'd; The fitful years you linger'd here, A lease of peril and of pain; And I am thankful yet again The gods did love you, ploughman! Peer! In all your own and other lands, I hear your touching songs of cheer; The peasant and the lordly peer Above your honor'd dust strike hands. A touch of tenderness is shown In this unselfish love of Ayr, And it is well, you earn'd it fair; For all unhelmeted, alone, You proved a ploughman's honest claim To battle in the lists of fame; You earn'd it as a warrior earns His laurels fighting for his land, And died?it was your right to go. O eloquence of silent woe! The Master leaning reach'd a hand, And whisper'd, "It is finish'd, Burns!" The most popular of Joaquin Miller's poems is Columbus, you will find it with illustrations in another part of the magazine. Questions and Problems 1. What do we mean when we say a poet is unconventional? 2. Do you discover any evidence of Miller's disposition to be unconventional in his "Roundelay of Salt Lake?" 3. Select from the poem a description of country near the lake. A. Tell what you think of it as a literary product. 4. Do you think the allusion to Ruth effective? 5. Select some lines that indicate the poets love for the free life of the West. 6. Where is the River Doon? 7. You might sing at this session "Out 'Where the West Begins" and "Ye Banks and Braes of Bonny Doon." If you have in mind a western song that you regard as better than "Out Where the West Begins," it will be quite appropriate to substitute it. GEMS FROM THE SCRIPTURES Gems from the Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants, is the title of a book that has reached our office. It has been compiled and published by William A. Morton. It contains a group of the most vital passages to be found in the Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants. A book of this sort is of very great value in our rapid life that permits of so little leisure. These passages of scripture are in reality gems, and every Latterday Saint is in a certain sense under obligation to its author for saving him or her time by putting these passages in a form that they may be readily found. The book as it purports to do, contains some of the choicest passages to be found in the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. There are over 100 gems from each book. It can not fail to be a very useful book.