EDITORIAL A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy Forever" MANY Relief Society women have in their possession treasured heirlooms that are the handiwork of a member of the family. These heirlooms, in many instances, represent the skills and crafts of pioneer ancestors and forebears who brought from the old country the domestic arts peculiar to the country from which they emigrated. The articles have grown in value as they have been handed down from generation to generation not only because of their age and beauty, but also because the knowledge of the skills required to produce these articles is gradually disappearing. This is a very unfortunate condition and there are many reasons for it. The chief reason, however, is one of neglect neglect on the part of the younger women to learn from the older women how to do this handwork. The knowledge of many skills and crafts has gone to the grave with women who would willingly have passed the knowledge on to others had the opportunity presented itself. Because this is a mechanized age and modern women lead very active lives, few have taken time to learn and use this precious inheritance from the past. It would be tragic to lose this part of our inheritance because the developing of these skills to produce handwork can enrich life in many ways. Page 170 The arts and crafts can beautify the home and bring pleasure to guests as well as to members of the family, This developing of skillful hands has a very hygienic effect on the mind and it also helps to produce a confident spirit. The Relief Society program presents two distinct opportunities for the encouragement, preservation, and teaching of the skills and crafts to women. The desire of the Relief Society General Board to encourage and preserve the skills of Mormon women was a vital factor in establishing the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. Many women throughout the Church again took an interest in handicraft and found a ready outlet for the work of their hands. Crafts that had been thought "old-fashioned" were revived, and the articles made have been much in demand. Many family incomes were thus bolstered and supplemented by the proceeds from the sale of handwork contributed to the Shop. The work meeting provides an ideal opportunity for teaching skills and crafts to those desirous of learning these arts. In every ward there are women, skillful in some phase of handicraft, who would be willing to teach others at a work meeting. EDITORIAL 171 The work meeting could be made more interesting and valuable to the women by teaching them old and new crochet and knitting stitches, how to et (almost a lost art), how to make a rag rug so that it will lie flat, and how to do the many interesting embroidery stitches and where to use them. Many women who would not be interested in the arts already mentioned still could not resist learning to do needle or petit point. The Relief Society will always endeavor to encourage and preserve the crafts and sills of Mormon women. G.R.G. New serial to Begin in April A new serial, "Faith Is a Heritage," by Christie Lund Coles, will begin in the April . The problems of a young widow and her adjustment to a changed social and economic environment are graphically presented. Through patience, hard work, and faith, Enid Drage solves her problems and rears her daughter to young womanhood. The author, a gifted daughter of C. N. and Cecelia Peterson Lund, was born in Salina, Utah. The family later moved to Mount Pleasant where Christie attended grade school. When the Lunds came to Salt Lake City, Christie completed her high school work, attended the University of Utah, and, in 1933, she was married to Elroy Coles. Their eleven-year-old daughter, Christie Caroline, is already writing poetry.
Stories and poems by Mrs. Coles have appeared in magazines and newspapers of national circulation, including the Saturday Evening Post, Good Housekeeping, the Washington (D.C.) Evening Star, The Saturday Review of Literature, Tomorrow, The New York Times, and many other publications. Her story "Victory Girl," published in a recent issue of the Rocky Mountain Review, has been rated by critics as one of the best short stories written by a Utah author. Mrs. Coles has published one volume of verse, Legacy, and has a second volume compiled.
Our readers are familiar with the stories and poems, many of them prize winners, which Mrs. Coles has contributed to the Magazine.