The Best Little Shrub Mabel Harmer LINE MORTENSEN arose A briskly from the luncheon table and started putting leftovers back in the refrigerator. "What's the rush, Mother?" asked her husband mildly, teaching for another of the fresh, sugar-coated doughnuts, "are Tidwells having another remnant sale?" "It's my day to go visiting teaching and Henry!" she exclaimed, stopping short in the midst of scraping the jelly dish, "that's at least five doughnuts! Is that what you call watching your waistline?" "You shouldn't tempt me," he sighed. "I'll start cutting down tomorrow I think. What was that song you were singing a while ago?" "Oh, something I heard at Church the other day, It goes like this: If you can't be a pine on the top of the hill Be a shrub in the valley, but be The best little shrub by the side of the rill Be a bush if you can't be a tree. That's all I can remember. I just thought it sort of fitted me. I've always been the shrub type never had any big positions in the Church like Emmaretta and some of the others. She's been put in the Relief Society stake presidency now, you know. I guess being a visiting teacher is about as high as I'll ever get." "Well, you're a pine around this house," said Henry gallantly, as he pushed back his chair, "and don't let any of those female women keep you talking until you're late for dinner." "Don't you ever think of anything but eating?" sighed Aline, taking off her kitchen apron and hanging it in the broom closet. "Sure. Right now I'm wondering if I have time fora ten minute snooze before I have to get back to work." "No. But take it anyway or you'll be worrying about it all afternoon. Shall I wear my navy dot this afternoon or the rose print? Isn't it nice to have two dresses so that you can choose between them?" "Wear the rose, of course," answered Henry, breaking his yawn in the middle. "If you're going to be a shrub you might as well be a rose shrub. And don't forget to come home. When you and that Janet Meeks get together " "Janet can't go today," said Aline, bustling off to the bedroom. "I have to go alone." "Well, don't forget to come home anyway. I get mighty lonesome while you're making up formulas for the Wilkins baby and reading to old Sister Ballard." "Why, Henry," chuckled Aline. "You know that I don't do that very often." "No, just once a month," he answered drowsily. HALF an hour Jater Aline, fresh as a June morning in her rose print and white linen hat, was hurrying down the street. "I do hope that Retta Hubbard has good news of her grandchild by now," she mused, "and that Ellen Crabtree has decided to try and get along with her THE BEST LITTLE SHRUB mother-in-law. Dear me, it's always something and it's so hard to decide just how much I can do without going too far." As she turned onto a neat walk, lined with brilliant petunias, she added, "I wish that everyone was as nicely settled as Daphne Rhoades here. A pretty new home, a fine young husband and a darling baby. I'll just peek in here for a minute and then hurry on." Daphne Rhoades sat staring across the luncheon table with unseeing eyes. The sound of a back door as Rod had slammed it shut barely registered on her consciousness. A door crashing was nothing when her whole world had just gone to smash. This was most certainly the end. There was no use trying to make a go of it any longer. She might just as well get out and find a job now while she was still young and had only one child to support. Mentally she rehearsed the bitter scene that she and Rod had just been through as if trying to convince herself that it had really happened. Within ten minutes after he had come home for lunch she had known that something was wrong when he failed to go in to the baby or mention the scones which were his special favorite. Pausing by his chair, she had laid down the plate with the piping hot scones and, tweaking his ear playfully, had said, "All right, out with it. Have you quarreled with the boss or lost that wallet I gave you for Christmas?" "Tt's worse than that," he had answered heavily. "Sit Daphne. I night just as well tell you first as last. Uncle Steve came in down, 193 this morning to see me. He's in an awful jam. Aunt Marty's just had an operation and he had to have three hundred dollars for the hospital. 3 told him how it was with us but " "Oh, Rod!" she cried. "You didn't give it to him? Not again!" "But Daphne," he pleaded, his eyes looking tragically old in his young face, "what else could I do? He had to have some money and there wasn't another soul he could turn to." "He'd have had to turn somewhere else if you hadn't given it to him," she answered stonily. "Everyone else comes first with you and it's your own family last. You know how badly I want this house. And we've worked so hard to make that down payment. When I think of how I've scrimped and saved one nickel at a time to get that three hundred dollars and then you hand it over without even asking me. Now Jones will sell it to someone else." The first of the hot tears came, to be followed by many more. "There wasn't any need of asking you," said Rod tonelessly. "He had to have it. And he'll make every effort to pay it back." "He may have the best intentions in the world but it will be the same story over again," she retorted. "Your father intended to pay his back too, when he got the money for that extra piece of land." "But he will, just give him time," interrupted Rod. "Two years is quite a bit of time," said Daphne icily. "And then your sister had to have the next bit to go to New York." "But Jed only had a week's furlough and maybe it's the last time 194 she'll ever see him. I couldn't refuse not my own sister," he pleaded. "Don't I know it?" she snapped. "And now here it is again. And not even one of your own family. Next you'll be handing out our savings to every acquaintance that comes along and happens to be in a tight pinch and I never will have a home of my own or any security. Well, I'm not going to stand for it. I'll get out and earn my own money and keep it where your relatives can't get their hand's on it." It was at this point that Rod, white-faced and shaken, had risen from the table, without ever having touched his lunch, and gone out of the house, and now Daphne, in her agitation, sat rocking the baby and giving vent to her angry thoughts and emotions by talking aloud to the baby. REALIZING, half unconsciously, that she would have to act quickly while her resolve was supported by anger, she set the baby down in his crib, brought out a couple of suitcases and started to pack. She was interrupted by the ringing of the doorbell, and hastily dabbing a bit of powder over the tell-tale streaks on her face, she picked up the baby and went to the door. She drew a quick sigh of relief when she saw that it was Sister Mortensen, the visiting teacher. She was such a pleasant, understanding soul. Just the sort of person to whom she could tell her troubles if she knew her a little better or if this were the sort of thing that she could tell to anyone. "Do come in," she said, opening the door, and while her guest was being seated she smoothed the baby's clothing and her own feelings at the same time. "I love to come here," said Sister Mortensen, sinking down into a large chair. "It's such a delightful room. I believe you said that you were thinking of buying the house." "Yes we were thinking of it," replied Daphne, a bit unsteadily. "But I'm afraid we've changed our minds " now "Oh, dear! I do hope that you aren't going to move away," exclaimed Aline. "I'd be terribly sorry to lose you from my district. It's such a pleasure to know a fine, normal young family like yours in these days of change and divorce." "Yes," agreed Daphne hesitantly, "there is more divorce now than in your day, but perhaps times are different perhaps there is more reason for it now." "Bosh, child, times are no different and people are no different. I guess there've been mighty few couples that it didn't take a lot of stamina and forgiveness and just plain intestinal fortitude to stick a marriage out what with _ taxes, measles and plumbing repairs always cropping up at the wrong time." "But not you, I'll bet," ventured Daphne with a smile. "You look so good-natured and even-tempered that I imagine an'. Earthquake wouldn't upset you." "Yet, even I ran home to my mother once," she returned with a chuckle. "That is, I went part way before I realized how silly I was behaving and turned back. And it was all on account of a sick dog that Henry brought home and was nursing on my best satin living room pillow. I still want to laugh when I THE BEST LITTLE SHRUB 
????think about It but I was Plenty upset be tearing his hair out jg I'm late at the tim getting home p njoyed visiting Daphne took off the baby's Shoes th you again," 80 that he could le his toes lux "Thank YOu, it's be nice having unously d, lowered s, you Call," Teturned D as she asked, "But there are times don't Walked with her guest + door you think, when 4 Couple js Justified The Nute j Closed she In S parating?" Tushed back to the b om and put "Per 4PS, On very rare Occasions MMy in his cx with such violence ut, my 800dness, wha 4 Woman, 0 that he Sent fo Protesting niek er, will n she lifteg her h If-fille Suit. Sve up for what IS called 'freedom,' Case to the cedg Chest and Started to all the love and heartach JOYS and unpack, J Only a Matter of sorrows, that g0 into the aking of a minutes before } T dresses Were once full life The person ho hasn't h d more hanging the closet and other 4 chance tg Petience some of the things rety d their Toper Cartaches has Missed g Wwonderf,] Places in th dresser drawers Chance for growth." "It's a 800d thing that I didn't 'Tm sure Oure right," Said have time to Pack your stuff, uster," Daphne, quietly pattin Jimmy's 9. She said h th dorably Plump little Je ere | L s Pushed the Other Suitcase out of sight, ith that # complished, ME ssage,"" sai Aline, sud. D denly diving j t n floor or dig u i 4 patch of the aCK yard before you to Nd, not the giver Nor the do anything diculous nd don't sift, but need and joy person orget," she continy Who is to 5 the Tecipient of one's love and good ull The baby gurgled happily and then went back ini e; Pink toes. Daphne Walked aphne, dropping her head to the dressing table and brushed her baby's So that Visitor Wouldn't soft... ) Gainsborough Painting, and Henry Pretends to * Re & y 196 Aline glanced hastily at her watch as she came down the walk from the away generous Pieces, Don't that's the celery or lettuce kind of an afternoon did you have? , What Anything new on the beat?" "On the distri e commented, han Ng Over the Paring knife.