[Vol42 | February 1955 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Openshaw]
[A Shadowy Form Passed the Window Rose A. Openshaw]
A  Shadowy  Form  Passed 
the  Window 
Rose  A.  Openshaw 
IRENE  Clifford  felt  more  keenly  She  buried  her  face  in  the  blooms, 
the  loneliness  of  her  oversized  drinking  in  their  intoxicating  per- 
house,  where  she  seemed  to  rat-  fume,  grateful  that  she  lived  in  Ari- 
tle  around  like  a  forsaken  pea  in  a  zona  where  myriads  of  their  prince- 
lonely  and  enormous  pod,  as  she  ly  varieties  bloomed  even  in  coldest 
realized  that  not  one  of  her  chil-  winter,  and  where  their  fragrance 
dren  had  this  year  remembered  her  seemed  to  rush  out  eagerly  to  meet 
birthday.  her. 
For  weeks  in  ad\'ance,  on  other  She  picked  up  the  vase  of  roses 
such  occasions,  they  would  be  in-  and  carried  it  inside  to  glorify  the 
quiring,  "What  shall  we  get  you,  kitchen.  But  there  she  shook  her 
Mother?  What  do  you  need  or  head  despairingly,  for  she  found  that 
want?"  or,  "Now,  don't  make  any  the  bouquet  only  tended  to  empha- 
date  for  the  twenty-third,  the  fam-  size  the  shabbiness  of  the  room, 
ily  will  all  be  there  to  celebrate!"  Everything  in  it  had  outlived  its  use- 
And  all  was  anticipation,  suspense,  fulness.  She  recalled  the  embarrass- 
and  excitement.  But  this  year  no  ment  she  had  experienced  the  Sun- 
one  had  even  remembered  or  men-  day  before  when  some  of  her  guests 
tioned  it.  had  followed  her  into  the  kitchen 
They're  so  busy  living  their  own  as  she  prepared  refreshments.     She 
lives  they  don't  have  time  to  drop  hadn't  anticipated  this  when  she  in- 
in  or  think  of  me,  she  reflected  sad-  vited  them  for  pie  after  church. 
ly.     Then,    exasperated    at    having  She  should  at  least  have  new  li- 
given  way  to  self-pity,  she  laid  the  noleum,    she    reflected,    but    when 
shears  she  had  used  for  clipping  the  could  she  ever  find  time  or  strength 
long  rose  stems,  hard  on  the  garden  to   uproot   the  present  dilapidated 
bench.  one,  scraping  it  bit  by  bit  from  the 
I  hope  I'll  never  grow  into  one  floor?  And  what  assurance  had  she 
of  those  depressing  creatures  who  that  the  furnishings  would  not  look 
give  up  when  their  brood  flies,  in-  even  worse  by  contrast?  The  walls 
stead  of  making  a  new  life  for  them-  were  crying  for  paint,  and  that  shab- 
selves,  she  mused,  her  lips  pressed  by  old  stove!  That  rusty  water- 
firmly  together.  heater!  Oh,  everything!  And  no  way 
She  picked  up  the  roses  she  had  to  replenish  anything  at  all. 
just   clipped,   arranging   them   care-  She    smiled    ruefully    at    the    in- 
fully    in    her    basket-shaped    vase,  congruousness  of  it,  and  glancing  in 
soothed   by   their   beauty   and    the  the  mirror  as  she  did  so,  noticed 
way    the    pink    and    cream    petals  again  how  like  a  skein  of  silver  yarn 
blended  into  the  yellow-green  tones  her  once  dark  hair  was  becoming, 
of  the  vase.  and  the  wrinkles  were  trying  for  a 
Page  101
