[Vol42 | February 1955 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Relief Society and the General Church Welfare Program | Author: Henry D. Moyle]
Relief  Society  and  the  General 
Church  Welfare  Program 
Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
(Address  Delivered  at  the  Annual  General  Relief  Soeiety  Conference, 
September  29,  1954) 
And  behold,  I  tell  you  these  things  that  ye  may  learn  wisdom;  that  ye  may  learn 
that  when  ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow  beings  ye  are  only  in  the  service  of  your  God 
(Mosiah  2:17). 
Security  Plan  will  help  us  immeasurably  to 
fulfill  this  law.  The  plan  has  wrought  a 
great  work.  It  is  a  work  that  must  be 
done  if  we  are  to  be  what  we  are  pretend- 
ing to  be — brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Gos- 
pel. 
It  is  my  testimony  to  you  that  President 
Grant  was  inspired  to  begin  this  work  and 
this  plan,  and  it  stands  on  an  equality 
with  the  Relief  Society,  the  Primary,  the 
Sunday  School  and  the  M.I.A.  And  fur- 
thermore, just  as  these  organizations  have 
grown  and  developed  with  the  experience 
and  needs  of  the  people,  and  so  are  not 
what  they  were  at  the  beginning,  so  will 
this  plan  grow  and  develop,  and  if  the 
time  comes  when  we  do  not  need  it,  we 
will  not  use  it,  but  until  that  time  comes, 
this  will  be  a  permanent  thing. 
WE  
start  out  with  the  premise 
that  welfare  work  is  service 
to  our  fellow  men.  It  is 
the  means  by  which  we  can  fulfill 
in  a  large  measure  the  second  great 
commandment  which  in  importance 
is  like  unto  the  first.  By  satisfying 
our  obligation  to  others,  we  aid  in 
bringing  to  pass  one  of  the  great 
purposes  of  the  gospel  restored  in 
these  latter  days. 
Elder  James  L.  Barker  wrote  the 
following  passage  in  his  Priesthood 
manual  for  this  present  year: 
The  gospel  had  been  so  contaminated 
that  religion  was  coming  to  be  not  the 
"doing  of  the  will,"  but  what  can  I  get 
for  myself  with  the  least  effort.  Salvation 
for  many  was  not  eternal  progression  and 
service  to  one's  neighbor,  but  escaping  the 
fires  of  hell,  by  means  of  the  rites  of  the 
Church.  The  idea.  What  can  I  do  to 
help  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  seems  to 
have  been  largely  lost,  crowded  out  by 
the  thought.  Can  I  continue  in  my  more 
or  less  sinful  life  unchanged  and  then,  by 
reason  of  a  baptism  postponed  as  long  as 
possible,  die  with  all  sins  forgiven?  (Bark- 
er, James  L.:  The  Divine  Church,  volume 
3>  page  7)- 
The  First  Presidency,  in  com- 
menting on  the  future  of  the  Wel- 
fare Plan,  said: 
God's  law  has  always  been  "Thou  shalt 
love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  The  Church 
Page  76 
This  world  is  moving  into  a  new  era. 
I  know  of  no  responsible  authority  who 
challenges  the  forecast  that  within  the 
next  few  years  we  shall,  in  the  normal 
course,  suffer  a  depression  far  more  serious, 
affecting  intimately  far  greater  numbers  of 
people,  than  the  one  we  are  now  finish- 
ing (Stewart,  Walker,  and  McGavin, 
Priesthood  and  Church  Welfare,  page 
297). 
Nor  was  this  doctrine  new  in  the 
Church  in  1936  when  the  First 
Presidency  announced  the  plan 
which  we  now  call  the  Church  Wel- 
fare. In  line  with  this  plan,  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  said: 
It  has  always  been  a  cardinal  teaching 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  a  religion 

RELIEF  SOCIETY  AND  THE  GENERAL  CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 
77 
that  has  not  the  power  to  save  people 
temporally  and  make  them  prosperous  and 
happy  here  cannot  be  depended  upon  to 
save  them  spiritually  and  to  exalt  them  in 
the  life  to  come  (Bowen,  Albert  E.,  The 
Chuich  Welfare  Phn,  page  36). 
In  the  words  of  President  Brig- 
ham  Young: 
I  have  Zion  in  my  view  constantly.  We 
are  not  going  to  wait  for  angels,  or  for 
Enoch  and  his  company  to  come  and  build 
up  Zion,  but  we  are  going  to  build  it.  We 
will  raise  our  wheat,  build  our  houses, 
fence  our  farms,  plant  our  vineyards  and 
orchards,  and  produce  everything  that  will 
make  our  bodies  comfortable  and  happy, 
and  in  this  manner  we  intend  to  build 
up  Zion  on  the  earth  and  purify  it  and
