[Vol42 | February 1955 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Oo ome Literature of England Lesson 48—Matthew Arnold (1822-1888) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 726-748; 527-561) For Tuesday, May 17, 1955 Objective: to English literature. One of the wisest men of our day, Judge Learned Hand, has not presumed to define liberty, but he has stated his own faith regarding it: The spirit of liberty is the spirit which is not too sure that it is right; the spirit To weigh and consider Matthew Arnold's considerable contribution of liberty is the spirit which seeks to understand the minds of other men and women; the spirit of liberty is the spirit which weighs their interests alongside its own wthout bias.... Only in such a spirit are we ready to be taught; to be enriched; to 132 grow; and we should approach Matthew Arnold in this spirit, as we should approach literatures of all times and peoples. Matthew Arnold is not everyone's favorite author. 'Throughout his life he maintained a personal aloofness which was both conscious and deliberate; to maintain this same interval between himself and_ later gencrations he directed that no biography be written, and he destroyed all papers save a few letters and his published works: it was in these that he wanted to live. Richly his wish has been fulfilled. Whatever phase of Victorian life we may choose to consider, there he stands confronting us, too considerable to be ignored, too penetrating to be silenced. Some have found Arnold to be the prophet of despair; for others he championed excellence and truth. All agree to his largeness and sincerity and depth. In his monumental work in the Lnglish schools, in his poetry, and in his critical writings, there is a grand unity. Firm in his: belief "that "conduct is three-fourths of life," Arnold, more nearly than any of his contemporaries, exemplified in his own life the classical virtues he so loved: "to think clearly, to feel nobly, and to delineate firmly." If the mature Arnold spent his energies fighting to uphold the best, he was but fulfilling the pattern established by his father, 'Thomas Arnold, the famous headmaster at Rugby school, and the most dominant teacher and personal influence young Arnold knew. 'Thomas believed completely in the virtues of a truly classical, liberal education. This strong belief in the need for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 Y A Perry Piciure MATTHEW ARNOLD 1822-1888 traditional standards was bequeathed in full measure upon his son Matthew. After leaving Rugby, young "Matt" attended Oxford, graduating in 1844. He taught for a time, then for two years he lived in the realm of politics and power as secretary to Lord Lansdowne. But Arnold was not content amid these values, and furthermore he was in love and long engaged. In need of permanent income, he accepted, when, in 1847, Lord Lansdowne secured him a position as inspector of schools. For the next forty years he traveled England and the continent, examining students for scholastic proficiency and constantly making recommendations which would give to the great English middle classes a thorough, free education compa- LESSON DEPARTMENT rable in quality to schooling obtainable in Germany and France. When he retired he was highly esteemed by teachers and administrators alike. As a student Arnold had felt the great power of poetry, and had dedcated his life to it by keeping himself distant from his fellow students, since he felt their values would not help him in his poetic ambitions. After he became inspector he continued writing poetry, and at the beginning of each year he meticulously noted the books he intended to read. As he read each one in a few moments snatched in bumping railway cars, stations, and miserable hotels, he carefully crossed its title off. He copied from his readings the great and rewarding thoughts and systematically contemplated these throughout his life. In 1857 he was honored by being appointed to the chair of poetry at Oxford, where he lectured three or four times yearly for the next decade, the first in his position to give the lectures in English rather than in Latin. After his fortieth year he wrote little poetry, devoting most of his energies to criticism, not only in literary matters, but in politics, religion, and economics. His marriage was evidently a happy one. When he retired from his school position in 1886 at age sixty-six, his pension was not adequate, so, at the suggestion of Henry James and other friends, he made a lecture tour of America. He made money and was well received, at the same time enjoying himself immensely. His entire life was vigorous. At age sixty-five, still following his lifelong liking for exercise, he went skating; at sixty-six he continued to 133 go swimming. But his health began to fail after his retirement, and he died suddenly in 1888 at the pier while welcoming his daughter and grandchildren home from an American port. Arnold's Creed In one of the great periods of dynamic change in western history, Matthew Arnold refused to believe that a value is valuable merely because it is new. 'True to his classical training, he found more of the best in the culture of ancient Greece than he did in his contemporary world. Imagine, if you will, Matthew Arnold circulating a questionnaire in his official capacity as your superintendent of schools. It is concerned with the TV habits of high school students. Suppose he were to receive the following answers (as did an enquiring teacher in a 1953 survey): "I'd rather sit and look than sit and exercise my brain." "Mr. Arnold, I suffer when I read." "A masterpiece is something you don't understand." "Who wants to read? It makes you feel sissified."' Here, in chronic form, is our modern intensification of the symptoms Arnold feared. Like the legions of courageous souls who founded both our own nation and our own Church, Matthew Arnold looked about him and found almost everywhere absent his concept of the Ideal. 'The Real as he saw it was not encouraging: smugness, hypocrisy, self-tighteousness; worship of success, wealth, energy, things; a rampant individuality so uninformed, headstrong, and extreme as to have little concern for quality and excellence. To such a generation Arnold's 134 constant message was, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is within you." Arnold knew full well that men cannot be driven either to Perfection or Heaven, but the passion of his life, both in his private actions as in his writings, was his belief in the values of education. Both within himself and his age Arnold acknowledged a great decline in faith. The most tragic result of this loss, Arnold felt, was that it made Man something less than complete—he became disunifled, both within himself and within the society which produced him. For Arnold was profoundly convinced that man is not saved alone, but within the society or culture of which he is a part. The vision of the Ideal can come only from an inward excellence— the greatest virtue in life, but the most difficult to earn. "As the Greek poet long ago said, 'excellence dwells among rocks hardly accessible, and a man must almost wear his heart out before he can reach her'"' (text, p. 558, lines 44- 47). But if, through education, man attains this excellence, or culture, or rightness, then the awareness of perfection lies directly ahead. And for him perfection is the goal: Not a having and a resting but a growing and a becoming, is the character of perfection as culture conceives it... And individual perfection is impossible so long as the rest of mankind is not perfected along with us. When such lofty goals are presented throughout a lifetime, in words Gente for clarity, intensity, honesty, and sincerity, we can then begin to realize the great influence of Arnold upon the Victorian Age. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 Arnold's Poetry Arnold's poetry is the direct opposite of 'I'ennyson's: rarely rich, it is always true. Sometimes, however, the truth it reveals is Arnold's own sense of being a fragment—of being a solitary part of a larger whole never to be realized, either within his own life or in his writings. His poems reveal his sense of loss; they also record his intense search for calm, for peace, for insight and intelligence in an age of turmoil and uncertainty. Because he probes searchingly into the depths and mysteries of existence, and does this with clarity and power, his poems can bring each of us to a richer awareness of self, and of one's own immediate life. Let us look briefly at four of his poems. 'Their stanza form is no more involved than the metrical pattern; their tone is quiet and subdued, even gray and melancholy, but a tone perfectly controlled, and uniform throughout. In his "Quiet Work" (text, page 726) Arnold praises the two duties of working constantly and at the same time tranquilly. Here is Arnold's distrust of the superficial and greedy values of his world, and his affirmation of the rare values of patience and unpublicized examination of life's problems. One of his most famous poems is "The Scholar-Gypsy" (text, pp. 734-739), which exemplifies the classical restraint and disciplined, polished lines of Arnold. He tells of a scholar who, more than two hundred years ago, left his books to join a band of gypsies. In escaping with them into nature and a serene singleness of purpose, he found a life filled with peace, meaning, and LESSON DEPARTMENT unity. 'The immediate loveliness of Arnold's nature scenes recalls his own happy days at Oxford when nature sustained him, and man was good. Lovingly, almost jealously, Arnold recalls the many haunts where this scholar-gypsy spent his idyllic days: At some lone homestead in the Cumner hills, Where at her open door the housewife darns, Thou hast been seen, or hanging on a gate To watch the threshers in the mossy barns. (text, p. 736, lines 101-104) He envies the unity and peace of such a life, whereas our lives are worn out by change, and shocks, and a thousand schemes. The gypsy ls: Free from the sick fatigue, the languid doubt, Which much to have tried, in much been baffled, brings. O life unlike to ours! [We] Who fluctuate idly without term or scope, Of whom each strives nor knows for what he strives, And each half lives a hundred different lives; Who wait like thee, but not, lke thee, in hope. (text, p. 737, lines 164-170) He then warns the gypsy to flee. Before this strange disease of modern life, With its sick hurry, its divided aims, Its head o'ertaxed, its palsied hearts. (text, p. 738, lines 203-205) This same beautiful, reminiscent tone of longing for peace amid _ nature's charms is continued and intensified in ""Thyrsis" (text, pp. 739- 743) one of the great English elegies, written in remembrance of his schoolmate and friend, Arthur Clough. Likewise "Rugby Chapel" (text, pp. 745-747) recalls happy 135 schooldays, but it is dedicated to his father, Thomas Arnold. Written fifteen years after his death, the poem radiates the buoyant warmth of his father's personality, his intense love for the best throughout all time, his great power to "fill up the gaps in our files," to encourage lesser men to go on to the City of God: And through thee I believe In the noble and great who are gone. Yes! I believe that there lived Others like thee in the past. Souls tempered with fire, Fervent, heroic, and good, Helpers and friends of mankind. (text, p. 746, lines 145 ff.) Rarely has a more noble monument to a father been erected and immortalized by a son. Arnold's most famous poem is "Dover Beach," since it contains both a flawless statement of his poetic art and the moving revelation of Arnold's own loneliness and his need for human warmth in an age devoid of faith, an age where nevertheless men fight and die ignorant of reason or need. Ah, love, let us be true To one another! For the world, which seems To lie before us like a land of dreams, So various, so beautiful, so new, Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain; And we are here as on a darkling plain Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight, Where ignorant armies clash by night. (text, p. 744, lines 29-37) Arnold's Essays In 1880, when he was fifty-seven, Amold published "The Study of Poetry" (text, page 552) as an introduction to an anthology. This essay 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 contains Arnold's_ definition of poetry (page 552), his touchstone method of determining whether poetry is of the highest quality (Pp. 553-557), his definition of a classic (page 554), and the difference between poetry and history. Poetry he defines, in the words of Wordsworth, as "the breath and finer spirit of all knowledge." 'The only real estimate of poetry must be free of the personal estimate, in which the individual's own tastes and _prejudices prevent him from seeing the enduring poetic values, as well as the historical estimate, or poetry which has become great merely because of its historical place. In evaluating poetry, then, Arnold suggests it be compared to passages which have proved themselves through time, and cites several passages or "touchstones" of high poetic value (page 557). Only by comparing newer poetry with these lines of classical power and purity can true poetry be identified. While many of their more important ideas have already been mentioned in this lesson, the two essays in our text, "The Function of Criticism at the Present Time" (text, pp. 529-544) and "Culture and Anarchy" (text, pp. 544-551) will prove rewarding to those who really accept Arnold's concept of excellence and therefore read him at first hand. While criticism is lower than creation, it "is the true function of man" (text, page 530). Instead of believing in the values of the contemporary bustle, Arnold agrees with Goethe: "To act ls so easy; to think is so hard" (text, page 559). Action based on thought is the way to salvation, but this preliminary critical thinking, because it is hard, will never become popular. After finding very little that is best in England, Arnold gives his version of happiness:... To have the sense of creative activity is the great happiness and the great proof of being alive, and it is not denied to criticism to have it; but then criticism must be sincere, simple, flexible, ardent, ever widening its knowledge. The selection in our text from "Culture and Anarchy" (pp.