[Vol42 | February 1955 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science: The Constitution of the United States, Amendments Sixteen Through Twenty-Two Albert R. Bowen 138]
CJrom    I  i ear  an 
a  df^c 
ar 
Just  a  word  of  appreciation  this  morn- 
ing for  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  which 
comes  to  us  each  month  with  its  wonder- 
ful message,  here  in  the  Banning  Branch 
in  sunny  Cahfornia.  We  are  thankful  for 
the  Magazine.  Its  precious  contents  are  a 
blessing  to  women.  The  courses  in  the- 
ology, literature,  and  social  science  are  in- 
I  spiring  adventures  in  the  fields  of  spirit- 
uality, literature,  and  government,  and 
help  fill  in  the  gaps  in  the  early  teaching 
and  training  of  many  a  life.  These  courses 
in  these  studies  are  equal  to  college  cours- 
es. The  stories  in  the  Magazine  are  beau- 
tiful, inspirational,  and  restful  when  the 
mind  is  weary.  The  poetry  is  delightful, 
too.  We  welcome  and  enjoy  this  good 
book. 
— Romania  B.  Benson 
Beaumont,  California 
Thank  you  for  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine. I  wait  more  or  less  patiently  from 
month  to  month,  and  when  it  comes  I 
put  everything  else  aside  until  I  have  read 
it  from  cover  to  cover,  I  have  been  ''ex- 
posed" to  this  wonderful  Magazine  all  of 
my  life.  My  mother  took  it  all  her  mar- 
ried life.  I  can  remember  as  I  grew  older 
and  loved  to  read  I  would  go  down  our 
old  cellar  and  get  all  of  mother's  old 
Relief  Society  Magazines  and  spend  many 
a  happy  hour  reading  them.  Now  I  read 
with  great  interest  the  Woman's  Sphere 
page  by  Ramona  W.  Cannon,  and  espe- 
cially the  birthday  congratulations. 
— Mrs.  Agnes  Young 
Idaho  Falls,  Idaho 
Congratulations  to  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.  for  the  happy  laugh  he  gave  us 
in  the  December  number  of  our  Magazine 
(page  811).  When  we  look  at  the  happi- 
ness on  his  face  we  cannot  help  but  feel 
that  all  is  well  ....  President  Budge's 
eldest  daughter,  eighty-five  years  old,  and 
I  look  at  this  picture  in  the  morning  and 
it  gives  us  an  uplift.  Also,  the  smiles  of 
President  McKay  and  President  Richards 
are  very  sweet  and  helpful  to  us  all.  Each 
Magazine  seems  the  very  best. 
— Lettie  B.  H.  Rich 
Logan,  Utah 
I  received  my  first  two  copies  of  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine  three  days  ago  as 
a  gift  from  my  mother.  These  Magazines 
were  very  welcome,  as  they  are  the  only 
contact  I  have  had  with  the  Church  for 
some  time.  There  are  two  branches  here 
on  the  island,  but  neither  is  close  enough 
for  us  to  attend  regularly,  I  especially 
enjoy  the  religious  fiction,  as  interesting, 
moral  fiction  is  hard  to  come  by  on  an 
army  post, 
— Joyce  Nelson 
Camp  Lasey,  Puerto  Rico 
I  have  had  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
by  a  California  cousin  as  a  Christmas  gift 
for  several  years.  Although  I  am  a  non- 
member  of  the  Church,  I  would  not  want 
to  be  without  this  fine  publication.  My 
mother  used  to  read  it  before  she  died, 
and  called  it  a  ''pick-up"  magazine,  be- 
cause the  articles  were  short  and  could  be 
finished  before  she  had  to  go  on  to  other 
duties. 
— Frances  Strong  Helman 
Indiana,  Pennsylvania 
I  read  several  times  the  stories,  lessons, 
and  poems,  and  since  I  especially  enjoy 
cooking  and  homemaking,  I  refer  again 
and  again  to  the  recipe  sections  and  handi- 
craft articles.  I  find  the  Magazine  perfect 
in  both  size  and  content.  It  can  be  held 
easily  in  one  hand,  and  the  articles  can 
usually  be  read  at  one  sitting.  I  keep  the 
back  issues  close  by  in  the  bookcase,  so 
that  I  can  reread  them,  and  often  I  find 
an  article  or  poem  that  seems  to  carry 
just  the  message  I  need  when  I  am  tired 
or  blue.  The  Magazine  is  an  inspiration 
and  a  guide  to  the  young  mothers  of  the 
Church. 
— Mrs.  Janell  Arrington 
Twin  Falls,  Idaho 
Each  new  issue  of  the  Magazine  brings 
me  added  wealth  of  knowledge  as  well 
as  spiritual  uplift.  I  enjoy  each  lesson  and 
feel  that  I  am  greatly  benefited  by  the 
courses  of  study  as  outlined  and  pre- 
sented. 
— LeNore  J.  Parker 
Layton,  Utah 
Page  74