President The Relief Society Magazine LESSONS FOR MARCH vol. 32 NO. 12 DECEMBER, 1945 LESSONS FOR MARCH

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Anna B. Hart
Florence J. Madsen
Blanche B. Stoddard
Mary G. Judd
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Evon W. Peterson
Luella N. Adams
Priscilla L. Evans
Leone G. Layton
Leone O. Jacobs
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 32 DECEMBER 1945 No. 12

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Address to the Members of the Relief Society President George Albert Smith 715
Elder Matthew Cowley Elder Thomas E. Towler 722
General Relief Society Conference 724
Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford 725
Homemaking Skills Developed Through the Work-Meeting Program Velma N. Simonsen 729
Present-day Visiting Teaching Opportunities Leone G. Layton 730
The Gospel in the Relief Society Educational Program Elder Howard R. Driggs 732
Relief Society's Expanding Welfare Service Elder Henry D. Moyle 735
Relief Society Leadership President Amy Brown Lyman 739
Relief Society Membership President Louise Y. Robison 740
"Feed My Lambs" Bishop LeGrand Richards 742
Wartime Activities of Our European Relief Society Counselor Gertrude R. Garff 745
Dream For a Relief Society Building Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 748
A Relief Society Building to Be Erected President Belle S. Spafford 751
Success to a Relief Society Building Bishop Marvin O. Ashton 753
Relief Society Wheat Project Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin 754
Volunteer Price Control Service 765

FICTION
And For Eternity Chapter 7 Olive Woolley Burt 761

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 756
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 757
Editorial: 116th Semi-Annual Church Conference Belle S. Spafford 758
Christmas in the Bible Vesta P. Crawford 760
Work Meeting Two Dolls From One Pair of Socks 766

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: The Missionary System Broadened Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 767
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Charity Rejoiceth in the Truth Dr. Lowell L. Bennion 771
Literature: Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Fiction Dr. Howard R. Driggs 772
Literature: Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Fiction Dr. Howard R. Driggs 773
Morals in Marriage and Family Relationships Dr. Harold T. Christensen 777

POETRY
"Good Will Toward Men 1945" Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard 713
Christmas at North-Head Light Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 723
Christmas Wish Helen Kimball Orgill 759
Dishes Alice Morrey Bailey 783
Peace Christie Lund Coles 784

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1. Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914. At the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000


THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 32, NO. 12 DECEMBER 1945 GOOD WILL TOWARD MEN-1945 Eva Willes Wangsgaard I Now Christmas lights may burn without restraint, For only friendly wings disturb the skies; And quiet snow clouds under wind's complaint Explode in crystal flak before our eyes. The moonlight silvering dark avenues Will bring no fears to make night overlong; Rime-jeweled firs will flash prismatic hues And turn our hearts to joy, our tongues to song. The fortunate who stand, warm lip to lip, May well rejoice; but let us not forget The alien mound, the unreturning ship. And pause in prayer for strength to meet our debt. Never before in cords of peace we've won Have joy and sadness been so finely spun. II Our hearts must all be purged of anger now; For he who was a child in Nazareth, As bright with life as is a fruited bough. Was born to rid the earth of hate and death. We have a world to heal, much to forgive. And much to learn of nations brought so near By war's rough hand that now no peoples live Remote as neighbors lived on our frontier. By love of neighbor we may prove our worth; The angels' chorus had a double theme? "Good will toward men" as well as 'peace on earth." Oh, let no bitterness obstruct our dream! This Christmas time, snow-clean and winter-pearled, Let lasting peace link men around the world. The Cover: "Madonna of the Chair" by Raphael. (Copyright, 1926, by Eugene A. Perry. Border decoration by Evan Jensen., SERMON ON THE MOUNT From a painting by Hoffman, Copyright, 1919, by Eugene A. Ferry. Address to the Members of the Relief Society PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1945 
THIS is a very unusual sight and also an unusual experience. No other organization in the world of women can present such a picture as you have here today?this famous building filled with the daughters of our Heavenly Father. To have this meeting in the Tabernacle, with a great organ that is known all over the world, and to enjoy the great chorus of Singing Mothers make this an event that we will all remember.
I congratulate the women's Relief Society that was begun by the Prophet Joseph Smith upon being the only organization in all the world that was organized by a Prophet of God to represent the women of the Church. While you may feel that at one time you were a long way from the center of so-called civilization, the fact is that today you are the center of civilization.
Relief Society Building
This is an occasion that I enjoy just as much as you do. I have been waiting for the last four or five years to see this large group assemble in general conference. If you are going to have a house large enough to hold yourselves from now on, you may as well plan to build it. I am delighted to have had some thinking of erecting such a structure.
Don't you think it would be appropriate for you women of the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church that bears his name by divine authority, to have a home of your own into which you could invite the spirit of the Lord when you hold your meetings? I realize you have been disappointed in the past; you thought you had a home once before, but it turned out to be the Presiding Bishop's office also. But now your prospect seems to be better, and as you think about it and plan for it, you will be very happy. I don't care how fine it is, how large it is, or how beautiful it is; it will not be better than you deserve. There isn't anything too good for you as long as you keep the commandments of the Lord. You know he said, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you."
I am thinking today of the desirability of a house that will be the headquarters for the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. You may be sure that if you do your part, the Lord will do his. I am sure it will be a satisfaction to some of you who do not have homes of your own to know that there is a house in which to have an interest where you can meet and have enjoyment in the company of your sisters. It will be a gratifying experience for the daughters of Zion to feel that they have been able to provide themselves a suitable home, and that day is not far away. Until that time comes, I am happy that there is a house as fine as this that is our Father's house, in which we can all meet and know that his spirit is present.
The Influence of Relief Society
The seven or eight thousand women here today are but a small part of your membership. It is a large congregation to be sure, but do you realize that the daughters of Zion are the mothers of a group twelve times as large as this that has been serving their country in the armed forces of the United States? The mothers of the nation gave their sons to America. It was the mothers of the Church who offered what was dearer than life itself to them. He said to their sons, "It is your duty under the Constitution of our land and the recommendations of the Church with which we are identified, to go and help preserve the liberty of the world." So today, as large as this audience is, the group that is coming back to you will be twelve times as large, every one of them a representative of the daughters and the mothers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and they have made a wonderful record for you. The letters that have come home, I am sure, have filled your hearts with joy. Satisfaction has filled your soul when the commendation of superior officers has been extended to many of those that belong to you. And now, in the merciful providence of our Father, the war is finished, and by the shipload your
sons will be returning home; and what a wonderful thing it is to know that most of those sons can return to their mothers after having jeopardized their lives that we all might enjoy the blessings so generously bestowed upon us by a loving Heavenly Father.
I feel that I am standing on sacred ground, for in this pulpit have appeared some of the great men and women of the world, those who were anxious to do what the Lord desired them to do. Here they bore testimony of the divine mission of our Savior Jesus Christ. I was born across the street from this Tabernacle. So I have seen the beautiful buildings erected here, including the Temple, completed and occupied. We will soon celebrate the one-hundredth anniversary of the coming of the pioneers. The first company came here with all they possessed in covered wagons drawn by the animals that they could secure, oxen that could work their way across the plains, subsisting on wild grass enroute. See what God has wrought in that hundred years! From the most undesirable wilderness you would imagine, this valley has grown to appear as the garden of the Lord.
I am thinking now of President Brigham Young and his associates with that first company. If they could look down and see the daughters of the people assembled today in peace and thanksgiving and gratitude, how happy they would be. And I imagine they can do that very thing. You have such a diversity of opportunities with the faith that you have. You possess all that the world has that is really essential to eternal happiness, plus the gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord. So I am thinking today how grateful we ought to be. How thankful I am that a little over seventy-five years ago a mother offered her life that the man who is talking to you might be born. When I think of what the women in this Church have passed through in order that the sons and daughters of God might come into the world, I realize that today you have been blessed in so many ways. You do not have the hardships of pioneering your forebears had, and today it is recognized that you are as blessed, and I may say more blessed than any other women in all the world. You were the first women to have the franchise; the first women to have a voice in the work of a church. It was God that gave it to you and it came as a result of revelation to a Prophet of the Lord. Since that time, think what benefits the women of this world have enjoyed. Not only you belonging to the Church have enjoyed the blessing of equality, but when the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for the emancipation of womankind, it was turned for all the world, and from generation to generation the number of women who can enjoy the blessings of religious liberty and civil liberty has been increasing.
Singing Mothers Church-wide
I thought as I listened to this lovely choir here, you never heard of a choir of Singing Mothers until you heard of it in the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I was down in the South Seas a few years ago, in New Zealand, Australia, Samoa, Tonga and Hawaii, and in each of these countries I have listened and
here, there were choruses of Singing Mothers. I could not understand the words they sang, except I assumed that the words were suited to the music that we are accustomed to hearing in such songs as "Come, Come Ye Saints."
It was delightful to me to know that even though they didn't have comfortable seats to sit on like you folks have, they made no complaints. They often said that as hard as these seats are in the Tabernacle, they are about the most comfortable benches anybody ever sat on. I remember seeing a fine congregation of nearly two thousand natives in Apia, British Samoa. They were in two houses, one that had been built for worship, and then a school building adjoining that could be used in connection with the house of worship. These buildings had large doors like this Tabernacle. Then there was a bowery on one side, making three congregations in one. Instead of having comfortable benches, everybody sat on the floor. It was interesting to see them come in. Men and women would walk in, one carrying a roll of matting made of bark or leaves. They would open it out on the floor and a group would sit down on it; then another would come in with another mat and that would be rolled out and another group would sit on that. When the house was filled and everybody comfortably situated, they would sit and sing, keeping time to the music sometimes by the motion of their hands and bodies. It was a lovely picture, one I had never seen any place before.
I remember the last night we spent at mission headquarters before leaving for home. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 After we were in bed, the last thing we could hear was a group singing in one of the nearby native homes. And the next morning when we awoke, they were singing religious songs, not the nonsense we are amazed with over the radio, but they were singing praises and their voices were tuneful. I thought, if you dark-skinned folk can be as happy as you are with the few opportunities that are yours, then how joyful our lives should be in such a country as we have. I have thought of it many times since. The first group of Relief Society sisters that President Rufus K. Hardy and I saw when we arrived at Apia in the Samoan Islands numbered about two hundred. All of them had cream-colored dresses, not white dresses, but they were all dressed in cream-colored dresses made by their own hands. When they learned that we were going to have a big conference there, the women went out in the woods and gathered the bark of the hypo trees. Then they placed this bark on a large log and pounded it with a hardwood club into great sheets that looked like blotting paper. They were able to make this material as large as they wanted by adding to it. When the sheets were large enough, with such knives or scissors as they had, they cut out their dresses, and with the thread that they could make or purchase they sewed their clothing by hand. The only other adornment they had was a necklace that they called ula which was made of tissue paper or some other available material. They were excellent singers; their voices were tuneful and they kept perfect time. I saw another group of your Relief Society women among the Maori people. In the particular case I have in mind, there were three thousand people in the congregation. That was during their Hui tau, or annual conference. They had a chorus of Singing Mothers. They were strong and vigorous; there wasn't a sickly looking woman in the crowd, and how they could sing! I had a picture of sixty of them, and there was not one among that group of sixty women that wasn't the mother of twelve or more children. Children, Treasures in Heaven One of the thoughts that I desire to impress on Relief Society mothers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to teach your sons and daughters that the blessing of God that you may have with you forever will be children?families of children. You will not have any pride in owning automobiles and other material possessions such as we spend so much of our time to acquire, but on the other side of the veil in the celestial kingdom, the Relief Society mother who has brought a family of children into the world and kept them developing until they have graduated to be servants of our Heavenly Father will have treasures in heaven that will outmeasure and outvalue all the treasures of the earth. I would like to pass that on to you. I would also like to suggest to you that we do not have to live like the world does. If we live like the world does, we will become like the world, and when we go to the other side, we will have the reward that the world has. The Lord intended we should "come out of the world." ADDRESS TO MEMBERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 719 He intended that his sons and daughters should have an opportunity to grow up under his inspiration, not under the influence of the adversary. So your forebears and mine, many of them, came across the sea or from other parts of America and sought first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. They settled in this marvelous part of the world that has been the safest place to be found anywhere. You are in the part of the world that has not suffered for any of the necessities of life. Here your children can be educated and have all the opportunities and privileges and blessings in this great land of America. The Lord called this land "choice above all other lands," and when you think of what we enjoy, it is true. But all his children in other lands are precious to him, and it is our duty and our privilege to so measure our facilities and our advantages that we will want to divide with all the children of God the blessings that we enjoy. These Singing Mothers are not just for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints here in the valleys of the mountains; they are for the islands of the sea and the nations of the earth, and as daughters of our Heavenly Father, they have honored him and magnified him in their songs of praise and thanksgiving. Now, I rejoice with you today that you can meet again in the great Tabernacle where peace and quiet and the inspiration of the Lord can be enjoyed. Isn't it lovely to meet together here! This is a beautiful picture. I congratulate you with all my heart that in your first meeting after the close of the war, you can fill the Tabernacle to overflowing. Do you realize you have opened this Tabernacle to the first general conference we have had for years? Only the priesthood officers have been invited during recent conferences. Now the sky is the limit, and I am not so sure but by the time we have two or three more general conferences here, we may have visitors from Australia, New Zealand, Africa, China, Japan, etc. They may leave their homes in airplanes and in about twenty-four hours be right here. It is marvelous what the Lord has given to us in this age. Tribute to Mothers Today I thank him with all my heart for our blessings. I desire to impress on you daughters of God, you mothers of men, that if this world is to endure, you must keep the faith. If this world is to be happy, you will have to set the pace for that happiness. The adversary of all righteousness and of all happiness has had his innings for a long time in the world. He has betrayed many of the daughters of God into bad habits, and the result will be that their children will suffer from bad habits. If we are to maintain our physical strength and mental power and spiritual joy, it will have to be on the Lord's terms, and he has told us what those terms are. My dear sisters, remember what a power you have with these boys and girls who are growing up. You may have lovely homes and you may have a lot of lovely possessions, but the most desirable thing you have will be the companionship of the sons and daughters of God, in many cases, your own. What a blessing the Lord has given to you. We have had a great war and millions of lives have been lost. On the stand here is a copy of the Book of Mormon, the history of the ancestors of the American Indian, sometimes referred to as the American volume of scripture. I find here in this book a tribute to motherhood, such as I have found in no other publication that I have ever read.
You remember the story of the two thousand sons of Helaman. When Lehi came to the promised land, because this was the promised land to them, his family divided; part of them served the Lord and part of them did not. Those who did not become the wild red men of the country, called Lamanites. Those who tried to keep the commandments of the Lord did very well for some time, but by and by the warfare between the two groups was such that it looked as if the Lamanites would overrun the country and take all the property of their white brothers, the Nephites. Hundreds of the Lamanites had joined the Church and when they did so, they made a covenant with the Lord that if he would accept them into the Church they would not again take up arms against their fellows.
After a few years the wars became so serious it looked as if the Lamanites might prevail. Then the Lamanites who had joined the Church said, "Here, we cannot stand by and let you protect us; we are going out to fight for ourselves." Then one of the leaders of the Church said, "You have made a covenant with the Lord (I would like you sisters today to remember that suggestion)?you have made a covenant with the Lord. You cannot
betray the Lord or fail to keep your covenants. You cannot go out to fight and we will have to go on protecting you." Then they discovered that more than two thousand young men had grown up since that covenant had been made who had never made the covenant that they would not fight. So they were marshalled and sent out to battle. As a result, they, together with the Nephites that were defending that particular part of the country, succeeded in overthrowing the Lamanite army. These boys were referred to by Helaman as his "sons" and he called them his "striplings," for they were youngsters. He tells of the battles they fought with such valor and fearlessness that they frightened the men of the enemy and drove them away. In the last terrible battle that was fought, the ground was covered with dead and dying and Helaman hastened to have his boys gathered from among them. When they were brought in and were counted, it was found that every one had been wounded, two hundred had fainted from the loss of blood, but all were alive. Helaman asked how this could be. And then these youths explained to him that their mothers had taught them to believe in God. They trained them in the faith, and had brought them up to know there was a power greater than that of man. When he asked them how they could have such faith, they answered simply, "We do not doubt our mothers knew it." The faith of those mothers had been planted in the hearts of the sons, and there was nothing that could stop them as long as they were doing what they knew God wanted them to do Teach the Children Righteousness
So I say to you, my sisters, the wonderful gift God has given you of a home life in civilization and the opportunities and blessings of the gospel in this dispensation, should inspire you as mothers to train your children from infancy so that as they develop and become exposed to the dangers of life, they will believe that you have known what was best for them, and they, too, will be able to say, when they have made a success of life, that it was because they have followed your teachings and your fine example; and when people will ask them how they could do it, they will say of you, "We did what our mothers wanted us to do, and we knew that they knew best." That is your privilege. Teach your daughters modesty and virtue; teach your sons to be faithful and good, wholesome and true; teach all that you come in contact with to keep their bodies sacred as the tabernacles of their spirits. If we can keep that in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints and go on in the future as we have done in the past, all the world will yet praise Zion and her people. And the Relief Society organization that will have functioned all the way in blessing mankind will not only be praised by men and women everywhere, but they will receive their blessing from the Lord. If you do your part, this glorious welcome will await you when life's labors are complete. "Well done, good and faithful child, you have been faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things; enter into the joy of your Lord."
Riches of Relief Society
I pray that the prospect of a headquarters of your own may soon be realized, not for a hundred thousand members only, but many more. See to it that you will not only have a hundred thousand women or two hundred thousand women enrolled, but see that every one in this organization will in every way be worthy to be called daughters of the Lord. That is your privilege and you should exercise your influence for righteousness always. If it were not for the influence and virtue of womankind, this world would travel the downward road mighty fast. You must work to save it. The men have never succeeded without your help, and so, set your own homes in order. Honor your fathers and mothers, respect and love your husbands and your children, love one another.
After a while, when the summons shall reach us and we look back upon the experiences of a rich, wellspent life, many of you will be able to say, "Because of my membership in the organization that God set up through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the organization known as the Relief Society, I have had many riches added to my life that I could never have known in any other way."
I pray that the Lord will bless your Presidency, that they may go forward under his inspiration directing the General Board that works with them, and all these stake presidencies and boards and ward presidencies, and every member. Keep in mind always that these bodies are sacred to our Heavenly Father, and like Daniel of old, when they wanted him to take into his body the (Concluded on page 783) THE MATTHEW COWLEY FAMILY Elder Matthew Cowley and Elva Taylor Cowley, daughter, Jewell Cowley Sheffield, and adopted son, Duncan Meha (Toni) Cowley. Elder Matthew Cowley Elder Thomas E. Towler President of Wells Stake SIX months before Elder Mathew Cowley left New Zealand, one of the native saints predicted that he would be chosen an apostle. His patriarchal blessing states: ?You shall come an ambassador of Christ to the uttermost bounds of the earth. Page 722 MATTHEW COWLEY 723Your understanding shall be great and your wisdom reach to heaven." Elder Cowley is eminently trained and qualified for such an exalted position. He was born of goodly parents and lived the gospel in his youth. In his early manhood he married a beautiful and talented young lady, Elva Taylor, and they have labored together to make the world a better place in which to live. Thirteen years of Elder Cowley's life have been devoted to missionary work in New Zealand. He labored there during both of the world wars. His experiences have taught him one of the great lessons of life, namely, 'There are two sides to every story." As a result, he is blessed with a sympathetic understanding, is kind and patient, honest and fair, does not excuse failings in men, but is ever anxious to assist them to overcome their failings. His nature is one of absolute loyalty and he does not like destructive criticism. Because of his genuine humility, he has never sought after any position in the Church. He is altruistic, liberal, and generous. Before leaving New Zealand, he literally gave the coat off his back. A faithful saint admired the topcoat he was wearing, and in a Christ-like spirit, he took it off and gave it to him. Blessed with a sense of wit and humor, coupled with a pleasing personality, has won for him a host of friends. Because of his great work among the Maori people and the thorough understanding he has of them. Elder Cowley is admired and respected by government officials of New Zealand, and has been given important assignments by them. Possibly his greatest achievement is his spiritual and intellectual strength by which he has become a powerful preacher of righteousness. As he travels throughout the Church, he will warm the hearts of the saints and stimulate them to righteous living. The leaders and saints of Wells Stake are appreciative of the life and labors of Elder Cowley at home and abroad. They are firmly convinced that his call came by inspiration and that he will be a tower of strength in the great work of the Lord which lies ahead for him. CHRISTMAS AT NORTH-HEAD LIGHT Beatrice Knowlton Ekman The rock-bound lighthouse fronts the sea, Below, the breakers roar In angry combat endlessly Where waves on cliff rocks pour. All day the gulls wing overhead, Fog hides the outflung space Where sailors' hearts are filled with dread Watching the dark sea's face.... The ocean wind blown in to shore, The cries of birds in flight, Will carol round the lighthouse door To mark the Christmas night. General Relief Society Conference October 3 and 4, 1945 A General Relief Society Conference was held on October 3 and 4, 1945, at Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Belle S. Spafford presiding. The following sessions were held: An officers' meeting on Wednesday afternoon, October 3, in the Assembly Hall on Temple Square for general, mission and stake officers; A reception to honor retiring President Amy Brown Lyman and the retired members of her General Board, for stake and mission officers and specially invited guests on Wednesday night, October 3, in the Lafayette Ballroom of the Hotel Utah; Morning and afternoon general sessions for Relief Society workers and the general public on Thursday, October 4, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle at 10 a. M. And 2 p. M. This general Relief Society conference, the first held since October 1941, because of World War II, had a record-breaking attendance. The audience on Thursday afternoon completely filled the Tabernacle. A spirit of enthusiasm pervaded by a spirit of love and unity in Relief Society work was manifest throughout the sessions. A feature of the conference was the launching, with the approval of the First Presidency, of the erection of a central Relief Society building to be erected in Salt Lake City, detailed plans for which will be publicized later. The final session was blessed by the presence of President George Al-Page 724 bert Smith who delivered a moving address for the guidance of the mothers of the Church and all members of Relief Society. A number of other members of the General Church Authorities and members of the General Church Welfare Committee were in attendance at the Thursday sessions as well as specially invited guests. The music for the conference was under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen, member of the General Board. A solo 'The Voice in the Wilderness" was beautifully sung by Aline Peterson; and Lily Priestly, at the organ, rendered lovely selections for the prelude and postlude numbers at the Wednesday afternoon meeting. At the Thursday sessions, under the direction of Sister Madsen, with Brother Alexander Schreiner at the Tabernacle organ, a chorus of Singing Mothers from the sixteen stakes comprising the Salt Lake Region rendered beautiful and inspiring numbers. This same group was asked by the First Presidency to furnish the special music for the first two sessions of the 116th Semiannual General Conference of the Church held the following day, on Friday, October 5. The opening and closing prayers at the three sessions were offered by present and former Relief Society mission presidents. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 725 There were representatives from 146 stakes and 18 missions of the Church. On Monday morning, October 8, in the Relief Society General Board room in the Bishop's Building, a meeting was held by the Relief Society General Presidency and members of the General Board Mission Lesson Committee with the mission Relief Society presidents of 17 missions. The address delivered at the Thursday afternoon session in the Tabernacle by President George Albert Smith is printed in full as the feature article of this issue of the Magazine. Digests of the other talks given at the various sessions follow in the order of their delivery. OFFICERS' MEETING, OCTOBER 3, 1945 Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford WE welcome you all and we are grateful for your presence, your safe journey, your devotion to the work that makes you put forth the effort to be here, for the sacrifices of your families. I am sure that our hearts are filled to overflowing today in gratitude to our Heavenly Father for the privilege of this conference. We are deeply grateful for the cessation of hostilities that has made this conference possible. For four long years we have been bowed down by the strains, anxieties, and sorrows of war. Even though we know that many of the sorrows and problems of war are still with us, we acknowledge the goodness of the Lord at this time. Our last general Relief Society conference was held in October 1941, and we were enthusiastically looking forward to the observance of our Relief Society centennial in connection with the coming April conference. Interest and enthusiasm were running high, only to be cut short by war. Relief Society Activities, 1941-1944 At the close of 1941 we had an enrollment of 115,000. Then the advent of the war and the accompanying employment of women, together with the many war interests of women, affected in some measure our enrollment. Under these conditions we feel our membership has held up remarkably well. We have today an enrollment of over 102,000. Average attendance has suffered somewhat more than enrollment. The average attendance for the three-year war period, December 1941 to December 1944, is 30.41 per cent of the enrolled membership. The number of visits to homes by visiting teachers is perhaps the most discouraging of all aspects of our work. Figures show a steady decline through the war years, with 126,900 fewer visits being made last year than in 1941. The Relief Society Magazine has given us pronounced concern during the war years. Government restrictions on paper, increased printing and engraving costs, labor problems, both at the printing offices and in our own department, have caused us many troubled hours. Moreover, the Magazine has never seemed of greater importance to us, being the major medium through which the General Board has been able to reach local officers and the Relief Society membership. The circulation has increased from 55,500 in 1941 to 73, 620 as of July 1945. This splendid increase in circulation has been the main factor in enabling us to maintain the $1 subscription price. We are now pleased to announce to you that government paper restrictions are lifted and beginning with the November issue the Magazine will add eight pages. The Magazine has more than current value. It has reference and historical value, therefore we suggest that you keep in your ward and stake libraries files of The Relief Society Magazine.
Excellent standards of class work have been maintained throughout the Society. Recommended courses of study have been followed in most of the missions as well as in the stakes and these have been generally well received by Relief Society members.
Figures for the past four years on phases of compassionate service which can be tabulated are very interesting. For each of the four years, visits to the sick and homebound did not vary a great deal. During the period, December 1941 to December 1944, an average of 132,000 visits were made annually to the sick and homebound, and an average of 19,000 days' care was given the sick annually by our Relief Society sisters. Services rendered by Relief Society in time of death averaged 600 monthly.
Relief Society women have wholeheartedly supported the war effort. Extensive service has been given the Red Cross sewing and other programs. Relief Society women have also been active in salvage and food conservation programs. During the past four years tremendous amounts of regular Relief Society sewing have been done; ward conferences and special activities, such as Relief Society socials and anniversary programs, have gone successfully forward. Hundreds of meetings in addition to the regular weekly Relief Society meetings have been held, with encouraging gains being made in the number of ward preparation meetings held.
Changes in Leadership
Great changes have been made in our leadership. During the past four years, out of the present 151 stakes, 132 have new stake Relief Society leadership, and twenty-eight missions have new Relief Society mission presidents.
A change in general Relief Society leadership occurred April 6, 1945, with the release by the First Presidency of Sister Amy Brown Lyman and her General Board. The same day, Belle S. Spafford was sustained as the new General President of Relief Society.
New Name for Relief Society
We begin the work of this new era with a new name being officially adopted for the Society. By action of the General Board of Relief Society, June 27, 1945, the name of the Society was officially changed from "National Woman's Relief
Society" to "Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints."
Restoration of Union Meetings
This is also a day of restoration for Relief Society. Union meetings have been restored to us allowing stake officers to once more function normally. Visits to stakes by General Board members have once more been authorized by the First Presidency.
We urge that in the conduct of union meetings every possible effort be made to make them as beneficial to ward workers as possible. Let your preparation for these meetings be thorough and keep in mind the two great purposes of union meetings; namely, to aid wards toward fine performance in all phases of Relief Society work and to assist in developing ward leadership. Stake leaders are cautioned to do nothing that will hinder the ward in standing on its own feet.
New Recommendations
The General Board recommends that except when a stake counselor is needed in the department over which she has general supervision, or unless she feels a special need to conduct a department for ward counselors, that she attend the department conducted for presidents. Ward counselors should also attend the presidents' department unless a special department is being conducted for them. Secretaries, when not in departments specially planned for them, should also attend the presidents' department. We feel that tion when executive officers have an
opportunity to meet together in a consideration of Relief Society work.
The General Board also recommends that a work meeting leader be appointed on stake boards and also in wards, to work under the general supervision of the counselor who is the work meeting program except directly responsible for all phases of the work meeting program except Church Welfare assignments which shall continue to be the direct responsibility of the counselor who is the work director. The stake work meeting leader shall be responsible for a department at union meeting to be attended by ward work-meeting leaders. Wards will plan the work-meeting day for themselves as heretofore, but the union meeting department should stimulate, encourage, suggest programs and aid wards in maintaining high standards of work-meeting activities.
Submittal of Annual Reports
Stake secretaries are requested to begin immediately to work toward getting annual reports into the General Office on time. Ward reports should reach stake secretaries not later than January 5. Stake secretaries should in turn submit their reports to the General Office not later than January 20. Sisters, we plead with you to see that these dates are met. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945
Stake officers are advised to remind ward officers that ward Relief Society conference programs should be planned with the purposes of the conference clearly in mind, namely, to report organization activities and accomplishments, to acquaint the ward membership with the program and needs of the Society, and to emphasize the blessings of membership in the organization. The ward conference is the Relief Society meeting from which Relief Society should derive benefits, and, with very few exceptions, it accomplishes its purposes best when presented by Relief Society women. The main goal of the meeting should not be merely to present a brilliant speaker or an entertaining program in order that a large crowd will be in attendance, but rather to present in a fresh, interesting, and appealing way a program that truly represents Relief Society, and that draws a large attendance because it does interestingly represent us. The work of Relief Society is appealing and dramatic in itself, and, if properly presented, is full of interest for ward members. Officers should not feel in making ward conference assignments that it is necessary to go outside the ward or stake for talent. The conference program provides excellent opportunity to use and develop local talent and to recognize capable, faithful Relief Society women. Every ward and stake has an abundance of excellent talent, if leaders will but search it out and make use of it. Support of No-Liquor-Tobacco Committees Suggestions will come from the General Board during the coming year in support of the efforts of the General No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee to abolish the use of alcohol and tobacco. We trust that stakes and wards will give full support to any programs that are released or projects that are initiated either by the Board or your local committees. Emphasis on Four Phases of Work We have been advised by our Church leaders to give renewed emphasis to four phases of our work: First, the ultimate objective of all that we do is to build testimonies of the truth of the restored gospel, and to teach women to apply the saving principles of the gospel in their every-day lives. Second, as Relief Society leaders, we must seek earnestly to spiritualize and strengthen Latter-day Saint homes. Third, we are counseled to take cognizance of our part in the Welfare Program of the Church. Love-inspired welfare service has been a fundamental part of our work since the very beginning of our existence as a Society. Under the impetus of the Church Welfare Plan, bishops are enabled to more fully discharge their part in relation to needy Church members in their wards, and Relief Society sisters, relieved of the necessity of maintaining a charity fund and serving as a source of supply, may more fully devote themselves to phases of the work that are in accord with their natures and ability. A fourth duty to which our attention has been called is that of bringing actively into Relief Society greater numbers of Latter-day Saint women, particularly young women. Every Latter-day Saint woman is entitled to the blessings of membership in this Society. Encouragement of Visiting Teaching We urge that special efforts be put forth to strengthen the visiting teacher program during the coming months. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 729 There is a need for organized effort to develop hopes and attitudes and sentiments, favorable outlook and points of view, the spirit of mutual purpose and co-operation; to implant religious conviction with its sustaining spiritual strength. Today's world offers such excellent opportunity for the intimate human service which our visiting teachers can render. May the Lord bless you to keep alive your sense of values, your sense of proportion, your faith that as you work unselfishly in this great organization, you are genuinely helping the women of this Church, you are helping to advance the work of the Lord. Homemaking Skills Developed Through the Work-Meeting Program Velma N. Simonsen Member Relief Society General Board WHEN the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, he stated that the purpose of the organization was "to care for the needy, and to save souls." Through the wisdom of our leaders, a day has been provided whereby both of these aims may be served. This is the work meeting. This day is comparable in its cultural value to other prescribed courses, and may require more thorough preparation than any of the other courses to make it one of the best departments in the Society. It seems that there are two real objectives for each work meeting-first, to plan a very vital program, and second, to get the women to participate in that program. Sisters, the day is yours. Plan it thoroughly and wisely, and don't be guilty of planning something that will just "take up the time." The greatest strength of the Relief Society lies in the fact that direction and guidance are given it by the priesthood of God. Today, the* leaders have charged us to strengthen the home and to teach our members, especially the younger sisters, homemaking skills. Work meeting is our day of opportunity to fulfill that charge. It must be a day of training for homemaking skills. It is said that a man may build a house, but only a woman can build a home. Are mass production and machine-made articles which lack beauty and individuality taking us far afield, and are we losing not only the ability to create, but also the appreciation of fine workmanship? If so, work meeting is our opportunity to develop again these skills and appreciations. We must use this day to instil in our sisters a love for beauty and an ability to create it. It is an opportunity to encourage the incompetent home-maker to participate! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 I remember a period in my life when, as a teen-age girl, I was careless in the upkeep of my room. My mother conceived the plan of twice a week cleaning everything from the top of my dresser and putting a fine, clean, white dresser scarf on it. It wasn't very long before I saw to it that the rest of the room was as clean as the dresser scarf. And so it is with the woman who has never learned homemaking skills. Let her participate in beauty in Relief Society work meeting and it will carry over into her home. The woman who says, '1 do not wish to learn" creates another problem. An effort must be made to find some activity which will especially appeal to her. Getting people to attend work meetings for the first time may call for a personal contact. The most successful work days are those that meet the needs of the women best, whether it be in making a better loaf of bread or sewing a finer seam. The degree of success you achieve depends upon your attitude toward work meeting and upon your prayerful and thoughtful efforts. It has been said: A task without a vision is drudgery, A vision without a task is a dream. But a task with a vision is VICTORY. Relief Society has given us the task; Relief Society has given us the vision. May the Lord bless us with Victory. Present-Day Visiting Teaching Opportunities Leone G. Layton Member Relief Society General Board HISTORY is never made in the abstract. Always it is something someone has done. History is never a solid mass of achievement; it is a mosaic of countless parts, each one perfected by the sacrificial devotion of some particular person" (Dr. Waldemar W. Argrow, Sunshine Magazine, July 1945). The history of Relief Society has been determined by the ideals, the plans, and the hopes of those who have gone before us. The program of visiting teaching is based upon an ideal, the ideal of the brotherhood of man, that man is indeed his brother's keeper and that love of man is a virtue all possess. The plan of those who instigated this program was that the sisters of the Church should be concerned with the welfare of the group in which they lived, that those who were sorrowing should be comforted, those who were hungry should be fed, and those who were naked should be clothed. It was not a new plan. One who had lived on earth many years ago had pointed the way, had put the principle to practice in his own life. The Prophet Joseph, in instructing the sisters, called attention to this, saying, "Said Jesus, ?Ye shall do the work, which ye see me do.' GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 731 ?Photograph courtesy of Deseret News. Centerpiece on Table at Reception Honoring Former President Amy Brown Lyman on the Evening of October 3, 1945, at Hotel Utah. Left to right: Lillie J. Roberts, teacher's topic leader and Gertrude J. Iverson, theology leader, Bear River Stake Relief Society Board; Mary Smith Ellsworth, President California Mission Relief Societies; Clarice G. Sloan, former Relief Society President of Portland Stake; Ethel B. Andrew, former General Board member, now Nampa Stake Relief Society President; Caroline T. Eccles, literature leader, East Mill Creek Stake Board. These Are the grand key-words for the Society to act upon." Today we have this mighty sisterhood. We have on the rolls of Relief Society 29,027 visiting teachers who call in the homes of the Church members. It has been a wonderful plan, it is indeed an ideal plan, and, because it is based on an ideal, it must be measured by that ideal. Percentages may measure accurately the number of visits made in homes, but the good those visits accomplish, the heart-warming, soul-stirring good they do can never be read from figures. Yet, sisters, we hear even from stake presidents, "Are we still going to do visiting teaching? We just can't get women to go. They say they are not wanted in the homes, and anyway there is no need to go now we no longer receive contributions." Are there no longer sorrowing people? Are there no longer those who hunger spiritually? Is there no longer a need for human love and interest among our Relief Society sisters? Too few visiting teachers are "called to the work." Rather, they are pleaded with after Relief Society or at any time they happen to be met. "Oh, Sister Jones, won't you help us out with visiting teaching? We just can't get anyone to go! We know just how hard it is to get away, but if you'll just help us out for a little while...." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945Does this give a sister a vision of the opportunity being presented to her? Attitude means everything in the accomplishment of work. No one who does not have within herself a love of Relief Society and of visiting teaching can do this as it should be done. We must love the sisters we visit with the pure love of the gospel. We must desire with all our hearts to serve them. Never has there been a greater opportunity for doing the Master's work than there is in the world today.
We have the greatest organization ever put on earth for women, but it is of no avail unless we use it. The
organization is here, the opportunities for doing good are here. The leadership which determines the use made of that organization and those opportunities is here today. Your attitude, your vision, your understanding and love of the work determine the fulfillment of the ideal enunciated to us. You here today hold in your keeping the future of the visiting teaching program. See that you guard it well.
Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day (Doc. and Cov. 4:2).
GENERAL SESSION, MORNING OF OCTOBER 4, 1945
The Gospel in the Relief Society Educational Program
Elder Howard R. Driggs
I HAVE never faced in all my life so many good and beautiful women. It is an honor and privilege to stand before you, and I humbly pray to God to help me to say those things that will lift us all to higher levels as I am lifted this morning by this occasion. The keynote of what I should like to say is to be found in a song we all love to sing, "Thanks for our teachers who labor with care, that we in the light of the gospel may shine." No other word occurs more frequently or is echoed more beautifully throughout all our scriptures than the word "light." The Savior said, "I am the light and the life," and he advised us to let our
light so shine that a man seeing our good deeds would glorify God, who is in heaven.
If the teacher has one purpose above another, it is to radiate light. It is to illumine truth; it is to lead souls out of the darkness into the light. I think no more beautiful story has ever come to me as to the real work of the teacher than that found in the life story of Helen Keller. As a little girl, Helen Keller enjoyed one brief period of sunshine, of flowers, of bird song, of home joys. Then, suddenly, through dread illness, she was plunged, by being bereft of sight and hearing, into what she called "a prison house of darkness." GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 733 As she came back to consciousness out of that disease, she said she was beating the bars of that physical prison, trying to get back into the light. Yet in that darkness, she might have remained, "had not she come, my teacher, who was to set my spirit free/' Anna Suhi-van, a devoted, understanding, loving teacher, took that little human soul and led her back into the sunshine. She placed in her hands, literally, the key of language to open the prison house. She brought her forth into glorious womanhood, where she could make her contribution magnificently to the world. Every one of US is a teacher, either by example or precept, or both. Every human being is teaching other human beings. It is true that officers and teachers of great organizations such as this are called especially to the privilege. That doesn't take away the duty and the opportunity of everyone of us to lead souls into the light. This is especially true of gospel teachers. Our constant effort should be to make the world brighter, not only today but for all time. We should ever remember this, that so far as the teaching, of the gospel is concerned, the spirit of the gospel is "caught," rather than "taught." One cannot impart the spirit of the gospel by mere words or by a recital of facts. What is in you radiates from you. The Apostle Paul called our attention to this very picturesquely when he said, "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal." We carry the spirit of the gospel with us, or we do not. If we carry it with us, those around us catch the light of our illumination. It matters not whether we represent an arc light or one of less candle power, our business is to light up the dark corners where we happen to be. Dear old Dr. Maeser, with whom I was privileged to associate in the long ago years, said this once to a class of teachers in training: "You can't teach even arithmetic most successfully unless you radiate something of the spirit of the gospel." It is a challenging assertion, but it is true. Oh, of course there are teachers who seem to radiate little or none of the spirit of the gospel, but they would do better with that spirit, and they are always excelled by those teachers who combine intellect and spirituality. NOW, to your educational program. The Relief Society, in its marvelous way, has spread before its members and its officers and all the world, a well-rounded program touching the various phases of basic life. Every lesson that you teach goes to its highest level only when it is taught with a testimony of the gospel in your hearts. Even in your work meetings, where, with nimble fingers, sisters gather around a quilt and begin to sew, and generally to talk, if the spirit of the gospel is not in that spontaneous expression and in the hearts of those who are doing the work, there is something of vital worth lacking. Many a lesson in gospel service is lastingly impressed by those who scatter sunshine and uplifting thoughts while they work. Apply the same truth to your lessons in Church history. In this study one should keep the mind on the final outcomes and not be led into things of little consequence.
When I was a boy I was brought into this temple yard. On an excursion from Pleasant Grove and West Jordan, some of us school children were privileged to come here and see the temple which was being built. It wasn't up to the square. We were permitted to climb the winding stairs to the top and look over the city. One thing I remember was that this yard was littered with stones, with all sorts of tools. We don't see those things now; we see the glorious temple with its spires pointing heavenward.
Every man's life and every woman's life in the building is likely to have some litter about it, but by what do we judge the life? by the outcome. Think of this when you teach lessons in history. Let the gospel light guide this great work.
In the lessons on literature recently given we started out with that found in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. The central aim of all was to bring you back to the Bible, to make you love that book of books. These courses were not planned for one year. One cannot get out the Bible in eight or sixteen lessons. They were planned to lay a firm foundation for reading and rereading and enjoying the Bible. With that work as a basis and as a standard, we are now entering upon the study of the influence of the Bible and Christian teaching on our
literature. I think that we have here a measuring rod by which we can determine whether any literature that has been created is worthy of a place in our home libraries. A book that does not vibrate a spirit of the gospel is open to serious challenge as to whether it goes into the home or not. There is nothing narrow about this; it is soundly basic for all great literature that will be read and reread vibrates to the story of the Bible.
Parents have today the challenge, as never before, to get closer to the literature of their children. Nothing offers a better chance to get nearer to their hearts and souls than good books. We need to cultivate such a companionship in our homes.
May I pay tribute here to my dear mother, in closing. She made our library the center of our home, and she was ever ready to read some beautiful poem, to tell us some story. She saw to it that even though the linen closet or the china closet might not be as richly furnished as in other homes, she had good books in that room where we loved to gather.
We must pay more attention to the spiritual uplift of our homes. We must unite in getting better books in our homes. We must radiate the light of the gospel there.
God bless you in the great work you are doing, multiply and spread it, that the gospel may shine in every home in its simplicity, its purity, with its saving grace, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. Relief Society?s Expanding Welfare Service Elder Henry D. Moyle Chairman, General Welfare Committee THIS opportunity to advance the welfare program of the Church, though unsolicited, I can assure you is nevertheless deeply appreciated. Nor do I accept this invitation without a keen realization of the responsibility resting upon me. I appreciate this kind of consideration extended me by your able Presidency. I am sure, to the extent that any of us measures up to that which is expected of him, it is due entirely to the assistance he receives from his Heavenly Father. Without the assurance that he will and does help us, many of us, of whom I know I am myself one, would find our tasks insurmountable.
It is with this spirit of dependence upon the Lord that we must all approach our expanding responsibility?the welfare service of the Church. We must further acknowledge our individual insufficiency in carrying on the work by exhibiting a dependence upon each other. There is none of us in this Church so good or great or endowed with power sufficient to magnify his office and calling in the Church without receiving much assistance and in many ways?from his brethren and sisters in the wards and stakes of the Church in which he lives and works.
Welfare work is no exception to this well-established rule, which we might call "the rule of dependency" of the Church. That which I say is, of course, auxiliary to the priest-
hood, not to any quorum in particular, but to all quorums equally. Our spiritual and temporal welfare is so closely interwoven, there can be no clear line of demarcation between the two. No one can say the Relief Society takes care of either spiritual or temporal or secular? and not both. Every visit made by a Relief Society teacher, every class held, inspires someone to live nearer the Maker, and, at the same time, prepares that same person to take better care of herself and of her family temporally.
So we arrive at the first conclusion in projecting our welfare program into the future, and that is a complete organization is an absolute necessity. By this I mean we must first have a Relief Society fully officered and organized and functioning. Second, a welfare committee in each stake and ward on which the Relief Society presidency of the stake and ward are personally and actively represented. When this is the case, the stake Relief Society comes in direct contact each month with the president of the stake and the presidents of the various priesthood quorums, as well as the stake work directors, and the ward Relief Society meets each week with the bishop and the representatives of the priesthood quorums in the ward and the ward work directors, and, at this meeting, should become intimately familiar with the details of the welfare work of the ward and the needs of the membership, and it is at this meeting that they are assigned their duties and responsibilities for the coming month.
OUR basic problem in taking care of our own, as most of you know, is to render each family in the Church able to care for its own. We have perfected, to a marvelous degree, the production of the welfare budget. It is a pleasure for me to report to you all in time that the record of the Relief Society as an organization in assisting to produce this budget has not only been active in producing the budget, but has helped more than any other single agency in the Church to see to it that the budget, to the extent that it has been distributed, has reached those who needed it. I know of no failure, in the Church, of the Relief Society to promptly and adequately do that which they have been commissioned to do by their bishops since the inception of our welfare program. I am sure your future is to do more. We must increase materially our distribution.
You sisters appreciate that in planning for the welfare of the Church, we must produce more than we distribute in order to provide a surplus from which we can momentarily draw in case of a sudden or unexpected turn of events. It is, however, important while securing this insurance that we do not overlook these needs may not be apparent. By so doing we perform more fully our present responsibility and we are, at the same time, able to determine more accurately the extent to which, in the Church, we can better develop means and
methods of distribution, and in every other way fit and prepare and qualify ourselves to more adequately carry on our work in the future, and, above all, to more fully meet promptly any emergency. This, after all, is the best form of insurance of which we can conceive.
THE welfare work, as originally announced by the First Presidency, divides itself into four major subdivisions. We have thus far discussed the first general subdivision, that of temporary relief, involving, as has been suggested, the production and distribution of the budget. The second general subdivision deals with the permanent security of the members of the Church. A simple illustration suffices to bring out clearly the distinction between these two major phases of our work. A member in need can be given an order on the bishops' storehouse. This is temporary relief just as our budgets are temporary. They must be renewed every year to meet the temporary needs of that current year. It may be possible, however, to find this same needy member employment, and then we have solved his problem and removed the necessity for any temporary relief, and this latter we call permanent security.
Unquestionably, with the termination of hostilities in the world, the finding of employment and thus readjusting the lives of these, our brothers and sisters, whose lives were thrown out of adjustment by the war, is a real major problem. Before this problem has been successfully met, the Relief Society will no doubt have played a most important role in its ultimate solution. I commend this problem to you as one which justifies and calls for the best there is in the Relief Society.
To meet this problem, as well as all other problems that arise in the welfare program, the Church looks to the family for the final solution. If families cannot succeed in making each of their individual members self-sustaining through the united effort of all, there is little hope that any outside agency could add much toward any permanent solution of that individual's problem. As a matter of fact, it is natural for the family to always have some members dependent upon it. That's what families are for. The father and mother are dependent upon each other. It is to be hoped we shall always have children in our homes, and so long as we have children we shall have a family rather than an individual problem.
I WANT to go one step further and say that I hope we always have parents and grandparents in our homes, and, so long as we do, their problems as well as the problems of the children, are and should be the problems of the family. Up to date, at least, in Latter-day Saint homes, we have undertaken to provide in our homes for all members of our family, be they old or young. There has never been any difference in the nation made for spiritual guidance. We depend upon the priesthood of the father as the head of the family, assisted by his sons who may hold the priesthood. We unite the family daily in family prayer, we pray unitedly for the support, maintenance, welfare, spirituality and temporal progress we undertake to take in the family circle to direct
the footsteps of our children and to make the family influence predominate in the child's life, and expect the early training to be followed throughout life. The children in the Church, as they grow to maturity, reflect in their lives the teachings of their mother and father in the family. You mothers in Israel must continue to do your part. As a people, we must never be willing to give to another the rearing of our children.
Some say it is proper for the government to raise our families, send them to school, etc., because some of us pay taxes, or for some other equally absurd reason. We do not pay taxes for the purpose of having other people raise our children or care for our elderly people. If this were the reason for taxes, we might all very well keep our money and do the job ourselves without paying a large proportion of the sums used for that purpose for professional services.
As Latter-day Saints, we believe without any question that to destroy family responsibility is to destroy the family, and with the family destroyed, the Church would be gone. No church on earth claims for the family what we claim. The restoration of the gospel in this dispensation included the appearance of Elijah before the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple on the third day of April, 1836, in fulfillment of the prophecy of Malachi, "to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse."
We can hardly say that our hearts often go to the cradles of our children or that our children's hearts have been turned toward us, if we are in the frame of mind which permits us to share in any way, shape, or form the responsibility of parenthood with the world or any of its agencies, and if this be true it follows as a necessary corollary that our children cannot prepare themselves for full fellowship in the Church or magnify their offices and callings in the priesthood if they shirk their responsibility toward their parents, or share it in ever so small a way with the world.
May I ask: Can we love our mothers and leave the determination of their needs to laws or strangers, and the provision of these needs to the unearthliness and insecurities of the world? A few years ago, no one of us would have thought in this Church of favoring a law which relieved the mothers of support of the children. However, there are bills in Congress today, in the Congress of the United States, that look toward giving the mothers assistance for their children, without any relationship to need. In other words, any mother, if these laws were passed, as they have been passed in other countries, would be assisted by the government. The government does not recognize the father as the head of the family for obvious reasons. Dealing with the mother, the question of legitimacy or illegitimacy of the children involved need not be questioned. Need we say more?
The question might be put rather bluntly and boldly in these words: Do we as a people so far worship money that we are willing to the slightest degree to relinquish parental control of our children for gold?
In projecting the ever-expanding welfare program of the Church, we call upon the Relief Society as an organization and all of its members individually in faith and humility to answer these questions directly, and to be a direct influence in our own families for maintaining family unity, family integrity, family faith, and family loyalty to the ways of the Lord.
The Relief Society, like all other organizations in the Church, is confronted with the necessity of converting our saints to the simple fundamental principles of life and of truth everlasting, and to avoid the conflicting philosophies and theories of men in the world. To accomplish this purpose is to accomplish the purposes of the welfare program. We must gather Israel to the standards of our Lord.
Need we say that to be married for time and eternity in the house of the Lord by the priesthood is but the first step in the eternal scheme of family progression? The first step becomes as naught if we fail to continue to go forward in righteousness, maintaining the sacred relationship of family life and assuming all the responsibilities incident thereto throughout life, as we hope to do throughout eternity.
The Relief Society can and will, I am sure, expand its service so far as necessary to keep our brethren and sisters in the fold and to give to the priesthood of the Church the kind of an example and the encouragement through love and affection which will induce them to fully magnify their position in the family and in the Church; and that this may be our happy lot, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Relief Society Leadership President Amy Brown Lyman THE type of leadership which the Relief Society wishes to develop is the type which Jesus exemplified when he said, "I am among you as one that serveth" (Luke 22:27). In this same verse he says that it is greater to serve than to be served.
The service to which he dedicated his life was a service of unselfishness, self-sacrifice, and helpfulness. It was divinely inspired, was born of brotherly love, and safeguarded by the conception he held of the sacredness of the human personality. It was intelligent service resulting from keen observation and long years of study and preparation, and most important of all, from divine guidance.
It is assumed that as a boy Jesus lived a normal, peaceful, protected life in a humble house where he was trained to labor and work and to live in the fear of the Lord. It is evident that in he grew up he became an industrious worker, a careful observer, and a profound student, that he gained much knowledge by his own effort, and through prayer and devotion to our Heavenly Father he was blessed with great wisdom. Even at the age of twelve in his interview in the temple, he astonished the learned doctors with his unusual knowledge and attainments.
What a glorious example and pattern of work, observation, and inspiration for leaders and teachers was his! He was perhaps the greatest of all
leaders and teachers, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
The success of any enterprise depends largely upon its leaders. It is to them that people look for guidance, encouragement and inspiration.
Relief Society, with its many fields of activity, requires many workers and as the years go by and new avenues of service appear, new and additional workers, with new and additional preparation and experience, will be needed. Leaders are needed for executive work and for class teaching; for choral work and dramatics; for art-needlework and plain sewing; for homemaking and household management; for training for parenthood and family life; and for social welfare work. And with frequent changes in executive officers, practically all the members are called sooner or later to lead out in some activity and thus assume some responsibility.
One of the first requisites of Relief society leaders is to live the gospel. They should aim to be living examples of what they advocate and teach, being "doers of the word, and not hearers only" (James 1:22). They should conform to all the standards and requirements set for Latter-day Saints and be true to the ideals of the Church and of the gospel. They should honor and respect the priesthood and should hearken to any instructions the priesthood offers. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 They should practice what they preach and preach what they practice. They should cultivate spirituality and thus increase and strengthen their own testimonies and the testimonies of those whom they lead. Relief Society leaders should also seek to enhance their general scholarship and learning which will increase their ability and bear fruit in their efforts to lead and influence others. They should have some familiarity with the standard works of the Church. They should know something about the history and the background of the Church and its leaders. They should be familiar with the history, background, activities, and accomplishments of the Relief Society, and of the women who have directed its work. It is sometimes mistakenly claimed that only those who are born leaders or are born with an aptitude for leadership and teaching can succeed as leaders and teachers. Experience in Relief Society over a period of many years has demonstrated that this is not a correct conclusion and that leadership can be developed. The Society has seen women grow and develop as they have accepted calls to serve, and have sought the spirit of the Lord to guide them. It has seen women changed, yes, almost transformed through Relief Society service. Many at first too timid to take any part, have, through study and prayerful effort and practice, become resourceful, successful officers and class teachers, able conversationalists, and strong, well-poised individuals. They have learned much about how to meet life successfully, how to adjust to their environment, and how to get along and live and work with others. They have learned to be patient, tolerant, sympathetic, and understanding, and their love for humanity, which is one of the most important elements in leadership, as it is in life itself (brotherly love, if you please), has increased with the years of their service. In closing, I should like to salute all the leaders of Relief Society throughout the whole Church, all the leaders, past and present, who for one hundred years have guided successfully the destinies of this great and mighty organization. May the Lord continue to bless us all is my earnest prayer. Relief Society Membership President Louise Y. Robison IN a Relief Society meeting last season, the class leader had followed the outline for our work in the literature of the New Testament so inspirationally that, for the hour, we lived with the Savior and his disciples. It had taken us to a higher plane, and we had the desire in our hearts to live nearer to our Father in heaven. At the close of this meeting, one of the members came to the class leader and said, "I would love to have time to study the gospel as you have done, but it seems that home duties call me away from study." The understanding class leader said, "Yes, I know; I have taken care of my house all of my life, but I have never been told, nor do I believe, that my Heavenly Father gave me this precious earth life solely to do these things. Couldn't you try to adjust your time so that some of it could be used for the eternal principles? I have been taught through the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith that we are saved no faster than we gain knowledge, and that a person cannot successfully serve our Heavenly Father without the knowledge of his laws."
Of course, the element of time is a consideration, but each woman has twenty-four hours of time given her each day to use as she desires, in her own way. Now, most of us, in buying our bread and butter for our families, go to the place where we have confidence in the goods, though the food may last only until tomorrow. But when we go to a place where we find good thoughts, where we learn ideals that we can take home to our children, it is of great importance! The home is the laboratory of the souls of those entrusted to our care, and a good idea, a good book, a good thought, or a prayer is of great importance, as we were told today by Brother Driggs, in this home that produces high ideals.
But there are so many interests, and we naturally look around and think, which is the most important to give for our time. And the question arises, How about Relief Society? What does it offer its members?
First, Relief Society offers elevating, beautiful friendships. The best friendships of my life have been formed through the Society, and
Our meetings are called together, and the first thing is to remember Him in song?which brings a sweet worshipful peace. Then the prayer is offered, a humble prayer offered by one of our humble sisters, but asking for that precious gift, the gift that God will send us?his spirit, which is light and truth.
This is followed then, and is the setting for the theology lesson which teaches us the will of our Father in heaven and his laws that will prepare us for his kingdom. Then, in testimony meeting, we have the opportunity of telling each other of the kindness of our Heavenly Father to us and of the beautiful principles of the gospel, and just as sure as we come in contact with his spirit, we take it to our homes. It is this spirit that builds up the faith of our children.
The second Tuesday of our Relief Society is more of a social day. We meet more informally, we learn to take care of our homes and our children, and we give service to others in our Welfare Plan, that we with better part may ask for God's blessing at the close of day.
Then, the study of the literature of the New Testament, that wonderful part of the Bible that inspires us with higher thoughts; and the innumerable poems and stories and songs, inspired by these truths, raise the standard of culture in our homes.
The fourth study is a practical study of character development, of honesty and morality and truth. Where these are taught in the home, supplemented by the faith that has been developed, children are fortified to meet life when they cross the bridge from the home to the work of the world.RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 Nor are we left alone. Our Father in Heaven is as much interested ln our children?more so, even, than we, and he has said to us: *'Be thou humble; and the Lord Thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers" (Doc. And Gov. 112:10). Is there any promise greater for us to receive in return for the time spent properly? Active membership in Relief Society makes this promise secure through the beautiful lessons provided for us through the inspired teacher or class leader, and through a prayerful study of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Ghrist. Membership in Relief Society is offered to all women who seek to live the better life. I leave my prayer and my blessing for these fine women, the Presidency of this organization and the General Board, who, through the priesthood of the living God, have been given the torch to light, to lead us into perfection, to make our homes clean and pure, that there will be no evil come in. I pray that the stake presidents may receive this light and carry it to the wards, and, most important, that the ward presidents may receive this light, and that they may have the blessing in giving and interpreting it to the individual members, that we will all, when we leave here, turn to our Father in heaven, that these precious souls that he has entrusted to our care, our children, may be pure and clean and sweet. May this be our lot, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Ghrist. Amen. Feed My Lambs" Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards IT should not be hard to say something to a group like this. I love the Relief Society and I have reason to because I have served as bishop of three different wards, and I have said that I could get along as well without a first counselor as I could without the Relief Society president. We have been particularly privileged, the present Presiding Bishopric of the Church, to be able to labor as advisers to Sister Robison and her counselors, to Sister Lyman and her counselors, and now to Sister Spafford and her assistants. Recently our work has been divided so that we are only advisers in their temporal affairs and their work in caring for the poor and those in distress. We have learned to love and appreciate these women, and it is a delight to be here this morning, to listen to them, as I know it is to each one of you here present today. This is a wonderful Church! Yesterday we went to the temple, the General Authorities with the mission presidents, in a meeting that commenced at nine o'clock, and we left there at twenty minutes after five. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 743 As I sat listening to the mission presidents bring back to the headquarters of the Church the spirit of the work that is being done under their direction, from the fringe of the Church, where the Church is expanding, I said to myself, "Well, if the Prophet Joseph had died for the establishment of the missionary system of this Church only, he surely would not have died in vain." Then to come here this morning and see this grand group of Relief Society workers, and let our minds go out to what is actually being done in the Church everywhere, I say again that if the Prophet Joseph had died for the establishment of the Relief Society organization of this Church only, he surely would not have died in vain. I want to remind you of one statement of the Master. You will remember how he gathered his followers from their nets and their fishes. After Jesus was crucified, Peter said, "I go fishing," and you remember that others of the disciples followed him, and then how Jesus came and found them when they were not successful in their fishing and he told them to cast their nets on the other side, and you know then the success that followed. And then Jesus said, directing himself to Peter: Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? (These fishes.) He saith unto him. Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him. Feed my lambs. He saith unto him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him. Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him. Feed my sheep. He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him. Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep (John 21:15-17). TAGW, sisters, I do not know anything in the world that we can do to more pleasingly demonstrate to our Father in heaven our love of him than feeding the sheep and the lambs of his fold. He has said that the good shepherd leaves the ninety and nine to go out after the one strayed away. We, from the Presidency down, are going to try in this Church to emphasize ward teaching as it has never been done before. We feel that we are becoming marvelously organized and equipped and qualified for doing our work within the sacred walls of our beautiful buildings, but there are many, many on every hand who do not gather to receive the word of God, that we must accentuate our effort and emphasize it, to go to the homes and there carry the message and the spirit of this great latter-day work about which you have been speaking this morning. The Relief Society has a program that parallels the great ward teaching program of the Church. You are messengers to the homes. I like that part of the Relief Society work, where it is done in the right spirit and by faithful and efficient women ?and we have thousands and tens of thousands of them in the Church today?who go into the homes of the Latter-day Saints, taking with them the spirit of the gospel, the spirit of Christ, looking after the lost ones and gathering in and helping and encouraging where encouragement is necessary. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 If the sisters of this great organization will unite in the spirit of the priesthood of the Church to try to awaken within the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, particularly in those who have been inactive and indifferent, a love of the truth, a devotion to God and his great latter-day work, I am sure we will see the work of God going on as it has never done before, and the day will come when we will learn how to do our work for the salvation and exaltation of our Father's children in a far better manner than we have ever done before. God bless each one of you in your various fields, in your wards and stakes, and give you vision and power and inspiration, that you may touch the hearts of your people, that you may arise in your great assignment to heights you have never dreamed of before, to the honor and glory of God and the blessing and the salvation of his children, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ?Photograph courtesy Salt Lake Tribune. THREE GENERAL PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY President Amy Brown Lyman, 1940-1945; President Belle S. Spafford, 1945?-; President Louise Y. Robison, 1928-1939. (This picture was taken at the reception honoring President Amy Brown Lyman, October 3, 1945.) GENERAL SESSION, AFTERNOON OF OCTOBER 4, 1945 Wartime Activities of Our European Relief Society Counselor Gertrude R. Garff HOW wonderful it is to meet in Relief Society general conference again! How privileged we are to be able to assemble and listen to the counsel of the President of our Church. I think we have never appreciated this privilege as we do now because we were not granted the opportunity of gathering in conferences during the war years. We rejoice that this opportunity has been restored to us. Today in this great gathering are Relief Society women from most of the stakes of Zion, and most of the missions of the Church are represented by the presence of Relief Society mission presidents or Relief Society mission presidents who have only recently been released. However, there is a great group of loyal, faithful Relief Society women who have no representation here today, with but one exception, and who, I know, are with us in spirit if not in the flesh. They are our European Relief Society sisters. My sisters, we in the United States have been in constant communication with the Church authorities. Many of us could listen to the conference proceedings over the radio. Also, we were visited quarterly at stake conferences by Church authorities, and at any time we could write in to headquarters and get any counsel and help that was needed. Many of our missions have been handicapped by the lack of missionaries, but they did have mission presidents and Relief Society presidents sent from headquarters to preside over and lead the work there, and were in communication with the Church most of the time. In spite of these handicaps, they accomplished a wonderful work in both war and regular Relief Society activities. Some even started welfare plans and had singular success with these ventures. Today, I wish to pay tribute to our sisters in Europe. These women who have carried on Relief Society work under handicaps that would be discouraging even with missionaries in their midst. Since the fall of 1939, when the European saints sang "God Be With You Till We Meet Again," while waving goodbye to the missionaries on board ships sailing to America, our European brothers and sisters (with the exception of the British who have had good communication with Church headquarters) have had very little direct communication with Church authorities and the leadership was placed in the hands of local brethren. They have suffered tribulation beyond our comprehension. The Church and auxiliaries RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 through Brother Thomas E. McKay, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, have made every effort to get lessons and communications to these good people. Barring accident to letters and lessons enroute ?Norway and Denmark were reached through Sweden; Germany, France, Belgium, Czechoslovakia and the Netherlands were reached through Switzerland; and conversely, any word we received reached us by the same route. Occasionally, we would get and send Red Cross messages; but they took six to eight months to get to their destination, and were only a few words long. However, we were thankful for the information received, though scarce, and, now, since the cessation of hostilities, many letters bearing foreign postmarks have arrived and the stories they tell are of great interest to us. So that these sisters may have a part in our conference today, I am going to tell you of some of their activities. Can you imagine our wards with none of the brethren present to conduct the meetings?to administer the sacrament? Quite generally throughout the European mission, and especially in Norway, Germany, and Switzerland, the men belonging to the Church were in service or had gone underground. The Relief Society women were called to hold the people together, to conduct all the meetings. They even had singing practice and in some places the Singing Mothers' groups were very active. The Relief Society visiting teachers were given added responsibility as there were no men to do ward teaching. Where it was possible and there were older men holding the priesthood, they would visit the branches periodically and ad-minster the sacrament. At all other times it was the Relief Society women who carried the full responsibility of keeping the Church membership together. With the beginning of the war the Relief Society plunged into war work along with their regular programs. In Britain, under the direction of Sister Anastasiou who is here with us today, the Relief Society, among other things, gathered clothing for refugee organizations and received a gracious letter of thanks from the council in charge of distributing this clothing. ONE of the most touching incidents to come to us from Europe is the story of Sister Zippro, the Netherlands Relief Society president. She was willing to face alone the dangers of an invading army in order that members of the Church might receive assistance from the Relief Society. After hostilities between the two armies ceased, this dear sister, knowing of the terrible destruction of Rotterdam, concluded to ride her bicycle (the only means of travel because train travel, etc., was thoroughly disrupted) sixty miles from Amsterdam to Rotterdam. She found many of the families living with other members, as they had lost all earthly belongings when their homes had been completely destroyed by bombs. She immediately ascertained their needs and started to raise funds from among the other members to help those most affected by the invasion. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Her bravery and devotion to the ideals of Relief Society under such trying and perilous circumstances are worthy of our highest praise. Nor did our Relief Society sisters confine their benevolent work to their own missions, but gave generously of their resources to those of another country. The Oslo Branch Relief Society gave a dinner for the; old people of the branch and the food was furnished by the Danish Relief Society, otherwise no festival could have been held as food was almost as scarce in Norway as anywhere in Europe. Both the Swedish and Danish missions obtained food permits at regular intervals and sent food into Norway to be distributed among the Norwegian saints. It is amazing to note that in such a terrible period of our world's history, new Relief Societies were being organized. I want to read an excerpt from a letter to Brother McKay from Elder Fritz Johanssen, the Swedish Mission President: Between August 7 and 22, together with District President Claus A. Person and Sister Astrid Johanssen of the mission Relief Society board, I made a journey to Finland. The little Society was organized at my first visit shortly after the winter war 1939-40 to a regular branch. This time we had the great pleasure of baptizing three persons. This time I was inspired to undertake the Finland journey and at the same time write an additional part of its gospel history as far as Finland is concerned, namely, that the first female Relief Society was organized there. Time and again we felt as when the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith 747 organized the first Relief Society in the world. All of the letters I have read coming from Europe tell of the terrific need for clothing. Clothing is, of course, rationed, but even those with money cannot find the necessary items to buy. Our members in Denmark have gone stockingless for a year at a time and shoes are never seen in the shops. As is generally the case, the children are suffering the most. Now permission has been granted to send eleven-pound packages into all the missions except Germany and Czechoslovakia; and I am happy to report that packages are being sent by our Central Welfare Storehouse to the branch and Relief Society presidents for distribution to the needy members, which include nearly all since money is not involved. There just aren't any clothes to buy of either good or bad quality. My dear sisters, what inspired these women to perform these unselfish and thoughtful deeds? It was their membership in Relief Society, their knowledge of the purpose and ideals of Relief Society, that gave them the courage to undertake those difficult tasks. It was the Relief Society organization that empowered those women and made their efforts to gather funds and clothing and to send food to members in another country effective. Without this organization, they could not have been prepared to take over the responsibility of handling the work of the branches when they were left with no priesthood to officiate. Their letters thank us for our prayers in their behalf. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945Let us give thanks for these faithful sisters and brothers for their trials have indeed been greater than ours. In closing, I wish to bear my testimony. I am thankful for the gospel, for the meaning it gives to my life. I am thankful for the opportunity of serving the Lord and I feel to express with Moroni of old: And awake, and arise from the dust, O Jerusalem; yea, and put on thy beautiful garments, O daughter of Zion; and strengthen thy stakes and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou mayest no more be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he hath made unto thee, O house of Israel, may be fulfilled (Moroni 10:31), Dream for a Relief Society Building Counselor Marianne C. Sharp T WOULD ask an interest in your faith and prayers for I feel that words are very inadequate to express the feelings which are in my heart today. I am grateful for the privilege we have as sisters?as mothers always working for the salvation of our children and as Church members striving for the furtherance of the work of the Church?to meet together once more in a Relief Society general conference. I am grateful, personally, for the opportunity I have to work in the Relief Society under Sister Spafford who is true and faithful, and I want to thank my Heavenly Father for this privilege. I love the Relief Society. I love the sisters in the Relief Society and have joy in association with them. Wherever I have lived or visited in the Church I have felt the close bond of love and service which links together the members of the Society today. The members today, however, are only links in a great chain of sisters which reaches back to include the valiant and great women of the past 103 years, and will stretch forward to encompass those yet unborn who will devote their services to working for the good of others, always seeking at the same time to improve themselves. I am thinking particularly this afternoon of those sisters who have gone on before. Ever since Sister Lyman appointed Sister Spafford and me to help prepare the book A Centenary oi Relief Society to commemorate the hundredth birthday of the Society, I have felt very near to the Relief Society leaders of the past and the faithful members who are the mothers, grandmothers, and great-grandmothers, even great-great-grandmothers, of the members today. They have stepped out alive for me from the pages of the Woman's Exponent and from the minutes of the General Board. Their testimonies have increased my testimony. I have shared in their joys and sorrows and, as nearly as one can, I have entered into their desires for the upbuilding of Relief Society. As we studied this history of the past, we read of one great dream which had gone unfulfilled. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 749 It is of this unfulfilled dream I wish to speak today. In order to introduce it, I will take you back forty-nine years ago yesterday to October 3, 1896, to a general Relief Society conference held in the Assembly Hall. Aunt Zina Young was the president of the Relief Society at that time and with her on the stand sat her three counselors, her vice-presidents as they were called, First Counselor Jane S. Richards, Second Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith, and" her third Counselor Sarah M. Kimball. It was near the end of the afternoon session that, according to the minutes taken by Sister Emmeline B. Wells, then secretary: President Zina D. H. Young, in her remarks, opened out upon the subject of a house for the Relief Society, to be owned by them. Women had done so much to help build other public buildings and temples that they had no means to build one for the Relief Society. President C. O. Card had said when they lacked the means to go on with the Logan Temple and the men were to be discharged because there was no means to pay them for their work, Sister Jane S. Richards raised five hundred dollars in the Relief Society of Weber County to keep the men working, and that stands as a memento to the sisters forever. Vice President Sarah M. Kimball confined her remarks to the subject of a house for the Society. She felt it a humiliation to be without a place of our own; we had contributed to all public places and at all times. Now we want to have a house and we want land to build it on and it should be in the shadow of the temple. It should be a place to receive strangers in when they come, a place where letters can be written" from and information given, I think we should vote on this matter, whether you representative women want this building or not; we want to put it to vote. Sister Kimball told the sisters what Joseph Smith had said in Nauvoo to the sisters of the Society there and had given them a lot belonging to the Church and a house on it which could be repaired and made useful. Now, said Sister Kimball, I want to ask you sisters if you want such a building as I have described. The motion was put and the vote was unanimous. Sister Kimball added, if you want this proposition carried out, then see how much can be done. The interest in building a house for the Relief Society continued strong and money began to be collected, however through the next ten years there also ran the fear, expressed quite often by those dear, faithful sisters as once stated by Sister M. Isabella Home?"don't branch out too largely at once, there is not much to do with, and the Relief Society must care for the poor.? In view of this great financial responsibility which they felt was theirs, the money was not quickly forthcoming, but the dreaming and planning went on. Their plans called for kitchens, pantries, banqueting hall, cooking utensils, a furnace and closets and a room for the janitor, and offices upstairs, "with library and bureau of information, that will be in the best sense educational, and be open to all members of the society, and where lectures may be given by distinguished professors in all branches of science, art and literature, and on general topics." In 1900, the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association and the Primary Association joined forces with the Relief Society with the hope that together the three could raise enough money for a suitable woman's building. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 March 1901, The matter was presented to President Lorenzo Snow who, in was reported to have said: The women must have twenty thousand dollars before commencing the house; in fact, before we could put a spade in the ground or have the land measured off, and when we had that amount on hand he would give the deed of the land, and we could be as sure of it as you will of happiness when you get to heaven. In speaking to the Relief Society at an outing at Saltair, July 9, 1901, President Snow said in part: You who are present today are members of the oldest organization in the Church outside of the Priesthood. The Relief Society was organized nearly sixty years ago, with 18 members (my sister, Eliza R. Snow being the secretary) by the Prophet Joseph Smith, under the inspiration of the Lord; and from that day to the present it has gone on without interruption growing in strength and usefulness, until today it is recognized as one of the most powerful forces for good in the Church. You are now 30,000 strong I am told, with a building fund of nearly $5,000, and with upwards of $100,000 worth of property in your possession. In addition to this you are the only ones among the Saints who are doing anything in a financial way against a day of famine. Your work in this direction is most commendable, and I hear as a result that you have 103,783 bushels of grain, together with an amount of flour and beans, safely stored against a time of need, as well as $3,331 to expend for the same purpose. In a letter of July 1901 signed by the First Presidency, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith, it stated: We commend the undertaking [of a woman's building] and have contributed a valuable building site opposite the Temple, valued at $18,000. Sister Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief Society, died in August 1901, and, in October 1901, President Lorenzo Snow passed away. The new president of the Church, President Joseph F. Smith, called Bathsheba W. Smith to be the new Relief Society president, and the plans continued to progress under her administration. The site which has been described on which a three-story building of yellow pressed brick with a stone foundation was to be built for a woman's building became the Bishop's Building?Relief Society donated $8500 toward its erection and was given quarters in it. The first Relief Society General Board meeting was held in it December 3,1909. This, in brief, is the story of the dream for a Relief Society building which was never built. It is a story of heartache for the Relief Society women who had planned and worked for it for so many years. Relief Society today, however, has already outgrown the space that would have been given it in the proposed woman's building. What seemed a tragedy may prove a blessing and joy to Relief Society in the future. I am thankful for the Relief Society women of the past. I am thankful for their vision. They were great and noble women, women who had faith in their own cause, who loved Relief Society, but who knew that the welfare of the whole Church was above all their welfare. They humbly accepted the decisions of the Church authorities with faith as being in their best interests. They were obedient. May we in our day be as devoted and as faithful? and in all things may we render as full and as unstinted an obedience to the authorities of the Church as did our sisters of long ago is my prayer. A Relief Society Building to Be Erected President Belle S. Spafford THIS is a glorious day for Relief Society, a day for which we have longed and prayed, knowing full well it could come only when the nations should still the guns of war. We are grateful to our Heavenly Father that the hostilities which have engulfed the earth, spreading destruction and breaking hearts, have ceased. We acknowledge his goodness that so soon after the disruptions of war we are privileged to meet in a general Relief Society conference.
This is the first general Relief Society conference to be held since the Society observed its 102th birthday. We are today setting our feet forward on the second century of Relief Society history. As we approach this new era, we do not anticipate any new nor great departmental purposes of the Society as set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith and reiterated by each of the succeeding presidents of the Church.
The past is a force that is alive, and, like all living things, is growing and maturing while preserving a pattern that can be recognized and defined. From the past we inherit not only patterns and standards, but vision, strength, insight, faith and courage. The past has passed on to us, too, as a part of our heritage, its unfulfilled dreams and desires and bids us keep faith with it in regard to these, for these, too, are a constant invitation to advancement and progress.
Sister Sharp has brought to your attention today a deep-seated and sincere desire that has persisted in the hearts and minds of Relief Society women year after year as the century has rolled by?the desire for a Relief Society building, one that would beautifully and adequately represent the women of the Church. This desire, born and nurtured in the past, is today firmly rooted in our hearts. And, entering as we are upon a second century of Relief Society, a strong and growing organization rich in the blessings of the Lord, this seems the right and appropriate time to bring to fruition this dream of the past, to erect a building that shall stand a monument to Latter-day Saint women and a credit to the Church.
Our Church is the foremost organization in all the world with regard to women. The restored gospel gives to women a position of dignity and respect. It recognizes their spiritual and mental powers and their right to use their inborn talents to the full. Latter-day Saint women have been organized under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood and have been provided unlimited opportunities for development. The gospel teaches that women have an appointed place in the plan of salvation and that the Lord loves his daughters as he loves his sons and that the promises, blessings are the same for both. It, therefore, seems entirely fitting that a building should be erected as a symbol to all people of the lofty position accorded faithful daughters of our Heavenly Father in the gospel plan.
Nurtured by a Church recognizing woman's true position, women have, in turn, given full devotion to the Church. This has been true with regard to the building program of the Church. Even before the women were organized as a Society in Nauvoo, they banded together to help feed and clothe the men working on the Kirtland Temple. It was with the desire to aid the work of building the Nauvoo Temple that Sarah M. Kimball, in 1842, invited her neighbors to join with her in forming a "Ladies' Society." When the Prophet Joseph Smith was approached regarding this matter, he invited the women to meet with him and some of the brethren a week later, at which time (March 17, 1842) the women were organized as the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo."
Lucy Mack, mother of the Prophet, spoke of the importance attached by the women to their activities in behalf of the Nauvoo Temple, as follows:
There was but one mainspring to all our thoughts and actions and that was the building of the Lord's house.
Relief Society women have given of their best according to their circumstances and conditions, toward the building, furnishing, and beautifying of temples erected by the Church.
Not only have Relief Society women been vitally interested in the building of temples but they have been generous in their donations to stake tabernacles, ward meeting houses, and other Church buildings, generally raising funds for these edifices as well as building funds,
cooking and serving dinners or conducting bazaars which have taken weeks and months of tedious preparation.
Yet, after more than one hundred years, during which time they have actively participated in the building program of the Church, they stand today with no home of their own.
The continuing growth of the Society, with the continuous expansion of the various departments connected by the General Board, also demand that provision soon be made to more adequately house the general offices, the temple-burial clothes, Magazine, welfare and other departments.
With the consent of the First Presidency, and with your support, it is our intention to go forward immediately with plans for the building and for financing its erection. It is our desire to have the building belong to the women of the Church and to have every Relief Society woman feel the pride of ownership in it. It is our desire to have the building not only house the general offices and the various departments maintained by the General Board, but to have it be of service to all members of the Society. We expect to include in it comfortable lounge rooms where you may leave your wraps, a well as meet a friend; check rooms where you may leave your bundles; a relic room where choice articles of historic value may be preserved and displayed; an auditorium with well-equipped work and exhibition kitchens where homemaking demonstrations and lectures may be given, as well as other features suitable to a Relief Society building and the work of the Society.
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 753 It is our earnest desire that it shall be built by the many rather than the few. That every person may be given opportunity to contribute to its erection and enjoy the sense of satisfaction and pride that comes from so doing, we believe that every one of our more than 100,000 members will want to make a contribution and thus become in reality a part owner in this Relief Society home and Latter-day Saint women's memorial edifice. We believe that throughout the Church are many men, as well, who will welcome the opportunity to honor a wife or mother by contributing funds, and that many other friends of Relief Society will wish to show their regard for the Society by assisting financially. Through the united support of all, we believe that the necessary finances will be readily and willingly contributed. We realize, however, that to erect the type of building we have in mind is a mammoth undertaking. We know that if we are to realize our ambition the full support of every enrolled member of Relief Society will be necessary. We would like at this time to know your attitude toward the proposed building program. Therefore, just as our sisters of long ago called for a vote on this identical proposition, so today, forty-nine years later, we too are calling for a vote of this great congregation composed of Relief Society women of our day representing most of the stakes and many of the missions of the Church. Your General Board proposes the erection at the earliest possible date of a Relief Society building that shall be monumental and beautiful, to adequately serve the members of the Society not only for today but in the years to come. Will all those in favor of this proposition please show it by the uplifted hand. (The vote was unanimous in the affirmative.) This is a glorious experience, not only to see your uplifted hands but to feel your support. As soon as plans for the building and its financing are perfected and approved they will be released to you. We feel assured of your support. We appreciate your support in all of the work of Relief Society. We are grateful for your righteousness and your spirit of service. We are grateful for the strength of your testimonies. We are grateful for the women of the past, for their vision and understanding of the needs of Latter-day Saint women, and for their great contribution to us and to the future. We are above all things grateful for the gospel. May the Lord bless you and comfort you and may our righteous and worthy ambitions know fulfillment I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. [The address by President George Albert Smith, page 715, was then delivered. ] Success to a Relief Society Building Elder Marvin O. Ash ton First Counselor, Presiding Bishopric SUCCESS to you in this building! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 May you speedily start, and may you speedily finish it. If we are perfectly honest with your, and sometimes we are, we would say something like this to President Spafford, "Success to you in this building," and, as the host said to those guests he had in the house as he went into the closet to take out their coats, "Here's your hat, but what's your hurry?" Our building over there is crowded. You need a new building and so do we need more elbow room. Success to you! I wish that every building that is financed would be financed as easily as you are going to finance this building; and I hope I have the privilege, and I am sure it won't be denied, to give my pittance in this direction. In closing, inasmuch as President Smith has mentioned the Lamanites, I just want to pay tribute to a Relief Society worker; namely. Sister Flora Hicks, who has had charge, with her husband, of the Lamanites in the Papago Ward, Arizona. She was called down there ten or twelve years ago, and she passed away about eight weeks ago. We had the privilege of standing in that house as those Lamanites came in to pay homage to her. They are supposed to be cold; they are not supposed to be very enthusiastic in their emotions. When those people came in, about three hundred strong, one at a time and in groups, they cried like babies in the loss of that wonderful woman and what she had done for them. And as they put her under the ground, the little Lamanite president of the Relief Society put fifty dollars in the hands of Brother Hicks. They heard that he had had some intention of moving back to Salt Lake City sometime. She said, "Here is fifty dollars, and men have another fifty dollars. That is for a monument to this good woman. You are not going to move her from this sacred soil?" God bless her memory. She gave herself to help other persons raise their standards of life. God bless you. Amen. Relief Society Wheat Project Elder Joseph L. Wirthlin Second Counselor, Presiding Bishopric THERE is no question but what I should like to talk to you for a you sisters have missed a great moment about a project in which many things in not being able to at you are vitally interested, namely, tend the sessions of the general the wheat storage project which conference during the past four originated in the days of President years, but I should like you to know Brigham Young when he counseled that we have missed you very much, the members of the Relief Society and we are happy that you are back, to store wheat against a day of need. If we were to continue attending In that day of long ago, the sisters general conference without our sis of the Relief Society went out into the fields after the brethren had harvested the crops and literally gleaned what was left, and from that day on until 1919, the sisters of the Relief Society had been accumulating wheat which eventually amounted to thousands of bushels. The Federal Government, in 1919, proposed the purchase of this wheat, and it was sold to the Government for the sum of approximately $400,000. With the approval of the First Presidency, the money was placed in trust in the Presiding Bishop's office with the understanding that this money would be invested in such a way as to insure its safety and return some interest. Over the years the interest has been paid to the Relief Societies of the Church, who in turn have used it for maternity and child welfare work. But about four years ago, the First Presidency deemed it advisable to invest the money again in wheat to the end that should there come a day of need, some provision would be made to provide for the members of the Church. Hence, a large elevator was erected on Welfare Square with welfare labor, which holds approximately 250,000 bushels of wheat. A small elevator was purchased at Levan, Utah, and another one at McCammon, Idaho. The recently purchased flour mill at Kaysville has an additional storage capacity of 72,000 bushels. At the present time the Relief Society has stored in the Salt Lake Elevator and the one at Levan approximately 215,000 bushels of wheat which has a value at the present market price of over $200,000, and there is a sizable amount of the original wheat funds that has not yet been invested in wheat.
As we contemplate this achievement by the women of the Church, the effort required, it represents to
all of us a grand and glorious achievement. More than that, it represents the principle of generosity and willingness to provide the staff of life for any members of the Church who might be in need. It is further evidence of the divine power that inspires men and women to do those things which are for the spiritual and temporal benefit of the Church.
AND now as you approach a new project in the way of a building for the women of the Church, there will be no question about your success and the final accomplishment of your objective. No doubt when this building project gets underway, the brethren of the Church will be given the privilege to contribute to the fund that will cover the cost of the building as an expression of appreciation and gratitude for the splendid service rendered by this great organization of women.
My mother was a Relief Society president. I say, "God bless her for her devoted service," for out of the service rendered in this great organization, she set her children an example which instilled in their hearts a love for the gospel of Jesus Christ. When I think of these ministering angels of the Relief Society, the words of the song just rendered express best the spirit in which they labor: "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give unto you, not as the world gives, give I unto you." The spirit of the Master motivates this great organization of our sisters to render a service which causes all of us to say, "God bless them."
May God bless you in all of your endeavors, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent December 1, and December 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" ADVICE TO MOTHERS: Mothers, and those who have the care of young children and infants, should remember to be in school themselves every day of their lives, for even the infant imbibes the spirit of her who attends it day by day and hour by hour; delicacy and refinement should guard every action, for, be assured, the plastic soul will bear the impress given! Language, also, should ever be guarded, that no words or exclamations may fall upon the infant ear, but that which is sweet, harmonious, and loving.... You, young mothers, remember day by day and hour by hour the mighty responsibility that rests upon you.... Devote, at least, the next twenty years to maturing and educating your children; this will be to you the finest school on earth.?Hannah T. King. CHRISTMAS: Christmas approaches, and as the merry season draws near, our thoughts revert to a period... When the Eternal Son of God, the mighty Savior of the world, condescended to become the babe of Bethlehem, and descend below all things, that He might bring about the great scheme of redemption, and open up the way whereby a fallen world could be restored to the presence of the Father... He came unto his own, and his own received him not.... Then, when another Christmas day dawns upon the earth, let us remember the Holy One who has again restored the Gospel to the earth... Let us as Latter-day Saints, seek after the spirit of Him whose birth we celebrate, and strive to do the works that He did.... In this way we shall ourselves receive a blessing, and give to all a happy Christmas.? Phebe C. Young. WINTER: Winter at last is here in pomp and magnificence; it has ushered itself in. The beautiful carpet of grass has been replaced by one of pure white snow.... Who does not love, as in the evening they are seated before a cosy fire, to hear the wild winds of winter first coming like a low, moaning whisper, then louder, shriller, and more fierce.... Again, who does not love to view the trees on a clear frosty morning; they stand forth draped in their pure white robes of snow.... All, all in loveliness.... I thank God that I have been given an appreciative mind to enjoy all this loveliness of nature.?Ida. A CHRISTMAS PRAYER Enlighten, comfort, sanctify my heart, Sweeten my temper and subdue my will. I want to bring my sisters to thy throne, I want to love and honor Christ alone, I want to feel the spirit's inward power. And stand prepared for death's important hour.  I want to do whatever God requires, I want a heart to burn with pure desires. Lead me through life to glorify thy grace, And after death to see Thee face to face. -M. A. Greenhalgh Page 756 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WINNIFRED M. TIBBS, Utah poet, who was ninety years old, October 26, and her sister, Miss Nellie Morris, who was eighty-three in March, were honored at an open house Sunday, October 28, at the home of Mrs. Tibbs' daughter, Mrs. Josephine T. Saville. Nearly three hundred guests called to greet the sisters. THE August number of The Relief Society Magazine illustrates the headdresses of Navajo girls. Sister Maggie Nielsen of Bluff, Utah, recently made a wedding dress for a Navajo bride, in which the skirt had twenty-two gores, each approximately one yard wide at the bottom. AT atea on November 5, honoring Utah's 8,000 Minute Women, Governor Herbert B. Maw presented each guest with a certificate of merit bearing the State seal. Especially honored were Mrs. John T. Wahlquist, State Chairman, and Mrs. L. A. Stevenson, Salt Lake City Chairman, unusually intelligent and dynamic organizers and leaders. Working on thirty-two salvage and conservation programs, the women have salvaged for example, six and one-half million pounds of tin, seven million pounds of waste paper, and forty-six and one-half million pounds of rags and old clothing. Miss Helen Blakenhorn of the national War Production Board said: Utah has the very best woman's organization for salvage in the United States. Mr. E. C. Seawell, national chairman of fat salvage said, "Utah has done the best salvage job in the United States. There is alive today a vivid imprint of the pioneer. Utah has retained the realities. She has combined qualities visible and invisible to set an example." VARIOUS professions in which Utah women have excelled are: Law?Judge Florence E. Allen, also poet, musician, and instructor in Greek, who has served on the Ohio Supreme Court Bench, and on the Circuit Court for Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee. Engineering: Young Inez Hansen was the third engineer hired at the Geneva Steel plant, and is now working on a great airport being built in San Francisco. Dentistry: Dr. Rose By water Valentine was Utah's first woman dentist, practicing forty-five years ago. She is now president of the Women Dentists Association of the Pacific Coast. Anthropology: Mrs. Huberta Berg Robison, a young Latter-day Saint girl, formerly of California, now of Utah, is employed by the Carnegie Institute, studying Mayan characters and culture, and making expert graphs. Page 757 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 32 DECEMBER 1945 NO. 12 116th Semi-annual Church Conference  COLORFUL and impressive was the scene in Salt Lake City on the morning of October 5, 1945, the opening day of the 116th semi-annual conference of the Church. All roads appeared to lead to Temple Square as thousands of Latter-day Saints, conference bound, hearts rejoicing in the blessing of our Heavenly Father, eagerly anticipated words which would soon come from inspired Church leaders to guide, comfort, and sustain them. Four weary, anxious war years had passed since the general Church membership had met in the great Tabernacle in conference session, years in which souls had been tried and many had been called upon to mourn. The resumption of conference for the general Church membership, made possible through the cessation of hostilities, was indeed a comfort to the souls of Latter-day Saints, and a joy to their hearts. This conference, too, was an eventful occasion for a most important and impressive ceremony, one participated in by the priesthood and general membership but rarely a ceremony referred to in Church history as a Priesthood Solemn Assembly. Page 758 This ceremony is the custom when voting for a new president of the Church for the first time in general conference, and has been the practice of the Church since President John Taylor was sustained in conference general conference. Voting is by quorums, in order, beginning with the First Presidency and continuing down through the Aaronic Priesthood. Voting by the priesthood is followed by that of the remaining Church membership. In voting, the right hand is raised to the square to witness to the Lord that one sustains the officer for whom he is voting. The Solemn Assembly, presided over by President George Albert Smith and directed by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. At the opening session of the conference October 5, voted to sustain President George Albert Smith as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Smith came to this position on May 21, 1945, following the death of President Heber J. Grant. The humility of soul, accompanied by the power that comes with a deep and abiding testimony of the gospel, confirmed in the minds of the thousands who heard the voice of President Smith as he addressed the Church membership following the voting, the belief that they had indeed sustained one who was a prophet, seer, and revelator divinely appointed and endowed with divine authority to lead the Church in this great and perilous day. The Church membership also EDITORIAL 759 sustained President George F. Richards as president of the Council of the Twelve, and Elder Matthew Cowley as a new member of the Council of the Twelve. Strong and effective, and a terse reminder to the saints of the covenants they had made that day in voting were the words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. When he said: Today I have given witness to President Smith, to you and to the Lord that I will sustain him as prophet, seer and revelator and president of the Church. Each of us has made a life covenant. God gives to each of us the strength and the power to be loyal; to give up fault finding; to follow the command of the Lord; to follow those whom we have ourselves sustained. Without leadership the Church cannot grow. Throughout all of the sessions of the conference, speakers paid high tribute to President Smith. With unusual clarity and conviction they bore testimony, expounded the doctrines and interpreted the principles of the gospel, and bade Church members to keep the commandments of the Lord. Pronounced emphasis was given the missionary program of the Church and the intention to expand it in the immediate future?to call many men and women into missionary service, was made clear. The music of the conference seemed unusually beautiful. Relief Society was proud that a combined chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers from the stakes of the Salt Lake Region provided the music for the first two sessions. The desires of the thousands of Latter-day Saints who had so eagerly awaited this conference for the guidance and spiritual succor it might bring them were fully realized. This 116th semi-annual conference will go down in Church history as a great and blessed occasion. BSS. CHRISTMAS WISH Helen Kimball Orgill I wish I had dwelt in Bethlehem in that long ago, To greet those lonely strangers, with weary feet and slow. I wish I had been near Mary, her every wish to attend, To comfort and to love her, when needing most a friend. But these are vain desires, and never meant for me? Around are other pilgrims on life's upsurging sea. His heart is yearning over them?I hear again his plea: Ye do it to the least ones, ye do it unto me! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 Christmas in the Bible WHAT shall we do on Christmas Eve? What shall we do when the fire blazes high upon the hearth and candles flame in the window? Beyond that window, in the darkness, stars line the black arch of night. Perhaps, far away or near at hand, in the hills, modern shepherds watch their flocks by night. And here we are at home on Christmas Eve thinking about these things. There is no better way to enjoy this evening than to spend it reading the story of Christmas as it is written in the beautiful words of the Bible. Let these words be read aloud and pondered again, for there is need of their serenity and comfort?a great need for their steadfast message of hope: Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, Saying, where is he that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him (Matthew 2:1-2). These are the words of St. Matthew, telling the wonderful story of the first Christmas. And the wise men, near the end of their journey, when they had conferred with Herod in Jerusalem, "departed: and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was." The story continues, and we can almost see the starlight upon the hill road to Bethlehem, the tall camels silhouetted against the night, the city walls lighted with splendor. It is Luke who gives the exquisite description of the shepherds: And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night (Luke 2:8). Above the desert and the Dead Sea, above the desolate wilderness, safe in the coves of the hills, these shepherds watched their flocks, careful that no lamb wandered into the ravines, careful that no ewe escaped from the walls of the fold. Peaceful were the shepherds and the sheep upon the dark hills. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them. Fear not: for, behold, I bring you tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord (Luke 2:9-11). A message for all the world. Christmas as the Bible tells the story! There is no substitute for these words. Nothing can take their place. Before the waning of this Christmas Eve, read this message of the four gospels. The Christmas spirit will come to you across the gulf of time, across the interval of centuries, and there will be no boundaries of time or space. Christmas will be yours! V. P. C. And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER VII SYNOPSIS Delsa Marriott, trying to find a way to lessen the stigma when her friends will learn that she has been jilted by Hugh Temple, finds that Alec Windsor, a marine on furlough in the town, is attracted to her. She believes that she can make the people in the town think that she has been the one to break off her engagement with Hugh if she pretends to be in love with Alec, Jeff Holden, father of two motherless children, tells Delsa that he loves her, but Delsa thinks that Jeff is merely lonely for his dead wife. ON Saturday morning Delsa rose early to help her mother do the weekly wash. Sometimes, as this morning, she wished she could lie in bed, warm and safe and far from all the troubles and duties of the world about her. But the wash must be done, and her mother, strong and well as she was, could not be expected to do it alone while Delsa loafed in bed. At least, Delsa couldn't expect her mother to work while she rested, so she tossed off the covers, dressed quickly in a faded blue gingham, and went downstairs. 'The clothes will dry quickly in this sun and wind," her mother said happily. "We should be all through by ten o'clock." "Oh, if we are, Fm going for a long horseback ride," Delsa cried. "It will be wonderful up the canyon today?buds just bursting, grass so new and green!" They worked swiftly, talking of the wedding and of Alec Windsor and of all the neighbors, whose affairs seemed so much a part of their own daily lives. Long before ten, Delsa was hanging the clothes?the morning sun slanting against her brown curls, turning them to fine gold; the wind whipping her gingham dress about her slim young body. Shaking the sheets like white wings about her shoulders, Delsa gave them a little tug and laughed aloud for the sheer joy of hanging clean clothes in sunlight and wind. "That does it!" She was startled at the exclamation and turned, to see Alec Windsor on his knee at one side of her, a kodak tipped at a rakish angle, as he swiftly recorded the picture before him. "Oh, Alec!" Delsa cried, flushing, "I look a sight! Why don't you wait?" "A sight to be remembered?a sight to be recorded in koda chrome!" Alec laughed, getting up from the soft ground and coming close to her. "That was a beautiful picture, Delsa. I think, if you'll give me permission, I'll enter it in some nation-wide contest. Pick up a little money, and make the world happier at the same time." "Better sell it for advertising," Delsa mocked. "Use Sunny Monday soap chips!" "It'd make me a fortune," he said seriously. Page 761 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 He picked up the wicker clothes basket and carried it to the house for her. "What you going to do once the washing's all hung?" he asked. "Oh?nothing much, I guess,? Delsa answered. Her mother heard the question and said, "I thought you were going for a horseback ride, Delsa. Maybe Alec would like to ride, too. Do you ride, Alec?" "I?ll say," he laughed, "have you an extra horse?" "There's Hugh's horse in the barn," Mrs. Marriott went on happily, thinking she was doing Delsa and Alec and Hugh, too, a good turn. DELSA was a little annoyed. She'd planned to ride up to her's and Hugh's "thinking spot"?a big flat boulder that stuck out from the face of the hill east of the ranch, where the two had often sat and pondered on life and death and the weighty problems of youngsters and adolescents. She had wanted to be alone this morning, to think, to plan, to decide. But now she would be with Alec?maybe it would be even more pleasant. She smiled up at him. "Why don't you come with me, Alec? I can show you the whole valley from the hillside up there," and she motioned toward the east. "I can put up a few sandwiches and some cake and a thermos of milk," Mrs. Marriott went on eagerly. "It's warm enough for a picnic. You'd like that, wouldn't you. Alec? Most boys love picnics." So an hour later, Delsa on her little blue mare and Alec on Hugh's roan were climbing up through the pale green brush toward the boulder that would give them a view of the valley. When they reached the spot, Delsa dismounted and let Blue Star's reins trail. Alec swung down from Beauty's back, and came and stood beside her. The mid-day sun was warm, and Delsa took off her bandanna and let her hair blow free. "Isn't the valley lovely?" she asked. "I don't believe there's a more beautiful place in the whole wide world." Alec looked out over the scene spread below him. The valley stretched from north to south, like a long tortoise-shell cat stretched on a rock, sunning itself. The plowed farms were the dark spots on her fur; the wheat stubble the lighter blotches. Back of the sunning valley rose another chain of hills, golden in the spring sun. "Tt is lovely," Alec breathed. Delsa sat down on the boulder, and was grateful for the warmth that the sun had given it and for the peace of the position high above the world. "This is my favorite spot," she said dreamily. Alec sat down beside her, very' close. "You come here often, I guess," he said. "Whenever I can't stand the valley?but that isn't often," she murmured. "Can't stand the valley?" he asked, inviting her confidence. "Oh, you know how it is, where you know everyone and everyone knows you. Sometimes you feel that they are too close, too interested. You want to get away." "Why didn't you get a teaching AND FOR ETERNITY 763 position some other place, then?" The question was gentle. 'If it hadn't been for the war, I probably would have done so," Del-sa said musingly. "But as it was? well, you see so many parents losing their children because they have to, you don't feel like bringing that loss upon your own when it isn't necessary." "You're sweet, Delsa," Alec whispered. He picked up her hand, where it lay open beside her, and gently turned it over. The slender golden band that was Hugh's pledge to her, gleamed upon her slim brown finger; the tiny diamond glistening in the sun. Alec touched it, questioningly. "Does this mean so much to you, Delsa, that you cannot forget it for a moment?" DELSA looked down at the ring and slowly shook her head. "It is the symbol of a pledge," she said softly. Alec's voice became urgent. "If you need a symbol," he began, "the pledge must not be real to you-" "But I have the symbol," she pointed out quietly. "If I slipped it from your finger-let it roll down there among the rocks and brush below us?what of the pledge then? Delsa lifted her eyes to his and the question he had asked was repeated in the clear blue irises. Then she shook her head wonderingly. "Would it be as easy as that?" she asked softly. "Delsa!" Alec cried, "Delsa! You don't love him!" "Oh, I do! I do! I've loved him all my life long, Alec. I'll love him as long as I have life." "IT love you like that, Delsa," Alec whispered, "and I've known you only for days. Delsa, darling, I want to marry you. I want to have a little happiness ?I want something to cling to?Who knows whether your Hugh will ever come back? Who knows whether I will ever come back? You deserve happiness, Delsa. We could find it together." "Hugh must come back, some day," Delsa said, and her throat ached, knowing that when he came he would bring his wife with him, "and so must you. Alec," she added softly. "I'd want to, more than ever, if I had you to come back to." "Alec, Alec! You are pledged, too!" Alec's mouth grew hard and bitter. "Yes, I'm pledged. But when can I keep that pledge? I didn't ask Helen to marry me, just so that 1 could have the pleasure of being engaged. I wanted to be married. I hurried home to marry her. But she was gone. I may never see her again." Delsa shook her head sadly. What could she answer? She knew how he felt ?young and eager and lonely. He wanted arms about him; he wanted love. She felt strangely older than this boy beside her. She understood so well that he was crying, not to her as a sweetheart, so much as to her as a woman?a woman who could take his mother's place, and, holding him in her arms, comfort his loneliness, wipe away his fears. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 "I'd return to you, Delsa. I'd love you all my life long," he pleaded. "And after that?" she asked. "After that?" he shrugged, "Well, we take our chances." Delsa shook her head. "Not with us. Alec," she said. He looked at her, the urgency still bright in his eyes. "What do you mean?" "If you married me, Alec, it would have to be as we marry in our Church, for time and for eternity. Would you want me for eternity, Alec, if Helen were there, too, not separated by distance and time as she is here?" ALEC'S arms went about her and drew her close and his importunate lips were pressed upon her mouth. When she drew back, he said, "You love me, Delsa, I can feel it. Let's not worry about tomorrow, or the hereafter, or anything else. Let's take what we can take?we'll have that much, anyway, and nothing?neither time nor eternity?can rob us of it once it is ours." But Delsa's yielding, sympathetic mood had passed, and she withdrew from his arms, rising lithely. "We came for a picnic. Alec," she said, "Let's see what Mom put in our lunch?" She went over to Blue Star and took the canvas bag from the saddle. Alec sat moodily staring out over the valley while she laid a cloth and placed sandwiches and cake and the thermos of milk before him. He looked like an unhappy small boy, and she could not refrain from stooping as she passed him, and laying a light kiss upon his frowning brow. He looked up then, and a smile as bright as sunshine chased the dark look from his eyes. "Right!" he cried, and set to work on the lunch. Delsa laughed with him and talked lightly as they ate and later as they rode down the trail together. But she was not happy. The little dialogue there on the boulder, high above the valley, had showed her many things. What these were she couldn't tell just yet ? she would have to be alone, she would have to take out the thoughts that were so jumbled now, smooth them out, and examine them, and find out just what they meant. She didn't get an opportunity to do this until she went to her room that night. There, kneeling in her accustomed place by the window, so that she could look out and see Hugh's old window gleaming in the moonlight, she tried to think. She took Hugh's ring from her finger and looked at it. Was it true that she needed a symbol of her pledge to Hugh and his pledge to her? Was it easier for Hugh to break that pledge because he had no ring to remind him? If that was true, then the thing she had been telling herself all along was not true?that their engagement was binding as a marriage vow, that Hugh had no more right to break it than he would have to violate his marriage pledge. "Yes," she whispered at last, "I have been wrong. If we had married, Hugh and I, it would have been a sacred rite, in God's temple?a vow taken before him, and never to be broken. Our promises to each other were not the same?they required this ring, this shining diamond to remind me of them. Hugh, Hugh, AND FOR ETERNITY 765 forgive me! I know in my heart that if you had taken those other vows, you would have been true to them. It was my fault, perhaps, for not marrying you before you left. Or maybe it was so intended. But however it came to be, you were free to change, Hugh. You had that right. And you acted honorably in writing to me as you did. Oh, Hugh, I see now that I can write to you at last and release you from your promise to me." She laid her forehead against the window sill and held Hugh's ring in her hand, watching it, while the sense of being wronged and cheated slowly dissolved in her heart. I still love Hugh, she thought wonderingly, I think I love him even more than I did before. I love him so much that I want him to be happy?I don't want him to feel lost and afraid as Alec feels right now. And if that Australian girl can comfort him?if her real arms mean more to him than the memory of mine? then I want him to have them. She shook her head slowly. I hope she loves you, Hugh, truly loves you. I hope she isn't marrying you because she feels the compassion for you that I felt for Alec today-She stopped on that thought, "compassion"; then she repeated it softly, "compassion. Is that all I feel for Alec? Is that all that his need awakens in me? Compassion? Could that sustain us through time ? and through eternity?" She sat there a long time after that, looking out into the night, not even thinking. But at last she rose and went slowly across the room to her dressing table. She carefully put Hugh's ring in a small box and put this in the top drawer, and shut the drawer slowly, surely. Then she went to her bed, and the smooth white pillow was not cooler nor more quiet than her own cheek against it. (To he continued) VOLUNTEER PRICE CONTROL SERVICE THE battle to keep prices down is still going on. Strong inflationary pressures are still with us and will be until the supply of goods can catch up with the demand. Experience has taught us that the greatest danger lies ahead. The cost of living continued to rise after World War I, reaching its highest point during the months immediately following the armistice. Help is needed in preventing a recurrence of this experience. Returning servicemen and war workers seeking new jobs, as well as all other citizens, should be protected from inflation and the economic depression which inevitably follows. Relief Society women should keep informed on the latest announcements on rationing and price control which touch the lives of all of us. Relief Society members who personally wish to help may do so by offering assistance to the local Price Control Boards, or by responding when a special call is made for volunteers as tliey are needed. A few hours of time each month, spent in making price surveys at nearby stores or doing clerical work at a Board office, \\dll be of benefit. TO MAKE TWO DOLLS FROM ONE PAIR OF SOCKS Most effective if man's work sock with redtoe and heel is used. For babies use pink or blue bobby sock. 1? Cut toe off here (one inch from colored port of toe) 2?Open foot flat and cut in toward heel about three inches and sew cut edges together on wrong side. (Making the two legs.)  3?Stuff stocking with cotton. Tie 1 string just above ribbing, and another one about three inches down to form the head.  4?Double back ribbing to form cap. Catch stitch to head. Blanket stitch edge. S?Cut toe in half lengthwise. Sew cut edges on wrong side and stuff, for arms. 6-Attach arms to sides of body. 7?Embroider eyes, nose and mouth. 8?Make pompoms of bright yarn. Tie pompoms at neck, wrists and ankles. Stitch pompoms to top of cap and down front. Page 766 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 14?The Missionary System Broadened Dr. H. Wayne Diiggs For Tuesday, March 5, 1946 Objective: To develop the truth that the gospel is ours, but we must strive to carry it to others. IT is paradoxical to learn in life that often the best things we keep by giving them away. In imparting knowledge to others the teacher himself learns. By kind acts to fellow beings one gains in personal kindliness. Love itself is reciprocal. Does not God's gift of his Only Begotten Son forever draw us nearer the Eternal Father? Knowing the strength of this seeming inconsistency, the Lord has always set men's minds upon service to be rendered, rather than personal profits to be gained. "But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant" (Matt. 23:11). These were his words to the disciples. With the establishment of his kingdom in the latter days, there has come the same opportunity to serve. Hardly had the Church been organized when the call was given to Parley P. Pratt and his companions to go upon a mission to the Laman-ites (Doc. And Gov. 32). And ever since that October in the year 1830, servants of the Lord in steadily increasing numbers have gone forth to preach the gospel, only to find that they, in turn, have become more converted to the faith. Nor have there been any limits set as to the distances these present-day disciples of the Lord were to carry the message of salvation. As in the days of Peter, so now the passage reads: Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world (Matt. 28:19-20). It is good to have the comfort of the last thought the Lord gave in this injunction. He is always to be with his servants. Missionaries by the hundreds from the year 1830 to the present day have learned,. Through personal experiences, the need for such a priceless companion. The work of the elder or seventy has always been difficult. Page 767 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 Bitter opposition to the word of God has caused his servants much suffering and misery, even death.
When the first missionaries were sent to England in 1837, the forces of evil which blind the eyes of men were most dramatically made real. Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde and Willard Richards saw legions of devils and felt their physical violence. With hatred toward these brethren for the priesthood they held, and bitterness for the gospel they were to bring to the British people, the fiends of darkness assailed the missionaries. Elder Kimball was knocked senseless to the floor. He recalls the happening in these words:
I was struck with great force by some invisible power, and fell senseless to the floor. The first thing I recollected was being supported by Elders Hyde and Richards, who were praying for me . . . Elders Hyde and Richards then assisted me to get on the bed . . . when a vision was opened to our minds, and we could distinctly see the evil spirits, who foamed and gnashed their teeth at us. We gazed upon them about an hour and a half (by Willard's watch). We were not looking towards the window, but towards the corner of the room. Elder Richards finally saw the devils coming with their legions, who came towards us like armies rushing to battle. They appeared to be men of full stature, possessing every form and feature of men in the flesh who are angry and desperate; and I shall never forget the vindictive malignity depicted on their countenances as they looked me in the eye; . . . We distinctly heard those spirits talk and express their wrath and hellish designs against us. However, the Lord delivered us from them, and blessed us exceedingly that day (Doc. and Cov. Commentary, page 634; ORSON F. WHITNEY, Life of Heber C. Kimball, page 144).
The majority of the missionaries who have gone forth on their good tidings, while not encountering such exceptional experiences with the spirit world, have, nevertheless, seen the flames of hatred for God's work in the eyes of ill-informed men and women. The malice planted in their hearts by the adversary in the case of some nonbelievers has led to overt acts of violence. To be a Mormon missionary at times has meant not to be sure of life itself.
There is a love for the truth, however, which makes men brave. One day, they know, every soul must acknowledge Christ. This it is, among other things, that keeps those who have accepted the good word forever trying. The express command from the Lord, too, that his word must be preached puts an obligation upon the Church to have elders abroad in missionary service.
As we have followed the history of the saints from Palmyra to Salt Lake Valley, often amid their most dire trials has come the call for men to leave their homes and go abroad to preach the gospel. Through the service of home missionaries within the missions and the stakes of Zion, hundreds of faithful Latter-day Saints, not called up on to devote all their time to preaching the gospel, are also spending many hours seeking out the honest in heart. A steadily increasing number of converts are thus coming into the Church through these laborers. Even the recruiting of the Mormon Battalion in the year 1846 was not without its missionary service. Just so, today, our boys abroad in the armed forces are in the most real sense bearers of the truth. Their lives, when held in line with the teachings of the Church, will add to the glory of the latter-day work. 
LESSON DEPARTMENT 769 Before giving a few excerpts from the journals of early missionaries of the Church, let us look at the names and dates of the major missions opened over the earth, since Elder Heber C. Kimball and his companions first went to the British Isles in 1837. Most of this work*of the gathering of Israel was underway before the turn of the century in 1900. There are two dates before 1837 which should be mentioned again. One is 1830, which marks the first mission of all which was the one to the Lamanites. Oliver Cowdery, Parley P. Pratt, and Ziba Peterson were sent at that time. Six years later. Elder Pratt and others opened the mission to Canada. Orson Hyde went to Palestine in 1841; Noah Rogers and others to the Society Islands in 1844; and Erastus Snow to Scandinavia in 1850. Four other missions were opened in this same year, the French by John Taylor, the Italian by Lorenzo Snow, the Swiss by T. B. H. Stenhouse, and the Hawaiian by George Q. Cannon and companions. The following year three other countries were added to the foregoing fields: South America by Parley P. Pratt; Australia by John Murdock and Charles W. Wandell; and India. In 1853, Elders Jesse Haven, Leonard Smith and William Walker went to South Africa. In 1854 AA Zealand was opened; in 1861 the Netherlands, in 1888 Samoa, and in 1901 President Heber J. Grant opened the Japanese field. The harvest was ripe during the beginning years of the missionary work of the Restored Church. Parley P. Pratt records in his journal the following concerning the number of saints to leave England for Zion: Between the middle of September [1840] and my own embarkation in October, I chartered three vessels for New Orleans and filled them with the migrating Saints viz.: The 'Sidney/ with one hundred and eighty souls; the 'Medford/ with two hundred and fourteen souls; and the 'Henry,' with one hundred and fifty-seven. I next chartered the 'Emerald' on which I placed about two hundred and fifty passengers, including myself and family (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 361). Next to England, no field has been more fruitful than the Scandinavian. For a glimpse of the early mission encounters in that vineyard one may well turn to the journal of Andrew Jenson who served for many years as assistant Church historian. He relates this experience on the island of Mors in the province of Jutland, Denmark, under the date of July 1874. Bitter opposition had been encountered by the missionaries there before the incident here given was recorded. It was on a Friday evening that the two missionaries met on the Nykjobing wharf, and instead of putting up in the little city, they struck out in the country at once. Night found them in the village of Jorsby, ten miles to the north, where they found friends who kept them over night. Early the next morning the house, in which they had slept, was approached by a crowd of fishermen hailing from the west coast of Jutland. They had been out on the fjord fishing, but a storm had compelled them to seek shelter for a day or so in the village, which was situated on the east coast of the island. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 These men were known to be a rough set, and when the owner of the house where the missionaries stopped saw them approaching in their long watertight boots, their short jackets and heads covered with huge fishermen's storm caps, he felt alarmed, fearing that they came for the purpose of ill-treating his guests; and so expressed himself to them, but the young Utah elder told him not to fear, as nobody would get hurt. A loud rap on the door, a response of "vaer saa god" (please step in), and in filed a dozen or more strong, weather-beaten sailors, who immediately introduced themselves in their own peculiar way by saying that they had come out of pure curiosity to see the man from Utah, whom they had been informed stopped at the house. "Then I am perhaps the man you look for," said the young elder, as he rose from the table and shook hands with them all. "I shall be pleased to answer any proper question you may wish to put to me concerning Utah and her people" (Autobiography of Andrew Jenson, page 75). The distant travels of Elder George Q. Cannon to the Hawaiian people in the year 1850 opened one of the most colorful chapters in the story of missionary endeavor of the Church. It was the Book of Mormon, the greatest of missionary aids, that so often comforted Elder Cannon and his companions just as it has done hundreds of others of the Lord's servants. From his writings entitled "My First Mission," chapters 12 and 16, the following excerpts are taken: Before I commenced holding regular meetings, I had plenty of time for meditation, and to review all the events of my short life, and to think of the beloved home from which I was so far separated. It was then that I found the value of the Book of Mormon. It was a book which I always loved. But I learned there to appreciate it as I had never done before. If I felt inclined to be lonely, to be low spirited, or homesick, I had only to turn to its sacred pages to receive consolation, new strength and a rich out-pouring of the Spirit Scarcely a page that did not contain encouragement for such as I was. The salvation of man was the great theme upon which its writers dwelt, and for this they were willing to undergo every privation and make every sacrifice. What were my petty difficulties compared with those afflictions which they had to endure? If I expected to share the glory for which they contended, I could see that I must labor in the same spirit. If the sons of King Mosiah could relinquish their high estate, and go forth among the degraded Lamanites to labor as they did, should not I labor with patience and devoted zeal for the salvation of these poor red men, heirs of the same promise? Let me recommend this book, therefore, to young and old, if they need comfort and encouragement. Especially can I recommend it to those who are away from home on missions. No man can read it, partake of its spirit and obey its teachings, without bein" filled with a deep love for the souls of men and a burning zeal to do all in his power to save them.... The conversations, which I had with the natives concerning the Book of Mormon and the origin of the red men, made them anxious to see it. "It is truly surprising how soon the work of translation began. The first elders landed at Honolulu in December, 1850. Not long afterwards Elder Cannon deeply desiring to know the language had the gift of interpretation given to him. His progress in the new tongue must have been rapid, for in less than two months he was beginning to put the record of the Nephites before some of their descend ants. He writes: 'In the last days of the month of January, 1851, I commenced the work of translation. My fellow laborers, the elders, encouraged me, and from the First Presidency at home ?Presidents Young, Kimball and Richards?came words of cheer, approving of what I was doing, and counseling me to persevere.' "Naturally this work of translation could be only a part of the missionary work. Preaching, explaining the doctrines, meeting the opposition raised against them by Christian ministers, baptizing, traveling from place to place, administering to the sick, all had their time and place. LESSON DEPARTMENT 771In reference to his work after returning to Wailuku, where he had first found a friendly reception, and from which place he had removed to save his friend, J. H. Napela, from the persecution of the Presbyterian minister, who had so bitterly opposed the work, Elder Cannon writes: ?The preaching of the gospel created great excitement; the people came by hundreds to hear the testimony, and I had the satisfaction of seeing the missionary who had treated me so badly and who had so bitterly opposed and lied about the work, almost deserted by his congregation; they having left his church to hear us preach and see us baptize.... We baptized a large number of people at Wailuku and the adjacent towns, erected a large meeting-house at that place and smaller ones at the other villages, and organized large and flourishing branches of the Church!' " (Joseph J. Cannon, "George A. Cannon," Instructor, October '44, pages 456-458). Though the darkening shadow of war robbed the world of nearly all but home missionaries, yet the day will come again when the elders of Israel will resume their efforts to carry the gospel to the nations of the world. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. Discuss the work of the seventies in relation to the missionary program of the Church (See Doc. And Cov. 107:25). 2. Have class members who are familiar with missionary work conducted at centers such as Temple Square, Hill Cumorah, etc., tell what they know of this work. 3. It has been said that once a person is a Mormon he is always a Mormon. Though this is not entirely true, there is enough basis for fact in it to cause one to ask?Why." Discuss this question. 4. As a people we are ever ready to explain our faith to others. Why? Read the word of the Lord to three of the early members of the Church and note the one charge he gave to all of them (Doc. And Cov. 4; 6:1-9; 11). 5. Read Doc. And Cov. 46:1-7. Note the attitude of the Lord toward him who is seeking the way of life. 6. Have class members who have filled missions, including home missions, relate interesting missionary experiences. For home study suggest the reading of the missionary experiences of Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon, and Jacob Hamblin. (See Three Mormon Classics, compiled by Preston Nibley, available at Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10. (Price $2.50 postpaid). The published missionary experiences of other Church leaders will be equally appropriate for home study. Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 6~Charity Rejoiceth in the Truth Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, March 5, 1946 Objective: To show that one who is truly charitable rejoiceth in the truth. We do not always rejoice in the truth?in a knowledge of things as they were, and as they shall be. Sometimes the truth is embarrassing, if not humiliating to us. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 We are reluctant to admit our  mistakes of the past; to acknowledge our circumstances in the present; or to foresee clearly the consequences of our present behavior in the future. "All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes" says one of the proverbs of the Bible. Love of self encourages us to protect ourselves with repeated coatings of self-justification. If a neighbor casts a reflection on us or on the behavior of our children, we are inclined to pass judgment on the neighbor by thinking of his ill-rendered deeds or those of his children rather than to weigh, in the light of truth, the reflection cast on us by the neighbor. Even in our efforts to improve people, we must begin by accepting them for what they are. A weary mother frequently rebels against the unceasing, and often destructive and mischievous behavior of her children. When she does, she is but heaping coals upon the fire. Her opportunity to influence her children is to realize the truth that they were born to function; that activity is the normal characteristic of personality; and that her only course is to guide their activity into wholesome and creative channels. Three positive attitudes are open to us toward the truth, (i) We can know the truth. This is an important and necessary step in any satisfactory relationship with it. Yet, this is not enough, for we may know the truth but ignore or even oppose it. (2) We can act in conformity with truth. (3) We can love the truth and rejoice in it. This is the highest relation man can have to truth. To live in harmony with the principles of the gospel, not from intellectual assent nor from obedience alone, but from love, is to rejoice in the truth. Charity?which "vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, seeketh not her own"?is free to rejoice in the truth. And only he who has the charity that "rejoiceth in the truth" is truly free. Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 6?Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Fiction * Dr. Howard R. Drigg's For Tuesday, March 19, 1946 NOVELS came not many years after the invention of the printing press. Prior to the development of this means of spreading literature far and wide, folk were limited to myths, fairy stories, legends, told orally about the firesides. LESSON DEPARTMENT 773 Sometimes these, woven together  
round a hero, would become a national epic, to be passed on, usually in verse form, down the years. Printing expanded the opportunity for the creation and distribution of not only verse but of fictional stories in prose.
With the drama banned by the Puritans in Cromwell's day, a natural demand had come for some substitute of dramatic cast. Fiction was the answer. It is closely allied to the drama. Indeed, many of our best plays are based on good novels. Any well-written story may be changed to a drama mainly by just eliminating the descriptive parts and by using scenery and costume, with a few stage directions, in their stead. The dialogue is, of course, given by the characters in the play.
All that might be said as to the qualities that mark an effective drama, applies with equal force to the novel. If it is to grip and hold the reader, it must have action centered in a well-defined plot, and characters of impelling, individual interest. If the story is to live and last for good, it must leave a wholesome effect in the mind and heart of the reader.
Practically all our best novels reveal, directly or indirectly, the influence of the Bible. This is particularly true of those that have won and held folk of varied classes through the years. Outwardly, this influence is shown in allusions, in lines of scripture, and in themes taken directly from Holy Writ. Inwardly, it is revealed by characters with admirable qualities and by the general tone and uplift of the story.
Spiritual growth in characters that
trayed. In Robinson Crusoe*, sometimes called the first of our novels, Defoe has the shipwrecked hero, alone on an island, tell simply and frankly of his forward steps from a life "without religious foundation at all" to one of abiding faith and devotion to God. His conversion began with finding, on the lonely isle, some growing grain like that he had known in his old homeland. Touched by the discovery, Crusoe felt it to be a gift from God. Later, opening the Bible he had saved from the wrecked ship, he found these lines, "Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Then he began to offer thanks for his food, and pray daily for protection and guidance. The Sabbath he had lost was restored to his calendar; and, finally, when the man Friday came into his life, Robinson Crusoe prayed for wisdom to bring the gospel light into the mind and heart of the poor slave.
Another classic novel created in later years, Silas Marner by George Eliot, portrays a similar bringing of a lost soul back into the light. It gives concrete meaning to the Biblical line, "A little child shall lead them." Shocked by the perfidy of a trusted companion, Silas had withdrawn from the world and sunk into bitterness. Then, robbed of his hoard of gold, he was plunged into utter despair, until golden-haired little Eppie came strangely into his home and heart. Gradually the little child led him back to a richer, more religious life.
*Studied in Relief Society Literature course, 1938-39; See Relief Society Magazine, August 1938, page 501; September 1938, page 634. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 Still another story, which has won and held the hearts of countless folk, is The Tale of Two Cities by Dickens. Its central theme may be found in these precious words of the Savior: "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." Sidney Carton makes this supreme sacrifice to save a friend, to protect the happiness of those he loves. And as he goes nobly to his death at the guillotine, these divine words sustain and comfort him: I am the resurrection and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die (John 2: 25-26). In addition to the many novels which, like the last two named, have at heart a Biblical theme, there are others which more openly announce and portray such themes. One of these, classic in its qualities, is Ben Hur?A Tale of the Christ by Lew Wallace. With master stroke, the author brings back the life and times of the Savior. In Book I?a prelude ?we are brought closer to the story of the birth of the Savior, with vivid descriptions of the shepherds and other humble folk of Judea. We are also made to feel in the story of the Wise Men who followed the star to find the Christ Child, the depth and significance of the Messianic hope. In Book II, we first meet Ben Hur, a young Jew of high birth, and Messala, a young Roman. As children, the two had been playmates. Now, with different training, the one in Jerusalem, the other in Rome, they had reached young manhood with different ideals firmly set. A tragic accident brings the two into their first clash. Ben Hur, unjustly charged with trying to kill a Roman official, is condemned to be a galley slave. At the beginning of his trouble, he is given a first brief contact with Jesus of Nazareth. Crowded years that follow bring him?and the reader?close to dramatic events and scenes, not only on a galley ship, but in regal Rome, in Arabia, and finally back to Jerusalem, where Ben Hur at last finds his king, the Savior of mankind. Just one excerpt from this masterful novel can be given here to illustrate how the story of the Master is made to live again. After a portrayal of the life of the lowly shepherds of Judea, in person and in spirit, we can see one Of them on watch before the sheepfold on the Holy Night when Christ was born. Faithfully he performs his duty until midnight, then? His task was done; now for the dreamless sleep with which labor blesses its wearied children! He moved toward the fire, but paused; a light was breaking around him, soft and white, like the moon's. He waited breathlessly. The light deepened; things before invisible came to view.... A chill sharper than that of the frosty air?a chill of fear?smote him. He looked up; the stars were gone; the light became a splendor. Then in terror he cried, "Awake! Awake!" Up sprang the dogs, and howling ran away. The herds rushed together, bewildered. The men clambered to their feet, weapons in hand. "What is it?" they asked in one voice. "See!" cried the watchman, "the sky is on fire!" Suddenly the light became intolerably bright and they covered their eyes, and dropped upon their knees; then as their souls shrank with fear, they would have died had not a voice said unto them, ?Fear not!? And they listened. "Fear not: for behold I bring unto you good tidings of great joy, which shall be unto all people." For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Savior which is Christ the Lord."
This is just one author's way of bringing a dramatic event closer to us. As with different painters who have taken this and other Biblical subjects for portrayal, various writers make their different word pictures. Yet the basic scene remains ever the same.
Within more recent times, we have been given other novels based on the life of the Savior. One of these, The Robe by Lloyd Douglas, has lately won acclaim. Whether it will hold its present popularity remains to be seen. The story, told in more informal, more modern style than Ben Hur, still has many points of similarity with that earlier novel, particularly in its portrayal of Romans, Jews, and Greeks, who provide leading characters for the creative work.
In the Gospel of Saint John, the author found lines which touch the heart of the theme. "They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots" (John 19:24).
This robe, a simple, brown, homespun one, worn by the Savior when he was taken to be crucified, fell by lot to Marcellus, the Roman leader who had carried through the execution of Jesus. Unwillingly and drunkenly, he had performed as a soldier the cruel duty of crucifying one whom he felt was innocent. Later, at a banquet with icering Roman companions, Marcellus had donned the sacred robe. Suddenly something of ill came over him; he
watchful care of his servant Demetrius, he was taken here and there in the hope he might be restored to normal life again.
Among those with whom Marcellus was brought into contact, was the Greek Stephenos, or Stephen, who afterward became a martyr for the Christian faith. Stephen, shown the sacred robe, was touched into a train of memories of the Savior. "He wore it," said Stephen, "when he healed the sick and comforted the sorrowing . . . when he spoke to the multitudes as no man has ever spoken. He wore it when he wept by the cross to die?for me, a humble weaver! . . . and for you (Marcellus)?a wealthy Tribune!?and for you (Demetrius)?a slave."
Stephen went on to accuse Marcellus of the death of the Savior. Demetrius tried to stop the earnest Christian, but Marcellus commanded that Stephen proceed.
"You did not know what you were doing," he continued, "and you are sorry. . . You, Tribune Marcellus, can make amends for what you have done! He forgave you. I was there. . . . Make friends with him! He is alive! I have seen him! Marcellus did make friends with our Lord. He saw, unable to prevent it, the cruel stoning of Stephen, with the then unconverted, scornful Saul looking on. Through a series of such soul-shaping experiences and faith-promoting incidents, the Robe of Tribune was transformed and restored. At last he and his beloved wife Diana found life everlasting through their Savior and King.
Another outstanding recent novel, Joseph in Egypt by Thomas Mann, turns a masterpiece of the Bible to a vital purpose. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 The story of Joseph, sold by his brothers, his life in Egypt in the rich historical and social setting of those long ago times, is portrayed. For the presentation of such a theme with telling effect, the Bible provides basic materials of dramatic cast. Through the more than two centuries since our first prose fiction began to appear, novel after novel, directly or indirectly linked with the Bible, has been printed. Naturally, most of these creations have had brief lives. Others, touching classic heights, have persisted through the years. Some short stories that have certainly won and held place in our hearts are: The Other Wise Man by Henry VanDyke; and A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens; "J" Valjean and the Bishop," from Les Miserables, by Victor Hugo; A Man Without a Country, by Edward Eve-ret Hale. All these stories in rhythmically beautiful prose, vibrate with true Christian spirit. Hundreds of other creations of like uplift and helpfulness have been created. Many of the stories make no outward mention of the Bible, yet in the actions and the words of the characters they lead the reader to admire and love, one feels true charity, brotherhood, honesty, virtue, and other qualities characteristic of the true follower of the Master. Added to these types of fictional stories, are many that are created just to give good cheer, to open our eyes to beautiful things in nature, to help us appreciate friends and even strangers who come into our midst. Such stories are in tune with the gospel of goodness and happiness. We need mental and spiritual sunshine to fit us for the sterner hours of life. What is required most is a cultivated sense of selection. Far too much of our fiction just preys upon unthinking folk with tales unfit to read?stories that are simply sensational pictures of perturbed lives ending in nothingness. Dissipation of time and precious emotional energy, rather than recreation, ls the main reward of such novels. **But," someone will ask, "how can a choice selection of fictional stories be made?" Here are a few simple tests that may prove helpful: 1. Does the novel ring true to life and true to truth? 2. Are its characters and its scenes and conversation such as might be introduced with uplift into the home circle? 3. Is it written in language that is both picturesque and rhythmic? Does it lend itself to oral reading? 4. Does it promote faith, courage, cheer, strength of character, practical Christianity? If the story in large measure brings these positive results for good, then it is Bible-inspired. Many of our great authors have acknowledged openly their indebtedness to the Bible; none more impressively than Sir Walter Scott. In the closing hours of his life, this great writer turned to a beloved friend with a request for a book. "Which book?" said the friend. "Need you ask," came the reply; "there is but one." Discussion and Activities 1. (a) What are the outward differences between a drama and a novel? How are they essentially alike? (b) What are some qualities that the play and the novel must have to make them worth time? 2. (a) Be ready to answer the roll call LESSON DEPARTMENT 777 of your class with the name of a novel whose title, theme, or spiritual qualities give evidence that it was Bible-inspired. (b) What type of novel, even though there may be no such evidence of its connection with the Bible, still may bring good into our lives? How? 3. (a) Give two reasons why we must cultivate in these days a better sense of selection for created stories, (b) Name one novel or short story which you are willing to defend as not only wholesome but interesting. 4. What is meant by this suggestion: Novels that live and last for most folk are factually sound, true to life, and spiritually wholesome. 5. What can be done to cultivate a taste for choice, wholesome stories?by the home; by the school; by the church? Think in this connection of the following suggestions: a?Voicing good literature round the fireside. B?Occasional "story hours" for home socials. C?Encouraging creative authorship in the schools. D?Co-operating with the librarian in providing choice books. Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 12?Morals in Marriage and Family Relationships Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, March 26, 1946 Lesson Link: Last month's discussion centered around some of the social and moral problems of modern woman. It was shown that the trend toward woman's emancipation has resulted in some confusion and considerable immorality, but that it may also mean a real opportunity for moral development. There have been tendencies on the part of many women to prostitute their sex for the sake of personal advantage, which is a betrayal of both equality and morality. Woman's power over man is profound, and because of this she is given the special responsibility of guarding and guiding the moral advance of all mankind. Lesson aim: To analyze our most basic social institution from the standpoint of moral conduct, listing some of the common faults, and pointing out some of the principles necessary for correction. MARRIAGE is the gateway to family life, and the family is the very hub of social existence. It is here that people are most intimate, most impressionable to the influence of others, and most happy when things are going well. It is here that character is formed. But, despite the fact that the family is the most primary and the most basic of all social institutions, it is in trouble; and one reason for this trouble is the moral degeneration spoken of in earlier lessons. Family stability depends upon moral integrity, and moral integrity depends upon family stability. The two are interrelated, and any deterioration in one will cause a breakdown in the other, which in turn will reinfect the first, so that the two will become locked in a vicious circle of decay and disorganization. And this is exactly what has been happening. For the sake of character we must preserve the family, and for the sake of the family we must preserve character. It is to this end that the present lesson is written.
Pre-Marriage Ethics
The period of boy-girl adjustments prior to marriage is usually spoken of as courtship. Here we have a whole series of experimental friendships, personality testings, and habit adjustments. The primary purpose of courtship is preparation for marriage; preparation through interchange, choice, and adjustment.
Since courtship is essentially a relationship involving two or more persons, it follows that this relationship in which the setting of each is forever kept in mind, and immoral where either one or both become selfish and exploitive in their attitudes and procedures. A successful date from the moral point of view is one that is mutually enriching. In order to save space we will forego any detailed analysis of this problem and will simply list, with brief comment, some of the most common deviations from moral courtship:
(1) Poor sportsmanship. Many young people are too immature and infantile in their behavior, too easily hurt, too quick to take offense. Instead of being broad-minded and considerate of their partner they remain unreasonably jealous and selfcentered; instead of respecting the personality and moral standards of the other, they coax, tease, banter, drink, or indulge in other ways.
Many young people are too selfish. They should take themselves less seriously, develop a sense of humor, and at all times be considerate.
(2) Discourtesy. Frequently, too, courtship is filled with the crudities and discourtesies that mark immaturity and selfishness in personality. Being loud or boisterous in public, slovenly or crude in dress or manners, profane or vulgar in conversation, means being cheap and offensive. Furthermore, bragging about other dates and flirting with others while on a date are extremely discourteous, as are also other means of embarrassing or offending the partner. Those who court should be more gentlemanly and ladylike than they sometimes are, more cultured and refined, more considerate, more courteous.
(3) Dishonesty. Some people seem to take pride in being a "man of many loves," in adding broken hearts to their score as the Indians used to add scalps to their belts. This, of course, is usually accomplished by insincere flattery (sometimes called "a line") along with dishonest behavior designed to lead the other person on. But it is wrong. The price of such deceit and betrayal is human sorrow as deep as any ever known. Love should not be treated as a plaything.
(4) Intimacy. The problem of unchastity was discussed in an earlier lesson, but there are intimacies short of that which also need attention. Kissing, embracing, and fondling are often indulged in for the sake of a passing thrill, or in order to "pay" for a date. Aside from the danger of lost control leading to "pay" for a date. Aside from the able experimentation often cheapens sex, spoils love, and conditions the participants against successful marriage. LESSON DEPARTMENT 779 Moderation, reserve, self-control, and above all the feeling of mutual responsibility, should supplant these widespread practices of reckless indulgences and selfish exploitations in the field of intimate conduct. There are other offenses against morality in courtship practice; "gold-digging," for example, and "going steady" for personal convenience without serious intent or with little concern for the consequences. But perhaps this is enough to illustrate and to show that selfishness, in no matter what form it may take, is basically immoral, for it corrodes our souls and brings sorrow to our loved ones. The Ethics of Family Relationships This is even more true in marriage than it is in courtship, for the relationship of marriage is so much more intimate, emotional, and continual. Upon entering marriage, each person makes certain pledges and accepts certain risks and responsibilities. Where the responsibilities are ignored and the pledges broken, as they often are, others are wronged and made to suffer. Marriage is a co-operative adventure and without co-operation it fails. Following are some of the common ways in which husband and wife sometimes wrong each other: (1) quarreling, nagging, and bickering continually; (2) holding grudges, bringing up the past, refusing to forgive; (3) bossing, taking unfair advantage, refusing to give in or admit you are wrong; (4) intimidating, belittling, or disparaging the mate in public; (5) sulking, crying, or having temper tantrums in order to get your own way; (6) using money, sex favors, or other power devices to control your partner or inveigle favors from him; (7) taking your mate for granted and making uncompensated demands for money, or favors; (8) expecting and demanding that love be continually demonstrated by sentimental expressions, expensive presents, and the like; (9) living a parasitic life? such as the wife sleeping until noon, leaving the house dirty spending most of her time in social clubs, et cetera; or the husband failing to provide, neglecting responsibility for the children, et cetera; (10) being dishonest and untrue by lying, "stepping out" on the mate, or even committing adultery; (11) taking marriage lightly, and then using divorce as a means of escape. The list is not complete, but it is suggestive. Lewis M. Terman, recently studied the marriage grievances of 792 couples and found, out of a list of fifty-seven grievances, the ten greatest for both husband and wife to be as follows, ranked in the order of their seriousness: Grievances of Husbands nags me not affectionate selfish and inconsiderate complains too much interferes with hobbies W. Slovenly in appearance W. Quick-tempered W. Interferes with my discipline W. Conceited W. Insincere Grievances of Wives H. Selfish and inconsiderate H. Unsuccessful in business H. Untruthful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 H. Complains too much H. Does not show his affection H. Does not talk things over H, harsh with children H. Touchy H. No interest in children H. Not interested in home The great importance of a co-operative attitude and the spirit of fair play between husband and wife can easily be seen from this study. Where people selfishly, or even dishonestly, attempt to turn the privileges of marriage to their own advantage and to exploit other members of the family, love has gone arid marriage has failed. Only in the atmosphere of sacrifice, co-operation, and mutual enrichment can the love that was kindled in courtship endure and mature into a bond of eternal companionship. But the parent-child relationships in the family are equally important to those between husband and wife; in fact, from the point of view of character building and future morality, they are even more important. Here are some of the ways in which parents are sometimes unwise and unethical in their dealings with children: (1) setting poor examples for them, failing to realize that actions speak louder than words, leaving the home atmosphere clouded and soiled; (2) providing inadequate training and guidance, neglecting rather than protecting, failing to meet the needs of the children in sex education, permitting them to engage in unwholesome employment and/or leisure time activities; (3) bossing the children as if they were property, using discipline that is too harsh and cruel, not giving them enough rights and personality freedom; (4) rejecting their children, being hateful and antagonistic toward them, letting them starve for wan, t of love, affection, and emotional security; (5) over-protecting their children, pouring too much affection over them, giving them too many favors, spoiling them. This list also could be extended, but it is sufficient as it stands to illustrate. And here, too, the key to moral relationships is love, co-operation, helpfulness. Post-family Adjustments While the Latter-day Saint family ties are sealed for the eternities, family units, as such, do not remain intact in this life. There are essentially two processes in the changes which may come to a given family: (1) the process of children marrying and moving away, and (2) the process of death and widowhood. We will discuss each of these briefly in turn. The time of "the empty nest" is difficult for most parents to face and adjust to, for the struggles and satisfactions incident to child rearing have become a part of their lives and they quite naturally are reluctant to see them go. But though the reluctance is natural, any interference with this normal and inevitable process is unnatural, and likely to lead into trouble. Some parents make the mistake, consciously or unconsciously, of trying to hold on to their children at this time, spoiling them with affection and favors, or interfering with their courtship so that they won't marry and move away. The last or youngest child in the family is particularly susceptible to interference and spoiling of this sort. Sometimes parents, in their desire to hold on, will interfere and 
attempt to control the lives of their children and their children's families after marriage; and this, of course, is a calamity when it happens.
Still other parents, although successful in letting go of their children, will give up to melancholy and will pine away the rest of their lives in lonesomeness. All of these reactions are mistakes. Parents should plan for the time when they can be relieved of some of the responsibility of family care, so that when it comes they can fill their years full of interesting, creative activity. And parents should learn how to enjoy their children as adults, and their grandchildren and great-grandchildren as they come along. With a little better understanding and a little more effort, in-lay relationships could be much more pleasant and enriching than they are now.
Bereavement; and subsequent adjustment, after the death of a marriage partner is the common experience of nearly half of the married population. Since women live two or three years longer than men on the average, and usually marry men who are two or three years older than themselves to start with, there are many more widows than there are widowers. Statistically speaking, most women can expect to be a widow for four or five years of their lifetime.
It is wisdom, then, to expect this crisis; and by planning and preparing for it, to make it as easy and comfortable as possible. With proper forethought and thrift the financial hazard of widowhood can be largely eliminated. With an understanding of widowhood can appreciation of eternal life, the pe-
riod of mourning can be made considerably easier. While the memory of the deceased should be held in reverence, no good results from continuous mourning. There should come a time of optimism and cheerfulness when life will go on much as before. For the young, remarriage might be the best solution; for the old, memory, activity, and dreams for the future.
A Word About the Spinster
Approximately one-tenth of our adult population never marries, and many of these through no fault of their own. Generally speaking, the males who never marry are those who are disqualified on the basis of some defect (physical, mental, social, or moral); while, as a rule, the females that remain single are those of intellect and ability who have not been willing to take any man that came along in order to marry, or who have made themselves less attractive to the opposite sex. They have waited too long by entering a career or going on for higher education. World War II, with the delays and the casualties it involves, will mean that even more older and high calibered women will never have the opportunity of marriage.
While the bachelor has adjustment problems as well as does the spinster, it is the unmarried girl who presents the biggest social and moral problem. She is less independent; more the victim of circumstances, and more sensitive to her condition than is the male. And what is more, she usually has higher character and is in a better position to influence the character of others.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER 1945 Another outstanding recent restlessness, resentment, failure, inferiority, frustration, and defeat that the spinster so often experiences are enough sometimes to disorganize her personality and cause her to turn antisocial. She has a sense of loneliness and isolation that somehow keeps her apart from the rest of society, and often, too, she is a target for social ridicule. No wonder so many become nervous, irritable, sour; no wonder a few become psychopathic, homosexual, criminalistic. Fortunately, they are not all like this; a great many are entirely successful in turning their emotional and material drives into other channels, in living happy lives, and in making real contributions to society. But all who are required by circumstances to remain single should be helped to realize that marriage is only a part of life and that, though it is a very desirable part, if it can't be realized, life does not need to lose its meaning nor purpose because of the fact. Social work, nursing, school teaching, or similar work can help substitute for motherhood and in this way happiness can be found and life's purposes fulfilled. Adjustment can be made, and in a moral way. And Finally In concluding this lesson let it be said again that world morality depends quite basically upon marriage and family stability, and that family stability in turn depends fundamentally upon morality. It is the atmosphere or climate of the home that shapes the characters of men, and it is of such things as honesty, responsibility, and love that this climate is composed. Problems for Thought and Action Note: In treating the pre-marriage, marriage and post-marriage, and unmarried stages or phases of family phenomena, this lesson is rather long. If the class leader finds too much material here for one period it might be well to choose that part of the lesson that most closely fits the age and marital status of most class members, and then focus on that. 1. Show how morals and family stability are interrelated. 2. Consider the four points discussed under "Pre-marriage Ethics," give examples of each, and discuss the various moral implications. Can you name other types of unethical behavior in courtship? Why is selfishness so much a part of them all? 3. Do the same for the various points under "The Ethics of Family Relationships" as you did in problem 2 above. What significance does Terman's study have to the problem of morale and happiness in marriage? Discuss. Show why co-operation is important in parent-child relationships as well as in those between husband and wife. 4. How does the reluctance on the part of parents to have an "empty nest" explain their occasional interference in the courtship of younger children and sometimes in the married lives of other children? Show why this is a mistake. How can parents be happy in old age after the children have gone? Why are there so many more widows than widowers? Make helpful suggestions on the problem of adjusting to widowhood. 5. What percentage of the adult population never marries? Why are spinsters usually of a higher quality than bachelors? Why is the problem of the unmarried woman more serious than that of the unmarried man? Name some of the most common adjustment problems of the spinster and make suggestions for solving them. Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Proverbs 22:6; Ephesians 5:22-33; 6:1-4. Writings by L. D. S. Authors: Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr., "Our Home," The Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 27 (December 1940), pages 801-810. Talmage, James E., The Vitality of LESSON DEPARTMENT 783 Mormonism (Boston: Gorham Press, 1919), "Not Good for Man to be Alone," pages 220-233. Smith, Joseph Fielding, The Way to Perfection (Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1935), "The Perfect Marriage Covenant," pages 240-259. Bennion, Milton, Moral Teachings oi the New Testament (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret Book Co., 1929), "Marriage, Divorce, and Sexual Sins," pages 183-197. Address to the Members of Relief Society (Concluded from page 721) things the Lord had forbidden his people to use, say, "I will not defile my body with these things." Hold your standards high. Happiness will be the result; the higher the standards, the greater the happiness. God grant when he gathers his jewels that our mothers, wives and daughters, those who have worthily represented womankind in the world, may find themselves rewarded by a glorious welcome home to enjoy the sweet companionship in eternal happiness of those that they have lived with right here upon this earth. And in conclusion I pray that the spirit, the peace and the love of our Heavenly Father may continue to abide with you, my dear sisters, forever, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. DISHES Alice Morrey Bailey Take the cup, you naughty doll! Don't knock it off and break it! Don't put your whole hand in. Can't you play they aren't tin? I washed last night, and night before. My turn to wipe tonight. No, Mother. We're not quarreling. Oh, Gee! Oh, well! All right! He?someone?called me to the gate. Why can't I have some fun? We? talked?'but can I help it if the dishes aren't done? Tom and I will do them, Mother. Isn't he domestic? The way he puts them on the shelves! He really is artistic. Come, girls, and put the forks around by every shining plate. Wash for dinner, boys. I hope your father isn't late. Polish all the silverware. Cet out the glass and lace. It's just as well for Anna's beau to realize his place. Thanksgivings, weddings, Christmases] It's nice to get together But pots and pans are all the same in any kind of weather. Now I've learned to curb my tongue, my violent wants and wishes. Can it be I'm all alone with memories?and dishes? PEACE Christie Lund Coles Christmas Day These who have walked in ravaged, war-torn places, Have known the quivering fear, the aching sense Of insecurity, the blanched, wan faces, The futility of man's bitter defense Against his fellow. They know at last That this dark, troubled path is not the way The heart of man would go. Searching the past, He seeks the miracle recalled today. He seeks the answer and the soft echo Of the hope long hid in his mind's keeping: These bells of Christmas ringing through the snow, The story told again to a world, weeping; The promise by the herald angels spoken-Peace for each searching soul, each heart broken. What is Peace? What is the peace the star led men toward. Over the silent land, the greening hill. Where shepherds watched and quiet night, deep-starred, Knew yet another luminous star, to fill The earth with light and herald angels' song; That brought his life to stand against a world Consuming itself by its iniquity. Peace must be nurtured in the human heart Where his great love and mercy planted it, Must grow as man grows, man's must be the part To make reality of holy writ, That he may speak again, still promising That love is all and some day shall be king. Page 784 MUSIC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara).15 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) .15 I forget me not .10 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) .12 AT ITS BEST ALICE BLUE (Bach) .10 ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney).20 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. WE specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES! MUSIC CO. 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 In all Parts of the World Young Latter-day Saints Look Forward to COLLEGE TRAINING AT ITS BEST Offered To them by the church at the Brigham Young University Provo, Utah WINTER QUARTER Begins January 7, 1946 To be perfectly at home with the Doctrine and Covenants use the Concordance To The Doctrine and Covenants By JOHN V. BLUTH of the Church Historian's Office $3.00 A comprehensive, accurate, thorough guide to thousands of passages DESERET BOOK COMPANY ?THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" 44 East South Temple Street, P. O. Box 958, Salt Loke City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine; for a Peaceful Christmas There is one gift that is especially appropriate this year A Bible, because no other gift so perfectly expresses the true meaning of ?Peace on Earth? A National Bible because it?s the beloved King James version?and because National is famous for the fine and lasting quality of books themselves. Despite the war?s end, there still are not enough National Bibles for everyone. But the quantity available is increasing steadily so when you do your Christmas buying ask your bookseller for the Bible you want-National. Give a National bible. Publishers of quality bibles since 1863.