Previews and Lessons for October JULY 1945

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Blanche B. Stoddard
Achsa E. Paxman
Mary G. Judd
Luella N. Adams
Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Priscilla L. Evans
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Ann P. Nibley
Leone O. Jacobs
Leone G. Layton
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editor Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 32 JULY, 1945 No. 7

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
President George Albert Smith Preston Nibley 387
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr Elder Albert E. Bowen 393
President David O. McKay Jeanette Morrell 395
President George F. Richards Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 397
General Board of Relief Society Reorganized 399
Blanche Black Stoddard Gwendolyn H. Resell 403
Evon Waspe Peterson Leone G. Layton 405
Leone Openshaw Jacobs Alice B. Steinicke 406
Velma Nebeker Simonsen Virginia Cannon Nelson 408
Utah Shall Blossom Abundantly Elder Irvin T. Nelson 409
Augusta Winters Grant Observes 89 Birthday 411

FICTION
This Night to Remember Christie Lund Coles 417
And For Eternity Chapter 2 Olive Woolley Burt 420

REGULAR FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 412
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 413
Editorial: The New First Presidency Belle S. Spafford 414
Time For the Canning Program Marianne C. Sharp 415

LESSONS AND PREVIEWS
Suggestions and Instructions for the Education Program 1945-1946 425
Theology Preview 427; The Martyrdom of Joseph Smith Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 429
Visiting Teachers' Messages Preview 434; Christ's Example Dr. Lowell L. Bennion 436
Literature Preview 437; Our Literature Before the Bible Came Dr. Howard R. Driggs 438
Social Science Preview 443; Patterns of Prejudice and Persecution Dr. Harold T. Christensen 444

POETRY
"This Is the Place" Frontispiece C. Frank Steele
Of Plain and Hill Dott J. Sartori 398
I Love This Great, Wide World Essie Bateman Sisk 402
Things Beautiful Rose T. Graham 407
July Courtney E. Cottam 410
Soliloquy Celia A. Van Cott 416
Pioneer Wife Margaret Jenkins 419
Salt Flat Desert Thelma Ireland 435
Alleviation Fae Decker Dix 442
Missing Mable Jones Gabbott 447
My Home Minnie I. Hodapp 448

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 72,000


THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 32, NO. 7 JULY 1945 "THIS IS THE PLACE" C. Frank Steele  This is the place!" These valleys bare, this flaming sea, This burning sun, this broken tree; 'This is the place!" Take hold with patient heart, with ready hand. This shall be home, this your children's land. Water the earth, toil with the ax, the plow. Wait not tomorrow, build your cities now. Brave men shall prosper here. "This is the place!" And the light of God was on the Prophet's face. The Cover: "Furlough" by Willard Luce. PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH Eighth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints President George Albert Smith Preston Nihley 


ONE week after the death of the Book of Mormon and relate President Heber J. Grant, at a to him the story of the wonderful meeting of the Quorum of the visions and manifestations which Twelve Apostles, held in the Salt had been given to his son, Joseph Lake Temple on Monday, May 21st, Junior. Uncle John heard the mes-1945, George Albert Smith, the sen sage of his brother and believed. He ior member and President of the and his wife and their eldest son Quorum, was sustained as the Presi George A. (after whom President dent of the Ghurch of Jesus Ghrist Smith was named) were shortly of Latter-day Saints, when the an thereafter baptized, and, in the nouncement of his selection was summer of 1833, *""Y ni%de their made known, and the news spread way to Kirtland, Ohio, the gatherabroad, universal approval and satis ing place of the saints, faction were expressed by the saints In the spring of 1839, George A. Throughout the stakes and missions Smith, twenty-one years old at the of the Church. President Smith, time, was selected to be a member who has traveled extensively during of the Quorum of the Twelve Apost-the forty-two years that he has been les by the Prophet Joseph Smith, a member of the Quorum of the and was set apart in that high calling Twelve Apostles, is widely known on April 26th of the same year by and greatly beloved. The Latterday Heber C. Kimball. Thereafter he Saints feel to give thanks in their was very active as a missionary both hearts that God has again raised up in this and in foreign lands, a new leader in Israel. Uncle John and his son, George President Smith comes from a A., experienced the persecutions of long line of faithful and devout men the saints in Missouri and Illinois, who have given their time and tal In 1847, they both came to Utah ents freely and unselfishly in for with the pioneers, George A. Being warding the great work which was a member of the original company, begun by the Prophet Joseph Smith. X*"Tien the latter returned to the His great-grandfather was John Missouri River in the fall of 1847, Smith, familiarly known in Church he located on a farm near Kanesville, history as "Uncle John," a brother Iowa, and there on September 18th, of Joseph Smith, Senior. 1848, a son was born to his wife, Uncle John was living in Pots Sarah Ann Libby, who was named dam. New York, in the summer of John Henry. The following year, 1830, peacefully pursuing his voca George A. Smith moved to Salt tion as a farmer, when his brother Lake Valley to make his permanent Joseph came from Palmyra to visit home. He brought his wife and inhim and convey a very important fant son with him. Message, to present him with a copy John Henry Smith grew to man-

Page 387 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 hood in Salt Lake City. One month after his eighteenth birthday, he was married to Sarah Farr, daughter of Lorin Farr of Ogden. The first child born to this couple, a son, named John Henry, died in infancy. On April 4th, 1870, a second son arrived who was named George Albert, after his paternal grandfather. Today, George Albert Smith is the honored President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the eighth man to hold that high and important calling since the Church was organized in 1830. President Smith grew to manhood in the Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City. In his home, he learned all those beautiful and impressive principles which have animated him throughout his life. His mother bestowed all the love and affection and tender care upon her children that it was possible for a woman to give. His father was a very exceptional and capable man, a true missionary and advocate of the principles of the gospel. When George Albert was ten years of age, his father, John Henry Smith, was chosen to be a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, following in the footsteps of his worthy and esteemed father. President George Albert Smith obtained his early education in the public schools of Salt Lake City. Later he was enrolled as a student at the Brigham Young Academy in Provo. There he came under the influence of that remarkable teacher, Karl G. Maeser, from whom he learned many valuable and impressive teachings which have remained with him through life. Returning to Salt Lake City, he took courses at the State University and continued his education. In 1892, shortly after his marriage to Lucy Emily Woodruff, daughter of Emily Jane Smith and Wilford Woodruff, Jr., George Albert left Salt Lake City on a mission to the Southern States. In a few months his wife followed him and together they performed their missionary labors, spending most of their time in Chattanooga, Tennessee, where Elder Smith acted as secretary of the Southern States Mission. On being released in July 1894, Elder Smith returned to Salt Lake City and was employed by the Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution until February 10th, 1898, when he was appointed receiver of the United States Land Office for Utah by President William McKinley. He held this position until he was chosen a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles at the October conference in 1903. Since he became an apostle, nearly forty-two years ago. President Smith has labored unceasingly for the welfare and advancement of the Church. It would require much more space than has been allotted to us here to enumerate his many activities. He has visited all the stakes and most of the missions of the Church. In 1919, shortly after the first World War, he was called to preside over the European Mission and in that capacity he traveled throughout Great Britain and on the Continent where the missions of the Church are located. On July 14, 1921, President Smith was released from his presidency in Europe. He returned at once to Salt Lake City and resumed his activity in the Quorum of the PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 389 HONEYMOON AT NIAGARA FALLS President George Albert Smith and Lucy Emily Woodruff Twelve Apostles. Two years ago, he became the president of this Quorum following the death of President Rudger Clawson. He held this position until he became President of the Church on May 21st, following the death of President Heber J. Grant. Many honors have come to President Smith during the course of his busy life. AT Calgary, Canada, in 1913, he was elected president of the International Irrigation Congress. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 Lucy Emily Woodruff Smith, wife of President George Albert Smith, and their daughters: left, Emily Smith Stewart and right, Edith Smith Elliott. The following year at Sacramento he was again re-elected to the same position, and in 1915 at El Paso, Texas, he was named president of that organization. Two years later he was elected president of the International Dry Farming Congress at Peoria, Illinois, and elected president of the Combined Irrigation and Dry Farming Congress at Kansas City in 1918. For many years, President Smith was active in the organization of the Sons of the American Revolution, and was six times elected as vice-president general. In 1918 and 1919 he was president of the Utah Society of S. A. R. He was one of the organizers of the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association, and has continued as president of the organization since that time. He has recently been appointed chairman of the "This Is The Place" Monument Commission which is directing the preparation of the monument to be unveiled during the Utah Centennial in 1947 at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, where the pioneers first entered Salt Lake Valley. President Smith became a member of the General Board of Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association in 1904, and served until 1921 when he was named as general superintendent. He stood at the head of this great Church auxiliary for fifteen years. This work brought him in touch with scouting, in which he has taken an extremely active interest. He has ranked as the highest scout official in the Church, being given the Silver Buffalo. He has served for years as a member of the national executive board, Boy Scouts of America. To know President George Albert Smith is to love him. He is friendly, kind, considerate, devoted, and does not harbor animosity towards any human being. More than any man we know he has that rare quality of soul which permits him to exemplify the teachings of the Savior when he said: "Love your enemies; pray for them which despitefully use you. PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 391 An index to his character may be found in a statement written by himself and published in the Improvement Era in January 1932.  I would be a friend to the friendless and find joy in ministering to the poor. I would visit the sick and afflicted and inspire in them a desire for faith to be healed. I would teach the truth to the understanding and blessing of all mankind. I would seek out the erring one and try to win him back to a righteous and happy life. I would not seek to force people to live up to my ideals, but rather love them into doing the thing that is right. I would live with the masses and help to solve their problems that their earth life may be happy. I would avoid the publicity of high positions and discourage the flattery of thoughtless friends. I would not knowingly wound the feelings of any, not even one who may have wronged me, but would seek to do him good and make him my friend. I would overcome the tendency to selfishness and jealousy and rejoice in the success of all the children of my Heavenly Father. I would not be an enemy to any living soul. Knowing that the Redeemer of mankind has offered to the world the only plan that will fully develop us and make us really happy here and hereafter, I feel it not only a duty, but a blessed privilege to disseminate this truth." President Smith's congenial happy home life was saddened, in November 1937, by the death of his dear and loving wife. Lucy Woodruff Smith was an ideal companion for her husband. THREE GENERATIONS, left to right: George Albert Smith V; George Albert Smith, Jr.; President George Albert Smith. (This photograph was taken in 1937) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 She was a childhood sweetheart, devoted to her family, loyal to her Church, sympathetic and helpful to President Smith in the multifarious duties which he has undertaken during his public career. President Smith has three children, one son and two daughters. They are George Albert Smith Jr., Assistant Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration at Harvard University; Mrs. Emily Smith Stewart; and Mrs. Edith Smith Elliott of Salt Lake City. There are eight grandchildren. Our good wishes go with President Smith in the great responsibility which has come to him and we pray that his life may be extended for many years and that he may find joy and satisfaction in his labors. President George Albert Smith and four of his grandchildren, left to right: Nancy Lucy Elliott, President Smith, Shauna Lucy Stewart, Martha Re June Stewart and George Thomas Elliott. President Smith's other grandchildren are: Robert Murray Stewart, Jr., who recently graduated from the Electrical Engineering Department at Ames, Iowa, in the Nax'y V-12 program with high honors; George Albert Smith V; Samuel Nowell Smith; Robert Nowell Smith. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr, Elder Albert E. Bowen Member of the Council of the Twelve EIGHTEEN years ago the senior member of a great engineering and contracting firm that had designed and built many of the mammoth works, public and private, over America, called at President Clark's Salt Lake City office. The visiting gentleman was entertained by the writer and informed that President Clark had recently gone to Mexico as special adviser to Ambassador Morrow. He said: "I congratulate Mr. Morrow. Reuben Clark is a tower of strength to any one fortunate enough to enlist his services." Such is the appraisal, by one qualified through personal experience and association, and long accustomed to deal intimately with men of eminence in our own and other lands, of the man whose services have been for the last twelve years freely and unstintingly given to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as a member of its First Presidency, and who now enters upon a new period of duty at the same post under the Presidency of George Albert Smith. Nor is the estimate above given a mere isolated instance of the high rating given to his ability and impeccable honor by men of high distinction with whom President Clark has worked. They include Presidents of the United States, Cabinet members representing the Departments of State, War, and Justice; members of the Supreme Court, and high ranking Army officials upon whose recommendation he was given the Distinguished Service Medal for exceptional accomplishments during the first World War. PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. On the flyleaf of the second volume of the second edition of the Selective Service Rules and Regulations coming from the press in 1919 Provost Marshal General Crowder inscribed: "To Major Reuben Clark In recognition of devoted self giving in an absorbing and difficult task and of as fine loyalty to a cause as I have ever witnessed." His numerous influential and powerful friends in the East have found it difficult to understand his abandoning offers of lucrative association and worldly prominence for the relative obscurity of his position in the Church with its absence of all chance for material emoluments. But President Clark does not look upon this as a sacrifice. Page 393 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 Neither does he pose as a martyr to the Cause. The reason is simple. While being fully aware of the power of money and its ability to minister to physical comfort, he knows that its acquisition or possession is, in terms of life, of but incidental and trivial consequence. He is not over-awed by it, nor by the assumptions of those who possess it. The sponsor of injustice or wrong though buttressed by the prestige or arrogance of wealth or high station would meet with as short shrift at the hands of President Clark as would the meanest pauper. His powerful mind has a way of brushing aside all the overburden of superficiality or deceptive gilding and laying the basic issue bare at the roots. He knows, too, how ephemeral worldly honor and public plaudits are. He is not seduced by them away from the central purpose of life. He has unwavering faith that there is divinity and immortality in man and that life should be ordered on a plane compatible with these high conceptions. President Clark came direct from the lay field to a place in the First Presidency of the Church. That is to say, he had not been through a period of service in lesser official positions. But to Latter-day Saints, there is nothing incongruous about that. He had been reared in a Latter-day Saint home where the principles and practices of the Church were matters of everyday consideration and observance. He had grown to maturity in intimate participation in the affairs of ward and stake. From childhood he had absorbed the ideals, requirements, and doctrines of the Church. They were in the marrow of his bones. He is a meticulous student of the Bible and particularly the life and teachings of the Savior. He knows the other scriptures. Happily for the great body of the laity of the Church, and for their consolation, God has so provided that official position is not necessary to gaining of experience. Wisdom may ripen in lay service. The Lord seems to have the habit of drawing upon experience suited to the need of any time without regard to where the experience might have been garnered. President Clark's rich and varied experiences, coupled with his humility and fidelity to God and his work, have admirably fitted him to the needs of this time. All his powers and all his experience he lays at the feet of the Church to help guide it amid the scenes where it must do its work in the troubled days of a momentous era. The Lorelei, no longer confined to their native habitat on the banks of the Rhine, still sing their siren songs. Great wisdom and discernment, advantaged by wide experience in the ways of men and of nations are needed. Of the arts of blandishment he knows nothing. If honestly rendered service with whole-souled devotion to duty and unwavering fidelity to those who have honored him with their trust cannot win, he has no other means to employ. Subterfuge, (Concluded on page 448) President David O. McKay Jeanette Morrell Visiting Teachers' Message Leader, Twelfth Ward, Mount Ogden Stake THE home into which President David O. McKay was born proved the best possible environment to prepare him for the responsibilities that have come into his later life. It was characterized by regular family prayers, harmony, love, and hospitality which was enjoyed by many Church and civic leaders. His parents directed his youthful development with faith and with sympathetic understanding. As a boy, he had his dog, a pony, pigeons, rabbits, and other pets. There was the old swimming pool which was a gathering place for the boys of the town during the hot summer days, and, later, his interests were centered in the baseball nine and in an orchestra in which he was pianist. With all these activities, incident to pleasant life in the country, there was still plenty of well-organized work which he shared with his father and brothers. There was also an unswerving rule that all attend sacrament, priesthood quorum, and auxiliary organization meetings, and that the Sabbath be respected as a day of rest. Thus, proper and lasting habits were formed in his early life and they have proved to be valuable ones. When he was twelve years old, he received a blessing from Patriarch John Smith, then on one of his regular visits at the Huntsville home. PRESIDENT DAVID O. MCKAY Among many other promises, the blessing said,  The eye of the Lord is upon thee. It shall be thy lot to sit in council with thy brethren and to preside among the people and exhort the saints to faithfulness. And thou shalt go forth wherever thou art sent by the Priesthood, like a roaring lion in the forest, none to stay thee, for the power of God shall rest upon thee and give thee strength, wisdom and understanding." At the close of the blessing, Brother Smith placed his hand on David O's head and said, "My boy, you have much to do besides play marbles." Page 395 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 Thinking the Patriarch was suggesting that he give up the game entirely, he was quite perturbed and so expressed himself to some members of his family; for playing marbles was one of his favorite games and he was an expert in it. Only after his mother explained what Elder Smith really meant did he understand the meaningful remark. He was president of the class graduated from the University of Utah in June 1897, and, in August of that same year, left for the British Mission. Upon his return from a successful missionary experience, he commenced his career as a teacher first as an instructor in English and later as principal of Weber Stake Academy. In this latter position, he was not only an excellent teacher, but was father-confessor and spiritual adviser to hundreds of young people who still refer to him as the greatest influence in their educational and spiritual development. While directing the affairs of Weber Academy, he was called to the superintendency of the Weber Stake Sunday School Board. Under his supervision, a new era in religious teaching came into existence. The system of teacher-training, outlining lessons, and intelligent, organized presentation aroused new interest on the part of teacher and pupil, and brought deserved commendation from other churches and religious organizations. In 1895, "" became second assistant to President Joseph F. Smith who was then General Superintendent of Sunday Schools. In 1918, he was appointed General Superintendent, which position he held for years. Elder Bryant S. Hinckley said of him: "He brought to the Sunday School work not only an undivided heart, but the strength and devotion of all his splendid powers. Through the Sunday School, he has fostered two major objectives of the Church  the development of faith, and the building of character." From these duties, he was made a member of the Council of Twelve Apostles on April 8, 1906. His years as president of the European Mission and his world tour of Latter-day Saint missions, in company with Brother Hugh J. Cannon, are replete with faith-promoting experiences, and were paralleled only by recorded history of similar trips made by the ancient apostles. Many bishops, presidents of stakes, and a large membership of the Priesthood remember his strong advocacy of a Church Welfare organization long before it became a church-wide movement. In this, as in his stake and general Sabbath school and missionary work, were manifest an earnestness and vision that always result in progress. His everyday life has been consistent with his teaching and preaching, and has earned for him the love and confidence of all who really know him. He stands for what he thinks is right regardless of opposition or criticism, but he is tolerant and charitable toward all whether or not they believe as he does. He loves deeply and tenderly, as his family and friends can testify. President McKay's wide experi-(Concluded on page 448) President George F. Richards Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Member of the Council of the Twelve IT can be said of President George F. Richards, the newly appointed President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, what the Lord said of Nathanael, "Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile." There are, without doubt, many others who have given service to the Church and who are now giving service, just as true, just as loyal as President George F. Richards, but there are none, we may confidently say, who surpass him in the principle of loyalty, devotion and faithfulness to the cause of eternal truth. He was born February 23, 1861, in Farmington, Davis County, Utah. His early years were spent, as are the years of the average boy, on a farm, but he was also most active in the offices of the Aaronic Priesthood, and at an early age received the office of Elder and served as clerk of the Elder's quorum, ward teacher, in the presidency of the local M. I. A. And as stake missionary. March 9, 1882, he married Alice A. Robinson, and shortly afterwards moved to a farm in Plymouth, Boxelder County. In 1888 he moved to Tooele where he was ordained, January 29, 1890, to the office of High Priest and set apart as second counselor to President Hugh S. Cowans in the presidency of the Tooele Stake. Three years later, while serving in the stake presidency, he was ordained a Patriarch by Elder Francis M. Lyman, and in addition to the many duties in the stake presidency, he traveled through the scattered settlements of Tooele Stake giving blessings to all who sought them. In 1899, he was elected to the Legislature and represented Tooele County in the session of 1899-1900. PRESIDENT GEORGE F. RICHARDS He was also prominent in the civic affairs of Tooele County, on the district school board, as trustee and chairman of the Tooele Irrigation Company and the Tooele City Water Company. In December 1905, with his wife and son, Oliver, then a babe in arms, he accompanied President Joseph F. Smith and party to Sharon, Vermont, where the monument was dedicated to the honor of the Prophet Joseph Smith at the site of his birth, by President Joseph F. Smith just one hundred years after the birth of the Prophet. Page 397 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 The following year, April 8, 1906, he, with Elders Orson F. Whitney and David O. McKay, was called into the Council of the Twelve Apostles and was ordained by President Joseph F. Smith the following day. From that day until the present his life has been one of great activity, visiting the stakes of Zion, assisting in setting them in order, with the many special appointments and duties which his calling required of him. In the year 1916, he was called to preside over the European Missions, succeeding Elder Hyrum M. Smith. As the great war was on, his wife,4id not accompany him at that time because of the perils upon the water due to the activity of German submarines. He remained in Europe under the difficulties which arose due to the great world struggle, until he was succeeded by Elder George Albert Smith in June 1919. After the death of President An-thon H. Lund, in 1921, he was appointed to preside in the Salt Lake Temple which position he held until 1937, when he was released, because of numerous other responsibilities and because he had been appointed by President Heber J. Grant to act as Patriarch in the interregnum following the death of Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith. In his present calling as President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, he follows in the footsteps of his father, Franklin D. Richards, who also served as the president of the Council following the death of President Wilford Woodruff, when Lorenzo Snow was sustained as President of the Church, in September 1898. President Richards enters upon his duties as the President of the Council with the love, the faith and the prayers of all the members of the Church, well prepared by long and faithful service. OF PLAIN AND HILL Dott J Sartori You who faced that West of long ago-Roadless, hostile, citiless, unknown   Who dared to trust your frail mortality To oxen's gait, to prairie waste and stone. I seek your sweet sublime obedience, I need your simple faith in God's great will, For, ever must each generation cross Some trackless treachery of plain and hill. General Board of Relief Society Reorganized AT the opening session of the general conference of the Church held April 6, 1945, General President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Marcia K. Howells, Second Counselor Belle S. Spafford, and the entire Relief Society General Board, including General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman, were released, with expressions of deep gratitude for the services rendered. Belle S. Spafford was sustained ninth general president of Relief Society with Marianne Clark Sharp as first counselor and Gertrude Ryberg Garff as second counselor. In announcing the reorganization of the General Board, the First Presidency stated that the decision to reorganize followed the favorable action upon the request tendered several months ago of President Lyman for a release from her position and labors. The action was also in line with the general plan inaugurated several years ago to change at some frequency the presidents and general boards of the Church auxiliaries. Amy Brown Lyman was first called to the General Board of Relief Society in 1909. She has served the organization successively as assistant general secretary, general secretary, general secretary-treasurer, as counselor to Louise Y. Robison in the general presidency, and, since January 1940, as general president. She has filled each position with outstanding success. GENERAL BOARD MEMBERS RETIRED Top row, left to right: Donna D. Sorensen, 1935-1945; Vivian R. McConkie, 1937-1945; Leda T. Jensen, 1937-1945; Rae B. Barker, 1937-1945; Nellie O. Parker, 1937- 1945- Bottom row, left to right: Anna S. Barlow, 1938-1945; Leona F. Wintch, 1940- 1945; Pauline T. Pingree, 1940-1945; Alice B. Castleton, 1940-1945; Agnes M. Bolto, 1943-1945. Page 399 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 Marcia K. Howells was first made a member of the Relief Society General Board in 1929, and was appointed counselor to President Lyman in January 1940. In addition to her regular duties as counselor, her special responsibility in the general presidency has been that of work director. She has also been manager of the temple and burial clothes department, and general director of the Mormon Handicraft Shop. Belle S. Spafford was made a member of the General Board in 1935. She was appointed editor of The Relief Society Magazine in 1937. In addition to this duty she was, in November 1942, called by President Lyman to succeed Donna D. Sorensen as second counselor in charge of educational work. Vera W. Pohlman has efficiently served as general secretary-treasurer throughout the administration of President Amy Brown Lyman. The following retired board members were appointed during the administration of President Louise Y. Robison: Donna D. Sorensen, Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Rae B. Barker, Nellie O. Parker, and Anna S. Barlow. Other retired Board members appointed during the administration of President Amy Brown Lyman are: Leona F. Wintch, Pauline T. Pingree, Alice B. Castleton and Agnes M. Bolto. GENERAL BOARD MEMBERS RECALLED Luella Top row, left to right: Achsa E. Paxman, 1940 ; Mary Grant Judd, 194c Nebeker Adams, 1940 ; Anna Boss Hart, 1940 ; Edith Smith Elliott, 194c Bottom row, left to right: Priscilla L. Evans, 1941 ; Florence J. Madsen, 1941 ; Ann P. Nibley, 1941 ; Leone Gedge Layton, 1944 . GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED New Board Announced The recall of nine members of the former Board, each first named members of the Board during the administration of President Lyman, and the appointment of Blanche B. Stoddard as general secretary-treasurer on Tuesday, May 22, together with the appointment of three new Board members in addition to Sister Stoddard was announced Saturday, May 26, 1945, by the Relief Society general presidency. Members recalled from the former Board are: Achsa E. Paxman, Mary Grant Judd, Luella N. Adams, Anna B. Hart, Edith Smith Elliott, Priscilla L. Evans, Florence J. Madsen, Ann P. Nibley, and Leone G. Lay ton. The three new members are Evon Waspe Peterson, Leone O. Jacobs and Velma N. Simonsen. EDITOR APPOINTED Marianne C. Sharp who has served as associate editor of The Relief Society Magazine since August 1943, and who for several months prior to that period was assistant to the editor, has been appointed editor of the Magazine succeeding Belle S. Spafford. Sister Sharp will hold this position in addition to serving as counselor in the general presidency. The editorial ability of Marianne C. Sharp is reflected in the excellence of the issues of the Magazine edited by her, and also in A Centenary of Relief Society which she assisted in preparing and which was published by the General Board in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the Society. President Lyman in evaluating Sister Sharp's contribution to this publication said: "Mrs. Sharp's contribution to the general excellence of the publication was important and valuable. She has a natural interest in historical happenings, and this book bears evidence of the thoroughness of her research, her good judgment in evaluating historical events, and the accuracy with which she records historical facts." MARIANNE CLARK SHARP Appointed Editor President Lyman paid tribute to the general editorial ability of Mrs. Sharp as follows: "Mrs. Sharp has a fine intellect, discriminating judgment, and excellent literary taste. She is sensitive to the reading interests and needs of Latter-day Saint women, and meticulous in the preparing of Magazine material. She is willing to work long and hard to maintain high standards of excellence." Under the direct supervision of Sister Sharp, The Relief Society Magazine will go on to new heights of excellence. Called at this time to assist Sister Sharp in editing the Magazine is Vesta Pierce Crawford who is one year in the Utah State poetry named editorial secretary. Sister contest, and first one year in the Crawford, whose husband, Arthur L. Salt Lake Tribune short-story con-Crawford, is a member of the faculty test. Her contributions to Church of the Utah Engineering Experi- magazines are well known. The ment Station, University of Utah, readers of The Relief Society Mag-is a graduate of Brigham Young Uni- azine will welcome the addition of versity, where she was associate edi- Vesta Pierce Crawford to the edi-tor of both the newspaper and the torial staff. Her outstanding literary literary magazine. She studied litera- gifts in both the fields of poetry ture at Stanford University and re- and prose are well recognized by ceived her Master's Degree from the readers of the Magazine where her University of Wyoming. She has poems and stories, many of them been a teacher of English in Provo prize-winners, have appeared. and Murray schools, the Salt Lake Note: Sketches and pictures of the retir-City Civic Center, and the Uni- ing executive officers and new general versity of Utah. For several years presidency of Relief Society appear in the she has been a regular contributor of May 1945 issue of The Relief Society stories, poems, and articles to na- Magazine. Sketches of members retiring tional magazines. She placed first from the former Board appear in earlier issues of the Magazine. LOVE THIS GREAT, WIDE WORLD Essie Bateman Sisk I love this great, wide world of ours; The winter snows and summer showers. I love the glowing noonday sun, The peaceful calm when day is done. I love the stars, all shining bright To guide the traveler through the night. I love the ocean deep and wide, The endless rise and fall of tide. And the ships that sail the restless sea Great fascination hold for me. As they wind their way to foreign port Laden with cargo of every sort. I love this great, wide world of ours, The gloomy days, the sunny hours. I love the mountain's majesty, The rivers rushing toward the sea. And Iam sure that mere man Could not improve upon God's plan. Blanche Black Stoddard Gwendolyn H. Rosell First Counselor Bonneville Stake Primary Board CHARACTERIZED by Dr. Lynn Bennion while she was Bonneville Stake Superintendent of Junior Seminary as a "radiant leader/' Blanche Black Stoddard, newly appointed Relief Society general secretary - treasurer, brings to her new assignment a great number of outstanding assets. She is an inveterate reader, a constant student of the gospel, and is blessed with a most charming personality, unusual executive and organizing ability, a delightful sense of humor and most valuable of all an understanding heart. Her fervent testimony and unwavering love of the gospel thrill young people and old alike. With her buoyant spirit, her talent as a speaker, and an unusual ability to remember names and faces, she has surrounded herself with a host of friends and is loved by all who contact her. Her list of friends includes both sweet-faced old folks and lively adolescents, for she has worked in every auxiliary in the Church. Sister Stoddard, born in St. Anthony, Idaho, the" oldest of seven children, comes from hardy pioneer stock and was reared in a home where love for and devotion to the gospel and service in the Church were taught from babyhood. Her early life was spent in La Grande, Oregon, where she received a fine education in business and banking and where, when only nineteen years of age, she was called upon to act as president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. BLANCHE BLACK STODDARD She served for twenty years as ward and stake organist in La Grande and was also at various times Gleaner teacher, M. I. A. Stake representative, and counselor in the stake Relief Society. Her father, Charles J. Black, was a bishop in Oregon for some fourteen years and was then made a counselor to the stake president. Her widowed mother, Mary Ann Steers Black, who still resides in Oregon, has been an ardent worker in the Church throughout her life. She has known many trials and heartaches, but her loyalty to the gospel and her firm faith in the goodness of our Heavenly Father have always been beacon lights of inspiration to her daughter. Page 403 Blanche Black was married January 22, 1921, in the Salt Lake Temple to A. Lester Stoddard, a former South African missionary. He was a bishop in Oregon for six years prior to the family's move to Salt Lake City. He has always been a lumberman and at present is conducting his own business. He, also, is a zealous Church worker and his co-operation and backing are in a large measure responsible for his maverick's success. Both Brother and Sister Stoddard have always willingly accepted the calls to serve which have come to them in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints never seeking office, but always filling their appointments humbly, prayerfully, and well. They are the parents of four lovely children: Ann, the wife of Captain L. C. Reese, is now stationed at Phoenix, Arizona, with her husband and tiny daughter, Linda; Philip is a corporal with the United States Infantry in Germany; Sue will graduate in June from the East High School where she has been student body secretary; and Judith is a student at the Roosevelt Junior High School.
A visit to the Stoddard home is a really pleasant experience, for there one finds a spirit of love, devotion, and co-operation home in the true sense of the word. The friends of the children as well as of the parents love to gather and always find a sincere welcome, a warm friendly feeling, and a wholesome homey time.
Since coming to Salt Lake City thirteen years ago, Sister Stoddard has served on the Wells Stake Sunday School Board, the Bonneville Stake Primary Board, and taught Seminary in the Wells and Le-Grand Wards before becoming superintendent of the Junior Seminary in Bonneville Stake. During the past few months she has been invited to speak at numbers of Fire-side Groups and Gleaner classes on "Temple Marriage," and has succeeded in implanting in the hearts of the young people she has addressed a desire for celestial marriage and its blessings.
Although she has been outstandingly successful in each position as she has filled it, her heart for a number of years has been in Relief Society work. This is evidenced by her record as theology teacher in the Relief Society of the Seventeenth Ward where, for nine years, regardless of other appointments, she did not miss a single theology day. The Relief Society sisters know and love her as a brilliant teacher whose gospel background and pleasing lesson presentation afforded them hours of spiritual enjoyment and uplift.
Four years ago she was called to preside over the Relief Society in LeGrand Ward and did her work so creditably that two years later when Park Stake was organized she was the sister selected by the stake presidency to preside over the Relief Society. Under her capable guidance Park Stake Relief Society has taken its place near the top in achievement.
All who know her ability and background are looking forward to outstanding work from her, and praying for our Heavenly Father's choicest blessings upon her in her new calling.
Sister Stoddard's thorough business training and extensive business experience will be of great value in her new calling. GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED 405In La Grande, Oregon, she gained her first business practice under the capable direction of her father in his real estate and insurance office. For three years she worked as bookkeeper in the United States National Bank of La Grande. Later she worked as paying and receiving teller. Recently, in Salt Lake City, Sister Stoddard has worked in the postal cashier department of the Federal Post Office, first as assistant to the time clerk and later as remittance clerk, in which position she was under heavy bond, being responsible for handling many thousands of dollars daily. Eager and untiring in her capacity for work, Sister Stoddard is a natural leader, capable of organizing and directing large groups of women. Her enthusiasm is contagious. Evon Waspe Peterson Leone G. Lavton Member of Relief Society General Board THE appointment of Evon Waspe Peterson to the General Board of Relief Society by the First Presidency will be welcomed by all who have associated with her. She brings to the service of the women of the Church a wealth of religious and business training. Always giving freely of herself, she has been a strength to the Church auxiliaries. In the Poplar Grove Ward, Pioneer Stake, she served in many activities as a Sunday School teacher, as secretary and counselor in the Y. W. M. I. A., as president of the Primary, and on the Sunday School and Y. W. M. LA. Stake boards. For two years she acted as counselor to Sister Lottie Fullmer, President of Pioneer Stake Relief Society. After leaving Pioneer Stake, she served as secretary in the Valley View Ward Relief Society. Her Peterson acted as secretary to Amy fine business experience is revealed Brown Lyman in the general offices in the excellence of her records. Of the Relief Society. After her During her business career Sister graduation from the Latter-day Saints College, she worked in the Charity Organization offices and for the Red Cross. EVON WASPE PETERSON RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 For ten years she was secretary to the Superintendent of Granite School District. Her marriage to her childhood sweetheart, John Vernon Peterson, interrupted her business activities, but she acted as secretary for the Community Chest drive for several years and assisted the manager of the Red Cross drives. Sister Peterson, comes from a home where service in the Master's cause was always first. The three gids, Mabel, Evon, and Ilene Anne had the example of worthy parents to follow. Their mother, Emma I. Smith Waspe, was born in Barham Green, England, and their father, William Waspe, in Ipswich. In response to the call of the missionaries to 'gather to Zion," they had completed preparations to leave England when Francis M. Lyman asked them to postpone their going and preside over the mission home at Norwich. Many missionaries have borne testimony of the service they rendered. Here Evon was born and when she was one and one-half years old the little family came to Zion. Brother Peterson, Ronald, and Carolee support Sister Peterson in all her activities. Their desire, with hers, is that she may "serve the women of the Church." Leone Openshaw Jacobs Alice B. Steinicke President Ensign Stake Relief Society STRENGTH lies not in might, but in righteousness, and righteousness is one of the outstanding qualities of Leone Openshaw Jacobs. A capable and experienced Relief Society worker, she has charm and poise, seasoned with humility, a gracious dignity, sound judgment. And she lives the Golden Rule. Leone was born in Kaysville, Utah, a daughter of Joseph and Elizabeth Raymond Openshaw, staunch Latter-day Saints. Her grandparents on both sides were pioneers for the gospel's sake. Leone attended school in Kaysville and graduated from Davis High School. It was while attending the University of Utah, majoring in education, that she met her future husband, Joseph Jacobs. They were married in the Salt Lake Temple, August 30, 1923. Due to her own inclinations and the fact that her husband is a high school teacher, Leone has continued her interests along educational lines. She and her husband have given generously of their time and talents in the various organizations of the Church wherever they have resided. A wonderful missionary experience came to Leone in July of 1938, when her husband was called to preside over the Palestine-Syrian Mission with headquarters in Beirut, Lebanon. GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED 407 They took their children, Geraldine and Lamont, then eleven and seven years of age, and assumed missionary labors in the Holy Land. Here Sister Jacobs was mission mother and received great joy and inspiration from her work with the devoted saints and missionaries. The privilege of living amid the sacred surroundings of the Holy Land instilled in her a lasting appreciation of the gospel and the mission of the Savior. The latter part of 1939, they were called home because of the war, being among the last missionaries to arrive in the United States. Soon after coming home, Leone acted as assistant literature teacher in the South Eighteenth Ward Relief Society. In September 1941, she was called to the Ensign Stake Relief Society Board, under President Lucena R. Card, later becoming second counselor to Sister Card, and still later first counselor to Alice B. Steinicke, president of Ensign Stake Relief Society at the present time. In these positions Leone has proved her love for Relief Society by her devoted service. LEONE OPENSHAW JACOBS Quoting Sister Jacobs' words, "Activity in Relief Society has brought me much joy, a greater testimony of the gospel, and many cherished friendships." THINGS BEAUTIFUL Rose T. Graham These are beautiful things: The peacock's rounded, wide-spread tail, The rainbow trout with shining scale. The armadillo's coat of mail; These are beautiful things. These are beautiful things: A baby in your arms to fold, A big boy quarrelsome and bold, A mother who can wisely mold; These are beautiful things. Velma Nebeker Simonsen Virginia Cannon Nelson THE appointment of Velma Nebeker Simonsen to the General Board of Relief Society will be applauded by everyone who has ever known Velma as a fitting honor to her and a happy selection for the Board. VELMA NEBEKER SIMONSEN Velma's virtues are as fixed and true as the four points of a compass. The magnetic north is her faith in God, her strong testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, her orthodox religious life, and her missionary spirit. At right angles to her religious side is her willingness to serve. Another cardinal point of her compass is her genuine friendliness and optimism. Velma likes people and work. Page 408 As steady as the prevailing winds from the west are Velma's energy and enthusiasm. Her new assignment is the culmination of a long list of Church activities. For the past year Velma has been the energetic and lovable president of Yale Ward Relief Society. Previously she served as counselor in the same organization. As theology teacher in both Yale and Wasatch Wards she gave an eloquent interpretation of gospel doctrine. There are few positions in the auxiliary organizations in which Velma has not served. She has filled two missions in the Northwest, the first one in 1920. It was while teaching the Indian mission school in Montana that she met her husband, also a missionary. Velma Simonsen was born in Annabella, Utah, a daughter of Adelmon and May H. Nebeker, both of pioneer stock. She attended school in Sevier County and later at Brigham Young University. She also had "le experience of teaching school in Sevier County. Her husband, John O. Simonsen, at present a high councilman in Bonneville Stake, served five years in the Yale Ward bishopric. Their life together is a pattern of love, understanding, and helpfulness. Velma's load will never be too heavy, because John stands beside her. They have four children: Winona, a graduate of the University of Utah; John M., at Stanford in the (Concluded on page 448) Utah Shall Blossom Abundantly Elder Irvin T. Nelson Supervisor of Landscaping on Temple Square... The desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly, And rejoice even with joy and singing (Isaiah 35:1-2), THE State of Utah, on her Centennial eve, should be ready to blossom, yes, to blossom abundantly. Let there be trees and lawns, shrubs and flowers. Let the whole State blossom as our planting dictates, as the rose, as the lilac, as the peony, as the lilies and poppies of the field. Remember this, however, unless we plant, there can be no blossoming. To this end, each person who loves his State should show that love by planting something to clothe her in beauty. Before blossoming can come, there must first be plowing and planting, hoeing and watering. Even before a sod is turned, there must be the mind's vision of what is to come. There must be patience, too oh, the long years of waiting before some flowers bloom! Our pioneer forebears showed us the way, with patience, with vision, with labor. The standards set by them are worthy ones for us today. They were fired by the injunction of their Prophet given in the stress and suffering of Jackson County, Missouri: "Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness. Yea, verily, I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments." Through all the hardships of the pioneers, there crystallized one yearning, a home again, in security, where they could worship as they pleased. In Nauvoo, they showed how they could make even a swamp blossom with real homes. But for many of the pioneers, as they trudged the weary miles to Salt Lake Valley, or waited at Winter Quarters, or in a foreign land, there was only patience and work and looking forward to the blossoming that was to come when they reached the Valley. And many of them went down into Death's Valley, instead of on to Zion. They died holding fast to a dream of homes, safe from enemies, and, in due time, the peace of shade trees and the joy of roses. But those dreams were not buried on the plains. Those who were permitted to come to the Valley worked with an added zeal, because of the true souls who had given their all, and it was not long before real homes began to blossom 'in the valleys. Stubborn soil was cultivated and made to produce food and clothing were urgent necessities. But not by bread alone did they live. Their homes held safe the treasures of the spirit. Beauty, as well as utility, was in their gardens. In those covered wagons were carried not only fruit trees and corn for the planting, but also rose bushes and geranium slips. With their own hands the pioneer built homes and filled them with handiwork and, seeing the State must be organized. Plans their work was good, then came the must be made. Page 409 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1945 UTAH STATE CAPITOL them with handiwork and, seeing their work was good, then came the joy and the singing. Now is the time for us to show that we appreciate our heritage and our desire to pass it on. As war conditions improve, cities, counties, and the State must be organized. Plans must be made. Work must proceed. As individuals we should not say,  I wish I could hire someone to make me a beautiful garden.  Do it with your own hands and there will be the joy and the singing. JULY Courtney E. Cottam Rose-petal carpeting is gone. The fruiting trees still hold their yield. The waiting season now is here For garden, flower and ripening field. Augusta Winters Grant Observes 89th Birthday IT is with pleasure that the General Board, on behalf of the entire membership of Relief Society, congratulates Augusta Winters Grant who will observe her 89th birthday on July 7, 1945. The life of Sister Grant up to the present time has been replete with many of the richest experiences which this life affords. She has been a close companion and loving wife to her husband, the late President Heber J. Grant, and has fully assisted and sustained him in his high position as the President of the Church. In company with President Grant, Sister Grant has traveled extensively, and to all whom she has met she has radiated a spirit of friendliness, interest, and charm. It is the heartfelt wish of the women of the Church that the Lord's choicest blessings may rest upon Sister Grant, that she may enjoy health and happiness throughout the years that lie ahead, that by her presence she may bless her numerous friends and her posterity. Page 411 Sixty years ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" From a letter to the Editor, Emmeline B. Wells, written by Augusta Winters [Grant]: We had a pleasant trip from Salt Lake to New York stopped at various points of interest along the way, not forgetting one lovely day at Niagara Falls.... Since our arrival we have been visiting most of the time in the vicinity of Bethel, and other small villages, situated on the Androscoggin in Maine I like this part of the country very much for summer. I never get tired of walking through the woods, where so many pretty wild flowers, ferns and mosses can be found, and the grandest trees, rocks and waterfalls..... both mother's health and mine is very good, and we have found many kind friends here. Notes and News: Sixteen women graduated this year from the medical department of the Iowa State University A California lady has discovered a process for pre serving the juices of citrus fruits with their natural flavor and without fermentation The bill requiring temperance, physiology and hygiene to be taught in the public schools was passed in the Massachusetts House of Representatives last Thursday. As from fairest fields of Eden, Floateth echoes of a song, Like the rainbow arch at even Bringing gladness after storm. So we clasp love's priceless token, Mark the summer passing by; Flowers bloom, and fruitage golden. Singing o'er "sweet bye and bye.",  L. M. Hewlings, Editorial: In childhood's days the very mention of "Independence Day" sent the blood tingling through our veins, and no exertion was too much to celebrate the memorable occasion. Have we forgotten these early impressions, and the patriotism we drank in with the very air we breathed? No, we have not; they are with us still, and the same love of liberty and consciousness of freedom to worship God, that we inherited as our birthright, still remains strong and dominant in our nature In America, the land of the free and the home of the brave, a land blest above all other lands, with a Constitution greater and grander than any upon the face of the earth, the Lord raised up in this age of the world a prophet, and gave him a message of life and salvation and a warning unto all people Too many of the forefathers of this people bled and died for that independence of which the stars and stripes are significant, and they know what the feeling of genuine love of country is, and feel it too deeply to make light of any of its symbols. Silent Communings by Hannah T. King: My other self and I have had a long colloquy this evening upon many deep and important subjects, upon which it is good to ruminate. I believe the meditations were caused by attending, a few days before. Doctor Ellis Shipp's lecture so I promptly summoned my private secretary (my pen) and we set to work to make palpable some of these reflections what a marvelous piece of mechanism the human organism presents. Page 412 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Many Utah women worked untiringly for the passage of State Senate Bill 120, allowing school districts to increase taxation for schools variously from two to six mills. With more children to educate per thousand population than any other state in the Union, it is surprising that Utah stands among the foremast states in educational achievement. This is all the more remarkable when we realize that Utah's expenditure per pupil last year was $89, as against California's $166 and New York's $178. Mr. R. H. Manning, Executive Secretary of the Utah State Educational Association, was asked to explain this phenomenon before the meeting of the National Education Association. He attributed the situation largely to the teachings of the Latter-day Saints, which particularly stress service, and to the love of learning that dominates Latter-day Saint philosophy. FANNY HURST has been honored by receiving a scroll of merit from Frederick M. Thrasher, chairman of the Conference on Coordination for Youth Service, in commendation of her books, which present sympathetically modern young people, and which offer wise solutions to their problems. MRS. JESSIE REDD URSENBACH, wife of President Octave Ursenbach of the Canadian Mission, has received national recognition of her ability as an artist. The Art Association of Montreal accepted two paintings of hers for exhibition in the Grand Central Art Galleries in New York. ONE million American Girl Scouts have done more than twenty-three million hours' work to aid the war effort by serving as nurses' aids and farm aides, tending children, and assisting in hospitals by folding dressings and counting laundry. DR. ERNEST A. HOOTON, anthropologist of Harvard University, hopes that a woman will some day be president of the United States. He feels that women's innate honesty makes them better statesmen than men are. In 1884, and again in 1888, a woman (Belva Lockwood), was nominated for the presidency of the country. WINGS AROUND SOUTH  AMERICA, by Alice Dalgleish, is a charmingly told narrative of travel in our neighboring continent. Page 413 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 32 JULY 1945 NO. 7 The New First Presidency THE women of Relief Society, along with tens of thousands of other Latter-day Saints, rejoice that even though a great and beloved leader, President Heber J. Grant, has been taken from our midst, another has been raised up to guide and direct the affairs of the Church. It is comforting to know that in these days of anxiety and sorrow the earth is not without a prophet, seer, and revelator, one appointed to receive and make known the will of the Father for his children on earth. It is not by chance nor by the whims of God or man that one is called to hold so exalted a position upon earth. The Lord has told us that he rules in the heavens above and in the earth beneath in all wisdom and prudence. He showed unto Abraham "... The intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; Arid God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast bom" (Abraham 3:22-23). Even though these great and noble spirits were chosen for their earth work before the world was, this is not enough. Page 414 They must prove themselves here; they must continue in righteousness as they live from day to day upon the earth. Thus President George Albert Smith comes to his position as head of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A great and noble spirit, born of goodly parents, he has devoted his life to the service of his fellow men and to the work of the Master. He has labored diligently in building the kingdom of God upon the earth. He has traveled far and wide carrying the gospel message by precept and example. He has sat in the highest councils of the Church, being ordained an apostle by President Joseph F. Smith when only thirty-three years of age. For the past two years he has been President of the Council of the Twelve. President Smith comes to the position of highest authority in the Church beloved by members everywhere. His tender nature, his kindly ministrations, his thoughtful considerations, not confined to the prominent alone, but extended to the least of God's children, often at the expense of great personal inconvenience, have won him a host of friends within and outside the Church. Blessed are the Latter-day Saints to have such a president in this day of tribulation.
His two counselors, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay, are men seasoned in wisdom and experienced in the work of the Church. They, too, are chosen men of God, men who through the nobility of their lives and the greatness of their leadership
have won the love, respect, and confidence of their fellows the world over.
The newly sustained First Presidency holds the esteem and confidence of Latter-day Saints everywhere. We acknowledge the good ness of our Heavenly Father in raising up able men to lead his Church, to guide his people, and to carry forward his work.?B.S.S.
Time for the Canning Program
AT this time when the efforts of women everywhere are taxed to the utmost, when calls are continually being made upon them to such an extent that the opportunity is scarcely allowed them to pursue the normal course of living, it is imperative that Relief Society members pause in the midst of their daily demands and judiciously review and evaluate the various activities in which they find themselves involved, in order to eliminate less important duties and leave ample time for essential ones.
It is recognized that the same activity will be viewed by different persons as varying in importance, however, the understanding of the great underlying principles of life which Latter-day Saint women possess, should go to form a unanimity of opinion in regard to the essentiality of certain activities. Such an essential activity is the carrying out and satisfying of every call made upon a Relief Society member in support of the great Church Welfare Plan?the Plan of the Lord given to his Church nine years ago by which
the less fortunate Church members are to be provided for in this day. Perhaps never before has so great an opportunity for service come to each and every individual member of the Relief Society. It is true that over a period of many years Relief Society members were able to contribute money for the care of the poor, but the present offering is one of individual, loving service. In the summer and fall months which lie ahead will come urgent and repeat ed calls on Latter-day Saint women to do the major work in the canning program of the Church Welfare Plan. It is hoped that each member may obtain for herself a better appreciation of the great scope of the Plan and a clear vision of its proper place in the Church. The General Welfare Plan "is not the United Order, but is motivated by the same lofty and divine principles and purposes that underlay the Order."
As a call for participation comes to any Relief Society member she will be offered the opportunity of giving her measure of devotion to this Plan in behalf of her neighbor. May no member allow an unessential activity to interfere in any way with the fullest realization of her potential capabilities in this work. May each member rejoice as she sees her efforts, aided to those of her sisters, become enlarged and increased until the results, as viewed over a period of time, will be magnificent. Numberless hours of unselfish toil and labor will lend impetus and momentum to the Plan and, on the heads of faithful, hardworking, devoted members who thus give their full support to the Welfare Plan, will rest the blessings of the Lord as promised to those who by their works show forth a love of neighbor.?M.C.S. Soliloquy Celia A. Van Cott Arid desert, land of the unconsolable Where the wailing wild winds moan Through the purple sage, where segos bloom In the land where the red men roam. Here in this disconsolate wasteland We've conquered, we've known no defeat; We've garnered the stars for our lamplight, In the bowels of the earth we found heat. Silver streams flash down the canyons, Brought from the high mountain's crest To the land of the blossoming valleys In Utah, sovereign State of the West. This Night to Remember Christie Lund Coles HE didn't say anything . . . he didn't need to. At the touch of his hand, she stood up and fitted into the curve of his arm while her hand slipped slowly up the shoulder of his dark coat. Their bodies moved together with the effortless grace of water.
The sky, through the high gymnasium window, was lighted by a full moon over which clouds moved like wind-blown thistle. A trumpet trio had stepped to the front of the stage and was harmonizing an old waltz. The lights were dim and these young people who had never learned to waltz, moved slowly, shuffling their feet, stardust in their eyes.
Boys in uniforms with girls clinging to their arms stepped through the side doors into the night. But Felice and Chad continued dancing silently, easily, as if there were no time, no future, only the rhythmic moments.
But when the tune was ended they moved to join several other boys and girls. One of the boys said, "Say, maybe we're lucky to be in engineering. For the time, at least, tonight is just another night to us. But to these other kids it's the last for a long time. They're trying to cram a lifetime into a few hours."
"How right," Chad agreed, easily, gaily, though Felice thought she saw the flesh darken above his white collar. He turned to her rather quickly and his arm tensed. "Are we five?"
She nodded, smiling into his brown eyes, and they moved toward the open door.
ONCE outside, their feet seemed automatically to go toward the south lawn of the campus where the maples in their riotous colors formed a parasol of lace over their heads, where the oaks and the silver birch stood quivering against the sky. They walked slowly, unhurried ly as they had done on many nights before, their hands clasped lightly together, a silence?deep and understanding?between them.
Finally, she said, "The boys look cute in their uniforms, don't they Chad?"
"Fine," he agreed, then clearing his throat, "It will seem strange around here with so many of them gone."
As they walked they saw couples in various places, a boy and a girl sitting close, talking in fast, incoherent sentences, trying to say things that would bridge the time until they met again.
Felice repeated, "Trying to cram a lifetime into a few hours. How can they know which are the important things to say? How could one choose?"
"Yes, how?" he repeated, steering her to the left until he brought her to a birch tree where they paused. "Remember?" he asked quietly, running his hand over the bark that had been cut with a sharp knife to form their initials. "Weren't we silly? Page 417 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 Each trying to out-talk the other, both afraid we would never have another chance to say the things we felt." "I suppose that's how it is with them tonight. They are afraid... And well they might be." "Would you be afraid?" he asked, leaning his tall length against the tree, looking down at her, a quizzical smile upon his lean features. "Perhaps. I don't really know." "What was it you said that first night, "Love isn't a part of time.' " "Oh, that. I said, 'Love has nothing to do with time or space or age.' I must have read it someplace. And sophomores are so wise." He laughed shortly, "And not wise at all when we are seniors. Who was it said that when he graduated from high school he knew it all but when he finished college he realized how much there was that he didn't know." "I wonder if anyone ever feels that he knows a whole lot?" she asked, her narrow forehead wrinkled becomingly. "I'm sure I don't. And I doubt if anyone does in these times. But let's talk about us." "There'll be plenty of time for that. In fact, there has been some little time spent on the subject... Or don't you remember?" "Sure do, lady," he assured her. "But I'm just checking to be sure I remember rightly. Are you still taking good care of that frat pin I gave you? Does it mean as much as it did before?" She looked surprised, "Why, of course, Chad." He took her hands in his, "Does it still make you dizzy when you think about me?" "But, sir, spare my blushes. Don't hold everything I say against me." There was laughter in the brown eyes she lifted to his and her wide, young mouth was parted softly. Suddenly, he pulled her to him and kissed her slowly, gently, then harder, hungrily, as though to solace a deep hurt or a dark fear. She drew back, "Now, what good would thinking about you do, after that." He tweaked her ear, laughing gently, "Come on, Twerp, if we hurry we can see Orion." "Really. Isn't it funny you've been saying that every week for over two years and it still gives me the same thrill. Seeing those stars sort of puts us in our place." LATER, when they came out of the observatory building, they paused to let the wind brush cooling fingers through their hair. They looked down over the sleeping college town, the beloved campus, the blue hills to the west. She sighed, "Another Friday night... Just like the others, yet somehow different. And now home." "Just one more thing," he whispered, huskily, laying his hand on her silken hair, "I love you." "And I love you, Chad. Lots." "I've got to tell you," he began swiftly, "I'm going, too. I'm going with the others tomorrow. I enlisted. I should have told you but I wanted tonight to be just as the other nights had been. As long as you didn't know, it was okay. But... But, if you had known I would have been tempted to ask you to run away from the crowd tonight, to ask you to marry me . . . or something."
His words had followed on one another so quickly that her choked, "Oh, Chad," had been lost in the web of them. Now, he stopped, holding her by the shoulders with his hands, looking intently into her eyes.
Her voice caught in her throat as she asked, "Could you have treasured anything more . . . than . . . tonight?"
He lifted her chin in his hand, shook his head. "No, Twerp. I'm sure of one thing, lifetimes can't be lived in that. It's like running backwards . . . you never quite catch
up with yourself. I'll know you are here, waiting. That's enough."
"And I'll know, I'll know every minute, Chad, that you'll be coming back. Tonight will be doubly precious because it was just like other nights."
They looked long at one another, kissed. When he let her go, she said, "There's just one more thing, Chad, . . . Your sister told me this morning that you were leaving."
He gave a short laugh before he whispered, "You did joke!"
Then his fingers curled hard about hers, they started down the hill, a silence?deep and understanding?between them.
PIONEER WIFE Margaret Jenkins These soft, new-broken furrows I shall love. Our hopeful part of God's productive earth. As faith and labor walk beside the plow Nobility and Peace shall find their berth. Such furrows bear the roots of all that live, The hand of him I love has turned this sod Here shall we find a fruitful destiny To work in faithful fellowship with God. And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER II Synopsis Delsa Marriott receives a letter from her fiance, Hugh Temple, with the army in Australia, asking her to release him from their engagement so that he can marry an Australian girl. Delsa is broken-hearted, and because her family and friends have long looked forward to this marriage, she hesitates to tell them that she has been jilted, and decides to keep this a secret until she can make up her mind whether or not to release Hugh. DELSA took especial pains with her looks the next morning. The little children had such sharp eyes, such inquisitive minds, such uninhibited interest in their teacher. Likely as not Rickey Graham would look at her sharply and say, "You been cryin', teacher? You tell me what's wrong and I'll fix it!" Ricky was genuinely fond of her. And there was Jeff Holden, his gray eyes kindly penetrating. She didn't want any questions, even unasked ones. During the night Delsa had made up her mind to one thing: she would not write to Hugh immediately. She would wait a little, think the matter over before she told him he was free. For she had thought of their engagement as he had done?as something as binding as a marriage vow. She had not gone out once, not even to a town dance, with anyone since Hugh left. She hadn't even thought of any other boy. Page 420 Now, by Hugh's own word, she was free to think, to look at others. Maybe she would find that she, too, had been blinded by their childhood friendship; maybe she would find that other men existed in this world. But whether she did or not, she would at least give herself time to think of a way to break the news to her family and friends; and she would give Hugh time to realize what he was doing?to realize that his letter had been a devastating thing to her?not a question to be decided lightly. "But of course," Delsa whispered into her mirror, "of course, Delsa, you can't keep him if he wants to be free. But maybe he doesn't. Maybe, if I play for time, he'll come back to his senses, his honest, smalltown senses, and to me!" Careful as she had tried to be, Delsa had evidently not succeeded in making herself look gay and carefree. She knew this by the anxious look her mother gave her when she came into the big kitchen for breakfast?a searching look, followed by bright, casual remarks, with no reference to last night. The oatmeal was bubbling in its kettle on the stove, and her mother served her a bowl full of the steaming goodness. She poured over it the thick, yellow pan cream, saying, "You're lucky, Delsa. You can eat all the cream and mush you want and not put on an ounce. It's using your brain does it, I always say. If we older women would just use our minds the way we did when we were young?"
"Now, Mom!" Delsa smiled, "maybe it isn't that. Maybe it just takes oatmeal and cream a long time to work. These breakfasts will be showing on my hips some day?"Don't you get to thinking that, Delsa. You need good food, the way you work and struggle with those kids. You eat that mush now."
But the mush didn't look good any longer. Not that she was worried about getting fat?not any more. What difference would it make? She would still be Miss Delsa, the school teacher, and her pupils wouldn't notice the gradually accumulating heaviness and slowness and dullness.
She threw a soft knit scarf over her light curls and went out into the March morning. She didn't look again into the mirror or she would have seen that the robin's egg blue of the scarf had deepened the blue of her eyes?and had deepened, also, the shadows that lay like pale wings below them.
The children ran to meet her, shrieking with joy, holding before them the bright paper pinwheels she had let them make yesterday. She laughed back at them, thinking what a pretty picture they made, running along the country road in the March wind with the red and yellow and green bits of paper whirling in front of them. Maybe, if she were an artist or a poet, she could catch this innocent gaiety and keep it, to remember that she, too, had once run free and gay with the wind and yellow pinwheels.
JEFF HOLDEN was on the hill back of the school building with the eighth grade boys, flying kites. Jeff was principal of the two-roomed school, and teacher of the upper four grades. He was also scoutmaster, crafts instructor and friend of the adolescent boys, who were feeling the hardness of the war, too, since their older brothers and neighbors?their heroes and companions and instructors in normal times?had been called away.
Jeff saw Delsa and, waving at her, shouted, "Not nine yet!"
She nodded and cried against the wind, "Nearly!"
Jeff came running down the hill, lightly and easily in spite of his twenty-six years. His dark hair was rumpled by the wind and he was laughing, but his eyes, amazingly gray in his tanned face, were tired and serious. He looked at Delsa and said, lightly, "That letter from Hugh?he's all right, I take it?"
Delsa smiled, "Hugh's letters should be posted in the post office for all to read," she began, and then caught her words back, remembering what Hugh had written.
"All the boys' letters should, I maintain!" Jeff agreed gaily, apparently not noticing the break in Delsa's sentence. "In a town this size, where every boy is sort of neighbor-hood property, the letters from all parts of the world sort of belong to us all, don't you think?"
"Well, the town does hear most of them," Delsa defended, "They're read in Church?all that are proper to be read. Even in a town like this, the boys ought to be allowed to write some private news?"
"Jeff laughed. "Grand!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 He looked at his watch, whistled sharply. Henry Lake ran into the school building and brought out the big, old-fashioned bell and began to ring it with all his might. The children trooped down from the hillside, in from the road. Delsa went inside, sat down at the piano in the "big room," and began to play a march. The pupils filed in, sedate and orderly in contrast to their actions outdoors. Going to her own room, she passed Jeff in the tiny hall that ran between the two classrooms. She paused a moment. ?You look tired, Jeff," she said, "Anything wrong at home?" He smiled at her. "Trudy was sick last night," he explained. "I don't know what is wrong with her all the time. Mrs. Reeder seems to know about babies and Davy's okay. But Trudy gets thinner and thinner." ?I?ll run over after school," Delsa promised. "I'm no child expert, but maybe I can discover what's wrong. I don't think Mrs. Reeder's too bright, anyway, with babies." "Now I have something else to think of," Delsa thought with relief. "Poor little Trudy!" And poor Jeff! Struggling as he was with two children and a housekeeper who was neither smart nor very conscientious. It wouldn't have been so bad before the war. If Jeff's wife, Lucy, had died in normal times, there would have been a dozen capable women in the town ready to help him out with his babies and his house. But now they had all gone to work at the phosphate plant in the next valley. A big bus picked them up every morning and brought them home every night ?good wages and clean work, different from the familiar drudgery of housekeeping. You couldn't blame them for taking the jobs, drawing the good pay, especially when they felt that they were helping win the war, too. Jeff's problem was a minor one in their opinion. Only Mrs. Reeder was left to help him, Mrs. Reeder, who had proved too inept for a job at the plant. But Jeff made the best of it, running his household with one hand while he managed the school with the other. Delsa knew that Jeff had been deferred officially on account of his farm, which was large enough and important enough to win him exemption. But he was doing an even more essential work in the school, and for less pay. The woman who had been principal had left to take a job in a war plant at more than twice her teacher's salary. The big boys had been getting obstreperous; the larger girls becoming a problem ?adolescents with the maturity of country children and the freedom and intimacy of a small town and a lack of supervision due to their disrupted home lives. So Jeff had stepped in and taken over the school and the whole town had felt the benefit?and would feel it for a generation or more, Delsa admitted to herself. But few of the townspeople seemed to realize what Jeff was doing. Oh, some of them reached out a friendly hand when they had time, but for the most part he was limping along practically unaided. Delsa decided to take more time from her own problems and her own activities to take a look at Trudy now and then. SHE was shocked when she entered Jeff's little house. Lucy had always kept it so sparkling and bright that Delsa had thought of it as a doll's house. Now the doll's house was in disorder?and dirty. Windows were unwashed, curtains hung limp. In a soiled bed Trudy lay whimpering. Mrs. Reeder was rocking and reading.
"Don't do no good to pick her up, Delsa," Mrs. Reeder complained. "She just likes to bawl, seems like."
"She's wet and cold," Delsa said sharply. "Where's Davy?"
"Outside." Mrs. Reeder wasn't bothered by Delsa's implied criticism. "He won't stay indoors, even if he has a cold."
"Call him in," Delsa ordered. She put a kettle of water on the stove, where the fire was burning brightly enough to keep Mrs. Reeder comfortable, and picked up Trudy. Anger surged through her at sight of the little girl. She was almost a year old?should have been rosy-poly and smiling and rosy, but she was thin and whining. What was the town thinking of to let a lovely baby like this?Jeff's and Lucy's baby?get into this shape? What ails, when Jeff stepped into the had she herself been thinking?
Delsa shrugged. She had been working on her trousseau. Every afternoon and evening, sewing, crocheting, making things for her's and Hugh's comfort and pleasure. The other women had been at their own personal activities, too. They were all to blame, she, perhaps, more than the rest. Why hadn't Jeff complained? Why hadn't he shaken some sense into her?
Davy came in, his muddy shoes making tracks across the dirty floor.
Delsa put Trudy in the big kitchen rocking chair, so that Mrs. Reeder would not have a place to sit, and said, "You watch her, Davy."
She set Mrs. Reeder to scrubbing the kitchen floor while she unmade Trudy's bed, hung the blankets and mattress on the line in the clean March wind, and hunted about for clean sheets and pillow case and clothing for the baby.
When Trudy was bathed and warm and cooing with satisfaction, Delsa set her in her crib and started on Davy. He was a sturdy little fellow, evidently able to get the things he needed in spite of Mrs. Reeder's indolence. But he reveled in the attention, so the soapy bath, Delsa had then to curl under her brisk toweling, felt it looked exactly like his father's.
Jeff came in and whistled when he saw the activity. As teacher of the "big room" and principal, he hadn't been able to leave as early as Delsa had?he generally was at the building till nearly five?so the floor was scrubbed, Trudy was gurgling and Davey was laughing, rosy and clean in his faded blue coveralls, when Jeff stepped into the room.
He smiled at Delsa, and there was more than appreciation in that smile.
"Wonder woman!" he grinned, and went on gaily, "'And the touch of her deft fingers turned a shack into a home,' unquote."
Delsa smiled back, but a little grimly.
"You've got to put your foot down with Mrs. Reeder," she said firmly. "She must just sit here all day long and let these babies take care of themselves. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 Davy, bless his heart, is a capable little fellow, and hasn't suffered too much. But Trudy is going to be ill, Jeff, really ill, unless she gets proper care." "I've been afraid of it," he said wearily, "but what can I do? I do bathe them and feed them at night, but I just don't have time in the mornings. There are the chores to do-" "Aren't there any of the older boys that could help with those?" Delsa asked. Jeff shook his head. "They've all got more to do than they can manage. Why, that little romp on the hill this morning?fifteen minutes, all told, will have to be paid for by everyone of us with extra work tonight." He walked into the bedroom and picked up Trudy and held her close, rubbing his cheek against the soft down of her hair. "Daddy's girl!" he whispered. "Daddy's girl can take it, even if she shouldn't be asked to. And he'll make it up to her some day, Trudy. That's a promise." Delsa felt the tears, sudden and sharp, behind her lashes. "Jeff,? she said seriously, "it's all right to promise, but you can't keep that promise, you know. You can't ever make up to a baby for lack of care in its first few years. It's now or never," He sighed, "Then it'll have to be never, Trudy baby, because it simply can't be now. I can't do any more." Delsa replied, "Look, Jeff. If you won't think I'm butting in where I have no right to be, I'll run over here for a half hour before school every morning and drop in again at night. I can tell Mrs. Reeder exactly what to do and see that she does it. If she thinks any one is checking on her, she'll probably work all right. Would you mind?" "Would I mind? She asks," Jeff said with wonder in his voice. "It's a deal, then," Delsa said briskly. "Now get your clothes changed and get those chores done. Mrs. Reeder will have your supper ready soon. I'll feed Trudy and then you'll be all right for tonight." Jeff handed her the baby and Delsa began to feed her hot oatmeal with whole milk and sugar. Trudy ate it greedily, making little hungry sounds as she mouthed the rich, warm food. Jeff, in his overalls now, came and stood in the doorway, watching them. "I've never seen her eat like that," he said. "She's a funny little chick," Delsa said, holding the warm body closer to her, "She wants love and cuddling, Jeff, more than most babies do. She just has to have it?" Delsa stopped, suddenly remembering that Trudy had been robbed of her natural source of comfort and love. And not only Trudy, but Davy and Jeff, too. Delsa glanced up at Jeff, and her heart constricted. Hugh! Hugh! She thought, why can't it be you leaning there in the doorway, watching? Why must I, too, be robbed of my love? She bent her head low over Trudy to hide her tears from Jeff. He turned slowly and went outside, and Delsa held the baby close, close for a moment. "That is what I've wanted all the {Continued on page 447) LESSON DEPARTMENT Suggestions and Instructions on the Educational program COURSES for the coming educational year 1945-46, October through May, are as follows: Theology ? Church History (Continued). Visiting Teachers' Messages ? Sources of Strength: Charity. Literature ? The Bible in Our Literature. Social Science ? Modern Applications of Moral Principles (Continued). Again, as was the case for the educational year 1944-45, there are no special lessons outlined for use by the missions, since it is felt that all the lessons are suitable for use in the missions either as they are written or with slight adaptations. Moreover, according to present Church procedure in regard to lesson material taught by any auxiliary, all lessons to be taught must be approved by the Church Publications Committee through the General Board. This, therefore, renders it improper for missions or stakes to substitute lessons of their own choosing in place of the theology, visiting teachers' messages, literature or social science lessons which appear in The Relief Society Magazine and have been approved. The Goal of Relief Society Teaching Depending upon the skill of the teacher, many and varied methods of conducting a class period may be followed. All Relief Society teachers are not equally trained in teaching and many fine teachers have not had professional training. The best teachers, however, are always eager to improve their methods and make more effective their teaching. It is of paramount importance, however highly skilled a teacher may be, that she teach in the spirit of the gospel and give prayerful and conscientious study to her lessons. In addition, however, to the preparation of the lesson by a teacher, she should present it in such a way as to awaken in the members of her class a wish to study and gain knowledge for themselves. This desired end may be obtained by a variety of methods?by class participation either by an informal discussion, questions and answers, or by a more formal presentation such as a round table, panel discussion, etc., or by home study on the part of individual members. Whatever the means employed by the class leader, the result will be good teaching if both she and the Relief Society class members add to and increase their knowledge and strengthen their testimonies. Page 425 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 The lessons in the Social Science course for 1945-1946 "Modern Applications of Moral Principles" are to be taught in the light of revealed truth, as these principles have been set forth in gospel teachings. Special attention should therefore be given to the use of the references to Church literature found at the end of each lesson. In all Relief Society lessons the material taught must conform strictly to Church doctrine and belief. It is a great responsibility to undertake to teach a group of fellow Relief Society women. It is also a great privilege. From the hours of intensive study spent in preparation for each Relief Society lesson by a class leader come intellectual growth and a greater understanding of the gospel. May each class leader in the coming season do her utmost to impart knowledge to her class members and also awaken in them a desire to study and learn for themselves so that the testimonies of all Relief Society members may be strengthened. While lesson titles and lesson anus for each of the courses of study for the ensuing year are given in the previews, these are subject to change. Correspondence on Lessons Ward class leaders who desire help on any matter pertaining to a lesson should consult their stake leaders. Stake leaders desiring information may address such correspondence to General Board of Relief Society, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. It is not desirable to address communications either to the authors of the lessons or to any other Church office. Textbooks and Special References Textbooks should be supplied for the use of the respective class leaders from the funds of the Society. On the completion of the course the books should be returned to the Society for inclusion in the Relief Society library. If the special references are Church books, it may be desirable to purchase one or two for present and future availability. However, if the books do not hold lasting interest, it will be better to use library copies rather than to purchase books which will have only slight use. Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not partake of his goodness? Behold I say unto you, Nay; but all men are privileged the one like unto the other, and none are forbidden (II Nephi 26:28). LESSON DEPARTMENT 427 Theology Church History Dr. H. Wayne Diiggs Preview of Lessons for 1945-1946 A preview of the second year's course of study entitled "Church History" introduces the lessons for 1945-46. Titles for the next eight lessons and their objectives follow below. It will be remembered that the central theme for the course is to be found in the Savior's words "By their fruits ye shall know them." Again we shall look at the fruits of Mormonism and find them good. By way of review we may summarize the three parts of the course once more. Part I for 1944-45 was devoted to the opening dispensation of the fullness of times and had as its objective the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the coming of the "church out of the wilderness"; Part I for 1945-46 outlines the story of the saints in their movement to "the place which God prepared" in the tops of the everlasting mountains; Part III for 1946-47 pertains to the coming-of-age period of the Church with its broadened activities meeting the swift sweep of our modern times. The main objective of the course is to narrate the more important events of Church history and to consider the revelations in their relation to the historical episodes. We revere the revelations contained in the book of the Doctrine and Covenants as the revealed word of God for our day. The titles of the eight lessons for this year's course follow: 9. The Martyrdom oi Joseph Smith Objective: To indicate the worth of a great testimony and its supreme value to the onward development of the Church. 10. Brigham Young's CaJ] to Leadership Objective: To show the power of leadership under God. 11. The Journey Westward Objective: To trace the march of the saints westward and to show that physical hardships can more easily be endured by those who are supported by the spirit of the Lord than by those who are without his spirit. 12. Building an Empire in the West Objective: To indicate the beginning fulfillment of prophecy concerning the gathering of Israel. 13. Stakes oi Zion Increased Objective: To suggest the firm and sure way the Lord has of extending his purposes in the earth. 14. The Missionary System Broadened Objective: To develop the truth that the gospel is ours, but we must strive to share it with others. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 15. The United Order Begun Objective: To show how the Lord strives always to have his children seek the more perfect social order of living. 16. The Building oi Temples Continues Objective: To show that God provides for the fulfillment of all his promises. In this second series of Church history lessons there will be need for the use of a book on Church history in addition to the Doctrine and Covenants which again is to be the text for the year. The book Essentials in Church History by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, published in 1942 by the Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, Utah, is recommended. While the lessons, it is hoped, will set the central objective for each month for the reading and discussion period, yet these necessarily short bits of writing covering but briefly the far-reaching episodes of our history, will need additional source material to enrich the story of our Church and its revealed doctrine. Essentials in Church History can provide such an enlargement of the theme. Do not lose track of the place of the Doctrine and Covenants in this study. Here, the words you will read are the words of the Lord which ever illuminate the enduring principles of life. Through all the study let us not forget our repeating phrase from lesson to lesson?we must "give heed unto his word" which has been written especially for us in this day. As to the method of class discussion, bear the following in mind: Somehow in too many lessons practically all of the material is given in the written lesson itself. The teacher covers this part fairly well. When, however, she reaches the discussion period, she poses questions that draw a weak response. To this she must then supplement her own contribution. In overcoming such difficulty there is the necessity of putting real content into the discussion period. In the case of the present series, this is done by directing class members to the words of the Lord as recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. Once a class, after attempting to answer a simple but searching question, is turned to the clear and convincing facts as phrased by the Master, hearts are warmed; and minds, seeking ready confirmation of truth, recall personal illustrations which press for expression. Testimonies result, and the teacher assumes her rightful role as director, rather than taskmaster of the hour. Text and References Doctrine and Covenants. Price $1.00. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials in Church History, (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret Book Co., 1944). Price $2.00. Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, (Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1941). Price $2.50. (This book is not endorsed in its entirety by the Church. However, references to this book included in these lessons may properly be used.) The above books may be obtained, at the prices listed, from Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah. Maps The use of maps in connection with this course will greatly aid in effective teaching. The following maps will be found helpful: Map of the United States showing route of Mormon pioneers, size 9x12 inches, available General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Price 5 cents each. (See The Relief LESSON DEPARTMENT 429 Society Magazine, July 1944, pp. 384- 385). Church History Map, compiled by A. William Lund, full color, size 32x52 inches. Limited number available at Deseret Book Company. Price $1.50. (Note: On both of these maps an error has been made in locating Harmony. The town of Harmony, now known as Oakland, should be located on the bank of the Susquehanna River, just south of the state line of New York and Pennsylvania. See map in Essentials in Church History, page 97.) Maps included in Essentials in Church History. For list, see Contents page viii. Lesson 9-The Martyrdom of Joseph Smith For Tuesday, October 2, 1945 Objective: To indicate the worth of a great testimony and its supreme value to the onward development of the Church. JOSEPH SMITH, prophet of the * nineteenth century, stood one January day in the year 1844 to address the newly appointed officers of peace for the city of Nauvoo. As mayor of the city he spoke, and within his voice was heard the prophetic tone of impending danger for himself and people. Some thirteen years had passed since the ?little flock" who first believed this modern seer had gathered at the home of Peter Whitmer that April day in 1830 to organize the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And what bright yet bitter years these had been! Half a continent had been spanned in the march of missionary endeavor. Yes, even the Old World, too, had heard the elders sent by express command of a latter-day prophet. Now around him thousands of saints had gathered, and had builded Nauvoo, the most beautiful of cities then to be found on the rich and fertile soil of Illinois. Could it be that the time had truly come when Zion was to rejoice and but hold in memory those trying days of Kirtland and Independence? His words on this January day seemed not to indicate this for he said:... I am exposed to far greater danger from traitors among ourselves than from enemies without, although my life has been sought for many years by the civil and military authorities, priests, and people of Missouri; and if I can escape from the ungrateful treachery of assassins, I can live as Caesar might have lived, were it not for a right-hand Brutus. I have had pretended friends betray me. All the enemies upon the face of the earth may roar and exert all their power to bring about my death, but they can accomplish nothing, unless some who are among us and enjoy our society, have been with us in our councils, participated in our confidence, taken us by the hand, called us brother, saluted us with a kiss, join with our enemies, turn our virtues into faults, and, by falsehood and deceit, stir up their wrath and indignation against us, and. Bring their united vengeance upon our heads. All the hue-and-cry of the chief priests and elders against the Savior, could not bring down the wrath of the Jewish nation upon His head, and thereby cause the crucifixion of the Son of God, until Judas said unto them, "Whomsoever I shall kiss, he is the man; hold him fast.? Judas was one of the Twelve Apostles, even their treasurer, and dipt with their Master in the dish, and through his treachery, the crucifixion was brought about; and we have a Judas in our midst. (Essentials in Church History, pp. 360-361; D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 152) What group of traitors from within would now essay the role of Judas and, pincer-like, provide the other prong of opposition to join with those mobocrats, from without to encircle and destroy the Prophet and his work? Somehow the storm of hate which ten years before had set the cry in Missouri, "the Mormons must go," now insidiously smoldered within the very councils of the Church. William Law, the Prophet's second counselor, together with his brother Wilson, William Marks, Leonard Soby, Robert Foster and others took offense at their leader's words and pulled away into a council of apostates who were secretly to pledge themselves to destroy Joseph Smith and his party; in fact, it was later discovered that William Law was in league with the Missourians who ever since the escape of the Prophet from their State had vowed to reach across the border line of Illinois and claim their man.
Realizing the price God had set upon the strength of a testament, (Hebrews 9:16-17), Joseph Smith repeatedly forewarned his followers of his coming death, first by visioning the ultimate need of a land beyond the rim of the great western mountains to which the saints might press for safety; and second, through his frequent words concerning the threats upon his own life. At a conference in October of 1843 he said, "This generation is as corrupt as the generation of Jews that crucified Christ; and if he were here today, and should preach the same doctrine he did then they would put him to death. I defy all the world to destroy the work of God; and I prophecy they shall never have power to kill me till my work is accomplished, and I am ready to die." (Essentials in Church History, p. 365; D.H.C. Vol. VI, page 58.)
Some eight months following this meeting with the saints, Joseph Smith with his brother Hyrum was martyred in Carthage Jail, having calmly willed to surrender to the Prophet's enemies in the assurance that the true priesthood and spirit of the Lord necessary to establish the Church of Jesus Christ were again on earth. His courageous mission had made this so. Now the work of God was a living reality as evidenced by testimonies of hundreds of faithful and devoted saints. The story of the swift and final days ending with the death of the Prophet will ever live in the hearts of those who love him, for with the unselfish gift of his own life, they may now lay claim upon the force of his testimony.
Let us briefly follow the steps of the story to see how boldly this modern seer of his own free will made the supreme gift for the Church of Christ he again established. It should be remembered that ever through the struggle to bring again the work of God in the latter days, the powers of evil bored from within as well as without. Men who at first were true, turned false, to join with those who ever hated the truth. With the increase of Church membership and the promise of peace and plenty for the saints mounting, fear and jealousy stole into the hearts of Joseph Smith's enemies. He had now become a figure of national interest. As lieutenant general of the Nauvoo Legion, as mayor of Nauvoo, and as candidate for the office of President of the United States, prominent citizens sought him, wondered at his wisdom, and often inwardly feared the divine power of his office as prophet of God. Those who could curry favor of him for their own advantage did so, and those who feared, sought secretly either to work upon the ignorance and hatred of fanatical mobocrats to bring about his overthrow, or, by failure to act in the cause of justice, used their office to wink at infractions of the law. Thus because of the words of weak-willed officers, the saints suffered; their Prophet time and again was arrested, then arraigned before a court of justice to stand trial, only to be set free.
So between the cross fire of writs which shuttled back and forth between the Governors of Missouri and Illinois, he threaded his way in and out of the trials where enraged deputies lay in wait to ambush him. Such had been his lot up to that January in the year of 1844.
During the months of February and March which followed, often his thoughts and acts were turned to constructive plans toward the fulfillment of the Rocky Mountain prophecy of August 6, 1842. It was decided to send some twenty-five men to explore all the mountain country, carrying the gospel message wherever they went. Any man who could "raise $500, a good horse and a mule, a double-barrel gun, one barrel rifle and the other smooth bore, a saddle, and bridle, a pair of revolving pistols, bowie-knife, and a good saber" might volunteer. Visioning the future of his people, the Prophet predicted that within five years the saints would be out of the power of their enemies, and asked that his
words might be written down that none "need not say they had forgotten the saying."
Spring of the year 1844 was to see events that led up to the fulfillment of Joseph Smith's predictions concerning his own death. Within this season came the dark combinations of apostates. Men who before had been high in the councils of the Church met at the fifth. Chauncey L. Higbee, Robert D. Foster, Joseph H. Jackson and Wilson and William Law together with Austin Cowles, Francis M. Higbee, Charles Ivins and Charles A. Foster were implicated in a conspiracy to kill the Prophet. When exposed, the first five named were excommunicated. Imbithered, they, with others, attempted to organize a church of their own with William Law at its head. Their efforts were doomed to failure. Frustrated, they then sought other means to satisfy their alleged plans, and they hit upon a malicious course of airing their hatred of the Prophet and his cause by means of the press. Their organ, the Nauvoo Expositor, appeared June 7, 1844. It was filled with vile slander aimed at Joseph Smith and many of Nauvoo's leading citizens. Striking at the most vulnerable spot in the body armor of saints, they attacked the Nauvoo Charter, a document of most liberal and far-reaching grants, under which the then thriving commonwealth on the bend of the Mississippi had come into being. The citizens of Nauvoo could not and would not accept this underhand thrust at their very existence. Within three days the city council met and declared the Expositor a public nuisance. The city marshal, John P. Greene, with a few men then proceeded to the printing office where they pied the type and burned the printed papers. The day following, Francis M. Higbee made complaint before Thomas Morrison, a justice at Carthage, for riot and destruction of the press. The warrant required the Prophet to go before Morrison or some other justice of the peace for trial. Here was the explosion the mobs were waiting for. Assemblies of mobocrats, speeches, resolutions, extermination orders for the "wicked Mormons" threatened the saints on every hand. Nauvoo was placed under martial law with its Legion mustered for protection.
In his effort to comply with the law, Joseph Smith appeared before Daniel H. Wells?a non-Mormon justice, but after hearing the case discharged the matter. Enemies of the Prophet claimed the trial was unlawful. It became necessary for Joseph to appeal to Governor Ford of Illinois for protection. In a letter dated June 16, the Prophet requested the Governor to make a trip to Nauvoo in order to halt the threatening danger of the saints. Ford came, but stopped at Carthage, where he surrounded himself with the worst apostates who, in league with the mobs, drowned any cry for justice. President Smith and all those accused were commanded to come and appear before Thomas Morrison of Carthage for trial, if not peaceably, then to the clank of muskets and force.
June 22nd found the Prophet with his brother Hyrum and eight of his close associates at a meeting in an upper room of his office. Shortly after the curfew hour, Hyrum came down from his room to the
House to greet Reynolds Cahoon with these words, "A company of men are seeking to kill my brother Joseph, and the Lord has warned him to flee to the Rocky Mountains to save his life. Good-bye Brother Cahoon, we shall see you again." (D.H.C. Vol. VI, page 547). It had been the decision of that evening to have the Prophet flee.
The next morning, the Governor's posse arrived in Nauvoo to find no Prophet. Shortly after noon that day, Emma Smith sent word by Orrin P. Rockwell to have her husband return; he having the night before just crossed the river. The most cutting part of the message bore the news that some of the leading brethren had accused the Prophet of cowardice. Realizing, then, that there would be those who would mistake the true reason for his departure, which was for the safety of his people, Joseph determined to return "and see the thing out." Hyrum stood one with him.
The next day found these two brothers with the accused members of the city council and a few friends riding to the town of Carthage. Behind them the green and pleasant city of Nauvoo lay under the warmth of an early morning sun in June. The rattle of hoofs and the stretch of saddle leather talked their recedies. It was a company of about sixty mounted militia, under the command of Captain Dunn, who reined to a stop the little party. Orders were to have the Nauvoo Legion surrender all state arms. Meekness and might again had met. The Prophet spoke:
I am going like a lamb to the slaughter, but I am calm as a summer's morning. I have a conscience void of offense toward God and toward all men. LESSON DEPARTMENT 433 If they take my life I shall die an innocent man, and my blood shall cry from the ground for vengeance, and it shall be said of me "He was murdered in cold blood!" Essentials in Church History, p. 376; D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 555) Defenseless and at the mercy of their enemies, once more the saints found themselves as the hour of midnight saw their Prophet in Carthage ready to stand trial on the false charge of treason against the State of Illinois. The two days that followed are black upon the calendar of eternal justice. A Governor's broken pledge, an illegal summons, the impatient cruelty of a mob that would not wait for the law, all crowded the remaining earthly hours for the Prophet and Hyrum Smith as they sat in the Carthage Jail. It was after five on the afternoon of June 27. Elder John Taylor had just finished singing for the second time, at the Prophet's request, "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief." There was a discharge of arms at the outer door of the jail. Dr. Willard Richards hastened to the window to see about one hundred armed men at the door, many with blackened faces. The guard at the door fired into the air, as a flying wedge of men burst through the door and up a flight of stairs into the room that held the Prophet and his party. Shouts rang out as a shower of bullets poured into the room. Hyrum Smith fell crying, 'l am a dead man." Joseph, struck by two balls, lunged for a window?to fall into a circle of murderers, his parting words a testimony, "O Lord, My God!" It was done. The testator of the latter day work had sealed his life's mission with blood to give enduring strength to the cause he championed. What greater gift could any prophet bestow upon his friends? Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first answer the question; second read the assigned part in the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." The class period for this opening les-soTT can be a very challenging one. There is within the story of the martyrdom much to be felt as well as discussed. The great shock of learning how innocent men were struck down by the very ones who ought to have loved them for the words of life they had taught can but leave the heart hurt and the mind forever wondering. There can be no real end to the brutal story of the death of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Such a lesson as this will bear rereading many times just as the tragic news bore retelling many times during those last days of June in the year 1844. I. What are the personal blessings you now possess which will always put you in the debt of the Prophet Joseph Smith? One or two from each person will provide interesting facts to be discussed. Following this oral report have section 135 of the Doctrine and Covenants read. 2. Discuss the meaning of Hebrews 9:16-17 in the light of Doc. And Gov. 135. The following question may be used if needed for further class activity or it may be assigned for home study: What are some of the significant interesting events that led up to the final days of martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith? Read chapters 31 to 35 in Essentials in Church History by Joseph Fielding Smith. & RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 Visiting Teachings? Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Dr. Lowell L. Bennion Preview of Lessons for 1945-1946 MESSAGES for visiting teachers this year are based on Paul's masterful and inspiring discourse on charity found in I Corinthians, chapter 13. The subject is appropriate, for charity, as Paul defines it, lies at the heart of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Then, too, the Relief Society was organized, above all other reasons, to cultivate and express the spirit of charity. In this preview we shall consider the meaning of charity and give an overview of the messages which are to follow. What did Paul mean by the word "charity"? It is clear that its meaning was not restricted to almsgiving as it sometimes is today. This is evident from Paul's early statement: "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." To Paul charity also meant more than generosity and tolerance, attitudes which are implied in the expression?a charitable heart. Paul used charity as we use the word love. Such was the meaning of charity in 1611 when the King James translation of the Bible was made. More modern translations of the Bible use the word love because of the more restricted meaning which has come to be associated with the word charity. Thus "love" is a synonym for "charity," although charity seems to have its own distinctive meaning as well (See Moroni 7:47). Love is the greatest principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For this assertion we have the word of the Master himself. It is interesting to contemplate what a certain lawyer may have anticipated as an answer to the question he put to Jesus, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" Did he, perhaps, expect Jesus to quote one of the Ten Commandments? If so, he must have been surprised to hear the answer. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matthew 22:35-40). The lawyer may well have been surprised, but not because these commandments were new, for they are included in the Mosaic law in Deuteronomy 6:5 and in Leviticus 19:18, respectively. The new thing in Jesus' restatement of these ancient laws was that he brought them together, made the second like unto the first, and made everything else in the Law of Moses and the Prophetic writings depend on these LESSON DEPARTMENT 435 two, on love. Love was to be the matrix, the warp and woof, and the heart and spirit of life. The apostle Paul, recognized for his faith in Christ, also knew that this faith must lead to love and must always be accompanied by love to be of worth, as he declared: "... And though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing." (I Cor. 13:2) "For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself (Galatians 5:14). A world ravaged by war and filled with hate is starving for love and charity. Children, parents, neighbors, fellow-Church members, the stranger within our gates, the widow, the orphan, the returning soldier, and our "enemies" all need the charity Paul describes. What do we mean by charity? How can we express our charity in daily life? These are questions to discuss through the year. The answers are suggested in this year's topics: 1. Christ's Example Objective: To show that Jesus in his own life exemplified true charity, demonstrating that a life of charity is filled with love and is free from self- pity, intolerance, envy, and hate. 2. "Charity Suffereth Long and Is Kind" Objective: To inspire patience and kindness in our human relations. 3. "Charity Envieth Not" Objective: To show that the cultivation of the spirit of charity will help rid our lives of envy. 4."Charity Vaunteth Not Itself, Is Not Pulled Up? Objective: To show that true charity is self-forgetting. 5. "Charit}* Doth Not Behave It-self Unseemly" Objective: To show that charity is tactful and courteous because it is inspired by a reverence for life. 6. "Charity Rejoiceth In the Truth" Objective: To show that one who is truly charitable rejoices in the truth. 7. "Charity Hopeth All Things, Charity Endureth All Things" Objective: To show that charity meets offense with patience, understanding, and hope. 8. "Charity Never Faileth" Objective: To encourage people to put their trust in charity as the unfailing means of improving themselves and influencing others for good. (For excellent suggestions on how these messages are to be taught, see The Relief Society Magazine, July 1944, pp- 403-404). Suggestion: Every visiting teacher would enjoy and profit by the frequent reading of I Corinthians, chapter 13. SALT FLAT DESERT Thelma Ireland In the valley stretch the salt flats Which the purple mountains hug. And the contrast makes the desert Look just like an ermine rug. Lesson I?Christ's Example For Tuesday, October 2, 1945 Objective: To show that Jesus in his own life exemplified true charity, demonstrating that a life of charity is filled with love and is free from self-pity, intolerance, envy, and hate. JESUS said, "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart; and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light" (Matthew 11:28-30).
Jesus had seen the yoke upon the oxen, how it aided them in pulling the plow. Thus, he likened himself and his teachings to a yoke which, if taken upon ourselves, would make it easier for us to bear the burden of life. More than anything else this yoke was to be the principle of Christ-like love or charity.
The life of the Master was big with love "as a tree with blossoms in the spring." His charity knew no limits, no bounds, neither height nor depth. It was everything which Paul said of charity?patient, kind, free of envy, unselfish, courteous, sincere, enduring, and unfailing.
Jesus did not discriminate in expressing his charity for men. Only the self-righteous hypocrites came under his condemnation (Matthew 23). To the rest of mankind he gave freely of himself. When his disciples rebuked parents for bothering Jesus with their young children, "he was much displeased." Moreover, he used the occasion to teach a great truth (Mark 10:13-16). So aware was he of the needs of people,
that he was sensitive to the touch of faith by the woman who dared only to feel his garment (Mark 5:24-34). Here again we may contrast the attitude of his less sensitive disciples who wondered that Jesus should discern a single touch in the midst of a crowd. Pharisees and scribes marveled and murmured because there "drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him" (Luke 15:1-2). Out of compassion he fed the weary multitude. (Mark 6) His last prayer to be recorded in full was a petition, not for himself, but for his disciples and all who should believe in him, "that they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us. . . ." (John 17:21). As he hung on the cross his final request in behalf of the Roman soldiers who had carried out the orders to crucify him, was, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do," (Luke 23:24).
A life full of charity such as that of Jesus has no room in it for selfpity, intolerance, envy, or hate. It will not be overcome by pain, suffering, and sorrow, for it will always know the joy and spiritual renewal that accompanies love. Truly Jesus' yoke of love and charity is easy, and his burden light to those who take them upon themselves. LESSON DEPARTMENT 437 Literature The Bible in Our Literature Dr. Howard R. Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1945-1946 ONE central purpose motivates this course. Its lessons are intended to help those who make an active study of them to get a clearer, more appreciative understanding of the vital role played by the Bible in the creating of our literature. Each lesson offers an alluring quest with-in this broad and fertile field. Rewards of devoted work will be more intelligent, more recreative reading, with greater skill to select literature really worth reading. From the class viewpoint, these rich returns will come only if the course as an air-pilot might say, is kept "on the beam." Manifestly, in the limited time that can be allotted to the lessons, the main goal must be kept ever clearly in view. Each lesson, it is true, will prove an "open sesame" to treasures of literature; yet the natural temptation to linger too long over the gems, must be resisted by teacher and class member if the larger, spiritual end is to be attained. It is hoped, of course, that individuals and groups will be inspired to carry on beyond the classroom in further uplifting enjoyment of precious literature that is found. Both definiteness and flexibility mark the study plan. Every lesson, a unit in itself, helps to carry forward the central theme. It points the way to discovering how the Bible, in different ways, is woven with artistry into the type of literature with which the lesson deals. At the same time, it opens opportunity to draw freely upon not only time-tested literature but promising literature of the living present, for appropriate selections and quotations to add convincing concreteness to the main message to be impressed. Lesson 1. Our Literature Before the Bible Came A study reaching back into the legendary past?when our days were named ? and songs and sagas in vigorous, alternative lines were created. Typical selections from this folklore will be used in portraying the background of primitive thought, feeling, and ideals which were later to be illumined, shaped, and spiritualized through the influence of the Bible. Lesson 2. How the Bible Is Woven Into Our Literature A study of both the outward and inward phases of the shaping of our literature through the influence of the Bible. Such more tangible aspects, as Biblical allusions and expressions, as well as those more spiritual in nature. Biblical themes and ideals, will receive attention in this lesson. Lesson 3. Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Lyric Literature A study of typical songs inspired by stories and living truths of the Bible. Selections to impress the depth and breadth of its influence in the creation of our lyric literature will be made from the classic carols on through the years down to the present. Some precious lyrics will be included in the lesson for special consideration. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 Lesson 4. Bible Influence on Our Epic or Narrative Poetry This study will center attention on certain outstanding poet story-tellers who were markedly influenced by the Bible in their creative work. Chaucer, Milton, Tennyson, Longfellow are among these. A limited selection of their well-known story poems will be used to make the message of this lesson clear and concrete. Lesson 5. Bible influence in Our Drama This study, beginning with brief attention to the old plays created to impress Bible stories, will specifically deal with other dramas through the years centering around Biblical characters and themes. Attention will also be given to the influence of the Bible in shaping and spiritualizing dramas that grip and hold the hearts of humanity. Lesson 6. Bible Influence on Our Fiction This study naturally, like those preceding, must be severely limited to consideration of a few typical and worthy novels whose themes or central characters are essentially Biblical. Its range will be from tested earlier fiction to present creations which reveal classic qualities. Brief attention will be given to the more general spiritual influence on other worthy fiction. Lesson 7. Bible Influence on Essays and Oratory Again the scope of the lesson will be restricted to the study of a few inspiring types of the essay and to certain outstanding orations that show plainly Bible influence. These will be taken from past and recent literature of these two important kinds of expression. Reliance of great writers and speakers on the Book of Books will be made clear. Lesson 8. Bible Influence in Literature for Children A forward-pointing study to help parents get closer to the book companions of their children and grandchildren. Children's literature, except for Mother Goose and Fairy Tales, is mainly of more recent creation. What of the Bible influence is revealed in most of the books produced for children today? In this lesson, directed opportunity will be given to make some selective research to answer this question, and out of it to bring to our children more well-written, Bible-inspired literature of living appeal for them. Text and References First, the lessons themselves are to be the guiding text. Each of these units should be carefully studied by teacher and members of class. Questions for study should be thoroughly considered before the lesson is given; and the suggested activities carried through, both before and after the lesson. Second, for general references the following will be found most helpful: The Bible?King James Version (also Modern Reader's Bible ?"by Moulton). General reference books may be added later. Note: Specific references will be given with each lesson. Lesson I?Our Literature Before the Bible Came For Tuesday, October 16, 1945 TN one of Longfellow's Tales of A Wayside Inn, "The Saga of King Olaf' is a poetic portrayal of the bringing of Christianity to the "Land of the Long Night." This old tale, first told to Longfellow, it is said, by the famed Norwegian violinist, Ole Bull, reveals that the message of our Master was carried into that stern realm not by any meek spirit, but by a hard-hitting viking. LESSON DEPARTMENT 439 Ringing lines from the lyric which opens the Saga, suggest the contest that lay ahead of this champion of the gospel. They sound also a keynote for this course. THE CHALLENGE OF THOR I am the God Thor. I am the War God". I am the Thunderer, Here in my northland. My fastness and fortress Reign I forever! Jove is my brother; Mine eyes are the lightning; The wheels of my chariot Roll in the thunder, The blows of my hammer Ring in the earthquake! Force rules the world still, Has ruled it, shall rule it; Meekness is weakness, Strength is triumphant. Over the whole earth Still is it Thor's-Day! Thou, art a God, too, O Galilean! And thus single-handed Unto the combat. Gauntlet or Gospel, Here I defy thee! Following this vigorous lyric, in spirit and form suggestive of songs of the long-ago Norseland, comes a stirring ballad, sketching Olaf's adventurous youth, and a spiritual awakening which led to his leadership in carrying the cause of Christ into his homeland. Opening lines of this ballad are: KING OLAF'S RETURN And King Olaf heard the cry. Saw the red light in the sky. Laid his hand upon his sword, As he leaned upon the railing. And his ships went sailing, sailing Northward into Drontheim fjord. There he stood as one who dreamed; And the red light glanced and gleamed On the armor that he wore; And he shouted, as the rifted Streamers o'er him shook and shifted, "I accept thy challenge, Thor!" With swiftly moving lines, the ballad goes on to tell how Olaf's mother, Queen Astrid, after her husband, king of Norway, had been slain by a usurper, fled with her son to a haven with "Hakon old"; how, still pursued, she again fled, this time to be captured and enslaved. Later, Olaf as a boy was recognized and restored to freedom by an uncle. Then he became a roving viking, and finally converted in Sicily by a hermit, was baptized into Christianity. Fired with the purpose of avenging his father, reclaiming his realm, and spreading the gospel through the reconquered nation, Olaf had come with his ships and fighting followers back to old Norway. He would illumine that region of the 'long night" with what had enlightened his own life. What the ideals, the inlook and outlook on life, of the rugged Northland folk were before Christianity came is mirrored in literature they created. Fortunately, in the Icelandic Eddas preserved for us, we have a wealth of their myths and legends, expressed in their vigorous, forthright style, to get us closer to their feelings and thoughts?their gods and heroes. And these same gods and heroes were in the main the very ones worshipped by not only the Scandinavian peoples, but by all Teutonic folk. In the Nihdungenlied a main source of the tales portrayed in the Wagnerian operas, are the same basic stories and characters as those in the Norse sagas. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 Anglo-Saxons, from whom came the English and Lowland Scotch, carried these tales across the Channel when they made their conquest of England. This, so far as we know, was their earliest literature. And it still is actively with us. Indeed, we pay something of tribute, though mainly without thought of it, to certain of the mythical Teutonic gods in our names of the days. Nature worship with something of mysticism seems woven into the conceptions of these deities of the Northland. Baldur, god of the sun, beloved for the light and warmth he brought to the Land of the Long Night, was honored in Sunday, first day of the week. Monday was named for Mani, a beautiful youth, who rode his shining steed, Alswider, across the night sky. Tyr, courageous war god, who gave an arm to assure the binding of the terrible Fenris Wolf, is remembered in Tuesday. Wodan, the all-father, with the ravens. Thought and Memory, on his shoulders, and with valiant heroes slain in battle, and beautiful shield-maidens, the Valkyries, ever about him, is perpetuated in Wednesday. Thor, fighter of frost giants, whose beard flares in the northern lights, whose eyes flash in the lightning, gave his name to Thursday. Freya, goddess of love and beauty, who rides through the sunny skies of spring and summer scattering flowers and fruits and bringing bird songs to cheer the northern realm, is remembered in Friday. Saturday, reserved for the last day of the week, comes from Surtur, fiery leader of the forces of evil, who, the gods ever feared, might break forth with destructive power in the last days upon their nine worlds. Confronted with conceptions such as these descriptions suggest, the bearers of our Savior's message had a difficult mission to implant principles of the everlasting gospel. Olaf, meeting Thor's challenge with blow for blow, succeeded in winning back his kingdom, and in making Christianity the official religion of his realm. Real conversion, as always, was a slower process. It had to come by weaving into the lives of the people the principles and practices of true religion. No small part of this was done through the infusion of the story and the spirit of the Savior into the national holidays. Yuletide, for example, which through untold years had been a time of feasting and drinking and wild revelry in celebration of the annual victory of Thor over the Frost Giants, was now commemorated as Christmas, in honor of Christ who came to bring "Peace on earth, good will toward men." Easter, likewise, was made no longer just a celebration of the advent of spring, with joyous pageantry in honor of the beautiful goddess Oestara. It was a holy day in soulful remembrance of the resurrection of our Savior. Another profoundly significant phase of this spiritualizing development came through the intrinsic changes wrought in our literature. Just as the old gods of Greece and Rome fell in both a material and a spiritual sense as Christianity rose, so did the gods of the Northland rather suddenly disappear. Only in Iceland, separated from the mainland by about eight hundred miles of ocean, did the sagas persist in 
original form for some centuries. That is why these stories are best preserved in the Icelandic Eddas.
Like the classic mythology of the Greeks, these sagas are, from in art viewpoint, great literature. They reflect the culture, the customs, the emotional life and ideals of that long ago. Something of a natural poetic skill was in the ancient skalds who created the strange stories. They had ample time to practice the art of story-telling during the long nights. And, since there was no printing press then, it had to be not story-reading, but story-telling.
One of the choice old tales out of the Northland impresses the basic value and the need for more such story-telling in our lives. In this mythical tale we are told that at one time, the gods, to commemorate a decisive victory over the Frost Giants, decided to create a man. It was agreed that, when the new being had been fashioned in his earthly image, each god should endow him with some precious gift. So they came, one after another to fulfill this pledge. One of the gods touched the lips of the newly created man that he might have the gift of speech; another touched his throat that he might sing. A third god touched his eyes that he might see; not only with his outward, but his inward or spiritual eye; still another touched his heart that he might have sympathy for all creatures.
And, lo, when this man spoke, it was as no other had done before. In his words one could hear the song of birds, the whispering of the breezes, the roar of the ocean, the prattle of children. All the music of man and of nature at the same time. In wondrous voice, and he became the first poet.
Basic truth is in this old tale. The poet does portray in musical lines the life he knows. In consonance with this, one feels through these sagas the courageous struggle with harsh elements?cold and darkness. Winds howl and breakers crash on rocky shores. Then comes ecstasy with the advent of the brief seasons of sunshine and revelry. Heroes of battle are extolled and tragedy accepted with something of a fatalistic attitude. Extravagant exploits are detailed, all to help while away the lengthened hours. In keeping with some of the "tall tales" and radio story-acting today, these old sagas were primarily for pastime. They gave entertainment?rather than recreation.
Had our literary development stopped there, it would have never been completely soul-satisfying; Entertainment is wanted, but not that alone. What was lacking to round out and enrich literature of long ago was just what the Bible brought. It was an infusion of spirituality, new conceptions of life, the message of the Savior. That these stalwart folk of a new life came to bring to minds to new heights.
Discussion and Activities
1. (a) Why may our English literature be said to have its roots in Teutonic lore? (b) In what ways are the mythological gods and heroes of the Icelandic Eddas and the Nibelungenlied kept in daily remembrance by English-speaking folk? Illustrate.
2. (a) What essential message is given by these mythical gods? Illustrate. (b) Which of the Commandments does this story emphasize? What are the aims it turning folk from the worship of such deities?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 3. Which lines in "The Challenge of Thor" suggest a basic cause for much of the conflict that has raged in the world from long ago until now? 4. What battle line in Europe was named for a Teutonic hero round whom an epic was created in legendary times? Tell briefly something of the story. 5. Olaf, as a fighting viking, opened the way for Christianity into his realm. What more was needed to bring the followers of Thor to accept and practice the gospel principles in their lives? Tell, for illustration, how their holidays were changed to help implant the story of the Savior, 6. (a) What is the basic difference between literature that merely entertains and that which brings real recreation? (b) To which type did the old Norse tales in the main belong? (c) What helpful guidance is greatly needed in our literature-reading practices of today? Suggested Activities 1. Read aloud the ballad "King Olaf's Return" in Longfellow's Tales oi A Wayside Inn, observing the viking spirit, the story, and musically descriptive lines. 2. Find some tale from the Northland and read it. In any of the following books, or some school reader, such stories may be found: Myths from Northern Lands, Guerber, American Book Co. Old Norse Stones, Mabie, Rand Mc-Nally Co. Age of Fable, Bullfinch, E. P. Button (Everyman's Library). Story of Siegfried, Baldwin, Scribners. ALLEVIATION Fae Decker Dix Under a pale sky, After the sun has set, I come to this valley Appealing for solace. Broad are its wheat fields, Crystal bright the stream's flow, Wild geese cry plaintively. And fly to the still hills. Something lifts within The shackles of my heart, I, too, will seek the hills At even-tide! LESSON DEPARTMENT 443 Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Dt. Harold T. Christensen Preview of Lessons for 1945-1946 THIS is to introduce the second year's series of the social science lessons dealing with problems of social ethics. As suggested by the title, our chief concern is with modern applications rather than with historical or philosophical abstractions. The world today is in trouble, and the only way that it can right itself is by a return to virtue. Major principles of morality were outlined last year but, since each of these has such a direct bearing upon the problems we are about to examine, it is suggested that the class leader review the earlier lessons occasionally and use them whenever possible as background material for the discussions ahead. The lessons prepared for 1945-46 are built around certain modern problems to which the application of ethical principles is sorely needed. Titles and lesson aims are as follows: Lesson 8. Patterns of Prejudice and Persecution Lesson aim: To emphasize the prevalence of bigotry in the modern world and to show how its existence stands as a threat to democracy, Christianity, and the good life. Lesson 9. Problems oi Personal Conduct Lesson aim: To stress the importance of personal cleanliness, balanced conduct, and self control to the good life. Lesson 10. Leisure and Morals. Lesson aim: To demonstrate a relationship between modes of recreation and morality, and to suggest ways for improving the morals of society by making better use of leisure time. Lesson 11. Women and Morals Lesson aim: To analyze some of the social and moral problems peculiar to women in this modem world, and to emphasize woman's moral role and responsibility in the field of ethics. Lesson 12. Morals In Marriage and Family Relationships Lesson aim: To analyze our most basic social institution from the standpoint of moral conduct, listing some of the common faults, and pointing out some of the principles necessary for correction. Lesson 13. Some Broader Applications of Social Ethics Lesson aim: To examine some of the inequalities and inhumanities existent in the world today, and to show that justice, when not violated, leads to both peace and happiness. Lesson 14. Morality and the Church Lesson aim: To examine religion as a moral force in life; and to point out some of the pitfalls, as well as principles, in religious ethics. Discussion questions and references at the end of each lesson are given to stimulate and guide in a general way rather than to prescribe or limit the work of the class. The teacher should read as widely as is practicable, using Church literature day Saint viewpoint, eliminating, and library materials freely. But and adapting materials as the needs she will need to be discriminating and interests of the class reveal also; sifting according to the Latter themselves. Lesson 8?Patterns of Prejudice and Persecution For Tuesday, October 23, 1945 Lesson link: Last year's lessons in this department were based upon the belief that much of the world's sorrow and suffering could be alleviated by a quick and complete return to virtue. It has been through deserting the great moral principles of the ages that individuals and nations have got into trouble, and the only way that this trouble can be dissolved and real happiness brought to the earth is by an enriched understanding of moral principles and a genuine willingness to apply them in life. Lesson aim: To emphasize the prevalence of bigotry in the modern world and to show how its existence stands as a threat to democracy, Christianity, and the good life. PREJUDICE means pre-judgment on the basis of bias, or without sufficient examination or understanding of a thing. Persecution refers to the act of annoying, oppressing, or attacking someone else to cause him injury or suffering. Prejudice is a perversion of truth and persecution is a desertion of the brotherhood principle. Both are immoral.
"Why persecutest thou me?"
These words of the Lord to Saul might well be applied to many of us in this modern day. Saul, it will be remembered, was prejudiced against the saints and had been persecuting them bitterly for some time. Then, while on the road to Damascus, he was accosted by the Lord who gave him to understand that persecution of the saints was at the same time a persecution of the Saviour. Saul repented, was converted, and later became an apostle in the church (Acts, chapter 9). But just as Saul offended city and worked against his own salvation by harming his fellow men, so do those today who, failing to catch the vision of a Christian world and the spirit of brotherhood which is an essential part of it, remain intolerant and antagonistic toward their fellow men. Selfishness, ingratitude, intolerance, discrimination, oppression?all of these and more are marks of prejudice and persecution. They are offensive to God and are a mockery of morality, and yet the world is full of them and their kind. Unless altruism can push aside selfishness, love outdo hate, and world brotherhood supplant provincialism and the exploitation of peoples, the future will not be bright and mankind will not find the peace and happiness to which it is entitled.
Personal Animosity
When people become too self-centered they lose the "social sense" discussed in an earlier lesson, and through indifference and hate they neglect and abuse their fellow men. Egoism and arrogance lead to selfishness, antagonism, and oppression. The desirable person is the one who is interested in others; thoughtful of their needs, sympathetic with their sufferings, charitable toward their shortcomings, appreciative of their services, and helpful in all things. LESSON DEPARTMENT 445 Love, fellowship, and fraternity are basic in any system of morality. But many of us during some of the time, and some of us during most of the time, fall far short of this ideal. We verbalize the good life in our worship and then fail to actualize it in life. Practice, unfortunately, too, often lags behind preachment. How many of us, for example, give even when we are not asked to, and give unselfishly with no thought of publicity or personal advantage? It has been said that for some people "faith, hope, and charity" means merely having faith in the hope that they won't be asked to give charity. Society is full of handicapped and unfortunate people. How many of us are actively looking for them with the idea of doing something to help relieve their suffering? Or, in contrast, how many of us merely rest on the smug feeling of personal self-righteousness and figure that other people can take care of themselves. If the latter, we would do well to remember that self-righteousness is really not righteousness at all; moral action of the highest order is always oriented toward society. We are our brothers' keepers. The "good Samaritan" will always get closer to heaven than the pious but selfish egotist. When social relationships disintegrate farther than selfish indifference and neglect, when they become actively antagonistic and hostile, then all the more be the need for a return to virtue. When individuals become malicious and militant in their abuse of others, resorting to ill-willed gossip, slander, and other forms of attack, to destroy what they don't like, then morals take a holiday. No system of ethics can be built upon animosity and hate. Let us remember the words of Christ when he said, *'Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you" (Matthew 5:44). If we can love our enemies as well as our neighbors, as Christ enjoined us to do, then we will have no enemies?except the enemy of evil itself. And this, of course, is the good life at its best. Partisan Animosity But partisan animosities are just as prevalent and just as serious as personal ones, perhaps even more so. Religious persecutions furnish one of the clearest examples of this prejudice, intolerance, and persecution in the world today. Many pages of the world's history are bloody with accounts of religious persecutions and wars. It is not our purpose to recount these historical details here, but it is our purpose to point out that war and bloodshed are antithetical to the Christian ideal, and the very fact that there has been so much shedding of blood in the name of religion is evidence enough that this ideal has seldom if ever been reached. Jewish persecution, or anti-Semitism as it is called, has reached new peaks in ferocity and brutality during the last decade or so. Coming mainly from Germany, the movement has spread over practically all the world until now no place is entirely free from its vicious influence. Its spirit is one of hysterical bigotry as intense as the world has ever known. Already there are signs that anti-Semitism may be gaining momentum in America. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY 1945 May it never come! Anti-Catholicism is another example of religious bigotry. There are plenty of instances where individuals have been defeated in office or deprived of other opportunities just because they were Catholics. This should never be permitted to happen in America. Latter-day Saints have so long been the recipients of intolerance and persecution from the outside that they ought themselves to be some of the most tolerant people on earth. Knowing what it is like to be on the receiving end of bigotry and mob violence, we ought to be particularly kind and sympathetic toward other groups now. And perhaps we are. But a little critical group introspection wouldn't hurt, and if made honestly it might lead to the discovery that we are sometimes indifferent or even intolerant toward some of the minority groups suffering at the hands of the prejudiced. Tolerant participation is the answer to religious persecution. The solution to religious conflict does not require an acceptance of foreign dogma. But it does require a tolerant understanding of other groups' points of view and a willingness to work together even without complete uniformity or agreement. Conviction concerning one set of dogma should not preclude tolerance toward others. The Crisis in Morality Partisan animosity and bigotry by no means end with religious persecution, but our space is short and perhaps this will suffice to illustrate. The reader may wish to supplement this with additional examples from economics, government, or other fields. But the point that the very moral structure of our society is being threatened, due to bigotry and a tendency toward expediency, must not be lost. Both Christianity and democracy were founded upon the principles of equality and fraternity; their ideas were humanitarian and unitarian in nature rather than exploitive and individualistic. One need only search the scriptures and then compare them with the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States to know that this is true. And yet we haven't been living that way; our practices haven't been in line with our professions; our actions haven't conformed to our ideals. Christians in name, we have nevertheless been quick to slander and' to persecute. Democratic in the framework of government we have nevertheless maintained our prejudices, fought for selfish vested interests, and discriminated against unfortunate minorities. All of this is undemocratic. It is also un-American, if we are big-souled enough to identify the American way with the right way. The crisis in morality is also a crisis in Christianity, and in democracy, and in the American way of life. The future of all of these institutions depends upon the victory of love over hate, altruism over selfishness, fraternity over bigotry. LESSON DEPARTMENT 447 Problems for Thought and Action 1. To provide a brief review of last year's lessons, show how happiness, progress, freedom, truth, honesty, and brotherhood all fit into an integrated moral system. Note: The class leader will find it advantageous to reread the last lesson from last year's series; i.e. Lesson 7, "Brotherhood, the Key to Greatness." 2. What do we mean when we say that morality is socially oriented? What did Jesus mean when he said, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Discuss. 3. Distinguish between personal and partisan animosity and illustrate each. What should be our attitude toward the handicapped and the unfortunate? Why? Use scripture to support your position. 4. Give examples of anti-Semitism. Of anti-Catholicism. Of anti-Mormonism. Compare. Why should Latter-day Saints be particularly tolerant of other peoples? Are we more tolerant than other people? Give examples on both sides of this question and make suggestions for improvement. What is the solution for religious persecution? Discuss. 5. Do you agree that Christianity and democracy are ethical ideals that have not yet been reached? Make suggestions for reaching these ideals. Do you think that the world would then be any more happy? Any more moral? Why? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Proverbs 16:16-19; Matthew 5:43-48; 6:14-15; 7:1-5; Mark 12:28-31. Luke 6:27-28; 10:25-37; 23:33-34; John 8:3-11; Acts 9; I Corinthians 13:1-13; Ephesians 4. Books by Latter-day Saint Authors: Discourses of Brigham Young, "Our Fellow Men," chap. 24, pp. 417-432. Taylor, President John, Gospel Kingdom, "Truth, Error, and Tolerance," p. 49- Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith (12th Ed.), "Religious Intolerance'"; "Intolerance is Unscriptural"; "Toleration Is Not Acceptance," pp. 398-404. And For Eternity (Continued from page 424) " she whispered time," she whispered to herself, "Hugh's baby on my lap?Hugh watching me?And I can have it if I only hold on?Hugh will come back!" She got up and laid Trudy in her crib, kissed Davy lightly on his dark curls, and went out into the March twilight. And suddenly she was running down the road, swiftly, to the shelter of her home and her room and her thoughts of Hugh. (To he continued) "MISSING ? Mabel Jones Gabbott I shall shell my peas by the picket fence, Down in the corner. I know a place Where the clover is cool and green and dense. There I shall sit. Then the look on your face, Your halting words, and the news you tell Will sift themselves till my heart finds ease And be reconciled that all is well. There in the clover I'll shell my peas. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. (Continued from page 394) sham, insincerity, pretense he will not practice. President Clark?s loyalty and devotion to President Grant has been a touching and beautiful thing to see. We dare venture that from hi President George Albert Smith will receive the same sincere and undivided fealty. President David O. McKay (Continued from page 396) ence in Church activities since early eminently qualified him for the re-boyhood, his devotion to duty as a sponsible position to which he has member of the Council of the been called as second counselor to. Twelve Apostles, and as counselor President George Albert Smith. Velma Nebeker Simonsen (Continued from page 408) army; Robert, a high school student and Richard, aged twelve. Anything Velma undertakes she does with thoroughness, competence, and skill. She is a good neighbor, a thoughtful friend. She is intelligent, progressive, alert to improvement. Above all, she is zealous in her love of the gospel and her service to the Church. She is the embodiment of the thirteenth Article of Faith: ??If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy,? she seeks after these. MY HOME Minnie I. Hodapp The trailer-man says, "Roll your home And through the world enchanted roam; Indite each night a travelogue By hill or lake or river bog; Upon the highways of the world Your destiny shall be unfurled." But I, who own a meadow-nook, With buttercups and sunny brook, Would in one selfsame spot abide Along the open country-side, Oh, not for me to rove and roam! I cannot roll my home-sweet-home! IT IS NOT TOO LATE for busy Relief Society Members and Officers to study during the SECOND TERM of the SUMMER SCHOOL SESSION at Brigham Young University Provo, Utah July 23-August 24 MUSIC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY BLESS THIS HOUSE 15c HOMING?Del Riego 15c MY OWN AMERICA?Wrubel 20c LITTLE OLD GARDEN.15c HOME?Van Steeden 15c AMERICAN PRAYER 15c Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount, plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 Good News For Bible Students! We can now supply these excellent helps: The Graphic Bible by Lewis Brown - $1.50 Cruden's Bible Concordance $2.50 Dummelow's One Volume Commentary $3.00 Smith's Bible Dictionary $2.00 Irwin's Bible Commentary $2.50 Hurlbut's Bible Atlas $3.50 Historical Atlas of the Holy Land $1.00 Treasures from the Bible ? $2.50 A Visit to the Holy Land by Thomas E. Romney $2.50 and BIBLES, a good stock at last at prices $1.50, $3.00, $4.00, $4.50, $5.00, $6.00, $8.00 and $10.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" When Baying Mention Relief Society Magazine HOME CANNING ? critical need in 1945 Despite the shortage of sugar the fruit crop must be saved. Get the sugar you are entitled to have... And use it wisely for home-canning. Pure sugar from western beet fields is unexcelled in quality for canning or any sweetening or cooking use. Always buy U and I. Product of Western Farms Perfect for every use 