VOL 32 NO. 9 Lessons for December SEPTEMBER 1945

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Blanche B. Stoddard Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Mary G. Judd
Luella N. Adams
Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Priscilla L. Evans
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Ann P. Nibley
Leone O. Jacobs
Leone G. Layton
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 32 SEPTEMBER 1945 NO. 9

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
The Missionary Work of the Church Its Contributions to the Church and Its Individual Members Elder Thomas C. Romney 515
Susan B. Anthony President Amy Brown Lyman 519
Postwar Planning: To Mothers, Wives, and Sweethearts (Excerpt) President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 523
Settling Raymond, Alberta, Canada Jennie B. Knight 524
Planning For Safety Nellie O. Parker 545
His First Teacher Mildred Y. Hunt 547
The Radiant Spirit A Fantasy Miranda Snow Walton 549

FICTION
Stay As Sweet As You Are Ada B. Monson 529
Beyond This Dorothy Clapp Robinson 541
And For Eternity Chapter 4 Olive Woolley Burt 551

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 534
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 535
Editorial: Regular Weekly Relief Society Meetings Begin President Belle S. Spafford 536
The Constitution of the United States 537
Notes to the Field: Auxiliary Regional Meetings and Monthly Union Meetings Authorized 538
Ward Relief Society Conferences, November 4, 1945 539
Notes from the Field: Special Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Blanche B. Stoddard 557
Work-Meeting Plan Now For Christmas An Apron Day For Christmas Gifts 563

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: The Journey Westward Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 565
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Charity Envieth Not Dr. Lowell L. Bennion 570
Literature: Bible Influence As Revealed in Our Lyric Literature Dr. Howard R. Driggs 571

POETRY
Bear Lake Frontispiece Luella Nebeker Adams 513
New Testament Dott J. Sartori 518
Desert Born Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 533
Today Dorothy Mae Halls 540
The Lane Daphne Jemmett 544
Mates Edward R. Tuttle 548
The Song Helen Kimball Orgill 550
Trial and Error Eva Willes Wangsgaard 555
Hollyhocks Della Adams Leitner 556
Presence Alice Morrey Bailey 556
My Kitchen Windows Violet Harris Hendrickson 564
The Close of Life Evelyn Fjeldsted 575
Mountain Song Ivy Houtz Woolley 576

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000


THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 32, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1945 BEAR LAKE Luella Nebeker Adams In a quiet, secluded valley Surrounded by the mountains high, Rests a jeweled lake of sapphire Blending into azure sky. Soul-inspiring in its beauty, Changing in its mood and hue From soft tones of gray and silver To clearest shades of brilliant blue; Mirroring the day's first sunbeams, Shining down in glorious light; Rays are turned to water prisms. Multicolored, diamond bright. Afternoon?clouds bank about it, North winds blow, and billows roar, Wild waves chase each other, playing, As they race to reach the shore. Retreating day?the sun descends? Lavish color in the west; Across the lake the setting sun. In brilliance, sinks to rest. Peace and quiet steal o'er the valley. Placid, calm the lake, and clear; The evening star keeps watch, reminding That the Infinite is near. The Cover: "Fruited Bough" from a photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D. BEAR LAKE AT GARDEN CITY, IDAHO -Glen Perrins The Missionary Work of the Church-Its Contributions to the Church and Its Individual Members Elder Thomas C. Romney President Central States Mission How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth (Isaiah 52:7). And these are they who have published peace, who have brought good tidings of good, who have published salvation; and said unto Zion, Thy God reigneth 1 And O how beautiful upon the mountains were their feet! And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that are still publishing peace! And again, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those who shall hereafter publish peace, yea, from this time henceforth and forever! (Mosiah 15:14-17). 
THUS sang Isaiah, the great Jewish prophet, more than seven hundred years before the birth of the Savior, and an American prophet several centuries later took up the refrain. Indeed it has been a theme of the prophets down through the centuries.
The Master of the world both by example and precept confirmed, in a superlative way, the truth of this message, and is appropriately referred to as the Prince of Peace. At the beginning of his ministry, he called to his aid twelve men, designated apostles, to declare the gospel of the kingdom to the world, first to the Jews and then to the Gentiles. All but a handful of the Jews rejected their Lord and his message of peace and "nailed him to a tree." It seemed that Christianity was doomed to perish from the earth. But out of Tarsus of Cilicia was to come forth a man of the tribe of Benjamin who was destined to go down in history as one of the greatest missionaries of all times. This character was of such potential worth to the cause of Christianity that the risen Redeemer paid him a visit following the Lord's resurrection and rebuked him saying, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" And he said, "Who art thou, Lord?" "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. ... Arise, and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do." Saul was obedient to the heavenly command and Ananias baptized him into the kingdom following a visitation of the Master, who said: "For he (Saul) is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel." How well Saul, now Paul, fulfilled this commission is a well-known story to the student of the New Testament. Practically the whole of the Mediterranean area was covered by him, and many converts were added to the Church. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 However, gross darkness ultimately covered the earth and the voice of prophecy was heard no more over the centuries. But at the beginning of the nineteenth century, the heavens were again opened. By divine command, the Church of Jesus Christ was restored to earth through Joseph the Prophet. Soon thereafter, the same voice, which nearly two thousand years before had called the lowly Galilean fishermen from their nets to become fishers of men, was heard again, saying: Behold I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come. And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up.... Wo, I say again, unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony of me; For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their wickedness. And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work which shall be cut short in righteousness (Doc. And Gov. Sec. 84:87 et seq.). THE first great missionary movement in this dispensation was inaugurated in the fall of 1830 when the Church was only six months old. A company of four elders, headed by Oliver Cowdery and Parley P. Pratt, was appointed by the Lord to bear the gospel to the Indians at and surrounding Independence, Missouri, on the frontiers of Western America. Their labors met with but little success among the Lamanites, but a rich harvest of souls was garnered by these men at Hyrum in the vicinity of Kirtland, Ohio, resulting in a migration of the Church from Fayette, New York, to Kirtland, which now became its headquarters. A little later the gospel was taken to Canada by Parley P. Pratt, where he found awaiting him a noble band of God-fearing truth seekers under the leadership of John Taylor, later to become a president of the Church. From here the gospel was finally to cross the broad Atlantic to the British Isles. The missionary work of the elders in the British Isles, under the able leadership of Heber C. Kimball, was phenomenal. Thousands, in the course of a few months, became identified with the Church, many of whom migrated to Zion. The opening of the British Mission occurred in the fateful year of 1837, a year fraught with great peril for the Latter-day Saints. A financial crisis, nation wide, left its impress upon the membership of the Church. The "Kirtland Safety Society" sponsored by the Prophet and other leading brethren of the Church failed as a result, largely, of poor management. The cashier of the institution, a one-time faithful elder, was found guilty of immoral conduct and of misappropriating the funds of the society to the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars, thus placing the institution in a precarious condition. The Prophet gave warning of the impending disaster, but without avail. He therefore resigned his position as president, and withdrew from the concern with the remark, that "no institution of the kind, established upon just and righteous principles for a blessing not only to the Church, but to the whole nation, would be suffered to continue its operations in such an age of darkness, speculation and wickedness." MISSIONARY WORK OF THE CHURCH 517 Added to this financial disaster was the terrible treatment given our people in the State of Missouri by their enemies. They had been driven from their homes in Jackson County, and for a brief period had found respite in the northern and eastern counties. In the year 1837, the hydra-headed monster of vilification and persecution had begun to raise its head. As a result of the financial difficulties and bitter persecution, a dreadful wave of apostasy swept through the Church, carrying to their spiritual deaths, many of the leading officials of the Church, including several of the Twelve Apostles. The awful state of affairs led the Prophet to remark that it seemed *'as though all the powers of earth and hell were combining their influence in an especial manner to overthrow the Church at once, and make a final end." In this hour of deep sorrow and anguish, the Prophet appealed to the Almighty for wisdom and guidance, and in response came the voice of the Lord declaring that something new must be done for the salvation of the Church. Accordingly, on the 4th day of June, 1837, Elder Heber C. Kimball was called by the Prophet, while in the Kirtland Temple, "to preside over a mission to England, to be the first foreign mission of the Church of Christ in the last days" (D. H. C., Vol. II, page 489). In like manner, as the missionary labors of Paul and his associates saved the Church in ancient times from dissolution for a brief span, so did the preaching of the gospel in foreign lands by Heber C. Kimball and his companions save the Church in these latter days. The distinguishing difference between these two events was the fact that the Church of Christ in the meridian of time was not destined to survive the ultimate ravages of apostasy, while assurance has been given by the Almighty that the Restored Church shall stand forever amidst the wreck of nations and the crash of worlds. Not only has missionary work been the saving power, but also the enricher of the Church. I refer not to things of a material character, but to contributions on a spiritual and intellectual plane, as represented in language, literature, philosophy, and art. Every year over a period of several decades the Church has been represented by an average of two thousand young men and women, who have traveled as missionaries in most of the countries of the world. The return of these young people to the body of the Church has meant the infiltration of new ideas and new methods of doing things, thus rendering our culture the most cosmopolitan to be found in the world. Not only has enrichment come to the Church as a whole, but the development to be noticed in the missionary upon his return home is little short of phenomenal. He went into the world an inexperienced youth from the farm, the workshop, or the class room; he returns a well-rounded individual prepared through his experiences to meet almost any exigency that may arise in his journey of life. These young people have been called home to wear the colors of their country for the duration of the war, thus leaving the responsibility of preaching (at the Church upon the shoulders of a few of the older brethren and sisters and a very limited number of our young women, together with local brethren and sisters who are called to do part-time service.
But in spite of these restrictions, I am bold to declare that never before in the history of Mormondom has the leaven of Mormonism been more widely diffused than at the present time. The Church has nearly ten per cent of its membership in the service of the country. The vast majority of these young people, both by example and precept, are pleased to bear witness of the restored gospel to the great numbers whom they meet daily. Some of the strongest branches that we have in the Central States Mission are largely officered by servicemen and women, and the predominance in membership is composed largely of that class. Our branch at Ft. Sill, Oklahoma, is a splendid example of this. I think no finer, energetic
group of worshipers can be found anywhere in the Church than these army men and their wives. And what can be said of Ft. Sill can truthfully be said of many such branches throughout the world.
The spirit of these servicemen was beautifully expressed by a young man in an address before our Topeka conference recently. Following are his words as nearly as I can remember them:
My government has spent a great deal on me to make me a good soldier. It has supplied me with everything that modern ingenuity can devise for my comfort, with arms and ammunition, together with their proper use, as well as with other equipment, including the finest and most perfect protection that I shall carry with me when I go overseas to engage in combat for the Priesthood of the Son of God which I prize above all else. Upon it I shall rely, and I pray that I shall exercise it in righteousness before the Lord.
Some of our number have expressed themselves as feeling that we are in the process of gleaning human souls, but I am convinced that following this war, with the gospel seeds that are now being sown by our young men and women, we shall reap the greatest harvest in the whole history of the Church. God grant that this may be so. NEW TESTAMENT Dott J. Sartori Here, within this black morocco cover. Abide His word and sacred ministry, Among these printed symbols angels hover, And here is light to set the prisoned free. Susan B. Anthony President Amy Brown Lyman ONE hundred and twenty-five years ago on February 15, 1920, there was born to the Daniel Anthony family of South Adams, Massachusetts, a baby girl, little Susan?a child of destiny she proved to be?whose later advent to the world of human affairs wrought changes which affected the lives of women everywhere.
Susan B. Anthony was known and is remembered today as one of the most outstanding women of her century. This recognition came to her because of the great work she accomplished in forwarding the cause of woman suffrage in America. For forty-eight years she devoted herself to this great movement, traveling throughout the country, speaking, lecturing, debating, and organizing the women into working units. She even swept halls, carried chairs and benches, bought and placed candles for lighting, and then did the speaking. She also traveled in Europe, discussing woman suffrage with noted men and women in both England and Germany.
She was associated in this pioneer movement with a number of forward-looking leaders, but there were three who stood closest to her and gave the greatest support. They were Elizabeth Cady Stanton who was known as the true mother of woman suffrage in the United States?for that matter in the world, organizing as she did the first Woman's Rights Convention in the world, at Seneca Falls in 1848; Lucretia Mott, the
eloquent Quaker preacher and anti-slavery leader; and Lucy Stone, social reformer, who stood and worked for all types of social betterment, and who, after graduation from college, a rare privilege for women in those days, decided that she would dedicate her life to make life easier and better for women. These four leaders were called the Big Four, and the Four Giants of the early suffrage movement, but Susan B. Anthony carried the major part of the burden and was known throughout the nation as the greatest and mightiest warrior for women.
One who wrote her life says:
Every girl who now enjoys a college education; every woman who earns a living in any profession or trade; every wife who is protected in the property which she owns; every mother who has an equal right with the father to the custody and control of her children; every woman who belongs to a club and works for individual and civic improvement; every woman who is privileged to vote owes these sacred privileges to Susan B. Anthony above all others.
Miss Anthony did not live to see the fulfillment of her dream, which was full suffrage for women, but her spirit ever carried on as a guide and inspiration to her successors. She passed away in 1906 at the age of eighty-six, fourteen years before the crest of victory?the passage and ratification of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, which occurred in 1920 and which gave the vote to women.
Susan B. Anthony was fortunate in her heritage, background, and early training. Page 519 GROUP OF NATIONAL AND LATTER-DAY SAINT SUFFRAGE LEADERS, 1895 Lower row, left to right: President Zina D. H. Young, Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Susan B. Anthony, Sarah M. Kimball, Mary C. C. Bradford. Top row, left to right: Mrs. Ellis Meredith, Margaret A. Caine, Electa Bullock, Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, Phebe Y. Beattie, Emily S. Richards, Emmeline B. Wells, Rebecca E. Little, Augusta W. Grant. Born in a Quaker home, she was reared in an atmosphere of freedom, independence, and moral zeal. She was a precocious child, learning to read at the age of three. She had an unusual memory, an inquisitive mind, and a great desire for learning. She had fair opportunity for schooling as the elementary schools of the Quakers were open to girls as well as boys. Then there was a period of training at a female seminary in Pennsylvania where she prepared to be a teacher. With her sisters she was encouraged by her father to be industrious, to find a gainful occupation, and to strive for independence. For one who was in later life to champion humanitarian causes, including the rights of women, she was fortunate in being a member of the society of Friends which gave unusual opportunities for women members. From the very beginning the Quakers had given women an equal place with men in their church services and their church government. Women were permitted to speak in church whenever they felt inclined to do so, and some even rose to the dignity of regular preachers. It was only natural, therefore, that this church furnished many of the early American women leaders who worked for temperance, anti-slavery, equal rights, and suffrage. Miss Anthony began her public career at the age of seventeen as a school teacher in Conajoharie, New York. SUSAN B. ANTHONY 521 She was happy and successful in her work, but she was not satisfied to confine her interests and activities entirely to the schoolroom. She was intelligent, well-read, a careful thinker, had great power as an executive and organizer. She was public spirited and she felt the urge to widen her horizon and enlarge her field of effort. She was interested in all the public questions of her day, and set out to tackle some of the social and economic problems. She insisted that women felt the same call to serve and help with the world's work as men, and might prove as able. She even advanced the revolutionary idea that women were the social and intellectual equals of men, for which she received caustic criticism. "PROM the days of her childhood she had abhorred human slavery, as did her Quaker father before her. So opposed to slavery was Daniel Anthony that he went to great pains to try to get cotton for his cotton mills which did not have the taint of slave labor. The temperance movement also early claimed Susan's attention and support. So vigorous was she in these two great causes that she was known as a militant abolitionist and a valiant advocate of temperance. In 1852, when she went as a delegate to a joint meeting of the Sons and Daughters of Temperance in Albany, New York, and arose to speak to a motion, she was quickly told that women were not invited to speak, but to listen and learn. In 1853, she attended a teachers' convention at Rochester, N. Y. After listening for hours to a dull discussion on the subject of teaching, she arose and asked permission to speak. The chairman, astounded and perplexed, asked for the pleasure of the convention, and after a one-half hour's discussion and a vote, it was decided by a small majority that she might speak. She attended many public meetings and conventions and when men hoped that she would be silent, she insisted on being heard. Before long Miss Anthony found herself fighting other social evils, in addition to slavery and the evils of drinking, such as low wages for women, the lack of opportunity for higher education and professional training for women, lack of opportunity for holding office in volunteer organizations, and restrictions which kept women from being on an equal plane with men before the law. Like other women reformers. Miss Anthony sensed her limitations. She felt continually handicapped on every side and wondered what could best be done to give women more influence in human affairs. She realized, too, that to attack specific evils and injustices one by one was a slow process. She became convinced that women should work for total freedom. It was at this time (1852) that she became converted to and joined the Woman's Rights Movement, which program included suffrage, and which she was destined to lead. After long years of effort, the Federal Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, granting suffrage to women, was introduced in both the House and the Senate of the United States, April 17, 1913. It was christened the Susan B. Anthony Amendment. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945Six more years elapsed before Congress passed the Amendment. On May 21, 1919, it passed the House of Representatives and on June 4, 1919, it passed the Senate. Before it could become effective, however, it was necessary that it be ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the states. On August 18, the final state to ratify, Tennessee, gave woman suffrage the constitutional majority it needed and victory was won. The amendment which stands now as the law of the land reads as follows: Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. Section 2. Congress shall have power by appropriate legislation to enforce the provisions of this article. Susan B. Anthony was a faithful and loyal friend to the women of Utah. She kept in touch with them all during her period of leadership, and they worked closely with her in the cause dearest to her heart. She visited Utah on a number of occasions, and from the year 1879 Utah sent delegates regularly to the meetings of the National Suffrage Association, where they took active part in the deliberations. She rejoiced with them when they had the vote from 1870 to 1886; and because of their experience and knowledge and their training in organization work, she solicited their interest and help in her national program. She sympathized with them when they were disfranchised by the Congress of the United States in 1886, and stood by them as a true, faithful friend. She rejoiced again with them when Utah became a state, in April 1895, "4 44 State constitution included a clause giving them full suffrage. She immediately wrote Mrs. Emily S. Richards of Salt Lake City, Chief Organizer for Utah and a member of the National Executive Committee, as follows: Well I am glad you are all awake to the cause out there in Utah. You have the power in your own hands, and if you do not move on to better things political, it will not be the fault of the men alone, you women will be equally responsible with them. You cannot therefore afford to be idle or indifferent to the political action of your city and state. With love to all and yourself the most, Susan B. Anthony. One month later, May 12, Miss Anthony and Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, who were touring the West, visited Utah where they were enthusiastically received. A suffrage conference for two days was held, followed by a reception given in their honor by Mr. And Mrs. F. S. Richards at their beautiful home. Hundreds of people attended, including State officials and military officers from Fort Douglas. Governor Caleb W. West and his staff in full regalia stood in the receiving line with the host and hostess and honored guests. The sincere love of the women of Utah and of the Relief Society for Susan B. Anthony was demonstrated at the time of her death, early in March 1906, when a memorial service was held for her in the Salt Lake City Assembly Hall on Relief Society anniversary day, March 17. To Mothers, Wives, and Sweethearts President Reuben Clark, Jr. Excerpts from an address "Postwar Planning" delivered at the Friday afternoon session of the 115th annual general conference, April 6, 1945, in the Assembly Hall. I WOULD like to say a word about the returning soldier, that being a question about which we all talk and hear so much. I said something about postwar planning at the last conference and pointed out that we could and should plan to bring our soldiers back to homes of purity, chastity, and of righteousness, and that it took no worldly position, no wealth, to carry on that postwar planning. I want to add just a word along that line today... To bridge over the time when they [soldiers] return as heroes for achievements in war, until they may resume their peace-time occupations and become heroes in peace and in peaceful occupations, to bridge that over is one of the tasks we shall have to undertake and to which we must give our best effort and best thought. I am not thinking of the temporal side of the bridge-over, I am thinking of the spiritual side, and what that means; and in that connection it seems to me that they who are to play the greater part are the mothers, the wives, and the sweethearts of those who return. When all is said and done it will be our sisters who must take on that great load and that tremendous responsibility. Radio programs, magazines, and newspaper columns are more and more filling with instructions about how to treat our returning soldiers. All the deductions of modem psychology, and its kindred mental sciences are paraded for the guidance of the wives, the mothers, the sweethearts, in meeting, winning, and holding the boy back from the war. But I would not exchange the unerring inspired instinct of a good woman, fired with mother love, or wife love, or the love of a loyal, chaste sweetheart, for all that men have ever written. The boys say they do not wish to be regarded as problem children. They want to get home and enter again the family circle, and in its sacred precincts again to take up life and forget hate, carnage, and death. I believe their cry will be, "Let us live again in love"; and you mothers, wives, and sweethearts can bring to them this blessing. None other can. So in this crisis we turn to the women of the earth to save them and to save us men from ourselves. So it has been, in reality, in every great world crisis, however much it may have seemed otherwise. Yours, you sisters, has been the loyalty that has never wanted; your courage has not failed, has not been daunted, whatever the odds. You have often recognized a lost cause long before your men folks; you frequently have seen victory long before it came within the vision of those who battled. Your joy and tenderness and fortitude have succored the wounded and eased the passing of those who are called beyond. You never fail in kindness and mercy; your love endures forever. May God bless you, for you are angels of mercy. So, you mothers, wives, sweethearts, take into the sacred precincts of your heart around the altars of your homes these souls wounded in body, in mind, in spirit, and heal them as you alone. Page 523 Settling Raymond, Alberta, Canada Jennie B. Knight Former Member Relief Society General Board RAYMOND is situated in Southern Alberta, Canada. It was founded by Jesse Knight of Utah, and named after his oldest son. It was built by pioneers who had faith in its future, and it took real pioneers with courage, thrift, good judgment, and faith to cope with problems that confronted the early settlers of that region. That they were victorious and are still a prudent, progressive, and religious people is shown in their beautiful modern homes and schools, churches and public buildings, their farms and ranches, factories, mills and elevators that today dot the land as far as the eyes can see. The name of Jesse Knight is so interwoven in the history of this commonwealth and the surrounding territory that it is fitting to relate how he came to be its founder. He was a man who had implicit confidence in the leaders of his Church. At the ushering in of the twentieth century, President Lorenzo Snow sent his New Year's greeting to the world. This message greatly impressed Brother Knight who at that time was receiving great wealth from his metal mines in Utah. In this message, he read: Men and women of wealth, use your riches to give employment to the laborer! Take the idle from the crowded centers of population and place them on the un-tilled areas that await the hand of industry. Page 524 Unlock your vaults, unloose your purses and embark in enterprises that will give work to the unemployed and relieve the wretchedness that leads to vice and crime around you. Make others happy and you will be happy yourselves. Many propositions had been made to Brother Knight to invest his money, but none appealed to him until he heard about Canada. However, Apostle John W. Taylor and Charles McCarthy of Alberta came to see him and told him of the fertile lands in Southern Alberta and urged him to buy some of the thousands of acres. The project impressed him. He could see the possibility of using his money to magnify his "stewardship,*' for it was only as a steward, he believed, that wealth came to him. In the spring of 1900, he sent his two sons, Oscar Raymond and Jesse William, to Canada to investigate the situation, the result being that they purchased 30,000 acres of land and set to work to stock it. Later, their father met them in Canada. The weather was ideal, the country beautiful and green. It looked like a real paradise to Jesse Knight. He was there only a few days before he had a clear idea of what he wanted to do. He would build a sugar factory that would give employment to Latter-day Saints and others who would come where they might secure land on easy terms and make homes for their children and themselves. On July 10, 1901, he purchased 226,000 acres of prairie land from the Canadian Northwest Irrigation Company and the Alberta Railroad and Irrigation Company through their agent, Hon. C. A. Magrath. SETTLING RAYMOND, ALBERTA, CANADA 525; THRESHING SCENE IN RAYMOND, CANADA, ON THE HEREFORD RANCH Yield, sixty bushels to the acre He signed a contract to build a sugar factory, and have it ready to handle the beet crop in 1903 and to keep it in operation for twelve years. This contract was guaranteed with a pledge of $50,000. Who but a man of faith could have made such an agreement in so short a time with nothing but a vast, grass-covered prairie surrounding this location? RAYMOND townsite was selected soon after the contract was signed, and on a bright Sunday afternoon, at the request of Presi-ident C. O. Card, friends from neighboring towns and ranches met to dedicate this townsite. There was not a tree, or even a tent to be seen as they stood on the buffalo-trodden soil to participate in the exercises. In the town charter, which was read. Brother Knight had insisted that it contain a forfeiture clause to the effect that if liquor, or gambling houses, or places of ill fame were established on the premises, the property holders would forfeit title to the land. The dedicatory prayer was offered by Apostle John W. Taylor. Songs of praise and thanksgiving filled the air and a feeling of welcome and good will was felt by all. The town of Raymond grew rapidly,, for in less than two years there were over fifteen hundred settled there. Most of them were young, including many college graduates. Buildings sprang up with mushroom rapidity, the blacksmith shop of Ephraim Hicks being the first to break the horizon. Many of the early homes were of the ?lean-to" type, just one room with a slanting roof to which other rooms were added later. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 A church with a heating plant was built by Jesse Knight. This and the school house were the first public buildings erected. Charles McCarthy and T. O. And Louis King were the first to build mercantile stores. B. F. Rolf son was a carpenter and his house was the first to be finished. HANNAH GIBBS, who planted the first tree, arrived on September 3, 1901, with her nine children. George Munn, William Lamb, and families came September 2d. They experienced real difficulty in pitching their tents, as there was a bleak blizzard when they emerged from the mixed freight and passenger train. A number of families lived in tents during the first winter. Water for culinary purposes was hauled in barrels from the canal until Ray Knight had it piped into the center of town, and from there it was still hauled to the homes in barrels on sleds. In winter, the water was always frozen in the barrels, and if one wished a drink he had to chop the ice and melt it. Hannah Gibbs became the community nurse and doctor. She had her first experience as midwife March 16, 1902, when the first boy, Raymond Holbrook, was born. This nurse, taught by experience and faith, brought numerous babies into the world. She nursed each mother and babe for ten days for which service she received five dollars. She never lost a case. Even after Dr. Rivers settled in Raymond she was still called in on many occasions. Jessie Nilsson, a girl, was the first child born in Raymond. In the spring of 1902, people came very fast by rail, or overland with teams and wagons, driving their cattle. This spring was very cold and stormy. During one of these bad storms forty-seven new settlers arrived. It was necessary to house them in the church for ten days while other shelters were being provided. Under the direction of the bishop and Relief Society, with the help of neighbors and friends, they enjoyed cooked meals. KNIGHT SUGAR FACTORY, RAYMOND, CANADA Building completed in 1903, and sugar was manufactured that same year SETTLING RAYMOND, ALBERTA, CANADA 527 THE RAYMOND RELIEF SOCIETY was organized in the lean-to in the back of this building, the home of Emma }. Bevan, February 1902. THE ward was organized on October 10, 1901, with Jesse W. Knight as bishop, and Joseph Bevan and Ephraim Hicks as counselors. Brother McCarthy notified the Bishop of this appointment while he and Mrs. Knight were "riding the range" on the "K-2" ranch, where they were then living. They moved to Raymond and built a home where young couples were married and many royal guests entertained, among them being President Joseph F. Smith and wife, President Francis M. Lyman, Dr. George H. Brimhall, L. H. Hol-brook, and their wives, some of the apostles and their wives, and other Church and government officials, as well as dear friends and associates. The first couple married by Bishop Knight was Katie Pitt and William Jensen of Salt Lake City. They were at the dedication of the townsite. All of the auxiliary organizations were fortunate in having efficient officers from the beginning. The Relief Society commenced its work early in 1902 under the direction of its president Emma J. Bevan, at whose home it was organized. With Counselors Mary J. Selman and Annie Gibbs, with teachers and members, this thrifty organization did a wonderful work, throughout the years it carried on the traditions of charity, love, and preparedness for which it was organized. The Relief Society erected a granary on its own city lot, which was filled with wheat. Later it owned a quarter section of land on which wheat was raised for the benefit of the Society. HOME OF JESSE WILLIAM KNIGHT First bishop of Raymond The year 1903 marked the completion of the sugar factory, the major activity in all that section of the country at that time. Words fail to express what a Herculean task it was to build and operate a sugar factory in so short a time. The land which was covered with tall grass and "a million mosquitoes to every blade" had to be prepared to raise beets for the factory. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 Men and boys who were not building were ploughing and cultivating the land. Warren Depew, a veteran plowman, reports that 3,000 acres were ready on scheduled time. It took the combined efforts of men. Women, and children, augmented by Indians, Chinese, and itinerant laborers to plant, thin, top, and harvest the beets, as well as 150 to 300 men to build and operate the factory. This enterprise was fortunate in the intelligent personnel of the men who supervised the work. Foremost among them was Ephraim P. Ellison, a man of acute understanding and executive ability-. His posterity-are still builders in the Alberta country. Brother J. William Evans, who remained loyal to Raymond to the end. Was the first supervisor of the beet fields and later held important positions in the factory. Along with all the work the women had to do, it fell to their lot to foster the social functions, as related before. The very first Christmas party was given in the meeting house. Sister Elizabeth King, who is still stake president of YW'MIA, and Sister Lamb decorated the building and the tree, and the appropriate program and dance of that date set a pace worthy to be followed. The pioneers who still remain are unanimous in the opinion expressed by Dr. George H. Brimhall, whose sons and daughters were among the first settlers, that: God from on high lights up the way For man to go that's best, He pro\ides the opportunity, But man must do the rest. FIRST WARD MEETING HOUSE AND TAYLOR STAKE HOUSE, 1941 Stay as Sweet as You Are Ada B. Monson JIMMY was leading the way to the far side of the big waiting room. You shouldn't have come, Mother,? he said. ?Train stations are tough assignments for mothers these days." Mrs. Leeder started to speak. Jimmy interrupted, "Don't say it, Mother, I will?"the tougher the job, the harder you tackle." They both laughed and sat down on a long bench. Jimmy put. His suitcase between them on the seat. They both rested their arms on it and Jimmy put his hand over his mother's. "Seriously, Mother, Fm very grateful for all the sweet philosophy you've dished up for me. I'm gonna need it, but sure." Mrs. Leeder tried to smile, but her chin went wobbly. Then to herself?I musn't cry, I musn't cry. I must talk, that's it, I must talk every minute to keep from crying. Boys in khaki and blue were dashing hatless and coatless in and out of the station between trains. "They keep that girl at the newsstand really busy, and look, Jimmy, there are Fred and his mother coming in now, see, at the middle door?" Mrs. Leeder stood up to wave at them. Jimmy put out a restraining hand. "Let's stay here. Mother," he said. Mrs. Leeder sat down, "Why sure?all right," she said. "You'll get to see them out at the train," Jimmy said. He's afraid I'll break down in front of them all, she thought, but she said, "I hope you two boys can stick together through this like you did through growing up." "Can't though. Fred'll go in the air corps," Jimmy said. "Oh, I didn't know. Poor Ruth. She won't have anyone at home, now." "You be sure and call her up, sometimes." "Oh, I will. Son?every day," Mrs. Leeder said. Jimmy smiled. "She'll be calling you up, too." Mrs. Leeder smiled back and a lump came in her throat again. Talk fast, talk fast. "Fred's mother is a beautiful woman, isn't she?" "Yeah," Jimmy said, "clothes do an awful lot." Mrs. Leeder put her feet further under the seat and straightened up a bit. "I guess I could have worn my hat," she said, smoothing her hair with a workworn hand. "I've got those gloves you gave me for Christmas, too." Never before had she been so aware of her shabbiness, her lack of style. "You sure you don't want to see Ruth, Son?" she asked. Jimmy shook his head. "We said goodbye last night." He changed the subject quickly. "Wonder how I'll look in G. I. Cloth?" Page 529 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 "You'll look beautiful. Just beautiful? Mrs. Leeder said. They both laughed a little. Then, noticing the sudden activity, they both glanced at the clock. ?It's time, Mother," he said. She put out a hand, then quickly drew it back. Already he was standing, his suitcase in his hand. "No, Mother?don't get up?and don't come out to the train. I'd like it best this way." With one fleeting look at her he dashed through the door that led to the trains. Mrs. Leeder's glance followed him until he was lost in the crowd. She sat still on the long bench. It was funny how all alone she felt with so many people around her. At the other end of the room she could see Mrs. Chambers sobbing in Fred's arms. Fred was using his handkerchief on his own eyes, then they went out to the train. After a while, Mrs. Leeder stood up and went out the entrance toward home. Well, anyway, she hadn't cried. She had promised herself she wouldn't cry. But now she could let down if she wanted to. Funny she didn't, seem to be able to shed tears. It had all turned out so differently from the way she had expected. She was sure Jimmy had acted unnatural. He had kept that old suitcase between them so she couldn't take his hand or get close to him. And he didn't kiss her goodbye, or even take her in his arms. A December snow was falling. She buttoned her coat more closely around her. A plate-glass door panel caught her reflection. She paused, then started on?came back and stood still, shoving her hands deep into her coat pockets and straightening her shoulders. Then, after a minute, she hurried on. The picture she had seen wasn't exactly pleasing. Certainly not anything like Mrs. Chambers. Jimmy had said, "Clothes can do an awful lot." Jimmy hadn't wanted to join his friends. Could it be that he was? she wouldn't say it. Jimmy wasn't like that. And yet?something had been wrong. Suddenly she felt hollow inside, an emptiness which she couldn't shake off. That was it? of course it was. She had been so busy making a living for the two of them and getting Jimmy through school for the last five years she just hadn't taken time out to keep herself up. She hadn't been in a beauty shop for?well she couldn't remember. Oh dear! She had let Jimmy down, not purposely, but down, just the same. The wind blew little wisps of hair around her face, and suddenly it seemed colder. She buried her chin and nose down beneath her storm collar and hurried homeward. That's what she needed?home-home and a good cry.  IT was October and Mrs. Leeder entered the depot and walked over to the train schedule. Number Twenty-Six was due at nine o'clock. It was eight now. She stopped a redcap. "Can you tell me when Number Twenty-Six comes in from San Francisco?" she asked. "Nine o'clock, Mam," he said. She thanked him and walked to the far end of the waiting room. She placed one foot slightly back of the other one and sat down gracefully. Martin leaned back, she thought, always keep the back perfectly straight, shoulders relaxed. One of the beauty lessons had said, "Always choose chairs with a firm seat, or the knees might collide with the chin." Well, this seat was firm enough, and it was on this same seat that a mother had said goodbye to her son last December. And now, after almost a year, she was here to meet him, with one hour to wait.
Yes, she had been the mother, but a very different one. That mother wore a coat that slapped her legs too far below the knees; had straight hair pinned in a tight knot at the back of her neck, and broken nails; she had also had the analgesic not to wear a hat or gloves.
She recalled words from lesson twenty-seven: "Street clothes should be chosen with utmost care. Suits are best, and careful attention must be paid to accessories."
A little smile played about her lips as she slowly and nonchalantly tugged at the glove on her left hand. She removed only one. She wanted to admire again her long lacquered nails. Leisurely she worked the fingers back into the soft kid. Underneath her tailored suit her heart was racing. She glanced at the clock. Forty-five more minutes to wait for Jimmy. Would he like her? He'd be surprised, she knew. Maybe he wouldn't know her with her? He'd be surprised, she knew. hat with bright feathers right smack on the top. She was all of an inch taller in these new shoes, too.
Pretty minutes to go!
She just couldn't sit there that long, she'd have to move about. The place hadn't changed much in a year?the same clanging of trains and the same calling of trains, except that now the voice came from a loudspeaker overhead. Everywhere, boys in khaki and blue rushed in to buy magazines, candy, and postcards, then dashed out to get on their trains.
Mrs. Leeder found herself moving with them out to the platform. Soon a long train slowed to a stop. She noticed a neatly dressed woman in a fur coat and red-feathered hat glancing anxiously up and down; white dozens of men in uniform spilled out of the cars. A smooth-faced sailor with a cane and a slight limp detached himself from the crowd and hurried toward the woman. "Mother!" he exclaimed, "I hardly knew you." He clasped her in his arms.
"Boy?your coat. Mother, can you still afford mink with a war going on?" He laughed and patted her arm. "But I love you anyway. Mother. Gosh, is this black hair a wig, or does it wash out? I liked your hair with gray in it. But of course you are glamorous." He squeezed her again and guided her laughingly through the crowd. Mrs. Leeder watched them disappear.
Finally she came to the end of the platform and automatically turned and started walking back. She thought she knew what the boy had meant when he had referred to his mother's mink coat. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 He had tried to laugh it off but he hadn't liked her hair, either. It was awfully black for such a wrinkled face. Mrs. Leeder guessed the boys liked to find things the same when they came back from the war. And now she was glad she hadn't rearranged the furniture or moved the rose garden. And jolly well glad she was that she didn't have a new fur coat to plague her. Yes, she felt cozy in the thought that Jim would find everything about the same. The same? She ran her gloved hand up the back of her neck. Those loose locks on an up-sweep were so annoying! Up-sweep! And her hat was a monstrosity, so her boss had said. But then, men didn't know anything about women's hats. But it was more than that. Her nails were so long she'd given up playing the piano months ago. Mrs. Leeders' heart did a drop act. She ran inside and looked at the clock. Eighteen minutes to go. Like one pursued, she ran to the ladies' lounge. Behind a screen she found a dressing table and a chair. Frantically she tore off her hat,"" pulled out combs from her hair. A big black face appeared around the screen. "Ah's Mandy," it said. "You all seemed in such a powah-ful hurry. Cain I do somp'in foah you all?" Mrs. Leeder's heart came back into place for the first time in minutes. "Oh, Mandy," she exclaimed, "Never again will I doubt that prayers are answered. If you can lengthen this skirt two inches in ten minutes, you can name your price. Just baste it in, of course." Mrs. Leeder was already slipping it off. "Ah'11 be right back, quick as scat," Mandy said, and left with the skirt over her arm. Mrs. Leeder studied herself for a second in the mirror. She hurriedly wiped off the heavy print of lipstick, leaving just enough, then turned her attention to her hair. She ran her comb through it several times, until it fell glistening to her shoulders. Then deftly she pushed the soft waves loosely around her face and wound the length into a low bob on her neck. Then, with a nail file she set to work on her nails. Surely, swiftly, in no time at all, she had filed away the sharp claws, rounding the ends and smoothing them off. "Heah's you' skirt. Ma'am, and right on de dot a ten minutes," Mandy said, holding the skirt toward her. "Oh, thanks. Thanks, Mandy," Mrs. Leeder said, "help me pull it on, will you? It can't go on over my head, or my hair will be mussed. There. I'll fasten it. Run, see the time, please," slipping her a quarter. Mrs. Leeder finished dressing and hurried out to the platform, and stood among others who were waiting. From far away came the long, lonesome whistle of Number Twenty-Six. Everyone suddenly stood at attention, looking down the long track to where it curved out of sight. Mrs. Leeder thought, it won't be long now. Her stomach did a flip-flop. Again the whistle gave vent to two longs, one short, and a long, and soon the train came in, its engine puffing and panting. Mrs. Leeder's feet seemed glued to the platform. How could anyone see all the cars at once? She decided to stand in one place, near the main entrance. Then, if she didn't see Jimmy, he would see her after the crowd had thinned out.
But after a little while when the crowd had thinned out, and still no Jimmy, Mrs. Leeder grew anxious. Could it be that Jimmy had missed his train? There was another one due from the Coast in about nine minutes. But the telegram had said he would be on Number Twenty-Six.
There were two soldiers standing a little way down the platform. Maybe they could tell her something, she thought, as she started over to where they stood. One was bareheaded, and wearing dark glasses.
They were looking at her now and walking toward her.
"Why?that boy's hair is like Jimmy's!" she thought, but he didn't look like?yes, he did. It was the dark glasses that had puzzled her. It was funny!?Oh, Jimmy?Jimmy couldn't see. Her fast strides broke into a run, and then her arms were about him, holding him tight, tight.
She wanted to say so many things. She wanted to tell him it didn't matter. But not a sound would come for years. She just could only press them tight together and pray for it it had been important that she keep from crying when he went away, it was doubly so now.
She felt his fingers exploring her face, then her hair, and the loose softness must have confused him?then crinkly the eager fingers sought and found the low bob at the back of her neck. A smile relieved the sternness of his mouth. "It's all right, Lieutenant," he said, turning to the soldier. "This is my mother. Thanks for standing by me." He held out his hand and the Lieutenant shook it warmly, lifted his cap to Mrs. Leeder, then hastily left them.
Guiding Jimmy carefully through the station, she called a cab and they got in.
"That was Lieutenant Conrey. He's swell. On the train I told him about you. I said, 'You'll know my mother. She maybe won't be wearing a hat or gloves, and she combs her hair awful plain and wears it in a little knot on the back of her head.' Gosh, Mother, he knew you right off?"
Mrs. Leeder leaned over and laid her cheek against his.
"Oh, Jimmy," she said. DESERT BORN Beatrice Knowlton Ekman Above a dark fir wood in Oregon, A yellow-lantern moon is hanging low; The deep, still waters to the ocean run, Their waters dimpling in the silver glow. To one remembering moon-drenched desert range, This forest land is beautiful.... But strange. Sixt Years J4go Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women OF All Nations" Home: It has been very wisely remarked that in order to fully appreciate the blessings and comforts of life, it is necessary for a person to be described of them for a time. Who can so much appreciate the cheerful home fireside, the association with parents and friends, as those who have been separated from them for a season, and called to face the hard, cruel world alone, away from the kind, cheerful faces and helping hands of the loved ones? Home is the haven of rest to which we flee when the day's work is done What is so cheerful a sight as to see fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters surrounding the bright and cheerful hearth, each happy in the other's love, and all contented with their lot.... Where there is disorder and confusion the spirit of God cannot abide.... It is said, and reason and reflection corroborate the statement, that "order is heaven's first law." So also should it be the first law of the home. Note: With a tender remembrance of that magnificent woman Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colorado Springs, we record her demise.... Mrs. Jackson wrote over the signature of H. H. And is widely known as a journalist of rare merit. Her last book is entitled "Ramona" and has been spoken of by critics and reviewers as the best novel by an American woman,... During her two visits in this city we had many interesting conversations, and she expressed herself always as intensely interested in all religions, especially anything new or original and when it most concerned women. Excerpts from a letter written from Almo, Cassia County, Idaho, by Hannah T. King: I have a few words to say about this remote region.... First, it is a wild but beautiful country, the atmosphere seems the very breath of heaven; so clear, pure, cool and invigorating, even in these dog days! The inhabitants are so widely separated, that nothing but love and joy are exhibited when they meet;... The spirit of the place breathes of peace and goodwill. Freedom and liberty reign supreme.... On Thursday I attended the first Relief Society held in this region.... There was a sweet, even childlike spirit in that first meeting! Each felt desirous to do her part, yet felt her inefficiency to carry out the desires of her heart; but everyone must have realized the Spirit of God was in that meeting. Don't we look back, as we ascend, Over the journey clear to the end? Cannot we see, though our eyes are dim, All of the past unknown to them?, Cannot we feel we are drawing near Those who are gone to the higher sphere? Nearer the treasures we lost long ago? They are above, and not below. ?E. Stephens Music: There is great power in music! Among the fine arts this has the strongest effect upon human character.... Who has not had his heart melted into tenderness and the fountain of his tears broken up by some touching appeal of melody.... And at church, what will concentrate the minds of the audience on God more than a beautiful hymn or anthem? Page 534 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WAC Captain Elizabeth Hyde, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Gordon T. Hyde of Salt Lake City, is now attached to the staff of Mrs. Henry Arnold, executive for the dependents' affairs of the military personnel division. Captain Hyde flies with her chief to hospitals and camps, where, through contact with the soldiers, problems that face their families are brought to light, recorded and, later, taken care of. MRS. DESLA BENNION of Spokane, Washington, formerly Edna Hull of Salt Lake City, has been elected to membership on the city school board. A Spokane newspaper points out that she was sponsored by the women of the University, of the Rotary Club, and of the Parent-Teachers Association; that she is the mother of five children, granddaughter of a Mormon woman who pushed a handcart all the way across the plains, and wife of a former Latter-day Saint mission president. In her campaign speeches Mrs. Bennion used her experience in recreational and other Church activities as a talking point. FILIPINO women were the first orientals to win suffrage. Mrs. Pilar H. Lim, a former president of the Philippine Federation of Women's Clubs, was largely responsible for this and many other achievements, such as higher literacy, lower mortality rate, diet clinics and factory nurseries for working mothers. A FTER eighteen years' association with the Salt Lake Tribune as writer and supervisor of the library and information department, Mrs. Olive W. Burt has resigned to give her entire time to literary activities. She has written three 'Teter" stories which depict Utah industries-printing, silver mining, and sheep raising, and is now working on a story of Navajo Indian children. Her serial **And For Eternity" is currently appearing in The Relief Society Magazine. IN 1661 the first woman appeared on the English stage. NPHE Mohammedans who conquered Spain in the eighth century and ruled it for seven hundred years brought about many reforms, one of which was the education of women. MRS. KATHERINE KEMP THURSTON of Salt Lake City, formerly of St. George, Utah, has recently published, through the Caxton Printers of Caldwell, Idaho, a book of poems?O f Poetry and People? containing vivid descriptions of the scenery and the people of Southern Utah. Page 535 EDITORIAL VOL. 32 SEPTEMBER 1945 NO. 9 Regular Weekly Relief Society Meetings Begin for 1945-46 Season 
THE month of October marks the beginning of regular weekly Relief Society meetings for the 1945-46 season. Beginnings are always interesting. They represent a space or period of time at which action is taken in the fulfillment of dreams or in the realization of plans, many of which have been long in the making. Beginnings are accompanied by all sorts of reactions on the part of persons identified with them. Some approach them with enthusiasm, full of faith in that which has been initiated, and determined that the outcome will be successful and glorious. Others are skeptical, approaching them with doubt and criticism, seeing errors in judgment, weakness in plans, and insurmountable obstacles in the way of fulfillment. Still others are passive or indifferent toward beginnings, taking them much for granted and little concerned with their own responsibility toward that which has been started.
One cannot always judge the outcome of a beginning by its auspiciousness. Often beginnings which to all but a few seem of little import are proved by time to be of greatest moment, defining objectives, introducing activities, setting patterns that touch the lives of tens of thousands and that exert a profound influence in the forward march of society. Such was the case 103 years ago when eighteen Latter-day Saint women were organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith "under the Priesthood and after the pattern of the Priesthood" to "look to the wants of the poor, search after objects of charity, and administer to their wants, ... to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." These sisters were early taught the proper relationship to their husbands, and their position in the home was an integral part of gospel teachings.
Women, young and mature, were quickly drawn toward the new institution. Forty-four new members came into the Society at the second meeting. Something had been initiated that appealed to all.
Today, 102,000 women are awaiting the beginning of the regular weekly meetings for the 1945-46 season. The objective as set forth by the Prophet will be adhered to carefully, adapted to present-day conditions and in line with present-day Church procedures.
Welfare work will receive a great deal of our time, with full support being given to the Church Welfare Plan. Concern for neighbors will be emphasized. Page 536 EDITORIAL 537 WE must "cherish" one another, and graciously and willingly render service that will bring comfort and happiness into the lives of one another. Homemaking, too, will receive special emphasis during the coming season. It is the duty of Relief Society to train women to be skilled housekeepers and good homemakers. Attendance at Relief Society should give women an enlarged vision of the importance of maintaining their homes according to Latter-day Saint standards. Officers are urged to enlist young women as members of the Society, and to interpret and conduct the program so that it will attract them and meet their needs. The Latter-day Saint viewpoint and the spirit of the gospel should characterize all that is done in Relief Society, and the testimony of the truth of the restored gospel should be strengthened in every woman attending. Let us each resolve to be among those who approach the beginning of this season's work with enthusiasm, full of faith in that which has been initiated, and determined that the outcome of the year's work will be successful and glorious. -B. S. S. THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES "Other misfortunes may be borne, or their effects overcome. If disastrous wars should sweep our commerce from the ocean, another generation may renew it; if it exhaust our treasury, future industry may replenish it; if it desolate and lay waste our fields, still, under a new cultivation, they will grow green again, and ripen to future harvests. "It were but a trifle even if the walls of yonder Capitol were to crumble, if its lofty pillars should fall, and its gorgeous decorations be all covered by the dust of the valley. All these may be rebuilt. "But who shall reconstruct the fabric oi demolished government? "Who shall rear again the well-proportioned columns of constitutional liberty? "Who shall frame together the skillful architecture which unites national sovereignty with State rights, individual security, and public prosperity? "No, if these columns fall, they will be raised not again. Like the Coliseum and the Parthenon, they will be destined to a mournful and a melancholy immortality. Bitterer tears, however, will flow over them than were ever shed over the monuments of Roman or Grecian art; for they will be the monuments of a more glorious edifice than Greece or Rome ever saw, the edifice of constitutional American liberty." ?Daniel Webster, "Eulogy on General Washington," (1832). Notes TO THE FIELD Auxiliary Regional Meetings and Monthly Union Meetings Authorized COPIES of the following letter "Further Instructions Regarding Conventions and Union Meetings" over the signature of the First Presidency of the Church were mailed to Relief Society stake presidents. It is reprinted herewith for the information of Relief Society officers: July 16, 1945 To Church Officers, Dear Brethren and Sisters: Further Instructions Regarding Conventions and Union Meetings Because of limitations set on automotive travel, the General Church Authorities on January 17, 1942, speaking through the First Presidency, advised General Boards of Auxiliary Organizations to discontinue the holding of monthly Union meetings, Institutes, and Conventions. Later, the Government itself placed a limitation upon assemblies throughout the entire country. The suspension of Unions and Conventions, of course, made less effective direct contact of Stake Boards as such with wards and branch officers and teachers, but placed greater responsibility upon the ward and branch organizations. We commend the local officers and teachers upon their willingness, ability, and increased effort to guide and instruct the members of their respective organizations during this Page 538 critical war-time period. It is gratifying, indeed, to note how efficiently the quorums and auxiliary organizations have functioned notwithstanding the limitations and difficulties under which they have had to labor. Occasional visits by General Board members to wards, stakes and districts requesting special help have contributed to increased efficiency in class work and in general spiritual uplift. A recent ruling by the Office of Price Administration, increasing the amount of gasoline for "A" coupons seems to point to such a relaxation with regard to the use of gasoline as will permit additional travel. Accordingly, we now authorize the holding of monthly priesthood leadership meetings that may include quorum members who may be especially invited to attend these meetings, monthly priesthood meetings, auxiliary regional meetings, and monthly union meetings where any such meetings may be held without violating the restrictions regarding the use of gasoline and rubber, and where the holding of such meetings will not interfere with quarterly conferences or other regularly established meetings. However, we do not, by these amended instructions, intend to authorize nor to countenance the holding of any of these meetings under circumstances which involve the violation of governmental rules and regulations regarding travel either by automobile or otherwise. NOTES TO THE FIELD 539 In this connection, we point out that experiences during the exigencies of war indicate that the visits of stake board members to wards produce even better results than having local officers and teachers travel to a central place for a monthly union meeting. Youth Need Guidance And Supervision In moving thus early to lift the ban hitherto placed upon the holding of Conventions and Union meetings, we are obedient to the necessity for close cooperation and personal contact between general and stake officers, and the young people of the Church. Every means that will foster such association must be made available wherever and whenever possible. The proper guidance of our children and youth is one of our paramount responsibilities. We are looking to those who represent the General Authorities in Priesthood and in Auxiliary work to discharge this responsibility in sincerity and prayerful devotion. Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen. Sincerely your brethren, George Albert Smith J. Reuben Clark, Jr. David O. McKay The First Presidency Ward Relief Society Conferences, November 4, 1945 CONTINUING the plan first adopted in 1942 for auxiliaries to hold special meetings and annual conferences on Fast Sunday evenings, the Relief Society has again been assigned the evenings of Fast Day in November and March. Fast Day in November this year will occur November 4, and the General Board recommends that this evening be used for the annual ward Relief Society conference. Ward Relief Society presidents may therefore arrange with their respective bishops for holding meetings on the evening of Fast Day in November. This is a most favorable Sunday on which to hold the ward Relief Society conference, coming as it does only one month after the opening of the regular weekly meetings in October, thus affording opportunity for previewing the lessons and other work, near the beginning of the educational season. It is recommended: 1. That each ward conference be attended by a representative of the stake board who should be present at both the officers' meeting and the general session. 2. That each conference consist of  two meetings? a. An officers' meeting to be attended by the ward executive officers, special workers and class leaders, the ward bishop or his representative, and the visiting stake board member.
b. A general session for all Relief Society members and for the general membership of the ward.
The purposes of the officers' meeting are to discuss special problems confronting the ward Relief Society, and to provide opportunity for the stake board member to evaluate the condition of the ward Society and to advise, instruct, and stimulate the ward officers. In order to accomplish the purposes of the meeting, some stakes prepare a questionnaire or present and discuss data from the last annual report. At least one hour should be allowed for this meeting and, in some instances, a longer period may be required. The time for holding the officers' meeting is optional with wards, but should be at a time convenient for the visiting stake board member and bishop. For example, this meeting may be held immediately preceding the general session, as heretofore
suggested, the previous evening, or at some other time convenient for the bishop and visiting board member. This officers' meeting, held in connection with the ward conference, may constitute the monthly ward preparation meeting for the month in which the conference is held.
In order to insure a large attendance at the general session of the conference, it is recommended that advance announcement of the meeting be made in Relief Society and other ward gatherings. Relief Society members particularly should be urged to attend.
A suggestive program for use at ward conference will be sent to ward and stake presidents in bulletin form. Its use is optional and stakes and wards desiring to plan their own programs may do so. However, the General Board is very anxious that this meeting be used to acquaint ward members with the work of Relief Society and also with a view to enlisting the active participation of the women of the ward. TODAY Dorothy Mae Halls This moment was created for happiness. And now is the time to feel gay. If happiness be postponed till tomorrow. What shall I do with today? The breath of life must be breathed today, Or breathed it will never be; Tomorrow is always just out of my grasp, Today is confronting me. Beyond This Dorothy Clapp Rohinson THE car was cruising effortlessly. It was a rare morning and a rare scene. Peaks of mountains and barbs of lava etched jagged holes through a downy quilt of shifting rain clouds. The scent of wet earth and green sage crept through the open window. In the back seat Mary Evans quivered with nostalgia. "It's camouflage,? she whispered to herself. "Cruel, selfish camouflage." The desert stretched before them with blue mountains for a backdrop. The soft rain came, then passed and came again. Quiescent, the mood of the travelers softened. Only Mary stiffened. '*We should be home by five o'clock." Home. These carefree people, Mr. McCollum, his wife and daughter, Patricia, would be home. Mary no longer had a home. Home meant a family and love and dreams. It meant building for the future. Her future lay behind. A roaring filled the sky. Between cloud puffs three bombers appeared flying in formation. The car stopped while the driver watched. "That's the life," he sighed. "Those kids are lucky." "Lucky." Mary spat the word. The girl beside her laid a hand gently on her knee but Mary moved. The hand was withdrawn. To these people war meant honor and glory. It even made them kind to their seamstress. They had brought her on this trip thinking it would make her forget. As if there were such a thing as forgetting. A quick smothered sob made her turn quickly, but Patricia's face was turned away. Gene had been the son every mother thinks she has. Strong, rugged, yet as full of dreams as a girl. "Don't you worry. Mom," he had said so many times. "Some day people are going to point to you and say, 'Know what? That's Gene Evan's mother. And you will swell with pride and I will tell the whole world the kind of mother you have been. And I'll pay the mortgage and buy new furniture. How's that?" "Perfect." Mary never doubted he would do just that. Gene had what it took to make dreams come true. The bombers passed and the car started again. Mary stared unseeing at the rocks and brush. It was such a little way back to his boyhood. "Know what?" he had asked once in a burst of confidence. He had finished mowing McCollum's lawn and they were sitting on their own back steps. The softness of a spring evening filled the dusk about them. "No. What?" "Some day after I go away and make my fortune, I'll come winging back out of the clouds in a big shining ship. I'll set her down over there on that vacant lot and everybody will come running to see. Page 541 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 Pat will be there, too. I'll be big then and strong, and I will pick her up in my arms and while everybody is watching we will fly away into the? into the land of Shining Mountains. DREAMS. Sweet dreams of youth. Their ending was of the essence of their birth. He had gone winging into the Shining Mountains, but Patricia was here and all the dreams had been for nothing. Mary had tried desperately to make the years less hard. Her efforts had been but fumbling beside the directness of his purpose. He had grown tall, hard of muscle and keen of eye. Handsome fellow, people said, and drew their daughters away. He would be like his dad. Mary knew better. From first grade on he'd had eyes for one girl only, Patricia McCollum, the untouchable. But his pride was as fierce as his strength. Mary glanced briefly at the girl, then looked again. She was staring ahead, her face a study in alabaster, hands motionless in her lap. Compelled by Mary's gaze she turned. Her mind came back slowly from long distances. There was something baffling in her eyes. Was it pity. Mary would have no pity. For herself or Gene. Oh, especially not for Gene. How he had managed flying lessons she never knew. It seemed impossible to add one more hour to his day. But he had. Then those flying lessons had suddenly become the important thing in his life?in all life. At twenty-one he had put aside the dreams of youth for the grim business of war. Mary tried to shut her mind to that first parting. He had stood on the back porch a long time staring in the direction of the imposing McCollum home, but he left without going over. Patricia had come the next day and if her eyes were bleak with sympathy, well, Mary's were bleak, too. She was left with only memories. The car picked up speed. The landscape became wilder, more stark. Was it like this in Greenland, she wondered? He'd been there the last year. He had written so few details. Don't worry, Mom. Our huts are warm, and we can take it. I am getting a leave the next time we hit the mainland. I hope it will be soon. There is nothing in all the world like the feel of good old U. S. Soil under a punk's feet. Nothing unless it is the sight of his Mom or his best girl. I'll come winging out of the clouds as I promised. And I am getting Pat this trip. Do you think she will spare me a week? I have learned basic values up here, and I am going to tell her what I should have told her long ago. But he hadn't asked Patricia to spare a week from her busy comfortable life. He had never whispered the wild sweet love that had been his secret dream through the years. In quick thought Mary turned, and wondered at the nakedness of the girl's face. Why?why it hadn't been pity. Patricia had been in love with him. She would have gone winging with him into the unknown. That explained so many little things. Mary sickened a little. The knowledge would have meant so much to Gene. It would have meant fulfilment to him. Now he would never know?or had he known? Of course. That. Explained what he had said about basic values. Her lips set stubbornly. Patricia had never known want or an unfulfilled desire. Let her suffer as Gene had suffered. In all her life Mary had had just her son. She was not sharing him now.
She had worked night and day to prepare for his coming. Her few carefully hoarded dollars had gone for paint and wallpaper. The money he sent home she was saving for him. She had changed her bed to his room. Maybe he would not recognize it under its coat of paint. She wanted him to have the best of everything.
And then?and then the very day he was to have arrived there came a cablegram instead. "Lost in performance of duty." A month?a long, long month?during which Patricia had stood by, white-faced, tight-lipped. How blinded Mary had been by her own suffering. A moment ended by a letter. His plane had been found. He and all his crew had been buried at an advance base, whatever that meant.
Yes, after all Mary did know what it meant. It meant empty, desolate years. It meant the end of the world. It meant the end of planning?and that Patricia would never know.
The rain clouds lifted and the rocks grew hot. They stopped at the Craters of the Moon. It had been very kind of the McCollums to bring her on this trip but she wished they would not stop so often. She watched impatiently while the driver paid an entrance fee and received instructions. More impatiently she saw him turn the car onto a road where no road should ever be. It lead into lava flows once spewed white-hot from a dragon's
mouth. Immediately her impatience vanished. For the first time in months she was interested. The bleakness and blackness found echo in her heart.
Weird, uncanny formations, terrifying in their stark nakedness, were sharply etched, as yet untouched by the raging power of time and the elements. Rising from the confusion, were several sharply sloping cones of coal-black pulverized cinders.
Something was rising unbidden in Mary. Something akin to justification. How like LIFE this barren waste was, bleak, impotent and utterly without form or purpose. Of no earthly use to God or man.
They rounded a quick turn and stopped abruptly. Leaving the car they stood at the edge of the road gazing in awe and bewilderment.
HEAVEN had laid a fleece of beauty over stark sterility. Every slope of every black hill was covered with a carpet of flowers. Wild snowballs, Gene had called them. From between two slender silver leaves a stem rose, topped by a snowball the size of a large marble. The balls graduated in color from pale canary through orange, to crimson.
Unbelievably, there was a tiny orchard of these among them. A Heaven by Gardener not only had planted, but had spaced them. Looking from any direction there were perfect rows with plants four inches apart. Silver, yellow, orchid, crimson, and, underneath, the rimming black lace of cinders. It was a miracle. The ash of black despair had given birth to HOPE, beautiful beyond compare.
At Patricia's gasp, Mary turned to face her. Tears were streaming unheeded down the girl's cheeks. This was the girl Gene had loved, who loved him; and there must be no despair. Patricia's must not be denied her. Mary took the girl's hand. "He meant to tell you," she whispered. "That is why he was coming home."
THE LANE Daphne Jemmett In Idaho there is a lane That wanders on at will. Until it takes you to a house With flowers on the sill; And over it a willow tree Whose weeping branches fall. Close to the flowers on the sill. The roses on the wall. Now, often, when I hear men speak Of places they hold dear. In various portions of the earth, Both very far, and near. In memory my thoughts return And I can plainly see That wandering lane in Idaho, The little house and tree. Nellie O. Parker Former Member Relief Society General Board The little house and tree. Planning For Safety THE great number of accidents occurring in the homes of America has intensified research into their causes. It has been found that many accidents are due to faulty home design, unsafe equipment, and careless actions. If the greatest degree of safety is to be obtained, careful consideration must be given to the elimination of hazards which are known to produce accidents. This may require changes in the house plan, rearrangement of the. Furniture, provision of places for putting things away, or the addition of more light to entrances, passages, and stairways. The National Safety Council tells us that falls cause about two-thirds of all home tragedies. All stairs should have an easy ascent with equal step heights or rises and treads of equal width. Sturdy hand rails should be provided. Good lighting is essential and may be secured by placing a switch at both the top and the bottom of the stairs. There should be non-slip floor surfaces and well-secured carpeting. Loose metal step guards or small throw rugs are malicious hazards. Rooms with floor levels of varying heights?a step up to the dining room or one down to the living room?are a constant danger. Any door opening into a hall should swing roomward and should not open directly on a down stairway. If this arrangement cannot be avoided, a safety lock should be placed on the door to give time for realization of a potential fall. Overhead obstructions should be removed or painted white, especially in the basement and attic stairways. Top and bottom steps, when painted white, will indicate when the end is reached. A gate to bar the stairs is essential if there are toddlers around. The bathroom is often the scene of falls, scalds, and burns if the equipment is not arranged to prevent them. The tub should have a flat bottom with at least one strong, solid grip on the wall to hold on to when getting in and out of the tub or shower. There should be a non-slip mat on the floor and a good container should be provided to keep soap out of the way. The water should be kept below scalding, about 125? Fahrenheit. Records tell of fatal results to children from too hot water being turned on them. Electric switches should be placed outside the bathroom or beyond reach of the tub or shower. Never touch an electrical appliance with wet hands. Many older people, as well as children, die from falls and burns in bedrooms. There should be light fixtures at both doors and bedsides. See that there is a straight path from the bed to the door to avoid bumping or falling over furniture. Children should be provided with safe cribs having the slats close enough to prevent the baby's head Page 545 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 being caught between them. Be sure that children's furniture and toys are painted with non-poisonous compounds. Reliable dealers should know the ingredients of their paints. Radiant heaters should be placed away from materials that could be ignited, and heating pads should be placed away from materials that could be ignited, and heating pads should be kept in good repair to prevent burns.
Windows need careful consideration. If they can be arranged to swing or turn in for cleaning, a very definite falling hazard will be eliminated, as sitting or leaning out of windows to wash them is dangerous. Screens and storm windows should be adjusted from the inside and the catches on all screens should be strong and secure.
The roof design of a home should be kept simple and the attic well insulated to eliminate the necessity of removing snow and ice from the eaves and gutters in heavy winter weather.
Make the living room livable by grouping the furniture where it will be most used, leaving clear paths for family traffic. Provide enough electric plug-ins to eliminate the necessity for long cords which may be tripped over or broken. Sew weights or rubber fruit rings on the under side of rugs to keep them flat and secure them from slipping or tripping. Use non-skid wax on the floors.
The kitchen is the most dangerous room in the house. Children should be kept out while cooking or canning is going on. All equipment should be kept in good repair. Shelves should be placed within reach, or where this cannot be done, a sturdy stepladder with wide treads or "step stool" should be used. Stoves with an open flame should not be closer than twelve to eighteen inches from a window. Curtains should be securely fastened so they won't blow over the flame and ignite. All floors, walls, and chimneys should be properly insulated from heating stoves. Matches and all sharp instruments should be put away from little fingers.
More than half of the home accidents happen outside the home. Provide adequate light for porch steps and walks. If paths cannot be cleaned from snow and ice, they should be sprinkled with salt or ashes. Clean rain gutters will form fewer icicles. Clothes lines should be arranged higher than the head or placed out of the line of traffic.
Take advantage of foresight and planning to prevent home tragedies. Good housekeeping is safe housekeeping.Therefore,... See that you are merciful unto your brethren; deal justly, judge righteously, and do good continually; and if ye do all these things then shall ye receive your reward; yea, ye shall have mercy restored unto you again; ye shall have a righteous judgment restored unto you again; and ye shall have good rewarded unto you again. For that which ye do send out shall return unto you again, and be restored (Alma 41:14-15). His First Teacher Mildred Y. Hunt ONE of the ever-increasing wonders of my world is the capacity of the child mind for receiving impressions. In his quest for learning he is inexhaustible. In the beginning, his questions were very simple and the main problem was framing replies in language that he could understand. Day by day his interest has widened and with it my responsibility, for I must weave the type of fabric which I desire to be the basis of his future education. This is a part of motherhood in which I have always believed, but not until my own child reached this stage did its possibilities rise before me in such limitless proportions. The impressions made now, upon virgin soil, will take root and live to shape the conduct of his entire life. That which concerns me most at this stage is the foundation of religion. I feel certain that the responsibility for this belongs essentially to me, rather than to those who teach him outside of home. Their contribution will help, but mine is the task of building the main structure. Sunday School and Primary lessons will be more beneficial if he has a background of religious knowledge. It is well that repetition does not bore him, for each retelling strengthens his knowledge and widens his understanding. The characters of the Bible are real and interesting. He never tires of hearing about Jesus and all the incidents and happenings that bring out the beauty and purity of his life. Joseph Smith, too, lives for him in all his nobility. Adam, Enoch, and Noah, the stories of Joseph and the enslavement of the children of Israel, and their delivery by Moses are as interesting to him as any characters of fiction. This is the wonderful thing about teaching him, for once the child's interest is gained the teacher's work is easy and pleasurable. Our Church leaders have stressed the importance of early training for children. According to President Grant: The Lord has said that it is our duty to teach our children in their youth. Children are not born with a knowledge of the gospel. Each one must learn and study and gain that knowledge for himself. Brigham Young was very explicit in his direction to mothers: Let mothers commence to teach their children while in their laps; there do you teach them to love the Lord and keep his commandments.... If you, mothers, will live your religion, then in the love and fear of God teach your children constantly and thoroughly in the ways of life and salvation, training them up in the way they should go, and when they are old they will not depart from it. If we do not take the pains to train our children, to teach and " instruct them concerning these revealed truths, the condemnation will be upon us as parents. Page 547 The value of family prayers in training children for religious and spiritual lives cannot be over estimated. Sincerity and humility on the part of the parents seeking the spirit of the Lord in the home is one of the first profound impressions to be made on young minds.
It is easy to let less important tasks crowd out these essential activities. One of the most potent weapons of the adversary is procrastination. Our lives today move at a rapid tempo, but it is more important than ever that we remain calm, and hold fast to the enduring and everlasting principles of the salvation of souls.
for us but also for our children. Not one of the tasks constantly tugging at us is important enough to justify neglect of the great trust which is ours in the training of these little ones.
And so, of the two precious years that remain before I give him over to others to teach, there is no time to waste. In studying for the information which I must have in order to meet this goal, I, too, shall be immeasurably benefited. We shall share a rich and happy experience together which we shall be better able to give to others. MATES Edward R. Tuttle The fabric of their love was never one Of fragile texture, made with silken twine And weft of dreams that later might be done, Somehow, into a workable design; But, was the homespun of a pent-up street Where pain-worn dwellers scarcely knew the soil. Expectancy had seldom turned their feet From an accustomed rendezvous with toil. They had preferred to let a slower growth Mature the rugged fibers in their care, Until a loom of years could furnish both With proper raiment for enduring wear. The mute concessions of this man and wife Had given each the condiments of life. The Radiant Spirit A FANTASY Miranda Snow Walton IN the Beautiful Kingdom lay a broad, white roadway running like a pearled ribbon from the Mountain of the Great Throne to the Silver Sea. Many people, young and old, traveled along the Highway, for it was the Road of Life. This is a tale of two men who journeyed thereon.
Now, there was a legend in the Beautiful Kingdom that when a man had traversed the Highway's length, even unto the shores of the Silver Sea, the Radiant One would take him by the hand, and lead him into an enchanted land, where his eyes would behold things too beautiful for mortal men to look upon. None had ever returned to tell of its wonder, for the law was that a traveler walked that way but once.
It was springtime when Jan and Justin began their pilgrimage. All the earth was made fair and lovely by the silvery sunshine that fell from happy skies. Birds and flowers grew in rich abundance, and birds' celestial music filled the air like a blessed benediction.
Jan was in ecstasy. Nothing, he thought, could be as beautiful as this; no, not even the vision of the Radiant One.
Each day, each hour, brought new delight to his soul, and his feet tarried along the trail until Justin became impatient.
"Hurry," he would call to Jan,
"these are only flowers and trees and birds which we can see every day. Why linger among these common things? Let us not stop until we have reached the Silver Sea."
He would have hastened ahead, but he could not, for it had been decreed that they journey together. He complained bitterly when Jan delayed while they listened to the rustling of moonlit pines.
"Angel whispers, they are," he told Justin, but Justin could only hear the branches scraping one against the other, and he fretted to be on his way, until his heart became filled with worry and resentment.
Summer came, and passed; then autumn and the earth was more beautiful than it had been in the springtime. To Jan, each scarlet leaf became a miracle, each golden tree more exquisite than the last, and where green fields had lain in lazy loveliness, now abundant harvests gave the promise of royal riches to all men. But Justin's impatience waxed more strong.
"The nights are becoming chill," he complained, "it will soon be winter, and it is still a far journey to the Silver Sea."
"Yes, I know the nights are chill," said Jan, "but the stars hang low and close like diamonds upon earth's pure breast, and I would drink of this beauty while I can, for we will pass this way but once." So they tarried until the winter of life was upon them, and their footsteps faltered many times, for their bodies were tired from their long journeying. They knew now that they would soon reach the Silver Sea, and Justin inlaid his companion bitterly.
"See," he said, "you have wasted our strength and time along the way on transient trifles. Our eyes are dim with age. Tell me, how can we now see the Radiant One?"
And Jan replied, "I am glad for the experiences of the springtime, for summer's clouds and showers, for the recompense of the harvest. These things have given me power to understand the immenity of that which is to come."
Then the day came when they stepped beyond the sunset into the Silver Sea. With eager, expectant eyes they looked for the Radiant One, as the legend had told them.
Justin spoke first. "We are too late, or we have missed our way. This is only another sea, like the many we have passed, and I do not
I see a person standing in the sun."
But Jan did not hear, for his ears were filled with the chant of angel choirs, his eyes were filled with the beauty that was too great for mortal man to look upon. His soul stood singing, for it knew the ecstasy of immortality, the glory and the joy of heavenly things, the wonder of eternity.
The Radiant One took him by the hand.
"Only those who have known me as they journeyed along the way of life can see me here. I walk with all men, but there are those who will not see and some who will not hear. Blessed are you, Jan, for you have seen me in the sunrise, and in the sacred silence of a higher noon; have known me when I manifested myself in acts of kindness by fellow travelers. You have felt my presence when life storms of the obscured your vision. I bless you, Jan, with eternal joy. I am the one whose mission it is to give happiness to men. I am the Spirit of Appreciation."

THE SONG Helen Kimball Orgill Tears and broken blossoms Woven into song, Boon of love evolving From life's thorn and thong. And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER IV SYNOPSIS Delsa Marriott, jilted by Hugh Temple who is serving in Australia, begins to take an interest in the children of Jeff Holden, widower principal of the school where Delsa teaches. The townsfolk, who do not know of Hugh's change of heart, think that Delsa is interested in Jeff, and condemn her for her infidelity to Hugh. THE girls came noisily into the house, shaking their long curls, waving letters in their hands, hugging big knitting bags close to their hearts. Delsa greeted them gaily, with the special little comment that each one merited. These were her chums and playmates since babyhood, they were as familiar to her as if they had belonged to her own family. She knew of their absent sweethearts, their hopes, their dreams and longings. There's something very special about a small town?especially a small Utah town, Delsa thought, with everyone belonging to the same Church, knowing everyone else. It was just like one big family. They settled down to the business of the evening at last. The girls got out their sewing or knitting or crocheting and went to work. And as the others worked, one would read her letters, or bits of them?the bits she cared to share?each girl taking a turn. Delsa sat back in a corner working on the exquisite tablecloth she was crocheting, thinking, I can't read them Hugh's letter?not a word of it. I would break down and cry if I did. And I can't lie to them and say I haven't heard from Hugh, for his mother knows I have?and by this time, probably, every one of them knows it, too. What shall I say? Shall I say, "Well, girls, I am withdrawing from the War Widows! I no longer have a right to belong? I'm no longer engaged to Hugh Temple! Should I say that now and have it over with? Grace Metcalfe looked at Delsa's tablecloth and sniffed. "You'll never get that done, Delsa Marriott," she said, "if you don't hurry. I don't think it's grown a stitch since last meeting.*' Delsa made herself laugh. She was sure that Grace had heard that Hugh's mother was displeased at her going to Jeff Holden's every day. If nice little Millie Lewis had heard it, surely Grace, who missed nothing in the way of gossip, had heard, also. She was gently baiting Delsa, but Delsa was not going to be drawn into any discussion of her own affairs tonight. She made herself laugh brightly, and reply casually. Millie rushed to her rescue. "Delsa's got a surprise for you all tonight," she cried. "A big surprise!" Delsa looked up at her friend in astonishment. Millie had asked her to keep it a secret. Lina caught her breath sharply. She, too, had been made to promise secrecy. But Millie giggled, and would say no more. Page 551 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 She had succeeded in diverting their attention. They began to tease Millie and Delsa to tell them what she had planned, and Delsa was thankful for the minutes wasted in this nonsense, as they delayed the moment when the girls would ask, "And now, what did Hugh say in his last letter, Delsa?" But the demand came at last and Delsa, scarcely knowing what words she would say, looked at her friends and told them, quietly, "Hugh was lonely, girls. There isn't a word of his last letter that I can very well share with anyone. It was meant just for me?" The girls murmured, "Toor Hugh! Delsa, give us his last address and we'll all write to him! We'll cheer him up!" And Delsa heard Hugh's mother sniffle a little in the background, trying to let Delsa know that she felt sorry for her son, away off in Australia, loving, trusting the girl back home. Delsa glanced at the clock. "We'll have to have our refreshments now if we're going to be ready for the surprise," she said, and hurried out into the kitchen to prepare the cake and ice cream that was the standard party food. Her mother came to help her, but Hugh's mother moved on into the living room with the girls, tacitly taking her stand with them and Hugh and against Delsa. DELSA felt her lip curving in a bitter smile and shook her head angrily. Sour old maid, already! She thought, and you haven't even released Hugh yet. What will your lips look like ten years from now? They had scarcely finished the ice cream when they heard voices on the porch, and Jim Lewis burst into the room. "Surprise! Surprise!" giggled Millie, and Lina was in Jim's arms, radiant, "Oh, Jim, I could hardly bear it, waiting for you to come!" Now Delsa had no more fears for her own secret. Everyone was hugging Jim, pouring out eager questions, laughing. Relief was in their voices and their laughter?the same relief Delsa had felt when she had learned that Jim was home. Then she remembered Jim's buddy, and would have crowded past the little knot to make him welcome, but Jim saw her and went to her. "How's Delsa?" he asked, lifting her chin and kissing her lightly. "Oh, Jim!" she cried, and didn't mind the tears that blurred his familiar face. "Jim, it's so good to see you. You look so well!" "I brought my buddy along," Jim found the chance to say. "Back up, girls. I want you all to meet Alec Windsor. Alec, this is my sister's and Lina's crowd?shall I tell you their names now, or one by one, so you'll have half a chance to remember them?" Delsa's eyes went to the dark figure now beside Jim. He was like Hugh? that same eager, slanting-in-to-the-wind look about him; the same dark eyes and hair lifting from a tanned forehead. She held out her hand. "I'm Delsa Marriott," she said simply. "I'm glad you could come with Jim." Alec took her hand and looked down into her eyes. "Jim's told me about you?about AND FOR ETERNITY 553 all the girls here?I envied him. It was just as if he had a dozen or more sisters waiting here at home to make him happy. You look just as he said you would, Delsa." Jim, who had gone over to greet the two older women, now came and extricated Alec from the laughing girls, and took him across the room. Delsa, watching, could see how Hugh's mother stared at the boy's resemblance to her son; could see how she bent eagerly to welcome him; how she adopted Alec immediately. Her own mother said, '1 think there's a little ice cream left, if you boys would like a dish," and everyone roared with laughter. It was so like old times?like the high school days, when the same crowd of girls, calling themselves the Merry Old Maids, had met. When it was just about time for them to break up the party, all the boys their age?Hugh and Jim and Louis and the rest-would drop by to walk the girls home. And then Mrs. Marriott would say the same thing, "There's a little ice cream left," and would feed the whole crowd again. JIM and Alec loved the ice cream " and cake, and the two mothers beamed tenderly on them as they ate. Delsa thought, "I didn't realize how much, how dreadfully much, they miss the boys, too!" When they could eat no more, Jim looked longingly at the record player and said, ?I guess we couldn't have a dance or two, Delsa? I promise we'll not play favorites? but give you all a whirl, if you'll only let us. It's been so long since we had a real dance?" "Why, of course, Jim!" Delsa cried. "We'd love it! The old records need a little exercise?if they aren't dimmed with rust and dust from disuse." She selected one of the crowd's favorite discs and set it in place. The girls watched worshipfully as Jim put his arm about Lina and his cheek against her hair and started to dance. Alec went to Millie, and Delsa felt a strange ache in her heart as he began to circle the room with her chum. Delsa was changing the record when she felt Alec's tall form beside her. Her hands fumbled, and his firm brown fingers took the disc and placed it in position. He pressed the button and the record began to turn. "Our dance?" he said, and his arm went about her and she was dancing with him. Delsa's first thought was, it's heaven to be dancing again! Then she smiled to herself. She had danced many times since the boys left?danced with the men and the older school boys. But it wasn't the same. Alec had to bend his head to talk to her above the music, but he said, "Tm glad that I could come with Jim. I'm going to have a good time, I can see that plainly. And I hope you'll help." "Help?" Delsa asked, her straying thoughts not catching his meaning. "Yes!" he grinned down at her. "I'd like to," Delsa smiled, "but I doubt if I'll get a chance. You'll have more girls wanting to help you have a good time than you'll need!" "But have you ever noticed," he asked seriously, "that it isn't always the many that make the much?" She looked up at him, baffled, and he laughed down at her.
"I've found that one companion?the right one?can do more towards providing a good time than any number of miscellaneous folks," he explained.
They danced in silence for a moment, and then Alec asked "Do you have those here? But of course you do! Do you ride?"
When Delsa nodded he went on, "Well then, I appoint you chief guide and pointer-outer to show me the wonders of this valley. Jim will have no time, what with a wedding and a bride to look after, so I'll be left high and dry unless you take care of me."
Delsa smiled.
"Wait and see," she said.
Their dance over, Delsa sat beside Hugh's mother while the two boys danced with every girl in turn.
Delsa and her voice troubled, "Do you think he's like Hugh, Aunt Martha?"
"A little," Hugh's mother said judiciously, "only not nearly so good looking, of course, and not so tall. And his shoulders aren't broad like Hugh's?"
Suddenly Delsa felt the tension inside her dissolve and she smiled and gave Hugh's mother a quick, affectionate hug.
"That's just what I thought," she said.
Hugh's mother returned her friendliness. She patted Delsa's hand and said softly, "Poor boy! I feel so sorry for him?no mother, no family, no town full of friends waiting for him. I can't help thinking how it must be with Hugh?away off there in Australia. He's a stranger here, just like Alec is here, Delsa,
not knowing anyone. I hope somebody is trying to make him happy."
Bitterness twisted Delsa's lips again, and she turned her head so that Hugh's mother wouldn't see it, as she answered, "Someone is, Aunt Martha! Surely someone has taken Hugh under her wing!"
At last the evening was over and the crowd was leaving. Jim and Alec and the girls said their goodbyes and went laughing out into the clear, cool night?Jim with Lina, of course, and Alec Windsor walking with Millie.
DELSA stood in the open doorway, watching them go down the walk and turn into the road, going in different directions toward their homes. Then with a sigh she went back into the house and started picking up the things, straightening the rooms.
Hugh's mother said, "Don't do that tonight, Delsa. You're tired. Let's just leave everything, and I'll come over tomorrow morning and help your mother clear up."
Delsa was surprised at the gentleness in the woman's voice. After the disapproval of the early evening, this kindness seemed suddenly sweet and dear. Delsa smiled gratefully and said, "I hate to do that?leave my party things for you two to clean up!"
But her mother said, "You have to go to school tomorrow, Delsa, and we have the whole day to putter about in. Go on to bed."
"You'll maybe want to show that nice boy some of the sights around here," Hugh's mother suggested, insinuatingly, "the old mill up the canyon, or that abandoned mine, or the spot where the Indians held their powwows in pioneer days. So you go to bed now, it's late."
Delsa kissed the two women goodnight and went slowly upstairs. So that was it! They were holding out a very definite olive branch?she could take it and be in their good graces again, or she could ignore it and have that ugly bat of disapproval between them.
She smiled sadly, she understood them so well. Alec Windsor looked something like Hugh; he was a service man like Hugh; he was a stranger like Hugh?therefore, he was good and dear like Hugh. Also, and very important to them, he was betrothed to a WAC, a romantic figure beside whom Delsa, country school teacher, was colorless and ineffective.
So they would have her show Alec the sights, ride horseback with him, talk to him?even flirt with him if he wanted to do a little harmless flirting on his month's furlough. Then he would go away, and Hugh's Delsa would be safe and wholly Hugh's again. She would have shaken off her interest in Jeff Holden and Jeff's children.
Well, Delsa thought, as she lay staring out of the window, across the dark toward Hugh's old room, why not? She had no interest in Jeff, except to help him out because so desperately needed help. And she had no interest in Alec, either. But if they wanted her to take their medicine she would take it?and with a vengeance.
She sat up in bed with sudden resolution. Maybe they were, unwittingly, giving her the answer to her own secret problem! She could be nice to Alec at first, as if just to please them. Then she could let them think that she had fallen in love with him?the nebulous plan in her mind began to take shape?furtive and secret, but definite.
Maybe she could make Alec think she was in love with him?what if he did belong to another? Hadn't a stranger stolen Hugh from her? She could get even with them all this way?and what did it matter what her own feelings were?
With her plan slowly growing in her mind, Delsa lay back on her pillow and slept. (To be continued) TRIAL AND ERROR Eva Willes Wangsgaaid Though it is hard to step aside And let him take his turn, Some truths run deep and must be tried Before a child can learn. HOLLYHOCKS Delia Adams Leitnei Hollyhocks so prim and tall, All along my garden wall; Bright array of pink and white, Shades of red and yellow bright, Single, double, frilled and plain, Stately but without disdain; Such a regal air they bear. And their dignity they wear Kingly, but so graciously. They are the garden's royalty. PRESENCE Alice Money Bailey She is not gone. The rows of bottled fruit Arranged on cellar shelves still bear a mute But sharp reminder?berries, apples?keys To thrift. Her potted plants, her brooms, and these: The brightly colored rags she meant to braid. The handkerchiefs she ironed, her glasses laid With neat precision by her much-read book. No dim and fleeting wraith is hers. I look To see her laughter-crinkled face. I hear The briskness of her step, her accents clear. How can I feel the loss her absence gives. Or mourn for her whose vividness still lives? Page 556 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Blanche B. Stoddard, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. SPECIAL PROGRAMS Big Cottonwood Stake (Utah) ALTA J. VANCE, President of "Mt. Olympus Ward Relief Society, and recently appointed president of Big Cottonwood Stake, reports the following anniversary program: "The Mt. Olympus Ward Relief Society celebrated the 103d anniversary of the Relief Society on March 13, 1945. The morning was spent in regular work-day activities. Eighteen Singing Mothers, after taking part on the program in a neighboring ward, returned and joined in the luncheon and program which were enjoyed by more than sixty members. The birthday cake centered the table which was decorated with daffodils, blue candles, and miniature pioneer women. Early days and procedures of the Relief Society organization were brought to mind by the program which included dances of former days by sisters in costumes. Children, who were usually taken care of in a separate room, were invited to join in the fun." SINGING MOTHERS OF MT. OLYMPUS WARD, BIG COTTONWOOD STAKE, (UTAH) Page 557 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 MEMBERS OF MT. OLYMPUS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, BIG COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) In fashions of other days. The dresses are up to 100 years old. Left to right: Irene T. Erekson, Viola Thompson, Bronwin Wilson, Beth Wayman, Helen Rock, and Jessie Taylor. BIRTHDAY CAKE OF MOUNT OLYMPUS WARD, BIG COTTONWOOD STAKE, (UTAH) Commemorating the 103d anniversary of Relief Society. Alta J. Vance, president of Mt. Olympus Ward, is holding the cake. Alpine Stake (Utah) FERN A. WALKER President of the Alpine Stake Relief Society, and May W. Halliday, music director, submitted the following report: ?The Alpine Stake Relief Society held and anniversary program, March 13, 1945, in the Third Wward recreation hall. This was the first program given on a stake basis since the centennial program. ?Following is the program that was given: Opening Chorus: Stake Group of Sixty Singing Mothers "Relief Society Anniversary Song" "Work We're Called To Do" One-act Play "Why" American Fork Second Ward Chorus, "Cradle Song," Brahms Highland Ward Singing Mothers Reading Mary E. Abel Ladies' Trio "The Green Cathedral" by Hahn American Fork Fourth Ward Original Skit "Something Special" American Fork Third Ward Chorus "The Kerry Dance" by Molloy Alpine Ward Singing Mothers Ceremony Honoring Our Past and Present Stake and Ward Relief Society Presidents American Fork First Ward "This last number was very effective, and all living presidents, except two, were preset. As part of this ceremony, a gold crown was placed on each sister as a symbol of her accomplishments and loyalty to her Relief Society obligation. This was a fitting climax to our program and was very well done. Much consideration had been given to its preparation. ?After the program refreshments of ice cream and cake were served to 350 women.? NOTES FROM THE FIELD 559 PRESIDENCY AND MEMBERS OF THE MANTI CENTER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, SOUTH SANPETE STAKE, (UTAH) Who took part in the pageant "Relief Society, Keeper of the Golden Key," presented on March 13, 1945. Front row, left to right: Mary Carpenter, Second Counselor; Ethelind Carpenter, President; Elvira Mellor, recently released First Counselor. South Sanpete Stake (Utah) ELVIRA MELLOR, former first counselor, Manti Center Ward Relief Society, reports an anniversary program held Tuesday, March 13, 1945. The theme was "Relief Society, Keeper of the Golden Key." A character representing Emma Hale, the first to hold the Golden Key, gave a brief summary of events at the initial organization and led in singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." "Charity" was introduced who spoke of her part in Relief Society. Then "Music" told of the benefits she adds to the organization. A character depicting Emmeline B. Wells explained woman's educational privileges attained through Relief Society and told of the study courses instituted during her presidency. A stake board member then gave her interpretation of Relief Society's future frontiers. The majesty and power of Relief Society cannot be measured; no one but God alone can determine the treasured heights of love, the breadth of charity, or sound the depths of knowledge. The scope of our work, the possibilities of our development, are bounded only by woman's capacities and eventualities. The Relief Society is as broad as eternity, as far-reaching as love, and holds the Golden Key for richer blessings above. South Los Angeles Stake (Calif.) SISTER MAUDE McOMIE, second counselor in the South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports the following unusual program: "Commemorating the one-hundred and third birthday and anniversary on March 7th, the South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society arranged an unique affair. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 ?To put on a program in the stake house would not be unusual, and with the thought of our war mothers, their anguish of soul for their sons and husbands, we wanted to do something for them, to reach out a kindly hand and have them feel and realize our love for them. This could not be done individually, but collectively we could convey, in a measure, some gesture that would be fitting and appropriate to honor these women. With this in mind, we remembered the beautiful window The Last Supper' at Forest Lawn Memorial Park. What a beautiful setting it would make for a program! They could view the window, listen, and think of the sacrifice Christ made for them. In contemplating the greatness of this sacrifice they could derive comfort in knowing that he understood the suffering of their hearts. "Out of this grew the following program: Welcome Mrs. Blanche M. Johnson "The Holy City" by Stephen Adams Hyrum J. Christiansen, tenor Invocation Mr. W. W. LeCheminant "Meditation" from Thais by Jules Massenet Merwin Waite, violinist The Story of "The Last Supper" Window Mr. James Herron, narrator "In the Desert of Waiting" by Annie Fellows Johnson Mrs. Erma Peterite, dramatic reader "In the Garden" by C. Austin Miles Mr. Christiansen Tribute to War Mothers and Wives President Noble Waite Benediction Mrs. Lillian Collings Taps Mrs. Glenna Nelson "The setting alone was a glorious sight, and something that mere words cannot describe. "At the conclusion of the program each gold-star mother was presented with a corsage, a token of love from the stake board. Following this, the haunting beauty of taps echoed through the beautiful 'Court of Honor Building'." Mt. Graham Stake (Arizona) TRELLA ELLSWORTH, President of Layton Ward Relief Society, and Clare K. Claridge, Secretary of Mt. Graham Stake Relief Society, wrote in April of this year: "The Layton Ward Relief Society of the Mt. Graham Stake celebrated the March 17 anniversary with a banquet for the mothers and daughters of the ward. There were about 150 present and among them a family of four generations, Sister Ida Norton, her daughter. Belle Tal-ley, her daughter, Eula John, and her daughter, Loretta John. "All assembled in the chapel where beautiful music was played. When all had arrived they were ushered into the banquet hall. The tables were decorated with beautiful flowers of various colors. At the head table were seated the Relief Society presidency, with their daughters, and one of the stake board members. In the center of the table was a very lovely birthday cake made by one of the members of the Society. "After being seated, President Trella Ellsworth welcomed all and announced the program. 'America the Beautiful' was sung, led by Mildred Ellsworth, with Anna Bentley at the piano. Invocation by a mother, Verna Evans. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 561 LAYTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, MT. GRAHAM STAKE, (ARIZONA) MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS BANQUET President Ellsworth gave a short talk and her daughter, Mary Alice, responded. Other songs sung during the evening were 'Down by the Old Mill Stream,' ?When Irish Eyes Are Smilin,? "That Wonderful Mother of Mine' (the verse was sung by Mildred Ellsworth and the chorus of the first verse was sung by the daughters to the mothers, and the chorus of the second verse by the mothers to the daughters). A piano duet was given by a mother, Nora Clifford, and her daughter, Lenora Tate. Two mothers. Sisters Alice Welker and Rosa Welker, who have daughters in the service, were presented with corsages, after which all sang 'God Bless America.' A double duet was sung by two mothers, Jennie Brown, and her daughter Betty, and Sylvia Burrell and her daughter, Thressa Moody. Two little daughters, Joy Racy and Freddie Boggs, gave a tap dance accompanied on the piano by a mother, Vaun Raey. Sister Effie Richardson gave a toast representing the mothers, and her daughter. Carmen Richardson, gave a response representing the daughters. All sang 'Auld Lang Syne' and the benediction was given by a daughter. La von Evans. "The ward bishopric, assisted by about twelve young men, did an excellent job of serving this lovely banquet." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 LAYTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, MT. GRAHAM STAKE, (ARIZONA) Members of the bishopric and young men who served the lovely banquet for mothers and daughters of Layton Ward Relief Society. ANNUAL PICNIC OF THE LINCOLN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY', (TACOMA), SEATTLE STAKE, (WASHINGTON) Photograph submitted by Vilate C. Bottoms, secretary Work Meeting Plan now for Christmas AN APRON DAY FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS CHRISTMAS will be upon us before we know it! Conditions this year present a real opportunity for Relief Society to help its members make lovely gifts for Christmas out of materials they may have on hand. Let us plan the three remaining Relief Society work meetings before Christmas most carefully, so that they will be profitable for all who attend. In addition to necessary work-meeting activities, let us offer special projects designed to interest women who have not hitherto taken an active part in work meetings. There is a way to catch and hold the interest of every woman in the ward if the right way can be found. In order to find it, it is necessary to study carefully the needs of the particular group to which you wish to appeal and try out a number of activities that would seem to meet their special needs. If our program is organized to take care of all members who attend the meeting, we will be able to hold them and help them to solve many of their problems. The women who are interested and busy are not the ones who slip out and go home. Almost every woman makes or buys aprons to be given as Christmas gifts. We all delight to receive one, but how often the delight changes to disappointment when the aprons are tried on and are found to be uncomfortable and poor fitting. This year, when good materials are so difficult to get, it is more important than ever to have those who in the past have given "just any apron" consider whether the style and fit they select will be suitable for the one who will wear the apron. One ward with a very enterprising work leader planned a most successful apron day last fall. By looking ahead she was able to purchase enough materials and trimmings for the use of her group. No organdy ruffling was obtainable, but she found an organdy curtain which she had hemstitched in strips. This provided plenty of ruffling. Other trimming was picked up here and there, and soon the class leader had a very interesting assortment of materials and findings for her day. Patterns were selected carefully so that there were some suitable to each material and to every type of figure. Invitations were given to the ward women to come, purchase their materials, cut their aprons, and sew and fit them in the regular work meeting. Making aprons in a group is fun Page 563 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 because many ideas may be exchanged. Even though a ward leader may feel that she cannot purchase enough material this year for her entire group, such a day could still be carried out by using all the material available and having every woman who has an apron length of print tucked away in her home bring it for her own use. Odd lengths of bindings, bias tape, rickrack, and bits of lace, too, might be donated. When they are all brought together it will be astonishing to discover what can be done with them. Every tiny scrap can be utilized some way in Relief Society. Save odd pieces of material for toys or gift wrappings which will be discussed in future articles in the Magazine on activities for work-meeting days. This year let us help each other to see the possibilities in the things that are on hand. see: "Combination Apron and Sewing Bag," Relief Society Magazine, February 1945, pages 96-97. "Utility Aprons," Relief Society Magazine, March 1945, page 183. "Notes From the Field," Mount Ogden Stake, Relief Society Magazine, August 1944, page 457. MY KITCHEN WINDOWS Violet Harris Hendrickson Today I planned my kitchen With crisp new window curtains. I fashioned them from bits of Swiss With dots like falling snow, And lest they seem too wintry, I appliqued bright flowers In a saucy row. I shined and polished every pane. To feel the sunlight's golden kiss, And prayed, "Oh, Father, Bless all the world With peace and joy like this!" LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 3?The Journey Westward Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, December 4, 1945 Objective: To trace the march of the saints westward, and to show that physical hardship can be more easily endured by those who are supported by the spirit of the Lord than by those who are without his spirit. WHEN the Lord set his hand to fulfill his promise and gather Israel, far-reaching were the results. Especially was this true in regard to the journey of the Mormon pioneers. To trace the westward march of the Mormon pioneers under the vigorous hand of President Brigham Young makes real the beginning scenes of God's promise to bring again Israel. A few comparisons of the journey of Israel of old with that of its modern counterpart are interesting. Under Moses were a people of one tongue, having the same customs and racial background that living as a nation brings. Brigham Young led a band of people whose roots were deep within no one nation but many, for the gospel call was to all the world. Ancient Israel was fed manna by the hand of the Lord; the pioneers of our day not only carried their own provisions, but, of necessity, had to plant en route for others to reap. It was to a land of milk and honey, of fertile soil and vineyards, that God sent his people in the days of yore; the modern Israelites for the cause of Zion had left homes of comfort to go into a wilderness, a vast terrain, which early trappers doubted could be made successfully to yield any crop. Had not the Lord planted in the hearts of these pioneers a faith in his word, the marvelous work of the latter days could never have been accomplished. Let it not be felt that suffering and pain were always the lot of the saints, though great indeed at times was their anguish. There was always a joy of spirit which blessed their efforts and made even the physical hardships lighter. To know the true heart of these souls is to know the perfect balance in life between material and spiritual values. With threats, day in and day out, from mobocrats and corrupt government officials, the saints learned to hold their peace and live. Page 565 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 For them it was the kingdom of God first, with the assurance that all else would be added. Such a spirit made them build the Nauvoo Temple, knowing their joy within its walls was to be only a matter of months. In fact, this beautiful edifice was not dedicated until after the great majority of the saints was on the march, having left to some three hundred persons the satisfaction of presenting to the Lord, in ceremonial prayer, this most stately of structures then to be found upon the upper windings of the Mississippi River. Nor were these people without their music and dancing. It is recorded within the diaries of many that after the ordinances of the day had been performed in the House of the Lord, there was often a period of recreation. To cover, within the allotted words for this lesson, even a hundredth part of the story of the journey from Nauvoo to the valleys of the mountains would demand the most strict editing of the facts. It is hoped, therefore, that while presenting this interesting part of our history, the teacher will bring to the class, whenever possible, the diaries of pioneers, together with any of their personal effects long preserved and cherished from early days: a fancy pair of gloves, a piece of prized silver, an exquisite shawl, a hand-painted dish or other such loved appointments of the cultured home. These things, somehow, found their way into the barrel bottoms, the odd box corners, and, often, an opportune opening in a wagon-bed. Here was a people sensitive. Too, to the fine arts of living even in the midst of hard requirements which schooled the heart to forego the luxuries. It was the spirit of the Lord, day and night, that made possible the arduous journey across the plains. A firm belief in him and his word put courage in the step and faith in the heart. Ever bear in mind this thought to understand fully the zeal with which the saints traveled on each different day with the hope for better things. What are the significant facts of the pioneers' journey westward? In the dead of winter, the first of the saints crossed the Mississippi from Nauvoo to begin the trek. It was Wednesday, the 4th of February, 1846. Two days later ferrying began in earnest. At the same time as this march by land began, there set sail from the New York harbor the S. S. Brooklyn, to carry by sea around Cape Horn and on to San Francisco two hundred and thirty-five members of the Church. Loaded within this vessel was also a good supply of all kinds of farming implements, tools for the carpenter, the blacksmith, and the wheelwright, together with the machinery for two gristmills and a sawmill. In addition, there were books on various subjects, a press with type and enough paper to start the printed word among the saints when they should arrive in their new-found home. Samuel Brannan was given the directions for this undertaking. It was to become a helping hand, extending material aid to the other companies of foot-weary emigrants whose weighted wagons, of necessity, had to load lightly the iron implements so needed to break the valley sod. LESSON DEPARTMENT 567 To those who were to travel by land or sea came the word from President Young: When the time comes to start westward we will continue to gather until Israel is gathered: let there be no feelings about who shall go first; those who go first will lay the foundations for those who shall come after, and none will be neglected in their time (D. H. C. Vol. VIL, P- 575)- Most of the month of February was spent, by those preparing for the journey by wagons, at a camp on Sugar Creek, Iowa, while, day by day, additional families rolled in to swell the number of exiles. Council meetings were held both at the camp and back in Nauvoo to lay plans for caring for the destitute and needy, many of whom had rushed off without proper supplies for the journey. President Young was prompted to give direct instructions to members of the camp as follows: I wish the brethren to stop running to Nauvoo, hunting, fishing, roasting their shins, idling away their time, and fix nose-baskets for their horses, and save their corn, and fix comfortable places for their wives and children to ride, and never borrow without asking leave, and be sure to return what was borrowed, lest your brother be vexed with you and in his anger curse you and then you would be cursed according to the power of the priesthood that brother possesses and evil will come upon you (D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 586). In this winter outpost much suffering from the cold was endured. Nine infants were born at Sugar Creek during those February days. Dr. Richards recorded in his journal for the 19th: The wind blew steadily from the northwest accompanied by snow which fell to a depth of seven or eight inches, but much thawed as it fell, the storm was unceasing, and the evening was very cold (D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 593). March of 1846 came in like a lion, and in its extreme cold the camp at Sugar Creek broke up. The journey west began in earnest. All through this month and the month of April which followed, the steady stream of saints pushed over the heavy soil of Iowa with its grassy and rolling lands and deep ravines. By April 24, some one hundred and forty-five miles west of Nauvoo, a camp site was selected and named Garden Grove. Here, within a short period, a thriving village was set upon a clearing. Samuel Bent was named president with Aaron Johnson and David Fullmer as counselors to direct this camp of Israel. Here, many of the saints were to remain, build, and plant for those who were to come after. President Brigham Young saw the need of holding ground while extending ever westward the march to the mountains. By now the great body of the saints had left Nauvoo. May brought the return of spring to the prairies. By the 18th, President Young, in company with Parley P. Pratt and others, found joy in the sights there were on every hand. Elder Pratt writes: One day riding about three or four miles through beautiful prairies, I came suddenly to some round and sloping hills, grassy, and crowned with beautiful groves of timber; while alternate open groves and forests seemed blended in all the beauty and harmony of an English park. While beneath and beyond, on the west, rolled a main branch of the Grand River, with its rich bottoms of alternate forest and prairie. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 As I approached this lovely scenery, several deer and wolves, being startled at the sight of me, abandoned the place and bounded away till lost from my sight and the groves. Being pleased and excited at the varied beauty before me, I cried out "this is Mount Pisgah" (D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 607). With joy and the returning hope of the new season of the year, the saints set about building their second camp of major importance in Iowa. Land was fenced and preparations begun for planting and home building. William Huntington, Ezra T. Benson, and Charles C. Rich were chosen to take charge. But for President Young and his party the call was to press on. Over Indian trails and rude bridges they traveled until, on June 14, they arrived at the banks of the muddy Missouri not far from Council Bluffs. They were then in the land of the Potawatomis, a friendly tribe whose chiefs were kind. By the 29th, companies were ferrying across the river. At Council Bluffs, President Young waited to gather in the long train of companies, for he was desirous of giving his people instructions. When some five hundred wagons had wheeled in, their leader addressed the saints assembled. He warned them to be faithful to the Lord and press on. Wicked men would seek to prevent them from doing so, he said, but the saints would find the place to which the Lord would have them go if they would heed his words. Things now seemed right for the journey to continue, the summer months lay ahead and the Platte River with its green banks and shallow eddies lay flattened out some five hundred miles across the level plains of Nebraska. Here was the life-line of shade and drink for the travelers. Then came Wyoming and its Sweetwater leading high into the bracing air of the Rockies. Yes, the journey from here on gave a feeling of uplift and freedom in the heart. Then, too, it was June time of the year. On the closing day of this month came word from Washington. Captain James Allen of the United States Army arrived on the 30th to put an end to dreams. His credentials were for the raising of five hundred men to serve as volunteers in the war with Mexico, recently declared. Strange that a government which would permit thousands of its citizens to be mobbed, now should turn and ask such a people for the flower of their manhood to fight a war. Here was a chance for the saints to turn the other cheek, and this they did courageously. Five hundred men stepped forth within a period of weeks to complete the longest march in the history of the United States infantry. They not only wrote a chapter in the story of Mormon allegiance to the flag, but they were blessed to come through the war unharmed. "Detachments of the battalion who wintered at Pueblo... Together with the main body of the Mississippi Saints entered the Salt Lake Valley, under direction of Captain James Brown," only five days after the arrival of the original company, bringing with them sixty wagons, one hundred head of fine horses and mules, and three hundred head of cattle. LESSON DEPARTMENT 569 How strange the ways of the Lord! Had it been written that upon the arrival of most of the saints in the promised land, domestic animals and modern wains would be there to greet them, would not this have taken a test of faith to believe! But this did not come to pass, however, without sacrifices, for because of the weakened condition of the main body of the saints, with the able-bodied men gone, it became necessary to make preparations for the coming winter. It was a bitter season of snow these exiles spent at Winter Quarters. Many lived in dugouts along the muddy bluffs not far from the Missouri River. At least the saints were consoled in the thought that they had been given permission to remain in that country, and had there found a true friend in Colonel Thomas L. Kane, who importuned the President of the United States in their behalf. Today, as solemn testimony of the bleak winter spent in Nebraska, there stands upon a hill in Florence a Mormon cemetery, within whose graves lie the bodies of many saints and those of infants born but to die of exposure in the cold. With their faces toward the east they await the call of a brighter morn. With the davming of the year 1847 came the voice of the Lord to:... President Brigham Young, at Winter Quarters, giving instructions for the guidance of the camps of Israel on their journeyings to the west. The Saints were to be organized into companies, with captains over hundreds, fifties and tens, as the case had been while journeying across Iowa. These companies were to be presided over by a president and two counselors, under the direction of the Twelve Apostles, who were at the head of all the camps of Israel. The Saints were to enter into a covenant "to keep all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, p. 433). It was further the command of the Lord that departure for the West should be early in the spring in order to provide for the planting of crops. April 5, 1847, was the day when the march began. On up the north side of the Platte River it went, over the south pass of the Rocky Mountains, past Fort Bridger, west through Echo and East Canyons, then on to Big and Little Mountains which pointed to Emigration Canyon and the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. Stories of the landmarks of the plains, the forts, the Indians, the wild beasts and the travelers met en route, go to make up this eventful trek, until, from a bed in a carriage. President Young raised himself to look over the valley in the heart of the mountains and say, "This is the place, drive on." It was in July, the month commemorating independence, that the saints arrived. Grateful and happy they were to mark their day of freedom in a new land as the 24th, which, singularly enough, counted the exact number of years since the Angel Moroni first brought the restored gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part in the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. As early as six months after the organization of the Church the Lord, speaking through his prophet Joseph Smith, said the gathering of his elect "into one place upon the face of this land" must take place (Doc. And Gov. 29:8). Why are we as a people in a better position today to under stand the wisdom of the Lord in sounding such a call than were the few saints who were present when the revelation was given in September of 1830? In drawing out the answer to this question have the class reflect upon the world conditions today. These may be listed. Read Doc. and Cov. sections 1, 38, 88, 93 in the Doc. and Cov. Commentary. Found in these verses. Read any section in Doc. and Cov. 33.
Have section 136 of the Doctrine and Covenants read with its introductory paragraph. Pay particular attention to the following parts of the revelation: verses 3, 6, 8, 10, 16, 20, 28, 31, 35, 36, 39. In the light of the lesson have these discussed.
3. What are some of the interesting facts you know of the journey to the Rocky Mountains? Read chapters 37, 38, 39 in Essentials in Church History.
The following questions may be used if needed for further class activity or they may be assigned for home study. What facts of human interest may be gained from the diaries of the pioneers? Read "Through Diaries of Long Ago," Children's Friend, July 1942.
Special Note: Be sure to make full use of other material in the July 1944 issue of The Relief Society Magazine for study in connection with the course in Church History.
(Note: On this map an error was made in locating Harmony. The town of Harmony, now known as Oakland, should be located on the Susquehanna River, just south of the state line of New York and Pennsylvania. See Essentials in Church History, map page 47.) Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 3?Charity Envieth Not Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, December 4, 1945
Objective: To show that the cultivation of the spirit of charity will rid our lives of envy.
ENVY works on the mind much as cancer does on the body. Instead of enriching the mind from without, it destroys it from within. Envy is a product of covetousness; it looks upon and desires that which is not its own, but upon that which belongs to another. Its ways are unholy evil: envy keeps one in misery by focusing his attention on that which he lacks; at the same time, it diverts one's energy from acquiring objects of one's desire in a profitable and legitimate way; and envy
causes one to dislike, and even to hate, the person who possesses that which he desires for himself.
Envy cannot be conquered by a frontal attack, by concentrating on the evil itself. To rid our lives of envy, we must look first for its cause, and second, to some power even greater than envy itself with which to erase it.
Envy has its roots in our own lack. It is an admission that we are not prepared to live a rich, soul-satisfying life. LESSON DEPARTMENT 571 Living the gospel win enable us to overcome the feeling of lack in our lives and rob envy of its nourishment. Alma tells us that, if we will plant the seed of faith (in the word of God) in our hearts, and nourish it with patience until it takes root in us, that by and by we?... Shall pluck the fruit thereof, which is most precious, which is sweet above all that is sweet, and which is white above all that is white, yea, and pure above all that is pure; and ye shall feast upon this fruit even until ye are filled, that ye hunger not, neither shall ye thirst (Alma 32:42 also note verses 27-43). "Charity seeketh not her own." She rejoices in the success of others. She is aware, not of her own needs, but of the needs of others. Hers is the spirit of giving, of helping, of loving. A heart full of charity has no place in it for envy. Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 3?Bible Influences As Revealed in Our Lyric Literature Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, December 18, 1945 Glory to God in the highest, And on earth peace. Good will toward men. THIS heavenly lyric, voiced by angels over gentle Bethlehem in the long, long ago, touches the heart of our study. Its soulful lines carry a message of divine meaning for wayward humanity. They point the way toward heaven. This inspiring song is sometimes called the first of Christmas carols. Carol singing among human folk, however, did not come until more than a thousand years following that holy night. And yet, it was the inspiration of that beautiful song and the coming of the Christ child it heralded which gave to us the car- (Luke 2:14) ols we love to sing to help keep Christmas a holy day. In a true sense, a carol is a song of praise for a festal occasion. As Christianity was spread among the common folk, their joyousness began to find expression, particularly at Christmas time, in singing praise to the Savior. Lyric lines springing out of their hearts became, with time, charming folk songs; and the best loved of these were passed on through the years. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 From this rich heritage we get such soul-lifting expressions as the following; It came upon the midnight clear, that glorious song of old, From angels bending near the earth, to touch their harps of gold; Peace on earth, good will to men; from heav'n's gracious king. The world in solemn stillness lay to hear the angels sing. O come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant; O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem; Come and behold him, born the king of angels; O come let us adore him, O come let us adore him, O come let us adore him, Christ the Lord! Some of our gifted writers, catching the spirit of the folk carols, have created lyrics which take place with those time-honored songs. Among these are Luther's "Cradle Hymn" and "Silent Night, Holy Night" by Franz Gruber, known by heart and sung in many tongues. Another that holds our affection for its sweetness and light is "O Little Town of Bethlehem" by Phillips Brooks, inspired on a Christmas Eve spent by him in this town where the Savior was born. Following is the first stanza of that beautiful song: O little town of Bethlehem! How still we see thee lie; Above thy deep and dreamless sleep, The silent stars go by; Yet in thy dark streets shineth The everlasting light; The hopes and fears of all the years Are met in thee tonight. All down the years the story of the Christ child, with the angels and the shepherds, the star and the wise men, has been the inspiration of lyric expression. Countless songs have been and are still being created around this theme. Another sacred theme that has profoundly influenced our lyric literature is the resurrection of the Savior. To a world groping in spiritual darkness, this divine event brought radiant light. With the sublime revelation that man can rise from the tomb into immortal existence, life took on new meaning, more heavenly purpose. For art expression, it was the opening of a new vista, arched by a rainbow of hope for a more glorious future. Lyric lines, expressive of faith in immortality, accepting death as a part of the eternal life plan, as but a portal opening into a larger life, are to be found in many outstanding poems. Following are a few such sincere and helpful expressions: Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returneth. Was not spoken of the soul. ?"Psalm of Life," Longfellow Ah, well for us all some sweet hope lies Deeply buried from human eyes. And in the hereafter angels may Roll the stone from its grave away. ?"Maud Muller," Whittier #? * I stay my haste, I make delays? For what avails this eager pace? I stand amid the eternal ways And what is mine shall know my face. ?"Waiting," John Burroughs * ?# Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar, When I put out to sea. But such a tide as moving seems asleep. Too full for sound and foam. When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home. Twilight and evening bell. And after that the dark And may there be no sadness of farewell. When I embark; LESSON DEPARTMENT 573 For though from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to meet my Pilot face to face When I have crossed the bar. ?"Crossing the Bar," Tennyson Another appealing theme was found in the loving service of the Savior. His living lessons in true charity, tolerance, brotherhood, neighborliness, and other Christian virtues have been a constant inspiration to authors. Illustrations that follow are typical of thousands of lines that echo the divine precepts and example of the Master in making the gospel live among men: She never found fault with you, never implied Your wrong by her right; and yet men at her side Grew nobler, girls purer, as through the whole town The children were gladder that pulled at her gown? ?"My Kate," Elizabeth Barrett Browning *?? It is not just as we take it. This mystical world of ours. Life's field will yield as we make it A harvest of thorns or of flowers. ?"Perseverance," Goethe KY God send us a little home To come back to when we roam. Red firelight and deep chairs. Small white beds upstairs. Homely flowers in brown sod. Overhead thy stars, O God! ?"Prayer for Home," Anonymous If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching.... I shall not live in vain. ?"Success," Emily Dickinson I see from my house by the side of the road, By the side of the highway of life. The men who press on with the ardor of hope. The men who are faint with the strife. But I turn not away from their smiles nor their tears? Both parts of an infinite plan; Let me live in a house by the side of the road And be a friend of man. ?"The House by the Side of the Road," Sam Walter Foss All such poetical expressions serve to further the great purpose of the Savior in bringing the gospel to earth. He spent his life doing good among men. Lyrical lines such as these help us to see more clearly the inner meaning of his divine work, and to feel something of the joy of our Father in heaven when we follow in the footsteps of his Only Begotten Son. It was something of this thought that inspired James Whitcomb Riley when he penned in homely dialect the little poem called ?Jim?? a tribute to a self-sacrificing shoemaker. Jim was always giving, always helping and cheering those who came to his shop. Even in his closing days, when an incurable illness was taking his strength, the kindly cobbler had ever a pleasant word to give to others. And after he had passed to his reward, the poet has one of Jim's fellow workers say tenderly: When God made Jim, I bet he didn't do anything else that day But jest set around and feel good. No small contribution to the bringing of the Savior into our daily lives has been made by gifted poets of our own faith. Songs of their creation that we love to sing not only keep us actively helpful, but also lift us closer to a heaven of reality, where the warmth of both father and mother love awaits those RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1945 who win salvation through a life of righteousness. This appealing truth finds most artistic expression in "O My Father," a lyric prayer by Eliza R. Snow, which ranks among the finest of religious poems. Besides the wealth of carols and hymns, anthems and oratorios linking directly with the Bible, there is a wealth of other lyrics that are in tune with its spirit. Songs of innocent childhood, of nature in all her moods, of home and friends, of pure love, of loyalty and patriotism?all are in consonance with true religion. Lines like these that follow surely lift us a little nearer heaven: My heart leaps up when I behold a rainbow in the sky. ?Wordsworth The little bird sits at his door in the sun A-tilt like a blossom among the leaves. ?Lowell I can hear the robin's warble and the meadowlark's sweet trills All around the dear old homestead lyin' there among the hills. ?Harrison R. Merrill But the air's so appetizin'; and the landscape through the haze Of a crisp and sunny morning of the early autumn days Is a pictur' that no painter has the colorin' to mock? When the frost is on the pumpkin and the fodder's in the shock. ?"When the Frost Is On the Punkin," James Whitcomb Riley It has been a long evening. I have watched A sky of clouds go by. God lent A crown of sunshafts To flash and fall away. I am content. ?Leon Loofbourow Think every morning when the birds peep through The dim, leaf-latticed windows of the grove. How jubilant the happy birds renew Their old melodious madrigals of love! And when you think of this, remember, too, 'Tis always morning somewhere, and above The awakening continents from shore to shore Somewhere the birds arc singing evermore. ?Longfellow I'm hungering in the city for the smell of fragrant timber. For the valleys where the birchbark smoke goes curling through the trees. For the lazy miles of lakeshore, where the blue waves kiss the pebbles, In the land of skyblue water, up beyond the inland seas. ?May Stanley And last, this soul-stirring stanza from a nineteen-year-old American air pilot who gave his life to help preserve our freedom: Up, up the long delirious blue I've topped the wind-swept heights with easy grace Where never lark, or even eagle flew? And while with silent lifting mind I've trod The high untrespassed sanctity of grace, Put out my hand and touched the face of God. ?John G. Magee, Jr. Discussion and Activities 1. (a) Be prepared to respond to roll call of your class with one or two lyric hnes from a favorite carol, (b) Join with class members in singing a carol chosen by your class leader, or chorister. 2. What memory gem in verse has helped you hold some precious gospel principle before yourself or inspired you to keep doing good? Join with your class in recalling lines that inspire hope, courage, humility, cheerfulness, love of home, honesty, neighborliness, or other Christian virtues. For example: "It's the songs ye sing, and the smiles ye wear, That's a-makin' the sunshine everywhere.
3. (a) What is the two-fold meaning of the expression, "learning a song by heart"? (b) Show with lines from a song you have thus learned how some song writer of our faith has helped to keep a precious truth or commandment in our heart. What truth, for example, is impressed in "O My Father"? in "Come, Come, Ye Saints"?
4. (a) What is a well-known song, anthem or oratorio which was inspired by the Bible, such as, "The Holy City" or "The Messiah."
(b) What, in a more general sense, is the influence of the Bible on lyric poetry? Select a poem or lyric of a modern song which, though it does not allude directly to any character or story, or use words or lines from the Bible, yet reveals the uplift of Holy Writ.
Suggestive Activity: Let each class member begin the making of a scrap book, or collection of choice modern lyrics expressing of truth, beauty, and goodness. Social Science NO social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season. THE CLOSE OF LIFE Evelyn Fjelsted Shall not the close of life be sweet-Like coming home some tranquil day When one has wished so long to come, But home seemed ever far away? Like knowing suddenly there was No cause at all for grief or fear When one has been so much afraid And nothing in the world seemed clear;' Like realizing that, at last, A burden one has carried long Is laid aside and one is free To live again with hope and song; Like seeing life?yes, glorious life In all its grand simplicity. When life has seemed complex and strange. When one has seen small victory? MOUNTAIN SONG Ivy Houtz Woolley My heart is singing wild, a mountain song; The mountain tops are singing back to me! The gay-toned melodies now wing along, And murmur, as they pass, that I am free. Yes, free to dance upon the world's wide rim. And free to soar into the changing skies. My feet keep time to this tumultuous hymn, My blood through every secret channel flies, My throat bursts forth in a melodious strain. The crags ring back an echo, and I hear A flood of sound, swept in like breeze-tossed rain; A thousand symphonies play in my ear. Sing! Mountain, sing! Nor miss a single beat? I cast me down in homage at your feet! Page 576 The Church Offers Young Latter-day Saints THE BEST IN COLLEGE TRAINING By Maintaining The BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY at Provo, Utah REGISTRATION for the FALL QUARTER OCTOBER 1 and 2 Preliminary examinations for new students September 28 and 29 Send for your catalogue now M-U-S-I-C SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY BLESS THIS HOUSE 15c HOMING?Del Riego 15c MY OWN AMERICA? Wrubel. 20c LITTLE OLD GARDEN I5c HOME?Van Steeden 15c AMERICAN PRAYER 15c Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount, plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC ca. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 IDEAS! INSPIRATION! For teachers of Social Science ?MORAL TEACHINGS of the NEW TESTAMENT? By Milton Bennion Emeritus Professor of Philosophy and Dean of the School of Education, University of Utah, General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board. YOU HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS EDITION, Mail this coupon DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple St., P. O. Box 958, Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send me copies of Dean Bennion's "Moral Teachings of the New Testament." at $1.50. Herewith $ Name - - -- Address When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE BIBLE IS A LIFETIME GIFT Choose It carefully BE SURE, for instance, that it is the Beloved King James (authorized) Version which has been the world favorite for more than two centuries. Be sure, too, that the type is clear and readable... That the binding is built to last. National has published fine editions of the King James Version exclusively for more than 80 years. THE NATIONAL BIBLE press Publishers of quality Bibles since 1863 At your-Bible Bookstore 