THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Associate Editor Marianne C. Sharp

Vol. 32 MAY 1945 No. 5

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Belle Smith Spafford Called to Be Ninth General President of Relief Society, April 1945 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 259
Marianne Clark Sharp President Amy Brown Lyman 262
Gertrude Ryberg Garff Edith Smith Elliott 265
Amy Brown Lyman President Belle S. Spafford 269
Marcia Knowlton Howells President Amy Brown Lyman 272
Vera White Pohlman President Belle S. Spafford 275
Erratum: Mary Smith Ellsworth Not Released 281
He's Coming Home, Let's Spruce Up Hon. Earl J. Glade 282
All-Year Care of the Rose Beds Hazel D. Moyle 284
The Magazine Honor Roll for 1944 Vera White Pohlman 292

FICTION
Ten Miles to Calico (Part II) Martha Robeson Wright 287

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 278
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 279
Editorials: Relief Society Achievements 1944-45 President Belle S. Spafford 280
Howard S. McDonald Appointed President of B. Y. U Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 281
Notes From the Field Vera White Pohlman 314

POETRY
Relief Society Amy Jeanne Donner 261
Parallel Alice Morrey Bailey 264
Fulfillment Mabel Jones Gabbott 267
From Unnamed Mountains Dott J. Sartori 271
Meadow Lark Grace M. Candland 274
Forever Beauty Anna Prince Redd 277
A Soldier's Tribute to Mother May H. Marsh 320

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 72,000
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 32, NO. 5 MAY 1945 MOTHER'S DAY-1945 Etta S. Robbins The sun looks down upon a world of strife That avarice and hate have brought about. The teachings of our Lord, who gave us life, From hearts of countless men are blotted out. The earth is reeking with the stench of war In air, on sea and land the din and fray Resound through waves of ether near and far, And mar the happiness of Mother's Day. Though muted grief, too deep for words or tears. Close tight the lips and bow the heads in prayer. The mothers of the land shall conquer fears. Their faith and courage shield from dire despair. Their all-enduring love touch hearts of men And help the balm of peace to flow again. The Cover: The cover "Peonies in May" is from a photograph by Thomas J. Howells, M. D. BELLE SMITH SPAFFORD Belle Smith Spafford Called to Be Ninth General President of Relief Society, April 1945 Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor in General Presidency "O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day" (Doc. And Gov. 4:2). THE admonition of the Lord contained in the above verse of the Doctrine and Covenants, a favorite quotation of Belle Smith Spafford, has been heeded by her throughout life. This observance coupled with the manner in which she has developed her great capabilities in working for the Relief Society resulted in the call by the First Presidency, on April 6, 1945, of Sister Spafford to become the ninth general president of Relief Society.
President Spafford will be welcomed to her new position by a host of friends, members of the Relief Society throughout the United States and in the stakes of Canada and Mexico, whom she has met during the past ten years while she has traveled extensively in the interest of the Society. They will recall her affectionately for her friendly interest in regard to their special problems, and the ability which she has demonstrated in helping to solve them.
It was just ten years ago this April 1945 that Sister Spafford was called by President Louise Y. Robison from her position as counselor to President Marie Tanner of the Wells Stake Relief Society to become a member of the General Board. In December of 1937, she was asked to assume the added responsibility of being editor of The Relief Society Magazine, following the death of Sister Mary C. Kimball. During the eight years that Sister Spafford has edited the Magazine it has had a phenomenal growth in subscriptions   increasing from 40,000 in 1937 to 72,000 as of April 1945. The excellence of the contents has been of a high order which has steadily improved over the years, reflecting the advancement of the women of the Church in writing skills. It was in 1942 that a short-story contest was inaugurated by the General Board which has resulted in encouraging Church women to enter the field of fiction and improved the content of the Magazine in that line. As editor she has consistently manifested a great desire to meet first, the spiritual, and then the literary reading needs of the readers of the Magazine. When Sister Lyman was called to become general president, in 1940, she retained Sister Spafford as editor, and gave to her the added responsibility of serving as an editor of A Centenary of Relief Society published to commemorate the first hundred years of the Society. The knowledge gained from this experience has given to Sister Spafford a broad understanding of the rise and development of the Society which will prove invaluable to her in her new position.
In addition to editorial duties, President Spafford has always carried her full share of General Board responsibilities, and has done preeminent work as the chairman of important committees. Her ability in this line was signally recognized in November 1942 when she was called by President Lyman to succeed Sister Donna D. Sorensen as her second counselor in charge of educational work. The faithful performance by President Spafford of every call which has been made upon her for Church service whether to serve in the Sunday School, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association or the Relief Society, to which so many years of her life have been devoted, has culminated in the present call to head the great Relief Society.
BELLE SMITH SPAFFORD was born of goodly parents. She has never known the loving, watchful care of a father for her own father, John Gibson Smith, who was born in Toode, died when he was only forty years old and before Belle Smith Spafford was born. Her young mother was thus left to face life alone and to rear her six children and an orphaned son of a brother. The family resided in Salt Lake City. Sister Smith was a true Latter-day Saint, and her wise sayings are often quoted by her descendants and continue to guide them in their daily conduct.
Sister Spafford received her schooling in the Salt Lake City schools, at the L.D.S. high school and is a graduate of the University of Utah Normal School. The teaching skill which she gained in the years she spent teaching in the Salt Lake City schools and at the Training School at the Brigham Young University has been reflected in the professional supervision which she has given to the better teaching of the lessons taught in Relief Society. She pays high tribute to the influence on her life of that great personality President George H. Brimhall who imbued her with the importance of religious and spiritual values in education, and of that outstanding educator, President Franklin S. Harris, for helping her to appreciate the values of high educational standards and the necessity of continuous application in improving one's teaching skills.
President Spafford is the wife of Willis Earl Spafford who is Field Deputy of Internal Revenue. Without his tender care which he always has guarded her, without his unselfish acceptance of the calls which have been made upon her time, increasing with the passing of the years, without his full support and wholehearted co-operation, it would not have been possible for Sister Spafford to have continued her Church duties and at the same time to have cared for her family of two children. Their daughter Mary at the present time is doing postgraduate work in social work at the University of Utah, and their son, Earl Smith Spafford, is in the navy serving as a hospital apprentice at Portsmouth, Virginia.
In leading forward this greatest of all women's organization, President Belle Spafford's great concern, as has also been that of her predecessors in this office, will be to follow out, implicitly, the desires of the Priesthood in regard to Relief Society, and to so plan and so shape its activities as to fully support the great Church Welfare Plan, and to foster and strengthen in Relief Society members a living testimony of the gospel.
It will be a joy to me to work under the guidance of Sister Spafford in the general presidency of Relief Society. She is a thorough Latterday Saint and is guided in her decisions by the standards of the gospel. She is a considerate and fair fellow worker, always ready to undertake the major part of any assignment and to help out in any need, at the same time, however, expecting a high standard of performance in return. She is a tireless and prodigious worker. For the past eight years she has spent many hours of each working day on some phase of Relief Society activity, and her assignments have been many and varied. The great honor which has come to President Spafford may be considered as a merited blessing on her years of self-sacrificing and devoted service.
RELIEF SOCIETY Amy Jeanne Donnei One hundred years have vanished down the skies As apple blossoms disappear with spring, And still the work goes on! Strong, lingering, A Prophet's inspiration and command Still guide us, with a love that never dies. Throughout the years a valiant, growing band Of mothers, loyal, humble, kind and true. Has sought and helped the needy, lit anew The flame of hope in many a careworn heart, Soothed many a fevered brow with gentle hand, And strong and steadfast, gladly borne its part In trouble, and when famine swept the land. Dear Father, by whose blessings all these years Thy daughters have grown numerous and strong. Facing the coming years with quiet eyes, Humbly we pray for wisdom to do right. And courage that strides onward though through tears. And deep humility and faith in thee. That we may do thy will, and with the light Of truth and kindness and the Spirit's fire Hold high the standard that the Prophet gave With God's command and covenant unto Those mothers that he blessed so long ago. If we can be as gentle and as kind. As valiant, righteous, generous, and true As those first mothers, then our hearts' desire Thou wilt have granted, for we ask of thee But to be worthy of the name they bore. And of thy blessings on us, as of yore. Marianne Clark Sharp First Counselor in General Presidency, April 1945 President Amy Brown Lyman MARIANNE C. SHARP IT was while attending a Relief Society convention in New York City more than a decade ago, that I first learned of the excellent service being rendered the organization by Marianne Clark Sharp, the newly appointed first counselor in the general presidency of the Relief Society, who then resided there. She was pointed out as one of the ablest and most faithful workers in that locality and, best of all, one who was willing and happy to work wherever she was most needed. It mattered not to her whether it was as class leader, visiting teacher, officer, or lay member, her interest and enthusiasm in the work she had to do was always of the highest quality. Page 262 She served while in New York as literature and theology class leader, president of Queen's Branch Society, stake board member, and finally as stake counselor to Mrs. Lorena Fletcher. Mrs. Howard R. Driggs, also of New York, remarked at that time that Marianne would make a very excellent General Board member, and she expressed the hope that some day she would see her working in this capacity. It was only natural, after her return to Utah, that Sister Sharp should continue her work in the Relief Society cause. Her devotion and efficiency were soon recognized in both ward and stake where her work as a class leader became so outstanding that no one who knew her or her accomplishments was surprised at the call that came to her, in January 1940, to serve as a member of the General Board. And now at this time, her appointment, on April 6, 1945, as first counselor in the general presidency of the organization is heartily approved by Relief Society women generally, and especially by her fellow Board members who know her best and appreciate her most. Blessed with a noble heritage, a rich background, rare native endowments, broad education and training, and with unwavering faith in the gospel of the Master, Sister Sharp is especially well fitted for this place of honor and trust. She is also blessed with the support of a devoted and understanding husband, a Christian gentleman of the highest order, and a faithful Latterday Saint. Ivor Sharp to whom she was married in 1927 is the present manager of KSL. He came to this position from the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in New York City. He is known in the business world as a man of fine character, outstanding ability and distinction, and is loved, honored, and respected by his associates in business as well as by his fellow workers in the Church. There are three lovely and interesting children in the Sharp home Luceine (Sally) Louise, and Annetta. To these children the parents are devoted.
Sister Sharp is the daughter of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church, and the late Luceine Savage Clark. Theirs was a home where the standards of the Church were always strictly observed, and where the children were taught faith in God and in the latter-day work, that the greatest joy and satisfaction came to those who adhere to the religious life. Sister Luceine Savage Clark also loved and was devoted to Relief Society and its ideals, and worked in the organization all of her mature life. Her heart is no doubt made glad with joy and pride to have this greatly deserved honor come to her sweet and lovely daughter Marianne.
DURING her five years service on the General Board, Sister Sharp has visited conferences and conventions and she has served on a number of important committees. Her major task, however, has been in the editorial field. With her discriminating judgment, quickness of perception, clarity of mind, and her capacity for work, and with the diligence and dispatch with which she works, she has given invaluable service as an editor. She assisted our new General President Belle S. Spafford in compiling, preparing, and editing A Centenary of Relief Society, published by the General Board during our centennial year, 1942. For a period she was assistant to Sister Spafford, the editor of The Relief Society Magazine, and, in 1943, was named associate editor in which capacity she has served since that time. The many positions which Marianne has held have all come to her unsought. She has accepted these calls because she is obedient and because of her sense of service and her ardent desire to do something helpful for her Church and for her community.
Sister Sharp received her education in the grade and high schools of Washington, D. C. and at the University of Utah. From the latter institution she was graduated, in 1934, with high honors. She was awarded a teaching fellowship in Latin during her senior year and she continued teaching that subject at the University after her graduation.
Sister Sharp has rare gifts of spirit, mind and heart, with a deep humility. She is frank and honest, tender and sympathetic. She is generous and appreciative of the work and ability of others. While she has clear-cut, positive views, she is always open minded and teachable, always ready to listen to the views of others. But with her right and principle must come first. Above all she is loyal to those in her position of authority over her and gives them full support. She has great reverence for and is always obedient to the Priesthood. With these fine characteristics and qualifications her future is sure to be one of achievement. PARALLEL Alice Money Bailey I Strong and lithe they were, and full of grace  The legend sons of Helaman  for such, In tenderness, he called them, loved them much, Though they were soldiers his the right of mace Above them. Striplings all, they were  each face Unbearded; sweet of mouth as yet no touch Of war was theirs, no guilty shame, no clutch Of fear: The pure in heart! The swift of pace! And when he asked: "Would ye go out to fight?" They answered: "Yea! To free our fathers' land"  Rehearsed their mothers' teachings how the right Prevailed. In soberness they took the brand. Nor wavered in belief the God of might Would hold their precious lives within his hand. II Troubled in his soul and torn with doubt Was Helaman for on the plain below The battle raged. On Nephite friends, the foe Had turned the Lamanites and runner, scout Brought only news of tragedy and rout. For Antipus was slain, and blow on blow Was dealt his reeling columns. Tardy, slow. The leader sent his sons to draw them out. They fought as gods that day. Each flashing sword Was steeled by righteousness, the searing strain Of conflict ribbed by faith. At last, the horde, Abject, surrendered. Helaman, in pain Of fear, set forth to count. Proud words record Not one of his two thousand lads was slain! III The centuries roll out on a disk of time That turns upon itself" for still men lust For power and riches, fame and toss the crust Of beggary to brother men each age a mime Of ages gone before. The parts, sublime And wretched all are there the foul, the just, The valiant. Nations leap to glory, rust. Decay, and crumble. Man alone is prime. Still mothers teach their youth simplicity. Obedience, faith and love 'and how to shun The coils of earth how touch infinity. Still are some who pray when day is done, Who know the source of power Divinity  And still in battle Sons of Helaman. Gertrude Ryberg Garff Second Counselor in General Presidency, April 1945 Edith Smith Elliott THE wise selection of Gertrude Ryberg Garff as second counselor to President Belle Smith Spafford of the Latter-day Saint Relief Society will be a blessing to the women of the Church. Her training and background fit her admirably for her new position. Above all else, she has a firm testimony of the gospel of Jesus Ghrist, and although young in years, she is old in experience. Sister Garff was born in Hyrum, Utah, to Charlotte Critchlow and Eric William Ryberg. Both the Critchlows and the Rybergs contribute a rich heritage to Gertrude. Her mother's forbears rank high in early educational fields and were participants in the American Revolution. Sister Ryberg has been a leader, active in Relief Society. Gertrude's father's parents were converts to the Church from Sweden. They settled in Logan, Utah, and played a forceful part in the development of that community. Brother Ryberg has been a successful contractor and is an outstanding executive in the business world. Sister Garff was five years old when the family moved to Salt Lake City in Wasatch Ward. She is fortunate to have had parents who trained her in the paths of knowledge and righteousness. She has always had great faith in her Heavenly Father, which has been a great source of comfort to her. She has been a firm believer in the fact that GERTRUDE R. GARFF *'faith without works is dead," so she has willingly done her part.   She completed her early studies in the Salt Lake City schools. Desiring further knowledge and training, she entered the University of Utah. At the end of her second year she received and honored a call to fill a mission for her Church. She was assigned to the Eastern States Mission under the presidency of Brother James H. Moyle. Here she labored as a field missionary in Jamestown, New York, and in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Her special assignment was radio work. Her mission strengthened her testimony in the divinity of Christ and gave her a religious schooling that has helped pattern her life.
Her mission furthered her desire for learning. She knew that the "glory of God is intelligence," so when she returned home she once more entered the University and graduated in 1935 with a Bachelor of Science degree. Her major was in textiles, with a minor in foods and child welfare.
IN October 1935, she married Mark Brimhall Garff, son of Tryphena Brimhall (sister of President George Brimhall) and George P. Garff. She had met her future husband (who had been home two years from a Danish mission) at a Granite Stake conference where they had both been called upon to discuss their missionary experiences.
In September 1937, Brother and Sister Garff were again called to the Lord's service this time to preside over the Danish Mission with headquarters in Copenhagen. Their son Mark was only two and one-half months old so this made the planning for so long a journey a major problem. However, with faith in God they lost no time settling to the task before them. Both were very young to be given so important an assignment but, in spite of this, they made an enviable record. Sister Garff learned the language so that she could assume her full responsibilities as head of the women's auxiliaries, with a special and personal interest in Relief Society. She won the love and trust of the Danish saints. Her warmth and understanding made her role as "mission mother" a source of strength to the
in the welfare of young people was ever apparent not has it even ceased since she returned to Zion.
Besides discharging her many missionary duties admirably, Gertrude found time to study the social, historical, economic, and cultural aspects of the Danes. She learned to love and appreciate these Norsemen. A lover of art, crafts, literature, and music, she spent any free time she had in museums, art galleries, and opera houses.
She enjoyed the companionship of her baby. She used to take him with her on bicycle rides in and around Copenhagen tucked into the baby's seat on the front of her bicycle.
When the war clouds gathered and broke into World War II, our missionaries were called home. The first available space that President Garff could obtain to transport his wife, little son, and several Scandinavian missionaries to home shores was on a tramp steamer. President Garff had to remain to reorganize the mission on a local basis. We can well imagine the anxiety of that parting. Faith alone made it possible. The ship had to take a northern route up around Iceland for safety. The voyage lasted seventeen days and the passage was unusually rough. Gertrude and the baby arrived home in November, in time to spend thanksgiving with her father and mother. By Christmas, President Garff returned safely and the little family was grateful to be reunited.
The following January 1940, Sister Garff was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society under its new president, Amy Brown Lyman. Sister Garff and Sister Lyman had developed a close friendship in Europe which Sister Lyman was presiding over the women's auxiliaries of the European mission. Sister Garff has said of her many occasions that she doesn't know how she could have carried on her great responsibilities had it not been for Sister Lyman's frequent letters of direction and encouragement. Sister Lyman's deep understanding of people and their problems, with her helpful disposition made it natural for Gertrude to turn to her for counsel and advice. She was very happy to be called into a continued association with so noble a character.
Sister Garff is friendly and approachable. She works well with people. She has the courage of her convictions, yet is pliable to the extent that if she is shown a better way she willingly accepts it. She attacks each assignment with an open-mindedness intelligence.
Gertrude and Mark have three young children: Mark R. (eight years), Charlotte (four years), and baby Georgia (one and one-half years). These human treasures along with her splendid husband receive her untiring devotion.
From her husband, her father, and her mother, she will receive maximum support in her new position.
FULFILLMENT
Mabel Jones Gabbott
The young bride dreamed of years ahead, All shining bright with lofty deeds, With this accomplishment and that She planned to meet the world's great needs.
The years came on with toil and pain, No great achievement came her way; Her life was filled with humble tasks, She met and wisely lived each day.
She swept and baked and sewed and sang; In holy partnership with God She brought a boy into the world And taught him rev'rence for the sod.
The mother, crowned with silvery hair, Looked back content when life was done. What greater gift could help the world Than this a fine and noble son?
Amy Brown Lyman
General President of Relief Society, January 1940 April 1945
President Belle S. Spafford
DURING the past 103 years, eight women, each richly endowed with leadership strength and possessing a strong testimony of the truth of the restored gospel, have presided over the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. One of the foremost of these distinguished leaders is Amy Brown Lyman, eighth general president of the Society.
Sister Lyman became a member of the Relief Society General Board in 1909. Her capabilities, fine spirit, zeal, and willingness to serve brought consistent advancement for her. In 1911 she was appointed assistant general secretary. This appointment was followed successively by her appointment as general secretary (1913-21), general secretary-treasurer (1921-1928), counselor to Louise Y. Robison in the general presidency (1928-39), and general president (1940-45).
Her administration has covered a momentous and unusually trying period in the history of the Society. Almost immediately upon taking over her duties as president, Sister Lyman, with the aid of her capable Board, enthusiastically initiated plans for an appropriate observance of the Relief Society centennial, two years away, including completion of the membership campaign which had been launched in 1935 for the purpose of enlisting 100,000 members by 1942. Straight thinking,
history of the Society and appreciation for the past, as well as a clear, certain, hopeful outlook upon the future, coupled with a fine understanding of the purposes of the Society and its meaning in the lives of Latter-day Saint women were needed to direct plans and activities for this important event. Possessing all of these qualifications President Lyman was ideally suited to preside at this time, and she was heavily drawn upon.
Due to the engagement of the United States in war, December 1941, all centennial plans did not mature; some were cancelled and the consummation of others delayed. However, there were many noteworthy and beneficial results from centennial activities. These, together with the graceful acceptance of the situation by Relief Society women and their ready adjustment to conditions are pronounced evidence of President Lyman's leadership strength.
Not only did the war affect the centennial observance, it also brought about modifications in the regular Relief Society program. In accordance with recommendations of the First Presidency, whose counsel President Lyman profoundly respects and implicitly obeys, the program was greatly simplified and the recommended restrictions strictly observed. Moreover, her understanding of what is basic in the Society, her analytical mind and good judgment enabled her to meet these difficult problems and guide the Society through perilous and discouraging war years with outstanding success. In spite of the greatness of handicaps, high standards were maintained in regular Relief Society work, effective co-operation was given the Church Welfare Plan, a vast amount of war work was accomplished, and progressive action taken that will lighten the load of future leaders. Relief Society activities during the administration of Amy Brown Lyman reflect the genius of her leadership. Page 269 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1945 ALL of the contributions of Amy Brown Lyman to her Church and to society are too numerous and varied to even enumerate in the space here available. Her influence has been national and international; thousands have been the beneficiaries of her service. As a pioneer in the field of social-welfare work she is pre-eminent among her contemporaries. Her efforts to alleviate human suffering, to promote family solidarity, and to develop improved methods of helping people out of trouble have been consistent, continuous, intelligent, and successful. Her love for women has expressed itself in tireless efforts in their behalf. She has worked diligently to create better understanding of their needs and interests, and to secure improved opportunities and greater consideration for them in the fields of education, industry, and the professions. She has actively affiliated herself with the National and International Councils of Women, holding responsible positions and favorably identifying herself with great women leaders of this and foreign nations. Mrs. Lyman has been the friend of children, actively participating in securing legislation providing for better maternity and infancy care. She has co-operated in the establishment of milk depots, encouraged well-baby and health clinics, and promoted and fostered sound child-welfare programs and practices. She has been sympathetic toward the underprivileged and handicapped and has programmed intelligently for them. Instrumental in the establishment of the American Fork Training School, she served for twelve years as a member of its board of trustees. Amy Lyman has valued and advanced education and encouraged learning. She recognizes the power of education to help people appreciate life and adjust to it. She herself is a gifted teacher. She also has an avid interest in history and its careful and accurate preservation. As general secretary of Relief Society she collected, indexed, and preserved valuable records and prepared comprehensive record books for use in wards and stakes. She has also been instrumental in the collection and preservation of pictures and other materials of historical value to the Society. As a missionary, Sister Lyman has borne her testimony in many lands, taught the gospel she so dearly loves, and enriched many, many lives. She refers to her missionary labors as "a joy, a satisfaction, and an inspiration throughout." Fortunate are those who work with Amy Brown Lyman. She possesses rare administrative ability. She unselfishly magnifies her associates, inspiring them with confidence in themselves by readily recognizing their strengths and the value of their work, and by turning full credit and honor back to them. She loyally upholds those who she appoints, at the same tie aiding in their development and wisely guiding and directing their activities. As her successor in the general presidency of the Relief Society, I am grateful for the opportunities and training she has given me. I regard my association with her as among the richest experiences of my life. I admire her devotion to the gospel. I admire her devotion to the gospel. I appreciate the vision she has given me of Relief Society work. I love her for the charm of her personality, her sense of humor, her deep understanding of human nature, her loyalty to her friends and to the right, her courage, and her many personal kindnesses to me. I honor her for her true greatness of character. FROM UNNAMED MOUNTAINS Dott J. Sartori From unnamed mountains marred with violence You write "How are the hills of home this year?" A tendril groping for some permanence To twine beyond the loaded bandoleer Here are the counterparts of memory. The canyon, cleft within your exiled brain. The misted peaks, become reality. I troll the ageless certitudes again Down to you from a wind-washed eminence Where russet soil has settled on this tier Of rock. The evergreen still drives its lance Into the sky, a changeless cavalier. The butterflies thread woods along the stream. Woof of the forest and weft of your dream. Assurance of unaltered majesty In the long-lived profile of a precipice, I send, and faith no stricken earth nor tree Shall disillusion your returning eyes.... Upon the northern slope, the aspen stems Glow silver-green, pale as a luna moth; The fern is beaded lace between the hems And petticoats of cool and living cloth. This boulder sheltered daisies small as these The age, when under Pinta's listing spars, Mutinous eyes, from strange and fearful seas, Were lifted to the same familiar stars. On some dark retina, now dust, once lay Horizons I delineate today. Marcia Knowlton Howells First Counselor in the General Presidency, 1940-45 President Amy Brown Lyman MARCIA K. HOWELLS DAUGHTER of a Relief Society stake president and relative of one of the two elders who assisted the Prophet Joseph Smith at the organization meeting of the Relief Society, Marcia Knowlton Howells has, since her childhood days, been familiar with Relief Society work and activities, and she has always loved, appreciated, and honored this great woman's auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Her mother, Minerva Richards Knowlton, was a life-long member of the Society and served for many years with distinction as Relief Society Page 272 president of Davis Stake, which at that time covered the whole of Davis County. In addition to traveling about, supervising and directing the welfare, health, and civic activities in this progressive unit. Sister Knowlton planned and prepared the courses of study used in her wards. The General Board at that time did not provide, as it does today, a uniform course of study, and stakes were left to prepare their own work. Marcia, no doubt, remembers seeing her mother work long hours and far into the night over her outlines, after a hard day of household activities. Her grandfather's uncle. Dr. Willard Richards, accompanied Joseph Smith and John Taylor to that important meeting in Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 17, 1842, when the Relief Society was organized, and assisted by acting as temporary secretary until the organization was effected and Eliza R. Snow was appointed permanent secretary. His name is listed among the seven donors who, on that memorable occasion, made charity contributions and thus established the first charity fund of the Society. With this unusual Relief Society background, a rich heritage in itself for a Relief Society worker, with her long years of service in the organization, and with her exceptional ability, Sister Howells has been able to make outstanding contributions to MARCIA KNOWLTON HOWELLS 273 the Relief Society cause in both ward and stake as well as on the General Board. I first met Marcia Knowlton at the summer cottage of Sister Heber J. Grant at Brighton where we were both guests. I was immediately attracted to her because of her charming and interesting personality, her fine qualities of heart and mind, and her boundless energy and interest in life. And from that time on I have loved and admired her and have enjoyed association with her as a fellow worker in civic and Church activities. SISTER HOWELLS was called to the General Board of Relief Society on February 2, 1929, and on January 1, 1940 was appointed first counselor in the general presidency. As a Board member she has given generously of her time to important committee work, and has traveled extensively throughout the Church attending stake and mission conferences and conventions. Her work in the general presidency has been largely of an administrative nature. As manager of the temple and burial clothes department and general director of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, she has demonstrated unusual executive and managerial ability, carrying forward her labors in these connections with efficiency, diligence, and dispatch, and achieving, withal, phenomenal success. Directing the work of these two important departments, always a challenge, has been especially taxing the last few years because of the shortage of materials and merchandise and because of war restrictions; but Sister Howells has always regarded this assignment as a rare privilege which she has enjoyed. She appreciates the distinctive and important service and opportunity these projects provide or offer to the people of the Church. As a member of the general Church Welfare committee, with special assignment to the clothing committee, and as work director on the General Board, Sister Howells has given time and attention to the clothing and sewing plans of the Church Welfare program, and to the sewing activities which are carried on in the regular work meetings of the Society. She has also assisted with the preparation of that portion of the General Welfare budget which has to do with the clothing program. Sister Howells has represented the General Board in many community activities, notably those which have had to do with health and welfare work. She was state chairman of the May Day Child Health Day in 1939. She is at present a valued member of the executive committee of the board of directors of the Utah Tuberculosis Association. She recently helped to direct the establishment of the splendid library of which the U. S. O. Of Salt Lake City has been so proud. In 1939, she attended the National Conference of Social Workers at San Francisco, following which she attended a social service institute at the University of California at Berkeley. In 1941 in company with Sister Donna D. Sorensen, she represented the Society at the biennial meeting of the National Council of Women. Sister Howells has been a wise, safe, and helpful counselor. Blessed with intelligence, broad experience, and sound judgment, and fortified with a burning testimony of the gospel and with an understanding of the responsibilities and obligations resting upon those who serve in a Church capacity, she has been able to recognize the relative importance and value of the many questions and problems presented for consideration and action, and to help to make wise, reasonable, and safe decisions. She is an able presiding officer and a gifted and fluent public speaker, with an excellent vocabulary. She gave promise of these fine qualities of leadership when, as a young woman, she served as president of her class at the L.D.S. high school, and as vice-president of the student body of that institution; also later during her four-year period of teaching.
She was educated in the public schools of Farmington, at the L.D.S. high school and University of Utah, preparing herself for the teaching profession at the latter institution. In 1910, she was married to Dr. Thomas J. Howells, a leading physician of the State, and an able and progressive specialist in the field of public health. He was for many years the Salt Lake City health commissioner, in which position he gave excellent service, and is at present a member of the State Board of Health.
Sister Howells is a generous, devoted, and unselfish friend. She is never happier than when doing something for others. When her friends are in trouble she is among the first to visit and comfort them. I count it as one of the distinctive privileges of my life to associate with and share work with Marcia Knowlton Howells. MEADOW LARK Grace M. Candland Returning friend of early spring, I hear Your call from low, green marsh and leafing tree, A lilting song of joyous melody Divinely sweet to each attentive ear. And then my heart grows light, I seem to know That His kind care, perhaps, had thought of me. And of my need of just such ecstacy When clouds obscured the way that I should go. May I, like you, blithe messenger, renew In some despairing life the will to see That lowly things send forth incessantly A song of life that thrills one through and through. Dear meadowlark, your floating notes of bliss Are one rare treat I would not care to miss. Vera White Pohlman General Secretary-Treasurer, 1940-45 President Belle S, Spafford FEW persons called to a position of trust and responsibility come to that position better qualified through native ability, training, and experience than did Vera White Pohlman when, in January 1940, she was called to serve as general secretary-treasurer of Relief Society. Thoroughly familiar with the history, rulings, and policies of the Society, acquainted with General Board office procedures, having a knowledge of the requirements of Reliei Society Magazine work, and intimate with the work of the Relief Society welfare department through twelve years of previous service in the general offices, her Relief Society background was rich. Prior to her appointment as general secretary-treasurer she had served with the Salt Lake County Department of Public Welfare, where she organized recording and filing systems and supervised the stenographic and clerical staff. She had also been employed as statistician with the State Emergency Relief Administration (F. E. R. A.) which was succeeded by the State Department of Public Welfare, where she served as director of its bureau of research and statistics, contributing much to the development and establishment of its policies and procedures, and to the training of personnel in this new function of state government in Utah. VERA W. POHLMAN All of this experience was invaluable in her Relief Society assignment which had so much to do with welfare work, important record keeping, the formulating and establishment of rulings, policies, and procedures, and the training of personnel. At the time of the appointment of Vera W. Pohlman as general secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Amy W. Evans wrote of her: "With her natural ability for details, her experience in welfare work, her fund of information regarding and thorough understanding of all phases of Relief Society work, her faithfulness to trust, and her dependability, Mrs. Pohlman will make a very efficient and valuable general secretary." Page 275 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1945 This prognostication has indeed been fulfilled. Her record of efficient service to the Society in this responsible position will ever stand a credit to her and a blessing to the Relief Society. Vera W. Pohlman has a brilliant and an analytical mind. She has a marvelous capacity not only to quickly and clearly see a problem or a situation, but to see all that is in any way related to it; she readily recognizes the influence of one situation upon another and can accurately foresee results of action. This rare capacity has made her of inestimable value in executive councils, in committee work, and as a member of the General Board, enabling her to arrive at sound conclusions and to guide others to do likewise. Mrs. Pohlman is a tireless, enduring worker. No amount of time or effort is considered, nor is any thought of saving herself allowed to enter into the performance of her duties. During the early years of her incumbency as general secretary-treasurer when, in addition to the regular duties incident to this position, she was reorganizing the offices and setting up new and more economical and efficient systems of management, she also carried a tremendous responsibility and did a vast amount of work in connection with Relief Society centennial plans and activities. During this period she worked long into the night, denying herself recreation and relaxation. Every minute was devoted to duty. THERE are few people who take greater pride in their work than does Vera Pohlman. Careful, painstaking, accurate effort accompanies all that she does from the smallest unimportant bit of work to the heaviest and most essential of tasks. Perfection is her standard of measurement. Vera fully appreciates the importance of the Relief Society cause. She loves the women of the Church and has a sincere desire to serve them. She continuously strives to make things clear, easy, and convenient for them, and she is never happier than when she feels she has been of service. She has met with thousands of Relief Society women in her visits to the stakes and missions of the Church. In 1943 she traveled continuously from early September until mid-December, meeting with Relief Society women representing 142 stakes and missions. The many expressions of appreciation for these visits bear evidence of the regard felt for her by Relief Society women because of her efficiency and knowledge of Relief Society work, and of their love and admiration for her because of her willingness to serve them. Special mention should here be made of a few of Mrs. Pohlman's special contributions to Relief Society. She has prepared new, simplified visiting teacher report books, and has revised ward and stake record books. The revised record books allow for the inclusion of valuable information, much of which was formerly not included, particularly with regard to the sewing program. This information permits a clear picture of the status of all phases of Relief Society work and materially aids the General Board to better plan and more effectively direct the Society. Mrs. Pohlman's personal ability to interpret figures and give them life and vitality is a rare gift.
In 1941, she prepared family record forms for use of Relief Society presidents in making a family analysis. These forms, endorsed by the Church Welfare Plan, are in use at the present time and are a guide and an asset to Relief Society presidents in analyzing the situation of families under care and in making sound recommendations to bishops regarding family needs.
Relief Society publications have benefited by the skills and knowledge of Vera W. Pohlman. She is a gifted writer, meticulous in the preparation of material for publication and is familiar with technical publishing details. She has continuously edited "Notes From the Field" department in The Relief Society Magazine. She has also made many other contributions to the content of the Magazine, and has effectively directed and supervised its business management. She assisted in the planning and preparation of Our Legacy Relief Society Anthology of Verse and also A Centenary of Relief Society published by the General Board in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the Society. In the latter, the section titled "Relief Society Work" which involved considerable research, was written by Mrs. Pohlman. She also aided in the preparation of other centennial souvenirs.
Relief Society will long benefit from official bulletins prepared by Mrs. Pohlman for the local Societies. They have contained instructions and rulings, and have clarified policies and procedures.
Her minutes of General Board meetings are a clear, detailed, accurate, well-written account of proceedings and General Board action. She views minutes as important historical records and she has taught secretaries of the local Societies to so regard them. One of Mrs. Pohlman's outstanding accomplishments has been to give these secretaries a vision of the importance of their work, and a training in the keeping of complete and precise records.
Vera W. Pohlman is sincerely appreciative of commendation but in no way solicits it. She is genuinely spiritual. She believes in Christian brotherhood and practices it. Her beneficences are many and always quietly performed. She is fair and just, a delightful traveling companion, loyal to her friends and devoted to her family. She is true to every trust and faithful to her Church. Her enduring values and abiding have enduring value. FOREVER BEAUTY Anna Prince Redd Imperishable, still In summer time I see. Each shining poem-tree In winter dawn. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, May 1 and May 15, 1885. "For the Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" What Can A Woman Do? No doubt many members of the Institute have wondered what vocation in life they should adopt by means of which they could earn their own livelihood, thus promoting self-reliance and the ability to do something sufficiently remunerative to enable them to fight the battle of life single-handed, if necessity required it, or circumstances compelled them to do so. As there is always a possibility that reverses may come to all of us is it not wisdom to give some consideration to this subject? It would be impossible to define just what course any member should follow to become entirely successful; in this matter, as in many others, we must be our own judges. One thing I can say with certainty, and that is this: In making up our minds we should not adopt any kind of labor in the slightest degree degrading. Whatever we try to do, let it be the labor we love; something we can do enthusiastically. People are rarely successful who work mechanically. Some persons have thought, and do so now, that the only labors a woman should perform must be of a domestic character; that to be a household drudge is all she is capable of being; but such persons must be told that at the present time there are hundreds of ladies in the civilized world making themselves famous as authors, physicians, surgeons, public speakers, painters, sculptors and lawyers. The advanced situation of the women of today grants to her all the privileges she may seek to enjoy; and if for any reason she does not choose to marry, there is no law to compel her to do so. This being the case she should know how to take care of herself, and earn her own living...  C. R. S.  A Pleasant Party. Editor Exponent: One of the most enjoyable affairs that ever happened in Deseret came off on the 2d of April in the form of a surprise party in honor of the Prest. Of our Society at the Relief Hall. Sister Eliza Whicker has been president of this society for seven years, and is a noble and well respected sister. The tables were spread with a sumptuous repast and the company seated when our beloved President arrived. After dinner the ceremonies were continued by presenting Sister Whicker with a neatly gotten up and appropriate address in a suitable frame, and several other presents by the sisters, followed by a programme, consisting of speeches, songs and recitations Sister Whicker addressed those present for a short time, thanking the sisters for their kindness; said she prized the address more than gold or silver. A vote of thanks was then returned to the committee for their exertions, and the entertainment closed with singing and prayer. Respectfully, Mary A. Bishop, Secretary. Deseret, Millard Co., April 8, 1885. The exhibition of Decorative Art work at Young Bro's on Main St., which commenced on May 12th, and has been continued since up, to the present, is something wonderful in the way of ornamentation, and requiring less natural ingenuity, it would seem, than embroidery done by hand. Everything, large or small, can be executed on the Domestic machine, on satin, silk, plush, canvas, etc., with chenile, arrasene, crewels, embroidery silk, tinsel, applique, mosaic and etching. Crowds of people were attracted every day to see the handsome and elaborate display of goods, and to watch those who were engaged in running the machines, doing all sorts of fancy ornamental work of different varieties and patterns with the people looking over in wonder and amazement. Surely this is something under the sun. Page 278 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DEAN Virginia Gildersleeve of Barnard College, sixty-seven-year-old American delegate to the United Nations Conference at San Francisco, holds the degrees of Philosophy of Literature, and, from three universities. Doctor of Laws. She has long been a close student of international affairs. She was present at the dinner at which President Wilson enunciated his Fourteen Points. She was active in the Commission to Study the Organization of the Peace, as also in the Association to Aid Scientific Research by Women, and in the American Committee on International Intellectual Co-operation. PARIS expects to lead the world again in fashions. Before all the Germans were driven out of France, forty style salons in the capital were presenting fashion shows. Women came to them on bicycles and shivered in the unheated rooms. THE First White House Conference on Rural Education has been held at the instance of Charl O. Williams, competent woman director of the Field Service of National Education Association. Fifty-two per cent of the Nation's teachers are rural. Their average salary is $967 a year. Per capita, Washington charwomen receive more than do 44,000 teachers. AFTER doing a magnificent job of flying   principally ferrying army aircraft  the WASPS (Women Airforce Service Pilots) have been disbanded. Though their work was one of the most dangerous kinds and required highly skilled women, they were never given military status as were other women's military organizations. SOMETHING Is Lost" a poem by Utah's own Christie Lund Coles, has been chosen by William Rose Benet for publication in The Saturday Review of Literature, a magazine which finds its way to all literary editors and writers. IRENE CURIE received, in 1935, jointly with her husband, Frederic Joliot, a Nobel prize in chemistry. For a time the Germans confiscated their Paris laboratories containing the gram of radium purchased for Madame Curie at the price of $100,000 by women of the United States. The laboratories were later returned. PEARL BUCK'S collection of short tales. The First Wife; and Other Stories gives a deep insight into Chinese life. IN America, 900,000 copies of young Betty Smith's A Tree Grows In Brooklyn have been sold. Page 279 

VOL. 32 MAY 1945 NO. 5 Relief Society Achievements 1944-45 THE month of May brings to a close the Relief Society educational season. In spite of curtailments and handicaps due to the war, the 1944-45 season has been a successful one marked by unusual development for Relief Society women and great accomplishment for the Society. With few exceptions, high standards have been maintained in all phases of the work, and Relief Society workers may justifiably view this past season with satisfaction and pride. The General Board sincerely appreciates the efforts of Relief Society officers and class leaders as well as the strength of Relief Society membership. It commends each one for her devotion to the Society, for the time, energy, and ability she has given to the work, and for the part she has played in the growth and advancement of Relief Society. It recognizes the support Relief Society women have given to the war programs sponsored by the Society, and the service they have rendered in their respective communities. The elements which make any organization successful are good beginnings or a sound foundation, a purposeful and worthy program, a capable leadership, and a devoted membership. Relief Society has all of these. It was organized by the Prophet "under the Priesthood after Page 280 the pattern of the Priesthood." No more worthy objectives could animate any organization; namely, to develop its members spiritually and intellectually, and "to manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality." For more than one hundred years the leadership of Relief Society, including the general, stake, mission, and local leaders, under the direction of the Priesthood has been sincere, energetic, capable and above average; and no organization could boast of a more devoted membership? women who are bound together by the ties of the gospel and who value their organization as an auxiliary of the Church and as a medium through which women may attain full self-realization and render satisfying service. To be a part of such an organization is a blessing and a privilege. True, in the process of performing our part, those of us who have contributed to the onward march of the Society during the past season may have met with discouragements and with obstacles which have had to be surmounted under difficulties, but the surmounting of these, rather than retarding us, has actually developed and strengthened us. In total, the benefits that have accrued from efforts put forth should leave Relief Society women satisfied and happy at the end of this educational season. BSS. Howard S. McDonald Appointed President of B.Y.U. THE First Presidency announced on Wednesday, March 14, 1945, following a meeting of the board of trustees of the Brigham Young University, the appointment of Howard S. McDonald as the new president of the Brigham Young University to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of Dr. Franklin S. Harris who resigned to become president of the Utah State Agricultural College at Logan. Mr. McDonald has served as superintendent of schools in Salt Lake City since July 1 of last year. In that short period of time he has made an outstanding record of achievement in this position. Previous to that appointment he was deputy superintendent of San Francisco schools.
President McDonald is a devoted member of the Church. He was a missionary in the Eastern States, a stake M.I.A. and Sunday School officer in both the Cache and San Francisco Stakes, and served as counselor in the San Francisco Stake for five years before becoming president of that stake. His wife is the former Ella Gibbs of Brigham City. They have two daughters.
The General Board of Relief Society extends its congratulations both to President McDonald and also to the Brigham Young University on his appointment.
Relief Society members appreciate the opportunity of sending their sons and daughters to a college where not only courses in higher education are offered but, in addition, a training and association are provided which are not found elsewhere and which may prove a potent force in the lives of their children in strengthening and increasing their testimonies of the gospel.
?M.C.S.
 ERRATUM MARY SMITH ELLSWORTH NOT RELEASED An error was made in a statement in The Relief Society Magazine, March 1945, page 185, wherein it stated "Mary Smith Ellsworth, recently released president of Relief Societies of the Northern California Mission..." It is deeply regretted that this mistake was made and apologies are extended to Sister Ellsworth for any embarrassment which this misstatement may have caused her. Sister Ellsworth is continuing her splendid work as the president of the Relief Societies of the Northern California Mission, He's Coming Home, Let's Spruce Up! The Honorable Earl J. Glade Mayor of Salt Lake City Prepared at the Request of the Church Beautification Committee WITH 30,000 of Salt Lake City's sons and daughters scattered to the far reaches of the wide, wide world, and sacrificing their comforts of home and their associations with loved ones, and sometimes giving their very lives, it is indeed difficult for us on the home front to focus our thinking on the centennial celebration for 1947. A grateful Utah capital city is earnestly praying that, surely by then, this crushing, devastating war will be over, and our own brave boys and girls will be right here again in the old home town. But ours must be an alert home town! It must be not only on its toes; Salt Lake City must be on its tip-toes! If the 173,218 Salt Lakers will all just catch the spirit of homecoming, it will not be such a Gargantuan job to make a brilliant centennial showing. Here's How: Every home owner should take a 1945 spring inventory of "dress-up musts" and give them the works! New parking to be seeded; new concrete walks to be laid; a new roof for the home; two coats of fresh paint all around. Aged and decaying trees should come down. Alleys should be cleaned. During 1945 and 1946, neighborhood should vie Page 282 with neighborhood in this great home-coming dress-up! We shall be doing it for our own ?the best youngsters in the world! What we say for Salt Lake City, of course, goes also for every town in the State. The proposed 1947 centennial might well catch the spirit oi a great homecoming celebration/ Just as the pioneers in 1847 found their haven in Salt Lake valley, so, too, will our own young men and young women in the armed services be grateful?yes, unspeakably glad to be home. Business and Industry on the Job, Too! Just as each home must step out and dress up, so, too, must business and industry?new store front, new display windows, new interiors, new and finer signs. Down with shacks and dumps! Out with rubbish and junk! City, county, and State administrations must tie in with each other in selling their respective communities as being good places in which to locate new industries. Surely, by 1947, there will be some determinations regarding Geneva Steel which, if good fortune breaks just right, may prove the basis of an entire new economy for the Inter-mountain Empire. The newly electrified Northwest of Seattle and Portland will want Utah steel for their rapidly growing manufacturing industries, which will also undoubtedly help largely to supply a new China and a new Russia, as well as the great new Westl Salt Lake City Also to the Front! HE'S COMING HOME, LET'S SPRUCE UP! 283 The city corporation must also bend every effort to meet this call for a home-coming spruce-up. To the very utmost of our finances must our highways be put in shape. The incumbent administration is devoting its energies to getting the city out of debt and at the same time carrying on municipal improvements every way in its power. This is a Herculean task! At this time, new, large feeder water mains are being laid to take care of the homes on the higher east and north bench elevations. Salt Lake City parks are being put in the finest shape in their history. The mile track in Liberty Park, for instance, is being paved this year. And an ambitious paving program, together with extensive improvements, is also proceeding in the City Cemetery. Salt Lake City seriously needs an auditorium of ample capacity. Such a structure would provide the locale and facilities for many new community achievements. The easy way to finance this vital need would be to go in debt for it, by bonding. We are hopeful of being able to find another way, for borrowing would just add to our financial slavery. Our present bond retirement plan is a courageous one, and if strictly adhered to, will get our city reasonably out of debt in a few years. Utah's capital city must do its share to prepare for the great centennial home-coming. By getting the utmost out of every dollar expended, great achievement in city beautification can be wrought. Possibly, pending developments in municipal financing on which we are earnestly working, will help us also to meet the perennial community stumper: "Well, Mayor, what are we going to use for money?" Maybe, one of these days, we'll surprise the man who throws that question at us, by having an answer ready that will be an answer. Let's just see! All-Year Care of the Rose Beds Hazel D. Moyle "A rose is a rose is a rose is a rose? says that woman poet, Gertrude Stein, meaning, no doubt, that to say it is a rose is enough, for does not all mankind acknowledge the rose as the acme of perfection, the queen of all flowers! The back-yard flower gardener might, however, be inclined to add a more practical word or two to this poetic roundelay. Well do we know that roses do not grow in such obliging and supreme beauty unless we follow a few rules and regulations. We may purchase the finest and newest modern rose bush, guaranteed to be bigger and better than any other ever seen, but if we do not give that plant a little regular care, its blooms may prove to be disappointing. Roses do demand certain attentions, but few other flowers give such generous returns for the little they do demand. The plants often live and flower abundantly each year for a lifetime, requiring no replanting, resetting or dividing. The modern hybrid tea rose, which is the type now planted so universally in our gardens, blooms not once a year, but it often sends out two, three, and even four crops of flowers in a single season. Fall roses rival those of June in our Utah gardens, some rose lovers actually claiming that they excel the earlier crops. With the cooler weather, their colors are even richer and more brilliant than during the warm June days. Page 284 The attentions that roses demand are simple, the important point is, they must be given regularly. First of all comes the job of uncovering the plants in early spring (that is, if you live in a cold section where they need winter protection). Begin loosening the coverings as soon as the hard freezing is over, but do not actually remove it on the first warm day. Gradually uncover so that the tender wood which has been covered all winter can become accustomed to air and cooler temperatures. Likewise, do not cut the long old wood back until the buds begin to swell. Go slowly, even though you are impatient to begin work, because of late cold snaps of weather. But do not put off pruning until the top buds are actually growing actively, for this will take much of the stored-up strength of the plant which will then be lost as the plants are cut back. Consider all these conditions well, then use your best judgment as to the best time to begin. In pruning the hybrid tea roses, cut out all the weak and crooked branches at their base, preserving only the heavy strong canes. Cut out also any that grow toward the center and interfere with sun and air. Then shorten those you have selected to remain from eight to twelve inches. Sometimes winter has already done this and we have no choice but to cut away the dead wood down to the remaining plump buds. In colder sections the entire top growth may have been killed, but be comforted and cut away the dead wood even so, for fresh new growth will soon spring from the roots and you will still reap roses come year. A later, but perhaps an even better crop.
CLIMBING roses need little pruning in early spring except the cutting away of dead wood ... and be warned that it is often difficult to detect just how much is actually dead. Leave your climbers strictly alone until growth actually begins so that you can be spared the sad experience of finding that you have removed branches that would otherwise be sporting a crop of lovely roses when June comes.
The best time to trim the climbers is just after they have bloomed. Such varieties as "American Pillar" and "American Beauty Climber" should have the old canes that have just bloomed cut away at the base to make room for the vigorous new shoots that will be found springing up from the root. These old canes of this type of climber do not bloom again and merely encumber the plant with dead wood. Get them out of the way as soon as possible after they have flowered. Such strong, large-flowered climbers as "Silver Moon" and "Dr. Van Fleet" need only the removal of the oldest wood occasionally after they have become established, to prevent the plant from spreading and also to keep it vital and alive. If left too long without this attention, it becomes almost impossible to remove old dead branches that will gradually choke it to death. These varieties need restraining as they mature (after two or three years' growth).
A thorough cultivation of the soil of the rose bed is of the greatest importance as soon as it is workable in spring, and this will bring to light many pests that have buried themselves during the winter. Many claim that this is the best defense against the rose beetle, most devastating of all rose pests. Cultivate and stir right up to the base of each plant and stir in any mulch of manure that you may have been able to apply over the winter.
And now we come to that subject of regular care which roses demand throughout the entire summer: cultivation, watering, and spraying. Of these three, cultivating comes first. We must keep the soil from getting hard and baked and firm, for the plants must have air, food, and moisture. Water will not penetrate unless the surface is kept loose and open, and our plants will then sulk and produce poor, slimy blooms. By beginning early and cultivating regularly the day following each watering, when the soil will again have sufficient aeration, this task is made easy, and it will at the same time prevent all weeds from growing.
Use a long-handled, three-pronged cultivator, or any other convenient small tool that will suit your taste, but wield it often and regularly so that your soil will remain loose and open. A mulch of either old, well-rotted manure or of peat moss, or even of lawn clippings can be a great help in keeping the soil from baking, and this will also keep the ground cool and prevent weeds and conserve moisture. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1945 If we are fortunate enough to be able to put a two-inch layer of manure, then this will also act as a mild and steady feeding, as well as making an excellent mulch. Roses need rich fare, and they especially thrive on manure. Chemical fertilizers can be applied, too, if the manure is not easily procured, but these must be used strictly according to directions of the brand you select. In using this type of fertilizer, first loosen the top soil, then scatter the fertilizer in a circle about each plant, then apply a deep watering immediately. Such an application can be applied in the spring, and repeated two weeks after the first crop of bloom is over. Rose plants need plenty of moisture, although water should be applied by soaking deeply instead of sprinkling. Remove the nozzle from the hose and allow to run until the ground is well saturated. Then leave the beds until they begin to dry out before applying more moisture. Such a watering will last for a week's time if it is followed by a cultivation the following day. Pest control is also a regular requirement. The best control is to apply one of the all-purpose sprays available at all nursery stores, beginning with an early application as soon as the leaves have begun to open well, and continuing at two-week intervals during the growing season. By sucha program, one can prevent the many ills and pernicious pests from getting started. Remember that no matter what chemical spray or dust you use, it must be applied from underneath so that it reaches the underside of the leaves as well as the upper parts, for it is there that most of the creatures hide out. And the entire plant must be covered to catch any of the chewing insects no matter where they attack. Should your plants show signs of mildew?our most common plant disease, which manifests itself in a grayish, powder-like substance coating the leaves, use Massey dust, also secured at the nursery store, and if this is not procurable, apply dusting sulphur with a dust gun, coating the entire plant and repeating the application until the trouble disappears. There is one pest for which we have as yet found no cure. The villainous rose beetle appears in early June, just as your most lovely roses are coming into full flower, and it thrusts its terrible, long proboscis or beak into the very heart of the flower, despoiling and completely ruining its exquisite perfection. You must hand pick this creature if you would be free from its devastation. Arm yourself with a small pail of water and a little kerosene, then go forth to battle. Shake or flip each black, small bug (you will find them sitting stupidly among your treasures), into the water where it will drown. Its only redeeming feature is that the rose bug does not remain long, but eventually disappears, digging itself into the ground to lay its eggs for another generation of trouble for the next year. The early cultivation of the soil which we advised above will bring to light and destroy these new generations of this pest Active cultivation and feeding of the rose plants should stop after mid-August so that the wood may ripen and harden to withstand winter. New, soft growth will not withstand hard freezing. Winter pro-(Concluded on page 320) Ten Miles to Calico Martha Robeson Wlight PART II THE next morning none of the neighbors showed signs of making a midweek trip to Og-den. The rutted road past the dugout remained empty. At breakfast, her father squinted quizzically at Tilda. 'Figgered how you're goin' to get your wheat to town?" *Tt*s a problem/ she admitted. "But I got to?today." "A squaw would drag it on poles ?a travois." Tilda stared at her father. A shiver of delight rippled over her? not just because his suggestion was practical, but because of what it signified. First he had offered the twine. Now he'd got the answer to her transportation problem. Then her face fell. "I don't know how you make a travois." "I'll show you after breakfast." And as soon as he finished eating, he brought the axe. "We'll fix your drag now, Tildy." While he selected and cut the right size willows, she yanked and slashed off wild grapevines to serve as ropes. When the travois was finished, it had a lashed platform for the wheat and a pair of shafts for Tilda. She cleaned herself up, braided her hair, and put on the hat her mother had woven for her from pond rushes. Ma brought a lunch?two pieces of cornbread and a cucumber?wrapped in a piece of flour sack. Pa carried out the wheat and placed it on the travois platform. Tilda laid her lunch beside the sack. She was dressed in her Sunday homespun, and wore her shoes. "Take your flipper," ma directed. "You might meet something." Tilda laughed, but she stowed the slingshot and a handful of pebbles in her skirt pocket. Pulling the drag along the road, Tilda pretended she was an Indian girl on the way to greet her warrior lover. She threw her hat on the wheat and hung her long braids over her breasts. With her belt and a turkey feather she found, she made an Indian headband. She had just donned it when old Bishop Robinson rode i|p behind her. "Mornin', Gal," he said heartily. He had twinkling eyes. "Good morning. Bishop Robinson." He cocked his gray head to one side. "Let's see. Whose gal you be? I can't place all these children growing up so fast." "I'm Mathilda Dawson." "To be sure. Say, what you got there, Sister Tildy?" "A bushel of wheat I gleaned. I'm taking it to town." "It's a right hot day for dragging. To save you the trip to Ogden I'll give you two dollars for your wheat." Tilda remembered that though the bishop was a righteous worker for the Lord, he had the reputation of being a shrewd trader. Page 287 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1945 "What say, Tildy?" he prompted. "Whose field did you glean?" "Brother Burnett's/' "He grows good wheat. Tell you, I'll make it three dollars." She didn't want to offend Frank's grandfather. She must refuse politely. "Thank you, Bishop, but I got to take this to town." "Why's that?" The old man shifted his weight in the saddle. "I got to buy me some calico dress goods." His wise eyes crinkled at the corners. "Couldn't you buy the goods with the money? Easier than drag-gin' your sack so far." "Calico's dear. Three dollars ain't enough." Would he be mad? He chuckled, "That's the best I can offer. Well?" She shook her head. "Maybe you'll get more." He clucked to his horse. "Giddap." The dust settled on Tilda. She plodded ahead. The heat grew intense and she stopped briefly to remove her shoes. It felt more comfortable to walk barefoot. Did squaws get this tired? After what seemed a very long time, she came to the river. She would have to carry the wheat across. Tilda caught up her skirts and fastened them around her waist with her belt. She pierced the feather through one of her braids. She unloaded the sack on a ledge jutting out from the river bank. Bending her shoulders, she hauled the heavy load onto her back, then walked cautiously into the shallow stream. The rocks on the bottom were slick. Minnows brushed against her legs. It was hard to keep her balance, but she reached the opposite bank and slid the sack to the ground. Tilda drew a long breath. She recrossed the river, got the travois and her shoes and hat, and brought them over, too. Now she'd eat her lunch. "What's that you're so scared o' wettin', little Injun?" A squat, red-headed man stepped from behind a tree. A tall, gray-haired man and a half-breed joined him. They had rifles. Tilda faced them defiantly, though she quaked inside. "I'm no Indian," she said with dignity. "This is wheat. I see you're strangers. If you are on your way to California, you're headed in the wrong direction. You go through Salt Lake." "We done found that out," mumbled the gray-haired man. "Boys, we can use that wheat, eh?" 'An' take a load off the gal's shoulders," laughed Redhead. "It's my wheat!" Tilda crouched desperately over the sack. "You get more," said the half-breed in threatening gutterals. The tall stranger roughly shoved the girl aside and slung the sack over his shoulder. "Run back home or I'll smack you." Lowering her head like a goat, Tilda butted him. He stumbled and the wheat slid to the ground. But Redhead grabbed her arms. "You big bullies!" she sobbed, and kicked her captor's shins. "Ain't you a hellion though!" There was admiration in his tone. "Now, Sis, skedaddle. Else I'll turn you over my knee and paddle you." A hot flood of mixed humiliation and rage engulfed Tilda. They went into the bushes with her wheat. TEN MILES TO CALICO 289 Two weeks of hard work! The tall man spoke to horses, then she heard wagon wheels creak. Tilda gulped her last sob. She wouldn't let them do it! She felt in her pocket for her flipper and pebbles. In a jiffy she put on her shoes. Those men didn't know this country. If she could make them think Indians were after them, they'd whip up their horses and maybe the jolting wagon would bounce the sack overboard. Keeping in the underbrush beside the rutted road, Tilda hurried after them as silently as she could run. She soon caught up to the walking team. Through the bushes she saw a covered wagon. The tall man drove. His companions rode saddle horses, in front and behind. She placed a stone in her slingshot, aimed carefully, and let go. "Damned hornet!" cursed the driver. Blood dripped from his cheek. "No, that warn't a hornet, what was it?" Tilda smiled grimly. In quick succession she fired her second and third shots. The half-breed and Redhead swore in pain. "That must've been a arrow creased me!" howled the driver. The girl started yelling, in imitation of Indian war whoops. She took deep breaths, opened her mouth wide and patted her palm against it. Tilda shot more jagged pebbles, and dodged about in the bushes. She made a great commotion, but stayed hidden. Redhead wheeled his mount beside the driver and shouted, "To save our scalps we gotta leave the wagon! Climb on behind me!" The half-breed was already in panic-stricken flight. The tall man and Redhead fled after him into. The underbrush. This was much more than Tilda had hoped. She ran to the wagon, scrambled to the seat, and started the horses at a brisk trot toward town. She'd deliver her wheat in style. In half an hour she backed up before Horrock's elevated unloading platform. As Tilda wrapped the lines around the brake handle, Frank Robinson came out of the store. Her successful coup against the three thieves made her feel like swaggering a little. She waved casual recognition to Frank so he'd know that he didn't matter any more. "Hello!" she called. He stood staring. Tilda climbed over the seat into the bed of the wagon and tugged her sack of wheat to the low tailgate. She poised there to step off onto the platform. The team moved and she lost her balance. Girl and wheat tumbled to the ground together, landing in thick dust. Her skirts were partly over her head. The old sack burst, and she was half buried in grain. The fall didn't hurt Tilda. Her first thought was of how she must look. She sat up and frantically yanked down her petticoats. She was so mad that she began to bawIl like a roped calf. Several men had seen her mishap. Frank jumped off the store platform and rushed to help her. Tilda was spitting dust and wheat. They were in her mouth and ears and hair, and inside her homespun waist. Her angry tears made mud smears on her cheeks. Since evidently only her feelings were hurt, the picture was too much for Frank and the other onlookers. They all laughed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1945 Tilda stopped crying and glared around. "There's nothing funny, about it! That was nice, clean wheat. Now look at it!" Frank helped her to her feet and broke off his laugh. "No, it wasn't funny, Sister Tilda." With a white handkerchief he awkwardly tried to brush the dust from her face. "Thanks," she said in her stiffest tone. She jerked away. Some grains under her clothes were scratching her. She couldn't get them out with men around. "Mr. Horrocks won't take dirty wheat." I?ll borrow a sieve from him," Frank offered. "The dust'll blow off. I'll get a new sack." He leaped to the platform. Frank Robinson was kind, but he had laughed at her. And again he had seen her looking like all-get-out. So far as he was concerned it was no use to try to make herself appear pretty with a new dress. He'd never forget the sight she had been in Burnett's field, and now here sprawled on the street with her skirts over her head. Served her right for being so vain. Still, she had set out to get that calico, and she would?not to attract Frank, but to keep from being like ma. He came back with a shovel and sieve and a sack. The other men drifted down the street. Tilda and Frank didn't talk while they sieved her wheat and filled the new sack. The breeze blew away the dust. Frank carried the sack into the store. "Mr. Horrocks," he announced, "here is Mathilda Dawson with some wheat." The storekeeper peered over his spectacles at Tilda. "I don't want wheat unless it's prime good. No smut." "I gleaned it from Brother Burnett's field," she said quickly. "Well, I'll take a look." Mr. Horrocks ran the full length of his arm into the sack and pulled up a fistful of kernels. He examined them critically while her heart filled her mouth. "Yes, it's good wheat. Frank, take it back to the bin." Tilda breathed again. "How much will you give me?" "I'm payin' three dollars a bushel to-day." "Why!" she exploded. "Bishop Robinson offered me three. Reckon he'd have taken it to Salt Lake and sold it there for ten dollars." Horrocks looked at her shrewdly. "Can't compete with Salt Lake prices. I admit it's good wheat, but five is the best I'll do." "All right!" she accepted. "I mean five dollars in trade," the storekeeper amended. "All right," Tilda repeated. "And cash money if there's change." "Yes. What do you want. Sister Tilda?" "Calico for a dress. Green. Maybe white vines or leaves in it." "I've got some nice green. Only six bits a yard." The merchant selected a bolt of cloth. The lovely pattern and colors thrilled Tilda. This was worth all her hard work. She fingered the calico and her eyes lifted ecstatically. Then the joy in them died. On the shelf above Mr. Horrock's head stood a silver caster set. Exactly like ma's picture! Tilda couldn't speak. She just stared and pointed. "That?" The storekeeper reached TEN MILES TO CALICO 291 up for the caster. He set it before the girl. "Pretty, ain't it? Took that in trade for some grub. Feller toted it all the way from back East.' 'H?How much d'you want for it?" she forced herself to ask. Again Horrocks peered at her shrewdly. "Well, that's real silver and worth more, but you can have it for five dollars. I don't have much call for such knickknacks." Tilda looked from the silver table-piece to the calico. She must not get like her mother. But if ma had this real caster set! Would it make her feel not so old? "Got something to wrap it in so I won't scratch it carrying it home?" The words were dead sounds that made hollow echoes of the longings she had killed. "Here's the flannel the set was wrapped in," said the merchant. Frank Robinson returned from the rear of the store. "She had 'most half a peck over a bushel, Mr. Horrocks." "You have six bits change coming. Sister Tilda," the storekeeper calculated. "I'll go get it from the money drawer." Slumped in misery, she gazed wistfully at the calico. Frank picked up the bolt. He flipped it round and round to show a length of the goods, then draped the cloth over her shoulder and smoothed it down to hang straight. It covered most of the front of her ugly dress. His rough fingers caught on her braids. "With your yellow hair?," he paused, looking into her eyes. "The green makes you like?like a daffy-dil. Like Spring." Numbly Tilda stared down at herself. At Frank's hand on her shoulder. At Frank. It was like a husband helping put a dress on his wife. His face turned brick red. He licked his lips. "I was terrible forward." His words stumbled. "I meant you'll be so beautiful in it." He wheeled and hurried out of the store. Tilda knew then the uttermost depths of wretchedness. Frank would never see her look like Spring. She'd always be in the dead blacks and rusty browns of a winter tree. Completely lifeless looking. For only a moment she had been transformed to beauty in his sight. Now she was ugly again. Mr. Horrocks brought her change. Her fingers closed listlessly over the two silver coins. She watched him wrap up the caster. She took the bundle in her arms. "I could use more fine wheat like you brought," he remarked. Tilda burst through her numbness as if she had snapped rope bonds. Why, she hadn't half gleaned Brother Burnett's field! She could get another bushel of wheat as easily as the first! "Here!" Tilda thrust the coins into the storekeeper's hand. "I'll be back with just as good a sackful. Take this money as part payment for six yards of that calico. The green! Be sure to save it for me. Promise!" she demanded. He chuckled, "It's a bargain. Sister Tilda." "T'll bring the wheat in two weeks," she said. Tilda wanted to dance on the road home, but she had to be careful of the caster set. How ma's eyes would pop! Pa's, too. Tilda did a few cautious hop-skips, and sang, (Concluded on page 319) The Magazine Honor Roll for 1944 Vera W. Pohlman, Former General Secretary-Treasurer. THE momentum of the 1943 Magazine subscription campaign, when 13,000 new subscriptions were added, carried over into 1944, resulting in a further increase of more than 4,300 additional subscriptions. By the end of the year the subscription list had reached a new high figure of 71,200, an increase over the 66,790 subscriptions reported at the end of 1943 of 4,210 or six per cent.
More Than 1000 Names On Honor Roll
This year we are not reproducing the pictograph which for the two previous years were published (August 1943 and June 1944) to portray for each stake and mission the rate of Magazine subscriptions in relation to Relief Society members. As usual, however, we are recognizing in the accompanying honor roll all stakes, missions, wards, and branches, whose subscription rates in relation to number of Relief Society members equal or exceed 75 per cent. The 1944 honor roll contains more names than ever before?1020, an increase of 22 per cent over the 847 in 1943 and of 159 per cent over the 293 in 1942. Here are the comparative figures for 1943 and 1944:
1943 1944 Increase No. Per cent
Local Relief Societies 776, 919, 143, 18. In Stakes 595, 674, 79, 13. In Missions 181, 245, 64, 35. Supervisory Organizations 71, 101, 30, 42. Stakes 57, 71, 14, 25. Missions 3, 6, 3, 50. Mission Districts 11, 24, 13, 118. Total on Honor Roll 847, 1020, 173, 20.
The honor roll is arranged in alphabetical order and the name of the Magazine representative appears opposite the name and record of each Relief Society listed. In those instances where no one is appointed as Magazine representative, the name of the president appears. Great credit is due the supervisory stake, mission district, and mission Magazine representatives, and all of the ward and branch Magazine representatives who have done the the ward and branch Magazine work of procuring subscriptions with the assistance and support of Relief Society officers and members. Page 292 THE MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1944 293 We express the appreciation of the General Board to these faithful Magazine representatives and to all who assisted them. As an expression of its appreciation, the General Board is again awarding a free, one-year Magazine subscription to all local representatives who procured subscriptions equal to 75 per cent of the ward or branch Relief Society enrollment as of the end of 1944, and to all stake, mission district, and mission Magazine representatives appearing on the honor roll. The Magazine honor roll is based on subscription reports submitted to the General Board. However, Lethbridge and Oahu Stakes, and the British, East Central (except North Carolina District which submitted a report), Hawaiian, South African, and Texas Missions (of the English-speaking missions) failed to submit subscription reports for 1944. Also, a few districts of some of the reporting missions failed to respond?3 in the California Mission, 3 in the Northern States, 1 in Northwestern States, and 1 in the Southern States. Reference to the annual Relief Society reports compiled by the secretaries indicated that some of these unreported stakes and missions had local Relief Societies with rates entitling them to a position on the honor roll and they were, therefore, included. However, none is included from the British Mission from which neither report had been received by press time. 100 Percenters We especially congratulate the following 12 stakes, 1 mission, and 6 mission districts with Magazine subscription rates of 100 per cent or more, 12 of them appearing for the first time in this highest-ranking group: North and South Illinois District 102 San Francisco Stake 101 Uintah Stake 101 An amazing number of local Relief Societies achieved rates of 100 per cent or more?432 or 47 per cent of the 919 on the honor roll. These 100 percenters constituted 45 per cent or 304 of the 674 award-winning wards in stakes, and 32 per cent or 128 of the 245 award-winning mission branches. Some mission and stake Relief Societies have had unusual opportunity to place the Magazine in the homes of investigators and other non-members, and this yearns report shows that many have been diligent in this respect, as well as in placing the Magazine in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1945 homes of Church members. Space limitations preclude special mention here of any but those with rates of 150 per cent or more, but all can easily be noted by reference to the honor roll. The 24 local Societies with exceptionally high rates are: Achievements oi Stakes Of the 57 stakes on the 1943 honor roll, all but 6 maintained this position. The loss of these 6 stakes (Lakeview, Mt. Graham, New York, South Sanpete, Star Valley, and Yellowstone) was more than off-set by 20 additional stakes which achieved honor-roll ratings. We extend congratulations to the 51 stakes which maintained their 1943 status and to the following 20 newly added stakes: Ben Lomond, Blackfoot, Bonneville, Chicago, Cottonwood, Denver, Emery, Liberty, Nampa, Oakland, Ogden, Park, St. Joseph, Salt Lake, San Bernardino, San Juan, Southern Arizona, Sugar House, Uintah, and Uvada Stakes. Many of these stakes nearly made the honor roll last year but in striving for honor roll position this year, several recorded considerable gains during 1944; for example, Uintah Stake which boosted its 1943 rate of 69 per cent to 101 per cent; Park Stake which rose from 74 to 103 per cent; Salt Lake from 65 to 88 per cent; Oakland from 66 to 86 per cent; Emery from 61 to 80 per cent; Sugar House from 56 to 75 per cent; Southern Arizona and San Bernardino both of which advanced from 71 to 89 per cent. Cottonwood Stake, also in this list, is mentioned in the "Notes From the Field" in this issue as having risen from a 1942 rate of 26 per cent?one of the lowest in the Church?to 90 per cent in 1944, a noteworthy accomplishment in a short period of time. Achievements of Missions All three of the missions which appeared on the 1943 honor roll-Australia, Western Canadian, and Western States?maintained their positions in 1944. The Australian Mission still leads the stakes and missions of the Church with a 1944 rate of 136 per cent. Three additional missions achieved the 1944 honor roll, not barely but with good rates?South African, 92 per cent; THE MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1944 295 Southern States, 88 per cent; Northern States, 82 per cent. The number of mission districts (comparable in function to stakes) appearing on the honor roll increased from 11 in 1943 to 24 in 1944. Four of these 11 districts (Bakersfield in the California Mission, North Indiana and North Michigan in the Northern States Mission, and Great Falls in the Northwestern States Mission) failed to maintain their honor-roll rating. The other 7 districts which maintained their honor-roll status are: South Coast in California Mission; Central Ohio, North and South Illinois, South Ohio, and Wisconsin, in Northern States Missions; and Central Florida and South Georgia in the Southern States Mission. The 17 mission districts appearing on the honor roll for the first time this year are: Santa Barbara, San Gorganio, and Mojave of the California Mission; Central Indiana, East Michigan and West Michigan of the Northern States Mission; Northern Montana of Northwestern States Mission; Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, South Carolina, South Florida, South Georgia, West Florida, and West South Carolina of the Southern States Mission, and South Louisiana of the Texas Mission. Subscriptions From Non-ranking Societies Also Appreciated In addition to the stakes, missions, and mission districts whose local Relief Societies attained rates sufficient to place the entire area on the honor roll, 63 stakes and 10 missions are represented not by a rating for the stake or mission as a whole, but by one or more of their local Relief Societies which attained honor-roll status. Accordingly, a total of 134 stakes (all but 14) and of 16 English-speaking missions (all but 2) are represented on the 1944 honor roll by one or more local Societies. It is regretted that a few (Beaver, Panguitch, South Ogden, and Moon Lake Stakes, and the Hawaiian Mission) which were so represented in 1943 by high-ranking local Societies are not represented by even one ward or branch this year. Nevertheless, we are mindful and appreciative of the thousands of subscriptions which have helped to swell the total subscription list but which were obtained by local Relief Societies whose individual rates did not entitle them to a place on the honor roll. It is hoped that the accomplishments of the year 1944 will encourage these Relief Societies to renew their efforts during 1945 and match the achievements of their sister Societies. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1945 
296
HONOR ROLL
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Alberta Stake Second, Clayton Stake Second, 85, 411, 117. Raymond, Hazel Naylor, 95, 120, 127. Cardston, Belle McBride, 85, 125, 117. Foremost, Ethel Carling, 81, 19, 23. Glenwood, Rhoda Jensen, 81, 13, 16. Woolford, Eva Atwood, 81, 12, 15.
Alberta Stake, Alberta Stake, 79, 466, 376. American Fork 2nd Ward, Blanche B. Chipman, 76, 194, 254. American Fork 1st, Vilate E. Adamson, 75, 118, 158. Highland, Inez Healey, 110, 38, 34. Lehi 1st, Bessie R. Evans, 110, 102, 132. Lehi 2nd, Ila Brown, 76, 102, 132.
Bear Lake Stake, Bear Lake Stake, 90, 427, 412. Fish Haven, Minnie Hawkes, 110, 30, 26. Liberty, Sadie Rich, 110, 26, 23. Montpelier Third, Alice Leonard, 110, 38, 33. Georgetown, LaRue Jones, 104, 25, 24. Bern, Elzada Johnson, 110, 21, 19. Ovid, Clara Olsen, 104, 24, 23. Bloomington, Rachel Dansie, 78, 35, 45. Boise River, Ester Lazenby, 78, 17, 22.
Boise Stake, Boise Stake, 95, 412, 412. Boise First, Pearl Slaughter, 110, 113, 104. Boise Second, Beulah Fisher, 104, 104, 100. Boise Fourth, Bess Perrell, 98, 56, 57. Boise Fifth, Ollie Malmtead, 98, 107, 109. Boise Ninth, Clara Jensen, 98, 108, 111.
Blackfoot Stake, Blackfoot Stake, 82, 876, 722. Blackfoot First, Ruth B. Funk, 84, 134, 134. Blackfoot Second, Grace Johnson, 76, 142, 184. Riverside, Blanch R. Overall, 76, 38, 38. Goshen, Grace Hanna, 76, 28, 38. Moreland, Mae Ipsen, 76, 35, 45. Firth, Geary Jones, 72, 38, 53.
Blaine Stake, Blaine Stake, 82, 218, 95. Emmett, Hannah Durfee, 110, 147, 135. Dietrich, Arilla Dunford, 110, 25, 23. Shoshone, Orpha Howell, 116, 42, 36. Richfield, Ethel Clark, 110, 29, 26. Glenns Ferry, 104, 15, 16. Kimberly, Lester Doane, 90, 19, 20. Hagerman, Laura Williams, 80, 15, 19. Richfield, 90, 30, 33.
Boise River Stake, Boise River Stake, 48, 438. Meridian, Maude Eldredge, 98, 42, 42. Meridian Second, Hazel Christensen, 110, 16, 15. Kuna, Pearl Daggett, 116, 19, 16. Eagle, Dorothy Price, 110, 13, 12. Kuna, Inez Wilm, 90, 15, 16.
Bountiful Second, Bountiful Second, 95, 47. Hillcrest, Dorothy Coburn, 110, 34. North Salt Lake, Pearl Smart, 104, 107. Sessions, Nola Johnson, 104, 107. Bountiful West, Clara Mameater, 98, 108. 

297
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Cache River Stake, Cedar River Stake, 108, 208, 196. Bear River Ward, Edna Garlund, 125, 36, 29. Smithfield, Gladys Davis, 116, 49, 42. Garland, Irene Garlund, 108, 32, 30. Cache, Gertrude Knudson, 95, 32.
Cache Valley Stake, Cache Valley Stake, 139, 109, 79. Greenville, Eleanor Merrill Homstrom, 125, 28, 22. Hyde Park, Rhoda J. Hunter, 104, 45, 44. Paradise, Mary R. Benson, 139, 28, 23. Wellsville, Lois Morgan, 76, 37, 49. Smiths, Ella Robison, 76, 30, 39. Cornish, Jeanie Jensen, 76, 27, 35. Nibley, Mrs. Sarah Nelson, 104, 23, 22. Richmond Ward, Mary Hardy Harrison, 108, 105, 97. Mt. Sterling, Evelyn Pugmire, 76, 83, 109.
Cassia Stake, Cassia Stake, 78, 561, 730. Burley First, Myrtle Duncan, 79, 78, 94. Malta, Winifred C. McWilliams, 75, 34, 45. Burley Third, Berle Tingey, 76, 36, 47. Rupert, Enid Rupert, 90, 64, 71. Heyburn, Vernice Searle, 87, 34, 39. Declo, Nancy Pugmire, 87.
Cache Stake, Cache Stake, 501, 782. Logan First, Stella Anderson, 110, 56, 51. Logan Fourth, Thirza J. Logan, 133, 85, 64. Hyrum, Lucy Olsen, 100, 73, 73. North Logan, Lucille Merrill, 110, 37, 34. Lewiston, Mrs. Viola Jackson, 110, 72, 66. Trenton, Mae Lundbook, 115, 20, 17. Clarkston, Ida J. Allen, 105, 65, 62. Smithfield, Eliza Perry, 90, 70, 78. Benson, Eva Taylor, 115, 107, 93. Amalga, Eva Jorgensen, 76, 37, 49.
Cedar River Stake, Cedar River Stake, 78, 212, 202. Afton, Alice Bingham, 112, 48, 43. Etna, Laura Ketchie, 118, 30, 25. Thayne, Mrs. M. Beckstead, 110, 30, 27. Auburn, Jennie Gilbert, 90, 32, 36. Bedford, Lettie Christensen, 80, 24, 30. Alpine, Zella Grover, 88, 28, 32.
Cache Stake, Cache Stake, 75, 762, 798. Logan Second, Harriet Jardine, 78, 102, 108. Mendon, Gladys L. Rose, 84, 49, 58. Wellsville, Harriet Prance, 87, 51, 59. Cornish, Lois Lundgren, 104, 18, 17. Millville, Martha Wilding, 87, 18, 18.
Box Elder Stake, Box Elder Stake, 57, 57, 57. Mantua Ward, Edna Van Orden, 110, 18, 18. Garland, Snow Tanner, 93, 115, 124. Brigham City First, LaRue Farnsworth, 92, 171, 186. Bear River, Lucile Harrison, 76, 66, 87. Tremonton, Emma C. Hansen, 76, 125, 165.
Bountiful Stake, Bountiful Stake, 83, 625, 748. Woods Cross, Irene Browning, 88, 128, 146. Bountiful First, Edith Tolman, 95, 137, 145. West Bountiful, Hannah Egan, 75, 113, 151. Bountiful Third, Mary Barker, 110, 100, 91.
Cache Stake, Cache Stake, 60, 80, 80. Lewiston Third, Agnes Chadwick, 58, 45, 78. Clarkston Second, Tresa Rigby, 58, 46, 79. Clarkston Third, Ruby Fuhriman, 48, 41, 86. Logan Eighth, Mae Merrill, 44, 47, 107.
Curlew Stake, Curlew Stake, 90, 90, 90. Holbrook, Annie Rasmussen, 102, 23, 23. North Cottonwood, Elsie Loncacron, 76, 37, 49.
Cottonwood Stake, Cottonwood Stake, 174, 174. East Park, May Park, 132, 132.
Columbia Stake, Columbia Stake, 76, 76. Portland, Bessie Rigby, 76, 57, 57. Salem, Mrs. Bertha Forgeron, 76, 125, 165. East Columb, Effie Barnes, 76, 76, 76. Heppner, Harriet Prance, 98, 81, 83.
Bountiful Stake, Bountiful Stake, 95, 646, 645. West Jordan, Hilda Robinson, 87, 128, 146. Bingham, Harriet Tew, 98, 35, 35. Murray Third, Elizabeth Egan, 75, 113, 151. Cannon Ward, Martha Wilding, 87.

298
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Duchesne Stake, Duchesne Stake, 76, 251, 328. Myton, Rhea D. Rasmussen, 81, 33, 40. Neola, Sarah Rasmussen, 81.
Desert Stake, Desert Stake, 90, 90. Delta Third, Elmina J. Pitcher, 104, 104. Delta Second, Mary A. Parmer, 99, 74, 75. Hinckley, Marie A. Pitcher, 96, 19, 20. Oasis, Myrtle Vincent, 107, 23, 22.
Davis Stake, Davis Stake, 95, 812, 848. Kaysville, Virginia C. Davis, 105, 93, 89. Farmington, Frances A. Parmer, 43, 102, 237. Layton, Mary Dunkley, 90, 106, 118. Clearfield, Helen B. Thomas, 90, 84, 93. Syracuse, Vilate Lewis, 86, 95, 111. Centerville, Edith Savage, 113, 30, 27.
East Jordan Stake, East Jordan Stake, 84, 842, 1006. Midvale Third, LeNora Nash, 87, 225, 258. Highland Stake, Highland Stake, 86, 86. Union, Sarah Thomas, 84.
Granite Stake, Granite Stake, 82, 520, 623. Granite Ward, Mrs. D. Wilson, 92, 86, 94. Murray, Clara Burningham, 76, 73, 96. Furgeson, 82, 82.
Emery Stake, Emery Stake, 95, 213, 222. Castle Dale, Mary E. Price, 95, 73, 77. Ferron, Ottilla Gay, 115, 54, 47. Huntington, Nellie Mitchell, 98, 47, 48. Castle Dale, Jean M. Johansen, 84, 31, 37. Emery, Alice Hagen, 111, 37, 33. Clawson, Ella Mae Harvey, 81, 18, 22. Sunnyside, Nellie Holt, 77, 11, 14.
Garfield Stake, Garfield Stake, 87, 87. Orderville, Otillia Wilkinson, 87, 95, 109. Panguitch, Effie Dalton, 84, 85, 101. Antimony, LaRue Hartman, 87, 92, 106. Kanab Ward, Vilate A. Judd, 76, 45, 59. Alton, Glenneyer, 79, 31, 39. Escalante, Edna Dalton, 75, 76, 101. Tropic, Ethel Willmore, 76, 79, 104.
Grantsville Stake, Grantsville Stake, 87, 87, 343. Tooele, Helen L. Clegg, 105, 105. Stockton, Ida Dalton, 84, 84. Grantsville Second, Lila Dalton, 113, 117, 104. Clover, Cora Palmer, 77, 43, 56. Erda, Mabel Butler, 80, 45, 56.
Grant Stake, Grant Stake, 98, 212, 215. Murray Ninth, Matilda B. Maule, 78, 73, 94. Burlington, Mrs. Kay Egan, 76, 47, 62. Nibley Park, Elaine Christner, 80.
Granite Stake, Granite Stake, 76, 76. Granite, Mrs. Bert Staker, 76, 58, 76. Nibley Park, Elaine Christner, 76, 100, 132.
Cottonwood Stake, Cottonwood Stake, 87, 47, 47. Midvale Third, Mrs. J. R. Egan, 90, 90. Murray Third, Hannah Taylor, 98, 172, 176. Murray Ward, Ethel Tew, 96, 113, 118. Cannon Ward, Elmina Pratt, 108, 119, 110. Murray Second, Mary D. Dalton, 80, 108, 135. Midvale First, Ruth Williams, 108, 132, 122.
Garfield Stake, Garfield Stake, 102, 102. Panguitch Third, Bernice E. Caruthers, 102, 102. Escalante Second, Margaret Liston, 104, 58, 56. Antimony, Laura Westover, 107, 138, 129. Tropic Second, Maria Wilcock, 110, 135, 123. Hatch, Edna M. Judd, 103, 119, 116. Bryce Canyon, Annie M. Hayward, 110, 103, 94. Mt. Carmel, Zelda J. Macfarlane, 110, 102, 93.
Hillcrest Stake, Hillcrest Stake, 76, 76. Murray Fifth, Leola W. Petersen, 76, 25, 33. Millcreek, Sarah W. Eliason, 76, 36, 47. Pleasant Grove, Eliza Bettilson, 76, 44, 58.
Hooper Stake, Hooper Stake, 90, 90. Roy Second, Myrtle Kershaw, 113, 47, 37. North Ogden Third, Lucille Richardson, 107, 40, 37. Plain City, Cora Randall, 80, 87, 109. Roy First, Emma D. Davis, 80, 82, 103. Harrisville Second, Esther Lee, 90, 84, 93. Kanesville, Ella J. Hansen, 90, 20, 22. Plain City, Ella Davis, 90, 18, 20. South Weber, Bertha Barker, 90, 32, 36.
299
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Garfield Stake, Garfield Stake, 6, 23, 38. Garfield, Ethel J. Boone, 100, 100.
Hyrum Stake, Hyrum Stake, 27, 271, 27. Avon, Leona J. Gilbert, 80, 171, 213. Clarkston, Jennie La Grant, 92, 18, 20. Paradise, Annie Harris, 80, 102, 128. Hyrum Ward, Alice Prewett, 102, 36, 35. East Hyrum, Mary Hirschi, 75, 119, 159. Mendon, Adelia Buist, 75, 112, 150. Providence, Pearl Sharp, 75, 143, 191. College Ward, Ella Jensen, 90, 98, 109.
Juab Stake, Juab Stake, 90, 90. Eureka, Lucile P. Child, 110, 130, 118. Mills Second, Ethel Prewett, 95, 84, 88. Mammoth, Rachel McCoy, 95, 41, 43. Nephi Third, Leora Larsen, 108, 106, 98. Nephi Second, Clara Eldredge, 78, 88, 113. Delta Second, 76, 94, 124. Veda Sevier, 76, 76, 100.
Lincoln Stake, Lincoln Stake, 75, 75. Dingle, Norma Green, 98, 98. Montpelier Second, Catherine Larsen, 70, 70. Pegram, Mabel Larsen, 75, 138, 184. Paris Fourth, Ruth Hatch, 84, 84, 100. Afton, 89, 89.
Idaho Falls Stake, Idaho Falls Stake, 156, 156. Rigby, Elda E. Johnson, 92, 92. Teton, Lois Pace, 156, 156. Iona, Gladys Turner, 83, 88. Annis, Maggie Hadlock, 156, 156.
Kanab Stake, Kanab Stake, 14, 14. Fredonia, 14, 14.
Malad Stake, Malad Stake, 90, 212, 121. Malad First, Maud F. Brown, 90, 90. Woodruff, Lelain Larsen, 100, 100. Malad Fourth, Louis Vetter, 92, 92. Riverside, Ivie Edwards, 90, 45, 50. Samaria, Lydia Gadd, 88, 88. Moreland, Annie Corrie, 83, 124, 149. Holbrook, Elva Simmons, 88, 111, 126. Downey, Martha Vale, 88, 83, 94. Arimo, Lena Smeltstown, 88, 83, 94.
Idaho Falls Stake, Idaho Falls Stake, 35, 35. Rigby, Sarah E. Benson, 121?, 25, 21. Springville Second, Evelyn West, 37, 29, 37. Rexburg Third, Lydia P. Merrill, 33, 33. Springville First, Mary Goodwin, 35?, 35, 35. Springville Sixth, Louie Mae Smith, 35?, 35, 35. Lindale, 18, 18.
Idaho Stake, Idaho Stake, 92, 212, 121?. Lava Hot Springs, Lenore Jenkins, 90, 90. Pocatello Third, Lottie Gailey, 90, 90. McCammon, Alta P. Merrell, 103, 103. Pocatello Fifth, Claudia Perry, 90, 80, 111. Arimo Second, Annie M. Hadlock, 100, 109, 109. Thatcher, Effie White, 104, 104. Downey, Lena Smeltstown, 107, 107. Basalt, Nola Jenson, 90, 90. Chester, Blanche N. Oman, 103, 103. Rexburg Second, Jennie Loomer, 98, 98. Rexburg, Evelyn Smith, 100, 100. Teton, Elma J. Moore, 100, 100.
Jordan Stake, Jordan Stake, 27, 27. Sandy, Fern, 80, 80. Midvale Fourth, Ella G. Rasmussen, 23, 78, 86. Cottonwood, Gertrude Hickenlooper, 31, 31. Brighton, Rose L. Larsen, 27, 48, 78. Hunter Second, Alice Higgins, 23, 128, 128. Holladay, 123, 123.
Montpelier Stake, Montpelier Stake, 98, 98. Georgetown, 86, 86. Bern, Clarice Tullis, 96, 96. Montpelier Third, Hilna A. Seely, 103, 103. Liberty, Elizabeth F. Gray, 98, 98. Bloomington, Rachel Daley, 98, 98. Liberty Second, 76, 76, 100.
Morgan Stake, Morgan Stake, 47, 47. Milton, 48, 48. Peterson, Lenora Myer, 48, 40, 40. East Porterville, Annie Harris, 60, 32, 32. Mountain Green, Elsie Palmer, 60, 32, 32. Stoddard, Harriet Harris, 9, 9.

300 
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Liberty Stake, Liberty Stake, 148, 28, 19. Kaysville, Blanche Child, 89, 25, 28. Layton Ward, Mary E. Morrey, 85, 55, 65. Roy, Grace Belnap, 76, 100, 132. Clinton, Edna Watkins, 84, 90, 107.
Cache Valley Stake, Cache Valley Stake, 24, 24. Hyde Park, Miriam Reeder, 103, 139, 135. Providence, Mary Bates, 76, 154, 203. College Ward, Helen Whitaker, 75, 75.
East Jordan Stake, East Jordan Stake, 26, 26. Big Cottonwood, Leona Ashton, 88, 10, 10. West Jordan, Minnie Millard, 129, 26, 20. Holladay, Helen S. Ballard, 76, 21, 28. Bennion, 38, 38.
Malad Stake, Malad Stake, 107, 947, 947. Malad First, Laverne Jones, 94, 86, 92. Downey, Mae E. Miller, 98, 102, 104. Arbon, Mary Anderson, 88, 57, 65. Holbrook, Maybelle Davis, 107, 40, 37. Stone, Dorothy DeGraw, 76, 10, 13. Paul, Mary Gee, 107, 52, 49.
Oneida Stake, Oneida Stake, 60, 60. Oxford, 60, 60. Clifton, 80, 80. Whitney, Wanda Parker, 112, 12, 11. Preston, Helena Hansen, 73, 93, 128.
Ogden Stake, Ogden Stake, 81, 81. Ogden Second, Dora O. Camp, 76, 31, 41. Ogden Third, Josephine Strachan, 98, 102, 104. Ogden Fifth, Virginia Browning, 82, 138, 168. Ogden Seventh, Alice G. Carver, 84, 67, 80. Roy, Ina Carver, 86, 46, 54. Marriottsville, Ella Boyer, 74, 37, 50. Eden, 87, 19, 22. Huntsville, Eva Bramwell, 87, 13, 15. Harrisville, 87.
Maricopa Stake, Maricopa Stake, 87, 87. Chandler, 87, 87.
Montpelier Stake, Montpelier Stake, 93, 223, 235. Ovid, Nora Abrams, 76, 34, 45. Bern, Clarice Tullis, 90, 26, 29. Montpelier Third, Vilma Olson, 88, 68, 77. Montpelier First, Ella May McClellan, 86, 84, 98. Bloomington, Grace Hart, 87, 34, 39. Wardboro, Eliza Brinkerhoff, 87, 17, 20. Raymond, 87, 13, 15.
Morgan Stake, Morgan Stake, 108, 468, 432. Milton, 108, 17, 16. Porterville, Lillie Chipman, 85, 85. Mountain Green, Lillie Clark, 86.
North Cache Stake, North Cache Stake, 40, 40. North Cache, Alva Harding, 89, 89. Newton, Jessie Jensen, 59, 16, 27. Lewiston, LeVon Thomas, 89, 62, 70. Smithfield Third, Sarah Evans, 46, 76, 166. Newton, Bathsheba Briggs, 89, 42, 47. Clarkston, 80, 80.
Oneida Stake, Oneida Stake, 15, 15. Arbon, Agnes Gee, 107, 107.

301
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Long Beach Stake, Long Beach Stake, 126, 126. Inglewood, Gloria E. Stroup, 80, 100, 80. Redondo, Virginia Stowell, 80, 103, 83. Lynwood, Mary Ann Atwood, 80, 156, 125. Hermosa, Ruth M. Brown, 81, 62, 77. Glendale, Eva Ann Warren, 81, 140, 173. El Segundo, Lela M. Goodwin, 81, 35, 43. Los Angeles, 83, 89, 107. Wilmington, Margaret Brown, 106, 39, 37.
Millcreek Stake, Millcreek Stake, 158, 158. Holladay, 158, 158. East Millcreek, 14, 14. Olympus, 122, 122.
East River Stake, East River Stake, 31, 31. Lake, 96, 96. Wanship, Nellie Atkins, 86, 12, 14. Coalville, Mabel Hatch, 86, 108, 126. Park City, Lela Ralston, 85, 38, 45. Heber, Alta McNaughts, 79, 35, 44.
Nampa Stake, Nampa Stake, 39, 39. Caldwell, Ernie Graber, 110, 23, 21. Meridian, Margaret Nelson, 93, 90, 97. Nampa Third, Rea A. Mills, 97, 249, 257. Emmett, Abbie Hunsicker, 79, 21, 27. Kuna, Mary Anne Burgess, 70, 114, 163. Middleton, Zona Ormond, 102, 11, 11. Eagle, Helen Norman, 93, 102, 110. Malta, Ruth Thomas, 93, 170, 183. Pleasant Valley, Edith Thornock, 85, 43, 50. Grace, Marthena, 85, 85.
Phoenix Stake, Phoenix Stake, 671, 83, 79. Chandler, 83, 79. Salt River, Blanche Jones, 102, 80, 79.
San Fernando, San Fernando, 134, 80, 83. Alhambra, Alta Ellsworth, 90, 59, 66. Burbank, 102, 25, 100.
Los Angeles Stake, Los Angeles Stake, 107, 107. Hollywood, 81, 81. Eagle Rock, 78, 78. Glendale, 75, 75. Los Angeles Wilshire, 97, 97. Pasadena, 95, 95.
Maricopa Stake, Maricopa Stake, 668, 668. Mesa, 128, 128. Chandler, 83, 83. Phoenix, 84, 84.
North Sanpete Stake, North Sanpete Stake, 21, 21. Ephraim, 21, 21. Manti, 21, 21.
Nampa Second, Nampa Second, 100, 100. Kuna, 14, 14. Meridian, 134, 134. Caldwell, 55, 55. Eagle, 14, 14. Middleton, 124, 124. Star, 30, 30.
Nevada Stake, Nevada Stake, 97, 97. Reno, Ruth West, 104, 104. Sparks Second, Eva Hoar, 97, 97. Ruth, 97, 97.
New York Stake, New York Stake, 47, 47. Brooklyn, Janette Layton, 86, 26, 26. Manhattan, Marcia Tillotson, 95, 21, 21.
Crowning In Montezuma, Crowning In Montezuma, 89, 8, 9. Indian School, Taviena Taliman, 89, 8, 9. Moenkopi, Carlina Hanson, 175, 17, 9. Santa Maria, Bia Fox, 246, 23, 9. Kirtland, Ida Tsosie, 81, 40, 49. Tuba City, 78, 125, 161.
Peach Box Mission, Peach Box Mission, 78, 58, 78. Farmington, Bessie H. Smith, 90, 31, 34. Bluff, Bessie Nielson, 91, 30, 33. Blanding, 130, 37, 28.
Pearl C. Belgian, Pearl C. Belgian, 103, 103. Burley Second, 75, 75. Oakley, 75, 75. Glauzer, George Semien, 83, 83. Hygene, Melva A. Vy, 37, 37. Oakley Second, 12, 12. Lovell, Dorothy Duncall, 75, 75.
Lehi Stake, Lehi Stake, 75, 75. Lehi H. Parker, 57, 57. Lehi Third, 81, 81. Lewistown, Josephine Johnson, 80, 80. Draper, Martha Bowen, 170, 170. Alpine, 98, 98. American Fork, Grace Nelson, 97, 97. Alpine, 97, 97.
Moapa Stake, Moapa Stake, 81, 81. Virgin, Lucinda Dalton, 95, 95. Bunkerville, Mae Halverson, 95, 95.

302
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
North Davis Stake, North Davis Stake, 91, 91. Clinton, Edith Smith, 116, 91. Clearfield Second, Lydia Holcic, 91, 108, 119. Sunset, Grace Belnap, 76, 76, 100.
North Idaho Falls Stake, North Idaho Falls Stake, 440, 440. Dubois, Serepta Wainman, 106, 95, 91. Rexburg, Martha J. Huff, 116, 213, 183. St. Anthony, Ethel Mathews, 133, 113, 85. Newdale, Josephine Clark, 101, 31, 31. Idaho Falls First, Annie Greenwalt, 142, 68, 48. Shelley, Mary M. Thompson, 110, 61, 56. Idaho Falls Second, Hazel A. Troy, 84, 37, 44.
North Sanpete Stake, North Sanpete Stake, 14, 14. Fountain Green, Fannie M. Graham, 111, 13, 12. Mt. Pleasant, Elspebella Bunnell, 79, 111, 140. Fairview, 79, 79.
Oakley Stake, Oakley Stake, 20, 20. Venturia, May Chathill, 80, 16, 20.
Ogden Third Stake, Ogden Third Stake, 122, 122. Marriottsville, Martha M. Duncan, 100, 122, 122. Harrisville, Elizabeth Moor, 85, 79, 93.
Ogden Sixteenth, Ogden Sixteenth, 26, 26. Plain City, 26, 26.
Oakland Stake, Oakland Stake, 907, 907. Richmond, Edith Shelton, 46, 21, 46. Berkeley, Viola Reeves Young, 78, 174, 224. Oakland, Doris D. Hunt, 75, 83, 111. East Richmond, 83, 40, 48.
Palo Alto Second, Palo Alto Second, 53, 53. East Richmond, 53, 53.
Parowan Stake, Parowan Stake, 177, 177. Cedar, G. L. Wood, 94, 21, 22. Enoch, Emma G. Norton, 76, 127, 167.
Pocatello Stake, Pocatello Stake, 52, 52. Tyhee, Cora R. Pond, 175, 47, 27. Arimo Second, Dorothy Dixon, 118, 52, 44. Downey, Mary E. Miller, 138, 59, 43. Malad, Effie E. Walker, 136, 78, 57. Shelley, 118, 118.
El Centro Stake, El Centro Stake, 124, 124. Calexico, Clarice Mattinson, 94, 140, 149. El Centro, Grace Hatch, 124, 163, 132.
Provo Stake, Provo Stake, 37, 37. Spanish Fork, Mary E. Willie, 175, 47, 27. Mapleton, Martha Taylor, 118, 52, 44. Salem, Jennie Ellis, 138, 59, 43. Springville, Marie Thurston, 186, 78, 42. Mitchell Smithtown, 136, 78, 57. Provo Sixth, Genieve Stanger, 110, 163, 148. Provo Third, Rhoda Mangum, 100, 120, 120. Orem, Alice Wootton, 138, 170, 123. Provo Second, Blanche Thurston, 118, 66, 56. Lindon, 76, 76.
Pocatello Fourth, Pocatello Fourth, 115, 115. Pocatello Sixth, Alta Thompson, 116, 129, 111. Pocatello Fifth, Luella Bosley, 116, 128, 110. Alameda Seventh, Blanche Bowler, 102, 79, 78. Pocatello Ninth, 78, 78. Pocatello Ninth, 78, 78.
Tooele Stake, Tooele Stake, 86, 86. Ophir, Bonnie Averett, 96, 1230, 1280. Grantsville, Daisy Ann Horton, 95, 138, 146. Tooele Third, Jennie W. Dunn, 95, 96, 101. Grantsville Second, 76, 76.
Bear River Stake, Bear River Stake, 98, 98. Cache Co. Clingan, 103, 103. Mendon, Bernice Stevens, 92, 783, 850. Hyrum, 124, 124.
Pioneer Stake, Pioneer Stake, 175, 175. Brigham City Second, Mabel Bischoff, 94, 21, 22. Fielding, Cora R. Pond, 76, 127, 167.
Tooele First, Tooele First, 100, 100. Fielding, 100, 100. Clarkston, Marguerite Morrison, 124, 124. Deweyville, 97, 97. Tremonton, 97, 97.
Pocatello Fourth, Pocatello Fourth, 311, 311. Pocatello Sixth, 129, 129. Pocatello Fifth, 106, 106. Alameda, 79, 79. Pocatello Ninth, 71, 71.

303

Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Richmond Stake, Richmond Stake, 63, 63. Richmond, Mary Greaves, 100, 82, 82. Trenton, Melba Sorensen, 100, 62, 62. Lewiston, Alta Anderson, 80, 93, 116.
Rigby Stake, Rigby Stake, 51, 51. Rexburg, Eva Ricks, 94, 35, 35. Lorenzo, Rhoda Morrison, 81, 62, 76. Menan, 81, 93, 115. Teton, Elna Riding, 95, 93, 98. Annis, Alta Brown, 45, 60, 133.
Ogden Stake, Ogden Stake, 213, 213. Ogden Fourth, Vilate Powell, 95, 168, 177. Ogden Seventh, Velma Phillips, 84, 24, 29. Ogden Thirteenth, Blanche Marrietta, 102, 210, 206. West Weber, 96, 102, 106.
St. George Stake, St. George Stake, 204, 204. Hurricane, Jennie Henderson, 140, 714, 511. La Verkin, 130, 29, 22.
Oneida Stake, Oneida Stake, 70, 70. Malad, Eulah Olsen, 86, 10, 12. Preston, Hattie G. Anderson, 90, 70, 78. Weston, Ona R. Anderson, 90, 25, 28.
Oxford Third, Oxford Third, 60, 60. Dayton, 21, 21. Swanlake, Emma F. Little, 66, 55, 83. Dayton, 90, 30, 33. Lake, 45, 60, 133.
Ontario Stake, Ontario Stake, 80, 80. Jordan Valley, Alberta McNeil, 76, 137, 180. Vale, Alice O. Caldwell, 90, 17, 19. Nyssa, Christine Cox, 100, 63, 63.
Provo Stake, Provo Stake, 75, 75. Spanish Fork, Maud River Stake, 174, 174. Mapleton, 100, 100. Payson, 41, 41.
Reno Stake, Reno Stake, 49, 49. Sparks, 49, 49. Reno, 49, 49. Fallon, 89, 89. Lovelock, 89, 89.
York Stake, York Stake, 17, 17. Lovell, 17, 17. Buffalo, 93, 93.
Rigby Stake, Rigby Stake, 136, 136. Rexburg, Lovina Olsen, 76, 202, 266. Lorenzo, Pearl Putnam, 85, 11, 13. Menan, Bertha Willmore, 90, 20, 22. Annis, Mildred Greenhalgh, 80, 29, 36. Teton, Ivy Alto, 85, 13, 15. Teton Second, 76, 76.
Saratoga Stake, Saratoga Stake, 15, 15. Encampment, 85, 85. Rawlins, Ella Heacock, 90, 12, 13. Pinos Heaty, 90, 18, 20.
Pocatello Tenth, Pocatello Tenth, 511, 511. Pocatello Fourth, 72, 72. Pocatello Eighth, 72, 72. Rockland, 72, 72.
Portland Stake, Portland Stake, 40, 40. Salem, 90, 90. Eugene, 76, 76.
St. Johns Stake, St. Johns Stake, 90, 90. Greer, 76, 76.
East Los Angeles, East Los Angeles, 51, 51. El Monte, 96, 96. Glendale, 90, 90. South Pasadena, 96, 177, 185. Pomona, 80, 80.
Provo Fifth, Provo Fifth, 30, 30. Springville, 94, 94. Provo St. Williams, 94, 94.
St. George L., St. George L., 80, 80. McGregor L., 80, 80. Virgen L., 75, 75.
Cache Wells, Cache Wells, 17, 17. Clarkston, Lola C. Webb, 94, 137, 146. Smithfield North, Alta Christensen, 80, 37, 46. Hyrum, Emma Christensen, 112, 38, 34. Cornish, 80, 80. City Springs, 51, 51.
Ogden East, Ogden East, 76, 76. Ogden Second, Utah Ogden Second, 95, 95. Ogden Fifth, Nels P. Larsen, 85, 86, 101. High Vista, 80, 100, 125.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino, 88, 88. Pomona, Bonnie Vincent, 86, 86. Riverside, Ava Woodbury, 86, 86. Colton, 100, 100. Redlands, Grace Melling, 100, 100. Alta Loma, 95, 95. Eldorado Canyon, Clara Jones, 95, 85, 89. Cucamonga, Eltagene Martin, 88, 85, 96. San Bernardino, 88, 85, 96.
Pocatello Fourth, Pocatello Fourth, 311, 311. Pocatello Stake, 72, 72. Rockland Stake, 72, 72.
Provo Eighth, Provo Eighth, 75, 75. Provo L., 75, 75. McGregor L., 80, 80.
Edgemont, Edgemont, 90, 90. North Orem, 96, 96. Pleasant Grove, 94, 94.
Smithfield, Smithfield, 17, 17. Cache O. Wells, 177, 177. Clarkston, Smithfield Christensen, 80, 37, 46. Newton, 112, 38, 34. Cornish, 80, 80. Lewiston, 51, 51.
San Fernando, San Fernando, 95, 95. Ogden, 95, 95. Alhambra Pasadena, 130, 130. Los Angeles, 97, 97. Culver City, 100, 100. Los Angeles Brentwood, 110, 110. Baldwin Park, 101, 101.
Samaria Fork, Samaria Fork, 49, 49. Samaria First, 85, 85. Samaria, 90, 90.
Porter Smith, Porter Smith, 85, 85. Harrisville, 103, 103. Preston, Clarinda Nelson, 76, 76. Emmett, Nelson, 76, 76.
Virgin Ward, Virgin Ward, 40, 40. Grafton, 76, 76. Rockville, 73, 73.
Utah Stake, Utah Stake, 17, 17. Lehi, Smith, 94, 94. Orem, Rhoda Mattinson, 94, 94. American Fork, Harriet Christensen, 80, 80. Highland, Lola Barton, 130, 130. City Springs, 90, 90.
Provo Eighth, Provo Eighth, 96, 96. Edgemont, 96, 96. North Orem, 94, 94.

304

Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Riverside Stake, Riverside Stake, 9163, 9163. Arlington, Linda De Hill, 90, 95, 106. Corona, Eleanor Hansen, 106, 82, 77. Perris, Edna Beaman, 66, 93, 141.
Independence Stake, Independence Stake, 8, 8. Independence Second, Ethel L. Welch, 84, 81, 96. Independence Fourth, Emma Allen, 38, 37, 103. Buckner, Opal Noren, 12, 17, 142. Missouri, Rachael Eulander, 44, 109, 247. Independence, Lillian Bowen, 110, 87, 79. Independence Third, 110, 87, 79.
Snowflake Stake, Snowflake Stake, 9625, 9625. Shumway, Sally Crosby, 189, 67, 35. Lakeside, Cleo Barth, 110, 35, 32. Snowflake, Melba Smith, 76, 61, 80. Pinedale, 78, 50, 64.
Sugar Beet, Sugar Beet, 52, 52. Grover, 111, 111, 111. Taylor, 213, 213, 213. Thatcher, Edna Wilber, 76, 86, 113.
Shelley Stake, Shelley Stake, 90, 90. Chester, Allie V. Dunn, 85, 44, 52. Shelley, Edith Blaser, 76, 80, 106. Lewisville, Lena J. Wadley, 86, 27, 31. Firth, 100, 100, 100. Basalt, Mollie L. Lund, 104, 26, 25. Moreland, 87, 45, 52.
St. George Stake, St. George Stake, 51, 51. Washington, Lacy V. Sullivan, 110, 525, 477. Hurricane, Luela Webb, 92, 17, 19. Santa Clara, Merle Gubler, 112, 388, 347. Washington, Effie Covington, 116, 80, 69. Bloomington, Emma A. Fletcher, 100, 17, 17. Leeds, Adell Richards, 118, 38, 32. Toquerville, Trudy Willis, 110, 3, 3. Dammeron Valley, 105, 80, 76. Gunlock, 105, 80, 76.
Hillcrest Stake, Hillcrest Stake, 51, 51. Taylorsville, Bertha Davison, 81, 246, 303. Kearns Heights, Laurel Hess, 213, 217, 102. North Stake, Eleanor Mills, 76, 16, 21. Magna, 76, 16, 21.
East Granite, East Granite, 46, 46. Granite Stake, Lucille Bowles, 70, 51, 73. Draper, Josie Prater, 79, 70, 89. East Millcreek, 76, 115, 152.
Richfield Stake, Richfield Stake, 702, 702. Sevier, Lida Harker, 70, 676, 966. Monroe, Vesta L. Lund, 76, 134, 177. Annabella, Mary Dalton, 86, 24, 28.
Rexburg Stake, Rexburg Stake, 31, 31. Rexburg, Lucy Sullivan, 101, 525, 520. Moody, Laura V. Johnson, 92, 47, 51. Sugar City, Mae Welker, 112, 388, 347. Chester, Minnie Call, 118, 38, 33. Parker, Kathleen Greenhalgh, 100, 17, 17. Teton, Thirza Lewis, 110, 80, 73. Hibbard, Bessie Roberts, 105, 80, 76. Menan, 105, 80, 76. Salem, 105, 105, 105.
San Lois, San Lois, 126, 126. Bluff, Evalyn Lyman, 123, 13, 11. Monticello, Veneta Gordon, 100, 24, 24.
San Jose Stake, San Jose Stake, 24, 24. Los Gatos Heights, 85, 85, 85. San Jose First, Mary Ann Saunders, 119, 119, 119. San Jose Second, Hermana H. Snyder, 89, 89, 89. San Jose Fourth, Pearl E. Woods, 86, 127, 148. Sunnydale, Caroline Perry, 124, 212, 171. Palo Alto, Dorothy Anderson, 38, 81, 213. East Palo Alto, Olive D. Miller, 102, 61, 60. Redwood City, Emma Coxe, 76, 93, 122. San Mateo, Blanche Cowden, 90, 97, 108. Burlingame, Mary Brimhall, 110, 35, 32. Menlo Park, Minnie McMillan, 92, 84, 91. Hayward, Enola M. Wadsworth, 94, 98, 104. Oakland, Grace E. Larkin, 106, 155, 146. San Leandro, Inez E. Larkin, 92, 55, 60.
Roosevelt Stake, Roosevelt Stake, 43, 43. Elton Bracken, 130, 130. Dora Miller, 82, 82.
Provo Stake, Provo Stake, 14, 14. Levan, 14, 14. Delta, Gertrude Gordon, 61, 61.
Provo Second, Provo Second, 7, 7. Woodland, Laura J. Dent, 123, 68, 7. Woodland, Veneta Gordon, 100, 69, 69.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino, 54, 54. Pasadena, 156, 156. Redlands, 54, 54.
Riverside, Riverside, 64, 64. Elsinore, 45, 45. Hemet, 61, 61.
San Diego Stake, San Diego Stake, 9625, 9625. San Diego, Lois Crosby, 189, 67, 35. El Cajon, 110, 110, 110. Chula Vista, 78, 78, 78. Point Loma, 61, 61, 61. La Mesa, 70, 70, 70.
San Fernando, San Fernando, 9117, 9117. Burbank, Lucy V. Sullivan, 101, 525, 477. Glendale, Laura Webb, 92, 338, 368. Pasadena, Merle Gubler, 112, 388, 347. Alhambra, Effie Covington, 118, 80, 69. San Gabriel, Emma A. Fletcher, 100, 17, 17. Arcadia, Adell Richards, 118, 38, 32. Monrovia, Trudy Willis, 110, 3, 3. El Monte, 105, 80, 76. Azusa, 105, 80, 76. La Verne, Thilda Olsen, 105, 105, 105. Upland, Ivy L. Johnson, 81, 86, 106.
Bear L. Johnson, Bear L. Johnson, 122, 122. Eva L. Johnson, 76, 79, 104. Alma Hope, 76, 76, 100.

305
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
St. Andrews Stake, St. Andrews Stake, 28, 28. Leoti, 28, 28. Farmland, Franklin Brand, 70, 22, 31. Holly, Emma Randall, 70, 14, 20.
St. George Central, St. George Central, 9, 9. St. George, Sylvia Harper, 88, 412, 467. Washington, Evelyn Price, 88, 9, 10. Hurricane, Elda Watson, 88, 112, 127.
Santa Clara Stake, Santa Clara Stake, 59, 59. Santa Clara, Elna Horn, 78, 117, 150. Gunlock, 76, 46, 61.
Salem Stake, Salem Stake, 17, 17. Salem, 102, 102, 102. Payson, Violet Torgau, 88, 115, 131. Santaquin, Helen Clark, 112, 87, 78. Spanish Fork, 90, 143, 159. Mapleton, Clara Snuffer, 78, 32, 41. Springville, 81, 242, 299.
Spanish Fork Stake, Spanish Fork Stake, 6342, 6342. Springville Central, Alta C. Smith, 90, 642, 713. Salem, Edith Nyman, 78, 52, 67. Payson, Vilate Spencer, 76, 132, 174. Spanish Fork, Leola Crocker, 78, 115, 147. Salem Second, 76, 43, 57. Benjamin, Ella Olsen, 79, 112, 142. Woodland, Julia Mecham, 76, 121, 159. Salem, 34, 34, 100. Elberta, 212, 212, 212. Eureka, 76, 121, 159.
Salt Lake Stake, Salt Lake Stake, 9849, 9849. Salt Lake Hill, Evelyn S. Johnson, 100, 96, 96. Poplar Grove, Joyce A. Moore, 88, 90, 102. Northpoint, Thelma J. Anderson, 76, 138, 182. Bennington, Grace Hubbard, 110, 248, 226. Granger, Nellie Norton, 76, 216, 284. Bennion Second, 105, 105, 105.
Tooele North, Tooele North, 55, 55. Tooele, Evelyn B. Dunn, 115, 115, 115. Grantsville, 76, 96, 126.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino, 275, 275. Fontana, Anna Walker, 99, 216, 218. Colton, 95, 13, 14.
Snowflake Stake, Snowflake Stake, 61, 61. Snowflake Second, Minnie E. Emery, 30, 14, 47. Shumway, 61, 61. Pinedale, 75, 86, 115. Show Low, Pearl Hoyle, 76, 75, 99. Taylor, Elsie Lee Warner, 93, 86, 92. Clay Springs, 26, 20, 77. Woodruff, 138, 138, 138.
Sevier Stake, Sevier Stake, 94, 94. Richfield Second, Lillie I. Thorson, 94, 16, 17. Monroe, Ella Nyman, 81, 87, 108. Salina, Ruby Sanders, 76, 90, 119. Koosharem, 76, 63, 83.
Shelley Stake, Shelley Stake, 86, 86. St. Lawrence Harn, 86, 447, 522.
South Cache, South Cache, 82, 82. Wellsville, Mildred Hislans, 121, 80, 66. Hyrum First, Opha Ellison, 93, 133, 143. Providence, 90, 90, 100. Millville, 80, 80, 100.
Snowly Second, Snowly Second, 51, 51. Lewiston, Ann Christiansen, 76, 37, 49.
Smithfield Stake, Smithfield Stake, 92, 92. Smithfield, Julilly Hadley, 85, 84, 99. Cub River, 85, 85, 100. Richmond, 83, 52, 63. Lewiston, Martha A. Peterson, 83, 748, 900.
Smithfield First, Smithfield First, 102, 102. Smithfield Second, 59, 59. Richmond, 743, 743.
Flagstaff, Flagstaff, 92, 92. Flagstaff, 92, 92.
Richfield, Richfield, 54, 54. Elsinore, Carrie E. Green, 94, 50, 53. Monroe, Vilate Matheson, 76, 138, 182. Glenwood, Ella L. Miller, 85, 65, 76. Salina, Leona Ivie, 76, 70, 92. Redmond, Sarah J. Williams, 95, 37, 39. Sevier, Alice Miller, 86, 67, 78. Aurora, 76, 99, 130.
Snowflake Stake, Snowflake Stake, 16, 16. Eagar, 16, 16. Snowflake, 117, 117, 117. Show Low, 90, 90, 90. Taylor, 205, 205, 205.
Seattle Stake, Seattle Stake, 920, 920. Everett, Isabel Christand, 94, 64, 68. Seattle, Florence Ward, 250, 250, 250. Tacoma, Myrtle Williams, 67, 137, 204. Bremerton, 21, 21, 21. Port Orchard, 138, 138, 138. Yakima, 63, 63, 63.
Sevier Stake, Sevier Stake, 17, 17. Richfield Second, Lillie I. Thorson, 94, 16, 17. Monroe, 108, 108, 108. Salina, 97, 97, 97.
Salt Lake Stake, Salt Lake Stake, 86, 86. North Lawrence Harn, 86, 522, 522.
Ogden, Ogden, 82, 82. Ogden, 121, 80, 66. Plain City, 93, 133, 143.
Summit Stake, Summit Stake, 44, 44. Coalville, Nora Harris, 41, 41, 61. Kamas, 82, 82, 123. Oakley, 80, 80, 100. Peoa, 80, 80, 100.
Sevier Second, Sevier Second, 107, 107. Central, 84, 84, 84.
Saratoga Stake, Saratoga Stake, 52, 52. Rawlins, 52, 52. Baggs, 85, 85, 100. Encampment, 53, 83, 157. Dixon, 63, 63, 100. Savery, 52, 52, 100. Riverside, 22, 22, 100. Walcott, 48, 48, 100.

306
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Winnipeg, Winnipeg, 612, 612. Calgary, Hazel H. Millikan, 77, 61, 79. Edmonton, Mabel Johnson, 80, 47, 59. Lethbridge, Heziah Fish, 81, 172, 213. Cardston, Violet Thurber, 84, 123, 146. Mountain View, Lela Hatch, 82, 90, 110. Raymond, Julia Bale, 89, 140, 157. Stirling, 92, 92, 100.
South Davis Stake, South Davis Stake, 36, 36. Bountiful Third, Laura M. Bunnons, 89, 130, 146. Woods Cross, Corinne Bahr, 75, 27, 36. Orchard, Cora H. Crouch, 78, 76, 97. Bountiful Second, 78, 76, 97.
West Bountiful, West Bountiful, 132, 132. North Taylor, 100, 100, 100. Centerville, Elitha Oliver, 112, 942, 841. North Davis, Myrtle Smith, 102, 21, 21. Farmington, Anna Stokes, 93, 65, 70. Kaysville, Mabel Skabelund, 128, 136, 106. Layton, Clara Udall, 110, 120, 109. Clearfield, Hazel Doxford, 100, 112, 112. Sunset, Ina L. Thorsen, 210, 193, 92. Clinton, Vilate Hurst, 110, 185, 168. Syracuse, Laura Doxford, 80, 120, 150. Vernal, 174, 174, 174.
Huntington Point, Huntington Point, 68, 68. Castle Dale, May Braithwaite, 108, 108, 108. Emery, Mona Anderson, 94, 43, 46. Elmo, 76, 76, 100. Moore, 198, 198, 198. Cleveland, Ella, 100, 100, 100. Vernal, 174, 174, 174.
Sunset Lake, Sunset Lake, 523, 523. Centerville North, Alzora L. Evans, 146, 104, 90. Woods Cross Central, Albert Johnson, 104, 124, 119. West Bountiful, Carol A. Anderson, 104, 93, 90. Woods Cross Central, Lila Jensen, 80, 87, 109. Bennion, Alta, 102, 70, 69. Bellrose, 80, 80, 100.
South Gate, South Gate, 68, 68. Bellflower, 68, 68.
Taylor Stake, Taylor Stake, 517, 517. Lethcote R. B., 96, 96, 96. Taylor, Vina, 497, 407, 82.
Malad Second, Malad Second, 79, 79. Downey Second, Beryl Daniels, 115, 176, 152. Pleasant Grove RFD, 79, 79.
Edgemont, Edgemont, 96, 96. Pleasant Grove North, Eva Walton, 100, 96, 96. Pleasant Grove, Martha K. Robinson, 87, 77, 89. Orem, Clana E. Harmer, 143, 71, 49. Pleasant Grove, 160, 160, 160. Pleasant Grove South, Anna Viola, 92, 23, 25.
Pleasant Grove, Pleasant Grove, 25, 25. Murray Brown, 100, 25, 25. Holladay East, 95, 95, 95. Draper, Eva Hillman, 90, 21, 23. East Millcreek, 74, 74, 100. Taylorsville Youth, 43, 43, 100.
Fort Hill, Fort Hill, 7, 7. Ogden Second, 75, 75, 100. Pleasant Grove RFD, 74, 74, 100.
Uinta Stake, Uinta Stake, 619, 619. Pleasant Grove, Mara L. Durdrich, 92, 202, 219. Altamont, Elna Ruth, 43, 112, 260. Duchesne, Nina Ball, 84, 93, 111. Whiterocks, Ann Thomas, 103, 37, 36.
Juanita N Weeks, Juanita N Weeks, 101, 101. Roosevelt East, 104, 104, 104. Myton, Clara Hansen, 100, 100, 100. Arcadia, Ida Dalton, 132, 132, 132. Ouray, Alice Bates, 105, 62, 59. Roosevelt Heights, 138, 138, 100. Altonah, 90, 90, 100. Pleasant Grove, 111, 111, 100.
Wasatch Stake, Wasatch Stake, 26, 26. Lindon, 100, 100, 100. Pleasant Grove, 95, 25, 26. American Fork, 74, 74, 100. Pleasant Grove Youth, 97, 97, 100.
Pleasant Grove First, Pleasant Grove First, 13, 13. Pleasant Grove, 13, 13, 100. Murray, 136, 136, 100.
Kennedy, Kennedy, 92, 92. Franklin, 92, 92.
Uinta Stake, Uinta Stake, 613, 613. Duchesne, 34, 34, 100. Altamont, 46, 46, 100. Pleasant Grove, 257, 257, 100. Whiterocks, 72, 72, 100. Arcadia, 75, 75, 100. Ouray, 41, 41, 100. Myton, 83, 83, 100.
Vernal, Vernal, 72, 72. Vernal First, 138, 138, 100. Naples, 42, 42, 100.
Pleasant Grove, Pleasant Grove, 25, 25. Pleasant Grove East, 100, 100, 100. Holladay, 95, 95, 100. East Millcreek Youth, 74, 74, 100. Draper, 43, 43, 100. Taylorsville, 74, 74, 100.
Mara A. Larson, Mara A. Larson, 111, 111. Mara A. Larson, 111, 111, 100.

307
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
South Sanpete Stake, South Sanpete Stake, 84, 84. Milburn North, Maude Sorensen, 77, 82, 106. Ephraim, Thora Warner, 83, 66, 80. Milburn South, Ruth R. Cox, 85, 91, 107.
South Sevier Stake, South Sevier Stake, 23, 23. Monroe, Aillean Bridges, 109, 125, 115. Koosharem, 85, 85, 100.
South Summit Stake, South Summit Stake, 34, 34. Kamas, Lucy Jensen, 113, 127, 113. Francis, 85, 85, 100.
Uinta Stake, Uinta Stake, 388, 388. Duchesne, Veda I. Lingren, 89, 344, 387. Ioka, Leona Lee Smith, 121, 14, 12. Altonah, Bessie Hansen, 97, 51, 53. Neola, Ethel Stillman, 86, 36, 42. Tabiona, Vera Johnson, 88, 55, 63. Whiterocks, Florence Pike, 86, 52, 60. St. Drwin, Amy Jo, 57, 49, 86.
Wasatch Stake, Wasatch Stake, 46, 46. Heber Valley Stake, Nora G. Seaboldt, 113, 32, 28. Midway, 90, 90, 100.
San Luis Valley, San Luis Valley, 43, 43. Center, Gwen W. Hyer, 95, 170, 179. Monte Vista, Mernie Jarvis, 90, 40, 44. Alamosa, 109, 69, 63.
Fremont, Fremont, 79, 79. Loa, Carol Curtis, 81, 64, 79. Bicknell, Chloe Pearson, 87, 102, 117. Lyman, Ida Alfred, 89, 24, 27. Torrey, Susan Behunin, 87, 13, 15.
Sugarhouse, Sugarhouse, 1019, 1019. Bennion, Mabel R. Barrett, 75, 775, 1033. Taylorsville, Emma Stout, 109, 174, 159. Midvale, 14, 14, 100.
Emigration, Emigration, 55, 55. Sugarhouse, 90, 90, 100. Norma, 174, 174, 100.
Sanger House, Sanger House, 20, 20. Simi Valley, Portia A. Shipley, 85, 17, 20. Simi, Eva Jackson, 80, 15, 19.
Sharon Stake, Sharon Stake, 174, 174. Orem, 174, 174, 100.
South Sanpete Second, South Sanpete Second, 205, 205. Wayne Books, 108, 108, 100. Ephraim, 22, 22, 100.
Heber Valley Stake, Heber Valley Stake, 9445, 9445. Heber Second, Blanche Christensen, 98, 542, 554. Charleston, Deloy Gardner, 109, 237, 217. Center Creek, Erma Grimley, 96, 123, 128. Heber Second, Gladys Cowdell, 98, 87, 89. Daniel, Lucille Singleton, 92, 103, 112. Midway First, Eva Van, 100, 65, 65. Midway Second, 100, 72, 72.
Washakie Stake, Washakie Stake, 64, 64. Wyoming Second, Esther Ward, 108, 8.5?, 79. Cokeville, Vivian Ford, 100, 100, 100.
Brigham City Place, Brigham City Place, 6, 6. Norma, 77, 77, 100. Simi, 76, 76, 100.
Emmett, Emmett, 11, 11. Nampa, Leola L. Rauser, 82, 19, 23. Kuna, 110, 11, 10. Middleton, Mary C. Orchard, 88, 24, 27. Eagle, 84, 84, 100.
Sharon Sanpete, Sharon Sanpete, 105, 105. Susan Hales, 105, 105, 100. Spring City, 22, 22, 100. Wayne Books, 300, 300, 100. La Verkin, 98, 98, 100. Santaquin, 308, 308, 100. Beaver, 92, 92, 100. Payson, 29, 29, 100. Ephraim, 92, 92, 100. El. Cedar, Blanche Baum, 115, 9414?, 8261?. Mt. Pleasant, Edith Woodard, 148, 47, 32. Delta Springs, Dorothy Singleton, 143, 103, 72. Centerfield, Clara Freeman, 98, 64, 65. Levan, Ray Young, 117, 38, 33. Manti, 91, 120, 132. Ephraim, Grace Van, 100, 65, 65. Richfield, Cecilia, 100, 72, 72.
Wasatch Stake, Wasatch Stake, 73, 73. Heber, 113, 113, 100. Alpine, 213, 213, 100. Lindon, 113, 113, 100.
Uintah, Uintah, 8, 8. Zion/Zion/Zion/Amond, 115, 115, 100.
Vernal, Vernal, 25, 25. Green River Orchard, 105, 105, 100. Vernal Green, 143, 143, 100. Manila, 138, 138, 100. Naples, 43, 43, 100. Jensen, 117, 117, 100. Lapoint, 91, 91, 100. Elkhorn, Young, 100, 100, 100. Coalville, Van, 100, 100, 100. Upton, Cecilia, 100, 100, 100. Myton, Eva, 72, 72, 100.
Union Stake, Union Stake, 46, 46. Elco, 75, 75, 100. Magna, 243, 243, 100.
Pendleton, Pendleton, 33, 33. Mara Frank La, 82, 82, 100. Cascade Rosalie, Chasman, 27, 27, 100.
Garland Stake, Garland Stake, 51, 51. Collinston, 76, 76, 100. Riverside, 263, 263, 100.
Uintah, Uintah, 9, 9. Uintah, 9, 9, 100.
La Verkin, La Verkin, 76, 76. North Davis, 75, 75, 100. Cedar View, 243, 243, 100. Payson, 113, 113, 100. Vista, Vista, 213, 213, 100.

308
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Weber Stake, Weber Stake, 107, 107. North Ogden, Angela Valdez, 76, 81, 107. Weber First, 50, 50, 100.
Washington Heights, Washington Heights, 3, 3. Plain City, Nita G. Mecham, 75, 37?, 50.
Pioneer Stake, Pioneer Stake, 95, 95. Eden, Leona Burt, 108, 3, 3. Brigham City Third, Irma I. Stones, 76, 11, 14.
Layton, Layton, 7, 7. Kaysville, Alice Stevenson, 108, 39, 36. Layton, Evelyn H. Rich, 100, 6, 6. Clinton, Marie E. Clapp, 100, 42, 42. Morgan, Lucille Bensaurat, 100, 41, 41. Farr West, 78, 10, 13.
Warda Stake, Warda Stake, 137, 137. Salt Lake County, Eugena Green, 81, 11?, 9. Spanish Forks, Maud Vickers, 80, 161, 201.
Mindy, Mindy, 132, 132. Mt. Pleasant, Elbert Harwood, 94, 121, 128. Burch, Velda Young, 97, 138, 142. Moroni, Renee Craig, 86, 168, 195.
West Jordan Stake, West Jordan Stake, 46, 46. Bountiful Third, Abigail Wicks, 123, 58, 47. Granger, Amanda J. Beck, 124, 73, 59. Arcadia, 100, 110, 110.
Scofield, Scofield, 28, 28. Spring Canyon, Eugenia Rilla, 76, 87, 115. Clear Creek, Rosa Gibson, 83, 19, 23. Kenilworth, Eve Lloyd, 84, 27, 32.
Yellowstone Stake, Yellowstone Stake, 61, 61. Driggs, Juanita Gilbert, 89, 61, 68. Logan, Eva Lloyd, 84, 27, 32.
California Mission, California Mission, 16, 16. San Bernardino, Bessie Field, 75, 12, 16. St. Louis M. B., 81, 13, 16.
Richfield, Richfield, 40, 40. Richfield, 98, 39, 40.
East Richfield, East Richfield, 20, 20. Annabella, Denver Billups, 90, 18, 20.
South Manti, South Manti, 17, 17. Ephraim, Dr. James Thayne, 76, 11, 14. Sterling, Lee Larsen, 85, 11, 13. Manti, Elma C. Taylor, 86, 38, 44.
South Oneida, South Oneida, 11, 11. Malad Second, Fay Dahl, 80, 11, 13. Tremonton, Rose H. Benson, 94, 15, 16. Oakley First, 107, 14, 13. Portage, 97, 10, 10. Mantua, Ada Grace, 88, 11, 12. Oakley Second, Doreen Roberts, 100, 15, 15. South Willard, Luana Christensen, 84, 12, 14. Cache, Lola Hanson, 100, 32, 32. Lewiston, Annabelle, 80, 9, 9. Elsinore/Elsmere, 108, 13, 12. Koosharem, Maria Christiansen, 133, 39, 29. Dewey, Emery, 104, 12, 11. Eden Birch, 131, 39, 30. Levan Blue, 93, 15, 16. Loma, Mabel, 100, 9, 9. Levan Yellow, 108, 14, 13. Hyrum, Alice Helton, 100, 6, 6. Tooele, Lillie Etta, 100, 14, 14. Loma, 38, 38, 100.
Riverton Roy, Riverton Roy, 100, 100. Spanish Fork, 120, 120, 100.
Holden, Holden E. Weber, 6, 6.
Chandler Mission, Chandler Mission, 16, 16. Mesa Ward, Bessie Field, 75, 12, 16. St. Louis, Elna M. B., 81, 13, 16.
Richfield, Richfield, 40, 40. Richfield, 98, 39, 40.
East Richfield, East Richfield, 20, 20. Annabella, Denver Billups, 90, 18, 20.
South Manti, South Manti, 17, 17. Ephraim, Dr. James Thayne, 76, 11, 14. Gunnison, 85, 11, 13. Manti, Elma C. Taylor, 86, 38, 44.
South Oneida, South Oneida, 11, 11. Portage, 80, 11, 13. Tremonton, 94, 15, 16. Plymouth, 107, 14, 13. Oakley, 97, 10, 10. Mantua, 88, 11, 12. South Willard, 100, 15, 15. Deweyville, 84, 12, 14. Plymouth Second, 100, 32, 32. Smithfield, 80, 9, 9. Elsinore, 108, 13, 12. North Ephraim, 133, 39, 29. South Ephraim, 104, 12, 11. Santa Paula, 131, 39, 30. Salina, 93, 15, 16. Scipio, 100, 9, 9. Benniontown/Bennions, 108, 14, 13. Moroni, 100, 6, 6. Dixie, 100, 14, 14. Loma, 38, 38, 100.
Chandler Mission, Chandler Mission, 3, 3. Chandler, 100, 100, 100. Higley, 120, 120, 100.
Kingston, Kingston, 5, 5. Holden E. Weber, 6, 6.


309
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Fremont Timber, Fremont Timber, 20, 20. Lyman, Georgina French, 100, 20, 20. Bicknell, Rutha L. Clanthrall, 100, 232, 232. Thurber, Martha Rasband, 100, 238, 238. Elsinore, Marie L. Henderson, 108, 28, 26. St. Anthony Third, Vera H. Mc, 111, 81, 73.
Twin Groves, Twin Groves, 51, 51. Driggs, Pearl Bailey, 145, 45, 31. Milner, 115, 115, 100. Rexburg, Verna M. Peck, 45, 45, 100.
Duchesne, Duchesne, 45, 45. Bridgeland, Marion W. White, 100, 15, 15. Hanna, 45, 45, 100.
Logan, Logan, 45, 45. Lewiston, Delia Stock, 100, 45, 45. Cornish, Grace E. Brown, 100, 48, 48. Trenton, Maud Anderson, 100, 35, 35. Smithfield, Launa Hale, 107, 34, 32. Mendon, 80, 7, 9.
Zion Peaks Stake, Zion Peaks Stake, 197, 197. Mt. Carmel, Assand H. Gibson, 91, 298, 327. Parowan South, Arline Roskelley, 108, 60, 56. Hurricane South, Mildred Brooks, 97, 82, 85. Enterprise, Ethel L. Bundy, 97, 43, 44. Monticello, Nila Kelly, 104, 74, 71. Springdale, 33, 33, 100.
Australian Mission, Australian Mission, 525, 525. Adelaide, Violet Cox, 145, 195, 134. Melbourne, Ella C. Cox, 130, 76, 58. Brisbane, Elsie M. Brown, 100, 100, 100. Tasmania, Mae Thompson, 100, 39, 39. Glen Innes, Fay Stewart, 100, 39, 39. Gore, Mary M. Hirst, 160, 20, 13. Ohai, 73, 73, 100.
Central City, Central City, 5, 5. Blackfoot, Donna Villa, 100, 5, 5. Freeling Biscaye, 100, 232, 232. Aberdeen, Julia Draper, 88, 238, 238. Challis, Arthur Ballard, 109, 28, 26. American Falls, Daisy Taylor, 81, 81, 100. Malad, Gladys Holland, 81, 81, 100. Firth, Zula Griffiths, 81, 81, 100. Rockford, Enoch Eckstron, 76, 76, 100. Stanley, Alice Brown, 100, 100, 100. Challis, Gareth Madsen, 138, 138, 100. Twin Falls City, Sarah Golden, 100, 100, 100. Shelly, Stanley Johnson, 138, 138, 100. Springfield, Mary Olson, 76, 76, 100. St. Anthony, 75, 75, 100.
East Central States, East Central States, 9, 9. Indianapolis, Ruth Birch, 100, 9, 9. Lansing, H. Eckels, 111, 10, 9.
Richmond, Richmond, 14, 14. Benson, John York, 100, 4, 4. Clarkston, James Pool, 80, 209, 261. Cache Junction, Alta Powell, 80, 9, 11. Newton, Caroline Wells, 9, 9, 100. Charleston, Vala Taylor, 80, 14, 18. Clarkston, Bertha Stevens, 73, 11, 15. Clifton, Ara Lam Hirst, 73, 11, 15.
Lake Cities Mission, Lake Cities Mission, 19, 19. Chicago, 111, 21, 19. Elgin, 138, 8, 6. Cicero, 89, 9, 10. Zion, 86, 7, 8.
Okinawa, Okinawa, 3, 3. Okinawa, 100, 3, 3.
Margaret Daw, Margaret Daw, 100, 100. Donna Villa, 100, 100, 100.
North Utah, North Utah, 21, 21. Manila, J. Sherland, 111, 21, 21. Kamas, 89, 8, 6. Chamberlerg, 86, 7, 8.
Lancaster, Lancaster, 7, 7. West Toano, My, 86, 6, 7.


310
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Maricopa, Maricopa, 4, 4. Mesa, Mrs. Howard C., 76, 3, 4. Chandler, 23, 23, 100.
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, 41, 41. Philadelphia, Jane T. Barrett, 75, 3, 4. New Jersey, Ruth D. Weaver, 102, 138, 135. Trenton, Sarah Pulley, 100, 23, 23. Reading, Hazel Uhley, 100, 10, 10. Harrisburg, 117, 7, 6.
Northwestern States Mission, Northwestern States Mission, 13, 13. Washington, Mildred Spencer, 85, 11, 13. Olympia, 6, 6, 100. Portland, Clarice Brown, 100, 100, 100. Yakima, 6, 6, 100.
Hartford, Hartford, 7, 7. Worcester, Thelma W. Wilcox, 96, 6, 7. New Haven, Olive Johnson, 84, 5, 6. Hartford, Ruth W. Moser, 84, 17, 20. Naugatuck, Sarah McBee, 83, 5, 6. New London, 83, 5, 6.
North Central States, North Central States, 9, 9. Duluth, Edna R. Silin, 78, 7, 9. Fargo, 20?, 20?, 100. Hattie Hanson, 107, 10, 9. Grand Forks, Ethel, 80, 11, 14. Bismarck, Mabel A. Johnson, 80, 5, 6. Minot, Mrs. George Ali, 83, 5, 6. vent, Bertha Birth, 100, 5, 5. Williston, Hazel Hopner, 100, 5, 5. rent, 5, 5, 100.
Rexburg, Rexburg, 5, 5. Rexburg, 83, 5, 6. Sioux Falls, 16, 16, 100.
Northern California, Northern California, 8, 8. Alameda, Mary P. Howell, 80, 8, 10. Oakland, Edna Hanson, 80, 5, 6. Hayward, Alice Rasmussen, 80, 12, 15. Contra, Elta Hillman, 81, 25, 31. Costa, 81, 25, 31.
Goldenbury, Goldenbury, 11, 11. Mesa, Eden Cuper, 90, 10, 11. Buckeye, Sister Rasmussen, 85, 20, 23. Farmers Mortarity, 111, 137, 123.
Springfield, Springfield, 16, 16. Newport, Nancie G. Chan, 95, 16, 17. Springfield, Lula Moore, 107, 155, 145. Galilico, Ruth W. Moser, 100, 135, 135. St. Louis, Lydia Olson, 100, 12, 12. East St. Louis, Willa Johnson, 83, 12, 14. Hamilton, 100, 12, 12. Decatur, 78, 78, 100.
Agnes, Agnes, 6, 6. Mrs. Derwin, 100, 6, 6. Salt Lake City, 14, 14, 100.
West Michigan, West Michigan, 7, 7. Muskegon, Winifred H., 78, 14, 18. Bay City, Nellie Wells, 100, 30, 30. Detroit, Roxa Schatz, 83, 13, 16.
Grand Rapids, Grand Rapids, 13, 13. Jackson, Ruth W. Dake, 100, 13, 13. Kalamazoo, 40, 40, 100.
Madison, Madison, 10, 10. Janesville, Ruth W. Moser, 76, 47, 62. Green Bay, 82, 6, 7. La McDowgall, 82, 12, 15. Iron River, Mollie G. Wells, 80, 12, 15. Mosinee, 80, 80, 100.
Fort, Fort, 7, 7. Fort Ann Lee, 78, 7, 9. Richardson, 52, 52, 100. Laramie, 107, 107, 107. Malme, G. Wells, 80, 80, 100.
Western States, Western States, 16, 16. Pocatello, Elsie Goff North, 94, 15, 16. Salt Lake City, Mary Daw, 119, 10, 8. Pocatello, 85, 11, 13. Twin Falls, 87, 13, 15. Ogden/Ogden/Right, 100, 13, 13. ille, 92, 14, 15. Nampa, 86, 12, 14.
Pocatello, Pocatello, 7, 7. Salt Lake City, 120, 9, 8. Nampa, 110, 10, 9. Idaho Falls, Priscilla Ann, 89, 13, 15. Twin Falls, 102, 12, 12. Ogden, 87, 9, 10.
Lancaster, Lancaster, 7, 7. West Toano, My, 86, 7, 7.
Margaret Daw, Margaret Daw, 100, 100. Donna Villa, 100, 100, 100. Nellie Cuper, 90, 10, 11. Sister Rasmussen, 85, 20, 23. Farmers Mortarity, 111, 137, 123.
North Utah, North Utah, 21, 21. Manila, J. Sherland, 111, 21, 21. Kamas, 89, 89, 100. Chamberlerg, 86, 86, 100.

311

Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Gilroy, Gilroy, 20, 20. Hollister, Theresa W. Ensign, 100, 7, 7. Salinas, Jesse Williamson, 90, 18, 20. Breen, Barbara Williamson, 90, 18, 20. Watsonville, May Pia Garmer, 94, 8, 9. Pacific Grove, Vida Nichols, 86, 11, 13. Petaluma, Luis A. Nye, 85, 17, 17. Napa, 85, 17, 17.
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, 12, 12. San Jose, Maude A. Smith, 83, 10, 12. Santa Rosa, Lucille Campbell, 83, 15, 18. Stockton, Georgia Lott, 100, 5, 5. Visalia, Janie, 83, 18, 22.
Victorville, Victorville, 77, 777. Northern States Mission, 82, 157, 192. Central Indiana, 86, 81, 94.
Cambridge City, Cambridge City, 19, 19. Shelbyville, Mertie Bille, 84, 16, 19. Pendleton, Vera High, 100, 153, 153. Central Ohio, Eva C. Crim, 91, 42, 46. Richmond, Lois, 124, 21, 17. Lima, Mertie Connan, 100, 7, 7. Evanston, 123, 69, 56. Toledo, 143, 1, 1.
North Indiana, North Indiana, 97, 97. North Wayne, 83, 13, 16. Wabash, 114, 25, 22. Norch Gary, 83, 84, 101. Griffith, Ethel Deiley, 102, 86, 84. Muncie, Lowe F. Dalley, 112, 4, 4. Chester, 100, 9, 8. Rader Bolton, Lewis Cowley, 110, 9, 8. Union City, 123, 6, 5. Edan Tarpion, 123, 6, 5.
Spokane, Spokane, 12, 12. Coeur d'Alene, 75, 9, 12. Lewiston, 119, 20, 17. Bonners Ferry, 76, 117, 154. Spokane, 71, 71, 100.
South Eastern States Mission, South Eastern States Mission, 18, 18. Louisville, Edgar Mills, 98, 12, 13. Knoxville, Floyde Hayes, 86, 10, 12. Chattanooga, Mary H. Stone, 86, 13, 15. Greensboro, Sarah, 76, 9, 12. Murfreesboro, Alice Stone, 80, 30, 38. Knoxville, 76, 30, 39.
Kimball, Kimball, 11, 11. Ogden Mountain, 100, 8, 8. Cache, 123, 48, 39. Ogden, 109, 10, 9. Franklin, 100, 4, 4.
Yulella, Yulella, 12, 12. St. Strope, 88, 7, 7. Murfreesboro, 76, 76, 100. Ala. Richardson, 88, 88, 100.
Levan A. Bull, Levan A. Bull, 92, 92. Nephi, Walter, 200, 11, 5.
Cleeson, Cleeson, 14, 14. Joseph B. Smith, 86, 9, 11. Salina, Lottie Rasmll, 91, 10, 11. Redmond, 95, 116, 122. Monroe, 95, 116, 122.
Grant Falls, Grant Falls, 16, 16. Elco R. Nevada, 113, 18, 16. Magna, Ruth Burnett, 95, 12, 13. Erda, Harriet J. Griffith, 80, 9, 11. Murfreesboro, Vera R. River, 78, 21, 27. Ogden, Ada Mills, 80, 20, 25.
Pendleton Ridge, Pendleton Ridge, 17, 17. Murfreesboro, 76, 17, 22. Kimball, 73, 15, 21. Ogden, 80, 23, 29.
Kimball, Kimball, 11, 11. Clarkston, 100, 11, 11. Avon Bracer, 80, 18, 23. Downey, 100, 8, 8. Weston, 109, 48, 44. Downey Garver, 109, 10, 9. Logan City Maude, 100, 4, 4. Franklin, 100, 4, 4.
Ogden, Ogden, 12, 12. Cedar Alene, 75, 9, 12. Harrison, 119, 20, 17. Bonners, 76, 12, 16. North Spokane, 71, 71, 100.
Yulella, Yulella, 8, 8. Murfreesboro Stake, 88, 7, 7. Kindlett, 88, 88, 100.
Levan A. Bull, Levan A. Bull, 92, 92. Richfield, 200, 11, 5.
Joseph B. Smith, Joseph B. Smith, 86, 86. Cleeson, 86, 9, 11. Salina Shingle, 91, 10, 11. Lottie Rasmll, 95, 95, 100. Logan Gill, 95, 95, 100.
High W. Champion, High W. Champion, 75, 75. Grantsville, 119, 9, 8. Erda Green, 76, 20, 26. Logan, 76, 12, 16.
North, North, 88, 88. Trin F. Strope, 88, 88, 100. Ala. Richardson, 88, 88, 100.
Washington, Washington, 12, 12. Blackfoot, 92, 11, 12. Shelley, 200, 13, 7.
Blythe, Blythe, 14, 14. El Cajon, 86, 9, 11. Glendale Oregon, 91, 10, 11. San Bernardino, 95, 7, 7. Redondo, 95, 7, 7.




312
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Sunnydale, Sunnydale, 20, 20. Greeley O. Coe, 80, 16, 20. Grand Junction, 90, 28, 31.
Taylorsville, Taylorsville, 49, 49. Yuba G. Bass, 42, 45, 107. Salt Lake Sharp, 83, 70, 84.
Windham, Windham, 1243, 1243. Central Plain, Effie Nield, 88, 1067, 1212. Portland, Mary L. Gale, 128, 38, 30. Southern States Mission, Elma Andersen, 107, 203, 288. Alabama, Iris Martin, 110, 21, 19. Nashville, Nijuma A. Nesbitt, 92, 72, 78.
Central Florida, Central Florida, 16, 16. West Palm Beach, Elma Cary Lee, 113, 13, 12. Orlando, Lucille Johnson, 100, 85, 85. Winter Haven, Villa V. Harmer, 76, 9, 12. Winter Park, Bertha, 143, 247, 173.
Creve City, Creve City, 7, 7. Creve Coeur, M. E. Blaney, 140, 6, 4. North Lake, Dena Marie Morello, 60, 84, 140.
Jacksonville, Jacksonville, 21, 21. Miami, Lew Ray Thompson, 100, 21, 21. West Palm Beach, Joy Williams, 100, 17, 17. Lake Wales, 92, 112, 122. Pensacola, Ethel Brunson, 240, 13, 5. Tallahassee, Rosa M. Williams, 120, 20, 17. Wyoming, Elizabeth Wimmins, 110, 16, 15.
Montclair, Montclair, 24, 24. Oakland Richford, 100, 4, 4. Staten Island, 110, 16, 15. Jackson Borough, 78, 17, 22. Glen Morris, 78, 17, 22. Olivet, 85, 14, 16.
Pomona City, Pomona City, 20, 20. Alhambra, 75, 15, 20. Tennessee, Vinnie Houston, 190, 120, 63. Mobile, 90, 19, 21. Asheville, Hazel, 100, 30, 30. New Brooklyn, 128, 16, 13. Greenville, 100, 65, 65. Port Arthur, 92, 20, 22.
North Louisiana, North Louisiana, 11, 11. Shreveport, 127, 14, 11. Jackson, 85, 8, 8. Roll, 88, 8, 8. Monroe M. Chambers, 66, 7, 11. Robert Gulf Tide, 75, 60, 80. Baton Rouge, 110, 6, 5. Morgan City, 100, 9, 9. Cartoville South, 92, 12, 13.
Manhattan, Manhattan, 8, 8. South Louisiana, 75, 8, 11. Baton Rouge, 76, 60, 79. New Orleans, 110, 6, 5. Port Arthur, Ida, 100, 9, 9. Shreveport, 85, 11, 13. Hickston, 90, 11, 12.
Port Arthur, Port Arthur, 25, 25. Washington, 116, 29, 25. Houston, 100, 9, 9. Beaumont, Williams, 100, 9, 9.
Memphis, Memphis, 4, 4. Murfreesboro Richford, 110, 4, 4. Jackson Borough, 78, 17, 22. Memphis, 78, 17, 22.
Millard Richford, Millard Richford, 24, 24. Kanarra Rich Grove, 100, 4, 4. Hattiesburg Bro, 110, 16, 15. Memphis, 78, 17, 22. Jackson Lewis, 78, 17, 22. Alto Mar. Kums, 85, 14, 16.
West D. Chin, West D. Chin, 75, 75. Clearwater, 75, 15, 20. St. Pete, 90, 18, 20. St. Petersburg, 78, 16, 21. Mobile, 100, 18, 18. Alto Rich, 128, 16, 13. Baltimore Beach, 100, 65, 65. Pinellas City, 92, 20, 22.
North Central Texas, North Central Texas, 7, 7. Forth Worth, 66, 6, 9. El Paso, 12, 12, 100.
Mrs. Willie Moore, Mrs. Willie Moore, 127, 127. Dallas, 85, 14, 11. Bell, 88, 8, 8. Fort Worth Champers, 66, 7, 11. Robert Gulf Tide, 75, 60, 80. City, 110, 6, 5. Houston, 100, 9, 9. Cartoville, 92, 12, 13.
Kanarra V. Margie, Kanarra V. Margie, 86, 86. Hattiesburg Bros, 100, 6, 6. wand, 12, 12, 100.
Mrs. Willie Moore, Mrs. Willie Moore, 127, 127. Bell, 85, 14, 11. Gulf Tide, 66, 7, 11. Robert, 75, 60, 80. Memphis, 110, 6, 5. Williams, 100, 9, 9. Tampa, 92, 12, 13.
Danita F. Diaz, Danita F. Diaz, 116, 116. Washington, 29, 29. Williams, 100, 100, 100. Manila, 9, 9, 100.

313
Relief Society, Magazine Representative, Subscription Percent, Relief Society Members, Relief Society Secretary
Georgia, Georgia, 50, 50. Atlanta, Sidney C. Veasie, 76, 113, 149. Savannah, Fanny Bonnell, 75, 30, 40. Brunswick, Ida Jackson, 118, 25, 21. Augusta Point, 17, 17, 100.
Mississippi, Mississippi, 137, 137. Jackson, John H. Tanner, 79, 108, 137. Port Gibson, Cora McDonald, 170, 75, 44. Clinton, William Pierce, 100, 112, 112. Gulfport, Stella Holmes, 100, 78, 78. Laurel, Mrs. Annie Reames, 100, 8, 8. Jackson, John Hill, 100, 2, 2. Meridian, Otha E. Gill, 76, 9, 12. McComb, 76, 6, 8. Hattiesburg, 75, 8, 11. Brookhaven, 75, 6, 8. Vicksburg, 88, 7, 8.
New Orleans, New Orleans, 8, 8. Baton Rouge, Isabelle A. Lowery, 75, 6, 8. New Orleans, Beatrice Clay, 87, 29, 33.
North Mississippi, North Mississippi, 4, 4. Corinth, E. Iantha M. Dunton, 100, 4, 4. Columbus, Smith, 125, 20, 16. West Point, Velma Burton, 120, 20, 17. Meridian, Linnie Beckham, 120, 35, 29. Jackson, 126, 10, 8. Biloxi, Elizabeth Williams, 126, 14, 11. Moss Point, 87, 24, 28.
South Carolina, South Carolina, 97, 97. Greenville, Blanche M. Pinkston, 90, 37, 41. Columbia, Florence Cunningham, 100, 47, 47. Charleston, Beatrice Heyward, 93, 25, 27. Sumter, Rosa Gregory, 80, 20, 25. Orangeburg, Mary Marni, 89, 28, 31. Conway, 80, 24, 30.
South Florida, South Florida, 7, 7. Bartolarnache, 100, 47, 47. Miami, Rosa, 91, 25, 27. Naples, John Weaver, 120, 20, 17. Punta Gorda, Carrie Keel, 100, 77, 77. Key West, 28, 28, 100.
South Georgia, South Georgia, 30, 30. Waycross, Georgia Mani, 80, 30, 38. Millen, 80, 30, 38.
West Virginia, West Virginia, 23, 23. San Antonio, 80, 23, 29. Victoria, Hazel, 78, 18, 23. Houston, Winifred Gordon Hirt, 100, 95, 95. Beaumont, 84, 16, 19. Huntington Hirt, 100, 12, 12.
Western States, Western States, 171, 171. Albuquerque, 80, 127, 159. Denver, 79, 31, 39.
Baggs, Baggs, 19, 19. Casper, 120, 19, 16. Casper City, 121, 28, 23. Basin, 138, 2, 1. Worland, 120, 34, 28. Gillette, 100, 24, 24. Cowley, 76, 16, 21. Lovell, 86, 12, 14.
Central Springs, Central Springs, 14, 14. Greeley Springs, 100, 14, 14. Grand Junction, 100, 65, 65. Fort Collins, 91, 20, 22. Laramie, 97, 13, 13. Lusk, 97, 13, 13.
Morristown, Morristown, 12, 12. Nonn Fisher, 75, 8, 11. Elizabethton, 135, 9, 7. Lebanon, 110, 12, 11.
Scottsville, Scottsville, 13, 13. Silver City, 77, 10, 13. Carlsbad, 100, 32, 32. Rowe, 137, 38, 28.
Payne W. Hazel, Payne W. Hazel, 78, 78. Alfred Miller, 80, 18, 23. Beaumont, 84, 16, 19. Memphis Stewart, 100, 95, 95. Dallas M. Curtis, 100, 12, 12. Leech J. Hunter, 80, 127, 159. Margret Hirt, 79, 31, 39. Annie, 120, 19, 16. Emma McNeal, 121, 28, 23. Salt Lake Truett, 138, 2, 1. Alfred Stewart, 120, 24, 24. Alto Rich, 100, 34, 28. Ethel O. Browm, 76, 16, 21. Gina Brown, 86, 12, 14. Pinellas D. Sproul, 100, 65, 65. Elise, 91, 20, 22. Viola Van Walker, 97, 13, 13. Glee O. West, 100, 14, 14. Anna Louisa, 100, 14, 14. Ural Haxe, 97, 13, 13. Calhoun, Thornton, 75, 8, 11. Cira Williamson, 135, 9, 7. Sydia Hansel, 110, 12, 11. Louisiana, 77, 10, 13. Florence Ridge, 100, 32, 32. Gatlin, 137, 38, 28. Leanna H. Heney, 137, 38, 28. Rowe, 137, 38, 28.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD Vera W. Pohlman Former General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appeal in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CAMPAIGNS
Cottonwood Stake
THIS stake has demonstrated that success may be attained by working steadily toward a goal. In 1942, this stake's rate of Magazine subscriptions was among the lowest in the Church?26 per cent. Stake and ward Relief Society workers, determined to increase the rate, made the greatest numerical increase in the Church during 1943 (from 211 to 580 subscriptions) but, nevertheless, fell slightly short of the honor roll with 71 per cent of their members as subscribers. They still persisted in their efforts, and now appear on the honor roll for 1944 with a stake rate of 90 per cent, and with 6 of 8 wards represented.
Merle S. Muir, stake counselor in charge of the Magazine, wrote of this accomplishment:
"It is a satisfying climax to a huge effort and one of which we are very proud. This happens to be the first time in the history of our stake that we have been fortunate enough to achieve the honor roll. We hope it won't be the last. You will notice our subscription rate is 90 per cent for the stake and that 5 wards have over 100 per cent. All credit is due our ward Magazine representatives and officers for their effort and support. We found them willing and enthusiastic workers, and I'm sure the satisfaction they feel in their ward and stake report repays them for their efforts. As a stake we appreciate beyond words their efforts.
"Our biggest desire now is that each will read and enjoy her Magazine and realize the spiritual and temporal help it gives. As a stake we express our appreciation to the Magazine staff for the splendid Magazine they give us. We enjoy and appreciate the privilege of working in the Relief Society and the association it gives us."
Zion Park Stake
JESSIE H. GIBSON, stake Magazine representative, wrote last January commending the ward Magazine representatives and officers for their efforts which placed this stake on the 1944 honor roll with a rate of 91 per cent. Five of the 7 wards of this stake also appear on the honor roll with high rates.
Her letter continues: "We feel especially proud of the record of Della Hardy, Magazine representative of Springdale Ward, who has placed the Magazine in every home in her community whether members of our Church or not. Several Magazines were also sent to other communities as Christmas presents. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 315 She exceeded her good 1943 rate of 86 per cent by the exceptional rate of 154 per cent for 1944. We feel that her leadership deserves a little special mention and hope it will inspire other Magazine representatives to try a little harder next year." Boise Stake CAROL R. FLAKE, president of * the Boise Fourth Ward Relief Society, wrote last August: "At the suggestion of Dorothy Clapp Robinson, counselor in the Boise Stake Relief Society and supervisor of the Magazine representatives, I am sending in this account of our 'Dollar Day' which launched our Magazine campaign. Lillis Me-lander is our representative. "A large group of our sisters met in the pleasant surroundings of Elm Grove Park where a program was presented featuring the importance of the Magazine to the entire family. Talks on the subject. Things I Like About the Magazine' gave interesting and varied reasons for having it in the home. Our stake Relief Society president, Josephine Anderson, and Counselor Dorothy Clapp Robinson, commended us for our achievement of 104 per cent in the 1943 campaign and urged us to include at least 6 subscriptions this year to be sent to our Church missionaries. Accordingly, our members deposited voluntary contributions in an attractive dish which was afterwards awarded as prize to the one guessing nearest to the correct total of $8.14 which was received. "The program was interspersed with the singing of several original Magazine pep songs composed by various members, including the following: HERE IS OUR MAGAZINE Irene Read Tune "Idaho" (State song) You've heard of the wonders of our Magazine And all of the good it can do. It educates, stimulates, brings out the best But not half has been told to you. Chorus So here is our Magazine, Winning its way to the top. Once you've subscribed it will always come, You never will let it stop. You will read it, morn, noon, and night. Keep it in sight?'twill make your life bright. You will love it, its praises you'll sing, Sing of our Magazine. Our agent will take your subscription today. And benefits soon you will glean. When your family looks forward each month for the day When the postman brings their Magazine/ I'LL SUBSCRIBE FOR ANOTHER YEAR Edith Mathews Tune "Auld Lang Syne" Is my subscription up to date? I surely want to know. I cannot miss a single book Because I need it so. Our Magazine, our Magazine, Its pages I hold dear, I need its influence in our home? I'll subscribe for another year!" As indicated by the foregoing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1945 report, the Boise Stake Relief Society officers suggested that each ward contribute 6 gift subscriptions for women in foreign missions, and some of the wards exceeded this assignment. The stake board itself set the example, sending in seven gift subscriptions, one in the name of each ward of the stake. This is another stake which exceeded its good 1943 rate of 80 per cent by a 1944 rate of 95 per cent for the stake as a whole. Five of the 7 wards appear on the honor roll, all of them with rates well above those of last year, four of them over 100 per cent. Western States Mission LUCEAL R. CURTIS, recently released Relief Society president of this mission, wrote in September 1944: "Since March 17 our mission has had as one of its projects the binding of Relief Society Magazines. One Relief Society now has a complete set of the Magazines bound and in its library. Two other Societies have 7 bound volumes and a great number have 3. These Magazines were bound to celebrate my three years in the mission. When they had them bound they sent, on July 15, a birthday card stating that they now had in their libraries bound volumes of the Magazine for 1941-42-43." For the third successive year this mission has achieved a place on the honor roll, this year with a higher rate of 81 per cent, and with nineteen of thirty-five branches represented, thirteen of them with rates of 100 per cent or over, including Sheridan Branch with the exceptional rate of 157 per cent. Relief Society Magazine OPENS THE DOOR SPIRITUAL LITERACY SOCIAL KNOWLEDGE Magazine Campaign Poster, West Ensign Ward, Ensign Stake. Luendah E. Hagen was the Magazine representative of this ward. Ensign Stake LEONE H. ELIASON, stake Magazine representative of this stake which appears on the honor roll with a stake rate of 78 per cent and with four of six wards represented, suggested that each of the ward representatives make a poster for display in each Relief Society room. Each poster was to be original, to give some indication of the value derived from the lessons and other material published in the Magazine, to create interest in the Magazine among non-subscribers, and to serve as a constant reminder to subscribers to renew promptly. At a party held at the close of the campaign month, October in this stake, each ward representative was asked to bring her poster, and the display created much interest. The NOTES FROM THE FIELD 317 poster of the West Ensign Ward, conceded to be the best, is here reproduced. It aided the ward Magazine representative, Luendah E. Hagen, to reach the rate of 82 per cent with which this ward appears on the honor roll. A close second in popularity was the colorful poster of the South Twentieth Ward, depicting a cottage framed in trees, with a spacious lawn in front allowing for well-placed flower beds and borders. As subscriptions were received, the garden bloomed with tiny, bright-colored straw flowers, artistically glued in place. The energetic subscription gardener, Leone Seiter, appears on the honor roll with 131 subscriptions to her credit and a rate of 102 per cent. A feature of the party for ward representatives was the surprise demonstration of selling the Magazine which was given by Hazel Spencer of the North Eighteenth Ward (on the honor roll with 140 subscriptions, 79 per cent), with stake Relief Society president, Alice B. Steinicke, as the potential subscriber. Sister Eliason concludes that some of the qualifications of a successful Magazine representative are enthusiasm, willingness to serve, cheerfulness, and familiarity with Magazine content in order to be able to acquaint others with its value. MAGAZINE GIFT SUBSCRIPTIONS In 1944, as in previous years, many gift subscriptions were received at the Magazine office from individuals and from ward and stake Relief Societies for distribution at the discretion of the Magazine office. These gift subscriptions are received with great appreciation by those to whom they are sent, principally missionaries and officers of new mission branch Relief Societies who may not have been able to subscribe immediately themselves. During 1944, these generous and thoughtful gifts aggregated $100 and came from all the wards of Boise Stake, Shelley First and Fifth Wards of the Shelley Stake, Worland and Byron Wards of Big Horn Stake, Tremon-ton Ward of Bear River Stake, Farmington Ward of South Davis Stake, and from Mt. Jordan stake board and the following wards of Mt. Jordan Stake?Crescent, Draper First and Second, Sandy Second and Third. COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES I regret very much to inform you this will be my last year as Magazine representative in Twin Groves Ward, Yellowstone Stake, as we have left the ward and moved into town. I never have done anything in the Church I have loved and enjoyed more, and my prayers and wishes will always be that Twin Groves will never fail to subscribe 100 per cent for this wonderful Magazine. We have 32 members enrolled in our ward... With 42 subscriptions or 131 per cent, the largest I have ever obtained and it really gives me a great thrill?Pearl Rigby, St. Anthony, Idaho. By the end of the year the rate for this ward was 145 per cent. I did my best to keep my promise to you. The sisters were very good to cooperate with me. I worked on the husbands, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1945 daughters, and sons the week before Mother's Day which helped a lot. Their faces would light up as if a great load had been lifted when I suggested the Magazine as a gift to mother. They would take the receipt and enclose it with their Mother's Day card. I work from eight to twelve hours a day in our grocery store besides caring for my three children and my home, so I can't do much Church work at the present time. I feel, however, I am doing a little something by getting The Relief Society Magazine into the homes. One of the inclosed subscriptions is a gift from myself to a friend who is not a member and I hope the Magazine will help to do missionary work.? Irene Hardy, Susanville, California. This Magazine representative appears on the honor roll with a rate of 90 per cent. COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE READERS Inclosed please find one dollar for subscription for the Magazine. It might interest you to know that I have been a constant subscriber for the Magazine ever since it was first published and still enjoy reading it at the age of 85 years.?Salt Lake City, Utah. I am sending in one dollar for renewal of my Relief Society Magazine subscription. I enjoy the Magazine ever so much as we are now so far from our nearest Church that it is just impossible for us to attend. Fifty miles is quite a long drive on our present gas ration and therefore I enjoy my Magazine even more than most. ?Healdsburg, California. Thanks for a good Magazine that is still the same in price and value, in spite of high prices and shortage of material and help.?Snowville, Utah. Have neglected writing to you and letting you know how much I thought of Thelma Ireland's poem "Moonlight on the Mountains." I have it framed and also it was read at the Woman's Club, and the P. E. O. Of this city. We thought it fine ?Creighton, Nebraska. Because of illness I have neglected sending in my renewal to our Magazine, but I won't miss a single copy of it. At this time I wish to express my appreciation of the wonderful way you are editing it? such clean contents from cover to cover? such advice, comfort and inspiration. It is a beacon light to me and an anchor to my soul.?Robin, Idaho. You'll never know how I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine every month. Thank you so much.?Hondo, California. I thank the General Board, the editors and contributors, and all who are concerned with the making of the Magazine for the beautiful things that have come to me through its pages.?Helper, Utah. I enjoy my copies of the Magazine very much and shall continue to be a pleased subscriber. You are doing a very good work.?Logan, Utah. Just a brief word of appreciation for the Magazine. I have taken it from the first year and enjoy it more each issue. Thank you again for a fine and uplifting publication.?Charlotte B. Davies. I am just writing you a few lines to let you know how much I have enjoyed my Magazine. Never in my life have I gotten more good or consolation out of a book. I hope others enjoy theirs like I do mine.?Bremerton, Washington. I just want to thank you for the wonderful little Magazine. It is such a help to us in these awful days of war and I enjoy reading it after the day's work is done. What a wonderful testimony it brings? it strengthens my testimony of the gospel. Inclosed is one dollar to pay another year's subscription.?Boise, Idaho. The Magazine is a great comfort and companion to me in my loneliness. I have belonged to the Relief Society for about NOTES FROM THE FIELD 319 fifty years for which I am very grateful and proud-North Hollywood, California. We are a very young branch but are following the lessons and are thrilled with them. Words cannot express how we appreciate our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It is inspirations.-Spokane, Washington. My husband is a splendid booster for the Magazine. We read it together and he likes it as well as any other magazine he reads he reads?Pasadena, California. COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE WRITERS I can't remember whether or not I wrote you concerning the contest poems and stories this year. I thought the poems were exceptionally good. Mrs. Crawford's so helpful, timely, and with her usual lovely spirit showing through; Mrs. Coles with her high grade poetry and high emotional quality; and Mrs. Miner with her abundant faith Ogden, Utah. I am always very proud to publish in The Relief Society Magazine. ?Salt Lake City. You present the material so attractively it's always a great satisfaction to me to have a poem published in your Magazine. ?Silverdale, Washington. For some time now I have been wanting to write to you about the Magazine. There have been so many things lately that I have enjoyed.... I liked the story "Mama's Boy." It carries such a wonderful message without seeming to preach, besides it is well written. I think we all enjoy our preaching better when it is hidden rather than held up to view?in stories I mean. I always enjoy those child stories of Olive Woolley Burt's.... The series of articles about painters by Mrs. Home have been especially pleasing to me. I had no idea we (the Church) had so many women who have distinguished themselves in that line. I liked the story of the Big Horn Basin, too.... The poets in this part of Idaho appreciate the market you give them. With all good wishes for your continued success.?Boise, Idaho. Ten Miles to Calico (Concluded from page 291) ?Five miles to calico! Five miles to calico!" Then she laughed. ?Ten miles to calico! Ten miles to calico!" What did it matter that she'd have to go to town twice for it? Her calico was in the store, waiting. She was going to look beautiful, like a daffodil! For Frank! Now she would walk home as fast as she could until the last mile. Then she'd run. So ma could have her caster set in the middle of the table while they ate supper. (The End) MORNING Susa Gould Walker A quivering stillness? The warbling of a wren; The fresh, sweet scent of dew-drenched lilac blooms. A smile, and two blue eyes Above a crib, and then My life made sweet, as sunshine floods the rooms. All-Year Care of the Rose Beds (Concluded from page 286) protection is seldom needed for roses in the Salt Lake valley, but in colder localities the plants must be protected.
The best protection is a mound of earth applied over each plant after freezing weather has arrived. This should be kept at hand ready to apply, manure can then be used to fill in the space between, but should not be applied directly over the plant during winter months. In very cold sections where the temperatures stay below zero for long periods, it is well to use additional protection of branches of trees, shrubs, corn stalks or other loose material on top of the mound of earth and manure.
And so we come to the end of the story. Does this sound so very formidable? When once these simple tasks are learned, they become a pleasure, for their rewards are so great. Can one measure such small undertakings against the privilege of plucking flowers of such perfection and beauty as the rose! Can one coldly calculate a few hours of effort scattered over the year when they bring us roses to cheer and comfort, to speak their message of beauty and love!
A SOLDIER'S TRIBUTE TO MOTHER May H. Marsh They tell me, Mother dear, that when you bore me, For days and nights so near death's door you lay. You passed, dear, through the valley of the shadow, And no price seemed too great for you to pay. All through my baby days you watched and nurtured. And with your help I learned your name to lisp. When e'er I stumbled you were there to help me. My childish hurts were healed with just a kiss. I had such faith in you, my angel Mother, And it was you who taught me faith in God, That he would guide my steps if I but trusted. And give me strength the dangerous paths to trod. Those baby days and years have all passed, Mother, The boy you watched has now to manhood grown. The call has come to join the world's great conflicts. And fight for you and liberty and home. If I am called to pass through that same valley, That your life might be happier and free. May God make me, like you, brave and triumphant. To pay, in part, your sacrifice for me. IF it is a National Bible It is the Beloved KING JAMES VERSION FOR years NATIONAL has featured the authorized King res Version exclusively it is the most beautiful, most inspiring translation For years NATIONAL featured the authorized King James Version exclusively... It is the most beautiful, most inspiring translation. NATIONAL BIBLES SINCE 1863... AT YOUR BOOKSTORE MUSIC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY BLESS THIS HOUSE 15c HOMING?Del Riego 15c MY OWN AMERICA?Wrubel. 20c LITTLE OLD GARDEN...15c HOME?Van Steeden 15c AMERICAN PRAYER 15c Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount, plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City Good News For Bible Students! We can now supply these excellent helps: The Graphic Bible by Lewis Brown $1.50 Cruden's Bible Concordance $2.50 Dummelow's One Volume Commentary $3.00 Smith's Bible Dictionary $2.00 Irwin's Bible Commentary $2.50 Hurlbut's Bible Atlas $3.50 Historical Atlas of the Holy Land $1.00 Treasures from the Bible $2.50 A Visit to the Holy Land by Thomas E. Romney $2.50 and BIBLES, a good stock at last at prices $1.50, $3.00, $4.00, $4.50, $5.00, $6.00, $8.00 and $10.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" When Baying Mention Relief Society Magazine and ENJOYING LIFE OVER FIFTY AND ENJOYING LIFE THE OUTCOME OF A BENEFICIAL INCOME BENEFICIAL INSURANCE COMPANY Home Office ? Beneficial Life Building Salt Lake City 1. Utah HEBER J. Grant. President 