Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF CENTERVILLE (UTAH): I think language will fail me, but still enough can be said to encourage the sisters in their noble work. In the language of scripture, to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, to nurse and administer to the sick embraces the highest point of the moral law that can be expected of humanity; the fact of which, is so well acknowledged by all sects, all creeds, and all people whether Christian or barbarian... And woman has done her work so well that it really appears to be one of the greatest essentials of human happiness... No wonder that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize the Relief Society, as he saw how much more good could be done in a united capacity —John Wayman UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB: We do not limit our membership, one of the primary objects of our organization being to encourage young writers and cultivate all their literary possibilities.... Although many of the results would not perhaps shine with Shakespearean brilliancy yet we have listened to many choice thoughts that would otherwise never have had birth.... Our subjects for consideration and discussion have been historical, biographical, scientific, poetical, and political... —Dr. Ellis R. Shipp JUNE O, how we long to climb those hills, And quaff from out the sparkling rills, The honeyed nectar of our youth; For there it flows in limpid streams, Of which our fancy only dreams, Springing from wells of living truth —E. B. W. THE WORLD IN COMMOTION: Looking at the events transpiring around the world today, one must necessarily feel that with all the boasted knowledge of this century of civilization, the hidden paths of wisdom are obscure, and only found by a few, who look upward for light and search after eternal truth, as the prophets of old, and who were despised and scoffed at, but whose words were revered by later generations, and if one would profit by such lessons he must beseech the Lord in all humility for guidance —Fditorial GRANDMOTHERS: I hope you will all agree with the little girl who said she thought grandmothers were "a good plan." It ought to be so, for one generation is lifted on the shoulders of the one that goes before it. I have felt lifted up and inspired by the good deeds of my ancestors. —Julia Ward Howe ARMENIAN WOMEN: The Armenian women as a tule are fine looking with intelligent faces and womanly bearing... As they increase in years their intelligence and good looks become more manifest. —Phoebe C. Young Page 372 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, took part on two panels at the National Association of Practical Nurse Education meetings, in Chicago in May, and attended meetings of the American Mothers Committee, Inc., of which she is a board member, in New York City. UELLA ADAMS DALTON, Parowan, Utah, has been selected as Utah's Mother of the Year. Mrs. Dalton, mother of nine children, has been a teacher, missionary, seamstress, writer, actress, and housewife. Mrs. Estella Brown Harmon, Afton, Wyoming, also a Latter-day Saint, and mother of eleven children, was awarded this distinction by her State. Mrs. Dalton and Mrs. Harmon will attend the meeting of the "Mothers" in New York City, where the American Mother of the Year will be selected. ARGARET TRUMAN, gifted daughter of former President Harry S. Truman and Elizabeth Wallace 'Truman, was married in April at Independence, Missouri, to Clifton E. Daniel, Jr., a New York newspaper man, formerly of Zebulon, North Carolina. Mrs. Daniel expects to continue with her career, but will not let it interfere with her husband's.