WHEN MOTHER'S REPUTATION WAS AT STAKE 383 he came to the door, then run as fast as I could until I was out of breath. He was a small, quick man, with reddish unruly hair and a generous moustache of the same hue, and I always pictured him pursuing me with these flowing in the wind, but I hadn't the courage to look back to alleviate my fears. LATE het fall word came to us that Mr. Olsen was ill. Mother's indignation melted at once, and she ordered my brother to hitch the horse to the buggy. "I must go to him, even if he doesn't like me," she said, busily. Tying on a clean apron and gathering her supplies, while giving my sister instructions for taking charge at home. "I can't leave an old man alone with only a boy to care for him; it just isn't neighborly." So, laden with home remedies and more food, she and I set forth. When we reached our desiination, Mother's steps were firm and resolute as she marched without hesitance to the door. Mune were timid and dragging, as I followed behind, my arms holding, with reluctance, a home-pressed cheese and a dressed stewing hen. We found Mr. Olsen ill with a bad cold. He was too sick to object to Mother's ministrations, which she assumed at once, making him clean and comfortable and applying the remedies of pioneer life. While he slept and the chicken cooked, she cleaned the house — with some help from me, ironed shirts, and then sat down to sew on needed buttons. Mr. Olsen awakened in the late afternoon, feeling much better. He looked at Mother strangely for a few minutes, while a tear slid slowly down his roughened face and nestled in his graying moustache. "You are a good, kind woman," he said. "T am a mean and foolish old man. I quit for speaking to my neighbors because they are too good to me and I do nutting in return.. That is not the vay to show I am grateful. I vas so wrong. I vill do better." — Mother smiled at him. "You were a foolish one," she said, as she arranged the tempting tray of food before him. "Don't you know it makes us happy to help you?" She hesitated, at a loss for words. "But, tell me " Her face flushed a little, "How could you call a cow Cora?" The old man grinned and said nothing for a moment, while his moustache moved rhythmically up and down. "Oh, those cows!" he chuckled. "May, she is the bossy vun, alvays throwing her head and chasing the others. Dottie, she is the so stubborn, selfish vun — she holds up her milk; half of the time she only gives me half of her milk. But that Cora." A fond light crept into his eyes, "She is the good and generous vun. All that she has is mine." I glanced up at Mother. She wore her "all's right with the world" expression. Her good name was intact. She and the cow were kindred spirits. Apparent, also, was a decided twinkle in her eye, which was a probable indication that she could now laugh with Father over this one. I, too, was feeling happy, with visions of little sacks of candy again. Cliff Flomes of the Ancients Nell Murbarger ANISHED civilizations and \) ruined cities of the Old World undoubtedly represent the ne plus ultra of archeological significance, but nowhere in the world are there known cliff dwellings of larger extent, or more elaborately constructed, than those found in our own Western United States. Preeminent among those cliffside dwellings are the ancient apartment houses now preserved in Mesa Verde National Park, in southwestern Colorado. Discovered to science in 1888 and granted national park status fifty years ago, the seventh to be established among our twenty-eight national parks, Mesa Verde has since played host to hundreds of thousands of persons who have gazed upon her fine, old ruins in amazement, and have carried away with them a greater realization of America's antiquity than they had ever before known. On this well-forested tableland, nearly a mile and a half above sea level, and 2000 feet above the surrounding Mancos Valley, men were living possibly as long ago as the beginning of the Christian era! As long as 1200 years ago, these Mesa Verde dwellers were tilling fields of corn, squash, and beans; were fashioning handsome baskets and decorated pottery, and weaving fine cotton cloth. And _ nearly 1,000 years ago, these same ancient dwellers began construction of the inPage 384 credible series of stone-masonry apartment houses of which the largest and finest was magnificent Cliff Palace, 300 feet in length, with 202 dwelling rooms situated on eight floor levels, plus twenty-three kivas, or ceremonial chambers! In addition to unknown numbers of these great cliff cities, which were built inside open-faced caves in the nearly sheer walls of the canyons, the ancient inhabitants of Mesa Verde had built plateau villages, as well. No one knows how many ruins of both types are situated within the park boundaries, but the number of major cliff ruins has been loosely estimated between 300 and 400; and as each of these ruins formerly sheltered from a few to several hundred Indian inhabitants, the aggregate population of the area must have been considerable. After the ancient Mesa Verdens had resided in their pit houses on the plateau, and in their great cave palaces for 1,000 years or more, evil days fell upon their colony. 'The year 1276, or near that time, according to archeological calculations, saw the beginning of a twenty -fouryear drought cycle. With not enough rain falling to maintain life in their fields, to supply drinking water to wild game, or to develop the nutritious kernels in pine seeds and acorns, hunger came to stalk the land; and as springs and other water sources disappeared, the people of Mesa Verde began