Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in May) The Parables of the Savior A. Parable of the Leaven.

"Another parable spake he unto them: The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened." Matt. 13:33, The power of a right idea is invincible, whether it is put into the mind of the child or the youth or the adult; silently it works as the leaven in the meal, fulfilling the poetic declaration that: "Truth crushed to earth will rise again The eternal years of God are hers; While error wounded writhes in pain, And dies amid her worshipers." Overcome Evil With Good.?The idea contained in this gem of thought is leaven that is working in the mind of the individual, in the mind of the nation, in the mind of the world.

It will work on until the whole is leavened.

The universal uplift and the triumph of this idea is inevitable.

As an apt illustration of the operation of faith leaven in the mind of a child, the student is cited to a poem, The Joyful Truth, in the February issue of the Relief Society Magazine.

B. The Hidden Treasure.

"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." This parable is recorded by Matthew only, 13:44, This parable seemingly has one great object, the teaching of the paramount value of the kingdom of God.

It is not a lesson in ethics, but one in the choice of values.

The finding of the treasure was a source of joy, and the appreciation of the value awakens in the finder a determination to have legal possession of it even at the cost of all his previous possessions, Almost universally, converts to the gospel gladly set aside their old notions, be they ever so dear, to obtain the blessings of the Kingdom of Heaven; and moreover, they will sacrifice all.

Earthly possessions if necessary, and their experience is that they 
 find the highest joy in this one possession?the gospel with its testimony and privileges.

What are dollars and cents to the Latter-day Saint father and mother in comparison to missionary experiences for their boy and girl?

All the other members of the family are willing to forego the comforts of life for the brother or sister to pass on in the kingdom, and the young man willingly interrupts a career "to be about his Father's business." All who share in these sacrifices are sharers in the purchase of the field where the hidden treasure is.

To have the field of labor offered by the church is to own the hidden treasurer.

Service in the kingdom makes us a part of the kingdom, and the kingdom a part of us; through it we are in the kingdom and the kingdom in us.

The Parable of the Pearl of Great Price "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." Matt. 13:45-46. "In our own country we generally estimate the amount of a man's wealth by the size of his bank account, by the extensive-. Ness of his landed property, the sort of a house he lives in, and the manner in which he extends his hospitalities or his entertainments.

In our Lord's time and country a different standard obtained.

There you could not always tell how much a man was worth by looking at his clothes or at the house he lived in.

You enter a house of clay walls and a roof thatched with straw or reeds, you find an ill-dressed.

Man sitting there amid the coarsest furniture on a piece of carpet which forms his seat by day and bed by night; and yet that man may be the wealthiest person you have ever seen.

He has his wealth invested in jewels, and for a very good reason.

In oriental countries sudden invasions often take place and great rebellions and revolutions frequently arise where cruel tyrants oppress their people; so in order that a man's wealth may be more easily hidden, or securely removed in case of flight, it is in most cases put into the shape of jewels.

In this form, and carried about the person or hid in the tresses of a woman's hair, great fortunes have often been carried from place to place in the East.

If we remember this fact it will help us to understand the value which God puts upon his people in calling them his jewels and to see the full meaning of the figure which Jesus used to represent the blessings of his salvation, as one 'pearl of great price,' which all other property and jewels should be sold to obtain." Hollman's Bible Commentary.

This parable differs from the parable of the hidden treasure in that the treasure seeker was prospecting in the open field of nature, in the one instance; while in the other instance the man was looking for treasures previously possessed by some one else.

Both parables teach the lesson that the Kingdom of God cannot be obtained either by partial payment or half-heartedness.

The price in both cases is the giving up of one's whole self.

In this parable the merchantman has been a dealer in gems, in search of goodly pearls.

The price of the pearl is all the other pearls; it is the all of the great and the all of the small alike, and nothing less and nothing more.

The purchase of this pearl can not be made through any sort of an Ananias and Sapphira deal.

The first great essential is honesty of heart, a yearning from within, proclaiming the necessity for endlessness of existence, and then he reads, "that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16, And then there comes to him the inspiration of the Almighty, declaring in favor of the yearning within and in favor of the words of Christ.

The truth-seeker places a higher value on the divine declaration than he does on the theoretical findings and willingly gives them all for the revelations of God, attested by his individual testimony. 1. Quote Lowell on the power of truth as a leavening force. 2, Wherein is the overcoming of evil with good the kingdom of heaven in action? 3. Read in the class the poem that illustrates the planting of faith leaven in the mind of the child. 4. What is a joyous sacrifice?

Illustrate.. 5. Read or relate the story of Ananias and Sapphira. 6. What is the most important lesson to be learned by the parable of the hidden treasure?

LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) 
 LESSON III Literature (Third week in May) JAMEs Russell Lowely (Continued) We have read that the great educator, Horace Mann, "'championed the sacreligious use of Mr. Auburn cemetery, where persons were buried with no reference to which way they would face | when Gabriel blows his trumpet." This story reminds us of the distance between our time and the time when devout and sincere persons argued over trifles of that sort.

It also introduces to us the name of a cemetery a short distance from the heart of Cambridge, Massachusetts, where many persons of distinct achievement, in many lines, have found a last resting place.

Here Longfellow and Lowell are buried, and also the great actor, Edwin Booth.

Within the city of Cambridge, few places have attracted as much attention as have the homes of Longfellow and Lowell.

Already, in our lesson on Longfellow, we have devoted some space to the old Cragie house where the author of Paul Revere's Ride found a home.

This home had been purchased from its owner for Longfellow.

Lowell occupied the ancestral home of the Lowells, in Cambridge.

In the year 1904, it was our good fortune to visit the Lowell home, a frame house of three stories in height, painted buff, with windows and doors of white.

On the top story there were three windows, as also on the second story, but the third story contained a beautiful, old-fashioned arched door between the two windows.

The grounds were attractive in the highest degree, containing a goodly number of those lovely elms which have been for many years the pride of New England, and perhaps somewhat especially of Cambridge.

Grass, as well as flowers, that were often made to bloom in the poet's verses, were there in great abundance.

The care-taker made us very much at home, and as we left he picked a fringed gentian and presented it to us?the little gentian of the poet's verses.

By the time you come to this lesson, the dandelion will be in bloom.

Place on the stand, if possible, a bunch of dandelions and read to the class Lowell's famous lines to the dandelion.

You will find no better illustration in literature of the ability of a great mind and a great heart to find beauty in the commonest things of nature.

In the year 1847, the year that the pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley, Lowell parted with his first child, a little girl called Blanche.

In the year 1849, he stood in his home looking out of the window, across to Mt.

Auburn cemetery, on a typical winter day in New England.

With the thought of the little grave covered with snow, he wrote the following lines: "The snow had begun in the gloaming, _ And busily all the night Had been heaping field and highway With a silence deep and white.

Every pine and fir and hemlock Wore ermine too dear for an earl, And the poorest twig on the elm-tree Was egded inch deep with pearl.

From sheds new-roofed with Carrara Came Chanticleer's muffled crow, The stiff rails were softened to swan's-down, And still fluttered down the snow.

I stood and watched by the window The noiseless work of the sky, And the sudden flurries of snow-birds, Like brown: leaves whirling by.

I thought of a mound in sweet Auburn Where a little headstone stood; How the flakes were folding it gently, ' As did robins the babes in the wood.

Up spoke our own little Mabel, Saying, "Father, who makes it snow?" And I told of the good All-Father Who cares for us here below.

Again I looked at the snow-fall, And thought of the leaden sky That arched o'er our first great sorrow, When that mound was heaped so high.

I remembered the gradual patience That fell from that cloud like snow, Flake by flake, healing and hiding The scar that renewed our woe.

And again to the child I whispered, "The snow that husheth all, Darling, the merciful Father Alone can make it fall!" Then, with eyes that saw not, I kissed her; And she, kissing back, could not know 'That my kiss was given to her sister, Folded close under deepening snow."