[Vol11 | March 1924 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Relief Society, the First Woman's Organization Alice Lou]
the Relief Society, a fact that suggests that we are within hailing distance of the century mark. The words "opportunity" and "responsibility" loom very large on our banner as we march along. It is a great privilege to have the opportunity to carry the gospel of Christ, and the gospel of culture, to every woman in the world who will accept of our offerings; and it is a source of increasing enlightenment and progress. But we are entrusted with this very responsibility. Well might we stagger under the load, were it not that, like Nephi of old, we believe that God will grant unto us strength according to our faith and diligence.
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman quite startled the public when she told them that nearly one-half of the world's power had been kept within four walls. She insisted that it be freed, stating that the best results would be accomplished if this mighty force were turned loose in public life.
An incident in the recent history of Chicago is to the point. A movement for a five-million-dollar bond issue was launched. The men wanted the issue for the making of a zoological garden, and, in keeping with their desires, all the big papers of Chicago were supporting their project. A woman connected with the Chicago schools chanced to know that the room provided for the school children of that city was wholly inadequate, consequently she suggested that a counter campaign be inaugurated for a five-million-dollar bond issue for the building of school houses, and that the slogan of the campaign be, "Monkeys or Kids." The school people had no opportunity for publicity through the daily papers, so that they had to be contented with such publicity as might be afforded apart from the press. They tagged people on the streets; had processions of the children, in which they carried banners, setting forth their desires. The thing "took like wildfire." Everywhere, in the streets, on the cars, in the shops, everybody was asking everybody else, "Who are you for, monkeys or kids?" Election day came. The issue for the school bond went over two to one, and the issue for the zoo was defeated two to one. Had there not been a woman in Chicago who knew the school situation, and in addition to that, knew how to make the school situation known to others, in all probability the children would have continued to suffer for housing; the bond issue would have been put over for the zoo, and the monkeys would have won the day.
Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University
Sixty-six stakes were represented at the leadership week this year, marking a considerable advancement over the attendance last year. Everywhere one looked Relief Society workers were in evidence. We feel sure that we shook hands with not fewer than twenty stake presidents, during this week, as well as other representatives. To be sure, the greater number of workers were from the nearby stakes, but it is surprising how widely distributed the representation was. One saw representatives one moment from Canada, another from Idaho, and so on, from Cache Valley to Box Elder, Tooele, Uintah, Tintic, South Sanpete and Panguitch, and many other stakes not mentioned that lie in between and beyond to the south.
The opinion is quite prevalent that this was the best leadership week that the institution has conducted. The General Board was represented by Counselors Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y. Robison, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds. In addition to lectures given by practically every member of the faculty, there were forty-two lecturers from the outside. It is felt that there was not so much visiting done this year as formerly, but that persons coming selected a group of courses for the week and attended each day.
Notable among the features of the week was the great number of paintings from Utah artists found in the halls and rooms of the plant. The music was of an exceptionally high order. In the evening entertainments the visitors came in contact with the drama, the pageant, chorus and orchestra music. The slogan of the week had been "Leadership for Community Soul Building," and everywhere the people in attendance found much food for their souls.
IT'S TIME FOR SPREADING CHEER By S. E. Kiser
It's time to be forsaking The old ways for the new; It's time to aid in making The orphan's hopes come true; The time is come for giving, Not roses to the dead, But courage to the living Whose eyes are full of dread.
