[Vol11 | March 1924 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial — The Relief Society Birthday]
winner is  now  met  not  only  in  terms  of  finances  or  relief.  The  em- 
phasis is  placed  on  the  human  elements  involved ;  on  the  value  of 
home  life,  on  the  need  of  giving  children  a  mother's  care,  on  the 
economy  and  training  children  for  future  usefulness,  and  on  the 
wisdom  of  safeguarding  a  family's  health. 
To  provide  such  a  comprehensive  plan  of  treatment  for  in- 
dividuals and  families  who  have  been  handicapped  and  burdened 
and  distressed  requires  some  community  organization.  The  state, 
private  societies  and  churches  have  long  felt  a  responsibility  to

108  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE    , 
care  for  the  unfortunate  by  providing  institutions  or  by  giving 
relief.  These  organizations  are  becoming  increasingly  conscious 
of  the  importance  of  the  task  of  dealing  with  social  problems. 
They  are  recognizing,  more  and  more,  that  the  guiding  of  human 
lives,  the  treatment  of  individuals  in  distress,  is  a  serious  under- 
taking, deserving  of  .study,  of  understanding,  and  of  intelligent 
cooperative  effort.  Reference'.  Dr.  Edward  T.  Devine,  Normal 
Life,  pages  160-165. 
QUESTIONS  AND  PROBLEMS 
1.  What  is  meant  by  group  improvement  programs?  Give 
examples. 
2.  Why  cannot  all  social  problems  be  solved  by  programs 
of  group  improvement?    What  else  is  needed? 
3.  Does  the  establishment  of  a  health  center  give  assurance 
that  all  who  could  be  benefited  by  the  center  are  receiving  its 
benefits?    What  service  is  needed  to  extend  its  benefits?    . 
4.  Discuss  school  and  chi1d  labor  legislation  as  group  im- 
provement and  relate  their  administration  to  individual  treatment. 
5.  What  are  the  functions  of  a  probation  officer  of  the 
juvenile  court? 
6.  Why  has  the  emphasis  in  dealing  with  families  whose 
income  is  not  adequate  been  changed  from  mere  relief  to  continued, 
understanding  service? 
TEACHERS'  TOPIC  FOR  APRIL 
THE  GOSPEL  IN  THE  HOME 
The  Restoration 
"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having 
the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth, 
and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people." — 
Revelations  14 :6. 
"But  in  the  last  days  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  the  mountain 
of  the  house  of  the  Lord  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the 
mountains,  and  it  shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills ;  and  people  shall 
flow  unto  it."— Micah  4:1. 
A.  The  Church  organized  at  Fayette,  Seneca  county,  New 
York,  April  6,  1830,  with  six  members. 
B.  Note  the  marvelous  and  steady  growth  of  the  Church 
throughout  the  years  as  a  fulfilment  of  promise  and  prophecy. 
C.  Discuss,  the  significance  of  Easter,  symbolizing  the  resur- 
rection, and  the  organization  of  the  Church  in  April — the  spring- 
time of  the  year  and  the  renewal  of  all  things  beautiful.

Helps  for  Literature  Lessons 
Several  requests  have  come  for  lists  of  books  that  might  as- 
sist in  the  literature  work  and  help  to  build  a  library,  either  in  the 
community  or  in  the  home.  The  standard  History  of  American 
Literature  is  the  Cambridge,  History  of  American  Literature, 
published  by  Putnam  and  issued  in  several  volumes.  This  series 
of  books  contains  more  select  material  on  American  literature  than 
is  found  in  any  other  set.  It  is  scholarly,  however,  and  may  not 
suit  the  general  needs. 
We  suggest  two  books  that  are  very  good  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  selections  they  contain.  First,  "Three  Centuries  of 
American  Literature,"  and,  secondly,  "Chief  American  Poets." 
In  order  to  furnish  books  that  contain  brief  biographical 
sketches  of  the  authors  and  some  critical  comments,  we  suggest  a 
list  of  manuals  of  American  literature  as  follows :  "American 
Literature,"  by  Long;  "American  Literature,"  Bronson;  "History 
of  American  Literature,"  Cairns;  "Introduction  to  American  Lit- 
erature," Pancoast;  "American  Literature,"  Halleck,  and  "Amer- 
ican Literature,"  Katherine  Lee  Bates.  If  you  have  public  or 
school  libraries  that  are  fairly  well  equipped,  you  i  will  find  all  or 
many  of  these  books  in  the  stacks. 
If  you  wish  to  purchase  any  of  these  books  you  may  do  so 
by  writing  to  A.  C.  McClurg  &  Company,  Chicago.  If  you  wish 
a  satisfactory  and  complete  edition  of  the  poets  we  have  studied, 
for  public  or  private  libraries,  we  would  suggest  that  you  purchase 
the  Cambridge  edition  of  the  poets,  to  be  had  in  separate  volumes.

Compare  the  Pages  of 
with  those  of  any  other  paper.  Notice  that  while 
the  paper  is  clean  and  fit  for  any  child  to  read 
it  is  also  interesting  and  informative  in  the  high- 
est sense — And  you  get 
"TODAYS  NEWS  TODAY" 
\; 
/^ 
Individual  Sacrament  Sets  Now  in  Stock 
BEST  IN  THE  MARKET 
WILL  LAST  A  LIFE  TIME 
36  GLASSES  IN  EACH  TRAl 
RECOMMENDED    BY    PATRONS.      REFERENCES    FURNISHED 
Made  especially  for  L.  D.   S.  Churches,  and  successfully  used  in  Utah  and  Inter- 
mountain    region,    also    in    all    Missions    in   the   United    States,    Europe,    and    Pacific 
Islands.     Basic  metal.  Nickel  Silver,  heavily  plated  with  Solid  Silver. 
SIMPLE,  SANITARY,  DURABLE 
Satisfaction  guaranteed.    Inquiries  cheerfully  answered 
THE  LATEST  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Bishop's  Office,  Bern,  Idaho,  May  2,  1921. 
"I  am  in  receipt  of  the  Individual  Sacrament  Set,  consisting  of  four  trays  and 
the  proper  number  of  glasses. 
"Everything  arrived  iri  good  condition.     We  are  very  pleased  with  it.     I  take  this 
occasion  to  thank  you  for  your  kindness." 
Temple  Block BUREAU  OF  INFORMATION Salt  Lake  City

ffo/ejoroof 
//osier*/ 
Glazier  and  Taylor 
HOSIERY  COMPANY 
33    EAST    BROADWAY 
A    Store    Dealing   in    Quality   Hosiery   and 
Underwear  Exclusively 
Heavy    Silk    Full-Fashioned,    all    colors 
A  wonderful  hose  for  wear 
Per  Pair 
 $2.00 
Box    of    Three    Pairs    5.75 
Silk    Semi-Fashioned,    all    colors, 
beautiful  and  durable 
Per     Pair 
 $1.50 
Box  of  Three  Pair   $4.25 
Silk  with  Extra  Stretch  Elastic 
Top,  the  Comfort  Stocking 
Per  Pair 
 $1.65 
Box    of    three    pairs.... ; 
 $4.75 
Pure   Silk,    Semi-Fashioned,   very  durable 
All  Colors 
Per     Pair 
 $1 .05 
Box  of  Three  Pairs   $3.00 
MAIL  ORDERS  PREPAID 
CENTURY   PRINTING   CO 
231-35  Edison  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Catalogs,  Color- Work,  Programs,  Publications,  Commercial 
forms. 
Service  is  Our  Motto. 
Our  Phone,  Was.  1801. 
THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE  desires  to  obtain  the  fol- 
lowing numbers  of  the  magazine  for  1923 : 
23  February  number  7  August      number 
26  March  "  6  September 
3  May  *  4  October 
a 
Please  notify  this  office  how  many  you  can  furnish  of  each 
before  sending  them  in. 
We  pay  20c  per  copy.