Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman Summit Stake ? On October 30, 1923, at Kamas ward, in the Summit stake, a very successful social was given by the officers of the Relief Society, in honor of the thirteenth anniversary of the dedication of the Relief Society building of that ward.

A very interesting program was given, including the story of how the house was built and how the money was obtained to build it, by the president, Mrs. Elva E. Lambert.

Following the program an elaborate chicken dinner was served.

Forty people were seated at the two long tables, which ran the length of the room.

The company consisted of: thirty-eight members, twelve visitors, and twenty babies and small children.

The Relief Society building was started sixteen years ago and was completed in about two and one-half years, and is valued at $2,200. The society has just completed a cement walk on the entire south side of the lot which is one half a city block, and has also put in a water hydrant.

E Teachers' Topics With a view of increasing interest in the visits of the Relief 146 ? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society teachers and with a view of having members throughout the organization profit by the teachers' topics, it is suggested by the General Board that all members of the Relief Society make it a point to be conversant with the current topic each month, and when the teachers do not introduce the subject themselves during the visit, it is suggested that the hostess lead out in the discussion.

The topics are well prepared and worth while, and where the visiting teacher and the hostess are both familiar with them, and discuss them freely, the teachers' visits will be profitable to all concerned.

Teachers' Districts It is requested by the General Board that Relief Society women in speaking of the territory assigned to a pair of teachers for visiting use the term "district" rather than the term "beat." In the teachers' book the word "district" is used throughout and is very much more dignified and suitable than the word "beat." New Zealand Mission Mrs. Martha J. Wright, president of the Relief Society of New Zealand, writes that she is very happy in her work in this far away land.

In visiting at the various district conferences she has found the Relief Society women interested in their work and making every effort to live up to the gospel teachings, including the Word of Wisdom.

She says: "The dear Maori sisters are very faithful in carrying forward the Relief Society work, and their reports which come in regularly will enable me to make a complete and interesting compiled report for the General Board." Accompanying the local reports sent in to Mrs. Wright are very interesting letters written in English by the local Maori secretaries.

Maricopa Stake.

Phoenix ward won the prize in the recent stake contest for the best average attendance at meetings during 1923, and will receive one dozen Relief Society song books as a prize.

Tintic Stake The Tintic stake Relief Society held their annual stake party at the L. D. S. Church amusement hall.

Those present were the stake officers and husbands, all ward officers and husbands, and the bishops of the wards with their wives.

In all there were 65 in attendance.

The evening included an interesting program, miscellaneous games, and an excellent chicken supper.

Logan Stake: In Memoriam.

In the death of Mary J. Pederson, widow of the late President H. A. Pederson, the church and community have lost one of its most faithful and earnest workers.

She and her husband, who preceded her to the Great Beyond, two years ago, have been residents of Logan since their childhood.

Mrs. Pederson was the mother of ten children, nine of whom, with a small granddaughter, survive her.

She was a devoted member of the Logan stake Relief Society board, where her sweet smile and unselfish disposition will be greatly missed by her co-workers.

An impressive funeral service was held December 14, where her many friends paid tribute to her sweet character, her humble spirit, her devotion to her family and her unselfish life of service.

Hawaiian Mission Mrs. Louise C. Neff was appointed president of the Relief Society of the Hawaiian Mission, on August 4, 1923, to succeed Mrs. May Smith who served the Relief Society as president efficiently for several years and who with her husband, Wesley E. Smith, was released a few months previous to this time.

Mrs. Neff chose as her counselors Sisters Minerva Fernandez and Rickie McQuire, two efficient local workers who have had a great deal of experience in the Relief Society work and who will render valuable assistance because of their knowledge of the Hawaiian language.

In a letter written at Christmas time Mrs. Neff writes: 'We rejoice in our labors and hope to be able to advance the work that has been so well established in this mission by my predecessors.

At the present time we are busily engaged in making Christmas boxes to send to the poor and unfortunate in our midst.

We have also been asked to fill one hundred sixty boxes for the soldier boys who are stationed here." Malad Stake All ward Relief Societies in this stake have agreed to hold their wheat interest for maternity and child welfare work.

Plans are now uhder way to establish in each ward something in the nature of a maternity cabinet or chest.

Nine of the eleven Malad wards are located in Idaho, and two are located in Utah.

During September the state field nurse from Boise accompanied by Relief Society workers visited all the schools in Oneida county.

The children of school age were given thorough examinations and many of the defects discovered have since been corrected. -The expenses of the nurse were paid from funds which had been raised in the county through the sale of Red Cross seals and refunded to the county by the state organization.

In Portage, Utah, a clinic was held, December 19, by Dr. Wilford Barber, Mrs, Ella Conover, and Miss Hansen, assisted by Dr. Black of 
 Garland and by members of the Relief Society stake board.

Forty-nine children of pre-school age were examined, also a number of mothers.

Follow-up work will be done by Miss Hansen who will revisit Portage in January.

Morgan Stake In Morgan stake very profitable bazaars hawe recently been held.

Some of the wards joined with other auxiliaries and divided the profits.

The Peterson Relief Society held a separate bazaar and was so successful that over and above the amount they had estimated they could raise, they had a surplus which was sufficient to cover the subscription price of the Relief Society Magazine for all their members.

Weber Stake In the late afternoon of New Year's Eve, the Relief Society of Hooper ward took singers and visited all the elderly and homebound sisters of the ward.

The serenade and the hand shake were cheering and helpful to both the visitors and the visited.

Canadian Mission ?. Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, president of the Relief Society in the Canadian mission, writes that the work in this field is favorably progressing.

During the past year three new and enthusiastic Relief Societies have been organized.

Juarez Stake 1923 was a very successful year in Juarez stake, which consists of five wards and one branch.

The work was noticeably stimulated by the special Relief Society convention of four sessions held during the fall together with the regular ward conferences.

Great effort is being made to raise the standard of the work of the visiting teachers, The teachers' topics are carefully discussed previous to visits and inspirational talks are given concerning the work and duties of the teachers.

The stake board holds monthly officers' meetings, where the regular work is planned and discussed.

All circular letters from the General Board are carefully considered and items concerning the ward work directly are sent on to the wards by letter.

The stake officers visited the mountain settlements once and Dublan three times officially, during the year.

The wards are all interested in keeping up-to-date the ward history.

Juarez and Dublan both held successful bazaars recently.

The object of the Juarez bazaar was to raise funds for the Mesa temple.

Home reading is a feature in this stake.

Practically every woman in this stake has, during the year, read the Book of Mormon, and most of them have read the Doctrine and Covenants.

Conventions and Conferences General Board members visited Relief Society stake conventions and conferences, which were held in all the stakes during 1923, as follows: Alberta?Mrrs.

Lotta P. Baxter.

Alpine?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.. Bannock?Miss Sarah M. McLelland.

Bear Lake?Mrs. Child.: Bear River?Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Beaver?Mrs. Julia A. Child.

Benson?Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Big Horn?Mrs, Lotta P. Baxter.

Bingham?Mrs, Julia A. Child.

Blackfoot?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion.

Blaine?Miss Alice L, Reynolds.

Boise?Miss Alice L. Reynolds.

Box Elder?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Burley?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon.

Cache?Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. | Carbon?Mrs, Ethel R. Smith.

Cassia?Mrs, Amy W. Evans.

Cottonwood?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Curlew?Mrs. -Amy Brown Lyman.. Deseret?Mrs, Julia A. Child.

Duchesne?M rs.

Amy W. Evans.

Emery?Mrs, Julia A. Child.

Ensign?Mrs, Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.

Julia A. Franklin?Mrs. Amy.

W. Evans.

Fremont?Miss Sarah M. McLelland.

Garfield?Mrs. Evans.

Granite?

Mrs.. Knight, Mrs. Richards.

Gunnison?

Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Miss Alice L. Reynolds., Hyrum?Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.

Idaho?

Mrs. Julia A. Lund.

Jordan?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards, Juab?

Mrs. Julia A. Lund.

Juarez?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Kanab?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion.

Lethbridge?Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Liberty?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs, Amy W. Evans.

Logan?Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Lost River?Mrs. Smith.

Los Angeles?Mrs. Amy W. Evans.

Malad?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Maricopa?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Millard?Mrs. Nion.

Amy W. Jennie B, Barbara H. Ethel R. Cora L. BenMoapa?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. 150 Montpelier?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon.

M or gan?Mrs. Knight.

Mt.

Ogden?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Nebo?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight.

North Davis?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine.

North Sanpete?Miss M. McLelland.

North Sevier?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

North Weber?Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Ogden?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy W. Evans.

Oneida?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

Oquirrh?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon.

Panguitch?Mrs. Cora L, Bennion.

Jennie B. Parowan?Mrs. Barbara' H. Richards, Pioneer?

Mrs.Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison.

Pocatello?

Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Portneuf?Miss Sarah M. McLelland.

Raft River?Mrs. Lund.

Rigby?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

Roosevelt?

Mrs., Amy W. Evans, St. George?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, St. Johns?Mrs. Amy W, Evans, St. Joseph?Mrs. Jeannette A. H Hyde.

Salt Lake?Mrs. Clarissa S. Julia A. Sarah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Williams, Mrs. Robison.

San Juan?Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine.

San Luis?Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Sevier?

Mrs. Jennie B. Knight.

Shelley?Mrs. Rosannah CC.

Irvine.

Snowflake?

Mrs.,. Amy: W. Evans.

South Davis?

Mrs. Clarissa S. Louise Y, Williams, Mrs. Julia A. Child.

South Sanpete?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

South Sevier?Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.

Star Valley?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Summit?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion.

Taylor?Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Teton?Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Tintic?

Mrs. Jennie B. Knight.

Tooele?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

Twin Falls?Miss Alice L. Reynolds.

Uintah?

Mrs. Amy W. Evans.

Union?Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.. Utah?

Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman.

Wasatch?Miss Alice L, Reynolds, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.

Wayne?Miss Alice L. Reynolds.

Weber?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

Woodruff?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion.

Yellowstone?

Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Young?Mrs. Rosannah_ C. Irvine.