Amy Brown Lyman MARIANNE C. SHARP IT was while attending a Relief Society convention in New York City more than a decade ago, that I first learned of the excellent service being rendered the organization by Marianne Clark Sharp, the newly appointed first counselor in the general presidency of the Relief Society, who then resided there. She was pointed out as one of the ablest and most faithful workers in that locality and, best of all, one who was willing and happy to work wherever she was most needed. It mattered not to her whether it was as class leader, visiting teacher, officer, or lay member, her interest and enthusiasm in the work she had to do was always of the highest quality. Page 262 She served while in New York as literature and theology class leader, president of Queen's Branch Society, stake board member, and finally as stake counselor to Mrs. Lorena Fletcher. Mrs. Howard R. Driggs, also of New York, remarked at that time that Marianne would make a very excellent General Board member, and she expressed the hope that some day she would see her working in this capacity. It was only natural, after her return to Utah, that Sister Sharp should continue her work in the Relief Society cause. Her devotion and efficiency were soon recognized in both ward and stake where her work as a class leader became so outstanding that no one who knew her or her accomplishments was surprised at the call that came to her, in January 1940, to serve as a member of the General Board. And now at this time, her appointment, on April 6, 1945, as first counselor in the general presidency of the organization is heartily approved by Relief Society women generally, and especially by her fellow Board members who know her best and appreciate her most. Blessed with a noble heritage, a rich background, rare native endowments, broad education and training, and with unwavering faith in the gospel of the Master, Sister Sharp is especially well fitted for this place of honor and trust. She is also blessed with the support of a devoted and understanding husband, a Christian gentleman of the highest order, and a faithful Latterday Saint. Ivor Sharp to whom she was married in 1927 is the present manager of KSL. He came to this position from the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in New York City. He is known in the business world as a man of fine character, outstanding ability and distinction, and is loved, honored, and respected by his associates in business as well as by his fellow workers in the Church. There are three lovely and interesting children in the Sharp home Luceine (Sally) Louise, and Annetta. To these children the parents are devoted.
Sister Sharp is the daughter of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church, and the late Luceine Savage Clark. Theirs was a home where the standards of the Church were always strictly observed, and where the children were taught faith in God and in the latter-day work, that the greatest joy and satisfaction came to those who adhere to the religious life. Sister Luceine Savage Clark also loved and was devoted to Relief Society and its ideals, and worked in the organization all of her mature life. Her heart is no doubt made glad with joy and pride to have this greatly deserved honor come to her sweet and lovely daughter Marianne.
DURING her five years service on the General Board, Sister Sharp has visited conferences and conventions and she has served on a number of important committees. Her major task, however, has been in the editorial field. With her discriminating judgment, quickness of perception, clarity of mind, and her capacity for work, and with the diligence and dispatch with which she works, she has given invaluable service as an editor. She assisted our new General President Belle S. Spafford in compiling, preparing, and editing A Centenary of Relief Society, published by the General Board during our centennial year, 1942. For a period she was assistant to Sister Spafford, the editor of Theand, in 1943, was named associate editor in which capacity she has served since that time. The many positions which Marianne has held have all come to her unsought. She has accepted these calls because she is obedient and because of her sense of service and her ardent desire to do something helpful for her Church and for her community.
Sister Sharp received her education in the grade and high schools of Washington, D. C. and at the University of Utah. From the latter institution she was graduated, in 1934, with high honors. She was awarded a teaching fellowship in Latin during her senior year and she continued teaching that subject at the University after her graduation.
Sister Sharp has rare gifts of spirit, mind and heart, with a deep humility. She is frank and honest, tender and sympathetic. She is generous and appreciative of the work and ability of others. While she has clear-cut, positive views, she is always open minded and teachable, always ready to listen to the views of others. But with her right and principle must come first. Above all she is loyal to those in her position of authority over her and gives them full support. She has great reverence for and is always obedient to the Priesthood. With these fine characteristics and qualifications her future is sure to be one of achievement.