Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek by study but also by faith." In the 130th section the Lord says, "Whatever principles of intelligence we attain tp in this life, will rise with us in the resurrection, and if a person gain more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." COUNSELOR LOUISA Y. ROBISON. We all look very sober, and I have been thinking of a little verse which says, it takes sixty-three muscles to produce a frown and fifteen a smile; why not conserve energy? I am sure a great many of you have had the same experience I have had in hearing missionaries return and report their work, and in always saying how they love their missionary companion and that those companions were different all the rest 
 of their lives from other people. I have seen strong, brave men who had been separated awhile, after they had been in the mission field, and their love at meeting was something beautiful; they would embrace and could hardly be separated from each other, and I have often wondered how such a thing could be, but I have found the secret of it in Relief Society work. In the smaller community where I worked in Relief Society work first, I thought my love of the sisters was due to the fact that I was closely associated with them, and could see their lovely virtues, but when I worked in the stake capacity my love was just as great, or greater. When I was called to work in a larger field, I felt that I was not capable of loving more dearly or loving more people than I had loved in my dear stake, but now as I have gone among the stakes and have had the privilege of meeting the sisters in their homes and stakes, I believe now I know what the missionary means when he tells you he loves his missionary companions, and I have been thinking if this Relief Society love could extend all over the world, the Millennium would be here quickly. There was a little motto that hung in my home when I was a girl. It read, "Welcome the tasks that make you go beyond your ordinary self, if you would grow." If we consider this, it is quite a sermon. Many of our beautiful girls marry and think they are faithful when they give their all in the home with their little people. They are so anxious to be good mothers, so anxious to be good wives, that they feel that they have not time for anything outside. They feel that life is long and after the children are grown and after they get through with their busy work, they will take up some outside work. It is too bad the young mothers do not know that it is during the time when they are rearing these children that they need the broadening things of outside work and of the Spirit of the Lord that is obtained in mingling with one another. A woman cannot live entirely by herself, and that includes her children and her husband; to be broad and successful, one writer has said, the only safe way is to have a straight path open from your soul into the great out-doors. If we do this, if we can have some avenue of communication with people outside, we will be broadened and better and can keep abreast of our children, so that we can avoid that unfortunate condition that sometimes comes to the mother of middle age, when the children say, "mother wouldn't understand." It is a very unfortunate thing to occur, and it happens because of the beautiful unselfishness that is unwisely given by the young mothers by their devotion to their children and homes. There is not a place on earth where mothers can take their children where they will be so welcome and have so much of the blessing and welcome of the sisters as in the Relief Society. I think there is no place where expectant Se, ec all grown UP now, and they are lovely and sweet. She Could fing time to 80 and take Care of her babies as well, In the Splendid Class of nurses that STaduated the first of August there was One sister from Mexico, a brave little woman, who left her children and came Up here and gave a year of S001], ©Onscientioys Work and Study and NOW she has gone back, a bless. Survey taken among the Sisters of the stake and it was found that Ninety-eight Per cent of the stake and ward officers ate keeping © Word of Isdom. In One stake they Tealize the importance Spent with the Sick, amounting to 56,908, or 155 Years given to the sick last year by busy home makers, and J not believe 4ny of them neglected their families tO give this Service, 
 in being here than I am, as this is the first conference that I have attended in our Latter-day Saint community during the past two and one-half years. I have been in England for some time past, and had a very great deal of pleasure in laboring with our sisters there in many of the communities of continental Europe. Upon our arrival in Liverpool, the headquarters of the mission, we found twice as many people as live in the state of Utah. The peace pact had just been signed, and we, of course, felt that peace and love were coming to all the earth, but, to our very great surprise, sorrow, and disappointment, we found this not to be the case. First of all we found that American citizens were not very welcome in Great Britain. We found this condition also in the communities on the continent. Food almost doubled in price after our arrival in Great Britain. We were furnished foo: cards, and only in February of this year were we allowed to purchase the amount of food we desired, if we had the money to pay for it. We are so much better off than the people of Continental Europe that there is no comparison. You have heard of the terrible labor troubles in that country, which are far in excess of the labor difficulties here, particularly the coal strikes, which mean that the railroads, the mills, which are the backbone of that country, are obliged to stand still. A little over a year ago we had a coal strike and a most. Terriblé riot in different parts of England where great mills and other property were destroyed. Last spring we had another terrible coal strike, commencing very early in the spring and lasting until within two weeks of the time we left England, the middle of July. Thousands and thousands of families were not able to cook food in their homes on account of lack of fuel. We have had to have fuel cards the same as food cards, but, through the mercy of God, at our mission headquarters, we have never wanted for fuel. When we arrived in Great Britain we found that our missionary corps had been very greatly depleted during the war, and many Saints had immigrated to Utah, so it was quite a task to hold the work together. We found we had seven missionaries to assist us where at one time there were three hundred men, and you can imagine what it meant to keep things going. A few of our conferences had to be disorganized and also many branches; and, of course, our Relief Society organizations and other auxiliaries had to suffer in the same manner. Until one year ago we had no relief from this condition. At this time Brother Smith was laboring with the government for permission for our people to come in and preach the gospel. On many occasions the officials of the government would say, "Why do you come? We do not need you here; we cannot get our people to go into the churches here." People seem to have really deserted the Lord. You find churches CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 707 of all denominations almost empty. The people have no faith nor confidence in any one. After many interviews with the officials they finally gave Brother Smith an opportunity to explain the work, and now the elders are permitted to come with the restriction that we should: not cause riots, and that missionaries should not receive pay; the reason for this is because there are so many men in Great Britain who have no employment. Two million men are now walking the streets unemployed. For some time past the government has been giving them an employment wage that has kept body and soul together. The little children in Great Britain have been going to the public schools and receiving their morning meal—a cup of tea and dry bread. In the midst of all these conditions, however, we find that the public house is never closed. This condition is one of the most dreadful things that could come into any country, an how grateful I was every day I was there to feel that I lived in a country where we enjoyed prohibition. It is a very pitiful sight to see on the sidewalk in front of the public houses the little children waiting not only for their fathers to come out, but also for their mothers to come out. ' We reorganized many of the Relief Societies before leaving. All of the people attend all of the meetings, and we had in our membership in the Relief Society organization, young girls from ten upwards. We have now a working force of about three thousand women in continental Europe and South Africa, with 155 branches. These women are now able to conduct their organizations by themselves through the indirect help of the priesthood. We have a great many people who are working with us who are not Latter-day Saints and who are doing good work. We make a great many things to give to the poor. The making of toys has even been taken into the Relief Society to secure funds to carry on the work. You will be pleased to know that our European mission has disbursed in cash over $15,000 during the past year, under very strenuous circumstances, especially in the German and Austrian missions where the greatest suffering is taking place. I would like to mention two or three other things that our sisters are doing. In almost every branch we have a maternity chest and the need of it is very great there. This maternity chest is kept replenished and in good condition all the time, and a wonderful help it is to the sisters. We find several of our organizations have adopted a child or two and are responsible for its education and food and clothing for a certain number of years. This past March, with three exceptions, all of our organizations observed the annual day of the Relief Society and I was very delighted to find this so. I feel that I should particularly mention 
 the work done in the Swiss and German mission. They have been in very great need. Over $9000 in cash and hundreds of thousands of articles have been made and disbursed in the Swiss and German mission. This amount has been raised in continental Europe. When I tell you that many of the people are still eating very dark bread, a combination of straw and wood and shavings and a little bit of meal, you will understand what they are going through. Many of the children are undernourished. The women and the children in that stricken land are suffering untold misery, but continual relief is being sent to them and their condition is being relieved and improved. When I looked into the faces of those little children, which were just as white as though they were dead, my heart was filled with pity. I found women working in the fields, shoveling coal, etc. This distress is not universal, however, because people who have money can get what they need, but they are few indeed. I would like to say that the Relief Society women who are working in Europe are full of the Spirit of God, they are true blue, they are serving the Lord with all their might, mind and strength. Their eyes are turned toward Zion; they wish they could come and mingle with you, and I should like to say to the General Board that they love them and sustain you all. PEACE RESOLUTIONS, A resolution on peace and the limitation of armaments, prepared by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, was presented by Counselor Louise Y. Robison and was unanimously adopted. (This resolution appeared in the November number of the Relief Soctety Magazine.) EMMELINE B. WELLS RELIEF SOCIETY MEMORIAL LOAN FUND. Just before closing the conference, President Williams presented to the great assembly the proposition of establishing, at the Brigham Young University, a memorial loan fund for girls, in honor of the late President Emmeline B. Wells. This matter had already been acted upon favorably at the General Officers' meeting, and it was now brought for approval of the entire conference. President Williams asked those who favored the proposition to stand in silence for a moment with bowed heads. It was an impressive and touching moment, when the entire congregation stood and, with bowed heads, approved of this lasting memorial to their late beloved leader. Out of the World By G. Milton Babcock. XIV (Concluded) Walter felt that he had earned a vacation, for the strain of the strike had told greatly upon him, intensified, perhaps, by the sympathy he felt for the cause of the workers. He was, therefore, granted leave with pay for a week, and Sunday morning, April 17, he started for Glens Falls with his mother, taking the stage over the mountain. He wrote ahead that he was coming to be baptized, and also wrote his cousin Elizabeth of his intentions, suggesting that-she witness the ceremony. To his surprise and delight, he found her awaiting him at the Guiles home. "When I got your letter, I showed it to the folks and told them I had decided to be baptized with you," she announced. "Good for you! Elizabeth. You don't know how glad I am to hear you say that. You know the Bible says, 'one of a city and two of a family.' " "Yes; but I had a terrible time to get away. Mama and Dot are absolutely against it, and only papa gave me any encouragement. I do hope and pray mama will see thing's in a better light— if she would only let me talk with her." "Well, you. Know, Elizabeth, that he who loves father or mother more than Christ is not worthy of him. I, too, have passed through some hard experiences for the gospel, but, fortunately, mother will listen to the elders, though she can't understand yet that I know anything about it myself; she thinks it is simply the influence of the elders that keeps me in line. I hope, some cay, the Lord will open up the way for us both to convert our olks." About a mile from the Guiles' flowed the Hudson, and shortly after noon that day Walter and Elizabeth came "out of the world," and entered the fold of Christ. A thin coating of ice was on the water. Walter was baptized first, and, although the water was very cold, a feeling of joy and exultation possessed him that overshadowed everything else. Were not his sins washed away? Was he not making a covenant with God? Was he not becoming a son of God by adoption in the flesh, thus completing the cycle of family relationship with his Maker that had its beginning in the spirit world? Bravely Elizabeth went down into the cleasing waters, and, 
 as Elder Wood guided her shoreward, the sunbeams spread a glorious halo around her serene countenance, reminding Walter of the painting of an olden saint on one of the windows of St. Mark's at home. Quickly they drove back to Guiles' where confirmation was held. Walter was given the privilege of speaking and bore a strong testimony, stating that his desire was that he would be "faithful unto death" in order that he might win a "crown of life;" that, regardless of the acts of any individual member of the Church, he would ever realize that he had espoused the principles of the gospel and not the personality of any individual. Perhaps his remarks were partly inspired by the actions of a certain local couple who had been "converted to the elder" rather than to the gospel; who, as soon as the missionary had been released, promptly forgot their duties as Latter-day Saints. Then, too, Elder Wood had told him that, if it was ever Walter's good fortune to gather with the Saints in the valleys of the mountains, he must expect to find good, bad, and indifferent "Mormons'—''Jack-Mormons" he called the last. He would, possibly find some of the elders whom he had entertained engaged in a stern struggle for the necessities of life, and not able to return the hospitality which had been bestowed upon them while in the mission field. From Guiles', Walter and his mother departed for Green Island, accompanied by Elder Lester, who was anxious to call on Captain Robbins. Arriving in Troy, Elder Lester found lodging with a family of Saints there, while Walter and his mother were heartily welcomed by Uncle Billy and Aunt Angie in Green Island.. Walter was greatly surprised at how his aunt and uncle had aged since he last saw them, especially his aunt. They were fast approaching the halcyon calm of their journey over the ocean of life, and soon the snows of winter would rest heavily upon their brows. She had suffered much because of Walter's home-leaving, she said, and felt that he had been ungrateful for what she and his uncle had done for him, but was glad he was doing well and she, herself, was trying to forget the past. Walter hesitated before telling of his new religious affiliation. In fact, at first, he thought it would be best to say nothing at all, recalling his aunt's great prejudice on matters religious. However, he decided that he had been "warned," and that he would not be doing his duty if he failed to present the gospel to his people. "It's a shame and a disgrace for you to belong to the "Mormon' Church!" Aunt Angie exploded indignantly when Walter informed her. "You've been taught better, and I don't see why OUT OF THE WORLD 711 you want to forsake your teachings now—but you always were headstrong," she added reflectively. "Two of their book agents came to my door years ago. They were both polite young fellows and posed as gentlemen—but that's just it; they send out That'll do, now!" she commanded, as Walter started to protest. "I don't care to listen to anything you have to say about the 'Mormons,' and please don't mention them again while you are here." Nevertheless, Walter did mention the subject to his Uncle Billy, who received it with a characteristic remark: "Go to it, boy; I reckon you're as near right as any of them!" One evening Walter and Elder Lester started out for Captain Robbins'. The old houseboat had been hauled far up from the water's edge. "T reckoned you'd put into harbor again," beamed the Captain, heartily shaking Elder Lester by the hand, recognizing him instantly. "T'ye Prayed to see ye again. Well, of all things! Lad, how are ye?" almost crushing Walter's hand in his powerful gtasp. "Captain Robbins, this is Elder John Lester, a minister in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I met him up north and he remembered talking with you, so we decided to come and see you together," "The Church of Jesus Christ—what? Say, that name sounds good to me. I've never heard a Church afore sailin' under them colors." "Yes, Captain," declared the elder, "it's the only Church that I know of that bears his name. The last part of the name is 'of Latter-day Saints.' You know the followers of Christ were called 'Saints' in his day, and we say 'Latter-day Saints' to distinguish us from them." "So they were, sir—so they were. What port do ye hail from?" "My home is in Provo, Utah." "Out in the 'Mormon' country, eh? Let me see, let me see,"' he went on reflectively, "don't the 'Mormons' call themselves Saints?" "Yes, sir, ''m a sure-enough 'Mormon,' " announced the elder. "Well, I'll be blowed! Why, don't you know, the summer afore I started to run the ferry I took a trip to Yellowstone Park. We changed trains at Ogden, Utah, and I decided to take a run liked their lingo, | anchored there three days and never see a finer lot of shipmates. So you're One of them >" "And I'm one, too!" exclaimed Walter impulsively, unable to keep back the news any longer, A look of Surprise greater than before Overspread the Captain's features, "So Was preachin' < le) ism' to ye, lad," he grinned reflectively, "and it washed ye Overboard! Well, lad, a if this €re minister has any more Cargo aboard like what he had last time, ] Suess I'll have to take Passage with ye," he on the living and On the dead—on € just and on the unjust. € day grew dark, Mournfully the chapel belf sounded, like an angelus calling to devotions; but the unnumbered hosts of the Sleeping city heard not—cared not. He two Mourners took refuge in a shelter which had been erected under a large, drooping willow, A tinkling brook flowed Nearby, eagerly welcoming the Taindrops, "Don't Cry, mother," pleaded Walter as She gaye Way to Violent Weeping, Presently she Controlled her feelings, "The rain makes me sad, alter," she Tieved, "when I think of your father lying OUT OF THE WORLD 713 "at least, he did not belong to a church. For all that, he had a faith in a heavenly Father." "Ah, that's just it, mother! It isn't always those who belong to churches that are the best People, or have the most faith. I believe my father fought the good fight and that he kept the faith that he had. And little do I know what a faith that really was! Remember, mother," he continued earnestly," far-away look coming into his eyes, "the time we lived in Simmons' house: Jane Bass called and you went on to tell her how you and my father met? I was lying in bed listening, and I can hear your voice today as Plain as can be. You said that father told you, 'I hope, some day, either in this world or the next, I shall find "And then, mother, you broke down and cried!" the tears starting into his own eyes at the remembrance. "And—and, Walter, I wonder if he knows the right way, now?" she sobbed, repeating her question of nearly ten years "Yes, mother, I believe he does. But, suppose he does know the right way—what good does it do him? He never has been baptized into the true Church of Jesus Christ, and without such baptism, so Christ told Nicodemus, he could not enter the kinglive according to God in the spirit;' that is, have the same laws "My son," she said, deeply moved, "I only wish I could believe as you do. It is certainly 'most beautiful to think that there is a chance after death, Perhaps your father is Waiting for you to have that work done for him," she suggested, a hopeful light shining in her deep eyes, "Come, mother, it has stopped raining, and we'd better get back to the station." One more look at the spot where lay the earthly remains of the father he had never known, wishing that a voice could call from the grave and bespeak its longings, and _ then he departed. * *£ *& | A few evenings after his arrival home, Walter called on Edith. He found her reading. 714. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "What book is that, Edith,' he interrogated, after they had exchanged a few pleasantries. "Tt is entitled Added Upon, she replied. "Ever heard of it?" she queried archly. "Seems to me I have," he answered slowly, "but I can't just recall it now." "You're a fine Latter-day Saint!" she scolded demurely. "Why, Edith—what do you mean?" "I mean that Added Upon is one of the best stories I have ever read, and further, that it was written by a 'Mormon!' " "Do you mean to say that you have been reading a 'Mormon' book?" he demanded increduously. "I certainly do; and further, Mr. Nelson," she went on roguishly, "I'll wager a piece of my apple pie that I baked this afternoon against a ticket to the Methodist entertainment tomorrow night that I've read more 'Mormon' books than you. See! There they are," pointing his wondering eyes to a wellstocked shelf in the bookcase. "Edith," said he quietly, but with trembling voice, "I can't understand it all—yet., Come! It's a beautiful evening—let's take a walk along the River Road, and you can tell me more about it," he persuaded. "You see," Edith explained as they started out, "for some weeks after you left that tract with me I refused to read it; but somehow or other, one evening I couldn't resist picking it up. I read and liked it, so thought I would return it to you and get some more literature. I felt rather bad at the way I had spoken to you that day in your house, but when you took the tract from me so coldly, I couldn't bring myself to speak of 'Mormonism' at all. I glanced at the address of the Eastern States Mission on the last page, however, and wrote them for literature. Ever since, I have been buying tracts and books from them. You see—it was all very simple!" she concluded gaily. * ok OK A warm spring breeze murmured and the moonbeams voluptously danced and flitted through the infant treetops, over the brilliant green foliage along the shore, and out into the water where they formed a silvery moonglade. Plaintively a nightbird called his mate, while faintly could be heard the croon of the dam as it mothered the receding waters of the freshet, holding them safely above its breast until the summer drought began. "Do you know what night this reminds me of, Edith?" he asked, as they walked slowly along, arms entwined. "No, I don't, Walter," she answered softly. "Tt reminds me of the night I visited Captain Robbins to talk religion and met you on the way home." OUT OF THE WORLD 715 "Yes," she added impulsively, "and I, the little silly, had to get you into trouble with your aunt by telling her you weren't at church!" "You made up for it the following Sunday, though, Edith." "How?"? Rs "By giving me some of the sweet peas from your boquet. I have cherished them ever since." "I saw them in your Bible. Were they sw precious as all that," she murmured. A moment of prophetic silence prevailed. Overhead shone white, steady Jupiter, while directly to the south, midway of the horizon, blazed the brilliant Dogstar, Sirius, sending earthward his exquisite flashings of bluish white. Then Walter spoke: "They were, Edith. They always reminded me of you—you whom I have loved ever since the day we went over the dam together. Edith!' he went on, drawing her impulsively to him, "will you—will you wait for me until we can sail over life's main together?" "Yes, Walter—lI will," she answered happily, "upon one condition." "And that?" he breathed. "That we embark for Time and all Eternity—from the House of the Lord," she whispered reverently. (The End.) MUSIC No more beautiful and useful department of the Relief Society exists, both in a general and local way, than the choir and choirs which make music for our ward meetings, our state and general conferences. We are presenting to our readers, a picture of the General Relief Society choir, with our gracious and gifted choir leader, a beloved singing artist, and her able assistant in her work, Miss Edna Coray, who is an organist par excellence. Miss Coray is an artist by gift and by training. These two certainly have developed the general choir along the best musical lines, and have produced for us music which is rarely surpassed by other choirs wherever they may be found in the Church. Miss Coray is also a composer, and we are happy to give, in this number, an original song by her, which is sometimes sung by the general choir. Standing in front of Mrs. Edward, are the new Presidency of the Relief Society. Mrs. Hyde has done much in the way of encouragement and assistance for the general devlopment of the choir.