[Vol9 | December 1922 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for December]
Guide  Lessons  for  December 
LESSON  I 
Theology  and  Testimony 
(First  Week  in   February) 
THE   MIRIACLE  OF  TESTIMONY 
The  Nature  of  a  Testimony : 
A  religious  testimony  is  a  state  of  certitude  occasioned  and 
sustained  by  a  spiritual  influence.  It  must  have  behind  it  some 
sort  of  superhuman  support,  and  therefore  has  in  it  the  miracle 
element.  It  differs  from  a  state  of  mental  certitude  obtained  by 
thinking.  It  is  more  the  fruits  of  conversion  than  of  conviction. 
In  its  perfection,  it  is  intellect  plus  inspiration ;  it  is  knowing  plus 
feeling.  We  are  convinced,  through  philosophy,  of  the  necessity 
for  God ;  we  are  converted  through  religion  to  acquaintance  with 
God. 
A  person  seeing  the  fruits  of  "Alormonism"  might  apply  for 
membership  in  the  Church,  throug*h  a  conviction  that  it  is  the 
most  perfect  organization  on  earth  for  the  development  and  hap- 
piness of  men;  but  he  could  not  claim  to  be  a  convert  until  he 
could  say,  "I  am  not  only  convinced  in  my  mind,  but  I  feel  in 
my  soul  that  it  is  God's  work."  This  feeling  of  the  truth  oc- 
casioned by  the  presence  and  the  power  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  is  the  conversion  from  which  our  testimony  comes. 
The  Two  Forms  of  Obtaining  a  Testimony: 
To  most  of  our  young  people  the  miracle  of  testimony  is  one 
of  gradual  growth  or  development.  Unknown  to  them,  the 
mother's  lullabys,  the  bed-time  prayers,  the  family  devotion,  the 
Sunday  School  songs,  and  all  the  spiritual  activities  in  which 
they  take  part,  are  all  making  them  converts.  Their  whole  being 
has  been  gradually  adjusted  to  the  pleasurable  companionship  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  this  spiritual  growth  has  been  as 
natural  and  unconscious  as  the  g'rowth  of  their  bodies  and  their 
intellects.  When  they  are  baptized  and  confinned,  the  presence 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  during  these  ordinances  occasions  no 
surprise;  they  simply  feel  that  they  have  done  right  and  this 
feeling  is  conversion;  it  is  testimony.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
with  which  they  are  habitually  acquainted  testifies  to  them  with  a 
certainty  akin  to  that  of  the  voice  that  spoke  out  of  heaven  to  our 
Father  Adam  at  his  baptism.    They  are  born  sons  and  daughters