Sophonisba P. Breckinridge
Miss Sophonisba Preston Breckinridge has had an extended experience in connection with Miss Marion Talbot as Dean of Women in the University of Chicago. Miss Breckinridge is of southern extraction, and has that cordial and sympathetic way so characteristic of the South. She is a social worker and educator, born in Lexington, Kentucky. Her first degree was taken from Wellesley, in 1888. In 1901 she received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Chicago; J. D., in 1904; LL. D., Oberlin, 1919; University of Kentucky, 1925. She has been a member of the faculty of the University of Chicago since 1902; Professor of Social Economy since 1925.
Philanthropic work has always made large appeal to her. She was formerly Dean of the Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy. She is an author, and has a list of some seven books to her credit, they are: Legal Tender, A Study in American Monetary History, 1901; (with Edith Abbott) The Delinquent Child and the Home, 1912; (with Marion Talbot) The Modern Household, 1912; (with Edith Abbott) Truancy, 1917; New Homes for Old, 1921; Madeline McDowell Breckinridge, a Leader in the New South, 1921; Family Welfare Work in a Metropolitan Community, 1924.
Editorially we have spoken of the sympathetic way in which Miss Breckinridge referred to the socially delinquent in her address at the banquet at the Hotel Utah. Recognition of the fact that many who are out of confinement might properly be confined were their history fully known, and that many who are in places of detention are not worse than those who have their liberty, was hinted at in a humorous and delicate manner by Miss Breckinridge. While at the Utah Penitentiary it was evident that she was greatly interested in the welfare of the prisoners. We were permitted to see the women on our visit. While there Miss Breckinridge entered into a conversation with them that was kindly and cordial in the extreme; one that tended to put them at once at their ease. Miss Breckinridge's concern, at all times appeared to be the concern of one who would be constructively helpful.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
MottoCharity Never Faileth

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine 
EDITORIAL