Edith Abbott Dean of the Graduate School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago
As I sit writing I have before me some official paper headed "The University of Chicago. The Graduate School of Social Service Administration. Office of the Dean," and a letter addressed to me beginning, "Dean Abbott has just returned to the University after an absence from the city." The heading of the paper and the sentence causes me to ponder on a period not far in the past when such a letter would have been impossible.
Miss Edith Abbott, occupying the position of Dean of the Graduate School of Social Service Administration of the University of Chicago, is the sister of Miss Grace Abbott, who heads the Children's Bureau at Washington, D. C. In Columbia University there are two Thorndykesbrotherswho stand out conspicuously, and three VanDorenstwo brothers and a sisterwho are eminent, but here we have two sisters, well trained, who are making efficient contributions to the social life of our country. It may be of interest to our readers to note, that Miss Abbott is the dean with whom Dr. Arthur L. Beeley is associated in his work on the faculty of the University of Chicago.
Who's Who in America informs us that Miss Edith Abbott was born in Grand Island, Nebraska, September 26, 1876. That she is the daughter of Othman A. and Elizabeth (Griffin) Abbott. Her A. B., was taken from the University of Nebraska in 1901; Litt. D., 1917; Ph. D., University of Chicago, 1905; LL. D., Beloit, Wisconsin College, 1924. She studied at the University of London, England, 1906-1907.
So much for her work as a student. Since that time she has served on the faculty of a number of institutions. She was instructor in Political Economy at Wellesley College, 1907-1908; Associate Director Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy 1908-1920; a member of the faculty of the University of Chicago since 1913; Associate Professor Social Economy 1920-25; Professor Social Economy since 1925; Dean, Graduate School of Social Service Administration since 1924.
She is listed as the author of four books, Women in Industry, 1919; ImmigrationSelect Documents and Case Records, 1923; and in conjunction with Miss Breckinridge The Delinquent Child and the Home, 1912; Truancy and Non-Attendance in Chicago, 1917.
I had the pleasure of a luncheon, a drive to the University of Utah to see the dinosaurs, and a visit to the Utah Penitentiary in company with Miss Edith Abbott and Miss Breckinridge. On the route we chatted somewhat about the women's colleges of the East and about Western institutions. The fact that Miss Abbott has served on the faculty of institutions both east and west made her observations in relation to education east and west, exceedingly interesting.
Miss Abbott leaves one with a feeling that her ideas are clear-cut. Those who know her intimately admire her fine mentality and her ability to rise above the personal and get the large point of view, and while she is particularly interested in social work, because that is her chosen field, she is interested in education in general. She is one of a few women in America to hold a deanship in a university, and certainly is, in conjunction with her gifted sister, a woman of whom all American women may be justly proud.