Relief Society conferences were held in all the _ wards, in connection with the Sunday afternoon sacrament meeting. One ward of the stake has accomplished much good in caring for a motherless family, by doing washing. Sewing, mending, and by teaching the children to perform the work and care for the home., Through the efforts of the stake Relief Society president the stake was successful in obtaining a state doctor and nurse, who conducted three health clinics in the stake far children of preschool age. The Relief Society also joined With the other women of the Bear Lake stake in circulating a petition in the county for a school nurse. The result of this was that a nurse was obtained t work in the county for a part of the school year. ORGANIZATIONS AND RE-ORGANIZATIONS Morgan Stake Re-organised. The Morgan stake was re-organized on August 22, 1926. Mrs. Mary Chadwick resigned as president, and her resignation was accepted with deep appreciation for the excellent service she has rendered. The following officers were appointed: President, Mrs. Sophia Anderson; counselors, Mrs. Annie Heiner and Mrs. Selma Francis; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lucy Turner; aids, Mrs. May D. Rich, Mrs. Annie S. Dixon, Mrs. Laura Little, Mrs. Bertha Porter, Mrs. Winnie Robison and Mrs. Florence Visick.. On Thursday, September 2, a social was givn in honor of the retiring. President, Mrs. Mary Chadwick, at the home of Counselor Maggie Francis. A very pleasant afternoon was spent, after which a most delicious luncheon was served. Sister Chadwick was presented with three volumes of Edgar A. Guest's poems. Lyman Stake Organized. On July 18, 1926, the Lyman stake Relief Society was organized in connection with the organization of the new Lyman stake. The wards composing this stake were taken from the Woodrull stake. Mrs. Retta Blackner was appointed president, with the following assistants: counselors, Mrs. Rebecca Bradshaw and Mrs. Mary Hamblin; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Frances Carter. Nevada Stake Organized. The Nevada stake Relief Society was organized September 18, 1926, when the Nevada stake was organized with wards and branches from the North Weber stake and the California mission. The following Relief Society officers were appointed: president, 
 Mrs. Mary Horlicker; counselors, Mrs. Hortense Nelson and Mrs. Louisa Johnson; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Edna W. Muir. Eastern States Mission. Burlington, Vermont. The Relief Society of Burlington, Vermont, writes the general office as' follows: "For the first time in the history of the Eastern States mission, we have been BURLINGTON, VERMONT, RELIEF SOCIETY successful in organizing a Relief Society in the state of Vermont. It was organized June 30, 1926, with 18 present, 13 of whom became members. Especially were we happy to organize a Relief Society in Vermont, as this state is the birthplace of our beloved Prophet, who organized the Relief Society. A beautiful spirit was manifested among those present, and we feel that through the help of the Lord we will accomplish great things in the Vermont Relief Society. Already we have members who do not belong to our faith but are earnest workers in our Society. The Relief Society is one method we sisters have of spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ, and it is the desire of this Relief Society to do its bit in furthering the work of the gospel and teaching the plan of salvation to our friends." The officers of this organization are: president, Mrs. Claudia Willett; counselors, Mrs. Lillian La Grange and Mrs, Mary Brown; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Mary Gowett. Guide Lessons for March LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in March) WoMEN OF THE DISPENSATION OF THE MERIDIAN OF TIMES In an article entitled "The Bible's Greatest Women," by Bruce Barton, appearing in Collier's, The National Weekly, for March 27, 1926, we have the results of a vote cast by 10,000 preachers. They are:, 1. Eve. 2. Ruth (who had the highest vote next to Mary, the mother of Jesus.) 3. Hannah, the devoted mother. 4. The one woman whom the Bible calls great. 5. Esther. The remaining five are as follows: 6. Mary, the mother of Jesus, (for whom practically every vote was cast). 7. Mary of Magdala. 8. The Sisters of Bethany. 9. The Woman of Samaria. \ 10. The widow who gave the mites. Taking the judgment of the preachers forwhat it is worth, and thanking Bruce Barton for his contributions, which may be read with profit, we shall attempt to form an acquaintance with the women of the Dispensation of the Meridian of Times. We are at once in harmony with the modern divines in naming Mary the Mother of Jesus as the greatest woman. Here was a mission of higher privilege, if not of greater responsibility, than that of any other woman. She was to bear, care for, teach, and train the Son of God, the "beloved "Son of God, the "Only Begotten" of the Father. The Virgin Her childhood life is shrouded in obscurity. That she grew up in Nazareth seems certain, but as a virgin she was one of the promises of the ages. She was proclaimed in prophecy. (See Isaiah 7:14.) She was seen by the gift seership. (See I Nephi 11:15-20.) She is an ideal for the best of art. She is the subject of enduring literature. The following from the pen of Lew Wallace, in Ben Hur, and copied by Professor Willard Done in Women of the Bible is illustrative of the tribute paid to her by writers: 
 "She was not more than fifteen. Her form, voice, and manner belonged to the period of transition from girlhood. Her face was perfectly oval, her complexion more pale than fair. The nose was faultless; the lips, slightly parted, were full and ripe, giving to the lines of the mouth warmth, tenderness, and trust; the eyes were blue and large, and shaded by drooping lids and long lashes; and, in harmony with all, a flood of golden hair, in the style permitted to Jewish brides, fell unconfined down her back to the pillion on which she sat. The throat and neck had the downy softness sometimes seen, which leaves the artist in doubt whether it is an effect of contour or color. To these charms of feature and person were added others, an indefinable air of purity which only the soul can impart, and of abstraction natural to such as think much of things impalpable. Often, with trembling lips, she raised her eyes to heaven, itself not more deeply blue; often she crossed her hands upon her breast, as in adoration and prayer; often she raised her head like one listening eagerly for a calling voice. Now and then, midst his slow utterance, Joseph turned to look at her, and, catching the expression kindling her face as with light, forgot his theme, and with bowed head, wondering, plodded on." (pp. 157-8.) _ From. Carpenter's World Travels we include a description of Nazareth that will give some idea of its natural beauty, which is similar in all important details to what it was in the time of Christ: "Nazareth by moonlight is wonderfully peaceful. At sunset all business stops, and within an hour or so afterward everyone is in bed. There are few places that seem so far from the strife of the world. Business is swallowed up in the beauties of nature. * * * The sunsets are surpassingly beautiful. The other night the golden beams of the sinking sun seemed to form a halo over this the home of our Savior. There were many white clouds in the sky, which changed first to rose and then to gold, the color growing stronger and stronger, until the whole west was one Clee of fire and molten copper.' It is certain that the well, or spring, in the center of the town is the one from which Mary drew water with the other women of Nazareth. We include Mr. Carpenter's description of this spring: "Tn the center of the town is Mary's Well, or, as it is sometimes called, Jesus' Spring, or Gabriel's Spring. This is undoubtedly authentic, for it is the only spring or watering place Nazareth now possesses or ever has possessed. It is therefore certain that the child Jesus and the Virgin frequented it, and that Mary came here daily for water. This is a fountain rather than a well. The water gushes forth in two streams into a stone basin, whence it flows into a stone-inclosed pool. There are always women with water jars about it, and the scenes of today are probably very much like those of Christ's time." As a betrothed maiden, Mary the mother of Jesus knew what it was to have the implicit confidence of a just man. She had the