GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 41 experience of being at once irinocent in the eyes of the God she worshipped, and guilty in the eyes of the man she loved. She was the recipient of high-minded mercy from. A righteous man, and the miraculous vindication of a just God. The circumstances of her being taken by Joseph as his wife must have placed him in her mind as a divinely appointed guardian and leader and companion. The Mother The Babe of Bethlehem, the "Only Begotten" of God, was but one of several children born and mothered by Mary, the mother of Jesus. From the reading of Mark 6:3 we are led to think of her as the maternal head of a family, several sons and daughters. To some minds, the thought that Mary could be the mother of the direct Son of God, the "Only Begotten," and still remain a woman seems almost sacrilege, but such was the case. She had the joys and sorrows of a mortal mother. Her first born was not all divine; to think of him as such is to disregard the mother in his make-up; to hold that he was perfect would be to declare the perfection of both of his parents. When a boy he chose to absent himself from his parents in a way that caused them grief, three days of torturous anxiety and when his mother brought before him the parental side of the picture, he left off his discussion with the Jewish divines and went home with his parents. Whether the thought or emotion provoked his action, it seems evident that Mary asserted the rights of a mother to put the mother's side of a problem up to a boy and that most ideal of all boys. Responded in ideal conduct. Her motherhood was of a type that could not eliminate anxiety, even though the boy could not appreciate that anxiety. She recognized the rearing of Jesus as a sacred trust and did not feel justified in leaving his care to his father alone, even though she knew him to be the great protector and director of all, her solicitude never deserted her offspring. She even showed anxiety at entertainments. She followed him on his missionary tours. She stood at the cross and heard him say, 'It is finished." As a mother, Mary was no less ideal than as a virgin; she was incomparable.: The Woman The most elect of women. Among the intelligences, if not to be chosen as a rttler, she was chosen to be the mother, the teacher, and the trainer of the supreme leader of men. While motherhood was the culmination of her greatness, behind that motherhood was a great individual, a personality of greatness, and added to that great spiritual personality was the heritage of a noble ancestry. The Biblical genealogies of Jesus, recorded in Matthew I and Luke 3, fail to show her royal descent but that 42 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE descent was proclaimed in the salutation of the angel Gabriel when he declared that her Son should inherit the throne of his. Father David. (See Luke 1:32.) Jesus could not be the son of David on his father's side, the declaration was a divine recognition of Mary's descent from David. When appealed to as the son of David for help, Jesus recognized his high grade eugenic inheritance. (See Matthew 9:27-30, also Jesus the Christ, p. 86.) The fact that Jesus addressed his mother as woman, has been a subject of some discussion. One thing is certain in this matter:, the Christ who loved his father better than he loved his own life could but use the titles of greatest respect when addressing the woman of his father's choice. (John 2:4; John 19:26.) Many times Jesus refers to himself as the Son of Man. (See Cruden's Concordance "Son of Man.) Looked at from a human point of view and believing that he had not a fuman father, one is forced to the conclusion that Son of Man meant Son of the men who were the ancestors of his mother. God was his father but Adam and Noah and Abraham were his grandfathers through his mother. There is, however, another view as to his use of the title Son of Man. It is the view that recognizes God the, Father of Jesus as a perfected Man, and that its use by Jesus was in line with his life of humility among men and high esteem before God. One can scarcely think of a higher appreciation of a father by a son than the recognition of and admiration for the progress made by the former. Without making a decision as to the objective of the use of the term the "Son of Man," we may not be able to decide, but we may safely decide that the Christ reverenced his mother and worshipped his Father. The greatness of the One is incomprehensible, and the greatness of the other is beyond comparison. The one progressed with a perfect manhood to becoming God, and the other miraculusly became the mother of the Son of God and remained a woman still, the greatest of all women." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Are we estranged or drawn nearer to Jesus by studying him as human, in part? 2. What did a betrothal'mean to Mary and Joseph? 3. Explain the expression "put her away privily." Matt. 1:19. (See Jesus the Christ, pp. 83-84.) 4. What is the evidence that Mary the mother of Jesus bore and reared children other than the Son of God? 5. In the light of Luke 1:32, was God, the Father, eugenically careful in selecting the mother for his "Only Begotten?" 6. Name five of the greatest events in the life of Mary the mother of Jesus. 7. From what point of view was the domestic task of Mary different from, and greater than, that of any other mother? , GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 43 LESSON II WORKAND BUSINESS (Second Week in March) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH: Civic Pride lamination of the Fly. (Cooperate with the children in this work. ) I. Il, (II. IV. Destroy breeding places for flies. (a) Remove manure piles. (b) Clean up corrals and barns. (c) Renovate privy vaults.. Kill the first flies. That appear in late Winter and early Spring. One fly killed in February is equal to the killing of many billions of iflies in August or September. Pre- > vention in this work, especially, is much better and more economical than cure, According to the following table printed in The Utah Farmer a few years ago, eight generations of flies are possible in one season, and the progeny of a single female fly, who begins birthday. The quilt top consists of sixty-two embroidered blocks, and was made by members of the board and other friends. A pleasant evening was spent, and a program of music and readings enjoyed by all present.
Montpelier Stake. Montpelier stake has had a very successful year. During February and March four district teachers' conventions were held, with an attendance of 337 members, 6 high council members, and 3 bishops. The outline prepared by the General Board, with several musical numbers, was carried out, after which a get-acquainted social and refreshments were enjoyed. During July and August ward Relief Society conferences were held in all the wards, in connection with the Sunday afternoon sacrament meeting. One ward of the stake has accomplished much good in caring for a motherless family, by doing washing, sewing, mending, and by teaching the children to perform the work and care for the home. Through the efforts of the stake Relief Society president the stake was successful in obtaining a state doctor and nurse, who conducted three health clinics in the stake for children of preschool age. The Relief Society also joined with the other women of the Bear Lake stake in circulating a petition in the county for a school nurse. The result of this was that a nurse was obtained to work in the county for a part of the school year.
ORGANIZATIONS AND RE-ORGANIZATIONS
Morgan Stake Re-organized. The Morgan stake was re-organized on August 22, 1926. Mrs. Mary Chadwick resigned as president, and her resignation was accepted with deep appreciation for the excellent service she has rendered. The following officers were appointed: President, Mrs. Sophia Anderson; counselors, Mrs. Annie Heiner and Mrs. Selma Francis; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lucy Turner; aids, Mrs. May D. Rich, Mrs. Annie S. Dixon, Mrs. Laura Little, Mrs. Bertha Porter, Mrs. Winnie Robison and Mrs. Florence Visick. On Thursday, September 2, a social was given in honor of the retiring president, Mrs. Mary Chadwick, at the home of Counselor Maggie Francis. A very pleasant afternoon was spent, after which a most delicious luncheon was served. Sister Chadwick was presented with three volumes of Edgar A. Guest's poems.
Lyman Stake Organized. On July 18, 1926, the Lyman stake Relief Society was organized in connection with the organization of the new Lyman stake. The wards composing this stake were taken from the Woodruff stake. Mrs. Retta Blackner was appointed president, with the following assistants: counselors, Mrs. Rebecca Bradshaw and Mrs. Mary Hamblin; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Frances Carter.
Nevada Stake Organized. The Nevada stake Relief Society was organized September 18, 1926, when the Nevada stake was organized with wards and branches from the North Weber stake and the California mission. The following Relief Society officers were appointed: president, Mrs. Mary Horlicker; counselors, Mrs. Hortense Nelson and Mrs. Louisa Johnson; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Edna W. Muir.
Eastern States Mission. Burlington, Vermont. The Relief Society of Burlington, Vermont, writes the general office as follows: "For the first time in the history of the Eastern States mission, we have been successful in organizing a Relief Society in the state of Vermont. It was organized June 30, 1926, with 18 present, 13 of whom became members. Especially were we happy to organize a Relief Society in Vermont, as this state is the birthplace of our beloved Prophet, who organized the Relief Society. A beautiful spirit was manifested among those present, and we feel that through the help of the Lord we will accomplish great things in the Vermont Relief Society. Already we have members who do not belong to our faith but are earnest workers in our Society. The Relief Society is one method we sisters have of spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ, and it is the desire of this Relief Society to do its bit in furthering the work of the gospel and teaching the plan of salvation to our friends." The officers of this organization are: president, Mrs. Claudia Willett; counselors, Mrs. Lillian La Grange and Mrs. Mary Brown; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Mary Gowett.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in March)
WOMEN OF THE DISPENSATION OF THE MERIDIAN OF TIMES
In an article entitled "The Bible's Greatest Women," by Bruce Barton, appearing in Collier's, The National Weekly, for March 27, 1926, we have the results of a vote cast by 10,000 preachers. They are:
1. Eve.
2. Ruth (who had the highest vote next to Mary, the mother of Jesus.)
3. Hannah, the devoted mother.
4. The one woman whom the Bible calls great.
5. Esther.
The remaining five are as follows: 6. Mary, the mother of Jesus, (for whom practically every vote was cast). 7. Mary of Magdala. 8. The Sisters of Bethany. 9. The Woman of Samaria. 10. The widow who gave the mites.
Taking the judgment of the preachers for what it is worth, and thanking Bruce Barton for his contributions, which may be read with profit, we shall attempt to form an acquaintance with the women of the Dispensation of the Meridian of Times. We are at once in harmony with the modern divines in naming Mary the Mother of Jesus as the greatest woman. Here was a mission of higher privilege, if not of greater responsibility, than that of any other woman. She was to bear, care for, teach, and train the Son of God, the "beloved Son of God, the "Only Begotten" of the Father.
The Virgin
Her childhood life is shrouded in obscurity. That she grew up in Nazareth seems certain, but as a virgin she was one of the promises of the ages. She was proclaimed in prophecy. (See Isaiah 7:14.) She was seen by the gift of seership. (See I Nephi 11:15-20.) She is an ideal for the best of art. She is the subject of enduring literature. The following from the pen of Lew Wallace, in Ben Hur, and copied by Professor Willard Done in Women of the Bible is illustrative of the tribute paid to her by writers:
"She was not more than fifteen. Her form, voice, and manner belonged to the period of transition from girlhood. Her face was perfectly oval, her complexion more pale than fair. The nose was faultless; the lips, slightly parted, were full and ripe, giving to the lines of the mouth warmth, tenderness, and trust; the eyes were blue and large, and shaded by drooping lids and long lashes; and, in harmony with all, a flood of golden hair, in the style permitted to Jewish brides, fell unconfined down her back to the pillion on which she sat. The throat and neck had the downy softness sometimes seen, which leaves the artist in doubt whether it is an effect of contour or color. To these charms of feature and person were added others, an indefinable air of purity which only the soul can impart, and of abstraction natural to such as think much of things impalpable. Often, with trembling lips, she raised her eyes to heaven, itself not more deeply blue; often she crossed her hands upon her breast, as in adoration and prayer; often she raised her head like one listening eagerly for a calling voice. Now and then, midst his slow utterance, Joseph turned to look at her, and, catching the expression kindling her face as with light, forgot his theme, and with bowed head, wondering, plodded on." (pp. 157-8.)
From Carpenter's World Travels we include a description of Nazareth that will give some idea of its natural beauty, which is similar in all important details to what it was in the time of Christ:
"Nazareth by moonlight is wonderfully peaceful. At sunset all business stops, and within an hour or so afterward everyone is in bed. There are few places that seem so far from the strife of the world. Business is swallowed up in the beauties of nature. *** The sunsets are surpassingly beautiful. The other night the golden beams of the sinking sun seemed to form a halo over this the home of our Savior. There were many white clouds in the sky, which changed first to rose and then to gold, the color growing stronger and stronger, until the whole west was one sheet of fire and molten copper."
It is certain that the well, or spring, in the center of the town is the one from which Mary drew water with the other women of Nazareth. We include Mr. Carpenter's description of this spring:
"In the center of the town is Mary's Well, or, as it is sometimes called, Jesus' Spring, or Gabriel's Spring. This is undoubtedly authentic, for it is the only spring or watering place Nazareth now possesses or ever has possessed. It is therefore certain that the child Jesus and the Virgin frequented it, and that Mary came here daily for water. This is a fountain rather than a well. The water gushes forth in two streams into a stone basin, whence it flows into a stone-inclosed pool. There are always women with water jars about it, and the scenes of today are probably very much like those of Christ's time."
As a betrothed maiden, Mary the mother of Jesus knew what it was to have the implicit confidence of a just man. She had the experience of being at once innocent in the eyes of the God she worshipped, and guilty in the eyes of the man she loved. She was the recipient of high-minded mercy from a righteous man, and the miraculous vindication of a just God. The circumstances of her being taken by Joseph as his wife must have placed him in her mind as a divinely appointed guardian and leader and companion.
The Mother
The Babe of Bethlehem, the "Only Begotten" of God, was but one of several children born and mothered by Mary, the mother of Jesus. From the reading of Mark 6:3 we are led to think of her as the maternal head of a family, several sons and daughters. To some minds, the thought that Mary could be the mother of the direct Son of God, the "Only Begotten," and still remain a woman seems almost sacrilege, but such was the case. She had the joys and sorrows of a mortal mother. Her first born was not all divine; to think of him as such is to disregard the mother in his make-up; to hold that he was perfect would be to declare the perfection of both of his parents. When a boy he chose to absent himself from his parents in a way that caused them grief, three days of torturous anxiety and when his mother brought before him the parental side of the picture, he left off his discussion with the Jewish divines and went home with his parents. Whether the thought or emotion provoked his action, it seems evident that Mary asserted the rights of a mother to put the mother's side of a problem up to a boy and that most ideal of all boys responded in ideal conduct. Her motherhood was of a type that could not eliminate anxiety, even though the boy could not appreciate that anxiety. She recognized the rearing of Jesus as a sacred trust and did not feel justified in leaving his care to his father alone, even though she knew him to be the great protector and director of all, her solicitude never deserted her offspring. She even showed anxiety at entertainments. She followed him on his missionary tours. She stood at the cross and heard him say, "It is finished." As a mother, Mary was no less ideal than as a virgin; she was incomparable.
The Woman
The most elect of women. Among the intelligences, if not to be chosen as a ruler, she was chosen to be the mother, the teacher, and the trainer of the supreme leader of men. While motherhood was the culmination of her greatness, behind that motherhood was a great individual, a personality of greatness, and added to that great spiritual personality was the heritage of a noble ancestry. The Biblical genealogies of Jesus, recorded in Matthew I and Luke 3, fail to show her royal descent but that descent was proclaimed in the salutation of the angel Gabriel when he declared that her Son should inherit the throne of his Father David. (See Luke 1:32.) Jesus could not be the son of David on his father's side, the declaration was a divine recognition of Mary's descent from David. When appealed to as the son of David for help, Jesus recognized his high grade eugenic inheritance. (See Matthew 9:27-30, also Jesus the Christ, p. 86.)
The fact that Jesus addressed his mother as woman, has been a subject of some discussion. One thing is certain in this matter: the Christ who loved his father better than he loved his own life could but use the titles of greatest respect when addressing the woman of his father's choice. (John 2:4; John 19:26.)
Many times Jesus refers to himself as the Son of Man. (See Cruden's Concordance "Son of Man.) Looked at from a human point of view and believing that he had not a human father, one is forced to the conclusion that Son of Man meant Son of the men who were the ancestors of his mother. God was his father but Adam and Noah and Abraham were his grandfathers through his mother. There is, however, another view as to his use of the title Son of Man. It is the view that recognizes God the Father of Jesus as a perfected Man, and that its use by Jesus was in line with his life of humility among men and high esteem before God. One can scarcely think of a higher appreciation of a father by a son than the recognition of and admiration for the progress made by the former.
Without making a decision as to the objective of the use of the term the "Son of Man," we may not be able to decide, but we may safely decide that the Christ reverenced his mother and worshipped his Father. The greatness of the One is incomprehensible, and the greatness of the other is beyond comparison. The one progressed with a perfect manhood to becoming God, and the other miraculously became the mother of the Son of God and remained a woman still, the greatest of all women.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Are we estranged or drawn nearer to Jesus by studying him as human, in part?
2. What did a betrothal mean to Mary and Joseph?
3. Explain the expression "put her away privily." Matt. 1:19. (See Jesus the Christ, pp. 83-84.)
4. What is the evidence that Mary the mother of Jesus bore and reared children other than the Son of God?
5. In the light of Luke 1:32, was God, the Father, eugenically careful in selecting the mother for his "Only Begotten?"
6. Name five of the greatest events in the life of Mary the mother of Jesus.
7. From what point of view was the domestic task of Mary different from, and greater than, that of any other mother?

LESSON II WORK AND BUSINESS (Second Week in March)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH: CIVIC PRIDE
Elimination of the Fly. (Cooperate with the children in this work.)
I. Destroy breeding places for flies. (a) Remove manure piles. (b) Clean up corrals and barns. (c) Renovate privy vaults.
II. Kill the first flies that appear in late Winter and early Spring. One fly killed in February is equal to the killing of many billions of flies in August or September. Prevention in this work, especially, is much better and more economical than cure.
III. According to the following table printed in The Utah Farmer a few years ago, eight generations of flies are possible in one season, and the progeny of a single female fly, who begins laying eggs early in the Spring, may reach into billions by Fall:
1st Generation, one female may lay................30 eggs 2nd Generation.................................1,500 eggs 3rd Generation................................75,000 eggs 4th Generation.............................4,500,000 eggs 5th Generation............................270,000,000 eggs 6th Generation.........................16,200,000,000 eggs 7th Generation........................972,200,000,000 eggs 8th Generation.......................58,332,000,000,000 eggs
IV. Disease germs are carried by fliese.g., the germs of typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery, tuberculosis, etc. Food upon which flies walk may be infected, and should not be eaten. A fly may be walking about in a manure pile or privy vault one minute, and the next minute be found walking over a dish of food.
Slogan"Swat the Fly."

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March)
EDWIN ARLINGTON ROBINSON
Edwin Arlington Robinson might almost be called a "poet's poet," as it is safe to say that he is a very general favorite among poets. In the University of Paris we heard a lecturer refer to him as the first among modern American poets. To call a man a "poet's poet" is in no way an intimation that he will appeal to the masses; more often it is a suggestion that he carries with him a finesse of thought and style that is beyond the average person. However, we feel that there are enough poems of Mr. Robinson's that are fairly simple to answer our purpose in this lesson.
Edwin Arlington Robinson came very nearly being a Christmas baby. He was just three days old on that eventful 25th of December, 1869, that marks the period of his birth. He was born in the village of Head Tide, Maine. When a mere child his family moved to a town no great distance from his birthplace, called Gardiner. He entered Harvard College in 1891. By 1893 he had published a volume of verse. His first representative work was published under the caption of The Children of the Night, which appeared in 1897. Then came a struggle to make a living in the City of New York. Five years passed before the publication of Captain Craig, which appeared in 1902. His condensed method of expression, as shown in Captain Craig drew attention to the fact that America had produced a poet out of the ordinary. President Roosevelt, no doubt having in mind the fact that other American men of letters had been helped in their financial struggles through federal positions, offered him a place in the New York Custom House. Robinson entered the Custom House in 1905, remaining there until 1910. The year he left marks the publication of another volume of poetry known as The Town Down the River.
Yet the book above all others which was to establish his reputation as one to be regarded as foremost among American poets of today, is The Man Against the Sky, published in 1916. This volume was followed by The Three Taverns, in 1920. In all that Robinson has done he has challenged attention, because he is not inclined to merely accept things; he has the type of mind that "probes," turns things over, analyses, examines from many sides. This type of mind is one that is greatly admired in the twentieth century, so that some of Robinson's fame is undoubtedly due to a quality of mind which pleases the "intellectuals" of the day.
From The Man Against the Sky, published by The Macmillan Company, we include the poem entitled "The Gift of God," which is a very truthful revelation of the attitude of an adoring and proud mother, one who sees much more in her own son than is apparent to others:
THE GIFT OF GOD
Blessed with a joy that only she Of all alive shall ever know, She wears a proud humility For what it was that willed it so, That her degree should be so great Among the favored of the Lord That she may scarcely bear the weight Of her bewildering reward.
As one apart, immune, alone, Or featured for the shining ones, And like to none that she has known Of other women's other sons, The firm fruition of her need, He shines anointed; and he blurs Her vision, till it seems indeed A sacrilege to call him hers.
She fears a little for so much Of what is best, and hardly dares To think of him as one to touch With aches, indignities, and cares; She sees him rather at the goal, Still shining; and her dream foretells The proper shining of a soul Where nothing ordinary dwells.
Perchance a canvass of the town Would find him far from flags and shouts, And leave him only the renown Of many smiles and many doubts; Perchance the crude and common tongue Would havoc strangely with his worth; But she, with innocence unwrung, Would read his name around the earth.
And others, knowing how this youth Would shine, if love could make him great, When caught and tortured for the truth Would only writhe and hesitate; While she, arranging for his days What centuries could not fulfil, Transmutes him with her faith and praise, And has him shining where she will.
She crowns him with her gratefulness, And says again that life is good; And should the gift of God be less In him than in her motherhood, His fame, though vague, will not be small, As upward through her dream he fares, Half clouded with a crimson fall Of roses thrown on marble stairs.
"The Master," one of the poems taken from The Town Down the River, published by Charles Scribner's Sons, is another portrait of the immortal Lincoln. It is presumably written by one of his contemporaries shortly after the Civil War:
THE MASTER
A flying word from here and there Had sown the name at which we sneered, But soon the name was everywhere, To be reviled and then revered: A presence to be loved and feared, We cannot hide it, or deny That we, the gentlemen who jeered, May be forgotten by and by.
He came when days were perilous And hearts of men were sore beguiled; And having made his note of us, He pondered and was reconciled. Was ever master yet so mild As he, and so untamable? We doubted, even when he smiled, Not knowing what he knew so well.
He knew that undeceiving fate Would shame us whom he served unsought; He knew that he must wince and wait The jest of those for whom he fought; He knew devoutly what he thought Of us and of our ridicule; He knew that we must all be taught Like little children in a school.
We gave a glamour to the task That he encountered and saw through, But little of us did he ask, And little did we ever do. And what appears if we review The season when we railed and chaffed? It is the face of one who knew That we were learning while we laughed.
The face that in our vision feels Again the venom that we flung, Transfigured to the world reveals The vigilance to which we clung. Shrewd, hallowed, harassed, and among The mysteries that are untold, The face we see was never young, Nor could it ever have been old.
For he, to whom we had applied Our shopman's test of age and worth, Was elemental when he died, As he was ancient at his birth: The saddest among kings of earth, Bowed with a galling crown, this man Met rancor with a cryptic mirth, Laconicand Olympian.
The love, the grandeur, and the fame Are bounded by the world alone; The calm, the smouldering, and the flame Of awful patience were his own: With him they are forever flown Past all our fond self-shadowings, Wherewith we cumber the Unknown As with inept Icarian wings.
For we were not as other men: 'Twas ours to soar and his to see. But we are coming down again, And we shall come down pleasantly; Nor shall we longer disagree On what it is to be sublime, But flourish in our perigee And have one Titan at a time.
In the poem entitled "An Old Story" taken from The Children of the Night, published by Charles Scribner's Sons, we have condensed, in poetic form, the oft-told tale of one who resents the help and associations of a valuable friend, oblivious of his great worth, until after death:
AN OLD STORY
Strange that I did not know him then, That friend of mine! I did not even show him then One friendly sign;
But cursed him for the ways he had To make me see My envy of the praise he had For praising me.
I would have rid the earth of him Once, in my pride! *** I never knew the worth of him Until he died.
Edwin Arlington Robinson is distinguished among poets for his ability to draw portraits. No discussion of the poet would be complete that did not recognize the master's hand in this respect. His portraits are not of the ordinary sort, but are what are designated as "psychological portraits." He has given to us a whole gallery of paintings that use words rather than canvas and pigment. As an illustration of his portrait-painting we cite "Miniver Cheevy" taken from The Town Down the River, published by Charles Scribner's Sons. Miniver Cheevy was one of those dreamers who dreamed of the past and wished he were of it, and made a failure of the present that offers, in many ways, blessings that the past did not contain:
MINIVER CHEEVY
Miniver Cheevy, child of scorn, Grew lean while he assailed the seasons; He wept that he was ever born, And he had reasons.
Miniver loved the days of old When swords were bright and steeds were prancing; The vision of a warrior bold, Would set him dancing.
Miniver sighed for what was not, And dreamed, and rested from his labors; He dreamed of Thebes and Camelot, And Priam's neighbors.
Miniver mourned the ripe renown That made so many a name so fragrant; He mourned Romance, now on the town, And Art, a vagrant.
Miniver loved the Medici, Albeit he had never seen one; He would have sinned incessantly Could he have been one.
Miniver cursed the commonplace And eyed a khaki suit with loathing; He missed the mediaeval grace Of iron clothing.
Miniver scorned the gold he sought, But sore annoyed was he without it; Miniver thought, and thought, and thought, And thought about it.
Miniver Cheevy, born too late, Scratched his head and kept on thinking; Miniver coughed, and called it fate, And kept on drinking.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give illustrations of how the name of Lincoln has been "reviled and revered."
2. What thought has the author in mind when he writes the lines "That we, the gentlemen who jeered, may be forgotten by and by."
3. Sum up the pictures of the past presented in "Miniver Cheevy."
4. Give some information about "Thebes and Camelot, and Priam's neighbors."
5. What does the author mean when he says "He missed the mediaeval grace of iron clothing."
6. Do you think there is any irony in the poem "The Gift of God?"
7. Is there anywhere an intimation that this adored son might fall short of real greatness were he put to the test?

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March)
EMOTIONAL PROBLEMSPHILIP AND CLARENCE
The emotional life of early childhood is an important field of thought and research among the students of mental hygiene. The emotional experiences of infancy and childhood control, to a great extent, the attitudes and behavior of adult life. Childhood fears, doubts, anxieties, angers and despairs, not only upset the child during the period of the emotion, but are often the beginnings of unwholesome emotional attitudes or patterns. Much has been written and said regarding the relative importance of heredity and environment in the development of the individual. It is not the purpose of this discussion to revive the question, but merely to point out that much conduct attributed to heredity is really traceable to the early emotional environment of the child.
That children are born with certain physical and mental equipment is generally accepted. That the degree of health and mentality are important factors in determining successful social adjustment is also recognized; but the possession or lack of health and mentality offer no full explanation for the conduct of individuals. Persons of normal physical and mental development present a variety of pictures. In the same family there may be business failures and successes; there may be sad, melancholy characters, and happy, cheerful one; there may be quarrelsome, selfish, disagreeable persons, and generous, good-natured ones. The explanation of these various types of behavior and attitudes is found largely in the emotional life of the individual.
It is true there are certain inherent trends that may be considered inherited patterns of conduct. Pugnacity, or curiosity, or fear may be one of the dominant instincts of an individual, and, as such, may be considered one of the predispositions of conduct. But these trends, even if assumed to be of inherited origin, are not fixed and unchangeable. They may be developed, inhibited or modified by the controlling factors in the environment. The conversion of such instinctive, hereditary trends to wholesome modes of habitual response should be the aim of child training in the home, and the main objective of education.
Psychiatrists state that it is not difficult to show that an individual's behavior toward his fellow beings depends mostly on his early relations towards his parents. If a child is given too much attention and affection, he develops too great a dependence on his parents and may never learn to compete successfully with his playmates in school and in the adult world of affairs. He develops an exaggerated opinion of his importance, and never gains the power to gain independence from the parental ties. This is especially a danger in a home where there is an only child, and the parents lavish their attention and love on the one boy or girl. The picture of such a coddled child is a familiar one, and his inability to break away from the "mother's apron strings" expresses his weakness and futility.
The child who is criticized and corrected constantly also develops unwholesome emotional patterns. His constant sense of failure, and his repeated humiliations soon make of him a bundle of fears and repressions. Not wishing to expose himself to further humiliations, he unconsciously refrains from new trials and new experiences. The quiet, timid person, who is regarded as a little stupid by his family and schoolmates, may be a bright, normal person, afraid to express himself because of painful childhood experiences.
An unhappy home also leaves its mark on the developing child. Scenes between parents, undue anger, and general domestic infelicity cause the child to experience anger, fear, hatred, etc. He unconsciously takes sides in a family quarrel and develops an unwholesome antagonism toward one parent, which will express itself toward that parent and the sex represented all through life.
Emotional experiences, which are as much a part of the child's environment as the physical environment, are extremely important in modifying his instinctive trends and in molding wholesome patterns of conduct. Experiences which give a child an exaggerated sense of his importance, such as pampering during illness, or too much attention by solicitous parents, give him wrong attitudes to face the world. Experiences which humiliate him, which give him a feeling of inferiority tend to frustrate normal expression and development. Experiences of sorrow and unhappiness may color a child's life with somber colors or may develop an unwholesome attitude toward persons or institutions that represent, to him, the causes of the unhappiness.
The boy Philip is an example of the harm over-solicitous parents can do. He was a six-year-old boy, well physically and normal intellectually, but he was the victim of severe headaches that would attack him at any time. A history of the family attitude toward him when he had his first headache attack reveals the cause of their recurrence. He had observed the attention that was bestowed upon his mother when she had an attack of headache. The suggestibility of childhood made it only natural that he should be similarly ill, and when he was rewarded with the satisfaction of like attentions and concern, the pleasant experience became a frequent one. Philip did not lie consciously about his headaches. It is the unconscious that provided him with the mechanism for receiving the desired attention. The headaches and nausea were real, but the cause of them was not a physical but a psychical one. Such unconsciously simulated illnesses are not uncommon, and when the desire to gain some end or to escape some unpleasant experience can not be satisfied in a normal way, the unconscious mind devises abnormal means of attaining the desired end. Physical manifestations of pain and illness, which seem very real to the individual, may have no physical basis but are mechanisms of gaining certain ends not consciously recognized by the individual. These physical manifestations induced by some unconscious motive are termed "hysteria." Just as Philip became the victim of headaches to gain attention, other persons will induce nausea, fainting, deafness, paralysis, etc., to gain some unconscious desire. That these mechanisms become habitual with some persons is quite apparent. The really healthy child, who develops illness when crossed, or thwarted, or corrected, is developing unwholesome mental habits. The use of ill health as a tool to gain any end should be discouraged. The treatment, as in the case of Philip, is to give the person an insight into his unconscious motives, and to make the use of illness ineffective. If the person does not gain the attention, or the visit to the picture show, or the new shoes, or whatever may be the end he is trying to gain, he will abandon the mechanism of illness as a futile one. Encouraged by securing the desired end, he may become a victim of a series of illnesses, that will make wholesome, normal, physical and mental development impossible.
Clarence, another six-year-old boy, was also the victim of parental lack of understanding of emotional problems of childhood. He was the youngest of four children and was considered slow and backward by his parents. He talked very little, was shy, and stubborn. His shyness and his family's criticism of him made a vicious circle. The more he was criticized the less power he had to express himself. He became unresponsive, shutting out the entire outer world which had brought him humiliation and unhappiness. The story of the treatment is enlightening, for the moment that he discovered someone thought well of him and believed in him, he found courage and a desire to express himself. When the teasing at home was discontinued, he entirely broke away from the shackles of fear and shame that had kept him bound.
Clarence represents an extreme case, but he typifies the experience of the child who is made to feel inferior. If the child really has some mental or physical handicap, of which he naturally is sensitive, he should be given every opportunity to find expression and the satisfaction of successes to overcome his feeling of inferiority. But not only handicapped children are made victims of a sense of inferiority, normal children by unwise treatment can be given this same discouraging, stultifying feeling of helplessness and uselessness. Criticism, "teasing," and parental severity can make a child afraid to express himself. Severe parents may have "good children," in the sense that they are quiet and unobtrusive, but these "good" children may be frustrated in their normal development by the fear of family criticism. They may become shy, and reticent, and never develop their real powers and possibilities. They become afraid of the experiences that stimulate expression and growth, just as Clarence became the speechless, reticent victim of his humiliations.
Reference: Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile, pages 185-192.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. What is meant by inherent trends of behavior?
2. Show how early emotional experiences may change or modify these instinctive trends.
3. How do over-solicitous parents often hinder the child's development?
4. Why is an only child in danger of developing unwholesome attitudes?
5. What is the danger of too much criticism of children?
6. How does quarrelling in the home affect the children?
7. What was the cause of Philip's headaches? How were they treated?
8. How should manifestations of illness, which have no physical bases, be treated?
9. Why was Clarence considered stupid?
10. How was he freed from his feeling of inferiority?
Salt Lake Costume Co. DEALERS IN MASQUERADE COSTUMES Play Books, Operas, Operettas, Toupees, Masks, Carnival Goods Women in Utah have been progressive and shown their place to leadership both local and National. For that reason we feel sure our service and costumes will appeal to you. JOHN HANSEN, Pres. And Mgr.