During our conventions we have been talking on the Ten Commandments, and when I was going out into the Carbon district not long ago, one of our leading brethren said in a conversation to me, "I am surprised to know how few of our children really know and understand the Ten Commandments." Surely President Williams was inspired when she suggested that we take for this year's topic in our convention work, "The Application of the Ten Commandments to our Daily Life." Surely we should teach our children not merely to say the Ten Commandments by rote, but we should teach them in their deepest meaning. The first part refers to respect and duty to our heavenly Father. The next part refers to our duty to our fellow-men, and we understand it in a way the same as the commandment that Jesus gave to the people when he was on the earth, when he said, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Matthew 22:37-39.) Let us take our children and grandchildren and teach them the Ten Commandments. If everyone in the world lived according to the Ten Commandments, our prisons would not be filled as they are and the almshouses would not be needed, and there would be much more joy and happiness in life; and until we find a nation willing to obey the Ten Commandments and the commandments Jesus gave, we cannot hope to have the satisfaction and happiness that is intended for us. The Prophet Joseph Smith said, "Man is that he might have joy." And it is in these gatherings that we are studying how best we can obtain joy, and it is only through living the gospel, as it was restored through our Prophet Joseph Smith, that we can obtain that joy.
COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON
We have had for many years lessons and talks on personal hygiene and hygiene in the home, but we have not had any community hygiene, so next year we hope to have this subject under the topic of "Civic Pride" given as our Relief Society visiting teachers' topics. I think that in our traveling through the wards and in our own homes, all of us will be able to see how much more lovely our communities could be if we gave just a little more care to the yards and streets and public grounds. I believe all of us have been shocked to see how our parks have sometimes looked after a celebration, with papers and boxes and litter all over; and our school grounds are frequently not as beautiful as they might be. We all know that in the homes, it is the mother who organizes the work and who sets the work in motion, so we call now for our Relief Society mothers to organize this community work. It is not that you shall do the work yourselves, for we have growing up in our midst children who could be taught to do it, and who will be our citizens in a few years, and the training that we give them in citizenship will very materially affect them in later life.
A few years ago the citizens of New York City set about to clean up their city. They found the children were not interested, so, in some localities they organized them for the work, and this is the idea we would like to give to you. The children were brought together for organization; they elected their own officers and made their own reports. These clubs grew so popular in the districts where they were used that other schools and other children asked to have clubs organized and Colonel Waring, who had charge of the work, said, "Why do you want a club?" The children said, "There are boys in our district who throw banana and orange peelings on the street, and we want to reform them." He said, "Maybe they do not want to be reformed." The boys said, "Yes, they do, we have asked them, and they say they want to do right." Boys are not wicked, but they are so full of energy and if there isn't opportunity for them to work their energy off in good work, they usually do it in mischief. So we ask that the Relief Society take the place in the community that the mother takes in the home, and that you appeal to the Primary, the Boy Scouts and other agencies, that you may put this work over in a real campaign.
A survey in delinquency was made in one of the large cities recently, and the captains of the police reported that they found the most trouble with restless boys, who lived in districts where there were no trees or parks, and where the streets were not kept up. I believe if we could get proper civic ideals before the boys and girls in an attractive way, that they would respond. In some places where these campaigns have been put on, they have had real parades. The boys would march and carry banners about loyalty to the city, and the girls would ride in trucks and sing street-cleaning songs. In our state in some localities we have difficulty with flies and mosquitoes, and there is nothing that would be so helpful as to organize the boys and girls to get rid of the breeding places of flies and mosquitoes. We have reports from different states stating that the childrenthe boys and girlshave almost entirely stamped out the mosquito nuisance through their activities. Children might be given prizes and badges for such work. Children should not, however, be left to work alone. The cooperation of everybody should be secured in civic work.
I remember one town which was known as a tin can city because there were so many tin cans around the streets and yards. One of our stake presidents has been carrying on clean-up campaigns. She arranged for the purchase of a beautiful silver loving cup to be awarded to the person having the finest looking yardthe cup to be held for one year. She brought in people from outside the districts to act as judges. There has been great improvement in this locality as a result of this effort. We recommend that you make the most of the teachers' topics this year, that you put forth earnest effort during the year to improve the appearance of the communities in which you live, and in doing so that you enlist the support of all the agencies in your localities, including those for children.
SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION Report by Mrs. Magdalene Sessions, former president of Relief Societies of South African Mission
It is a wonderful thing to come back home again. It is a great satisfaction to come back and find the strength and hope that we expected to find, and to find the ideals of the gospel upheld, to find people working as hard as they can to keep the laws and commandments, and to help to roll on the work of the Lord.
It is nearly six years since we went to South Africa. It was a land of mystery to me until I got there. There were no elders when we arrived, as they had been called home during the war and had not been replaced. In fact, elders were supposed to be excluded from Africa, as they did not have legal admission. The first thing necessary was to make arrangements whereby the elders could enter Africa. Through the faith and prayers of the Saints, and through the help of Senator Smoot and Secretary Charles Evans Hughes, and through the work of the officials of the South African government, and the efforts that President Sessions made for this great blessing, we have now legal permission for our elders to enter Africa. More than that, we are given every consideration and privilege accorded to any other religious organization in Africa. These blessings have come as a miracle. It is a miracle to see those men who were very bitter and prejudiced, receive our missionaries and help to extend our missionary work. We now count them as our very good friends. When we left South Africa many of those who were very prejudiced at first, came and said that whenever they could do anything for our missionary work in Africa it would be their pleasure.
Africa is not America. There is as much difference as one can expect. We did not labor among the colored people, but among the European people. There are about one and one half million European people in Africa, and many times that number of colored people. We do not deal with the colored people at all. In fact, such things as jungles and savages we do not meet in our missionary work. We have to go a long way out of the natural paths to meet up with these things in Africa.
The social and economic conditions are not the same as they are here. There is a high standard of education. The schools are very good, singing, dancing, elocution and the arts being developed to a very high degree, but we find a great lack of the high ideals in the home life, which we are taught in the Church. One of the things that we encounter is class distinction. There are three classes of European people therethe working class, the professional class, and the wealthy or retired class. And these different classes do not mix any more than they have to. It is a great condescension for those of the so-called upper classes to associate in a social way with those of the lower classes, and it is rarely done. We find this a great difficulty in our work, because we did not belong to any of these classes. They all received us very nicely, however, and we found people who were well educated and who claimed to belong to the superior class, who would listen very sympathetically to us, and admire our work, and support us openly among their friends. Some of them have been interested enough in it to say, "We are going to come and help you," but when the time came for them to come out, and they realized there was brotherhood and sisterhood in the Church, and that in our opinion one is not better than another in the eyes of our heavenly Father, it was a different thing. Very few could overcome that idea of superiority.
The women in Africa do not have the same status that they have in America. There is not the liberty and life that there is here. It took me a long time to realize the advantages we have. I once took a railroad journey with the president of the women's work there. She had been to America to attend conventions held here. She was telling me of her experiences in trying to enlist the help of Parliament, in favor of woman suffrage. They said, "Miss Solomon, if we do decide to help you, it will be with this one condition, that the age limit for women must be five or ten years greater than that for men, to enable them to vote intelligently." This, notwithstanding the fact that the colored native men have the vote, although most of them can neither read nor write, and look upon election day as a day to drink and get a free motor ride to the polls, and perhaps a shilling or two for their votes.
There is no civic work to speak of, and the people need it sorely, especially the working class. They do things ignorantly. The death rate is exceptionally high. There is a great amount of disease which could be counteracted if people only knew more. There are charitable institutions, homes for old people, homes for incurables, homes for boys, homes for girls, numbers of them in a city about the size of Salt Lake. This condition we must attribute to improper family life and ignorance in knowing how to make a living and care for children.
As soon as a family there arises to any affluence at all, the first thing they do is to hire a servant, which can be procured at from $5 to $15 a month, the price varying according to the capabilities of the servant. People whom we would think had no business hiring a servant, were doing so. There is no domesticity among the people. They would much rather say that they hire two or more servants than to say that they do all their own work. If they do all their own work, they say it on the side. It seems good to come back home and find people proud of the work they can do.
There is another drawback there in family life. Much of the food that is brought into the home (especially among the poor people whom the missionaries meet most) is ready prepared. There are several reasons for this. One is that cooking is supposed to be done by hired help or colored help, and if one cannot afford a cook who can make cake or bread, these articles must be bought. Many of the homes are not provided with proper cooking facilities. If there were some help such as we have in abundance in this country, these things would be counteracted, and they will be in time.
In the Relief Society work we have to hunt out the problems that need solving and try our best to solve them. There is a great deal of work, as you can see, to be done by our organization. We explained the work as best we could to the members of our Church, and we received united support. The sisters seemed to welcome the opportunity to become members of this organization. We had to decide what kind of work would be best to take up. We could not, at first, follow specifically the lessons outlined in the Relief Society Magazine, but we did try to live by the spirit of Relief Society work. We selected, as lessons for the organizations, different topics because we seemed to have a different class of people in each branch.
We organized a branch of the Relief Society in every branch of the mission. For instance, one group of newly baptized members of the Church decided as their series of lessons they would study the history of the Church, and they completed it in a fine way. Another little group composed of older members of the Church, did some fine research work in genealogy; and so our work was chosen according to the group of people with whom we had to deal.
Then we found that the most important meeting ground of all was the sewing work, and in order that that would not be just miscellaneous we tried to supply each organization with a competent instructor so that our sewing would be systematic. We were successful in this, and when we had sales or bazaars, our articles were sold faster than we could supply them, and we could hardly hold subsequent sales, as people would call at the homes of the members for the articles as soon as they were made.
We needed some money in our organization but did not feel that we could ask for donations just at first, and so we planned monthly food sales, and once a month, after Bible class, every member would bring the thing she knew how to cook best, and along with this she would bring the actual cost of the article which she had made, and which cost was refunded to her. It would then be sold at a slight profitbut at a smaller price than it could be bought from the shop. This profit went into the treasury, and furnished us with money, and with something morean interchange of ideas and recipes for cooking. The women soon found that homemade food articles could be done at home better and cheaper than by buying from the shop. These food sales have gone on for five years and we never had anything left over.
Underlying this practical work we have had another lessonwe have learned the value of sisterhood. That is the biggest thing we had to strive for in Africa. Women generally never meet together like this meeting today. There is never an occasion for women to meet together unless at some social function. Getting them together and learning to appreciate the things their neighbors know, and learning to love each other, is the greatest accomplishment we have had there among Relief Society women. When I left, practically all of the branches were running smoothly. Our sisters there love the Relief Society work, and I love it too, and I hope and pray that it may succeed as those who have charge would have it. I cannot tell you how much I appreciate the inspiration I have received from the Relief Society Magazine, and from the letters I have received from those who have charge of the work. I have come back with this testimony, that those who preside are called of God and they are inspired, and there is nothing that they ask us to do that we can afford to lose sight of. I have learned to love and appreciate the gospel and all that it involves.
EASTERN STATES MISSION Miss Elizabeth Skolfield, former president of Relief Societies of Eastern States Mission
I am very grateful for the privilege of engaging in Relief Society work, and for what it has meant to me in my mission. It is quite a difficult problem in the Eastern States where there are thirty-three millions of people, and our members, at the most, number three hundred women. However, these women who belong to the Church of Jesus Christ are holding high the torch and the light of the truth of the gospel.
We have been carrying on an intense program since the first of January, trying to put into effect the original purposes of the organization of the Relief Society, namely to care for those in need, to foster a love for religion, education, culture and refinement, and to assist in strengthening the morals and virtues of the people.
This morning my heart was made glad as I listened to the splendid reports that were made of the clinical work that you are able to do here in Zion. In the Eastern States the members are in some instances in such humble circumstances that their charity offering at each weekly meeting is only two or three pennies each, and oftentimes these two or three pennies are what they must save from the household expenses. Because of this condition there is not much charitable work done. Therefore, it gives us joy when we have reports come in, as we have just had, telling of so many clothes purchased for children who have no parents or whose mothers work, and of so many bowls of soup given out, etc., etc. Every month, every Society in the Eastern States has before them the object of doing some charity. In some Societies $2.50 a month is considered a great sum to devote to this cause. This may seem a small amount to us, who are so richly blessed that we cannot half appreciate the means that we have for doing good. This charity is also expressed in kind words and freedom of opinion, and in striving to crowd out all petty annoyance and jealousy. The sisters have shown a beautiful spirit, and I wish to commend them for overcoming the small things that come in the way to mar the beauty of the work.
The second admonition of the Prophet to foster a love for religion, education, culture and refinement, has been followed in our mission, and has brought about excellent results. I have in mind a conference where some of the members have never had the privilege of going to school, and the Relief Society Magazine has been a God-send to them that I have not the words to describe. They have learned to do much of their reading from it. If women are the home builders, they surely should do as the Prophet Joseph Smith has said, "Seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom: seek learning, even by study and also by faith." (Doctrine and Covenants 88:118.) Many of our Societies do not have instructors to teach their classes, and the missionary girls and the elders are doing a great service by acting as teachers. They are also training the people to teach themselves. Sometimes our members have to go as far as twenty-five miles to attend a branch meeting, but they feel it is well worth the effort. One president goes thirty-five miles, but she is always there, and hence receives the blessing of the Lord.
Relief Society women in the Eastern States are doing all they can in their branches to hold up and to maintain the highest social standards. They seek constantly to strengthen those influences which tend to foster ideal family and community life. In one small community in West Pennsylvania, there are ten large families which form two branches of about fifty members each. Because of the fine lives they are living they are a notable strength to their community. They are letting their lights so shine that they are glorifying their Father in heaven.
Membership in the Relief Society in the Eastern States mission meansa chance to develop, a chance to work, and a chance to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. The mark of a true Latter-day Saint has been defined by one of our great leaders as the desire he or she has to share the gospel. One of the ways we have had of doing this is by giving once a month a non-members meeting, with a well planned program. These meetings have been particularly successful in Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York and Boston.
I must not forget to report that one of the things that has inspired us most is the "