To the Sego-Lily." Mrs. Hazel T. Latimer, of Springville, Utah, receives honorable mention for a poem entitled, "Interpreted;" Mrs. Maggie I. Bentley, of Colonia Juarez, Mexico, receives honorable mention for a poem entitled, "An Ode to Eliza Roxey Snow;" and Mrs. Blanche Kendall McKey, of Rexburg, Idaho, receives honorable mention for a poem entitled, "Mother."
Two of the five persons mentioned are known writers at the present time. The committee having charge of the 1926 contest consisted of Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Lalene H. Hart and Mrs. Barbara H. Richards. The judges of the contest were Professor Herman Wells, of the L. D. S. U.; Mrs. Johanna Sprague, of the Salt Lake Free Public Library Board, and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine of the Relief Society General Board. The General Board congratulates the winners.
Editorial Notes
Our editorial states that we would include a brief sketch of Dr. Valeria H. Parker, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, in the current issue, but the space is not sufficient, and consequently we shall have to carry it over to the March issue.
Mrs. May Booth Talmage's travel article on Holland and Denmark will be followed by one on Norway and Sweden. We regret not being able to publish the Norway and Sweden article earlier, but we have had to give the conference news right of way in December and January.
Correction of Literature Lesson for February: We regret that Edna St. Vincent Millay's name got into print spelled incorrectly.
My Husband Mary C. Martineau
His love is like a great warm coat, That keeps out the wintry weather; It folds me round with its comfort dear, Though the storms of life may gather.
Though my heart may weep, it still is warm And trustingly plans the morrow, For the great coat of his love protects, And heals my every sorrow.
His love is like the sunshine warm And the best of my nature keeps blooming, For it's easy to smile and be sweet and true When the sun of your life keeps wooing.
His smile brings back a smile in return, His praise crushes dead all repining And my soul climbs up to new heights every day To keep my sun ever shining.

Response
CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Heber J. Grant, President
Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, 155 No. 33 Main Street, City.
Salt Lake City, Utah. December 1st, 1926.
Dear Sister Richards:
Thanks for the call which you and other sisters made on me at the Church office on my birthday, and also for the poem written on my seventieth birthday by your good self. I can assure you, dear Sister Richards, that I appreciate beyond expression the love and good will of my many friends. It is natural, I believe, for everybody to "love to be loved," and I feel that the Saints have extended to me their love and confidence so completely and so fully that I have not the language with which to express my gratitude.
I earnestly pray the Lord to bless you and all of the good sisters who endorsed your poem, as well as all who would have been glad to endorse it had the opportunity reached themwith peace, prosperity and happiness during the remainder of life, and above all I hope and pray most earnestly that there may be an eternity of joy for each and all of you in the life to come with your loved ones who have gone before.
Sincerely your friend and brother, (Signed) HEBER J. GRANT.
Relief Society Conference
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT
Thus far we have been spiritually fed in our conference. President Williams sends her love and her greetings and of course her regrets that she is unable to be with you upon this occasion, on account of the serious illness of her mother, and I know she is grateful for your love and your prayers.
Spring blossomed into Summer and Summer has gone since we last met, and in the meantime we have been carrying on the work that has been expected of us as Relief Society women. I once heard Sister Robison give the following quotation: "The spirit of any event must be kept by the adherents of that event in order that it may not die." And so we meet from time to time, that the spirit of the Relief Society shall not die.
We listened this morning, in our officers' meeting, to a very splendid program, and I wish it had been possible that every member of the Relief Society could have heard the addresses that were made; but inasmuch as it was an officers' meeting, and the minds of our officers are very fertile, I am sure the messages given will be carried to you. The reports given of the work that has been accomplished is evidence in and of itself of the very choice class of able women we have in the stakes and wards who carry on the work. It has been our privilege to visit some of you during the past few weeks in your and we hope to continue our program until all the stakes have been visited.
It seems to me, the older I grow, the more I am impressed with the wonderful work of the Relief Society, and with the wonderful work of the Latter-day Saints. It grows upon me, and I am thankful to my heavenly Father for it. The other day I had the privilege of driving from Provo to Salt Lake City in company with my husband and some visitors from Los Angeles. As we drove along we tried to describe the beauties of our country, the mountain tops, the lakes and the streams. One of the men, a very busy business man from Los Angeles, said, "I am interested in all that, but I am more interested in something else. Can you tell me what it is that would induce your people to sacrifice two years of their time to go into the mission field to preach what you call the gospel, and pay their own expenses?" Of course, we tried to explain to him why it is that we feel it our duty and our privilege and our obligation to carry the message of the gospel into the world. We told him that if we did not know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that the plan of life and salvation had not been revealed anew to the people known as the Latter-day Saints, there would be nothing that could induce us to go, but that we feel that we have been warned and that it is our duty and our privilege to go and warn our neighbors. The man said this partly explained it, and yet he could not understand itit seemed too great a sacrifice, it took so much money, and still he and his wife thought it was marvelous. He said another thing: "I have come to know your people by this reputationthat they are a people of integrity, that their word can be depended upon and no matter where I go I find that reputation among the 'Mormon' people."
If this reputation is to continue, and I am sure it will, we have great obligations as mothers in the home. We need to teach our children honesty.