[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: (CONTINUED FROM PAGE 91) | Author: Unknown]

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 91)
ANGELINA.
	After a few days spent at head-quarters,
enjoying the hospitality of the saints, and
the delicious rest thus afforded us; after our
long and tedious journey, we started again
to a distant valley in company with some
of the older inhabitants, to form a new
settlement. As we left the comfortable
city, to march through the dreary wilder-
ness, I thought of what seemed to me a
still greater hardship and a still more dreary
journey, of our father Adam and our
mother Eve when, for so small an offence,
they were driven from Paradise.
	Weary and foot-sore we reached our
destination. It was a naked valley! Sur-
rounded by rocky mountains. Here we
sat down and wept (at least I did) then
prayed and sang praise to God.
	The leader of our party, a man made
venerable by wisdom and years, then rose
up—exhorted and instructed us how to
draw from the elements the necessities of
life. Then raised his hands and blest the
land, and the fountains of water, in the
name of Israel’s God.
	Here we essayed to live in tents and
wagons, huts or bowers, as best we could.
We were comparatively happy, while try-
ing to make each other so, and every one
of us labored with all our might to make a
field and plant it.
	For two full years we lived, in a tent, but

[Column 2]
by that time many comfortable houses had
sprung up, as it were, out of the ground;
and soon to our joy we found that the few
Redmen, of that solitary place, were glad
for us and the wilderness was beginning,
indeed, to blossom as the rose.
	We all lived near together for mutual
defence, and our Sabbaths were spent in
holy communion and worship. We
realized the blessing of heaven upon the
land, for it yielded in rich abundance.
	About this time I wrote the following
letter to my mother.

My Very Dear Mother:—
	I have written to you twice before, but
received no reply, my concern for you in-
creases, but still I cling to the hope that
this will find you alive and well.
	Through mercy I am well and happy,
more so than I have ever been before.
	It is now nearly seven years since I left
old England and came to this mountain
valley, then a bleak and barren wilderness,
but I came here with a company of saints
in obedience to the law of the Lord; and
He has greatly blest us for our obedience,
and has blest the land for our sake; so
that it now abounds with corn, fruit, and
vegetables of almost every kind. All
kinds of trees are growing up and bid fair
to become as large and beautiful as those
that surrounded the home of my childhood.
Children too are multiplying around us, I
have already added three to the number of
your grand-children, and often wish I had
you here to help me manage them.
	Dear mother, I have learned by experience
that it is good to try my best to be a saint
of God in very deed. Let us continue to
pray for each other that we may be delivered
from all error and false doctrine. That our
minds may be enlightened to know the
truth. To understand the will of the
Lord and do it.
	Dear mother, I can solemnly assure you
that I do know by the gift and power of the
Holy Ghost, that God has commenced His
marvelous work of the last days. To
build up, and establish His kingdom upon
the earth, for the salvation of all who
believe, and obey the gospel of his son; and
gather out from among the nations to the
place of His appointing. For surely
destruction will come upon the wicked.
	Dear mother, let me ask, are you not a
believer in Jesus? O mother! I know that
you believe. What does the Lord require
of you then? But first to obey the first
principles of the gospel, faith, repentance,
and baptism for the remission of our sins,
and the laying on of hands for the gift
of the Holy Ghost. Then shall it be given
you, to know for yourself, that your sins
are forgiven and that this is the kingdom
of God.
	With reference to the long journey to
this place, it is a great undertaking; but
the Lord, who has commanded, is our help-
er, and our experience in all our travels is
more of joy than sorrow. The whole
journey I managed, being young and
strong, to suffer but little. My greatest
pain was leaving you, it was to me a great
and abiding sorrow. But on board ship I
found plenty of work to do in assisting the
overtasked mothers, in the care of their
children. Wherever I could I lent a help-
ing hand and found comfort and peace in
trying to comfort others. Our land journey
was far more pleasant, we knew that we
were doing right, and there was love and
rejoicing generally in the Camp of Israel.


