[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE beautiful Pansy Calendar of Grant
Bro’s. is a handsome souvenir of that en-
terprising firm, and will not only be a very
useful article of household value and an
ornament too, but is undoubtedly a good
advertising investment. It is certainly a
very lovely thing and not likely to get out
of sight on account of its size or lack of
beauty. We tender our thanks for the
holiday remembrance, and wish the firm
success in business ventures for the coming
year.
	THE stores and shop windows are bright
and gay with holiday goods of all descrip-
tions. Never before were there so many
beautiful things displayed as one sees
nowadays. The book stores however are
the most interesting to the writer, Duncan
Mc’ Allister is making a fine display, keeps
the newest books, and magazines, by the
most popular authors and editors, and has
many handsome and unique souvenirs and
gift-books of the newest patterns and in
great variety. Hargetts Bro’s have also a
fine colleotion in the same line' and style of


goods, and last but not least by any means
C. R. Savage’s Bazaar and Art Gallery is
packed full of everything nice and new in
that line and the genial proprietor, who has
cartered to the public taste for a quarter of a
century deserves the patronage of his old
friends and new ones too. His selections
in the way of books are all that could be
desired and his toys are almost more, for the
variety and profusion bewilder the purchaser
completely. Altogether Salt Lake cannot
complain of its book-sellers, for they keep
the market well supplied with fine stationery
and current literature.
	THE Woman’s Cooperative Store has
Christmas goods of a variety of kinds as
well as other goods for ladies and children
furnishes dress materials and trimmings and
the Dress-making parlors of the establish-
ment are ir. running order, employing
competent help and guarantee satisfaction
in the work. In Millinery also the store is
not behind other shops, and it is a good
place to get hats and bonnets, besides wor
men should patronize institutions managed
and conducted by women who have stepped
forward’ in the matter of business. Go to
the Woman’s Store and see what there is to
buy there before purchasing elsewhere.
	THE Juvenile Instructor is a good place
to do business in the way of Christmas
goods, they sell cheap, and supply country
demands: they keep a great variety of
stationery of the finest qualities, they have
a fine stock of the best books, all the Church
works, and are very accommodating. They
also have a good supply of toys, dolls,
games and many such like articles for
children and young folks, and there is
scarcely anything in this style of goods or in
this line that one cannot find at this fine
new building just East of the Templeton
Hotel. The Juvenile Instructor handsome-
ly bound would be an acceptable Christmas
Gift to almost any one, and is safe to recom-
mend in the way of reading matter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Dear mother your daughter is still alive,
won’t you come over and see her before we
die. Even while I am writing, the dear
children are prattling about what they will
do and say when grandmother comes, and
they join with their father in best love to
you.
	May the Lord Almighty bless you dear
mother, and make you a blessing to me
and mine; is the earnest prayer of your
ever affectionate and dutiful daughter,
						Angelina.
	Little more than seven years had passed
away when my husband was sent on a
short mission to England, and when he
returned—O happy day!—he brought my
mother with him.
	My mother had been converted to the
faith, so she said, while praying for me
the spirit had enlightened her mind to
discern the truth. And here I am, again
realizing the joys of my childhood, as I
look with pride upon my mother with my
babe in her arms, for 1 have now four
children.

	Since I laid down my pen, mother and
years have passed away. The kingdom of
God is progressing, and the valleys of the
mountains are being filled with an industri-
ous, thriving and God-fearing people. The
wilderness and solitary place is glad for
them and is made to blossom as the rose
and now the bright grain is waving, the
gardens are full of wealth and beauty. In
the orchards apples, pears, peaches and
plums are hanging in rich abundance.
Avenues of trees are growing along our
streets, and our children are growing up
around us in the fear of the Lord, and in
the faith and wisdom of the kingdom.
	My mother, after being for years a bless-
ing to me and my children, has laid down
her life in peace, in a good old age, and the
star of my happy destiny shines upon her
grave.


