[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: COLUMBUS. | Author: ﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

COLUMBUS.
	GENOA has become immortalized as the
birth-place of Columbus. The years 1433-
1435 are given by different authors as the
time of his birth. It seems fitting
that so sublime a mariner should be brought
forth and reared on the shores of the sea.
Columbus lived in an auspicious time. The
15th century, like the 19th, the 5th and the
10th, has been noted a period of great
transition. Some of the greatest artists
and sculptors flourished. The printing
press, the mariners compass, the use of
gunpowder, the astrolobe were then known.
So also a reformation in Christianity was
necessary, and the teachings of the Martyr
Savonarola, and the doctrines of Luther
were brought forth. So too Columbus ap-
peared at the appointed hour when our
earth and intellect demanded him, he
received his instruction at the University of
Pavia, where he devoted his time to the
study of navigation, the natural sciences
and nautical astronomy.
	His thoughts were set on religion and
business alike. Like the Mediterranean
mariners of the present day he engaged in


[column 1]
commerce. He never began a letter with-
out writing a line of prayer in Latin in-
voking the aid of Christ. He read the
Bible from beginning to end, believed in
its prophecies respecting the discovery of
America and could repent the Catholic
prayers like any priest; he was an ac-
complished navigator, and repeatedly made
practical voyages. In 1477 he says he
sailed 100 leagues north of the Island of
Thule, or Iceland, but does not seem to
be aware of the traditions of the Scandi-
navians respecting the discovery of
America by the Norsemen 500 years
previous. He sailed south as far as the
coast of Guinea, the Island possessions
of Spain and Portugal, as the Azores,
Madeira, Canary and also the Island of the
Meditteranean. The stories and legends
of the great wealth of India were then
agitating the minds of the people of
Southern Europe. Commerce with India
was then carried on by way of land, the
route around the Cape of Good Hope was
not then known.
	Columbus was desirous of shortening the
route to Asia by sailing westward and thus
facilitating trade. He was convinced of
the sphericity of the earth; but believed
in the dimensions assigned to it by Ptolemy
which were much less than the actual size,
and that the solid parts of the earth ex-
ceeded the liquid. He also over estimated
the size of the Asiatic Continent. His
theory was that if he sailed west beyond
the possessions of Portugal and Spain, he
would soon reach the eastern coast of Asia.
Had he known of the immensity of the
actual distance westward to Asia, it is
doubtful that he would have discovered
America. In 1470 we find Columbus in
Lisbon. His presence here is like the
presence of artists in Rome, Lisbon was
one of the greatest maratime cities of the
age, engaged in commerce with all the
known nations of the earth.
	Here he married Felipa Perestrello the
daughter of a discoverer. The Island of
Porto Santo was conferred on the family of
Perestrello for some achievement, by Don
Henry of Portugal. Here Columbus re-
paired after his marriage and learned many
things advantageous in his future discover-
ies. Columbus had several conferences
with the king of Portugal who listened to
him with favor, but his demands were so
great that Don John did not comply. He
however decided to appropriate the designs
and ideas of Columbus and make the
discovery for himself so under pretense of
provisioning the Cape Verde Islands, he
sent out an expedition to follow the course
mapped out by Columbus. This proved a
failure and when Columbus learned of the
treachery of Don John his indignation was
so great he decided to quit Portugal im-
mediately. His wife having died, he took
his only child Diego, intending to lay his
claims before the Spanish sovereigns. He
also sent Bartholomew, his brother 1485 to
obtain assistance from the English
monarchs, Bartholomew was taken by
the Corsairs, chained to the oar as a gal-
ley, but after three years escaped gained an
audience with King Henry of England, who
was pleased with his plans, but from whom
he received no assistance. Columbus did 
not obtain an audience with Ferdinand and
Isabella until 1487, but he now had some
powerful allies who espoused his cause, among
which were the Dukes Medin Celi and
Medin Sidonia the great Cardinal Mendoza
whose power was such that he was styled
the third King of Spain. Columbus seems

[column 2]
to have arrived at the Spanish Court at an
inauspicious time. Ferdinand and Isabella
were then engaged in the expulsion of the
Moors and the conquest of Granada, and
could think of no rival undertaking, he
however received personal aid as the
treasurer's accounts show that sums of
money were paid him in May 1847, Aug.
1847, Oct. 1847, June 1846, to defray his 
expenses.
	In despair he went to Cordova the home
of Beatrice and his son Ferdinand. Thence
to the convent of La Rabida where the
good monks entertained him and were
astonished and charmed with his scientific
and religious ideas. They interceded with
the Queen in his behalf. She summoned
him to Santa Fe where he was promised a 
hearing after the conquest of Granada, he
gladly remained and engaged valiantly in
the fight. Jan 2nd 1492, Boabdil with his
brilliant following surrendered to Don
Ferdinand. Columbus now presented his
claims, he demanded the supreme office of
admiral, viceroy over the lands he should
discover, of the revenues resulting there-
from, and as the means of successful dis-
covery, he asked for three caravels and a
good allowance of money.
	The Queen complained of these
exorbitant demands and he was abruptly
dismissed. He again thought of repairing
to France, when a wealthy Jew Santangelo
and the Marchoiness Moya interposed in
his favor. In April 1492 the argument
known as the Capitulations of Santa Fe
was signed granting Columbus all he asked.
	The expedition consisted of the Santa
Maria with a crew of 50 men commanded
by the Admiral, the Pinta with 30 men
commanded by Martin Pinzon and the Nina
with 24 men commanded by Vincente Pinzon
	On Friday which was a day of good
omen Aug. 3, 1492, Columbus set sail from
Palos and stood out for the Canary Isles.
After an eventful voyage of 10 weeks, land 
was seen by a sailor, of the Nina, Rodrigo
De Friano Oct. 12, Friday 1492. This was
called by the natives Guanahani and by
Columbus San Salvador. Columbus besides
discovering many small Islands, discovered
Cuba and Hayti. The products of Hayti
were so much like those of Spain, that he
named it Espanolia or little Spain. On the
coast of Hayti the Santa Maria was so
badly wrecked, it had to be abandoned and
from it was built Ft. Nativity. The ad-
miral being desirous of returning to Spain
to report the good news, left Arana a kins-
men of Beatrice in command as governor of
the improvised fort.
	Martin Pinzon the commander of the
Pinta in his desire to find gold had deserted
the expedition, so the admiral had to re-
turn in the Nina, Jan, 4th 1493, he started.
On the homeward voyage a terriffic storm-
threatened destruction, and Columbus fear-
ing that all would be lost, wrote a des-
cription of the new found-land sealed it in
a keg and threw it overboard, trusting that
by the grace of God his precious secret
might fall into good hands. He reached
Palos, Friday March 5th, 1493. Columbus
seated before their majesties, told of the
new found land, exhibited the mysterious
plants, the strange beasts and birds, the
gold and the nine Indians who were to be-
come Christians. Columbus now had
reached the zenith of his glory. All his
honors were conferred on him, and pro-
positions were made for a second voyage.
This time 1500 persons went to colonize, to
Christianize the inhabitants and make more
discoveries. The Island Domnicia was

[column 3]
reached Nov. 3, 1493 after a most success-
ful voyage. This time he discovered Porto
Rico and Jamaica. Fort Nativity was
burned and the inhabitants deserted.
	He remained until 1496 discovering more
Islands and gold in considerable quantities.
He also established the West Indian Slave
Trade. In his great desire to obtain gold
he became avaricious, rumors of his misrule
reached Isabella who summoned him to
Spain. He reached Cadiz June 15, 1496,
in a state of great dejection; he was how-
ever again received into favor and asked for
mere supplies and ships which were granted
him. May 1498 he started on his third 
voyage. This time he discoverd the conti-
nent of South America which he supposed
was another collection of Islands until he saw
the immense quantity of water, the Orono-
co carried to the Ocean he knew that it was
a continent for which he had long sought. 
He then returned to the West Indies, sent
five ship loads of Indians to Spain as slaves
which so incensed Queen Isabella that she
ordered their release. More rumors of the 
mismanagement of Columbus reached Spain.
Their majesties accordingly commissioned
Boabdilla to go to Hayti and inquire into 
the trouble. On reaching Espanalioa he put
Columbus and his two brothers in irons.
	But he was once more forgiven and re-
ceived into favor, in May 1502 with four
caravels and 150 men he started on his 4th
and last voyage, from which he returned in
1504 and as he was too ill to go to court,
his son Diego represented him. Columbus 
died May 1506. His will states that the
honor or admirality shall fall on Diego and
his heirs male, failing these Fernando and
his heir, failing these Bartholomew and his
heirs male. The male issue of the admiral
became extinct in the third generation and
the estates and titles possessed by marriage
to a scione of the house of Broganza,
buried at Valladolid thence to Seville thence
to Hayti thence to Havanna.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


