VIEW FROM THE TEMPLE LOT, NAUVOO
Dr. James E. Talmage A SKETCH OF HIS EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES By Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve
JUST after noon, July 27, a rap on the door of our cabin in Logan Canyon led me to open and face a stranger who announced he had just come from a long distance phone over which the statement was made that Dr. Talmage was dead. This was a thunderbolt. "Is it possible?" I asked. "He died at 8:45 this morning," was the answer. And so I turned back and remarked to my companion that "all in all Dr. Talmage was the most brilliant man I ever knew. I shall miss him greatly."
Just before leaving the office for a week's sojourn in Logan Canyon I telephoned to Dr. Talmage and asked if I could have a long talk with him when I returned about the European Mission. He could have given me much valuable information, as he had done relative to various matters many times before, for versatility and wide, accurate information were among his outstanding possessions. Every acquaintance of his can testify to these facts.
SINCE his arrival in Utah from England with his parents, June, 1876, in his fourteenth year, Dr. Talmage has been recognized by all who knew him as an unusual person. In the fall of that year he enrolled in the Brigham Young Academy, Provo, and was graduated from the Normal Course three years later at the head of his class. Though very young he had so impressed himself upon Dr. Maeser, the principal, and his other teachers that a wholly unusual offer for one of his age was made to him—to become a regular teacher in the Academy. This offer is ample proof of the fact that young Talmage was a remarkably gifted person. And so he proved to be. Of the thousands who have been graduated from this Church school perhaps none has been more brilliant in intellect, in speech, in achievement than Dr. Talmage.
Of course his Alma Mater could not retain him long. He was not yet prepared. His goal was the top. He must go to an eastern university, if his ambition was to be satisfied. But here he met discouragements. Had he not emigrated with his parents from England to Utah for the gospel's sake? And to go back into the world to study science, did he not know that this would make shipwreck of his faith? Such was the prevailing opinion among his friends. So the young man now did something characteristic of him. He needed wisdom; he wanted to know what was the best thing to do. Hence he prayed about the matter and sought also the counsel of John Taylor, the president of the Church. He now was satisfied. The President pronounced a wonderful blessing upon his head and sent him forth.
IN the fall of 1882 he entered Lehigh University in Pennsylvania, and a year later he registered at the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, at the time America's foremost graduate school. At both institutions Dr. Talmage was soon recognized as a brilliant student. But he did not stay to graduate at the time from either university. But baccalaureate graduation from Lehigh came in 1891. The call to return to the Brigham Young Academy was so loud that he yielded and during the next four years, 1884-88, Provo was again the center of his activities. From here his fame as a gifted teacher and scientist spread apace. It reached me in northern Utah while I was a student in the grades. A book of his on Domestic Science fell into my hands. I began to read out of curiosity; I was soon spell-bound. The chemistry of baking powder, what yeast does, etc., were described and goaded me on. Then and there I determined I was going to study science, if ever I could go away to school, and emphasize chemistry. This I did. Only recently I told Dr. Talmage his inspiration was responsible for my eight years of scientific study in eastern universities.
AND then came another "call," which found him ready. He was firmly anchored in the faith. His testimony of the divinity guiding the Church had become ingrained in his soul. He was wanted to head the newly established Church school in Salt Lake City—the Latter-day Saints College. To him a declination was unthinkable for the call came from God's servants. And thus in the summer of 1888 Salt Lake City became the home of the Talmages—the newly weds went to the altar in June—the city where his eight children were born, the city he honored the rest of his life by calling it home.
Dr. Talmage continued as the administrative head of this Church college during the five years, 1888-1893. But so rapidly had his fame increased that he was called in 1893 to begin the organization of a new institution, a Church university in Salt Lake City. A science laboratory was erected and equipped and Dr. Talmage gave a course of public lectures on scientific subjects during the winter months. These proved to be very popular, so much so that the Board of Regents of the University of Utah went to him with an offer. Salt Lake City, it was thought, was not big enough for two universities, One maintained by the State and the other by the Church. Why should not all interests and parties unite on the State University and build up an institution that would be worthy of and bring fame to Utah? So negotiations were begun. The result was that in the spring of 1894 Dr. Talmage was called to the presidency of the University of Utah, and his newly erected science laboratory was given by the Church as an endowment to establish the Deseret Professorship of Geology in the State institution.
But this call to the most important university executive position he ever held did not supersede his love for teaching. So Dr. Talmage was given the professorship of geology as well as the presidency of the University of Utah. He therefore continued his activity as a teacher, an activity that in one form or another he maintained vigorously until the gripping hand of death was laid upon him.
DR. TALMAGE'S election as President of the University of Utah signaled a new day in the history of this institution of learning. This was an event of the utmost significance to the University. In one sense its history as a collegiate institution begins with the election of the new president. For this election signaled the burial of the hatchet of warfare on the University from which it had suffered more or less for a long time. One portion of the public looked upon the University as a Mormon institution, run in the interest of the Church, also an institution entirely without real collegiate standards. Another portion of the public regarded the University as anti-religious, as a destroyer of religious faith. Thus the institution had the whole-hearted support of but a very small part of the public, and so was not prospering. But now all of this was changed. Perhaps no new college president was ever received by the public and the school with greater enthusiasm than was Dr. Talmage. His multiform educational activities since his coming to Salt Lake City in 1888 had captivated the public. In him was seen a man of wholly unusual ability, a genius who was master of everything he touched, whether in the class room, the lecture hall, or the executive office. With him and behind him stood a practically united public in support of the University, a support that the University has enjoyed from that day to this.
HOWEVER, able as he was, Dr. Talmage was hardly a superman (and no one else is). With his coming the University entered upon a period of enlarged growth as a collegiate institution and this brought a very serious problem to the vigorous new president. The duties of president grew apace, so did the growth in the department of geology. Here was an exceptionally able young man with two full-time jobs on his hands. What should he do. He chose to stay with the class room and with the laboratory, his first loves. Others could fill the executive chair. No one else available could fill the chair of geology as he could fill it. There was rejoicing among his students at his decision. The executive office was handed back to Dr. Joseph T. Kingsbury, from whom, through the Board of Regents, Dr. Talmage had received it three years before.
But Dr. Talmage's great mission had been accomplished. He had united the public in support of the University. It is questionable if any other man could have done this at the time. Certainly no one else could have done it with the facility and speed with which he did it. He had rendered a super-service to the University. Does any one wonder then why the University in 1922 conferred upon its brilliant former president the highest honorary degree known to the university world—that of LL. D., Doctor of Laws? Already he had three other doctor's degrees—one from the Church in 1890, a Ph. D. From Illinois Wesleyan University, 1896, and D. Sc., Lehigh University, 1912, the latter, an honorary degree, making him especially happy because it was the first one of its kind that Lehigh had given to one of its own sons. Hence the granting of this degree brought him a very unusual honor.
Dr. Talmage was honored not only by American universities and scientific societies but also by several foreign ones. He held the highest rank of membership (that of Fellow) in these societies. (See Who's Who in America.) One of these, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, conferred an unusual honor upon him—jumped the Atlantic and crossed to western America to find an outstanding man whom it appointed as a Delegate to represent the Society at the International Geological Congress, held in St. Petersburg, 1897. Many there are who remember how spellbound they were in seeing Dr. Talmage's lantern pictures and listening to his eloquent lecture on Russia, given in many places on his return.
AGAIN Dr. Talmage was to be confronted with a divided love. The University continued its growth and so did the work in the department of geology. Since 1897, when he began giving full time to his department, the Mining School, a division of the University, required him to emphasize geology in its relation to mining. This necessitated that much time be spent in the laboratory and the mines. This brought Dr. Talmage into intimate contact with mine superintendents and managers, and gave him an expert knowledge of the geology of their mines. But in those days there were many law suits between mines relative to their rights in ore bodies, many of which extended from one mine to another. Nature had not parceled out its ores into isolated bodies convenient to the man-made boundary lines of separate properties. And of course the direction of ore veins could not often be seen from the ground surface. There were many law suits. Where was there an expert witness in Dr. Talmage's class upon whom the litigants could call? The question answers itself. And so Dr. Talmage was again confronted with the perennial question, "What shall I do?" His decision was a wise one, made no doubt, as was his custom, only after much study and fervent prayer. Since he could no longer do the work of both the class room and the laboratory and the field, he chose the latter and resigned his chair of geology in the University in July, 1907. Why was this decision wise? Dr. Talmage had ready a capable successor for the class room in the person of his student, Dr. Frederick J. Pack. But no one was yet ready for his place in the field and court room. But when this was the case the readers of this Magazine all know what happened. Four years later, Dec., 1911, Dr. Talmage was called into the Council of the Twelve. Thus it seems that all his life he was raised up to do special work that at the time none could do as well as he.
THUS I have sketched an outline of some of the educational activities of Dr. Talmage with which I am most familiar. But of course these are a part only of the many activities of this wonderfully gifted and extremely energetic man. The limits of this article do not permit me to sketch others. In any case, perhaps this is unnecessary, for some others are beautifully sketched by President Bryant S. Hinckley in the July, 1932, number of the Improvement Era. Further, those who attended or read the impressive funeral services, held July 30, 1933, are in possession of still additional sketches. Other facts may also be learned from the sketch in the volumes Who's Who in America, American Men of Science, and elsewhere.
Much more should be written to make the sketch adequate but I shall close with these quotations from President Hinckley's Era article, written a year before Dr. Talmage's death:
"James E. Talmage will go into history as one of the ablest and most brilliant advocates of 'Mormonism.'
"Dr. James E. Talmage has a superior intellect, a pure and contrite heart, a radiant faith, a sane and lofty idealism, a clear understanding of the meaning and purpose of life. He has achieved splendidly in the world. His life reflects credit upon his name and his people and has added strength and majesty to the great Church to which he has given a consecrated allegiance."
God bless Dr. Talmage's memory, and inspire his gifted family to emulate his example.