Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
OBEDIENCE TO LAW THE BASIS OF REWARD
LESSON X
1. Sectarian Conception of Grace. The grace of God as conceived and taught by numerous sectarian organizations is the unmerited love and favor of Deity, especially as shown in the salvation freely provided for mankind. In a word, the doctrine teaches that Deity extends salvation to whomsoever he chooses, irrespective of their works or deserts. Accordingly, the earthly deeds of God's children are not determining factors in the condition of future life. In still other words, rewards of eternal life are not given on the basis of merit, but rather as the result of Divine will. Nor is this interpretation entirely without scriptural support; that is in isolated passages. For example: In his epistle to the saints at Ephesus, Paul the apostle declares, "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast." (Ephesians 2:8, 9.) Paul conveys essentially the same thought in his second letter to the saints at Corinth, as follows, which are the words of Christ to him: "My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness." (II Corinthians 12:9.) According to the point of view set out at the beginning of this paragraph, the scriptures just quoted are interpreted to mean that the grace of God is sufficient unto salvation irrespective of the deeds of those upon whom it falls.
2. An Application of this Point of View. The writer of this lesson at one time lived in the same neighborhood as an old woman who raised and sold flowers for a living. She loved her flowers; they were almost a part of her, and she was generous in giving them to her friends. I have seen her repeatedly pass my home, knee-deep in snow, with her arms filled with flowers as a gift to a sympathizing friend. In course of time she died. She had not been a member of any church; indeed, it is doubtful that she had even formally acknowledged faith in the saving grace of God. A simple funeral service was arranged at the home and a sectarian minister was invited to officiate. Among other things, he voiced his regret that the woman had not confessed belief in Christ, and expressed fear that because of this any reward for her in the future was gravely uncertain.
3. At about the same time a rollicking school boy of fourteen years returned to his home, in the same neighborhood, for his noon-day luncheon. His mother, a widow, was a school teacher and hence was away from home. The boy opened the front door and went through a long hall to the kitchen, where, greatly to his surprise, he found a thief ransacking the house. The boy ran toward the front door, and while doing so the thief shot him in the back. The momentum of the boy's body carried him through the front door, across the porch, and on to the lawn, where he died before being able to tell what had happened. In course of time, the murderer was apprehended, tried, and adjudged guilty. On the day set for his execution he called in his spiritual adviser and confessed guilt. Whereupon he was assured that all was well with his soul.
4. It is needless to say that circumstances such as these are an offense to good judgment. It is everything but reasonable to assume that Deity would consign the old woman to everlasting punishment, and the murderer to eternal bliss. Such a thing would be abhorrent even to the basest of human beings. It is little wonder, therefore, that sectarianism is unattractive to many people who believe in the justice of God and who therefore deny themselves the advantage of church affiliation, which otherwise they would choose to accept. Christianity, alas, has suffered much because of man's inability properly to interpret it.
5. Necessity of Good Works. It is difficult to understand why the doctrine of unmerited rewards is acceptable to any believer in Christ, unless it is because of the widespread desire among men to obtain something for nothing, since the doctrine is unfair to both God and man. Even Paul's statement to the Ephesians, upon which the "grace" conception of salvation is largely based, does not teach the futility of good works. Indeed, quite to the contrary. After declaring himself with respect to the potency of grace (Ephesians 2:8, 9) he emphatically states that men are the workmanship of God "created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them." (Ephesians 2:10.) This point alone makes the truth perfectly clear that good works are basic to the grace of God and indispensable to those who receive Divine favor.
6. Listen further, however, to the words of this same Paul to his beloved Titus, whom he describes as his "own son after the common faith:" "This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men." (Titus 3:8.) To the Romans Paul declared that "the judgment of God is according to truth," and that he "will render to every man according to his deeds: to them who, by patient continuance in well doing, seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life: but unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath." (Romans 2:6-8.)
7. James, a disciple of Christ, was even more emphatic. To the scattered tribes of Israel he said: "Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." (James 1:22.) Again: "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. * * * Wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? * * * For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also." (James 2:14-26.) The unmistakable words of the apostle John are well known to all: "He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby we know that we are in him." (I John 2:4, 5.) The same disciple further declares: "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." (Revelation 20:12.)
8. By Grace Are Ye Saved. On the other hand, perhaps no one would defend the idea that man, unaided by divine power, is able to save himself in the kingdom of God, irrespective of the character of his works. In other words, man alone is wholly impotent to bring himself back into the presence of the Father. Such being the case, it is evident that the necessary help must be freely extended to him from on high. Moreover, it will hardly be argued that Deity is under any obligation whatsoever to give this help. It is evident, therefore, that salvation is a free gift from God to man. Men are thus truly and literally saved by the grace of God, not by their works lest they should boast.
9. But let us hasten to another viewpoint. An illustration may assist to better understanding. In many of the larger educational institutions of the world, so-called fellowships and scholarships have been established for the assistance of deserving students. The purpose behind the launching of these benefits is wholly philanthropic. The founder is under no obligation to those for whom he thus provides; his offering is a free gift. But it being a free gift, the donor is likewise free to name the conditions under which the benefits shall be allowed. High scholastic standing, good moral character, physical fitness, dependability, industry, etc., are usually placed foremost among the stipulated requirements. These rewards are everywhere known to be free gifts from the founder, and it is also known that they cannot be obtained without making the necessary preparation.
10. It need scarcely be said that these coveted scholarships are never awarded to indifferent or unprepared students, but only to those who have equipped themselves to properly benefit by the gift. It cannot be said that even the worthy student has earned the reward, since the donor is in no way obligated to offer it. The benefit is thus a free gift to those who prepare themselves to meet the stipulations.
11. So it is with the blessings of God. Deity is not obligated to save men in his kingdom. Conversely, men have no ability of their own to reach it. Deity, on the other hand, has offered the gift of salvation to all of those who properly prepare themselves. Salvation is thus a free gift from God; it is by his grace that men are saved. But Deity, like the donor of educational scholarships, extends the reward only to those who meet his requirements.
12. Futility of Unmerited Rewards. The uselessness of unmerited rewards should be apparent without comment. No advantage could accrue, for example, to the indifferent and failing student by giving him a scholarship to an educational institution for which he had made no preparation, since the advanced facilities thus offered would have no meaning for him. Likewise, it would be futile to send a man to heaven who had not made requisite preparation; a murderer, for example, would be ill at ease in the presence of the Master. People are able to enjoy only those things for which they are prepared. This matter is made exceptionally clear in the following statement of the Lord relating to the future condition of men's spirits: "He who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory. Therefore, he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory." (D. & C. 88:22-24.)
13. Obedience a Basic Requirement. Perhaps the most pertinent instruction ever given by Deity to man relative to the necessity of obedience is the following: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated?And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. & C. 130:21, 22.) This information was given April 2, 1843, at Ramus, Illinois, and repeated three months later at Nauvoo
 
in slightly different language, as follows: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world." (D. & C. 132:5.).
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. In what sense are men actually saved by the grace of God and not by their own works? Is salvation a gift from God? Why?
2. Why is the sectarian doctrine of unmerited rewards contrary to the wisdom and justice of God?
3. Why is it possible for man to enjoy only those things for which he has made preparation?
4. Why are good works a pre-requisite to salvation? Why would it be impossible for a hardened sinner to enjoy the presence of God?
5. Why do good works prepare one for the enjoyment of God's blessings? Why is it that laggards do not enjoy, say, the reading of good books?
Teachers' Topic
THE GREAT OBJECTIVE OF LIFE
The great objective of life is to obtain exaltation and to become like God.
Scriptural Text: "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.
"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." Abraham 3:25-26.
"Man is that he might have joy." 2 Nephi 2:25.
The pre-existent state was one of preparation and proving for the second estate, to see if the spirits of men would be worthy of this earth-life, or mortality. Spirits were unable to obtain an exaltation without bodies of flesh and bones and the experiences of mortality. The earth-life is of two-fold nature (a) That spirits who kept their first estate might be clothed with tabernacles of flesh and bones in preparation for the resurrection and immortality and eternal life; (b) That all who receive bodies might in this life be proved and found worthy or otherwise.
Our worthiness brings a fulness of joy. Discuss what a fulness of joy means. The great battle of life is the pursuit of happiness, and we should have joy in this life as well as the life to come. Brigham Young said: "Our work is a work of the present. The salvation we are seeking is for the present and sought correctly, it can be obtained, and be continually enjoyed. I am decidedly in favor of practical religion of everyday useful life, and if I today attend to what devolves upon me to do, and then do that which presents itself tomorrow, and so on, when eternity comes I will be prepared to enter in the things of eternity."
Our joy now and in life to come is dependent on progression made here. "Progression is the successfully meeting problems of this life day by day, a harmonious development of all our powers."
We should be thoroughly impressed with the fact that character building is the most important business of this mortal life, for true character brings to the individual joy now, and helps to bring a fulness of joy in the life to come. "Be ye therefore perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect." This is the goal we are seeking.
Literature (Third Week in October)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
LESSON I
"Books without the knowledge of life are useless, for what should books teach us but the art of living." ?Dr. Samuel Johnson.
IN the "Book of Literature," Man, the author, has recorded his experiences in the pursuit of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful in Life. The measure of civilization lies in the opportunities provided for man to attain his highest development. History has recorded the material facts of human progress; discovery, conquest, expansion, dominion. Literature has recorded what man has thought and felt as with Ulysses-like courage he has continued through the ages "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" in his quest for Happiness.
Life and Literature.
THE world in which man found himself was a world of mystery. The external world, the world of Nature, was his first problem. He must live; nutrition and security he must have. The inner world, the world of Self, of appetites, passions, emotions, impulses, provided never-ending conflicts. Then there were the universal mysteries, Life and Death. Man learned first to conquer; then to understand.
In the conquest of the external world, man became a hero. During the dawn of civilization, Man recorded in his "Book of Literature" his heroic experiences. As the ages passed, man sought to understand. Now he dealt in ideas. He made for himself simple explanations of the mysteries that baffled him. These explanations were made in human terms; thus to him, day came when Apollo drove the chariot of the sun across the sky, and when one day the strange phenomenon of an eclipse of the sun occurred, it was because Apollo had allowed his inexperienced son to drive the chariot. These beautiful story-explanations were recorded as myths.
Later the mind of man became dissatisfied with the primitive explanations; his desire for that which is true grew apace. Man's quest for truth has provided the world with that body of information known as scientific fact with all its utilitarian values.
Gradually, there arose in man a new need. He was surrounded by Good and Evil; he became aware of the constructive and destructive forces at work in the world. This was a spiritual need; he needed to know the meaning of honor, virtue, and morality. But most of all he needed an ethical code for his guidance. Out of the early spiritual experiences of man grew the beginnings of the systems of philosophy and ethics which have been refining factors of civilization.
Similarly, man became aware of Beauty. He saw that harmony was beautiful; he felt it also. The desire came first to represent that which was beautiful; later, man desired to create that which was beautiful. This was the origin of Art.
For centuries Man's "Book of Literature" existed in oral form. Out of his desire for a permanent record, the art of writing grew. Only a few of the civilizations that rose, flourished, and died when the world was young enshrined their heroism and their wisdom in the permanent form of literature. Don Marquis, one of today's singers, gives a reason for the oblivion of the others:
"By Tigris o'er the streams of Ind, Ere Colchis rose, or Babylon, Forgotten empires dreamed or sinned, Setting tall towns against the dawn.
They built with gold and bronze and brawn, The inner Vision still denied, Their conquests?Ask oblivion, 'They had no poet, and they died.'"
The Making of Literature.
LITERATURE is an art of expression. Life-experience is the material out of which all great literature is made. It may be made of the experience of a single individual, as Shelley's "Ode to a Skylark;" it may be made of the experience of a nation, as Homer's "Iliad;" it may be made of the experience of a religion, as Milton's "Paradise Lost." As such expression literature becomes the foremost of the great humanities. Also, as such, it is a record, a criticism, a prophecy. As a record it presents life as it appears; as a criticism of life it is an explanation and an interpretation; as a prophecy of life "it reveals the hidden loveliness of the world, it points out the ideal that is ever seeking to push through the husks of things to reveal the inner spiritual reality."
The art of expression is not an accident; the makers of literature have striven first, to follow the Sophoclean example "to see life steadily and see it whole," then, to attain a beauty of form and expression: The Greek genius, zest for life, keen power of analysis, thirst for knowledge, splendid originality, vigorous imagination, fondness for beauty, when applied to literature yielded a product which has remained unexcelled through the ages. Aristotle, at the close of the creative epoch of Greek life, looked at the literary product of his race and recorded the principles which had made for perfection. This first literary lawmaker in the "Poetics" gave to makers of literature the doctrine of art?a work of art is a likeness of the original, or a reproduction as it appears to the individual, or an expression of the universal element in human life, or an idealized representation of human life.
Latin literature followed the classic tradition established by the Greeks. Horace, the great Latin satirist, added the principle that literature was "to instruct and to delight." Longinus (lon ji nus) in the third century, evolved the principle of sublimity "to lift one out of oneself."
The classic pattern of literature lay hidden during the Dark Ages. Early Christian influence in Europe stifled any freedom of expression with its "other worldliness" and its censorial attitude. Medieval Europe recorded its romance in ballad and story through its troubadors and minstrels.
Then came the re-discovery of the Greek and Latin classics. The invention of printing, the Reformation, the discovery of the New World marked the passing of the old order of things and ushered in an intellectual new-birth. The great literary product of the Elizabethan Age was the result in England. In France also there was a period of great literary productivity. The French sought to follow slavishly the classic tradition, allowing no liberality. They denounced the Elizabethans; Shakespeare for too much romance, Sir Philip Sydney for claiming for the poet "that he may teach, that he may delight, that he may move," Dryden for his theory that literature was an organic force which develops with the nation and the age. The battle of the chief makers of literature raged for almost a century. Freedom came with a new school of writers, Lessing and Goethe in Germany, Coleridge and Wordsworth in England. Poetry now became "the blossom and the fragrance of all human knowledge, human thoughts, human passions, emotions, language."
The last century produced two great literary guides, Matthew Arnold and Sainte-Beuve (sant buv). Matthew Arnold, the English poet and critic, wrote that "Poetry is a criticism of life?The true end of art, and of poetry especially is, like religion to strengthen and uphold the heart with high aspirations and consolations." Sainte-Beuve, the greatest of French critics, claimed that a true classic "enriches the human mind, discovers some great truth, reveals some eternal passion?in no matter what literary form only provided it be broad and great, refined and sensible, sane and beautiful in itself." So spoke Homer to the human race as he told an epic story, so also did Sophocles in dramas revealing the victoriousness of life, so also did Shakespeare in the delineation of human character.
As a revolt against the moral values of literature supported by the writings and teachings of the great critics, Arnold and Sainte-Beuve, there arose a new claim, that of "Art for Art's Sake." This conflict continues.
Today a comparatively new literary form is creating much consternation with its growing pains, fiction, that form into which experience is cast by means of the imagination. The present age is a "Battle of Books." Commercialism and fashion are the literary rulers. It is a new age, the industrial age. Life has new materials, wealth, luxury, and power with hunger, injustice, and reaction stalking alongside. The makers of literature in the present age have difficult tasks. The man of today will be heroic, what beautiful, what moral? Fiction, in the throes of the struggle with commercialism, is in the refining stage. Less hampered than the fiction makers, the poets are singing bravely and well. Through revolt and struggle a new humanism is molding literature, a democratic humanism.
For obvious reasons the ordinary reader needs guidance. Literary counsel is not far to seek, and there is an abundance of it. Fashion and counsel should not be confused. Counsel follows the traditional path, the way of the makers of great books; fashion follows the path of popularity. Emerson in discussing the value of literary counsel states: "Nothing is more important for the reader who loves literature than to become intimately acquainted with its great makers; for they alone can guide him in his judgments, can teach him to distinguish merit, and can enable him to estimate literary values for himself."
To be wise in the ways of the makers of literature "helps the ear to listen when the horns of Elfland blow."
The Enjoyment of Literature.
THE world of the reader is a wonderful world. He can sail the seas with Ulysses, explore the depths and the highest heaven with Dante, listen to the sweet songs of Sappho and Shelley, learn wisdom from Socrates and Emerson, and laugh with Sam Weller and Tom Sawyer. The reader's friends, as his adventures, are legion. From all ages and climes they gather at his bidding; Joseph the dreamer, Andromache, Hamlet, Dr. Johnson and Boswell will be among them.
"Books of Power," "Best Sellers of the Ages," "Much Loved Books" are some of the names given to the great masterpieces of Literature. It has been said that one who has read the Hebrew prophets, the Greek dramatists, and Shakespeare has a view of the greatness of life necessary for true enjoyment.
"Dreams, books, are each a world; and books we know Are a substantial world, pure and good, Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood Our pastime and our happiness will grow." ?Wordsworth.
Sohrab and Rustum?Matthew Arnold.
The Poet's Way.
THE source of a poet's inspiration has been explained in many ways; to Wordsworth, it was the "spirit of the universe," to Emerson it was "the oversoul," to "AE" it was "the King in His beauty," to Milton it was "God." As the poet gazes on life he finds the hidden message that is waiting its spiritual expression. Many of the great masters of literature have used the classic pattern to carry their inspiration to mankind.
The Poet. Matthew Arnold.
SINCE the Golden Age of Greece there has been no sincerer admirer and student of the classic tradition than the English poet, Matthew Arnold. His activity as a poet belongs to the earlier part of his life. In addition to "Sohrab and Rustum" his best poetical works include a beautiful version of the medieval legend of "Tristram and Iseult" and "Rugby Chapel," a tribute to his father, the renowned headmaster of Rugby. In 1851 he became the government inspector of schools in Great Britain, which position he held for thirty-five years. In later life he became a leading apostle of culture, through the lectures and essays embodying his ideals. Because of the nature and quality of his writings, Matthew Arnold holds a high place among the great masters of literature.
The Poem.
"SOHRAB AND RUSTUM" is a noble poem. With a sustained grandeur of style, a simplicity of language, and a wealth of graphic detail the author tells a poignantly tragic story. From the echoes of the mist-land of ancient Persia came the story. The poet Firdusi (f?r dou's?) (born 935 A. D.) recorded the story as part of the epic poem "Shah Nameh" (shah na ma), the Persian "Book of Kings." Firdusi was commanded by his king to gather the chronicles of Persia from the earliest heroic times, 3600 B. C., and weave them into a poem so that:
"No tide Shall wash away what men Unborn shall read o'er ocean wide."
Arnold took from the poem the tragic story of the great national hero, Rustum (rtis'ttm), who unwittingly slays his own son, Sohrab. Love of family is the human note in the story. Sohrab seeks to be worthy of his renowned father; Rustum longs for a valiant warrior son. Over the story hangs the mist of Oriental fate; "Fate always gets where it will." The land of the Persians is being overrun by the Tartars, and in "the carnage wide blood flowed like water." In their great distress the Persians implored their great leader, Zal, the greatest warrior the world had ever known, to come to their aid. The ancient warrior sent his son, Rustum, to fight in his stead. Rustum had just taken as his bride the beautiful princess, Tamineh (ta min'ah). Rustum went when called by his father to fight for his king. In due time the lovely Tamineh gave birth to a beautiful boy whom she called Sohrab (sunshine), but fearing lest Rustum should take him away and train him as a warrior, she sent word to him that she had given birth to a daughter. Rustum was kept so busy with the wars that he never once visited his wife while his son was growing up. For a long time Tamineh jealously guarded the secret of Sohrab's birth. But when she could no longer keep him from going forth to battle, she told him her story:
"Listen, my child, and you shall hear Of the wondrous love of a maiden dear For a mighty warrior, the pride of his day Who loved, and married, and rode away, For this is the romance of Rustum." ?"Shah Nameh."
The lad, who had always cherished a romantic admiration for Rustum, was overjoyed to learn of his origin. Sohrab joined Afrasiab, the chief of the Tartars, to further a plan to overthrow the Persian king and to place Rustum on the throne. The war raged on giving the young warrior many adventures. Sohrab, anxious for an opportunity to distinguish himself, challenged the Persians to a single combat:
"Come then, hear now, and grant me what I ask. Let the two armies rest today; but I Will challenge forth the bravest Persian lords To meet me, man to man; if I prevail, Rustum will surely hear it; if I fall? Old man, the dead need no one, claim no kin. Dim is the rumor of a common fight, Where host meets host, and many names are sunk; But of a single combat fame speaks clear."
Peran-Wisa, the old Tartar general, pleaded with the restless youth:
"But, if this one desire indeed rules all, To seek out Rustum?seek him not through fight! Seek him in peace, and carry to his arms O Sohrab, carry an unwounded son!"
The pleading was in vain, so Peran Wisa took the challenge to the Persian camp. None of the Persians would volunteer to meet Sohrab, so they appealed to Rustum. At first he refused to be moved by Sohrab's vaunts. Later, however, he is moved to action, and agrees to fight unknown and in plain arms. Sohrab came forth, came seeking Rustum. The old warrior wondered as he eyed the adventurous youth:
"Who was he For very young he seemed, tenderly reared Like some young cypress, tall, and dark, and straight, Which in a queen's secluded garden throws Its slight dark shadow on the moonlit turf, By midnight, to a bubbling fountain's sound? So slender Sohrab seemed, so softly reared. And a deep pity entered Rustum's soul As he beheld him coming;.... 'O Sohrab, wherefore wilt thou rush on death?
 
Be governed; quit the Tartar host, and come To Iran, and be as my son to me, And fight beneath my banner till I die! There are no youths in Iran brave as thou. So he spake, mildly;'"
Sohrab was strangely moved, and, running to meet him, begged to know his name, for he had premonition that this was Rustum. Notwithstanding Sohrab's eager inquiries, Rustum refused to divulge his name:
"And then he turned and sternly spake aloud? 'Rise! Wherefore dost thou vainly question thus Of Rustum? I am here whom thou hast called By challenge forth; make good thy vaunt or yield! Is it with Rustum only thou wouldst fight?"
For three consecutive days father and son fought. Several times the son proposed that they sheathe their swords, for his heart continued to be attracted to his opponent, who, fighting down similar emotions, always taunted his antagonist into renewing the fight. On the fifth day Rustum, forgetting everything in the excitement of the moment, met his foe with his usual war cry, "Rustum, Rustum." Sohrab, hearing the shout, stood bewildered, and instead of meeting the onslaught, he sank beneath his father's blow:
"For that beloved name unnerved my arm,? That name, and something, I confess, in thee, Which troubles all my heart, and made my shield Fall; and thy spear transfixed an unarmed foe. The mighty Rustum shall avenge my death! My father, whom I seek through all the world, He shall avenge my death, and punish thee!"
On hearing these words, Rustum anxiously demanded explanations, only to learn that he had mortally wounded his own son. The father would gladly have died with his son in his anguish but Sohrab pleaded:
"Desire not that, my father! Thou must live. For some are born to do great deed, and live, As some are born to be obscured, and die."
And "Awe fell on both the hosts, When they saw Rustum's grief."
The poem is more than an episode, it is a perfect illustration of what Matthew Arnold meant by his claim that literature "is a criticism of life."
Suggestions for Study
A. Materials.
1. The Story of the World's Literature, Chapters 1-3.....................Macy
2. The Outline of Literature.......................Drinkwater
3. What Literature Can Do for Me...................Smith
4. The Appreciation of Literature.................Woodberry
B. Program.
1. Music. Poems set to music?The poems of Robert Burns.
2. Discussion. A. The Making of Books. B. The Making of Literature.
3. Reading. A. Passages from "Sohrab and Rustum." B. Lines 515-890 to conclude the narrative.
C. Method. The lesson is planned as an introductory lesson for the entire course. It is necessary that the argument be given careful consideration. The aim of the lesson is the appreciation of literature.
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
Facts ON PHYSICAL GROWTH,
LESSON X
Knowledge plus a will to use knowledge in doing one's work gives one added power. Effective child care is dependent on the growth results of what is done for children. This lesson has two aims: 1. To develop a desire on the part of parents to use knowledge about the physical growth of children in planning their clothes, recreation, education, daily work, and other activities. 2. To give facts to be learned and used by the class members.
Suggestions for Procedure:
Assign the reading guide for careful home study. This will achieve the first aim and point out how the information given in the supplementary material has immediate value to parents and teachers. Assign for topical study, analysis and report the following items from the report of White House Conference 1930. Take time in class to have these reports given.
Relation of physical growth to poverty, pp. 143-146. Relation of physical growth to the school plant, p. 169. School lunch, p. 174.
Discuss in class the facts given in the supplementary material and encourage class members to memorize them as far as possible.
Reading guide: Growth, pp. 8-15. On page 15 it is made quite emphatic that bodily growth is essential for all development?mental and social. The material on pages 8-15 is designed to do three things for the reader: first, to make clear the difference between the absence of sickness and a condition of health and natural growth; second, to call attention to the facts regarding the rhythmic periods of rate of growth; third, to urge the application of present knowledge of caring for children's physical welfare to the things we actually do.
Problem 1. Is it justifiable to place the responsibility for children's ill-health on heredity or on parents' care? P. 8.
Problem 2. Note carefully the new definition of "Healthy growth." p. 12.
Problem 3. Make a list of the specific items listed on pages 8, 9, 13. Go to class prepared to review lessons studied in previous years on the proper care of children in respect to each of these items.
Problem 4. Be sure that you see clearly the significance of the distinction between growth in size and growth as development or maturing of functions.
Problem 5. Work out the author's belief on the relations of heredity to physical health and growth.
Problem 7. Make similar lists of the special rhythmic and other facts about growth as given on page 11. The problems on page 13-14 are worth working out by each individual class member.
Supplementary material: Information of value in adjusting child care to the status of physical growth.
TABLE I. MEAN HEIGHTS, WEIGHTS
Obtained by United States Public Health Service (1), and Bird T. Baldwin (2). (From United States Public Health Reports, vol. 37, no. 20 (May 19, 1922), p. 1194.)
Age at Height (inches) Weight (pounds) Nearest Boys Girls Boys Girls Birthday 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2
LESSON DEPARTMENT
This table is valuable because it shows in actual pounds and inches the average growth rate. The differences in size of girls and boys is clearly shown.
TABLE II. PERCENTAGE RATE OF INCREASE IN HEIGHT AND WEIGHT
Data from United States Public Health Reports, vol. 37, no. 20 (May, 1922), p. 1191 (1), and Baldwin, Bird T.: Physical Growth of Children from Birth to Maturity, p. 157 (2).)
 Height (percent) Weight (percent)
Age Period Boys Girls Boys Girls 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2