[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Launder | Author: Kent]
[Launder That White Shirt Yourself Ruth K. Kent]
JLaunder  olhat  Vi/hite  Shirt    Ljourself 
Ruth  K.  Kent 
OEND  a  white  shirt  to  the  laundry  a  few  times,  and  you  v/ill  spend  enough  to  buy 
^  a  new  shirt.  It  is  easy  to  do  up  a  white  shirt  when  you  know  how.  This  is  the 
way  I  have  found  to  be  best  for  me. 
The  ironing  itself  is  not  so  much  the  problem  as  the  preparation  for  ironing.  First 
the  washing — scrub  the  collar  and  cuffs  with  soap  and  a  stiff  brush.  Wash  as  usual 
and  rinse  out  all  the  soap.  It  is  advisable  to  rinse  a  white  shirt  even  though  a  no-rinse 
detergent  has  been  used,  in  order  to  rid  it  of  any  grimy  water.  Hang  the  shirt  on  the 
line  by  the  back  shirttail,  being  sure  to  spread  it  wide.  Pull  the  collar,  cuffs,  and  but- 
ton hole  pleat  down  the  front  into  shape.  Hang  in  the  sun  to  dry,  if  possible,  or 
someplace  in  the  air,  where  the  shirt  will  dry  quickly.  If  it  must  be  dried  inside,  do 
not  crowd  it. 
Do  not  starch  the  shirt  until  it  is  dry.  To  starch,  use  one  tablespoon  of  a  good 
starch  to  one  cup  of  warm  water.  (Use  more  starch  if  the  shirt  is  to  be  stiffer,  but 
that  must  be  determined  by  experimenting).  Add  one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  the  starch 
and  stir  well.  Now  dip  the  collar  into  the  starch,  rub  it  in  well,  and  wring  out. 
Do  the  same  with  the  cuffs,  being  careful  not  to  get  the  starch  on  the  sleeves.  And 
for  an  especially  good  job,  gather  just  the  pleat  in  front  into  your  hand  and  dip  it 
into  the  starch  and  wring  out.     Now  sprinkle  the  whole   shirt  and   roll   tightly. 
Before  ironing,  make  these  important  preparations:  See  that  the  iron  is  clean. 
Wash  off  the  bottom,  and,  if  necessary,  scour  off  lightly  any  black  spots.  Place  a 
clean  dish  towel  or  part  of  an  old  sheet  over  the  ironing  board  cover.  Spread  news- 
papers on  the  floor  beneath  the  ironing  board.  And,  if  available,  put  a  piece  of  beeswax 
or  ironing  wax  beneath  the  ironing  board  cover  at  the  head  of  the  board.  Set  the 
iron  just  below  "cotton,"  or  approximately  350  degrees.  If  the  iron  is  too  hot,  it  will 
leave  scorch  marks  where  repeated  ironing  is  necessary. 
First  iron  the  under  side  of  the  collar,  pushing  in  from  the  corners  to  the  center. 
Iron  the  band  until  it  seems  dry.  Turn  over  and  do  the  outside  of  the  collar,  being 
careful  to  push  any  fullness  to  the  back  of  the  collar.  Now  move  the  collar  to  the 
far  edge  of  the  board  and  let  it  hang  over.  Iron  the  collar  band  on  the  edge  of  the 
board  until  it  seems  dry.  If  the  iron  pulls  hard,  rub  it  across  the  wax  placed  at  the 
head  of  the  board  and  it  will  glide  smoothly. 
Iron  the  cuffs  on  the  wrong  side  from  the  bottom  edge  toward  the  sleeve.  Push 
the  iron  up  into  the  sleeve  from  the  inside  of  the  cuff.  Now,  do  the  right  side  of  the 
cuff.  Flatten  the  sleeve  along  the  underarm  seam  and  iron  the  sleeve  flat  on  the 
board,  doing  the  side  with  the  placket  first.  Iron  out  all  the  wrinkles  carefully  where 
the  sleeve  joins  the  cuff  and  do  the  placket  neatly.  Turn  the  sleeve  over  and  do  the 
other  side.  If  the  sleeve  seems  to  pucker  at  the  underarm  seam,  pull  and  stretch  the 
seam  while  ironing. 
Fold  the  shirt  along  the  line  where  the  back  is  seamed  to  the  yoke.  Lay  the 
yoke  flat  on  the  board  and  iron  carefully. 
Iron  the  left  front  first,  starting  at  the  underarm  seam  and  working  towards  the 
buttons.  1  hen  do  the  back,  then  the  right  front.  Iron  the  pleat  on  the  right  front 
on  the  underside  first,  then  iron  dry  and  smooth  on  the  right  side.  This  is  one  of  the 
most  important  tilings  to  watch  when  ironing  a  white  shirt.  The  shirttail  ne^d  not 
be  done  so  carefully. 
Go  over  the  collar  and  cuffs  once  again.  Hang  the  shirt  on  a  hanger  to  dry.  And 
it  is  best  to  store  shirts  on  hangers  if  there  is  hanging  space  available. 
Page  310

LAUNDER  THAT  WHITE  SHIRT  YOURSELF  311 
If  the  shirt  must  be  folded,  do  it  the  way  the  army  does.  Button  the  shirt  and 
place  it  on  a  large  flat  surface  (bed  or  table)  back  down.  Gently  fold  the  collar  down 
against  the  breast  of  the  shirt.  Fold  one  sleeve  straight  across  the  front,  the  other 
sleeve  over  the  first  one.  Lift  the  shirt  tail  and  fold  it  a  third  of  the  way  up.  Now 
lift  this  fold  and  place  it  even  with  the  top  of  the  shirt.  The  shirt  is  now  just  the 
right  size  to  lay  away  in  a  dresser  drawer  or  a  suitcase.  If  it  must  be  made  smaller, 
fold  it  in  three,  once  from  left  to  right,  then  the  other  side  over  this.  It  will  come 
out  unwrinkled  in  the  places  that  show  the  most. 
It  takes  a  little  practice  to  learn  how  to  launder  a  white  shirt,  but  it  pays  off 
in  savings,  and  in  a  man's  pride  when  someone  asks  him,  "Say,  who  does  your  shirts 
so  well?" 
tylnrnversara  oc 
nniversary  oouvenirs 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
'T^HIS  morning,  while  rummaging  through  my  spacious  treasure-chest  of  memory  to 
■^      find  the  gift  of  love  I  needed  in  my  longing  for  children's  laughter,  I  came  across 
a  box  carefully  wrapped  and  labeled,  "Anniversary  Gifts,   1934." 
Tears  flowed  freely  as  I  opened  each  parcel  wrapped  in  plain  brown  wrapping 
paper  and  saw  the  cherished  gifts  and  the  childish  writing  on  the  homemade,  flower- 
decorated  cards.  The  first  revealed  a  small  rag  dolly  fashioned  out  of  old  white  knitted 
underwear  by  the  untrained  hands  of  a  Httle  daughter  of  eight,  the  face  worked  in 
black  uneven  stitches,  the  body  stuflfed  with  bits  of  underwear  cut  fine  by  fingers  that 
yearned  to  do  artistic  work  like  her  twelve-year-old  sister.  Her  gift,  when  opened, 
proved  to  be  a  hanky  made  from  a  salt  sack,  hemmed  and  embroidered  by  small  hands 
which  at  that  tender  age  were  prophetic  of  her  later  skill. 
A  bitter-sweet  fragrance  escaped  as  I  began  unwrapping  the  next  gift,  a  "bookay 
of  buetiful  dandelines"  from  my  four-year-old  son  whose  note  had  been  written  by  his 
older  brother.  Again  I  saw  the  childish  beauty  of  this  curly-haired  "little  brother" 
gathering  the  flowers  for  me.    Again  I  heard  the  hlting  music  of  his  laughter. 
I  opened  the  last  parcel  with  the  hands  of  love  tightening  about  my  heart,  and 
pearls  of  tenderness  illumining  my  eyes,  for  the  lad  whose  gift  this  was,  is  with  us  no 
more.  Tied  to  the  handle  of  a  little  basket  made  of  burrs  and  filled  with  moss  and 
wild  violets,  was  a  note  in  a  loxed,  remembered  boyish  scrawl:  "I  have  no  muney,  but 
I  luv  you." 
Again  I  saw  this  lad  as  a  chubby  babe  of  two  sitting  in  the  dooryard  of  a  rented 
home,  sans  lawns  and  flowers,  pulling  bunch  after  bunch  of  the  first  tiny  redroots  of 
spring  and  laughing  for  very  joy  as  he  saw  the  pink  rootlets.  Seeing  me  watching,  he 
held  up  a  handful,  calling,  "See!  Pitty,  mama,  pitty!" 
He  loved  beauty  even  then  and  found  it  in  the  pink  of  the  roots  of  weeds.  I 
recalled  how,  as  he  grew  older,  he  was  always  bringing  me  starts  of  flowers  for  the  win- 
dow, and  later  on  for  a  garden  by  our  very  own  home.  With  gratitude  in  my  heart 
that  God  had  let  me  keep  him  until  he  was  mature,  I  offered  up  a  prayer  that  he  is 
finding  beauty  in  the  heavenly  gardens  as  he  walks  through  them  at  sunrise  as  he  loved 
to  do  here. 
What  wealth  was  mine  that  morning  as  each  shyly  gave  his  gift! 
Since  then  I  have  received  beautiful  and  costly  gifts,  but  none  have  given  me 
greater  joy  than  those  simple  offerings  of  love  on  that  anniversary  in  "our  poverty 
year"  when  there  were  no  nickels  to  spare.