[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womens | Author: Cannon]
[Women's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
helped.  There  is  love  between  her 
and  a  hundred  women  she  never 
knew  before.  Most  of  all,  there  is 
a  realization  and  a  firm  testimony 
in  her  heart  that  wards  are  living, 
complex  units  that  need  a  mother. 
And  the  children?  We  enjoy  our 
miracle  Mother.  And  it  hasn't  hurt 
us  girls  at  all  to  cook  a  little  more 
often,  sew  on  a  few  buttons  our- 
selves, or  even  to  think  now  and 
then  that  "he"  surely  would  have 
called,  if  Mother  hadn't  been  presi- 
dent of  the  Relief  Society.

(bixtii    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woninii's  Exponent,  May  i,  and  May  15,  1894 
*'FoR  THE  Rights  of  the  \\'omen  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
THE  WOMAN'S  CO-OPERATIVE  INSTITUTION:  Keeps  on  hand  dress 
goods  and  trimmings,  fancy  articles  and  notions,  books  and  stationery,  equipose  waists. 
Dressmaking  in  all  its  branches,  millinery,  latest  styles,  hats  and  bonnets  cleaned  and 
retrimmed.     Feathers  curled.     Stamping  done  to  order. 
— Selected 
WOMAN'S  SPHERE:  The  Father  chose  her  by  and  through  whom  all  his 
spiritual  children  should  come  to  earth,  and  so  ordered  that  she  should  be  first  to  know 
the  advent  of  the  spirit  to  its  home  .  .  .  and  not  until  she  has  endowed  it  with  the 
virtues  of  her  soul  does  she  present  it  a  priceless  offering  to  the  Lord.  Thus  woman  is 
recognized  by  the  eternal  decree  of  the  Father  to  be  the  first  to  cherish  humanity  .... 
In  view  of  the  fact  that  there  can  be  no  man  .  .  .  without  woman,  we  may  cease  to 
talk  about  woman's  sphere  as  though  it  had  a  limit,  other  than  the  world  in  which  she 
moves.  — S.  W.  Richards 
THE  ORIGIN  OF  LIFE 
We're  now  laying  foundations  of  what  we  shall  be. 
For  life's  current  extends  to  eternity's  sea; 
And  whatever  debases,  ennobles,  refines, 
By  our  acts  we  imprint  in  indelible  lines. 
We're  the  offspring  of  God.    We  should  never  degrad( 
The  form  which  at  first  in  His  image  was  made  .... 
— Eliza  R.  Snow 
TROUBLE:  Never  bear  more  than  one  trouble  at  a  time.  Some  people  bear 
three  kinds  —  all  they  ever  had,  all  they  have  now,  and  all  they  expect  to  have. 
— Edward  Everett  Hale 
HERITAGE:  ....  While  we  journey  onward  and  upward,  let  us  clasp  hands 
as  sisters  in  sweet  assurance  of  helping  each  other  to  cross  the  desert  of  ignorance  and 
the  dark  river  of  tradition,  where  the  little  boats  of  error  and  superstition  glide  in  and 
out  alluring  the  unwary.  W^  will  watch  for  the  beacon  light  of  truth  that  shines  from 
afar  over  the  Elysian  fields  of  knowledge  and  understanding.  And  while  we  pursue 
our  pioneer  march,  let  us  not  forget  the  innumerable  company  that  follow  in  our  wake, 
and  leave  for  them  shining  waymarks,  hopeful  harbingers  of  success  in  attaining  the 
goal  of  our  ambitions.  — Selected 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  BOX  ELDER  STAKE:  Quarterly 
conference  of  the  Relief  Society  of  Box  Elder  Stake  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  at 
Brigham  City,  on  the  13th  of  March.  President  Olivia  Widerborg  presiding.  Sister 
Bowring:  I  heard  Brother  Kimball  once  say  we  should  be  as  clay  in  the  potter's  hand, 
if  we  depend  on  the  Lord  we  shall  be  so.  We  can  do  a  great  deal  of  good  to  each 
other  ....  Emelia  D.  Madsen:  It  is  a  sacred  calling  to  be  a  president  or  an  officer  in 
the  Relief  Society.  The  teachers  in  visiting  should  try  to  find  the  needy.  They  need 
to  possess  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  spirit  of  discernment,  and  great  big  hearts  that 
they  may  find  even  those  who  shrink  from  recei\ing  help  in  their  need  ....  Counselor 
Mary  Wright:  Let  us  not  find  fault  with  each  other,  it  is  weakening  to  ourselyes,  let 
us  do  all  the  good  we  can  .... 
— Emelia  D.  Madsen,  Cor.  Sec. 
Page  300

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
gMMA   RAY   RIGGS   McKAY, 
wife  of  President  David  O. 
McKay  of  The  Chureh  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  has  been 
named  Utah's  "Mother  of  the  Yeai" 
for  1Q54.  She  will  go  to  New  York 
City  this  month  to  join  other  state 
winners  in  the  events  taking  place 
when  the  ''American  Mother  of  the 
Year"  will  be  chosen.  Mrs.  McKay, 
mother,  homemaker,  musician,  has 
long  been  active  in  community  and 
Church  activities  and  has  accom- 
panied President  McKay  upon  his 
world  travels. 
O LIVE      WOOLLEY      BURT 
(Mrs.  Clinton  R.  Burt),  noted 
and  dynamic  Salt  Lake  author,  has 
three  new  volumes  on  the  market. 
Young  Jed  Smith— Westering  Boy 
is  an  interesting,  action-filled  story 
of  this  famous  personality  of  the 
early  West;  Camel  Express  is  the 
tale  of  a  strange  and  little  known 
episode  in  Western  history;  and 
Peter's  Sugar  Farm,  has  West  Jord- 
an, Utah,  as  its  locale. 
lyiRS.  BENJAMIN  F.  (Ardella 
^  *  Bitner)  TIBBY,  a  native  Salt 
Laker,  but  for  the  last  twenty-one 
years  superintendent  of  the  Comp- 
ton  City  Schools,  Compton,  Cali- 
fornia,  delivered  one  of  the  prin- 
cipal addresses  at  the  convention  of 
the  American  Association  of  School 
Administrators,  held  in  Atlantic 
City,  New  Jersey,  in  February.  Past 
normal  retiring  age,  Mrs.  Tibby  is 
considered  too  valuable  to  the 
school  system  to  be  permitted  to 
leave.  She  ranks  as  one  of  the  fore- 
most women  educators  in  America. 
QRANDMA  MOSES,  ninety- 
three,  has  just  presented  one  of 
her  latest  primitive  paintings,  'The 
Battle  of  Bennington,"  to  the 
Daughters  of  the  American  Revolu- 
tion. 
"DIRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to  Mrs.  Lizzie  Col- 
born,  Salt  Lake  City,  one  hundred 
one;  Mrs.  Susanna  Matilda  Cowels 
Huish,  Spring  Lake,  Utah,  ninety- 
nine;  Mrs.  Catherine  Matilda  Beck, 
San  Leandro,  California,  ninety- 
eight;  Mrs.  Euphemia  Jane  Carter 
Freeman,  Salt  Lake  City,  ninety- 
seven;  Mrs.  Margaret  Blair  Crab- 
tree,  Idaho  Falls,  Idaho,  ninety- 
three;  Mrs.  Martha  Musser  Sheets 
Davis,  Salt  Lake  City,  ninety-three; 
Mrs.  Sarah  Elizabeth  Goodwin  Bin- 
nal.  Granger,  Utah,  ninety;  Mrs. 
Rosella  Marie  P.  T.  Jacobsen,  Mt. 
Pleasant,  Utah,  ninety. 
Page  301
