[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Scott]
[The Birth of a Heritage — The Gospel in England Elsie Scott]

I said I felt guilty about that, but I thought it Page 318 would come after we were married —the right feeling, I mean. And then you said admiration was not love." Her incoherent words made beautiful sense to Steve, but he refrained from pressing the questions that rushed in upon him. "Go on," he said. "It was finally the babies." "The babies?" queried Steve. "Your babies—Phyllis and Ilene. The way they came to me last Saturday. We quarreled about it, and you know, Steve, a quarrel is sometimes a very good thing. 'Truth comes out in a quarrel. Rex doesn't want children. He said he was never going to have any children, and I could jolly well make up my mind to that." "Could a man really mean a thing like that?" marvelled Steve. "He meant it, all right. He said he had worked hard for his place in his profession, and no encumbrance of children was going to change his course. He said family responsibilities had wrecked his father's career, forcing him into choices he did not want, and they were not going to wreck his. I could never change his ideas on that, or, in fact, anything else. I could see very clearly what my life would be.

The Birth of a Heritage — The Gospel in England Elsie Scott EMBERS of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who visit Preston, England, whether they be from other towns in Great Britain or from America, almost invariably express the pleasure and interest they feel in being privileged to visit this historic town and to see the places which played such a vital part in the propagation of the gospel in this land. It was about four in the afternoon of the 22d of July 1837 that Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Orson Hyde, and _ Joseph Fielding, with three brethren from Canada, John Goodson, Isaac Russell, and John Snyder, arrived in Preston. They had landed in Liverpool, but lingered there only long enough to seek guidance from the Lord, and in answer to their prayers were directed to continue their journey to Preston, another thirty miles — a much longer journey then than it is today. Elections, commanded by the new Queen Victoria, were taking place with much celebration as these weary men, strangers in a strange land, entered the town of Preston. They were heartened by the message on a banner unfurled, almost above their heads, which stated in gilt letters "TRuTH WILL PrevaiL." An omen? A message to the messengers? Truth did indeed prevail. It was opportune that one of the missionaries, Joseph Fielding, had a brother in Preston, a minister, and while Joseph went to visit with his brother, the other brethren found lodging in Wilfred Street, but visited with the Rev. James Fielding on the evening of arrival where they discussed the restoration of the gospel. An invitation to attend the Vaux Hall chapel next day was speedily accepted, as was the later invitation to address the congregation. This was a direct answer to the prayer of Heber C. Kimball that the Lord would open the way for them to preach. Viewing the sadly forsaken, dilapidated chapel today, with its rows of empty seats, it is difficult to imagine the large congregation that gathered on that Sabbath day to hear these strange men who spoke of angels again visiting the earth, restoring the gospel in all its truth to men. Of that first public meeting to be held in Great Britain on the 23d of July 1837, Elder Kimball has this to say: I declared that an angel had visited the earth and committed the everlasting Gospel to man; called their attention to the first principles of the Gospel; and gave them a brief history of the work which the Lord had commenced on the earth; after which Elder Hyde bore testimony to the same, which was received by many with whom I afterwards conversed; they cried, "Glory to God," and rejoiced that the Lord had sent His servants unto them. Thus was the key turned and the Gospel dispensation opened on the Page 287 288 first Sabbath after gg in England (Wuitney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, page 125). HAT the field was white and ready to harvest is proved by the way the people of Preston accepted the message and flocked to hear more of the glorious truths. The Rev. James Fielding, finding his congregation, and with them his livelihood, leaving, closed the chapel doors to the missionaries, but the Lord's work could not be impeded, and many of the people invited the elders to preach in their homes. So great was their success that several people were anxious to be baptized at the end of the elders' first week in England., No person who reads the Bible and believes can doubt the existence any, Bs — j, od a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 of evil spirits, and it was in the room where the elders lodged in Wilfred Street, the encounter with the hosts of evil occurred, on the morning of the day on which the baptisms were to be performed, Sunday, 30th July, 1837 Enraged, no doubt, at the success the elders were having in guiding the people in the truth, the forces of evil made a determined effort to destroy the lives and plans of the missi@naries, "Weber "C. Kimball recounts: About daybreak Elder Isaac Russell who slept with Elder Richards in Wilfred Street, came up to the third story, where Elder Hyde and myself were ane ing, and called out, "Brother Kimball, want you should get up and pray for me that I may be delivered from the evil spirits that are tormenting me to such a PAK HALL Ob Pad Bs ee OAPI TULA GAP TIST oF Sr AOE Ae te a Aan fi. A eg 4 = a oo Courtesy Church Historian's Office VAUX HALL, PRESTON, ENGLAND THE GOSPEL IN ENGLAND 289 INTERIOR OF THE PRESTON BRANCH CHAPEL degree that I feel I cannot live long unless I obtain relief (Wutrney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, page 129). The elders arose and laid their hands on the tormented man, FIder Kimball being mouth, and prayed to the Lord, and rebuked the devil, but Elder Kimball himself was struck by some unseen power and fell senseless on the floor. When he recovered, they continued to pray, and a vision was opened to the minds of these great men. 'They saw legions of evil spirits coming towards them like armies rushing to battle, angry and desperate. Is it to be wondered at that Elder Kimball stated that he could never look back on that scene without feelings of horror? Yet by it, horrifying though it was, they learned the great power of the opposing forces and the Lord did not forsake them. HOSE early missionaries had undaunted faith; they had a strong testimony of the divinity of the work they were called to do; and through Preston. Not all the power of hell could turn them from their purpose. Indeed, it is likely that their vision strengthened their testimonies and their determination to go forward and spread the gospel to all who would hear it. And so the time set for the baptisms found the elders on the banks of the River Ribble, which runs 'They were not alone, however. Great interest had been aroused in the minds of the people. Baptizing as practiced by this strange new Church was something unheard of, and it is recorded that between seven and nine thousand people gathered to witness the baptisms of these first nine converts. There is a story told about the first woman in England to enter the waters of baptism. She was Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, who is said to have been in the last stages of tuberculosis, and had been warned by her doctor that to enter the cold waters of the river would be fatal for her. Her faith was strong, however, and she was carried to the riverside and was baptized. 290 What stories this picturesque river could tell if it were able to speak! But surely none would be more inspiring than the events of that Sabbath. Only on one other such occasion has an event attracted people in their thousands, and that was the visit of President RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Heber J. Grant, who unveiled the plaque on the 27th of July 1937, commemmorating those first baptisms a century before. Preston Branch holds a firm place in the British Mission, and proud are the Preston saints of their heritage and their lovely new chapel. *K *K *K *K Cocontiion Roxana Farnsworth Hase Ov of doors Spring stretched her graceful, fragrant fingers almost across the pebbled walk leading up to the white house. It was as though she wished that she might venture clear inside. Yet, a bit of her glory was there, for the second daughter had gathered enough lovely white blossoms to fill the blue vase on the table in the room. She had taken them in quietly, and no one had bade her stay. Perhaps they thought her too young. The room was hushed, as though church might be about to begin. Yet, this was not a church, but a small, clean room. The people there were assembled for a particular purpose. Each one was busy with his or her own thoughts and tasks. This was an eventful day. The world at large had never even heard of the woman who was soon to be crowned a queen there. She was young and beautiful, with a certain radiance of countenance hard to describe. Her coronation was not a sudden, spur of the moment thing, as though someone had abdicated. It had been in preparation for almost a year. 'The principals had been well instructed as to what to expect and do. The preparations, while adequate, were by no means elaborate. The queen's gown was of snowy white cotton. It boasted no fine handmade imported lace or golden threads. There was no mile-long train, no ermine robe, no richly accoutered retinue, no high-stepping steeds with rich trappings. Missing was the martial music and gay aplomb, yet the expectancy of the moment filled all the room. The one person who could make the coronation a certainty had not yet arrived. It was this momentarily expected presence which gave such a somber air to the proceedings. Off to one side an elderly lady was praying with bowed head. She was the queen mother, and perhaps the most concerned of all, to have everything go off well. 'The queen herself, as she waited almost breathlessly, seemed in a tranquil state, for this was her day. The silence became more intense. No one so much as whispered. Then in an instant all was changed. 'The awaited guest had arrived! "It is a boy!" the doctor announced happily, and a lusty wail let everyone know that the prince was very much alive. The young man gathered the queen into his arms and kissed her as he smoothed her shining hair. In her eyes was a radiance that seemed brighter than stardust to him; his eyes were misty because the woman who had just received the most precious crown in all the world, the Crown of Motherhood, was his wife. Lest She Forget Hazel K. Todd ARTHA had always known M through those three wonderful years that some day Linda's father Kent would come and take her away. She would see him, in imagination, coming through the apple orchard up the currant bush path that led to the home where she and Chris lived. She would see Kent's lean frame and his dark hair and the stride of his long legs. He would come and take away his child even as he had brought her that spring morning after her mother had been buried in the hillside cemetery. And then she and Chris would be left lonely and childless again, just as they had been before the loan of the tiny bit of sunshine that had filled the empty places with laughter and the long days and evenings with useful things to do. Martha tried not to think of that time, but it had a cruel way of slipping onto her unexpectedly in the night when the crickets kept her awake, or when Linda sat at her knee and she brushed the shining ripples of her yellow hair. Sometimes it cut her like a keen-edged knife when she saw Chris carrying Linda on his shoulders and chanting to her one of his funny rhymes. Just as now, she saw them coming through the orchard, Chris holding to Linda's bare legs that were round his neck. 'The little girl had a sprig of apple blossom stuck jauntily into her hair and she laughed merrily while Chris, in his deep, good natured voice sang out the words: Bow wow wow, The beggars are coming to town Some in rags, some in shags, And some in silken gowns Chris saw Martha then where she sat with her pan of strawberries on the garden bench. With an upward swing of his big arm, he slid his burden gently to the ground, and the little girl came running to Martha. She scrambled onto the bench and grasped the woman by the neck. "Guess what, Aunt Martha!" she babbled with excitement. "What?" Martha asked with interest. "Chris's goin' to build me a playhouse!" "A playhouse?" Martha exclaimed, kissing the child's hands round her neck. "A house with a chimney and a table and a cupboard, and." "Wonderful!" Martha tried to squeeze the ache from her heart. "May I go tell Peter?" the child asked, still bubbling. "Why, I guess so, if you won't be late for supper,' Martha said, and she watched the little girl run away on nimble bare legs across the orchard path. "Like a fairy elf," she whispered, and Chris came and sat down by her. He lifted the pan of berries from her lap and set them on the edge of the bench. "Could it be we're going to have strawberry pie for supper?" he asked, resting his hand affectionately on hers. Page 291 292 ARTHIA half smiled at him and then suddenly she clutched his arm, "Oh, how can we ever give her up, Chris?" she held onto him desperately. Chris patted her hand reassuringly. He was always so calm about it. But she saw him gaze out across the apple trees to the green roof of the house beyond where Linda's parents had lived. "Three years is a long time, Martha. I have been thinking that maybe Kent will never come back." But Martha knew that Chris knew better. And after he had gone she still kept looking at the green roof that had become in the three years, an emblem to remind her that Linda was not really hers. She went back again to the days when Kent and Ann had lived there together. They had been so much in love. And she had shared with Ann the coming of her baby, a joy that would never be her own. But Ann had never been well after the birth of little Linda. More and more she had relied on Martha to help her with the baby and her other home responsibilities. And then had come the time when she could no longer take care of them at all. So she had died, and they had buried her in the hillside cemetery. Kent's grief had been an awful thing. In the early morning he had come to her carrying Linda, scarcely more than a year old. He had laid the tiny, golden-haired girl in her arms while his voice choked with tears. ""I'ake care of her, Martha, for me. I know you and Chris will do it better than anyone else in the world. When I can stand it alone here without Ann I will come RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 back. Just for a little while, Martha."" And then he had gone hurriedly down the path by the currant bushes, leaving Linda whimpering for her mother. Since then time had fled on wings of lightning for Martha, busy with her new-found joy. The days had lengthened into weeks and months. Three times the apple trees had bloomed. 'There had been_ brief messages from Kent, from different corners of the earth, and gifts for Linda, who babbled about a daddy that she couldn't remember, while Linda's life wound itself tighter and tighter around the hearts of two lonely people. ARTHA was brought back from her reverie by the voices of Linda and Peter. 'They were coming through the orchard from Peters home, where he lived alone with his aged grandmother. Linda, skipping and Peter with his ragged overalls, his hundreds of freckles, and his stick horse that bucked and galloped for Linda's attention. "Aunt Martha, where is Chris?" Linda soon wanted to know. "Has he got my playhouse builded yet? Peter wants to see my playhouse." "Already?" Martha — laughed. "Why, darling, it takes days and days to build a playhouse. But I am sure Peter can see it when it's built." Peter grinned, showing a vacant space in his upper tooth row. Chris came then and took turns with the two children, bucking and galloping like a wild horse around the giant tree until he was so worn out he had to sit down on the ground to rest. LEST SHE FORGET "Will you build my playhouse tomorrow?" Linda wanted to know emphatically, as she climbed onto his knee. "Tf you will first let me tickle your toes and then your nose," Chris said to her with a funny wink. And she pulled his nose in merriment. But to Martha there was something ominous about the playhouse, as though it were a foreboding of disaster. Perhaps it was because she thought of it as something permanent, something to last through the years, the ones that were so uncertain. Even when she measured the tiny windows and planned the pink ruffled curtains, she had to shake off a sense of calamity. 'Too often she caught herself staring at the green roof beyond the apple trees. At night when she had tucked Linda into bed she found it almost impossible to tear herself away from the child's bed. Once when she sat thus, staring at the sleeping child, she turned and caught Chris watching her from the doorway. She was almost embarrassed, and in her bewilderment she went to hin and slipped her hand into his. He squeezed it without saying anything. Suddenly she turned to him impulsively and said, "Oh, Chris, what is wrong about the playhouse? I feel as though it were taking Linda away from me!" Then Chris let go her hand and held onto her arms with his two strong hands. He looked down into her face in tender solicitude. '"Martha, don't let this come over you. It is the one thing I have been afraid of since that morning when 293 Kent left us his little girl. Perhaps she will always be ours, but, if she isn't, we must remember—we must not forget the things that are left!' Martha understood. It seemed she had always to be reminded. She looked at Chris gratefully. Big, understanding Chris! He had always come to her in her desperate moments. 'Forgive me, Chris," she said. "It is a wonderful playhouse. Tomorrow I will finish the curtains." ND so the next evening Martha sat on the garden bench and stitched the pink curtains while Linda played with Peter in the sand pile. A little while ago she had seen him tickling her legs with a long stick and Linda had chased him around the apple tree with a bucket of sand, but now they were busy sticking sprigs of apple blossom into the tiny rows of sand they had made. Martha was finishing a red rosette on the tie-back. She laid it in her lap and looked up from the intricate work a moment to rest her eyes. And then she saw Kent as she always knew she would, coming up the path through the apple orchard, his long stride rapidly measuring off the distance between them. She watched him coming = as though in a dream. Suddenly it was a crazy world that reeled and switled, with somewhere a familiar face from out of the past that went round and round and_ presently came to a standstill immediatcly before her, so close that she could see the gray of his hair. It was appalling! Only three years ago his hair had been completely a dark brown, and now the temples were entirely 294 white, with streaks of gray throughout his head. Her lips formed the words, but it was a long time before she could make the sound come. "You—you have come for her!" "Don't you think it is about time?" Kent asked, watching her intently. "But—but you have been gone so long." "Don't you remember, Martha, I said I would come back?" Then she felt Chris beside her, felt the strength come into her numbed body, and she could think. Chris was putting out his hand to the man standing there by the apple tree. "Kent, old man, it's good to see you." Martha stood up, trying to think of the things she must do. "Linda!" she called, and the little girl came skipping her one-leg skip. "Your daddy is here." ARTHA watched while every fibre of her body wanted to cry out in rebellion, as the little girl came hesitantly forward. Her hair was tousled from her play, but never before had Martha seen the lights shine so in it. Her hand slid into its yellow glory while she watched the man before them. He caught his breath quickly, and impulsively put out his hand. "Linda—Linda—my little girl!' She came forward then, and he leaned and lifted her into his arms. He ran his fingers through her curls. "You are the picture of your mother," he said. "Aunt Martha says I have honeycandy hair," Linda said. "Yes, Linda, like hers—wild honey hair. 'ell me, are you a good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 girl? Do you do what Aunt Marthat and Chris tell you to?" "Peter doesn't mind his grandmother sometimes," the little girl said. "Sometimes he comes over here when she doesn't know it." "Now, who could Peter be?" The child pointed her finger to the sand pile where a little frecklefaced boy sat forlornly looking on. "That's Peter," she said. "Oh," Kent said, gazing at the lonely little figure. And then he added quickly, "I brought you something. Perhaps you can share it with Peter." He drew a long package from his pocket, hurriedly tore off the wrapping and opened the lid. Linda clapped her hands with pleasure. It was a box of tiny plastic birds. "Here, put them in your flower garden," he said, handing her the box. She took it excitedly and ran calling to Peter with the new-found treasure. "How will you take care of her?" Martha asked, sitting on the bench to relieve the wobbling inher knees. OR a while Kent looked beyond the apple trees. Then he said simply, "I am going to be married." Martha stared at him. "She is a lovely girl, Martha. You see she was lonely, too. She lost her husband in the war. It has been wonderful, the peace that has treturned to me since I met Joyce." He looked away again. "It is different from Ann, Martha. But I know we will find happiness together. And she will make a wonderful mother for Linda." LEST SHE FORGET The words cut like a knife. Martha could feel her face burning. She saw the confused look on Kent's face. He came quickly and sat down beside her. "Forgive me, Martha. I don't want to hurt you. I know you have been the best mother in the world for Linda. But don't you understand—I can't give up my little girl—the only thing I have left of that lovely past. Ann would not want me to give our child away." Martha had been struggling desperately. She spoke with forced calmness. "Yes, Kent, I have always tried to remember that Linda was not ours, and that sometime you would come back for her." There was one last hope. She must know. "Will you—will you be living in your place?" "No, Martha." He paused. "Joyce and I think it would be best to begin our life together some new place. I have sold the farm to a couple with six small children." Martha stared miserably ahead. She saw Chris leaning against the apple tree. She had forgotten him. He was standing there quietly picking the petals from a sprig of apple bloom. 'The loosened leaves floated aimlessly to the ground and lay in a pink carpet at his feet. She wondered vaguely how Chris, who had carried Linda on his shoulders, who had told her his funny rhymes, and taken her piggy back riding, how he could stand there calmly pulling apple blossoms apart. "I don't intend to take Linda away where you can never see her again,' Kent was saying. "I know that I can never repay you at all for what you have done. She could them." 295 come back each year for a visit." His eyes dropped to the blossom petals at Chris' feet. "Perhaps in the spring when the apples are in bloom." Martha looked at him half gratefully, but her throat ached, and she could feel tears stinging her eyes. "When are you going?" "In the morning," he said, while Martha fought desperately to keep the tears back. "I want to spend one last night." His voice trailed off with his gaze through the trees. O it was morning. Linda's hair had been brushed to shining ripples. Her gay little dress, starched and ironed to dainty crispness, rustled as she danced about excitedly around the big box that contained all her things. Then Peter was standing there shyly, pushing his queer package into Linda's hand. "It's my bird eggs, Linda," he said. "You can have And then before she had time to open the pitiful little package, or even tell him goodbye, he was gone. One moment Martha had the child in her arms, with the bright head against her breast and her own lips pressed to the shining curls, and the next moment she was gone. Martha didn't know how long she stood there staring at the empty trail down the currant bushes. But, suddenly, she was aware of the ring of Chris' hammer. She turned and stared at him. How could he be driving nails into Linda's playhouse! But he was! He was nailing the wooden chimney into its place, a square chimney marked off like 296 bricks, pointing mockingly into the sky. He must have read the horror in her face, for he laid the hammer calmly on the roof and stepped down from his wooden box. He came to her and took her two hands between his own. "Why are you building the playhouse, Chris? What for?" Chris pressed her hands until they hurt, hurt until she could have cried out. She could feel his eyes burning into her. "Because, Martha, darling, we can't give up. We must go on." "But, Chris, what is the use without Linda!" She was almost hysterical. "Martha, over across the orchard there will be children. You remember, Kent said—six small children. Their mother will need help. 'They can play in the playhouse. And— have you forgotten all the springs when the apples are in bloom, Linda will come. Her playhouse will be waiting for her. Don't you see? It must be finished, with the chimney and the table and the pink curRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954? Tains Martha felt the tension in Chris' body, felt him trying to help her. She reached out her hand unconsciously and it rested on a_ head. She looked slowly down into a pair of eyes red with crying. It was Peter, his tousled red hair filled with dry leaves and sticks from the bushes where he had wept in loneliness for his only playmate. Poor little Peter, living with a grandmother who was too blind to know that his overalls needed patching. 'Peter,' Martha said, "I must go to see your grandmother. Perhaps I can help her. And — and you must come over every day and help me." She looked up at Chris, and he gave her a wink. "Better still," he said, beckoning to Peter, "I need a man to help me build this house. Peter, would you like to hold this wobbly chimney still?" Martha looked out across the apple trees to the green roof. It will still be there, she thought, to remind me of all the things that are left. Si a ith Mary Ellen B. Workman Time to grieve? Oh, heart, put grief away! Seek out the beauties of today— The unsung song, the flag unfurled, The babe new-born unto the world, The child's smile, eyes that shine Lighted by his love sublime. Life's joys are here, and here shall stay To make you glad upon the way. Your love is pure, Christ's gifts complete; In God's own time you, too, shall sleep— And live again, no more to weep! Come, dear heart, time is not long! Put off your grief, make life your song. Grace T. Kirton LILAC GARDEN AND PIONEER HOME IN EPHRAIM, UTAH Deserted Ga rden Matia McClelland Burk I cannot bear to visit any more The desert homestead where I was a child, And see that dry and thorny weed-grown ruin, My Mother's lovely garden, now grown wild. Her neat, trimmed roses are an unkempt hedge; Gone is her dahlia rainbow in the fall; No trumpet vine calls hummingbirds in spring, No scarlet tulips blossom by the wall. Just one gnarled lilac, blooming by the gate; One tangled bed of orange poppies gleams; No, rather would I seek more perfect flowers In that dear garden of my childhood dreams. Page 297