[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 20 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Pickering]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 341 Standing, next to the back row, and first at left: Thelma Adams, President, Las Vegas Sixth Ward Relief Society; twelfth from the left, in the same row, Winnie Prince, President Henderson Second Ward Relief Society. Standing, sixth from left, in the back row, Ann L. Jones, President, Henderson First Ward Relief Society. The picture was taken at a recent annual convention and luncheon honoring the visiting teachers of the stake. During the convention an inspirational testimony meeting was held, with over two hundred in attendance. Photograph submitted by Madge P. Fowler PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT A "CHORAL FESTIVAL" December 4th and December 5th, 1953 Front row, seated: eighth from the left, LaVir Millard, director; tenth from the left, Macie Evans, organist; insert, at left, Helen Wright, pianist. Madge P. Fowler, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports that these Singing Mothers practiced once a week for a whole year before giving these concerts. "Four months before the concerts were to be given, Sister Wright moved away, but she drove one hundred and fifty miles once a week to practice with the group and played for them both nights the concert was given. The organ was used with four numbers We are very proud of this fine group as the concerts were some of the loveliest ever presented in the stake." —>- Sor Wood Uxolets Ethel Jacobson Purple is for regal things—for iris tall, For massed bougainvillea on a marble wall, For a king's raiment, a sleek pigeon's breast, - And peaks of lofty mountains where cloud crowns rest. Purple is for petals stitched among the leaves On a forest altar beneath the oak's wide eaves, For love-shadowed eyes, and for dusk's folded wings; The violet's robes are for blessed things. 342 Sacred Mustie for LADIES THREE-PART CHORUSES Beside Still Waters—Hamblen.20 Bless This House—Brahe -..- 16 If Christ Came Back—O'Hara.20 In His Steps—Wilson - -.---.20 I Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara I Will Exalt Thee, O Lord—Harris.15 O Lord Most Holy—Franck _ - 16 Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend—Madsen -.-.-----------.20 O Saviour of the World—Goss-Ray.15 Ss. Seek Ye the Lord—Roberts.15 DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY in South Main MAIN STREET WE PAY POSTAGE — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank j i alt Lake City 1, Utah! Please send the music indicated above. [] On Approval L} Charge C] Money Enclosed I { I \ I i { FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY aunes 45-47 SOUTH LA. SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 VIDA FOX CLAWSON Announces Three 1954 Conducted Tours HAWAII Sails from Los Angeles May 24 ALASKA Leaves Salt Lake City July 21 HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City August 6 The HISTORIC TRAIN includes: Places of Interest in Church History, the Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and many large eastern Cities. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 E. So. Temple—Telephone 4-2017 Salt Lake City, Utah Bright Hour Grace Sayre Down in my garden I see a rose Burst into radiance As the wind blows; When I do not see, Only the flower Breathes the fulfillment Of its bright hour. Yet all the fragrance Of honeyed bowers Is held where the wind passed Over the flowers. Down in my garden I watch the rose Perfect its beauty As the day grows, He. Olden Dass and the lew Camilla Alexander The world is getting funny Since folks have got so wise; They used to sell eggs by the dozen, Now they sell them by the size; They used to sell fruit by the peck, Now you buy it by the pound. If you have a dollar in your purse, You can't make it go around. I guess next they'll sell molasses By the yard or by the lick The way the world is going now— It's surely changing quick. And they're all so modernistic You can't do this or that One will say "Why that's illegal" Or, Don't do that or you'll get fat" Then, whatever people want today They always seem to get, And by the easy-payment plan They're never out of debt. In days gone by, when I was young, The husband's wages kept the house. Today the husband works the same— So does his loving spouse. But in those days, when husbands came From office or from store, With a nice clean gingham apron on, His wife would meet him at the door— "You're tired, Jim, but never mind, Your supper's at its best. Come in and put your slippers on And then sit down and rest." Now when husband comes From office or from store Worn and weary, tired out, Hungry and footsore, His wife will say, ""What ails you, Jim, You look so glum and blue? All tired out? Well, don't forget That I am tired, too. So go and shave and change your clothes And give your shoes a shine.

We're not eating supper home tonight— We're going out to dine." No wonder that next morning They're sick and almost dead; With all their work and worry They don't seem to get ahead. Oh, these modern days, And oh, these times of style!