[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 609 | General Feature | Notes to the Field— The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching | Aid Packet]
Relief Society Activities mY TP I HW Idaho Stake, Soda Springs Second Ward Honors Visiting Teachers, March 12, 1969 Front row, left to right: Janice Clark, Secretary-Treasurer, Soda Springs Second Ward Relief Society; Darlene Clegg, Homemaking Counselor; Iris Lott, Education Counselor; Norma Jo Vance, President; Lue! La W. Finlinson, member, General Board of Relief Society; Gale Sanders, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society; Ordis Williams, Education Counselor; Beverly Michaelson, Homemaking Counselor; Asa Hatch, High Council Priesthood Representative. Remaining sisters are officers and honored visiting teachers of the Soda Springs Second Ward Relief Society. Sister Sanders reports: ''The theme for the visiting teacher convention in the Soda Springs Second Ward was 'It's a feather in Your Hat to Be a Visiting Teacher.' This theme was carried out in the clever invitations delivered to each sister by the visiting teachers, and in the table decorations. This function was held in celebration of the birthday of Relief Society. 'Luncheon was served to eighty-five visitors and guests. Sister Zina Balls was honored for having served forty years as a visiting teacher. Sister Luella Finlinson of the General Board addressed the sisters and praised and encouraged respect for the calling of visiting teacher. "This was a lovely occasion and was enjoyed by al!

[Notes to the Field— The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet]

Who were in attendance."' 

609 August 1969

 Mt. Logan Stake (Utah), River Heights Ward Relief Society Honors Bishop at Birthday Celebration March 1969 Front row, left to right: Darlene W. Smart; Bishop Ross A. Smart, River Heights Ward. Back row, left to right: Orma Jean A. Johnson, Secretary-Treasurer; Evelyn H. Ellis, First Counselor; Maurine N. Miller, Second Counselor; Anna L. Merrill, President. Relda F. Jorgensen, President, Mt. Logan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The River Heights Ward of our stake honored their bishop and his wife at the Relief Society - Birthday Celebration. A counselor in the bishopric and a counselor in the Relief Society presidency paid tribute to the couple. A lovely quilt made by the Relief Society sisters was presented."' California Mission, Bishop Branch Holds 127th Anniversary of Relief Society Program March 17, 1969 First row, left to right: Viola Dearborn; Ruby Rose; Naomi Burnand;. Vera Critchfield; Ruth Mays. Back row, left to right: Shauna Richards, Homemaking Counselor, Bishop Branch Relief Society; Grace Mayhew, Secretary-Treasurer; Emily Heslington, Education Counselor; Mable E. Bruce, President; past president: Albertha Kollicker, Shirley Allred, Nelva Edell.. Marie B. Rasmussen, Supervisor, California Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Bishop Branch in our mission honored two past Relief Society presidents and five other faithful sisters in a program commemorating the 127th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. "A skit portraying the purpose of Relief Society was enjoyed by fifty-two sisters. Twenty-two of them were nonmembers. The spirit of fellowship was manifest. There were displays representing the various aspects of Relief Society. Lovely entertainment and refreshments added to the success of the program." Sunset Stake (Utah), Sunset First Ward Observes Birthday of Relief Society, March 27, 1969 Ronald Krogh sings ''Thank Heaven for Little Girls,'' to his three daughters Shelly, Shonna, and Stacy, in 'Portrait of Women." Nora B. Stephens, President, Sunset Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The First Ward of our stake presented a lovely program in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. Entitled 'Portrait of Women' it depicted in narration, music, tableau, and pictures the growth of a woman from a child to a grandmother, showing the role of the priesthood and the Church in her development. "Seventy people took part in this inspiring performance. Delicious refreshments were served to 120 sisters and their husbands who attended. "Each of the six wards in our stake presented outstanding birthday programs this year, and we are very pleased with all of them." 610 ne a a ea st August 1969 Yuma Stake, Brawley Ward (California) Presents "The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way,'' March 21, 1969 Left to right, Brawley Ward Relief Society officers and teachers: Lela Lunceford; Evelyn Mann, President; Alice Mikesell, Secretary-Treasurer; Vivian Willardson, First Counselor; Pauline Lunceford, Second Counselor. Louise S. Westover, President, Yuma Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The birthday of Relief Society was celebrated in the Brawley Ward in a most pleasant way. A lovely dinner of Chinese food was served under the direction of Lela Lunceford with suitable decorations by artist Mary Daker. Following the dinner, 'The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way' was presented under direction of Afton Ellis with singing directed by Verma Schoenfeld. The sisters and their husbands were most appreciative of this lovely evening. A collection of cookie recipes, tied with blue and gold ribbons, was presented to each sister."' Concord Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert, ''The Things We Love,'' March 1, 1969 Front row, sixth and seventh from left: Laura Muceus, organist for Concord Stake Singing Mothers; Lenore Wittwer, conductor. Third row, at left: Fern Pike, President, Concord Stake Relief Society. Sister Pike reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented a lovely concert with the theme ''The Things We Love."' Seventy-five Singing Mothers from ten wards participated. The program was narrated by Gloria Magleby and consisted of eight choral numbers, and vocal and instrumental solos and ensembles from each ward. "It was an inspiration for the ward groups to participate and many of them participated in sacrament meetings and fashion shows. The Singing Mothers also sang for stake quarterly conference." Minnesota Stake Relief Society Presents Fashion Show, "Springtime Internationale,"' March 29, 1969 Fay Dearden, Homemaking Counselor, Minnesota Stake Relief Society models gown in fashion show. Artbella M. Basinger, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our fashion show was one of the most successful events our stake has presented. The presence of Sister Joan Fisher, the reigning Mrs. America, added much to the program. She and her seven-year-old daughter took part in the program. "The program, through song and dance and decorations took the spectators to Hawaii, Paris, Vienna, Holland, Ireland, Mexico, and many other countries, with clothes being modeled at each stop. Fifty women and children modeled in the show. "Springtime festivals throughout the world were represented in display rooms opened before and after the show. Each ward had a room, and these were truly delightful with demonstrations of home skills, free food samples, and handicraft items and food for sale. The decorations were elaborate représentations of the various countries. "A large room of the building was set apart for missionary work, and more than 100 visitors made contact with the missionaries there. "This program received much publicity in the Twin Cities area, both on radio and in the newspapers. We were thrilled with the results." 612 ET August 1969 Blackfoot Stake (Idaho), Blackfoot First Ward Pays Tribute to Older Sisters at 127th Birthday of Relief Society Party March 1969 Left to right: Jane P. Miles; Abby K. Gooch; Josephine DeWitt; Pearl B. Wooten. La Rue F. Cox, President, Blackfoot Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Society sisters of the Blackfoot First Ward paid tribute to the sisters in the ward over eighty years of age, at the celebration of the birthday of Relief Society. 'Tribute was paid to each sister by one of her daughters who told of their family life, and about their mother's talents, experiences, life history, and other interesting points. Several of the daughters had to travel some distance in order to be present. This was indeed a lovely program." I Raa Gy MLR ANS OSTA TS EP SIERO Pn oe Las Vegas East Stake (Nevada) Las Vegas Fifth Ward Presents ''Profiles of Pioneer Women" March 1969 Seated in front, left to right: Luana Marshall as Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our prophet, and link between the old and new, having been born two months before the death of Brigham Young; Pauline Jolley as Ellis Shipp, pioneer doctor; Melba Hoffer as Ann Clark Martin, schoolteacher; Racheal Cutler, program narrator; Rosemary Hansen as Emma Hale Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Back row, left ta right: Lydia Victor as Maude Adams, leading actress, Olive Isom as Emma Lucy Gates, opera and concert artist; Le Ann Virchow as Eliza R. Snow, authoress; Ines Larkin as Susanna Goudin Cardon, pioneer of Utah's silkworm industry; Janice Zobrist as Emmeline B. Wells, suffragette and Relief Society leader. Loreta N. Gubler, President, Las Vegas East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Fifth Ward of our stake presented a lovely and well done presentation entitled 'Profiles of Pioneer Women,' in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. The program was written by Mabel Hansen, and was highly praised by the overflow audience from all wards in the Las Vegas area."' Box Elder Stake (Utah) Relief Society Celebrates Anniversary of the Organization of Relief Society March 27, 1969 Stake board members, front row, left to right: Velda Palmer, spiritual living class leader; Renie Littlewood, cultural refinement class leader; Chloe Sheffield, homemaking leader; Lola Anderson, Secretary-Treasurer; Eva Jeppsen, Education Counselor; Bernice Rasmussen, President; Faye Hansen, Homemaking Counselor; Ethel Poulter, chorister; Thelma Monson, visiting teacher message leader; Jennie Reeves, social relations class leader; Cleo Dixon, Magazine representative. Second row, left to right, beginning directly behind president: Pat Davies, organist; and Afton Rees, chorister for Brigham First Ward Singing Mothers who are pictured. Sister Rasmussen reports: ''At our stake leadership meeting in March we celebrated the birthday of Relief Society. The program consisted of a brief history of the organization; an original skit by Phyllis Warnick entitled 'The Tribute,' presented by the board members; lovely organ music; and three numbers by the Singing Mothers of the Brigham First Ward." al STEELS ~ aS GR LTP TRS NaN Sha EI PLE LIM RES OV DL A A Andes Mission Holds Annual Relief Society Conference March 1969 Pictured at left: Elder David Lefevre, a Lima (Peru) Zone Leader, serves sisters from Chimbote. Pictured at right: left to right: Andes Mission Relief Society officers: Esperanza Schwarz, President; Janice Litster, Supervisor; Shirley Ford, Secretary-Treasurer; Clara Vasquez, First Counselor. Sister Litster reports: ''A very lovely and successful conference was held for Relief Society sisters in our mission. Much useful information was given, however in order to insure continued success and follow-up of the material presented, a series of film strips accompanied by tape recording was prepared for distribution by the mission Relief Society presidency. Much work and time went into this project, as the pictures and tapes had to meet exacting specifications. 'A lovely display of handwork from various areas of the mission was enjoyed by all. Perhaps one of the nicest times of the conference was the delicious chicken dinner cooked by the sisters and served by the priesthood, including the missionaries.'' 616 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 98—Events Associated With the Second Coming of Christ Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 133.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman will resolve to prepare herself for the second coming of the Savior. INTRODUCTION The Church has come into existence to prepare a people for the second coming of Christ. The elect. Are gathered out of the world into the kingdom of I God to prepare themselves for that coming. (D&C 1:8-23; 45: 9; 133:1-10; 10:65; 29:1-8.) These facts were revealed to the Church early in its history. The first compilation of revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith was approved for printing at the conference held on November 1, 1831, over eighteen months after The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. When it was decided by the conference that the revelations should be published under the title a Book of Commandments, the Lord gave his Preface to that book. This revelation (D&C, Section 1) contains the Lord's reasons for giving revelations to the Prophet. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 1, pp. 222, 226, 234-36 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) The Lord closes the revelation with these verses concerning the last days: And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth: I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion: And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. (D&C 1: 34-36.)