[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 580 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannor\ | ]
will suggest ways of making existing programs more effective and will struggle to protect consumers' rights and to keep the public informed. She may even suggest new protective laws. Catherine C. Redadow and Marian Bass of the Buffalo, New York, police department, last April became the first women in the department's 103-year-old history to be appointed to the rank of desk lieutenants. Mrs. Rachel L. Bishop of Los Angeles, California, is the corporate president of Executive Secretaries, Incorporated.

—Rosemond Purviance 577 Can We Alford; Celestia J. Taylor Not to He I vem: s General Board of Relief Society Happy? M Happiness is an abstract quality difficult to define because it has sO many meanings; paradoxical in nature because it is present in the least expected places and absent where it appears most likely to be found; elusivé because, like the butterfly, it alights wherever it so inclines, but escapes the grasp of those who seek to capture it. It is 4 quality much to be desired, the easiest, yet the most difficult to attain. One of the expressions familiar to us and, therefore, often quoted: "Men are that they might have joy," contains both the secret and the key to the attainment of this most precious commodity. Just being here on this earth does not guarantee us happiness, but it offers us the possibility of attaining it. Its possession, as that of any other worthwhile goal, is dependent upon the laws which govern it, and wherever there is a law there is a responsibility. This is the secret. The key hes in the fulfillment of whatever that responsibility may be. How shall we define this responsibility? Certainly not by listing set rules and forms or by quoting high-sounding platitudes, which, though well-meaning, bear little or no relation to reality. Responsibility can only be defined in terms of the individual, for no one person's situation is the same as that of any other. There are certain positive things, however, that we can know or learn which are applicable under any and all conditions. We should know that forgetfulness of self in the service of others is conducive to serenity of spirit, to peace of mind, and to other qualities which are vital prerequisites to happiness. Finally, we should know that the pattern of life set by our Savior leads to happiness and that our acceptance of and adherence to that way of life is our only hope of attaining it. Ea) SERVICE When the cares of life Seem too hard for you to bear, Lend a helping hand. Your own load will become light As you stoop to help others.

[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannor\]

She advises business college graduates to get positions with large firms which have good supervisors to train inexperienced employees in up-to-the-minute, practical details of business offices. Sue Ann Davis, a Cree Indian home economics instructor at Intermountain School for Indian Students in Brigham City, Utah, was honored at the April annual meeting of the Utah Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters. She received a Meritorious High School Teaching Award for her excellent teaching, her assistance in student extracurricular affairs, and her own continuing educational achievements. Danish Princess Benedikte, who married German Prince Richard zu Sayn-Wittgenstein, became the mother of a son in April 1969. Gisella Belgeri, a brilliant Italian pianist, is a member of the internationally touring Orchestra Michelangelo de Firenze. When Baroque concertos for harpsichord are included, Miss Belgeri serves as soloist. 579 EDITORIAL / Leisure for Oneself w To some the words ''relaxation'"' and ''leisure'' may contain derogatory undertones, but the meanings in the dictionary give one pause for thought. ''Relaxation'' is stated as ''relief of bodily or mental _ effort.'' Leisure time is ''the condition of having one's time free from the demands of work or duty.'' What a precious commodity these are for a mother with many young children, or a woman burdened with exacting household duties, including that of constant nursing. One woman confided, ''l have been pressuring myself too much. I am beginning to realize that some of my waking moments need to be spent in doing something I want to do. I need to let down and take or make the time to do something to relax myself."' Advertisements of modern appliances sometimes tell of the additional time released to a busy homemaker. Too often the claim reminds the homemaker of the holes she used to make as a child at the seashore which instantly filled up with water and the holes disappeared. Two women were speaking of joys experienced in earlier days of going visiting. One explained, ''Where could you ever find the time today to go visiting, and if you did, what kind of a welcome would you have in the home where every minute seems to be scheduled fully? I'd feel guilty expecting a friend to sit down and take up her time."