Beaded Packages 920 Joy N. Hulme Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts It is as quick as pop! Pop! Pop! To make pretty packages with plain colored wrapping paper, plastic flowers, and pop beads. Besides being attractive, these wrappings are especially sturdy for mailing or using again. More often than not, the plastic flowers are too bulky to be used whole, so they are taken apart and the pieces used separately. This should be kept in mind when the flowers are being purchased. Also, it is desirable that these pieces will fit comparatively flat against the package. It is a good idea to have pop beads in a variety of colors so they may be used to accent or blend with the shades of the flowers. It is best, but not necessary, to cover and decorate the lid of the box separately from the bottom. Pretty gift boxes can be used without covering. The color of the BEADED PACKAGES spots on the lid where the pop beads will go. A narrative of Christmas through the ages—"The Perfect Gift"—was presented by El Paso Stake Relief Society for Christmas 1965. Organ music, a chorus, narration, and colorful slides illustrated the prophecies foretelling the birth of the Christ, his coming to the earth in mortality, his message, and his sacred mission. The appearance of the Christ to the ancient inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere was dramatically presented, with words from The Book of Mormon repeating the glory that came upon the Promised Land. Through song and background music, the restoration of the gospel was portrayed, and the observance of Christmas through the years, with the applied significance of "The Perfect Gift," was detailed in tableau and portrait arrangements. The picture at the top of the page represents the illumined journey of the Wise Men, and the lower picture illustrates the packaged gifts for children of the present generation. Lavinia B. Jackson is president of El Paso Stake Relief Society. The dramatization was written and directed by Barbara Johnson and Aleen Rowley. The Home llecaraied y ith a Christmas Welcome Homes in Salt Lake City, Utah Transparencies by J. M. Heslop A Christmas tree for children, decorated with popcorn chains, cookies, and Santa Claus. Vernon and Victoria Cooley in the Vernon Cooley home. 924 | ~~ < , " a * & 5. "Ae "hs "A" Ve <9" 4 >< 4 ae ay 7 ' aq ra A iiiigtmas =" come at the J. A. Hale home Roses, tassels, and crystal prisms make a radiant tree. Lydia Kalt waiting for Christmas in the Ronald N. Kalt home. Santa Claus, red tassels, and snowdrifts on a Christmas tree, Hotel Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah A brilliant and glowing Christmas tree above the city lights, Mervyn S. Bennion home. A tree adorned in red and gold, Z. C. M. I. Aisle of Christmas Trees, Salt Lake City, Utah Christmas comes to the Mervyn S. Bennion home— Michael, seated, admires the decorated stockings made by his mother. "