The Wise and Foolish Virgins' by William Blake (1775-1827), English (Metropolitan Museum, New York City, Rogers Fund, 1914) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6— "Virtue Nourishes the Soul'' (for ) Floyd E. Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University William Blake's watercolor of ""The Wise and Foolish Virgins" visually portrays in beautifully rhythmic lines and forms the message of Matthew 25:1-9. "Then shall the Kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise, anl five were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves." Virtue prepares one so that when the trump is sounded he is ready. As Thoreau said, '""Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open." William Blake, the great English visionary poet and artist, like most artists, made it possible for us to see his inner thoughts and convictions. These did not coincide with the thinking of other leaders of his time, and so he was not accepted and his fame has come in more reecnt years. All great art is an expression of the human spirit. It is a record of the artist's experience with life and his environment. Blake was a devout Christian and claims that his paintings and poetry are results of inspiration, almost as if they were gifts forced upon him. He said that the fine arts are essentially religious, and that they interpret the world and life in language of the soul. He implies that they are windows into the transcendental, invisible world, invisible to mortal sight, but presenting wider prospects, a vision of beauty in closest correspondence with the aspirations and efforts of mankind. Most of Blake's paintings and prints have a poetic, unreal quality in the rhythmic movement of the forms which he drew almost intuitively. He used no models for his figures, and invented his own devices which he used over and over as symbols.