Mary By Camille C. Nuffer She knew the bitter pain The agony of birth She suffered not in vain To bring her babe to earth She knew that joy so sweet— Her babe held to her breast — The shepherds at her feet, Her humble couch did bless And yet that pain of birth Was sweet oh! Sweet beside That she knew when He Her babe was crucified. Relief Society Conference By Julia A. F. Lund A CENTURY OF PROGRESS. Mary C. Kimball, Member of General Board NE hundred years ago Chicago consisted of a few huts, huddled about Fort Dearborn for protection from the Indians. Four years after it was incorporated as a village, it had only 4,000, today it has nearly 4,000,000. It is the second largest City in the United States and the fourth largest city in the world. It has thousands of acres of parks and supervised playgrounds; it has eighty-four miles of beautiful boulevards. It is one of the greatest railroad centers, grain markets, livestock and packing centers and has one of the most important ports. One hundred years ago trapping and fur trading was its only industry. Today it has 10,000 or more industries, with a wholesale value of $4,000,000,000. Born in the marshes, raised 12 to 14 feet by human skill and industry, it is now the commercial and cultural capitol of millions of people. It is noted as an art center, and for its prowess in medicine. It has great libraries and museums. Many go to the city to enjoy its grand opera and symphony orchestra. It is noted for its colleges and universities. Is it to be wondered at that in pride Chicago celebrates her Centennial? She was not turned aside because of the economic awryness of things, nor because progress seemed to be halted. She remembered that in 1893 she had invited the World to celebrate with her when unemployment was wide-spread, when there was a financial panic, and when she was still recovering from the fire of 1871, that had left 100,000 people homeless and destroyed $190,000,000 worth of property. On August 17, 1923, Mayor Dever appointed a committee to plan for Chicago's great Centennial. Mayor Thompson dropped the matter, but in 1927 he was urged to reconsider the question and a meeting of citizens was called. January 5, 1928, a Century of Progress was organized as an Illinois Corporation, having for its charter purpose, the holding of a World's Fair in Chicago in 1933. It was specified that no profits can accrue to members. If any funds are left, after the Exposition is closed, they will be distributed to organizations consonant with the purpose of the Century of Progress. On February 5, 1929, Congress authorized the President, on the assurance that $5,000,000 had been raised by the Corporations, to invite the Nations of the World to participate, and on January 10, 1930 the invitation was sent out. The theme of the Century of Progress is "ACHIEVEMENT AND ITS PROMISE." It is intended to bring assurance that "the steady march of progress has not, however, swerved aside, been seriously retarded, and that so called recessions are temporarv like the cloud that for a moment obscures the sun." As one visits the Exposition with whirling brain, palpitating heart and with bowed head, he exclaims, "What man has wrought." "Truly from darkness into night, the world rolls into light. It is daybreak everywhere." The buildings of the Exposition Jaz are unique. The architects had in mind that they were to be used for 150 days and not for many years, and they constructed them so that they could be easily torn down and the material salvaged. They also desired that the Exposition should serve as a laboratory for future builders. The buildings are largely windowless, but the interior lighting is so fine, that on the darkest day one can see the exhibits. One may here see all that man knows about lighting. The inverted, shaded, and color effects are varied and beautiful. The gas tube lighting in blue, green and yellow, when turned on at night, makes a fairyland beyond description. In the buildings also, one may experience the last word in ventilation and cooling effects. Either at the gate-way or within the grounds, stand more than $20,000,000 worth of permanent buildings. Among them are the Adler Planatarium, The Chicago Art Institute, the Field Museum of Natural History, and the Shedd Aquarium. The buildings house a most wonderful exhibit, showing what man has wrought during the last hundred years. It is like an encyclopedia come to life, telling the story of man's mastery over nature. 'New and unique methods of exhibition satisfy this generation's urge for animation and motion. Instead of mere rows of finished products or equipment, the exhibition presents a panorama showing how the products we use every day are made and assembled." In one building automobiles are made while people watch the process. Of all the buildings, the Hall of Science is the center of attraction. Two floors are devoted to the basic sciences: Mathematics, Astronomy, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Geology, and Medicine. The ground RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE floor is devoted to medicine and industrial applications of science. The stories of medicine, dentistry and pharmacology here depicted are most interesting. A giant transparent man that took eighteen months to make at-a cost of $10,000 is a constant source of interest. The United States, Italy, Austria, Holland and Canada all have extensive exhibits showing what has been accomplished in their countries during the last hundred years. The exhibits showing the work of Pasteur, Koch and Welcome are extensive, as is also the display of the American Medical Association. With interest and pride one sees what has been done to control fevers, tuberculosis, cancer, etc. In printing, movies, pictures, exhabits varied and startling, one sees the march of the Century and is led to exclaim, "Oh for a background that I might more fully understand the marvels displayed before me." The Hall of Social Science shows the adjustment of humanity to the changes brought about in living conditions through the medium of science and industry. There are exhibits devoted to child welfare, education, recreation, administration of criminal justice, and the contribution of religion. One sees the cave life of 50,000 years ago, the life of the Mayas, and is able to contrast the living conditions of the early American homes with those of the present day. The exhibit of the National Council of Women has a sixty foot Mural showing woman's march towards education, temperance, peace, and her entrance into business and professional fields. It also has books showing pictorially what women have been doing during the last hundred years. The developments in transportation RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are graphically shown. Sixty-four years ago, May 1, 1869, two gangs of laborers met in Ogden in a race from the East to the West and drove the golden spike that completed the span of the Continent. On display in the transportation building one may see the small engines, crude cars, the first horseless carriages, the stage coach that were considered so wonderful many years ago, and contrasted with these, are the latest and most powerful engines, cars palatial in their finishing and equipment, automobiles of the latest make and airplanes of the finest workmanship. The displays of radio and communication are most interesting. The Hall of Religion shows what the great religions of the world are today doing for humanity. Our own exhibit shows in painting, sculpture and art glass windows the story of this great people, of their ideals and purposes. 733 The beautiful homes of today attract daily crowds. Agriculture, dairying, livestock, mining, all have most interesting displays. Many States have buildings of their own. There is an enchanted isle for the children. The Midway has its various attractions. As one leaves the Exposition for the last time and walks down the beautiful avenue of flags, he realizes that soon the Century of Progress will be only a memory. It has been a source of great education and pleasure. It has made those who have visited it realize how wonderful has been the progress of the last hundred years. It has set men dreaming of what may yet be. It has started them on a quest to make the future even more glorious than the past. It has made them look up and marvel at what man has wrought. It has given them a hunger to do more and to understand better the story of man's achievements. DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE Mrs, Annie Wells Cannon, Member of General Board ON the 15th of this month, there will be held in Geneva, Switzerland, a Disarmament Conference. In February, 1932, a great Disarmament Conference was called and held, but adjourned without accomplishing its objective. There is no crime so great as war. Any of you who sent your sons or husbands to the Great War realize that. Thousands of people go to the tombs of the Unknown Soldiers in the great capitals of the world and do homage in memory to the thousands of men who were slaughtered in the World War. Thousands of women visit the hospitals all over the different nations, to see the men who were gassed, shell-shocked and crippled, disabled, tubercular—all know of the dreadful things that come through war. This Conference will be held in Geneva on October 15th. On the eve of that conference a committee of women representing the organized womanhood of the world, with all of the influence and all of the pressure they can bring to bear, will urge the delegates from the different nations to insist that the great powers take action that this Disarmament Conference will not adjourn without some immediate steps for the abolition of war. Lady Aberdeen, who is the Pres- 734 ident of the International Council of 'Women, has sent a message to the Councils connected with the International Council. Through her message, Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, President of the National Council of Women, with which our Relief Society is affiliated, has sent to Sister Robison a very. Striking message telling her that during these weeks before the Disarmament Conference there will be one thousand meetings held in Great Britain and in France, and she hopes there will be one thousand meetings held in the United States, for the purpose of joining the organized women of the world to bring influence to this Conference that some immediate steps be taken against war. At the request of the President, I therefore present at this conference the following resolution: Disarmament Resolution I move that we, the women of the National Woman's Relief Society join the organized womanhood of the world in the effort to bring about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE world peace and eliminate all wars by using our utmost influence to bear upon the delegates to the Disarmament Conference to be held this month at Geneva, Switzerland, and by urging upon these delegates the adoption of the plan submitted by the International Council Committee as follows: 1. Substantial reduction of existing armaments. 2. No re-armament. 3. Abolition of aggressive weapons within a definite period and with the immediate elimination of all bombing from the air, of the air weapon in general and of poison gas. 4, Limitation of expenditure to prevent rivalries in armaments. 5. Effective supervision of existing armaments and of arms manu facture and trade. 6. A permanent organization to carry out the above provisions and to carry on the work begun by the Disarmament Conference. This plan to be accepted by all the Great Powers of this Conference be cabled immediately to the Secretary of the Council Committee at Geneva. COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF WoMEN—JuLy, 1933 HE International Congress of Women which met in Chicago in July this year was one of the most noted gatherings of women which has ever been held in the United States. Thirty-three nations were represented by leading women from these nations; and as they sat in general assembly beneath the massed flags of their various countries it appeared to be what it really was—an International gathering. The International Congress was sponsored by the National Council of Women of the United Statés of which the Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association are not only members, but charter members. The Relief Society was honored by having its President preside at one of the meetings, it being one of eight of the thirty National organizations thus recognized. Several years ago the National "Council decided to take part in the Century of Progress Fair at Chicago. Its plan was two-fold: First, to put ona display at the World's Fair and publish a book to demonstrate the progress and development of women during the last 100 years—this fea- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ture to be in keeping with the general spirit of the Century of Progress; second, to sponsor an International. Congress of Women, to discuss present day problems and their solution, and to formulate a program to guide the future work of the women of the world. Through cooperation with the Postal Telegraph Company the Council was able to secure funds to carry out this great project. The Congress was held in the down-town district of Chicago and covered one full week. The speakers on the program were women of distinction—famed nationally and internationally. There were lawyers, doctors, social workers, economists, educators and philosophers. Foremost among the American speakers were Jane Addams of Hull House—noted humanitarian and advocate of peace, and considered by many to be the greatest woman in the world today; Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt—famous suffragist and peace advocate, who during her twenty years presidency of the International Suffrage Association helped to secure the franchise for women in twenty-six countries; Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor; Judge Florence Allen; Lena Madesin Phillips, President 'of the Council, who, with her keen intellect and ready wit won the hearts of everybody. Some of the foreign women speakers were: The Honorable Margaret Bondfield, the first English woman cabinet member, who served as Secretary of Labor; Dame Rachel Crowdy, England's War heroine, who saw three years active service in the World War, with the Voluntary Aid Detachment, and who is now connected with the League of Nations; Dr. Reddi, of India, a doctor by profession, and who presided over the all-India Women's Conference, and is a sympathizer with 735 Gandhi; a Baroness from Japan; a doctor and President of a College from China; an author from Turkey; a Romanian linguist; a French woman lawyer, etc. Incidentally I call attention to one of the interesting characteristics of the foreign women, which is their great linguistic ability. They all speak a number of languages. An Armenian woman told me that at her home recently at a dinner party of eight, twenty-four languages were represented. One interesting group was the woman writers and journalists, both foreign and American. Among the American group were: Emily Newell Blair, Associate Editor of Good Housekeeping; Miss Oglesby, writer of the Ladies' Home Journal; Mrs. Walker of the Pictorial Review; Mrs. Keyes of Good Housekeeping; Ann Steese Richardson, feature writer for the Woman's Home Companion; Marjory Schuler, Christian Science Monitor. These women all took active part in the discussions. The Congress consisted of general sessions and department session, or round table sessions. In the general sessions there were discussions on "The World As It Is," "The World as it Could Be,' 'Women in a Changing World," "Youth Plans for a Civilized World." In the department meetings the general theme was "Security and Opportunity"'—security through employment, through buying power and through the Government, security against destructive forces—war, Abies, disease, poverty, prejudice; opportunity through education and recreation. "The World As It Is?' In her opening address, Miss Phillips, President of the National Council of Women, said: "I am a militant. I hope that women have come to a time when they will not be so complacent about passing resolu- 736 tions and will put a little punch into work instead of words. I firmly believe that we must begin by electing women to office. If the women who attend this convention should go home and elect a woman to office in every one of their communities, to the school board, to the city council or to the legislature, then we would cease to be led around by the nose, politically speaking, and would begin to direct affairs ourselves. The next step is for everybody to learn something more than they now know about economic questions. Even our best people hardly know what to do. We must spread around this national wealth of which there is enough for everyone. The reluctance to do this is because each is afraid that he will lose the position he now has and emerge with a little less than his present wealth. This fear is what we must wipe out. "World friendship is not so well expressed by sending shiploads of food and clothing to less fortunate people in devastated areas as it would be through a world planning which would obviate the need of spasmodic generosities. A passionate desire for peace proves itself more clearly by curtailment of the manufacture and sale of arms than by the exchange of polite and superficial words. We cannot truly desire the welfare of all unless we are willing to participate in the changes necessary to secure that welfare. "We have mastered production; we have not mastered distribution. We have not learned how to make the machine the servant, rather than the master of man. We have not lifted the burden of fear under which parents must bring up their children. We have not lifted black despair from many an aged worker. We have not learned how to attain a settled currency or how to exchange goods among the nations. We have not yet learned how to keep peace between individualg or between nations. And yet these problems can and must be solved. To such endeavor we dedicate this Congress on 'Our Common Cause—Civilization'. 99 At an evening session economic security through Government was discussed under three headings; Under Communism, by a Russian woman; Under Fascism, by an Italian Professor; Under Democracy by Margaret Bondfield. While Russia RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and Italy were reported as being greatly improved by communism and fascism respectively, Miss Bondfield, speaking for democracy, created the greatest interest and sympathy. Under the subject "Women in a Changing World," it was reported from Latin Armenia that the women are advancing, but have not yet obtained suffrage. From Europe came the word that women have lost ground since the War, and are accomplishing very little today. In Turkey and Japan it was reported that the woman movement is growing rapidly. At the session devoted to "Youth," seventeen young women from as many colleges spoke. They stated that the older generation has handed down to youth a sorry world, which is in a terrible mess. They said in part that the youth of the world want no more war. However adults feel about militarism the youth of the country want no more wars. If called to the colors tomorrow they would refuse to go. Killing men is no one's patriotic duty. Youth says that all forms of militarism must go, drills and uniforms must go, R. O. T. C. Must go. It is as foolish for nations to fight each other as for individuals to fight duals. No war has ever settled problems; at the close of a war there are always more problems to solve than there were at the beginning. Slums must be abolished, rent must be lower or wages higher. There must be a new method of taxation which will include income tax. The tax system in vogue has been obsolete for thirty years, a new plan should spread more evenly with income taxes bearing much of the burden. 'Youth should go into politics. The older generation have led youth into a blind alley, and they will have to work themselves out on a new basis. Youth will demand RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE world peace, international under- ~ standing and security of life, work and reward of labor. Among the recommendations made were: That member organizations demand Congressional investigation of the private manufacture of arms and munitions in this country, including air-craft development, also traffic in arms with other 'countries; That they devise programs to _promote inter-racial tolerance and understanding; That they study ways and means of interesting their members in electing a high type of offcial; That they organize themselves into Vigilance Committees for the purpose of making the Recovery Act effective. 737 The first woman's movement was for sex-equality. This was featured at an International Congress held forty years ago at the World's Fair in Chicago. Women are still interested in this cause where it has not been attained. The second woman's movement decided upon at the great Congress of 1933, is against social systems. The slogan was: "We believe that every person, to whatever sex, race, nationality or creed he or she may belong, is entitled to security of life, work, the reward of labor, health and education; to protection against war and crime and to opportunity for self-expression." PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON THINK I shall never forget the beauty of that day in Nauvoo, so peaceful, so lovely! I have a letter here from a young woman who wrote to me later about it— "I think the spirit of that morning will never leave me. It was the uniting of the old and the new in a perfect harmony of blending." We have no members of our Church living in Nauvoo, but the people of the Reorganized Church were most gracious. We arose early, as we wanted to have a little rehearsal of the monument's unveiling, About six o'clock we were over on this beautiful spot, but the Fire Department was out before us. The thad taken the fire engine, put it into the Mississippi River, and were pumping water from the river to sprinkle the streets all around the monument. The next thing was the band with the Mayor walking at the head, going down to meet the delegation from the West. Dr. Frederick M. Smith, a grandson of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and now President of the Reorganized Church, came down 24 hours earlier than the ceremonies. He addressed us all as sisters. We could not help but contrast this time with that when our people were driven out, leaving their lovely homes and all behind them. We had already written to the Governor and asked him to be in attendance, but that morning a letter was handed to us saying that he was unavoidably detained. However, when the exercises began, in the shade of those lovely spreading trees, a gentleman came who introduced himself as a representative from the Governor of IIlinois. Again we were surprised, and we could not help but think of the difference between the Governor of nearly one hundred years ago and the Governor of the State of Illinois today. We have been asked, is it really a lovely monument? Well I am not an artist, but the spirit of it 738 is more beautiful than all the artistry that you can imagine. Hearts were made to rejoice, and there was a feeling of friendliness and happiness that I rarely have experienced. Brother George AIbert Smith gave a beautiful talk, and offered the dedicatory prayer. A great granddaughter of the Prophet and Emma Smith, Mrs. Bertha Hulmes, had come all the way from Detroit to officiate at the unveiling of the monument. Her little daughter, a great-greatgranddaughter of the Prophet and Emma Smith, and my granddaughter from Boston, unveiled the monument. We had a platform erected just a little distance from the monument, and when it~ was time to unveil the monument, Mrs. Hulmes left the platform, followed by the two girls, who walked in that formation until they came just opposite the monument, and then the girls stepped in front taking their places on each side of the monument. The veil which covered it was made of white material, with blue ribbons on one side and red on the other, a blue and red ribbon coming together in the front. Sisters Lyman, Child, Lund and Kimball stood back to receive this veil so that it would not fall to the ground. The ceremony was beautiful in its simplicity. We asked permission of the Reorganized Church who own the property, to fill in the basement and let us place the monument right over the spot where the store stood. This was granted, but later both Dr. Frederick M. Smith and Brother Bennion felt that it would be a splendid thing to keep that old basement as a landmark. So the Relief Society (you sisters) paid for having the old rock work RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the basement built up with cement, with a coping on the top, and steps leading down, so that it. Is made into a sunken garden, planted with grass and a number of fine young hardwood trees growing out of the basement, making it a very lovely spot. I have brought with me a gavel We do not use these in our Church, but: Brother Page, one of the Reorganized brethren in Nattvoo, gave this to me. The top of it is made from a piece of hardwood out of the Prophet Joseph's home. The handle comes from Brother Wright's home, the first house built in Nauvoo, making the gavel a very choice gift. There are so many reasons why we should look back into the past, and know what the people did for us. These fine men and women who not only proclaimed to the world that they knew that God had spoken from the Heavens, and restored the Gospel, but they had the courage to continue during the persecution and hardships, and they were true to their convictions in crossing the plains, and enduring all the privations without complaint or murmur. I often wonder what would have happened if they could have asked for Federal Relief as we do now, and if they had obtained it, and foregone trials, I wonder if they could have handed on to us that courage and strength which they have given us as an inheritance. There is an issue right now before us that I should like all the women of the Relief Society to consider. How would our parents and grandparents have met this issue? It is the issue of the Eighteenth Amendment. I am sure some of you have heard me speak of it before. I should like you all to think how can a family be RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE better off with the husband, sons and daughters drinking? How can a mother have more comforts in her home if the ten or one hundred dollars coming into the house goes for drink rather than shoes, bread and milk? Is it possible that a government, a county or state could be run more economically when men and women are using, not only their physical strength, but their intelligence, in defending liquor? They have told us it would reduce taxes. How can it reduce taxes to the laboring people if they have to pay out such a tremendous sum for liquor in order to get the taxes reduced? I would ' like to have you just consider it in your homes, and talk to your neighbors. Many of them have listened to the arguments of those men who are interested in having the working people pay the taxes instead of the great bond holders. This afternoon I should like to refer to our pioneers and their ideals, and what they did when it was not popular to be Latter-day Saints, and it did not make for favor to tell people that they were Latterday Saints. A few evenings ago a prominent business man in Salt Lake City called me up and said he was thinking of this, and wondered if I would like to have his thoughts as my contribution to you. I said I would like to have his name used, but he said, "It is not necessary, this is yours." I could not present it here today, however, without that much recognition. He seems to have been thinking just as I have been. Last Spring you heard me talk on Prohibition, and you may remember that I closed my talk with a quotation from Calvin Coolidge. May I today repeat this sentiment? "Laws 739 must be justified by something more than the will of the majority. They must rest on the eternal foundations of righteousness." I would like to have that thought carried through while I. Am reading this letter the gentleman sent to me. MINORITY OPINION "Advocates of the liqwor traffic defy us to stand out against majority opinion. They maintain that it is sheer madness and bold presumption on our part even to question the validity of the arguments, and resist the influences, to which people all about ug seem to have succumbed. How can they so easily ignore all the teachings and lessons of the past? What is it that has always proved to be the mainspring and genesis of human progress if not minority opinion? Can they cite a single case among all the achievements of man where the masses (the majority) have moved spontaneously and willingly in a body toward higher levels? When in all our history has truth been born into a receptive world? We look in vain for such an instance. Invariably a discovery that later was to revolutionize our mode of thought action has germinated in a single brain, nourished in a single soul, presented as a gift to a stubborn, reluctant world. Think of the few courageous souls that have dared fight so-called majority opinion, world opinion, if you please! "If Washington had followed the dominant opinion of his day there would have been no struggle for Independence. "Make peace with the mother country" was the cry of his fellows. Never at any time did he have the support of more than a fraction of the colonists. Yet the father of our country representing a militant, God-inspired minority opinion, gave birth to freedom and laid the foundation of the greatest government ever conceived by man. - "Respect majority opinion—they say? Did Columbus heed it when he went from court to court seeking aid to make his dreams come true? Did he allow himeelf to be swerved from his great purpose because he stood alone? How easily he could have changed the fate of mankind had he forsaken the truth in order to join the rabble. "Picture the courageous Galileo who 740 dared defy the opinions of the great, the mighty, and the powerful when he made known his discovery in the realm of science! "Luther! Did he reflect prevailing views when he nailed his theses to the church door? Would religious freedom have been born in his day if he had been cowed into silence by the threats of his opponents? Was he met with applause when he answered his enemies: 'Here I stand, I cannot do otherwise"? "Look at that great solemn Abraham Lincoln—the object of the bitterest abuses and slander because of his unshaken adherence to his objective: to maintain a united nation and to strike the shackles from the slave. We dare not contemplate what would be our fate today had the Great Emancipator gone over to majority opinion. "Let us go back to the day when the heavens were opened and the gospel of salvation was brought to the earth. Can we picture a more majestic figure than the Prophet Joseph Smith who was the constant object of attack from the moment he delivered his message to the world until his death? Listen to the words of the Lord as they came to our leader in Liberty jail urging him to stand by the truth even, as the Lord said, 'If all the elements combine to hedge up thy way; if the very jaws of Hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee.' If Joseph Smith had gone over to majority opinion simply because men mocked and reviled him; because they used all their satanic devices to destroy him— what shipwreck would have been made of the attempted introduction of the light of eternal salvation into a world groping in darkness? "Did the Pioneers under that indomitable leader give heed to unfriendly world opinion respecting the destiny of this people? Recall the drab, forbidding picture painted by that master of oratory, Daniel Webster, when he described these valleys of the mountains, which today are dotted by the peaceful homes of the Latter-day Saints, where the desert has been made to blossom as the rose. Was Brigham Young expressing majority opinion when he said, 'This is the place'? And still they say we must yield to majority opinion. If this be true, then why do we who represent a mere handful in numbers penetrate into the farthest corners of the earth to deliver the message of the Restoration to an unfriendly world counting its hundreds of millions? The right with one or two'. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "We challenge the defenders of majority opinion to name a single benefactor of the human race who has not been forced to stand alone to face a hostile world—a world that later built shrines and monuments to his name. "And then to think that we, the bearers of. Truth, the advocates of clean living, the defenders! Of virtue, should be beguiled into silence or lulled into inaction because for the moment we seem to represent only minority opinion! How dare we even pause or hesitate to raise our voices against the corroding influences of the world and at the same time lay claim to be followers of the Master, who Himself was a victim of public opinion, popular opinion, majority opinion of His day? Will not history repeat itself in this gigantic struggle in which we are engaged? Dare we for a moment concern ourselves with the hysterical, fleeting passion of the hour which has inflamed and beclouded the public mind? What should determine our course of action? Shall we permit the present or the future to pass judgment upon us? What we do today will cause generations yet unborn to bless our memory and hail us as benefactors of the race. Dare we betray them? Dare we violate such a sacred trust? Let us here and now dedicate ourselves to the truth, let majority opinion be what it may. For this we do know—that eventually we shall win the respect and the lasting gratitude of those who now challenge our right to defy them. The course we are to pursue is described in these beautiful lines: "'Be noble, and the nobleness that lies In other men's sleeping, but never dead Will rise in majesty to meet thine own.' "It is with unquestioned faith in our ultimate triumph that we enter the contest undaunted and unafraid, for: "'*He is a coward who fears to be in x99 But we are not cowards. "The history of this people is a record of heroism. It is that heroism that we must now display, in the firm conviction that the justice of our cause will eventually bring victory to our banners." 'The history of this people is a record of heroism. It is that heroism that we must now display in the firm conviction that the justice RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE of our cause will eventually bring victory to our banner. I pray our Heavenly Father that we will carry this banner the pioneers have handed to us in doing the 741 right thing whether we are in the majority, or whether we are one or two standing alone on the side of right. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The addresses of Dr. Bleekham and Mrs. Lund will be printed in a later number.