Elder John H. Taylor One of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies By Carl A. Badger JOHN H. TAYLOR, recently chosen one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, on June 28, 1875. His birth place was a three roomed typical pioneer structure that still stands just north of the Jackson School between First and Second North Streets on Seventh West Street. His father was Thomas Edward Taylor, a son of President John Taylor, and his wife, Elizabeth Keighen. John's mother, Emma Louise Harris, was the daughter of Thomas Harris and Elizabeth Morris Harris, both of them English by birth. John attended the Fourteenth Ward Sunday School and among his earliest teachers he recalls John W. Taylor and Mathias F. Cowley, afterwards Apostles, and the late Henry Elder who taught him the life of Christ. The first school was in the Fourteenth Ward Meeting House. Later he went to the Eighteenth Ward Seminary under Gideon M. Mumford. Among those who attended school at the same time was a girl who was very much provoked that the other girls would not play baseball with the boys and who enjoyed using a boy's baseball bat. Had John known that this girl would someday be his wife he would have paid more attention to her and perhaps the interest would have been mutual, though strange to say neither of the persons vitally concerned can now recall the other of those days. JOHN'S father had a hay, grain and produce business and John early became acquainted with the tasks of sorting potatoes and candling eggs. Truthfulness necessitates the admission that he was not enamored of these duties. As a boy John sang alto in the Tabernacle Choir and worshipped from afar soloists Bessie Dean Allison and Viola Pratt Gillett. He almost grew up in the theatre. His grandfather Taylor always had a box for the use of the family. John took his turn with the other grandchildren in kneeling down by the box rail and watching the performance. His grandfather Harris was door keeper so there was no keeping John away from the show house. He sold ice cream in the dizzy heights of the third circle, and then achieved a boyish ambition by acting the part of a girl in the juvenile opera "Billy Taylor." John also attended school for some time in the old Brigham Young School House which stood on the present site of the Bransford Apartments. Finally he reached the Fremont School on Second West and was graduated therefrom under the teachership of the wife of the present Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Utah, Mrs. D. N. Straup. For a short time he went to the old Salt Lake High School, across the street south from Temple Square. Charles Gillilan was principal. Here he played on the high school football team. Later he went to the L. D. S. College. In those days there was a strong disinclination on the part of Church School authorities to encourage what was regarded as the dangerous sport of football, and John who was very much interested in the game joined a team of local celebrity organized by the Y. M. C. A. On this team John T. Axton, who afterwards became Chaplain General of the United States Armies during the World War was center. John was a football hero. His friends remember a famous game played against the University of Utah on a muddy football field in which he made a long run. This was the only game which his mother ever witnessed. For easily understandable reasons he did not encourage her presence at football exhibitions. John's friends were very much interested in his football activities and they still remember the almost unrecognizable, mud-be-spattered champion who bore the applause of the crowd and the keen admiration of his friends with modesty and silence. John had by this time developed the characteristics which were to remain outstanding through life. He said nothing during the game. His way was to act, not to talk. He accepted the rulings of the umpire without protest and was regarded by everyone as a "good sport." He played the game with every ounce of energy in his powerful body. John graduated from the L. D. S. College, which was then situated on First North Street on the old Ellerbeck property in 1895. At the L. D. S. College there was formed a group of young men and women who took themselves very seriously! They used to meet once a week and discuss the problems of personal, community, national and international wellbeing. On one occasion each of them solemnly arose and declared his ideals and life's ambitions. JOHN was not yet twenty-one when on January 25, 1896, he left home for a mission to England. He was set apart for his mission and ordained a Seventy by President Heber J. Grant, then an Apostle. The mission lasted for two years. John served most of the time as clerk of the Nottingham Conference. President Anthon H. Lund was there presiding over the European Mission at this time. It was almost as hard for a returned missionary to find work in 1898 when John returned, as it is now, and he can recall how when he applied for a job in handling freight at the U. P. Freight Offices the man looked him over and told him that his clothes and his hands indicated that he was not cut out to "juggle" freight. John then served a short apprenticeship in dentistry with Dr. T. A. Clawson, now Bishop of the Eighteenth Ward. In 1898 he went to Chicago and enrolled in the Chicago College of Dental Surgery. FATE had a novel way of promoting publicity of the engagement between John and Ray. At the close of the first year he developed appendicitis and President Grant took John's mother and his daughter on a hurried trip to Chicago. This precipitated the announcement of the engagement of the young couple and the marriage took place September 20, 1899. Mrs. Taylor went with her husband to Chicago for his second year's training where they went through the mild hardships of cramped quarters, the top circle of the theatre on Saturday nights, and the strictly limited budget of expenditures that was the normal lot of the ambitious young married folk of those days. Upon his graduation Mr. and Mrs. Taylor went to live in Forest Dale Ward where they purchased a home in what was a favorite locality for those starting married life, but which in those days was not overly supplied with street cars. IN 1907 Brother Taylor was called to the Netherlands Mission where he remained for three years, laboring in the French speaking section of Belgium. He then returned and after a post graduate course at his old school in Chicago, aimed to give familiarity with the newest methods, he again commenced practice of his profession at home. Unfortunately, as he deeply felt on account of the strain of his work on his eyes he relinquished his profession, and shortly after was called by President Joseph F. Smith to act as director of athletics in the Y. M. M. I. A. Athletics had assumed a more insistent place in the development of youth and it was felt necessary to give them some direction. Brother Taylor supervised the intensive courses of instruction given to young men called from all over the Church for the purpose of developing leaders in athletics. Scouting came to the front about this time and Brother Taylor introduced it in the Mutual Improvement organization. Later the Mutual Improvement Association of Scouts affiliated with the National organization. In 1913 he was appointed the first Scout Commissioner in Utah when the local group was chartered by the National organization. Brother Taylor served for twelve years in connection with the Mutual Improvement Association as field man, necessitating constant travelling and absence from home. IN 1923 he was called to preside over the Northern States Mission headquarters at Chicago, Illinois. This position he held for a little over five years. In 1928 he was released and given charge of the Missionary Home at Salt Lake City, a position which he still holds. During his term of service more than 4,000 missionaries have passed through the home, most of them receiving a two weeks course in preliminary and intensive training for their service in the field. AN outstanding quality in the leadership of young men as exhibited by President Taylor has been his quiet and unassuming attitude towards those with whom he has worked. He has always believed in and has made operative in his various undertakings with young men what may be called the honor system. Men who come to the Mission Home, as was the case in the Mission over which President Taylor presided, are informed by him that he trusts them, that they are responsible to God and themselves, and that he relies upon them to do their full and complete duty. In his long experience with thousands of young men, President Taylor says that he finds that this method, the only one which he feels he can successfully use, has brought the desired response in heightened appreciation and faithful performances of duty. WHEN called upon publicly in the Tabernacle to speak after his appointment to the high position which he now holds, President Taylor referred feelingly to the supreme influences in his life represented by his mother and his wife. It is fitting that a few words be said of the splendid character and useful life of Emma Harris Taylor, the mother of President Taylor. At the good age of eighty-one years she still smiles at life and with serene confidence looks forward to the future. As a child of four years she crossed the plains in an ox team. Brother Taylor is the third of her family of fifteen children. The young people of today would open wide their eyes at a table normally spread three times a day for about twenty persons. Throughout her busy life she has exemplified high qualities of gentleness, serenity, self-control and love. The performance of duty was to her a joy. Life held within the confines of her home an abundant reward for high and unselfish service. With gentle words and loving deeds she filled the hours of a long, useful life and her reward follows her in the riches that are far above mere material things. In these days when we are attracted by so much that is shallow and unimportant in all of the activities of life it is restful and inspiring to remember the lives of those who have been earnest and joyous in the accomplishment of hard but worthwhile tasks. In addition to the performance of the labors of wife and mother, Rachel Grant Taylor has shared with her husband the duties and responsibilities of his missionary undertakings and other public callings. She, while in the Mission Field, presided over and worked with the Relief Society and experienced the satisfaction which comes from participation in the cultural and social activities of the mature womanhood of the Church. Since her return she has been the mother of the Missionary Home, and has thereby met thousands of young men and young women entering upon what to many of them is the greatest experience of their lives, the years spent in proclaiming the Gospel of Christ. She is a woman of strong character, having a high sense of duty, and shares with her husband a deep appreciation of the humorous situations of life. If an attempt were to be made to summarize the character of John H. Taylor it would be that he is dependable and faithful to the limit. He possesses strength and executive ability with unassuming and modest exterior, and depends for results upon calling forth from others their best service. He is considerate and has a deep and abiding sense of humor. He will always be found at the post of duty.