Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson INTER holds so much joy for. Children that parents ought to share it. Winter boasts the greatest holidays. Hallowe'en formally. Opens the season; Thanksgiving gives it a push;. Christmas is its peak; Valentine's Day and Washington's birthday help let down gradually from the intense excitement of the Yule season; and Easter formally opens the door to summer, Besides these holidays, think of the fun of winter; snowballing, skiing, skating, sledding. Instead of getting into the spirit of the season, mothers develop a dirt complex. They "see through a glass darkly" and think of the smoky, streaky windows, of the muddy floors, of messy galoshes and rubbers, and of clumsy overcoats. What mothers need to do is to cheer their souls by a very simple measure—by decorating the windows of their homes. Don't throw your hands up in horror at the idea. Put those hands to work getting cutouts, drawing pictures, finding blunt scissors for your young hopefuls, and then sit back to watch the fun. Magazines abound in timely pictures that can be copied, cut out, or easily traced. Save a copy of the pictures for use in succeeding years. Windows do especially try one's patience so sorely in winter. Whether the children go near them or not they have to be washed every week or two. The washing can seem so much more worthwhile and profitable by having fun with the windows during the time between washings. Children crave change. Unlike grownups who feel lost when anything is moved from its accustomed place, children like the new. Window trimming satisfies this urge without greatly disturbing timehonored arrangements for the older members of the family. This change will come about naturally and happily by using the holiday system of window decoration. Beginning with Hallowe'en, mothers should make the most of their windows. The cutouts for this holiday glued to the windows create an especially spooky atmosphere. Black cats, witches with their brooms, orange jack-o-lan- HAPPY MOTHERS terns show up beautifully against the clear light. The Thanksgiving window scene will very properly have Indians and their tepees, bleak black trees, the Pilgrim fathers with their muskets, mothers and children with their prayer and hymn books—and the great American turkey! Christmas decorations are legion. In one window, Santa Claus rides his sleigh with his "eight tiny reindeer." Beneath him the houses with their lights ablaze eagerly await "the prancing and pawing of each little hoof." In another window, the Christmas tree twinkles as St. Nicholas _ places the presents (sleds, dolls, trains—all cut outs or drawings) around it. In still another one, the family is seen coming into the room on Christmas morning. HE main attraction for Christmas, however, should emphasize the Christ story. Every home can easily accomplish this object by creating a scene from the Christ's birth. A small wooden box can be covered on the outside with tissue or Christmas paper. The stable can be a strawberry box with a smaller box for the manger. Over the top of the strawberry box, wisps of hay or straw can be placed to give the effect of a thatched roof. The manger also should be filled with hay. A few large rocks placed in the rear of the box gives the illusion of hills. Sprigs of dill create the impression of palms. Flat pebbles make the roadway, and straw scattered around resembles the stubble. Tiny animals of wood will help the scene. Good pictures of these can be drawn, cut out, colored, and by leaving a base one-half inch wide can be glued in place to the 729 base of the larger box. A picture of the three wise men and their camels can be placed at one side of the box, or shepherds can be grouped around the stable. Many stores sell small dolls at the rate of five for five cents. The youngsters can sfitch clothes to have these dolls represent Mother Mary, the Holy Infant, and Joseph. The children derive no end of joy from helping create this little stage. They can cut tiny gold stars to hang from the top of the box. Three Christmas tree icicles may represent the rays of the one wondrous star which, of course, must be larger than the rest. The true Christmas message can be portrayed in this way to teach a better lesson of humility than probably could be taught through many speeches about it. Often winter calls forth the thought of crowded noisiness. By careful planning and foresight, mother can make her winters a real source of happiness. If mother will take a bit of care in starting the children on an idea for decoration, she will find that they will move forward rapidly towards its accomplishment. They will work toward an end carefully and quietly. They will be developed individually. Most important of all, they will become conscious of how much better are the results that can be accomplished from unified group activity. If the youth of our land can learn the value of cooperation in such a small activity as home decoration, there will be less danger, when that youth grows to manhood, of unwillingness to work together on vital matters. MOTHER will be surprised at what even the youngest can 730 do with his cutting and pasting. She will discover that the children can do most of the work themselves if she will give occasional suggestions and a helping hand over some of the rough spots. When it comes to paste, nearly all children have an inordinate fondness for eating it as well as for using it. The following recipe answers both requirements satisfactorily. Paste 34 c, boiling water 2 tb. Minute tapioca 2 tb. Sugar A pinch of salt Place all ingredients in the double boiler and cook until very thick. Cool and use. The youngsters can use cheap paint brushes or flat sticks as paste spreaders. Mother's reading may be the inspiration for window decoration and may easily direct the children to a lesson activity of the greatest importance. After she has read the Joseph story, for instance, she can suggest that they make the picture of the brothers with their sheep, their cattle, and their tents. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She may have a scene from Pharaoh's court. It may be that the children would like particularly well to draw the Ishmaelitish caravan of camels on its way to Egypt. An important part of the activity is the lesson of cleaning up after the fun is all over. Children will need a great deal of encouragement to gather the scraps. If they have brooms and dust pans of their very own, the collecting of the waste becomes sport. When there have been minor accidents such as spilling of paints or paste on the floor, their own mops are so much nicer for cleaning up the mess, Mothers must make the most of their opportunity to create happy purposeful children during. The winter months. Probably when mothers start the winter it will be a real effort to find the necessary patience to drop their work on the instant and run to cut an intricate pattern from a magazine. As the work progresses these same mothers will be so eager for more window space that, in spite of the old adage, and their aversion to smoky windows, they will probably be wishing for glass houses!