We have sowed the wind, we fear we will reap the whirlwind, Mobilization for Human Needs NEWTON D. BAKER, Chairman, says, "The National Mobilization for Human Needs is a union of the thirty-four leading national welfare organizations to reinforce all community efforts to secure adequate financial support of voluntary local welfare services for 1934. The Moblization raises no funds but employs all possible channels of national influence and publicity to back up local requests for voluntary support of the indispensable social services of each community." Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, the National Chairman, and her committee realize that unless the work of the "private" welfare agencies, supported entirely or partially by individual givers, is continued, the standards of living built up in America will be lowered, delinquency and crime will increase, institutions (hospitals, orphanages, homes and settlements) will be crippled or closed, and past efforts in establishing these plants and equipment will be lost and can only be regained at greater cost later. "Even a rapid improvement in business will not immediately put back on their feet families who have suffered three years of destitution. The social wounds inflicted by unemployment will take along time to heal. The Women's Crusade is not designed to serve any one agency or group of agencies but to stimulate the interest in and understanding of the functions of all welfare organizations and the imperative need for continuing these organizations." Wy OMENS leadership is indispensable in the present national task for recovery, just as it has been in all other crises in our national history. From October 15th to November 12th in nearly 400 American communities thousands of women styled "am bassadors of understanding" waged an educational campaign. They were an informing, inspiring and coordinating group. They were inviting the millions who 748 have work and the means of livelihood to become partners of the poor in every community of the land. The objectives of this women's crusade are to make the women whom they visit and talk to cultivate a sense of partnership in the community's efforts to meet the general welfare responsibilities, to place upon the women a definite part of the responsibility, to awaken all citizens to the seriousness of the social emergency and the vital necessity of continuing the success of all social welfare agencies. To unearth criticism based upon lack of understanding and let the criticism develop into support by presenting the real facts, To spread an understanding of the multiplicity of social work, and the community's dependence upon the whole wellrounded social work program. Women have great power in shaping public opinion and their financial power is well known, for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they control approximately 40% of the wealth in the United States and in most families of large incomes, they decide their own expenditures or are consulted in regard-to giftsto charity. In homes of medium or small incomes, women generally determine whether or not money shall be given to welfare work. The National Recovery Act must be supplemented by intelligent social work if rehabilitation is to be accomplished successfully. These "ambassadors" have stressed the importance of maintaining all the agencies now engaged in welfare work and have shown the limitations necessarily put on the use of R. F. C. Funds, and the many vital needs for which these funds cannot be used. The people of the country have given to charity very freely during the last few years, and they may be called upon this winter to give as never before.