Abraham Lincoln Elder Bryant S. Hinckley HOUSE IN WHICH LINCOLN was MARRIED Abraham Lincoln was born February 12, 1809, near Hodgenville, Kentucky. His mother, Nancy Hanks Lincoln, died when he was nine years of age. In 1830, he moved to Illinois; 1832, was captain of a volunteer company of the Black Hawk Indian War; 1834, elected a member of the House of Representatives of Illinois; 1837, admitted to the bar; 1846, elected to the National House of Representatives; 1858, debated with Stephen A. Douglas; 1860, elected President of the United States; reelected in 1864; April 12, 1861, Fort Sumpter was fired upon; April 9, 1865, Lee surrendered; and on April 14, Lincoln was shot by an assassin in Ford's Theatre in Washington, and died at seven o'clock the following morning. He married Mary Todd in 1842, and became the father of three sons. He lived fifty-six years, two months, and two days—freed the slaves and saved the nation. This is the simple story of his life. Two generations have gone since all that was mortal of the Great Emancipator was laid to rest in his tomb in Springfield, Illinois. During the intervening years a vast literature has grown up about his life, his character, his renown." More has been written and said about him than about any other American. Against this background one should be able, without partiality and with understanding, to equate his value as a leader and measure his contribution to his Country and to mankind. He was a lawyer by profession and is declared to have been a "'legal genius of the first rank." That he was a great constitutional lawyer is the deliberate judgment of one of the ablest critics in that profession. To use his words: "It is certain that when the muse of legal history calls the roll of eminent lawyers of our country's story, and records the greatest of these worthies, she will write Hamilton, with his acute, constructive intellect, as the brilliant, consummate flower of our earliest 1 Zane, Lincoln The Constitutional Lawyer, p. 5. Page 6/7 constitutional history, will write Marshall and Webster as the ripe fruits of the noonday of our growing love and reverence for the Nation, then dipping her pen in the sunlight, will write with those deathless names, Abraham Lincoln, the patriot, statesman, martyr and lawyer, who saved this Union to live on for the happiness of mankind.' As a statesman he takes rank among the noblest and greatest that ever lived. It was in this capacity that he made his supreme contribution—it was here that he revealed the soundness and clearness of his thinking, showed his wisdom and his magnanimity. He was the ablest man that ever went to the White House, the best fitted for his job, which was one of the most difficult in our national history. "To this task he brought the greatest of all the things that man has gathered in his progress from brutish savagery. That possession is culture, which an Apostle of culture, Matthew Arnold, has defined as requiring a sense for intellectual things, a sense for conduct and an aesthetic sense. Accidental matters, clothes, conventional manners, education, have little to do with culture, and Aristotle has told us that to dwell too much on these accidents is a sign of aphuia, by which he means a naturally inferior mentality. Culture requires a kind of mind that is open to matters of knowledge, a sense for the possessions of the intellect, and it is in its best form a power of dwelling and reflecting upon intellectual things and of aspiring to better things, until a man is enabled to comprehend this great and growing, progressive 7 ibid. P. 47. * ibid. P. 156 life of humanity that has made us what we are. "Would any man say that the younger Pitt, or Perceval, or Aberdeen, or Lord John Russell, or Lord Palmerston had, when each became Prime Minister, anything like the equipment of Lincoln when he became President?'"* LINCOLN was a prose poet with the rarest taste for beauty in words. One of the world's treasures of great literature was his letter written, without revision, to Mrs. Bixby, Nov. 21, 1864: Dear Madam: I have been shown in the files of the War Department a statement of the Adjutant-General of Massachusetts that you are the mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of battle. I feel how weak and fruitless must be any words of mine which should attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. But I cannot refrain from tendering to you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the Republic they died to save. I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom. Those were anxious days, the air was full of portent, the nation waited with bated breath for Lincoln's first inaugural address. The soulful and matchless words of the closing paragraph of that address will shine forever. It ran: "In your hands, my dissatisfied countrymen, and not in mine, are the momentous issues of the Civil War. The government will not assail you. You have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors.