A DAILY SACRIFICE.
	It is written that to obey is better than
sacrifice, which is all very true where properly
applied; but in the experience of life, we learn
there is a daily sacrifice to be made in order to
accomplish the great life-labor all came here
to perform, that we might reconcile the will of
fellow men to the noble reclaiming designs of
the Creator.
	It is plain to the understanding of a reflect-
ing mind that through ignorance, superstition
and false education,many of the human family
sustain a great loss, and unless we search dil-
igently and learn the cause that produces the
effect, the evil cannot be removed, neither can
man be placed on a more sure basis of success,
for ignorance is the progenitor of failure.
And I believe there is no better way to obtain
this knowledge than to study the laws of na-
ture, which are the laws of God, and acquaint
ourselves with the main principles that will
redound to the elevation and happiness of
present and future generations. I do not con-
demn all the traditions and teachings extant


in the world, for  there  are  many  noble  and
saving principles, that it would be well for the
children of  Zion  to  profit  by;  for  all  good
cometh of God.  And  we should  imitate  the
wise busy bee, that culls sweet from every flow-
er, and as she fills her  house with  richness, so
we should store our minds with understanding,
for knowledge is power;  and  it  requires  great
will, power  and force of  character, to  control
and subdue our fallen  nature and  obtain self-
government, which is the key to proper family
government.
	It is contrary to the laws  of  nature for par-
ents to bring their children under  orderly  and
proper control, when they  themselves  will not
submit to the order and will  of God,  and  the
dictation of their own better judgement.
	Order cannot be brought  out of chaos, or it
is hard to do so.  Often is the remark made by
persons,  when  sorrow  or  trouble  overtakes
them,  I have  done the best I  know how un-
der the circumstances. True, yet often-times in
searching  further  we  find a want  of proper
tuition, or a neglect to  inform the mid of the
most important  principles pertaining  to our
own organism, or what the course to pursue to
enhance life which must be  learned  and lived
up to, in our  every  day  lives,  before  we  can
accomplish  much  towards  reclaiming  the
human family  from their  degenerate  and fal-
len condition.  In this  there is a sacrifice to be
made, for fallen nature  revolts  at  the  idea  of
being put as an offering, on the altar, of which
Christ is the chief  corner  stone, crowned with
the  Golden Rule, that  is  "to do unto  others
as you would that  they  should do unto you,"
for the carnal mind is at enmity with God. See
Romans viii, 7.  How necessary  then that the
children of Zion, be  taught,  or obtain,  a pro-
per understanding of the  nature  and  the  de-
signs of God in their existence on the earth, and
that they  were not  granted  a  probationary
state to waste their time with the follies and fash-
ions of the world to the exclusion of a  higher
and more noble aim in life, but leading pure and
virtuous  lives, that  they  may lawfully  fulfill
the first great  command  of God, for it  is  this
blending  together  of  the  elements  of  nature
and the spirit, that constitutes the noblest work
of God, the soul of  Man, each being  endowed
with an  immaculate  germ  pertaining  to  the
Deity, having the privilege of acting upon their
own agency, whether  they  cultivate  it or not.
Parents should  understand  and  teach their
children true  principles, for many  sin  ignor-
antly, not realizing their  true  relationship to
each other and to God!
	It is written  that  great  things  will  be  ex-
pected at the hands of  the fathers.  See revel-
ation in the Book of Doctrine  and  Covenants.
This revelation was  given  in  the early rise of
the Church, and if so much  was to be required
at the hands of parents who were gathered out
of  the  different  denominations  of  that  day,
traditionated as they must have been, in  the
prejudices of the  world,  how much more will
be required at the hands of those who have had
the privilege of  obtaining  greater  knowledge
and a better  understanding  of the  principles
and designs  of  God, just entering in the  great
drama of life, clothed  with  the Holy  Priest-
hood of God, having been born natural heirs to
the same, untramelled with the dogmas of men.
But I fear that  there  are  some  that  make  a
stumbling  block  of  offence of those  who  not-
withstanding their  preconceived ideas, have as-
sisted to lay the foundation, in this the last
dispensation, of the  principles of regeneration,
which leads to life  everlasting  and a fulness of
glory, and  are allowing themselves to run into
skepticism, and the unbelief of the generality of
mankind, claiming  the  weakness  of  others
as  as  excuse  for thier own  neglect  and follies.
	This should  not  be,  for the  Lord  will not
justify any one  in  this course,  except the  ac-
cuser can  and will do better than the accused.
See revelation Book of Doctrine and Covenants.
Our first parents  had the  fortitude to sacrifice
their own happified condition, to open the door
to knowledge, that future posterity might have
the opportunity to gain eternal lives in a higher
and more exalted  state of  existence,  by their
adhering to  faith  and  good  works.  And
evil of a necessity came into the world, that all
might act upon their own agency to choose good
or evil and through love of  gain  and honor of
men,yielded themselves to the enticings of that
wicked  one,  choosing  darkness  rather  than
light, until they have become what they are at
the present day, full of selfishness, doubt and in-
sincerity-until the whole  world  is  burthened
with sins of the most revolting character which are
being winked  at  by many  standing as  it
were at the  head  of  our  own  so-called  great
and enlightened Republic- while virtue hides
her face  in shame  and  justice stands aghast
shorn of his power to execute equity and judg-
ment.  Truly when the wicked rule the people
mourn.  It is evident that such  a state  of evil
cannot always  exist, there must be  a reform,
and this change cannot be brought about with-
out sacrificing false theories and traditions, for
pure  and wholesome  principles,  and  educat-
ing the mind by example as well as precept, to
a higher standard  of virtue  than  is generally
required to form  a  respectable  society.  This
being the case, how necessary for the  youth  of
our  people  to  become  well  skilled  in  both
mental  and  physical  accomplishments  and
vigilant  in  regard  to  duties, both  sons  and
daughters, that they may  not only make  good
citizens, but better  fathers  and  mothers, than
it were possible for  their  parents  to be, underthe circumstances.  I  believe there is  a  far
greater and more responsible meaning in the ap-
pellations husband and father, wife and mother,
than  is generally understood, that  unless both
possess the requisite qualifications to honorably
and truly fill so noble  and  responsible a posi-
tion,  it is a mockery,  a farce  in  the  sight  of
God.  It is written in 2nd. Corinthians, be ye
not unequally yoked together with unbelievers,
for what fellowship hath righteousness with un-
righteousness,  and what connection hath  light
with  darkness.  This  is  good  counsel, and a
very true explanation, and we should look well
to our ways, lest we be  numbered with the un-
believers.  I fear a great  many that profess to
be  Latter-day Saints  will  be counted  among
that  number,  if we  are  to  be  judged by  our
works.  It may be asked, how are we to choose
thus wisely? I know of no  better  way than  to
ask God to enlighten your  understanding, and
study the grand "Book of Nature" and become
familiar with her laws, then govern yourselves
accordingly, complying  with the principles of
everlasting laws, by sacrificing in our every day
lives our degenerate  propensities  and  desires,
and all else that is detrimental to the advance-
ment of future posterity;  then let  us  not  stand
in our own light, by yielding to the fickle fancies
of a moment, regardless of a more noble object in
life.  Learn  each  other's true character,princi-
ples, tastes  and  habits, and  see whether they
compare favorably  with your own true nature,
and the laws of God.  Be firm and true to your
better  judgment, and  listen  to  the  guardian
voice of nature, who is  ever  striving to  instil
in  the hearts  of her  children, her immutable
laws-laws that  cannot  be  broken  with im-
punity  without  condign punishment  to  the
transgressor, and that is not all, the evil is sure
to be transmitted in a greater degree, to future
posterity. Much depends on parents, in regard
to  coming  society,  of  which  our  children
are the germ, that  is  to be  instructed by  ex-
ample as well as precept, how to  wisely  and
judiciously implant life-giving and life-preserv-
ing laws both for  body and mind, that  it may
never be erased from the tablets of their hearts.
In perusing  the inexhaustible pages of "Nature's
Book,"  I find  written there, this  divine  asser-
tion,  that  "What  manner of see ye sow, that
shall ye also  reap  again.  Ye  cannot gather
grapes of thorns, or figs  of thistles,"  justly and
wisely showing it does  not all  depend on  the
soil as regards  the kind and quntity of  fruit
produced, and I earnestly  believe if one fourth
of the time and means expended to improve the
animal creation were as earnestly and zealously
disbursed  with  the  same  view,  to  morally
educate our young  people (and old as well) and
raise them to a higher state of humanity, there
would be less cause for sorrow and regret and it
would be taking a step in  the  right direction,
preparing to the ushering in of the Great Day of
the Lord.
	Then let us be alive  to our  duties  and  wil-
ling to offer our daily  sacrifice that we may be
accounted wise stewards in the House of God.
						N.A.C.


