HOME AFFAIRS.

 THE Relief Society blanks  are now ready and
for sale at the office of the Deseret News.  Tune
books  which  have been  prepared to accompany
the Children's Primary Hymn Books are for sale
at  this  office.
 THE Relief Society of  the  Fourteenth  Ward,
under  the  efficient  management of a  commit-
tee of ladies,  Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Chairman
Committee, gave  a  social  party  on  Thursday
evening, Jan. 13, which was  in  every respect a
complete success.
	TRIP UP  THE  RIO VIRGIN.-On New Year's
Day Sisters Eliza  and  Zina  and  Mrs. Minerva
Snow started  on a missionary  trip  up  the  Rio
Virgin.  They  visited  Harrisburg,  Leeds,  To-
querville, Virgin  City. Duncan's  Retreat, Graf-
ton,  Rockville  and  Shonesburg.  In  each  of
these  they organized a Primary  Association; in
Rockville  assisted the  Bishop  in  re-organizing
the R.S., and  in  Toquerville  the R.S. and Y.
L. M. I. A.  In all, the sisters held fifteen meet-
ing.  "The Spirit  of  the  Lord was manifest, and
on several occasions copiously poured out."
	We gratefully acknowledge  the  kind  invita-
tion  extended us to attend a social  party given
in  the  15th  Ward Assembly Rooms  on Thurs-
day  evening, Dec. 30, 1880, and  sincerely  regret
we  were  prevented  from  attending.  We  also
see  upon  our  table  an  invitation to attend the
anniversary  gathering  of the  Y. L. M. I. A. of 
the  17th  Ward, which will  be held  at the resi-
dence  of  Mrs. Maria Y.  Dougall, on  Tuesday,
the 18th inst., and  hope to be there to enjoy the
good spirit and  feeling  that universally prevails
among the young ladies in their associations.
 WE welcome  gladly  among  our  exchanges
"The Bear Lake  Democrat"  published in Paris
Idaho, which comes fresh with northern news and
also contains many sharp and  spicy articles, cal-
culated to amuse  and edify the  eager and  fas-
tidious public.  Under  the  able  management of
the humorous J.C.R., and his eminent co-labor-
er J.H.H., we  think the  people of Bear Lake
County will  have a fair and  honorable news-
paper  representation,  of  which  in  times  past
they must have  felt the need.  We are glad to
see enterprises of this kind  started and  trust it
will prove a successful undertaking to all parties
concerned.
 THE Home Dramatic  Club  have  won  fresh
laurels by the performance of the two last  plays
"Pique" and  the  "Banker's  Daughter."  Both
these plays  were  good  and  as well  rendered as
could possibly be expected  of amatuers. Indeed
many encomiums of praise have  been  bestowed
upon some of the actors by  critics who have had
the  best opportunites of seeing the finest actors,
upon the stage in the  very  best theatres.  One
thing is certain the talent is  here and it may be
developed, if the people will patronize home pro-
duction, and not run  wild after  something from
abroad, paying out money, to be carried away in-
stead of  placing it  in the hands  of the  young,
rising artists here, and  thereby  building up the
profession at home.
 THE Quarterly  Conference  of  this  Stake  of
Zion  was  held in the Salt  Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday and  Sunday, Jan. 8th  and  9th.  The
meeting on Saturday morning was occupied with
the reports and transaction  of  business pertain-
ing  to the Stake affairs.  In the afternoon, after
some  special business matters had been disposed
of,  Pres. John  Taylor  addressed  the  people  on
the  subject  of  tithing, explaining  clearly  what
the Lord had  said by revelation to  the Prophet
Joseph, and  the  system  adopted  by  President
Brigham Young.
	Sunday the  meetings  were  crowded  to  over-
flowing, many could  not  obtain  standing room
in the Hall, and were compelled to return home.
Pres. John  Taylor  and  Pres. A.M. Cannon oc-
cupied the  morning session.  In  the  afternoon
Apostle  Wilford  Woodruff,  Pres.  Joseph  F.
Smith and Apostle John Henry Smith addressed
the congregation.  Many excellent  things were
spoken during  the  Conference, and the Spirit of
God seemed  to  prevail in  power  during all the
services.  The music was grand, and all seemed
inspired to perservere in the  work  of God's king-
dom.  The  closing  anthem by the choir, "Glory
to  God," was  sublimely rendered.  Conference
adjourned sine die.
 A PETITION has  been  presented to the Mayor
and City  Council  of  this  city, asking  that the
traffic in liquor be restrained.  The petition sets
forth  some  plain  facts, and suggests, "that the
City Charter authorizes the City Council  by or-
dinance  to  regulate  the  sale  of intoxicating
liquors, and  to  regulate,  restrain,  suppress  or
prohibit  billiards, pin  alleys  and  other  games,
etc.,  etc."  The petitition was signed  by John
Sharp and  7,797 others, and urges the honorable
body to take from the table the petition presented
in  1876, signed by more than  six  thousand resi-
dents of this city, for the suppression of the sale
of intoxicating  liquors.  That  some  immediate
and effective steps should be taken in this direc-
tion must be apparent to every man and woman
who take notes of  what  is passing  before their
very eyes.  That  this suggestion  to  the  Mayor
and Council is none  too soon  is also  apparent.
In Utah  County  there are some rigid measures
enforced  against violators of  liquor  ordinances.
In Spanish Fork one seller was fined sixty dollars
and  costs.  In  Springville  another  was  fined
ninety-nine dollars and costs for similar offences.


REST.

	DIED, in Springfield, Mass., Dec. 3, 1880,
James Woodward, in his 57th year. Deceased
was born in Petersham, Mass., Feb. 14, 1824.
He leaves a loving wife, who deeply mourns his
loss, and many brothers and sisters to whom he


was affectionately endeared. On the silver plate
of his coffin was engraved the one simple word,
REST. His funeral services were held at his
residence Dec. 6. He was buried beside his
children, who had all died in infancy.
	The poem published on the first page was
written on the occasion of his death by his sister
and mine, and is more expressive, perhaps, than
anything I could have written. Farewell, my
dear brother, until we shall meet again.

