TOOELE  STAKE  QUARTERLY  CON-
FERENCE.
Minutes  of  the  Quarterly  Conference  of  the
Relief Society  of  Tooele  Stake, held  at Grants-
ville  December  11  and  12, 1880, Mrs. Mary  A.
Hunter  presiding.  Singing, “Arise, O  glorious
Zion."  Prayer by Bro. Anderson.  Singing by
the  choir.  Reports  read.  Sister Presendia L.
Kimball, of Salt  Lake  City, then addressed the
meeting-  It  was a great  many years now since
the Relief Society was  organized by the Prophet
Joseph, and  that it had been a great blessing to
many  of  the  sick  and  destitute.  Spoke  of her
many years’ practical experience in plural mar-
riage;  she Joyed her sisters, with whom  she  had
been associated, in  a  family capacity.  Advised
the sisters to take good dare of  their  children,
give  them  good counsel and  never drive the
from home: teach  them  purity and honesty, and
to observe good  hours, and set  them  a  good ex-
ample.  Exhorted the sisters to be kind to those
who  need comfort; bless  those  to  whom  they
ministered in temporal things;
 Sister Elizabeth  Howard,  Salt  Lake  City,
spoke  upon  the  parable  of the ten virgins, five
wise  and  five foolish; exhorted  the sisters  to
imitate the example of the  wise  virgins, who
had oil in  their  lamps.  Alluded  to  the love of
[-]ress and the extravagance which was prevalent
among  the  Saints  at  the  present time;  said it
was not good  to dress little girls  like little pup-
pets.  Closed  with  remarks  upon  the Word of
Wisdom.  Bro.  Anderson  testified  to  the  truth
of the sisters'  remarks,  and  encouraged  all  to
persevere in the work they were doing to benefit
each other and build up Zion. Adjourned  until
2 p.m. Singing.  Benediction by Bro. McBride.
Afternoon session.  Devoted  to  Primary  As-
sociations.  After the usual exercises, Sister Hale
asked  the children  some questions, which were
very  promptly  answered.  The  children  were
very orderly.  Mrs. E. Howard gave them some
excellent instructions  on  good  behavior,  obe-
dience  to  parents, and honor to  the  priesthood
of God.  Told  them  to  try  and  remember  all
that was taught  them  in  their  meetings, pray
night and morning, and always speak the truth.
Instructed them to pray regularly fer the authori-
ties  of  the  Church, and for President George Q.
Cannon, that  he  might have  power given him
in Congress to be  preserved from the snares set
for him, and ward off all evil from the Saints.
Mrs.  Kimball  addressed  the  children  for  a
short time; told, them to be kind to aged people.
Entreated the little boys not to smoke tobacco or
drink whiskey, or  use profane language, but  to
keep  their  bodies  pure,  and  to  pray  to their
Father in  heaven  night  and  morning.  Told
them to be kind to all dumb animals, never treat
them cruelly.  If they would observe what was
taught  them  they  would  become  intelligent,
great  and  powerful.  Adjourned  after  singing
and prayer.
The  evening was  occupied  by Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference, Sisters  Kimball and Howard giving
good instruction.  Counseled the young ladies to
cultivate the  higher qualities  of  their  natures,
and not associate with those who are not seeking
to serve  God, but use all the influent possible
for  improvement, mental  and  spiritual  culture,
and  not  speak  lightly  of  plural  marriage, but
sustain  it  and  teach it in their  meetings; said
the  principle  was  elevating  and  ennobling.
Read all good books, fill their minds with  useful
knowledge, for  they could  take  that with  them
when they went behind the vail.
Sunday morning the ladies  attended the  Sun-
day  School, and  Sisters  Kimball  and  Howard
each made a short and appropriate address.
	Sunday afternoon.  The  Sacrament  was  ad-
ministered, and  then  the  sisters were called up-
on  to  speak.  Sister  Kimball  spoke  upon  obe-
dience, the  redemption  of  the  dead, the  duties
which  pertained  to  the  practical  work Which
must be done for those who had not received the
Gospel here in the flesh.  Said the Saints should
be  faithful  to  their  covenants  made  in  holy
places, true  to  their integrity, and their God.
Sister Howard remarked  that every  good  wo-
man ought to have her name enrolled in the Re-
lief Society;  every mother should set in exam-
ple before  her  children of  truthfulness  and hon
esty; we should live so as to have the confidence
of each  other,  and  not  let  pride  get  into  our
hearts.  We are tried  in  many ways.  Spoke of
Abraham’s trial  of  offering  up  his Son Isaac.
enjoined  obedience  to  the  priesthood;  thought
we ought to  encourage homemade, clothes  and
home manufactures of all kinds.
President H. J.  Grant  said he was  pleased to
have the sisters from Salt Lake City visit them:
felt he could endorse all they had said.  He had
always been acquainted with, the Relief Society
work; knew it was the, mothers who  formed the
characters  of their  children;  realized  these  or-
ganizations were a great help to the Bishops.
Apostle  F. M. Lyman  gave  a  description of
the Goose  Creek country, and related some inci-
dents of  his travels with Apostle Erastus Snow.
Said  the company in "which they traveled, con-
sisting of fourteen or fifteen  persons, always at-
tended  regularly  to prayers, asking the  Lord to
preserve  them,  etc.  Spoke  of  the  kind  and
obliging conduct of a young boy who was with
them, how  he  admired  his  manner;  he  could
not help making mention of his good conduct.
Bishop E. Hunter  said  he  hoped they would
recollect  and  put  in  practice  all that had been
said to them, etc.
Pres. Grant  made a few closing  remarks, and


the Conference was adjourned until the middle
of March, to be held in Tooele City, Singing.
Benediction by Bro. John Rich.
P. S. On Saturday the brass  band was in at-
tendance at the Conference, and inspired the
people with sweet music. The band is under
the leadership of Prof. James Ballitt.
ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.


