"GOD KNEW THE BEST."

	"Then be content, poor heart!
God's plans, like lilies,  pure and white unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
Time will reveal the calyxes of gold."
	These expressive  lines were a favorite  quota-
tion  of  the  lady who forms  the  subject of this
memoir.  Young, beautiful and tenderly beloved,
and yet she has gone-gone when her life seemed
most  complete, in the rich fulness  of the crown
of holy  motherhood; gone  from  earthly vision,
passed  over  the  "river  of  life,"  to  the other
shore-the unknown.  Lovely,  innocent  and
good, the angels came and wafted her pure spirit
away  from  earth,  where, freed  from  pain  and
sorrow, and all the weariness and hindrances of
mortal  life, she  might develop  those  higher at-
tributes of the soul  that  were  imprisoned here.
	Mrs. Fannie Adele Cole, nee McBride, beloved
wife  of  Frank  Cole,  Esq., of this city, departed
this life early in the afternoon of Friday, Jan. 7,
1881.  On  the  18th  of December  last she gave
birth to a fine, healthy boy, and was apparently
convalescent, when, from  some  unknown cause
she took cold, a chill followed, and subsequently
she passed  peacefully away in a calm  and  tran-
quil sleep.
	Mrs. Cole was, in the best sense  of the word,
a superior woman.  She had  been carefully edu-
cated,  and  possessed  that  innate  refinement
which  gives  sublimity  to  womanly  character;
added to this were  the  charms  of rare  culture,
gentleness and  genuine kindness.  Of generous
impulses,  she  was  constantly  planning for the
happiness of her husband and friends, forgetful
of self in those she loved.  She delighted in the
beauties  of  nature, and  reveled in works of art.
Of  a  poetic  temperament and  decidedly artistic
tastes, she was ever  striving to improve the tal-
ents  with  which  she was  most  generously en-
dowed.  She was  a  model  housekeeper, and her
home was a place of beauty, adorned with paint-
ings, embroidery  and  elegant  trifles, the work-
manship of her own hands.  She was intellec-
tually gifted  and  had  devoted much time to lit-
erary pursuits, having written for the press from
early  girlhood.  It  was  perhaps  owing  to  her
sympathy with  those  engaged in  literary work
that our acquaintance  first  commenced  several
years  ago, which  ultimately  ripened  into a sub-
lime friendship.  She will ever be  like  a  bright
picture in  my memory.  A  leaf has dropped out
of  my life-history  whereon  was  written  many
tender things-the story  of  our friendship-a
beautiful leaf, silver edged and violet-tinted, 
whose fragrance still remains, sweet as the per-
fume of  June roses.  "God  knew the best."
	The poem  published  below  was  recited,  by
Mrs. Cole's request, at her funeral.
AUNT  EM.
THE  CITY  OF  THE LIVING.
			-------
In a long-vanished age, whose varied story
	No record has to-day---
So long ago expired its  grief  and glory---
	There flourished, far away,

In a broad realm,  whose  beauty passed all measure,
	A city fair and wide,
Wherein the dwellers lived in peace and pleasure,
	And never any died.
Disease and pain and death, those stern marauders
	Which mar our world's fair face,
Never encroached upon the pleasant borders
	Of that bright dwelling place.
No fear of parting, and no dread of dying
	Could ever enter there;
No mourning for the lost,  no anguished crying,
	Made any face less fair.
Without the city wall death reigued as ever,
	And graves rose side by side;
Within, the dwellers laughed at his endeavor,
	And never any died!
O happiest of all earth's favored places!
	O bliss, to dwell therein-
To live in the sweet light of loving faces,
	And fear no grave between!
To feel no death-damp gathering cold and colder,
	Disputing life's  warm truth;
To  live on, never lonelier or older-
	Radiant in deathless youth!
And hurrying from the world's remotest quarters;
	A tide of pilgrims flowed,
Across broad plains,  and  over  mighty waters,
	To find that blessed abode,
Where never death should come between and sever
	Them from their loved part;
Where they might work, and will, and live forever,
	Still holding heart to heart.
And so they lived in happiness and pleasure,
	And grew in power and pride,
And did great deeds, and laid up store of treasure,
	And never any died!
And many years rolled on, and saw them striving
	With unabated breath;
And other years still found and left them living,
	And gave no hope of death.
Yet listen, hapless soul, whom angels pity,
	Craving a boon like this-
Mark how the dwellers in the wondrous city
	Grew weary of  their bliss.
One and another, who had been concealing
	The pain  of  life's long thrall,
Forsook their pleasant places, and came stealing
	Outside the city wall,
Craving, with wish that brooked no more denying-
	So long had it been crossed-
The blessed possibility  of dring-
	The treasure they had lost!
Daily the current  of rest seeking mortals
	Swelled to a broader tide,
Till none were left within the city's portals,
	And graves grew green  outside.
Would it be worth the having  or the giving,
	The boon  of endless breath?
Ah, for the weariness that comes of living,
	There is no cure  but death!
Ours  were, indeed,  a fate deserving pity,
	Were that sweet rest denied;
And few, methinks,  would care to find the city
	Where never any died!


