BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The Twelve Apostles, when receiving their
charge from President Oliver Cowdery previous
to starting on their first mission to the Eastern
States, were warned of the great difficulties
which they would meet with in visiting all the
nations of the earth, they would need wisdom in
a ten-fold proportion to what they had ever had
for they would have to combat all the prejudices
of all nations; they were to preach this Gospel
to every nation, and should they in the least de-
gree come short of their duty, great would be
their condemnation, for the greater the calling
the greater the transgression, he therefore
warned them to cultivate great humility, for
he knew the pride of the human heart, and to
beware lest the flatterers of the world should lift
them up, and to beware lest their affections
should be captivated by worldly objects and to
let their ministry be first, and remember that
the souls of men were committed to their charge
telling them that if they would mind their call-
ing they should always prosper. With regard
to superiority he said, "The ancient Apostles
sought to be great, but brethren, lest the seeds
of discord be sown in matter understand the
voice of the spirit on this occasion. God does not
love you better or more than others. You are to
contend for the faith once delivered to the Saints.
Jacob you know wrestled until he obtained.
It was by fervent prayer and diligent search that
you have obtained the testimony that you are now
able to bear. You are as one. You are equal in
bearing the Keys of the Kingdom to all nations.
You are called to preach the Gospel of the Son of
God to the nations of the earth. It is the will of
your Heavenly Father that you proclaim his
Gospel to the ends of the earth, and the Islands
of the sea. Be zealous to save souls. The soul
of one man is as precious as the soul of another.
You are to bear this message to those who con-
sider themselves wise, and such may persecute
you, they may seek your life. The adversary
has always sought the life of the servants of God.
You are therefore to be prepared at all times to
make a sacrifice of your lives, should God require
it in the advancement and building up of his
cause. Murmur not at God. Be always prayer
ful, be always watchful. You will bear with
me while I relieve the feelings of my heart.
We shall not see another day like this.	*	*	*
You will see the time when you will desire to see
such a day as this and you will not see it.
	"Every heart wishes you peace and prosperity,
but the scenes with you will inevitably change.
Let no man take your bishopric,and beware that
you lose not your crowns. It will require your
whole souls. It will require courage like E-
noch's. The time is near when you will be in the
midst of congregations, who will gnash their
teeth upon you. This Gospel must roll and will
roll till it fills the whole earth. Did I say con-
gregations would gnash upon you? Yea I say na-
tions will gnash upon you. You will be consid-
dered the worst of men. Be not discouraged at
this, when God pours out his Spirit the enemy
will rage, but, God, remember is on your right
hand and on your left. A man though he may
be considered the worst, has joy who is conscious
that he pleases God. The lives of those who pro-
claim the true Gospel will be in danger, this has
been the case ever since the days of righteous
Abel. The same opposition has been manifested
 wherever men came forward to publish the Gos-
pel. The time is coming when you will be the
worst by many and by some the best of men.
The time is coming when you will be perfectly
familiar with the things of God. This testimony
will make those who do not believe your testi-
mony seek your lives. But there are whole na-
tions who will receive your testimony. They
will call you good men. Be not lifted up when
you are called good men. Remember you are
young men, and you shall be spared, I include
the other three. Bear them in mind in your
prayers, carry their cares to a throne of grace.
Although they are not present,yet you and they
are equal. This appointment is calculated to
create an affection in you, for each other,
stronger than death. Your lives shall be in great
jeopardy, but the promise of God is that you
shall be delivered.	*	*	*	The day is coming
when the work of God must be done. Israel
shall be gathered. The seed of Jacob shall be
gathered from their long dispersion. There will be
a feast to Israel, the elect of God. It is a sorrowful
tale but the Gospel must be preached and his
(God's) ministers be rejected, but where can
Israel be found and not receive your testimony

[Column 2]
and not rejoice? No where. The prophicies are
full of great things that are to take place in the
last days. After the Elect is gathered out,
destruction shall come on the inhabitations of the
earth. All nations shall feel the wrath of God,
after they have been warned by the Saints of the
Most High. If you will not warn them others
will, and you will lose your crowns. You must
prepare your minds to bid a long farewell to
Kirtland even till the great day come. You
will see what you never expected to see. You
will need the mind of Enoch or Elijah and the
faith of the Brother of Jared. You must be pre-
pared to walk by faith, however appalling the
prospect to human view. You, and each of you,
should feel the force of the imperious mandate,
Son go labor in my vineyard, and cheerfully re-
cieve what comes, but in the end you will stand
while others will fall. You have read in the
revelation concerning ordination. Beware how
you ordain, for all are not like this nation. They
will willingly receive the ordinances at your
hand to put you out of the way. There will be
times when nothing but the Angels of God can
deliver you out of their hand. We appeal to
your intelligence. We appeal to your under-
standings that we have so far discharged our
duty to you. We consider it one of the greatest
condescensions of our Heavenly Father in point-
ing you out to us. You will be stewards over
the ministry. We have work to do that no other
man can do. You must proclaim the Gospel in
its simplicity and purity, and we commend you
to God and the word of his grace,	*	*	*
	"We now expect you to be faithful to fulfill in all
things and permit me to repeat all nations have
a claim on you. You are bound together as the
three witinesses were—You notwithstanding can
part and meet, and meet to part again till your
heads are silvered o'er with gray."
	After the Twelve returned from their mission
East they had a council with the first Presidency
in the house of the Lord where, my father says,
we laid our grievances before them concerning
some things which had transpired during our
mission. Viz., that Dr. Warren Cowdery and
others having used an undue influence over
the first Presidency through Oliver Cowdery and
others, they had suspended "Orson Hyde and
William E. McLellen accusing them, with the
Twelve, of not preaching the gathering to Zion,
or of gathering means to purchase lands in Zion,
when they were at Freedom, which was proved
to be a false accusation."
	"All things were reconciled to our minds, we
had a joyful season and one long to be remem-
bered by us: We continued together a day and
night."
	I will here remark that every individual who
had used an influence against the Twelve on
their mission, have apostatized and gone out of
the Church, and this should remain as an ever-
lasting warning to all others. In those days
there was a continual itching in certain individ-
uals to destroy the union existing between the
Twelve and the first Presidency and the union
in the first Presidency, which thing they did at
last effect.	*	*	*	"Oliver Cowdery, Warren
Cowdery, Jared Carter, Frederic G. Williams
and six of the Twelve became disaffected, turned
against Joseph and those of the Twelve who sus-
tained him, calling them hard names for sustain-
ing Joseph."
	"From the time that the reconcilation took
place between the first Presidency and the
Twelve, a reformation commenced in the
Church, most of the Elders and male members
felt to confess their sins. Those meetings of
humiliation repentance and confessing of sins
were truly the beginning of good days to us,and
they continued through the endowment."


