	     UTAH STAKE

   Minutes of the Ninth Quarterly Meeting  of 
Relief Society, held in  Provo Meeting  House,
Nov. 27th 1880,  Our  President  Sister  Mar-
garet  T.  Smoot  being absent  on  account of
sickness, the  meeting  was  presided  over  by
Counselor  Mary  John.  A  number  of the
brethren were also present.  Visitors from Salt
Lake City, Sisters E. B. Wells, S.M. Kimball,
and  Sister  E.  Howard.  Minutes  of  former
Conference read  and approved.  The reading
of the reports  of  the  quarter  were omitted  in
order to give time to hear from our visitors.
  The Presidents of the different wards  of the
city, and  societies throughout  the county, gave
verbal  reports,  all  bearing  testimony  to  the
faithfulness of the  few who  attended their So-
ciety  meetings  regularly.  Sister  Kimball
made some very instructive remarks relative to
the Relief Societies, gave  some  instructions to 
Secretaries. Said she  thought it  would have
been  pleasant to  have  had a  record  of  past
events to  have  read  at our  Jubilee, and pro-
posed to have a box with important items and
events and photographs etc., to be opened by her
successors,  and if any Society wishes  they  can
forward items  to her to  be deposited therein.
  Sister E.B. Wells said, I  think  the  sisters
of Utah County are improving in various ways.
Spoke of  the  Relief  Societies as  a  means  of 
educating the sisters  they  also  make us better
acquainted with  one  another.  Thought  the
WOMAN'S  EXPONENT, had  been  the means of
doing much good at home and abroad. Spoke
in reference to the  Primary Hymn  Books and
Tune Book for the children, thought they were
well adapted for the use  of the little folks and
would be a great blessing to  them.  Meeting
adjourned until half past 2.
   Afternoon session:  After  the  the usual ex-
ercises of singing and prayer Sister John called
on  the  sisters  that  wished to speak.  Sister
Johnson bore her testimony to the truth of this 
Gospel. L.W. Kimball made a few  remarks
in behalf  of the  young  mothers who  were at
home attending  to  their  families  of  young
children, moved  that they  be counted  among
the faithful  few, and although she considered
it their duty to attend meetings whenever they
could, she  knew  there were times  when  they
could  not  possibly  leave  their  little  ones; at
least such  had  been  her  experience.  Sister
Kimball  spoke  in  praise  of  the  silk  hand-
kerchiefs  that  were  on  exhibition;  thought
great praise was due Sisters Sanders, Smoot and
Beebe for their energy  and perseverance in
the manufacture of the some.
   Sister S.M. Kimball said, in regard to Sister
L. Kimball's  remarks,  "the  mothers are  ex-
cusable on common occasions, but  they should
attend  their  meetings  that  their  minds  may
expand and enlarge that they may  increase in
knowledge and  may  truly become helpmeets.
Sister Howard said, the Relief Societies are do-
ing a vast  amount of  good, it is  the mothers
that form the characters of their  children, let
them  take  time  to  improve  their  minds, let
them  read  good books,  let  them  read  the
news papers  and  inform themselves as to how
the Lord is  working  with the  nations in these
last days.  Let  us bring  up our young  people
to good habits and inculcate principles of truth
and  virtue  let  us  teach  them  to  read  good
books,  It says in the  Book of Covenants that
virtue  cleaves  to  virtue  and  knowledge  to
knowledge, let us give them  good  advise and
then we will clear  our skirts;  let  us  put down
the spirit  of infidelity that  is  growing among
our young people.  I wish  also to  say a  word
in  favor  of  plural  marriage  it  is  elevating,
purifying and ennobling, it rests on the mothers
to inculcate  it in the  hearts of their  children
let them not  forget  that  it  is yet extant  and
the  principle  emanated  from  God.  I  am
thankful to God for a  practical  religion, even
in our daily duties we can  ask God to give us
strength  to do everything in a right and proper
manner that  the  Lord  may  love to  dwell in
our habitations, teach  our  children  to  attend
their prayers and to  respect us and respect the
rights of others.
 Sister E.B. Wells  spoke  a short  time on
various subjects  pertaining  to  our  salvation.
Of the  spirit  of infidelity  that  was  gaining
ground in the world and the lack of spirituality
and faith.  Said  she  had  witnessed a  great
many  manifestations  of the power  of  God  in
healing the sick.  We read  that  the  glory  of
God is intelligence.  I  feel that we need more
knowledge than we have and should read more
good books and inform  ourselves,  continued
giving  good instructions, to young mothers in
their several  duties  etc. Sister  Booth from
Alpine asked the  question, how  long should a
child stay in the  Primary  Association? Sister
S.M. Kimball  replied  keep  them  as  long  as
you  can.  Sister  John  made  a  few  remarks
saying, for the good  instructions  that we have
received I feel to rejoice, I am pleased with our
reports.  I feel  to  be  one with  my  sisters, I
know this is the work  of God.  Bishop  John-
son spoke words of  encouragement and praise
thought we did not lose  anything  by going to
meeting, do not let  Satan  tempt  you  to  stay
away but  tell  the  tempter  to get thee behind
me Satan.  Spoke of the  great help the Relief
Society of his ward had  been  to him in caring
for the poor, etc. Sister H.A. Beebe spoke in
favor  of  the  silk  organization,  also  bore  her
testimony to the truth and signified  her  deter-
mination to continue faithful, invited all to at-
tend silk meeting in the evening  and find out
what was being done.  It was motioned  that the
Conference  be  adjourned  for  three  months.
Singing,  "The  Spirit  of God."  Benediction
by Bro. Powell.
