FAMILIARITY BREEDS CONTEMPT.

	Almost without exception allowance has to
be made for all sayings of a profane world; as
both its ideas and its language can but faintly
approach the expression of sublime truths.
Like the poet it can "lead you to the gate"
only, but you, yourself must make the effort to
get in. The Savior said "Do not throw pearls
before swine." Kind young reader of WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT! I have a desire to talk a
little to you upon these sayings, and if I succeed
in getting your attention I may fortify you
against many an error; the victims of which
may never tell you of their bitter and regretful
sighs heaved in the silent night, where only
angels took notice.
	You know that your "familiarity" with your
kind,loving intimate friends,does not breed con-
tempt for you,in those friends; but on the con-
trary, you become more and more attached and
devoted to each other, as your friendship grows
older. But now let us see what this saying of
a profane world, "familiarity breeds contempt"
means. I do not purpose to introduce you to a
profane world, or make you acquainted with
its follies; but I will refer you to Matthew, 13th
Chapter, and ask you to read the last 5 verses,
in which you have the explanation. I will
take the liberty to add "He, the Savior,left be-
cause he would not throw pearls before swine."
	Now I will suppose, my young friends, that
you are qualified to move, even in the society
of the Savior; and, that your familiarity with
some person, should breed contempt, in that
person, for you. Suppose again, that your
grieved heart, trustingly appealed to me, I
would dare to say, without hearing the other
side: that person is not worthy of your friend-
ship; and I might say to you: "do not again
throw pearls before swine."
	Now think with me for a little while. An
attempt by anybody to degrade his neighbor, ab-
solutely reveals that that neighbor is better than
he or she who made such an attempt.
	You know the Savior said, that the measure
we give to others, shall again be measured un-
to us. Why? The "measure" that bred
contempt for you, was envy, attempting to put
you on a level with that which is below you,to
degrade you. How will then the judgment
(measure) revert back upon the offender? His
attempt "enviously" to degrade you on purpose
to exalt himself thwarted his designs, re-
vealing what he wanted to conceal: his own
inferiority.
	Do you see now how I dare to be so decisive
a judge as above?
	It is well your heart is full of love and sym-
pathy, but beware of that spongy softness, that
is afraid of calling a thing by its right name.
You cannot preserve your heart, pure, if you
tolerate sin! The Lord does not do it; and
He wants us to be like him in order to obtain
of his glory. Be careful therefore who you
take into your friendship. Ask your mother
or your teacher to tell you instances of your
suffering sisters who threw their pearls before
swine; and who in disgrace, dishonored, turned
back upon the road strewn with tears and re-
gret; to regain (at least partly) what they had
lost, through being entangled in bad company.
	I am sure that if we are fortunate enough, to
meet and associate with our beloved Queen-
Mother Eve, we will have an esteem and love
for her, that words but faintly can express.
With such feelings let us think a little more,

[Column 2]
over what happened in the Garden of Eden;
at the same time a dmitting that we know
neither the extent nor intensity of the tempta-
tion to which she was exposed; neither can we
measure her strength or ability to resist; but
by reading the 5 first verses of Chapter 3
Genesis, we have the whole story told in sub-
lime clearness and simplicity. Lucifer, the
most cunning Master Liar, who drew a third
part of his brethren into rebellion against God,
and made them believe that he (Lucifer) was
the superior of the two; this very monster ap-
peared before Mother Eve in the Garden of
Eden; "imitating" all the affability he recol-
lected having seen in the Mansions of Glory;
for if possible to elude aversion, and fascinate
Eve, so she should not be able to discern the
fraud.
	His first effort was concealment. Why? be-
cause he wanted to lie and deceive; for what
purpose? To prejudice Eve against God. Lu-
cifer did know,that good people cannot at once
be brought to accept sin; therefore, falsehood
and truths had to be mixed,(as in 5th verse) to
warp the mind from good to evil, by prejudice:
the tactical, infernal introduction to ruin and
death.
	In the 5 mentioned verses in the 3rd Ch.
Genesis, we see then how the fall was inaugur-
ated in the Garden of Eden, disadjusting the
minds of men, by prejudice against God,
brought about by a professional liar for the
object of concealing evil; which admitted
reveals consciousness of wilful sin. Through
the gift of the Holy Ghost, the "desire" to con-
ceal, is the very thing which reveals it, to the 
Children of Light. If as in the Garden of
Eden,Lucifer conquers, then darkness reigns;
and where darkness is exposed to light, pre-
judice is overcome.
	Whether then, as in the Garden of Eden,
or as in the case above, if "throwing pearls be-
fore swine" is not studiously avoided, the same
evils will be at work, prejudice and envy. It
is sin versus innocence; and wherever you go,
where these two factors exist, it is the same
process over again, as in the Garden of Eden.
It is for the Saints to learn this lesson; the
Lord will not destroy our agency but we have
to shun evil and choose good.
