				HUNTSVILLE

 Huntsville Relief Society is partly composed
of Scandinavians, who we must say are hand
and heart in building up the kingdom of God.
Ready  at  any  call,  at  any  time, no  matter
what  the  work--spinning,  gleaning,  raising
flax, making  carpets, quilts, &c.  We have a
variety of home industries;  we  also  raise  our
own  wool, which  is  converted  into  stockings
with the greatest economy.
   With the kind help of the brethren we have
been  able  to  raise some grain  at times, which
has  proved  of  great  benefit  in  helping to re-
lieve the poor.  I think the sisters are as good
financiers as the Lord wants when  directed in
the proper spirit, for they are ever ready to be
directed  by  the  PRIESTHOOD  of  God.  We
have a granary, built by the Society, which at
present has in  its bins  one hundred bushels of
wheat, and considerable lent out.
  Our sisters,  many  of  them,  are  clothed  in
the winter with the work of their  own  hands,
and  they carry with  them  as  good a spirit as
though  they  had  all  the  paltry  fashions  of
Babylon  heaped  upon  them;  in  fact,  we  are
troubled but very little with the outside fash-
ions,  and  no outside  influences  to  draw  the
hearts of our children from the Gospel; though
a little rough at  times,  their  hearts  are  not
mixed with traditions which their parents havehad to contend with.  When they go out, they
generally mix  with  brethren  and  sisters, who
study to improve the morals of their neighbor's 
children  as  their own.  How  grateful parents
should  feel  to those who  study  how to improve
the future prospects of the rising generation.
  We have a  Young  Ladies' association in a
healthy condition,  with  Sister  Mary  Moselle
Halls as President, daughter of our late Relief
Society  President, Sister  Mary  J. Hammond.
She is a young lady of great integrity, follow-
ing in the footsteps of  her dear mother's exam-
ple, who  never  shrank  from  any  duty, until
death relieved  her  from  earthly  toil.  Her
memory will ever live, and  also  her counsel, in
the hearts of many.
 We are  very  thankful  to  have  a Primary
Association;  we  can already see the  benefit of
that  spiritual  education  which  all  need  to
make  good  fathers and mothers.  Truly it was
the  Spirit  of  God  that  inspired  the Primary
organization.
  We do  not wish  to  impose  upon your time
and space, but pray God  to  bless  you  and all
the sisters of the Relief  Societies who take any
active part in the  cause of truth and virtue.
				ELIZA A.  TRACY, Pres't.
