THE DAUGHTER OF DUNROD.

	Lillias was the daughter of the Rev. Wil-
liam Dunrod, of the famous city of Edinburgh.
She was named after her grandmother, Lillias
Maxwell, of the house of Herries, and she pos-
sessed many of the mental and moral qualities
of that amiable lady. Miss Lillias had been
liberally educated, and, although her parents
were not rich, they were in comfortable cir-
cumstances. It was naturally hoped that an
advantageous alliance would be made for Lil-
lias, with some one of at least equal wealth
and social standing. The family of Dunrod
was an ancient one, claiming direct descent
from Sir James Lindsay, the friend and com-
panion of Robert Bruce. It is true, the ancient
patrimony of the family had dwindled into
insignificance, the estates settled on them by
Bruce and the early Stuarts, for services ren-
dered at a time when success was too frequently
the guage of merit in human transactions, these
estates had passed away. So recently as in
1610 the Mains of Kilbride, near Glasgow,
had been alienated; subsequently the lands
and castle of Dunrod, and other estates, had
passed away from the family. As to property,
it was a subject that caused no anxiety to Miss
Lillias Dunrod, and when her grandmother
told her of the former opulence of her fathers,
and of the probability that she would marry
well in consequence of her family connections,
such considerations did not trouble Miss
Lillias.
	It so happened that that young lady had al-
ready settled the question of marriage to her
entire satisfaction. A young gentleman of
Dufton, in Westmoreland, appeared to her to be
the most suitable man in the world for a hus-
band. His name was plain John Phesdo; he
was a descendant of the former laird of Phesdo.
He was also related to the Dunrod family.
All this was well enough as far as it went, but
he was poor, and the father of Lillias for this
reason did not think the match a desirable one.
In vain did Miss Lillias try to reason out the
matter with her father, by showing that it was
no fault of John's that he was poor. If the fault
rested with any one, it was with the grand-
father of John, who had lost his estate by his
own imprudence. How far Miss Lillias was
correct in her conclusions it is not very easy to
say at this distance of time, as the manuscript
only states as follows: "The laird of Phesdo
had many followers; they were out with the
men of the Falconer family with hawks, at
Montrose. A quarrel arose between the fol-
lowers of Phesdo and those of Falconer, in the
midst of which a baillie came in and tried, to
quell the tumult. While the riot continued,

[Column 3]
John of Phesdo came among them with a
drawn sword, and cut off the baillie's arm.
For this offense the baillie took advantage of
law, and Phesdo forfeited his estate. The es-
tate is now in the Falconer family." This was
written in 1689.
	Now the way in which Miss Lillias had read
history led her to believe that the act of the
laird of Phesdo was not nearly so malicious or
sanguinary as that of some of her own ances-
tors who had been rewarded for such deeds.
Besides this, she argued, John Phesdo is not to
blame for an act done by his grandfather.
Much more would have been said if her father
would have listened to it; and finally, as Miss
Lillias could not obtain the parental consent,
she determined to be married without, and
John Phesdo and Lillias Dunrod became one,
living together very happily for many years;
although comparatively poor. This was the
"imprudent marriage" that had determined
Mr. Apothecary Lindsay to see that his daugh-
ter was married to a wealthy merchant; we
shall see how he succeeded—time is a great re-
vealer of secrets. It may be there is something
more to live for than gold and silver; it may
be that marriage is for a higher purpose than
mere selfish gratification. Possibly we are liv-
ing links, connecting the present and future
with the past, the spiritual and the temporal,
the things of time with those of eternity.

To be Continued.


