CONTINUED.

	All at once a cry arose that electrified the peo-
ple, and rang from ocean to ocean, from Lake
Superior to the Gulf of Mexico. It was gold!
gold! It had been found on the coast of Cali-
fornia in such quantities that the whole coun-
try felt the thrill of excitement. The mechanic
left his work shop, the farmer his plough, the
gambler his den, the speculator left his stocks
and bonds, and all rushed, pell mell, for the
gold fields. Jesse too caught the fever; why
should he not have gold too? It was not for his
own comfort, he told himself, but for his wife
and little ones, not for aggrandizement nor
worldly honor, but for comfort and happiness.
Give me not riches, the prophet said, lest I
grow proud and deny Thee, nor poverty lest I
grow covetous and steal. So Jesse felt that he
did not wish to be a rich man, only to gain a
competence, and comforts for his old age, and
it all seemed so easy when he could dig it up
out of the ground in great yellow nuggets and
scales of yellow gold. How many comforts it
would bring for his darling Mary, how much
might be done for his sweet children! A little
gold would do all this, and he had only to
dig it out of the ground. There was much to
overcome before he could do all this, but his
will was strong and he could endure much with
such an object in view. With a mind full of
bright anticipations he provided for his family
the best he could in so short a time, and joined
the company that was starting for the Eldorado
—the land of bright dreams and bitter dis-
appointment, of gold and of crime, of sunshine
and shadows.
	He kissed his wife and children goodbye and
started; Mary watched him out of sight, then
embracing her children she turned into her
cabin to sit down and cry. She was not of a
sanguine temperament. She was always ready
for an emergency, and made the best of present
opportunities, but had no very bright anticipa-
tions for the future. She favored Jesse's idea
of building a sawmill, for she knew that lumber
would be a staple article, and in good demand;
if emigration continued and good crops were
raised they might succeed in making a com-
fortable home. But this dream of gold was a
far-off thing, the chasing of a phantom, some-
thing too bright for reality. Jesse was gone,
her husband, her protector; she was alone now
with her little helpless children, in that lone
cabin in the woods; with the wild beasts around
her, and the hiss of the serpent in her path;
alone in her helplessness and her poverty, with
no kind voice to cheer-her, no strong hand to


protect her. The men working at the mill, or
passing the cabin with their teams, relieved
the monotony of the day, but when night came,
and the stars shone down,so cold and so far off,
and the wolf howled, and the night owl hooted,
she kindled a fire, more for protection than use
although the evenings are chilly in the cañons,
and drawing her little ones around the hearth,
with baby on her knee and Minnie by her side,
she told her tales of the past, or anticipations
of the future, to amuse or interest the child.
She had no supernatural terrors, but the agony
of these long, lonely nights can scarcely be
described. Her cabin was not strong enough
to proctect her from beasts of prey if they should
attack her, and huge rattlesnakes often crept
through the floor, in a friendly way, but their
calls were far from being agreeable. Their
small stock of provisions diminished, and no
way seemed to open for more; their meal was
measured and the rations grew less daily, until
all was gone and there was nothing but dried
squash and the milk of their two cows, which,
owing to the severity of flies, was frequently
bloody. They had no meat, and the roots and
weeds were all strange and for aught they
knew were poisonous. So the weeks passed
by and hunger was added to their other dis-
comforts, relieved now and then by a little
provisions from the settlement. About harvest
time the lumber men left the cañon to attend
their crops and they were about to be left en-
tirely alone in that fearful lonely place fifteen
miles from town. Mary could not endure it
any longer; she felt the torture of fear and
loneliness was more than her mind could bear.
Although she had no home to go to,she insisted
on being moved to town, where she could at
least have human companionship. Accord-
ingly her little all, her children and house-
hold treasures were taken to the settlement.
There were no houses to rent there, and her
things were unloaded in a friend's door-yard
until a cabin could be built for her. Notwith-
standing the unpleasantness of her situation
she felt it a great pleasure to enjoy once more
the society of her own sex. To mingle with
her friends once more seemed to lessen the pain
of seperation, and distract her thoughts some-
what from constant anxiety about Jesse, from
whom, as yet, she had received no intelligence.
He had gone so far, and among such a mixed
multitude, and there were so many dangers and
hardships to contend with! She had never
been separated from him before; and it seemed
so far away over those dreary mountains, and
the time so long. If she could just see past
those rocky walls that seemed to shut her in,
so far from civilization, like a prison whose
doors might never be opened to give her again
the fresh, free air of her native land! If she
had not believed in the Gospel and trusted
implicitly in God she must indeed have suc-
cumbed to the terrible ordeal.
			To be Continued.


