Y. L. M. I. A. 11TH WARD.

	Dear Sisters:—Having been requested to
write a short article, I will now try to frame a
few remarks upon prayer. I think this is a
very important part of our religion, which we
should never fail to perform. We know by
attending to our prayers we are greatly blessed;
for by thus doing we not only show to our
Heavenly Father that we remember Him, but
also our gratitude for His many blessings,
which He so continually showers down upon
us. He gives us all that we have, and in Him
we move and have our being. Knowing, then,
that we are receiving everything that is good
from the Lord all the days of our life, how
great should be our thanks, and sincere our
adorations! Morning and night should we
bow the knee in humility and reverence to
Him that made us.
	Our Savior has commanded us to watch and
pray, lest we enter into temptation. I think
Satan is pleased when we forget our prayers,
for he knows he is getting an influence over
us, if he can persuade us to shirk that duty;
and sometimes he tries to make us believe that
we have not time to perform that sacred duty.
If he succeeds, then we know we are by thus
doing not only disobeying a law of God, but
we are losing a portion of His Holy Spirit, and
He is displeased with us. God has said if we
draw nigh unto Him He will draw nigh unto
us. This we cannot do without prayer.
	James the Apostle tells us that the prayer of
faith shall save the sick; and there are many
instances in the Bible and Book of Mormon
which show us what wonderful deeds were ac-
complished through attending to this holy
duty. Not only in the Bible and Book of Mor-
mon are we assured of the power of prayer,
but to-day we know of the efficacy of faith
and prayer combined. Through faith and
prayer the sick are restored to health, miracles
are performed, and we are delivered from the
hands of our enemies, who are seeking our de-
struction on every side; and I think if it were
not for the prayers that are continually going
up to God, we should not have thus been pre-
served, and the deserts would not blossom as
the rose." Utah would have remained barren
and uncultivated.
	When the Lord sent Isaiah to King Heze-
kiah, to tell him to put his house in order, be-
cause he should die, we read he turned his face


to the wall and prayed and wept; and before
Isaiah had gone into the middle court, the
word of the Lord came unto him, saying,
"Turn again, and tell Hezekiah thus saith the
Lord, I have heard thy prayers, I have seen
thy tears, behold, I will heal thee, and I will
add unto thy days fifteen years." Although
God had told King Hezekiah he should die,
yet through his prayers He had compassion up-
on him and listened to his entreaties for life.
So we see God hearkens to prayer and is
moved by it. We are told He is the same yes-
terday, to-day and forever; and if He listened
to Hezek[-]ah, He will hearken to our prayers,
if we walk before Him in truth and righteous-
ness.
	Through supplication to the Almighty the
dead have been raised, the clouds witheld
their rain for the space of three years, armies
were destroyed, and Samson was avenged upon
the Philistines, when he was brought before
them for sport. Thus we can tell what can be
accomplished through earnest prayer; and the
whisperings of God's Holy Spirit tell us how
necessary it is for us to pray at all times.
When Jesus was upon this earth, although He
was infallible, yet He prayed to His Father.
Then if it were needful for the Lord Jesus to
pray, how much more so is it for us, who are
sinful and liable to err at all times. I think
we should not only pray for the blessings of
God for ourselves, but for all those who are
connected with us in the Church of God; es-
pecially for those who are holding responsible
positions, and who are placed over us, because
they undertake to do a mighty work, and it
is a great task which they have to perform,
and I am sure by praying for them we help
to strengthen them, and thus they are made
more suited to their duties. This is why
they so continually ask us to give them our
faith and prayers. Paul and Peter, when
writing to the Saints, entreat them to pray for
all men, and especially for them who are of
the household of faith. "And for me," says
Paul, "that utterance may be given unto me,
that I may open my mouth boldly, to make
known the mystery of the Gospel." If those
good men required the prayers of the Saints, I
think it is requisite and right for us to pray
for the Apostles and Saints of to-day; and I
feel sure they need our prayers and that they
would like us to pray for them. These words
ofttimes pass through my mind: "The prayer
of a righteous man availeth much." Then I,
for one, would solicit the prayers of all good
men and women. And I pray God that I
may so live that my prayers for them will also
prevail with God and avail them much.
							EMILY BATT.
	S. L. City.


