WOMAN'S VOICE.
	I have  often  thought I should like to show
my  appreciation  of  your  valuable  paper  by
adding  a  few lines to  its  columns, could you
spare me  space.  Every  number  to  me is be-
coming more full of interest.  I sincerely hope
my sisters will continue to exert their efforts in
preparing food for our minds.  I feel that it is
our duty to  try to improve each other.  There
are some among us who have had but a limited
education,  consequently it is more difficult for
them  to  express thoughts and ideas, either by
voice  or by pen  and  paper, and such need en-
couragement, as  has  been  observed by  one of
our sisters in an article  entitled "Commenda-
tion  versus  Criticism," while  others  who have
been more fotunate can  get  along  better.  I
feel thankful that our young folks have such a
splendid opportunity of improving their minds;
they will  help  to  bring  forth have such a
splendid opportunity of improving their minds;
they will  help  to  bring  forth the talents that
are  now in obscurity among this people.  I be-
lieve  if  the  majority  of  us  were  not  so  timid
and  so  afraid  of  criticism, we  could do  more
in this work.  I hope  to see the day when  the
Latter-day  Saints  will  excel  all  other  people
in  both  prose  and  poetry.  I know if our de-
sires are pure the Spirit of the Lord will assist
us.  Let  us  endeavor  to have  books that will
be both amusing  and instructive to the young,
that they may have no desire to read the trash
of the  world.  I  join  my sisters  in  thanking
the author of a "Pen  Sketch  of an Illustrious
Woman,"  and  pray that  we may  all prove our-
selves worthy  of  a celestial crown  with her in
the kingdom of our God.  I think if we could
only  realize the glory that is in  store for those
who  do  right, we should not feel life so weari-
some nor would duty seem a task.
 I hope, dear  editor, you will  continue your
labor, for  our  benefit.  I wish  you  a  Happy
New Year, and success to the EXPONENT,
M. A. PINGREE.
Ogden City, Jan. 2, 1881.


THE old clothes that we wear no longer; may
give comfort and confidence to a man  in  naked
destitution.  The truths  that are so familiar to
us that we never think  about  them may raise
the  utterly ignorant to a sense of their human
brotherhood.--Hamerton.


