Hilltop Communion 784

Hand-painted glasses... Dear to the heart of all Utahns... These frosted glass beverage sets with delicate hand-painted seagulls in four graceful flights... In tones of soft blue and grey. Created exclusively by a famous artist for ZCMI. They make wonderful gifts! Send for yours today! Set of 8 glasses, 10 or 12 ounce: $6.95 Postage due: 25c Frosted Pitcher to match (not shown): $3.45 Postage due: 25c HOUSEWARES Downstairs Store. Mail Orders to Margot Manners % ZCMI. Residents of Utah please add 2% Sales Tax.

ZCMI Willard Luce "GATEWAY"

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THEVOL. 35, NO. 11 NOVEMBER 1948

NOVEMBER NOON Christie Lund Coles

The cornstalks now lie frayed upon the ground;
The sunflower faces, gaunt upon their stems,
Are stripped of foliage; silenced is the sound
Of the stream that splashed its brightly gleaming gems
Upon the bending salt grass on the shore,
Accompanying birds through every summer tune
That now is silenced, too, muted before
The barn sparrow's forlorn peep this autumn noon.

The fields, heat-seared and fallow, lie untilled
And scarred of breast; the monotonous chirp
Of crickets in the grass foretells the chilled
And lonely winter days that will usurp
The autumn now beyond this desolation.... 
What strength earth manifests in resignation.

The Cover: Arrangement of Architect's Drawing of Proposed Relief Society Building, by Evan Jensen.