Joy in Full Measure

President Belle S. Spafford (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1948)

THIS is indeed a glorious and history-making day in the life of Relief Society. It is a day that has been anxiously anticipated and one that will be long remembered—a day of rejoicing and thanksgiving.

Today we remember the thousands of our sisters throughout the world whom circumstances prevent being with us on this important occasion, but whose hearts and prayers are with us—sisters in faraway Finland, Lebanon, Syria, the isles of the sea, South Africa, Old Mexico, and elsewhere—women whose devotion to Relief Society and whose contributions to this fund-raising program have helped to make this occasion possible.

My heart reaches out in love and gratitude to Relief Society women the world over for their wonderful response to this great fund-raising program. Relief Society women today are heirs of a great heritage. They have proved themselves worthy of that heritage, demonstrating in their characters the same sterling qualities possessed by the women who have gone before them—faith, devotion to duty, willingness to unselfishly labor and sacrifice that this society might go forward. They have upheld a wonderful tradition and justified the confidence placed in them by the First Presidency, who, when authorizing us to launch the fund-raising program, said: "We have never known the sisters to fail in anything they have undertaken in the past and we feel sure they will not fail in this."

I am confident that those who have gone before us are today rejoicing with us, for this building program is not ours alone; it belongs to the past and it will belong to the future. In this magnificent achievement the women of this day have kept faith with the noble women of the past by opening the way whereby their dream may be brought to fruition. They have nobly and generously fulfilled the great special assignment given to the women of this day, making possible a lasting memorial to the women of this Church. They have set a worthy pattern of loyalty and obedience for Relief Society women of the future, and those who follow after them will remember their efforts and bless them for what they have done.

We stand humbled at the magnitude of what has been accomplished. One year ago when the fund-raising program was launched we recognized it to be an enormous undertaking. Its greatness has in no measure diminished as the year has passed. In fact, as we view it today it assumes even greater proportions than we judged it for a year ago.

The Lord has blessed our efforts, however, unto a full measure of success and we acknowledge his goodness unto us. His spirit has rested upon Relief Society women in all parts of the world, touching their hearts and causing them to want to do their part of this program. Relief Society officers have evidenced superb leadership, secretaries have faithfully and accurately kept record of contributions. Visiting teachers have loyally carried the program into the homes. Relief Society members with generous hearts have given to it their full support. Our appreciation for all that the sisters have done is unbounded. We acknowledge the support and co-operation of the Priesthood authorities: the First Presidency, members of the Council of the Twelve, the Presiding Bishopric—and other General Authorities, the brethren of the General Church Welfare Committee, as well as stake and ward, mission and branch Priesthood authorities. All have rallied to our cause and strengthened our hands.

Only those who have been closely identified with the work incident to the planning and conduct of the program as it has been carried forward in the general office can fully appreciate the great responsibility carried by Sister Marianne Sharp as chairman. The wisdom and judgment required, the ability to anticipate and satisfactorily deal with questions and problems related to the program, the capacity to keep track of numberless details, and the tireless efforts necessary in taking care of limitless and incessant correspondence are beyond description. Yet Sister Sharp has fulfilled all of these requirements with efficiency and with the true spirit of service, in no way being stampeded by the pressures. Sister Sharp has been assisted by a committee of general board members composed of the following sisters: Velma N. Simonsen, Edith S. Elliott, Evon W. Peterson, Mary J. Wilson, and Leone G. Layton. These sisters have been loyal, meeting every requirement made of them throughout the past year.

THE program has been conducted in a dignified manner in keeping with the high standards of the society. Ideals have determined its purposes, and ideals have directed our practices. Sentiment has entered into it, giving depth of feeling and warmth of heart to the program. This achievement represents great monetary value, but not monetary value alone. Herein are represented many intangible values—values of supreme worth—appreciation for the honored position accorded women in the gospel plan; testimony of the divinity of the work of the society; and gratitude for the opportunity given the sisters of the Church to serve through their own great Relief Society; loyalty to leadership; unselfish devotion to a great cause. It is a reflection of the greatness that is inherent within the society.

The achievement represents deep-seated and tender emotions—the love of a daughter for her mother or grandmother; the love of a mother for her daughter; respect and devotion for a friend; the desire to memorialize a loved one whose memory is revered; the wish to reach out and include as a part of this wonderful sisterhood a dear one who may not have availed herself of this blessing.

The dollars which make up the fund represent individual contributions of many types: the providently saved nickels and dimes of sisters to whom these savings meant much; the Christmas gift of one sister, long anticipated in order that some little personal need might be met; the golden wedding gift of another, cherished because a loved one had given it to her; the gift of an aged sister, who, in passing away a few days after making her contribution, rejoiced that she had lived long enough to see this program launched and to participate in it; the young sister not yet old enough to be a Relief Society member, but looking forward to the time when this privilege would be hers. These dollars represent money earned by individual sisters through the labor of their hands—the aprons made, cakes baked and sold; they represent evenings spent in caring for a baby, or days spent in domestic service.
These dollars represent group earnings—earnings which challenged the resourcefulness and ingenuity of the sisters and made heavy demands upon their time and energies—earnings which required hours of hard work. Irrespective of how they were acquired, however, all are an expression of love and appreciation for Relief Society and a willingness to do that which is required for the good of the society.
Just as all of our righteous efforts return to bless us and make us glad, so will the efforts of Relief Society women in meeting this great present-day assignment return to bless them and bring to them joy in full measure. They may experience the satisfaction that comes from a task well done. They may feel assured of the approbation of our Heavenly Father. They may enjoy that deep sense of happiness and contentment that comes from doing one's part in a great and worthy cause. They may be comforted in the knowledge that they have glorified the day in which they have lived and served our beloved society.
My earnest prayer is that the blessings of the Lord will continue with you. May He abundantly bless all those entrusted with responsibility in this program from this time forth. May vision, wisdom, and judgment accompany every step in the planning of the building. May intelligence, honesty, and skill be the constant guides of those who shall labor in its erection. May those who shall administer this sacred fund make sure that each dollar expended is spent wisely and well; may they never lose sight of the manner in which these dollars were accumulated nor the lofty motives that prompted their giving.
May all future efforts be accompanied by the same measure of success and the same degree of joy and satisfaction which we feel today. And, in the words of Sister Blomquist of the Swedish Mission, "when the building is finished may joy and happiness, knowledge and truth, love and charity flow from within its walls to the whole world."
BRAVE HEARTS
Evelyn Fjeldsted

The hopefulness and cheerfulness of brave hearts everywhere—resolved to carry on against great odds—result, at length, in problems solved.