Relief Society Building News

SUCH wonderful support has been given by Relief Societies of foreign missions of the Church to the fund-raising program to erect a Relief Society Building that the general board wishes to share with the readers of the Magazine a few of their expressions of joy and thankfulness at being permitted to have a part in this great Relief Society cause. The following excerpts are typical of the many expressions that have been received:

Every month, we read in Theof the wonderful response you are getting in your Building Fund.
Here in Australia, almost every branch wants to participate in that movement and is collecting funds for that purpose.
I hope that the Lord will bless those who have this project in charge.
May success crown your efforts.

Blanche K. Richmond, President, Australian Mission Relief Society

Please find enclosed the contribution of the Canadian Mission Relief Society toward the Relief Society Building.
We are so happy the Relief Society is going to have its own building.

LaPriel R. Eyre, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society

Until this year conditions have been such that we have hesitated to call on the sisters for anything extra.
But now things look brighter and the sisters are delighted with the opportunity given them to join with the women of the Church in this project.
We are giving each sister the opportunity to contribute what she can, and, in addition, the branches are all planning ways of increasing the fund.

Kate M. Barker, President, French Mission Relief Society

Enclosed you will find our check.
Please credit this amount to the Relief Society of the Mexican Mission as a donation to the Relief Society Building Fund.
Even though the amount is very small, yet the effort made by these sisters ls evidence of their faith and their desire to do something to help.

Mary D. Pierce, President, Mexican Mission Relief Society

Aloha to you and to the members of the general board from the Land of Flowers and liquid sunshine.
Enclosed you will find a check as a contribution from the Central Pacific Mission Relief Society for the Relief Society Building.
Although this amount is small in comparison to most of the checks you receive for this purpose, it is with a great deal of pleasure that I send this contribution from our Relief Society.

Although all of our members are very young, they are very desirous to do their part with the other Relief Society sisters of the Church.
I sincerely hope and pray that your aim will be fully realized in collecting the necessary amount for the Relief Society Building,
and also that our Father in heaven will continue to bless you in your untiring efforts for the education and betterment of the women of the Church.

Georgia H. Weenig, President, Central Pacific Mission Relief Society

The Relief Societies of the South African Mission are very pleased to join the Relief Societies of the Church in doing their part toward the Relief Society Building Fund.
It gives us great pleasure to be able to do this and we send our blessings for your success in this great undertaking.

Ida G. Sharp, President, South African Mission Relief Society

I have waited until now hoping to get our Relief Society organized.
Since the campaign on the Building Fund is drawing to a close, we want our Uruguayan Mission to have the opportunity of making a contribution.
With sincere appreciation for the Magazine and other fine help which we receive from the general board,
and with a prayer for your continued success and happiness in your work, I am,

Corraine S. Williams, President, Uruguayan Mission Relief Society

We, the undersigned, members of the Relief Society in the Swedish Mission, are grateful and happy to be able to do our little bit towards the construction of the new Relief Society Building,
a wonderful monument to the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
May our Father in Heaven bless the planning and erection of this building,
so that when it is finished, joy and happiness, knowledge and truth, love and charity may flow from within its walls to the whole world.

It has been a pleasure to see how the sisters here have rallied to the call,
and how happy they have been in so doing.
They were all delighted to think of having their names placed, with all the others, in the cornerstone of the new building. 

Ethel E.

Blomquist, President, Swedish Mission Relief Society

STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS

Stakes Which Have Sent In 100% Building Quotas:
South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
San Diego Stake (California)
Wells Stake (Utah)
Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming)
Granite Stake (Utah)
North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Emigration Stake (Utah)
Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Rexburg Stake (Idaho)
Nevada Stake (Nevada and Utah)
Utah Stake (Utah)
Seattle Stake (Washington)
South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Juarez Stake (Mexico)
Florida Stake (Florida)
Temple View Stake (Utah)
Bear River Stake (Utah)
Parowan Stake (Utah)
Cedar Stake (Utah)
Liberty Stake (Utah)
Smithfield Stake (Utah)
Sugar House Stake (Utah)
Salt Lake Stake (Utah)
San Luis Stake (Colorado)
Oneida Stake (Idaho)
Tooele Stake (Utah)
San Juan Stake (Utah)
Sevier Stake (Utah)
Grant Stake (Utah)
East Provo Stake (Utah)
American Falls Stake (Idaho)
Oquirrh Stake (Utah)
East Rigby Stake (Idaho)
San Bernardino Stake (California)
Maricopa Stake (Arizona)
San Francisco Stake (California)
Weiser Stake (Idaho)
Oahu Stake (Hawaii)
West Pocatello Stake (Idaho)
Taylor Stake (Canada)
Wayne Stake (Utah)
Long Beach Stake (California)
Nampa Stake (Idaho)
Ben Lomond Stake (Utah)
East Mill Creek Stake (Utah)
West Utah Stake (Utah)
Inglewood Stake (California)
Palo Alto Stake (California)
Lehi Stake (Utah)
Ogden Stake (Utah)
San Fernando Stake (California)
Hillside Stake (Utah)
South Ogden Stake (Utah)

Timpanogos Stake (Utah)
North Rexburg Stake (Idaho)
Mount Ogden Stake (Utah)
Cassia Stake (Idaho)
Palmyra Stake (Utah)
Grantsville Stake (Utah)
Blackfoot Stake (Idaho)
Bonneville Stake (Utah)
Burley Stake (Idaho)
Davis Stake (Utah)
East Cache Stake (Utah)
Highland Stake (Utah)
Hyrum Stake (Utah)
Morgan Stake (Utah)
North Sevier Stake (Utah)
Phoenix Stake (Arizona)
Provo Stake (Utah)
South Summit Stake (Utah)
West Jordan Stake (Utah)
Minidoka Stake (Idaho)
Franklin Stake (Idaho)
Lyman Stake (Wyoming)
Snowflake Stake (Arizona)
South Carolina Stake (South Carolina)
Big Cottonwood Stake (Utah)
Chicago Stake (Illinois)
Portneuf Stake (Idaho)
Reno Stake (Nevada)
Rigby Stake (Idaho)
Benson Stake (Utah)
Lethbridge Stake (Canada)
San Joaquin Stake (California)
Bear Lake Stake (Idaho)
Cottonwood Stake (Utah)
Garfield Stake (Utah)
Gridley Stake (California)
Humboldt Stake (Nevada)
Kanab Stake (Utah)
Montpelier Stake (Idaho)
Mount Jordan Stake (Utah)
New York Stake (New York)
North Carbon Stake (Utah)
Panguitch Stake (Utah)
Saint Joseph Stake (Arizona)
Young Stake (New Mexico)
Orem Stake (Utah)
Star Valley Stake (Wyoming)
Deseret Stake (Utah)
Bannock Stake (Idaho)
Gunnison Stake (Utah)
Logan Stake (Utah)
Mount Logan Stake (Utah)
North Box Elder Stake (Utah)
North Sanpete Stake (Utah)
Emery Stake (Utah)
Sharon Stake (Utah)
Southern Arizona Stake (Arizona)
Pioneer Stake (Utah)
East Jordan Stake (Utah)
Pocatello Stake (Idaho)
Lake View Stake (Utah)
Saint Johns Stake (Arizona)
South Sanpete Stake (Utah)
Alpine Stake (Utah)
North Jordan Stake (Utah)
Park Stake (Utah)
Ensign Stake (Utah)
Riverside Stake (Utah)
Union Stake (Oregon)
North Davis Stake (Utah)
Alberta Stake (Canada)
Beaver Stake (Utah)
Boise Stake (Idaho)
Cache Stake (Utah)
Idaho Stake (Idaho)
Los Angeles Stake (California)
Malad Stake (Idaho)
Mount Graham Stake (Arizona)
Portland Stake (Oregon)
Shelley Stake (Idaho)
South Salt Lake Stake (Utah)
South Sevier Stake (Utah)
Uintah Stake (Utah)
Yellowstone Stake (Idaho)
Zion Park Stake (Utah)
Berkeley Stake (California)
Saint George Stake (Utah)
Carbon Stake (Utah)
Roosevelt Stake (Utah)
Nebo Stake (Utah)
Denver Stake (Colorado)
Duchesne Stake (Utah)
Juab Stake (Utah)
Kolob Stake (Utah)
Lost River Stake (Idaho)
Moapa Stake (Nevada)
Moon Lake Stake (Utah)
North Weber Stake (Utah)
Nevada Stake (Nevada)
Raft River Stake (Idaho)
South Box Elder Stake (Utah)
South Davis Stake (Utah)
Summit Stake (Utah)
Wasatch Stake (Utah)
Washington Stake (D.C., Md., Va., and Pa.)
Weber Stake (Utah)
Blaine Stake (Idaho)
Sacramento Stake (California)
Twin Falls Stake (Idaho)
Farr West Stake (Utah)
Millard Stake (Utah)
Spokane Stake (Washington)
Oakland Stake (California)

RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS

733

MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS

Northern California Mission
Eastern States Mission
Samoan Mission
Hawaiian Mission
Palestine-Syrian Mission
Tongan Mission
New Zealand Mission
Finnish Mission
Western States Mission
East Central States Mission
Central Pacific Mission
Northern States Mission
California Mission
Swedish Mission
Navajo-Zuni Mission
South African Mission
Northwestern States Mission
Central States Mission
Texas-Louisiana Mission
Spanish-American Mission
Canadian Mission
Western Canadian Mission
Mexican Mission
North Central States Mission
Australian Mission
Uruguayan Mission
Southern States Mission
Central States Mission
Tahitian Mission
New England Mission
French Mission
Central Atlantic States Mission

WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the October Magazine, and prior to October 7, 1948)

Adams Ward, Los Angeles
Alameda Ward, Oakland
Albion Ward, Raft River
Alexandria Ward, Washington
Allison Branch, Young
Alpine Ward, Alpine
Alton Ward, Kanab
Altonah Ward, Moon Lake
American Fork Third Ward, Alpine
American Fork Sixth Ward, Alpine
Anchorage Branch, North Davis
Annabella Ward, South Sevier
Arco Ward, Lost River
Arlington Ward, Washington
Axtell Ward, Gunnison
Aztec Branch, Young
Baker Ward, Union
Bancroft Ward, Idaho
Bear River Ward, North Box Elder
Beazer Ward, Alberta
Belfry Branch, Big Horn
Benjamin Ward, Nebo
Bennion Ward, North Jordan
Beverly Hills Ward, Los Angeles
Bloomington Ward, Bear Lake
Bluebell Ward, Moon Lake
Boise Fourth Ward, Boise
Bonanza Branch, Uintah
Bonner's Ferry Branch, Spokane
Boulder Ward, Garfield
Bountiful Third Ward, South Davis
Bountiful Fifth Ward, South Davis
Brigham Third Ward, North Box Elder
Brigham Fourth Ward, North Box Elder
Brigham Seventh Ward, North Box Elder
Brigham Eighth Ward, North Box Elder
Brigham City Second Ward, South Box Elder
Brigham City Fifth Ward, South Box Elder
Brigham City Sixth Ward, South Box Elder
Buhl Ward, Twin Falls
Byron Ward, Big Horn
Cannon Ward, Pioneer
Cannonville Ward, Panguitch
Carbonville Ward, North Carbon
Cardston Second Ward, Alberta
Cardston Third Ward, Alberta
Carlin Ward, Humboldt
Castle Gate Ward, North Carbon
Center Ward, Riverside
Centerfield Ward, Gunnison
Central Ward, Bannock
Challis Ward, Lost River
Charleston Ward, Moapa
Cherry Creek Ward, Malad
Chester Ward, Yellowstone
Chesterfield Ward, Idaho
Cheyenne Ward, Denver
Clearfield First Ward, North Davis
Clearfield Second Ward, North Davis
Cleveland Ward, Emery
Clifton-Morenci Branch, Mt. Graham
Clinton Ward, Lake View
Coalville Ward, Summit
Columbia Branch, Carbon

734:
Colville Branch, Spokane
Conda Ward, Idaho
Corrine Ward, North Box Elder
Cortez Branch, Young
Davis Ward, Uintah
Delta First Ward, Deseret
Delta Second Ward, Deseret
Delta Third Ward, Deseret
Denver Second Ward, Denver
Deseret Ward, Deseret
Dimond Ward, Oakland
Dingle Ward, Montpelier
Douglas Ward, Southern Arizona
Draper First Ward, Mount Jordan
Eagar Ward, St.

Johns East Ensign Ward, Ensign East Orange Ward, New York Echo Branch, Summit Edison Ward, Pioneer Egin Bench Ward, Yellowstone Elba Ward, Raft River Elko Ward, Humboldt Elmhurst Ward, Oakland Elmo Ward, Emery Elsinore Ward, South Sevier Emery Ward, Emery Emigration Ward, Park Englewood Ward, Denver Evanston First Ward, Woodruff Evanston Second Ward, Woodruff Evanston Third Ward, Woodruff Fairview Ward, Star Valley Fairview Ward, Washington Fairview South Ward, North Sanpete Farmington Ward, Young Farnum Ward, Yellowstone Filer Branch, Twin Falls Fillmore First Ward, Millard Fillmore Second Ward, Millard Fillmore Third Ward, Millard Firth Ward, Shelley Flowell Ward, Millard Fort Collins Branch, Denver Franklin Ward, Mount Graham Freedom Branch, Moroni Genola Ward, Santaquin-Tintic Gila Branch, Mount Graham Glendale Ward, Kanab Glenwood Ward, Alberta Goshen Ward, Shelley Grace Ward, Bannock Grand View Ward, Sharon Granger First Ward, North Jordan Granger Second Ward, North Jordan Granite Ward, Mount Jordan Grant Ward, Cottonwood Grass Valley Ward, Gridley Gray's Lake Ward, Idaho Grouse Creek Ward, North Weber Grover Ward, Star Valley Gunnison Ward, Gunnison Hailey Ward, Blaine Halfway Branch, Union Hamilton Ward, Gunnison Hanna Ward, Duchesne Harper Ward, North Box Elder Hartley Ward, Alberta Hatch Ward, Panguitch Hayward Ward, Oakland Helper Ward, North Carbon Heman Ward, Yellowstone Hiawatha Ward, Carbon Highland Ward, Alpine Hinckley Ward, Deseret Holbrook Ward, Malad Hollywood Ward, Los Angeles Hooper Second Ward, Lake View Hunter Ward, North Jordan Huntington Ward, Emery Huntington Second Ward, Emery Hurricane North Ward, Zion Park Hurricane South Ward, Zion Park Imbler Ward, Union Inkom Ward, Pocatello Jewett Branch, Young Kanosh Ward, Millard Kenilworth Branch, North Carbon Kimball Ward, Shelley Kimberly Ward, Twin Falls Lago Ward, Bannock La Grande First Ward, Union La Grande Second Ward, Union Lake View Ward, Lake View Lapoint Ward, Uintah La Verkin Ward, Zion Park Layton Ward, Mount Graham Layton First Ward, North Davis Layton Second Ward, North Davis Leavitt Ward, Alberta Lebanon Branch, Mount Graham LeGrand Ward, Park Leslie Ward, Lost River Levan Ward, Juab Lewiston Ward, Spokane Liberty Ward, Bear Lake Logan Ninth Ward, Cache Logan Twelfth Ward, Logan Logan Fifteenth Ward, Cache Lomond View Ward, Farr West Lovell West Ward, Big Horn Lovelock Branch, Reno Lund Ward, Idaho Lynndyl Ward, Deseret Malad First Ward, Malad Malad Third Ward, Malad Malta Ward, Raft River Manhattan Ward, New York Manti Center Ward, South Sanpete Manti North Ward, South Sanpete Manti South Ward, South Sanpete Mapleton Ward, Kolob Marriott Ward, Farr West Martinez Ward, Berkeley Maxwell Park Ward, Oakland Mayfield Ward, Gunnison Meadow Ward, Millard Mendon Ward, Logan Mesquite Ward, Moapa Midvale Second Ward, East Jordan Midway Second Ward, Wasatch Milburn Ward, North Sanpete Millcreek Ward, Cottonwood Miller Ward, South Salt Lake Minersville Ward, Beaver Mona Ward, Juab Montpelier Second Ward, Montpelier Montwell Ward, Roosevelt Moore Ward, Lost River Moroni East Ward, Moroni Mount Emmons Ward, Moon Lake Mount Pleasant North Ward, North Sanpete Mountain Home Ward, Moon Lake Mountain View Ward, Alberta Murray First Ward, Cottonwood Murray Second Ward, Cottonwood Nephi First Ward, Juab Nephi Second Ward, Juab Nephi Third Ward, Juab North Eighteenth Ward, Ensign North Spokane Ward, Spokane Oak City Ward, Deseret Oceanside Branch, New York Ogden First Ward, Weber Ogden Second Ward, Weber Ogden Eleventh Ward, Weber Ogden Fifteenth Ward, Farr West Ogden Sixteenth Ward, North Weber Ogden Twenty-second Ward, Weber Panguitch North Ward, Panguitch Park Ward, Nebo Parker Ward, Yellowstone Payson First Ward, Nebo Payson Second Ward, Nebo Payson Third Ward, Nebo Payson Fourth Ward, Nebo Perry Ward, South Box Elder Pershing Branch, Alberta Pima Ward, St. Joseph Plain City Ward, Farr West Pleasant View Ward, Malad Poplar Grove Ward, Pioneer Portage Ward, Malad Powell Branch, Big Horn Price First Ward, Carbon Price Fourth Ward, Carbon Providence First Ward, Mount Logan Providence Second Ward, Mount Logan Pueblo Ward, Denver Queens Ward, New York Randlett Ward, Roosevelt Redmesa Ward, Young Richrield Ward, Blaine Riverdale Ward, Zion Park Rockport Branch, Summit Rockville Ward, Zion Park Roseville Ward, Sacramento Roy Ward, Lake View Ruth Ward, Nevada Sacramento Ward, Sacramento St. Anthony First Ward, Yellowstone St. Anthony Second Ward, Yellowstone St. Anthony Third Ward, Yellowstone St. George First Ward, St. George St. George Second Ward, St. George St. George Third Ward, St. George St. George Fifth Ward, St. George St. Helens Branch, Portland Saint John Ward, Malad Saint Johns Ward, St. Johns Salem Ward, Portland Salmon Ward, Lost River Samaria Ward, Malad Sandpoint Branch, Spokane Sandy First Ward, Mount Jordan Sandy Third Ward, Mount Jordan Scipio Ward, Millard Sharon Ward, Orem Slaterville Ward, Farr West South Bountiful Ward, South Davis South Grant Ward, Cottonwood Spring Glen Ward, North Carbon Spring Lake Ward, Nebo Springville First Ward, Kolob Springville Second Ward, Kolob Springville Fifth Ward, Kolob Springville Seventh Ward, Kolob Springville Eighth Ward, Kolob Springville Ninth Ward, Kolob Standardville Branch, North Carbon Sterling Ward, South Sanpete Storrs Ward, North Carbon Sugarville Ward, Deseret Sunset Ward, North Davis Sutherland Ward, Deseret % Syracuse Ward, North Davis Tabiona Ward, Duchesne Talmage Ward, Moon Lake Taylorville Ward, Alberta Thatcher Ward, St. Joseph Thayne Ward, Star Valley Toquerville Ward, Zion Park Tridell Ward, Uintah Tucson Ward, Southern Arizona Turnerville Branch, Star Valley Twenty-fifth Ward, Pioneer Twenty-sixth Ward, Pioneer Twenty-eighth Ward, Riverside Twenty-ninth Ward, Riverside Union Ward, Union Valley Center Ward, Cottonwood Vermont Ward, Orem Wallowa Branch, Union Wallsburg Ward, Wasatch Washington Terrace Branch, Weber Wells Ward, Humboldt Wendell Ward, Blaine Westchester Branch, New York West Point Ward, North Davis Whiterocks Branch, Uintah Willard Ward, South Box Elder Winnemucca Ward, Humboldt Woodruff Ward, Malad BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the October Magazine, and prior to October 7, 1948) Abbeville Branch, Southern States Albany Branch, Texas-Louisiana Alexandria Branch, Texas-Louisiana Amarillo Branch, Texas-Louisiana Ardmore Branch, Central States Athens Branch, Southern States Atlanta Branch, Southern States Auburn Branch, Northwestern States Austin Branch, Texas-Louisiana Back Creek Branch, Central Atlantic States Bay City Branch, Texas-Louisiana Baytown Branch, Texas-Louisiana Bennettsville Branch, Southern States Bergland Branch, North Central States Billings Branch, North Central States Birmingham Branch, Southern States Bloomington Branch, Northern States Boonville Branch, Southern States Brownsville Branch, Spanish-American Brunswick Branch, Southern States Buena Vista Branch, Central Atlantic States Cambridge Branch, New England Camden Branch, Southern States Carlsbad Branch, Spanish-American Carlsbad Branch, Western States Catawaba Branch, Southern States Charlottesville Branch, Central Atlantic States Catham Branch, Canadian Columbus Branch, Southern States *Columbus Branch, Southern States Cornwall Branch, Canadian *There are two Columbus Branches in Southern States Mission.

Cottage Grove Branch, Northwestern States
Council Bluffs Branch, Western States
Coushatta Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Covington Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Creston Branch, Western Canadian
Cuautitlan Branch, Mexican
Dallas Branch, Northwestern States
Danville Branch, Central Atlantic States
Deer Lodge Branch, Northwestern States
Del Rio Branch, Spanish-American
Denmark Branch, Southern States
Douglas Branch, Southern States
Duncan Branch, Central States
Durham Branch, Central Atlantic States
East Point Branch, Southern States
Edmonton Branch, Western Canadian
El Dorado Branch, Central States
Empire Branch, Southern States
Ermita Branch, Mexican
Fairbault Branch, North Central States
Farmerville Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Fort Frances Branch, North Central States
Fayetteville Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Gavle Branch, Swedish
Genola Branch, Southern States
Gettysburg Branch, North Central States
Gibson Branch, Southern States
Goldsboro Branch, Central Atlantic States
Gretna Branch, Central Atlantic States
Halsingborg Branch, Swedish
Hamilton Branch, Canadian
Hammond Branch, Texas-Louisiana
RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 737
Hanapepe Branch, Central Pacific
Hattiesburg Branch, Southern States
High River Branch, Western Canadian
Hilo Branch, Central Pacific
Hoges Store Branch, Central Atlantic States
Jackson Branch, Southern States
Jonesboro Branch, Central States
Kalihi Branch, Central Pacific
Kapaa Branch, Central Pacific
Kelsey Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Kitchener Branch, Canadian
Lafayette Branch, Northern States
Lake Charles, Texas-Louisiana
Lanakila Branch, Central Pacific
Liberty Branch, Southern States
Little Rock Branch, Central States
Livingston Branch, Northwestern States
London Branch, Canadian
Longview Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Los Angeles Branch, Spanish-American
Macon Branch, Southern States
McAllen Branch, Spanish-American
McCalla Branch, Southern States
Meridian Branch, Southern States
Miles City Branch, North Central States
Milledgeville Branch, Southern States
Mission Branch, Central Pacific
Missoula Branch, Central Pacific
Missoula Branch, Northwestern States
Montgomery Branch, Southern States
Montreal Branch, Canadian
Moultrie Branch, Southern States
Mount Zion Branch, Central Atlantic States
Myrtle Beach Branch, Southern States
Nahunta Branch, Central Atlantic States
New Bedford Branch, New England
New Smyrna Branch, Southern States
New Westminster Branch, Western Canadian
Ocala Branch, Southern States
Olive Branch, Southern States
Oregon City Branch, Northwestern States
Oshawa Branch, Canadian
Ottawa Branch, Canadian
Ozumba Branch, Mexican
Pachuca Branch, Mexican
Panama City Branch, Southern States
Perry Branch, Southern States
Phoenix Branch, Spanish-American
Piedras Negras Branch, Mexican
Portland Branch, New England
Providence Branch, New England
Quitman Branch, Southern States
Redmond Branch, Northwestern States
Red Star Branch, Southern States
Reedsport Branch, Northwestern States
Regina Branch, Western Canadian
Ridgeland Branch, Southern States
Rio Grande Valley Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Rock Hills Branch, Southern States
Rocky Mount Branch, Central Atlantic States
Roanoke Branch, Central Atlantic States
Rosebury Branch, Northwestern States
Roswell Branch, Spanish-American
St. Catharines Branch, Canadian
Saint Louis Branch, Central States
San Diego Branch, Spanish-American
Santiago Branch, Mexican
Sarah Branch, Southern States
Sarnia Branch, Canadian
Saskatoon Branch, Western Canadian
Seminary Branch, Southern States
Shelby Branch, Northwestern States
Simcoe Branch, Canadian
Springfield Branch, Central States
Springhead Branch, Southern States
Stratford Branch, Canadian
Sumatra Branch, North Central States
Sun Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Sylacauga Branch, Southern States
Tallahassee Branch, Southern States
Tampa Branch, Southern States
Taos Branch, Spanish-American
Texarkana Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Toluca Branch, Mexico
Topeka Branch, Central States
Toronto Branch, Canadian
Tower Branch, North Central States
Vallecitos Branch, Spanish-American
Vernonia Branch, Northwestern States
Victoria Branch, Western Canadian
Vidor Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Wahiawa Branch, Central Pacific
Wailuku Branch, Central Pacific
White Sulphur Springs Branch, Central Atlantic States
Wichita Branch, Central States
Willmar Branch, North Central States
Wilmington Branch, Central Atlantic States
Windsor Branch, Canadian
Winnifield Branch, Texas-Louisiana
Winnipeg Branch, North Central States
Winona Branch, Central States
Winter Haven Branch, Southern States

Seasoning Margery S. Stewart snowy plains of Wyoming. John Fenton leaned against the window, staring unseeingly at the endless wastes. How could a returning missionary not look like a returning missionary? He fished in his pocket for Susan's letter. He held it in his hands but did not read it. He knew it off by heart.

The train fled through the Darling, I've planned this Thanksgiving. It has to be. I've asked all my friends from school and some of yours, don't come home all stirred up about things. I just want to love you and some of them just don't understand. John grinned at Clara Wells, who sat opposite him. She was returning from her mission in the Eastern States.

"How do returning missionaries look, Sister Wells?" he demanded.

Clara Wells looked at the letter in his hand. "So that's what she said. Well... How do I look?"

"Nice," John said thoughtfully, "and sort of shining."

"Do I?" She nodded her smooth brown head. "Well, I've had enough experiences in the last two years to keep me shining for a lifetime." She looked at him critically. "You look very nice, too, tall and dark, and purposeful... And something else, indefinable. Don't let the world rob you of it."

The porter came through calling, "Rock Springs... Rock Springs, five minutes 'Home?' Clara's voice wavered.

On her coat. Have to look after Maury McClaughlin from now on." "Maury McClaughlin!" John demanded. "That wild Scot?" Clara laughed. "I know she's been a handful. But it's that impulsive Curiosity of hers. She couldn't help getting lost in Chicago. After all the things you were up against in the British Mission, you ought to be able to handle a seventeen-year-old youngster," "But she's not just any youngster," John stated flatly. "I can't do it."

"You have to do it," Clara pointed out reasonably. "You're the only missionary left. It's just a few hours to Salt Lake. Her aunt will be at the station." The door was flung open at the back of the car.

"Sister Wells," a clear voice shrieked. "Your station it is," John pulled his neck into his collar as the quick footsteps rushed down the aisle, Maury McClaughlin brushed past him and flung herself into Clara's arms. "Oh, it's lost I will be with you gone! Not to see your bonny face or hear your voice!" Maury's own voice rose despairingly.

John Fenton's mouth twitched as he watched the girl burrow her face into Clara's shoulder. Maury's bright red hair shimmered like silk. She was a tall girl and very slender. She lifted her face.

Her eyes were a deep, gemlike blue. She owned the freckled skin of the red-haired. Her gestures were dramatic and sincere and terribly young. "You've been an angel to me, that you have!" Maury possessed a radiance that made John feel he was in the path of a prairie fire.

Clara kissed Maury. "You have a big job ahead of you, dear, making a home and a place for your mother and father and your small sisters. But you can do it. You'll have them with you in no time at all. I only wish I could be close enough to help."

"But you've been so good to me!" Maury wailed. "And I've been a grief to you. That I have."

"Nonsense." Clara reached for her bags. "Now you stay close to Elder Fenton and don't leave his side at any station." "Aye, that I won't," vowed Maury passionately. She turned to John. "I promise with my hand on my heart not to give you a moment's worry."

John bit back the chuckle. He knotted his brows firmly. "You'll not be getting off at any station. Own sister to understand?" She asked reluctantly, "Not even if I see an Indian?"

"No," said John, "and please don't scream when you see another cowboy. It's...

It's embarrassing." They stood on the train platform and watched Clara step into the circle of joyous friends and relatives, who hugged her furiously one after another, their faces wet with tears. Clara waved her hand at John and Maury as the train pulled away. He put his arms around an elderly, gray-haired woman, who made him think of his own mother. The train gathered speed. John felt a wild tug of homesickness. He wanted to get off and push the cars. They seemed to move with such deliberate pace. Maury pulled at his sleeve. "We'd better go." "Of whom do you think when you look like that?" "Someone very nice?" "The nicest," John agreed. "I'm just hoping she won't have changed her mind about me. I was mighty lucky to get her." For an instant, the light seemed to vanish from Maury's face, but she slid into the seat beside him and folded her hands demurely on her lap. "Susan Meredith, isn't it? Sister Wells told me you are engaged to marry her," John Fenton stared ahead. He saw Susan's small, delicate face, her dark curling hair, her competent, assured manner. Susan knew exactly what she wanted from life. He still found it hard to believe that she had included him in her plans, that she was willing to marry him when she could have so many others. "There was a small rustling beside him. John turned. Maury was sitting quietly, her hands in her lap, her eyes on his face. "Is it so large then, the city?" she asked. "You recall MacBrogan town. I shall be quite lost in a large place," 740 John grinned ruefully, recalling the Chicago episode. "I think I should warn the city fathers that you're coming." He sobered. "But I do remember MacBrogan town, the good times we had there. I remember the first night we came, two missionaries cold, hungry, and tired, and how your father took us in and fed us and listened to us." Maury's eyes grew large and brilliant. "Always it was so. The best for the poor who had no roof or cover. That was my father all his life long." "He's a wonderful man," John patted her hand. "It won't be long. You'll get a fine job and work and save, and your family will be saving too, and then you'll be together, perhaps next Thanksgiving." She smoothed the darned place in her plaid skirt. "Tell me then about this Thanksgiving. I don't understand." John chuckled. "It's a wonderful day. Everybody gets a turkey or goose and calls in all the relatives and friends. Why, in St. George the women start getting ready two weeks ahead." He took a deep breath. "Gosh! I can almost smell the dinner now, mince and apple pies, turkey browning." Maury sighed in wonder and delight. She slid down in the seat. "So many days for just fun here in America. I love it. In the war we were so often hungry, never until on the Queen Mary was I full—here." She pressed thin hands over her stomach. John Fenton felt a quick pity, remembering the pinched faces of the people he had left behind, their austere tables, their uncomplaining relief society. But he gunned down on her, remembering. "I'll never forget the look on the waiter's face when he saw you stow away your third breakfast on that ship. I think you set a record." He laughed at her quick blush. "Never mind, your aunt will no doubt have a marvelous meal waiting, then you'll find out about Thanksgiving." But her white hands pressed in as though the pain persisted still. "Where will you be, Elder Fenton?" "With Susan. She promised me a fabulous dinner. Then my brother is driving up to take me down to St. George, and I'll have another celebration," "Will Susan go with you?" He shook his head. "She goes to the University. There are so many things going on at Thanksgiving parties... She may come later," "She must be very beautiful?" "She is!" She smoothed her cheek. "Would—would anyone find me... fair?" John regarded her critically, "There are a lot of men who really like red hair. Oh, you'll get married all right to a fine young man, no doubt." Her small face tightened. Her lower lip quivered. "That I'll not!" she said tartly and rose. She tossed her flaming hair, "I shall stay unmarried forever and ever, aye, that I will." Now what was wrong with her? John turned to watch her swinging, determined stride down the aisle. Suddenly, in spite of her height, she seemed very small and alone, an alien in a strange land. The porter came. "A telegram for Miss McClaughlin, Sir." SEASONING
741
'I'll take it," John went in search of her. He found her two cars down, the center of an admiring group who pleaded for more details of her beloved Scotland. "A telegram?" She rose to her feet and followed him back to their car. "Now who would be spending of their good money?" John coughed to hide his laughter. "Open it and see." She obeyed him. Her eyes flashed across the lines. "Ah, 'tis not as bad as I feared." John took the extended telegram. It was from her aunt. Sorry. Will not be at station. Neil sick in San Francisco. Key in mail box. Love, Aunt Nora. "I'm sorry," John handed the telegram back. Compassion shook him, remembering her parting from her loved ones, the lonely journey. She should be welcomed with banners and drums. Suddenly, he turned. Of course! She could come along to Susan's dinner. It would take the edge off the loneliness. He started to tell her. No. He would ask Susan to ask her. That would make the invitation warmer, more welcoming. The hours inched away. John's impatience mounted with every mile. Maury sat beside him, pale and still with excitement. The early dusk had settled and the lights had been turned on. In their glow her hair gleamed like bright gold. John thought of the moors she had left behind, the little cottage that housed her warm, friendly family. He found himself saying a prayer for her, silently, that she would find joy in the city for which she had sacrificed so much. At last, after incredible waiting, the porter came through, calling, "Salt Lake City, Salt Lake City . . ." John drank in the name. His heart seemed to crowd in his throat, making it difficult to breathe. Maury jumped to her feet. "Did you hear, Elder Fenton! Salt Lake City, the man said. It's here! It's really here!" She reached for her shabby green coat. "Oh, if only I had someone of my own. Someone to share this moment. It is the greatest of my life. I know it." John handed her hat to her. She surveyed it ruefully. "I'm afraid I don't look very grand." John looked down at her flushed, shining face, her brilliant eyes. His heart climbed back in his throat. He grinned. "With that hair you couldn't look any way but grand. Queen's color.

That's what my mother calls it. We're stopping! He went before her down the aisle, but so many people were ahead of him that he was stalled to one impatient step at a time. He looked through the windows. Suddenly he saw Susan, standing in the center of a group of friends. Her thin face was rosy with cold and excitement. She looked very smart in her beaver coat with the brown hat to match. Her dark hair had been cut short. It curled around her face. John recognized one or two of the group around her, girls he had known from the University. Gladness welled up in him until he could hardly bear the weight of it. Maury stumbled against him. "Just wait until you meet them," he told her. "You'll feel as much at home as if you sat on a moor." At last the crowd thinned. I stepped down. Susan ran to him, hands outstretched. "John, darling! How handsome you look." She flung back her head for his kiss. "Come and meet everyone. Mother put dinner at nine so you'll have plenty of time to make an impression." John laughed at her flow of words. "Susan, you haven't changed either. Bossing me around just like always." He kissed her again and put his arm around her while she made the introductions. He shook hands with them all. His eyes searched theirs. It was a habit he had acquired in the mission field. In all of them he found the blank, uncomprehending stare of the stranger. "What a lovely place!" Even the smoke-grimed platform and the black, ugly gates had the beauty of familiarity. Susan laughed. "Now you do sound just like a missionary. Oh, John, it's been hideous with you gone. I want to catch up on all the fun we've missed." She stopped short. "John? That girl? She keeps looking at you?" Contrition seized him. Maury. He had forgotten her. He turned. Maury was standing some distance away, a slim, waiting figure, something patient and forlorn about her. John took Susan's arm. "Come and meet her. She's a convert from Scotland. Darling, would you do me a favor and ask her to your dinner?" He stumbled over words in his haste to tell of the aunt who could not come, of Maury's family in Scotland. Susan drew back, impatience on her pretty face. "John! I couldn't possibly ask her! Mother has stretched the table to its last inch. It would ruin the decorations." "But Susan, we just have to ask her. This is her first night in this place. She hasn't a soul. It's Thanksgiving. Please, Susan, for me?" Susan shook her head. "John, you'll never learn. Things just aren't done that way. I'll ask her some other time. We'll put her in a cab. You'll see, she will be perfectly all right." Maury looked up and saw them coming toward her. John winced away from the blinding relief in her smile. He turned to Susan. "I can't just put her in a cab. That's what we did in Chicago. That's why we missed our train. Ten missionaries spent a day looking for her." "Where on earth was she?" "The cab driver's wife was having a baby, no one to help her take care of the children. Maury thought it would just take an hour or so to help out, and stayed eighteen hours." "Good heavens!" Susan's lip curled. "Where do you find your friends?" John said stubbornly, "I don't have time to argue now. You take your friends and go on back to the house. I'll see that Maury gets to her aunt's house in one piece." He introduced the two girls. He felt an instant's wonder. It must be Maury's bright hair, but something about her made Susan seem small and drab and meager. "I'm going to take you home," he explained to Maury. She looked from him to Susan. "Oh, but the dinner, Elder Fenton. I couldna' take you away." Susan smiled widely. "It's all tight, Miss McClaughlin. He can come later, Goodbye now, John." "Well... If you're verry sure..." Maury's Scotch burr was never more in evidence. John reached for her bags. Watched the others leave, now let's find a cab." A cab whisked away just as they reached the street. They hesitated. Maury looked about her. She took a deep breath, "Is the city then so near?" "Just a few minutes walk," John assured her, "Would you...," she swallowed, "would you spare the time? I could come for my bags tomorrow, have such a hunger, here." She pressed her hands over her breast, "I have a hunger to see it all... The Temple... The Eagle Gate." The passionate longing in her voice made a lump rise in John's throat. "Of course we will. Wait here a moment." The Temple grounds were closed. They peered through the gates. The floodlights made a shower of gold on the stay stones. Moroni stood in golden relief against the dark blue of the night sky. Maury's face, he whispered, "It's better than I dreamed," John said huskily, "It's better than I remembered." They walked to the Eagle Gate and back, to stop and stare like any pair of tourists at the Lion House 743 the statue of Brigham Young, the dazzling beauty of Main Street after dark. John found that he had been walking for a long time. "Gosh, girl! You're hungry!" "That I am!" The cafe was small, cheerful, and bright. John studied the menu. "Turkey, of course?" "Turkey?" she lifted inquiring brows, "Every true American has to have a slice of turkey inside him. On Thanksgiving day," She sighed and slipped out of her shabby green coat. "Oh, this wonderful America. I think this day was made for me. A Thanksgiving day and my own heart so full it can hardly lift her eyes to his. Just think what I have to be thankful for this day... The missionaries coming... My father urging us all to listen. Something new and strange and beautiful coming into our lives... and now, look at me here!" She sat up taller. "A Latter-day Saint in the Promised Land." John looked at her for a long moment and pieces of a puzzle fell into place. There was something in her sick and sure and unashamed that made his own heart home shine before him in all their hard work and struggle and triumph. Don't let the world Tob you, Sister Wells had said. (Continued on page 759) "For THE Rights OF THE Women OF Zion AND THF Rights OF THE WOMEN oF ALL Nations." TRIALS AND HAPPINESS When all is beautiful, and bright and fair, And tranquil flows the pleasant stream of life; We may forget its sorrow, toil or care, Perchance e'en bitterness, and pain, and strife. Some precious lessons, trials may have taught; We may be purer, wiser and more just. Some beauty in our souls may have been wrought. Through faith in God, obedience, and trust, Emmeline B. Wells THE HOME OF CHILDHOOD.

A few pictures, a little pains taken to make
the furniture look bright and new, and above everything else rooms kept neat and tidy.
Plenty of sunshine and fresh air makes a house wholesome and the inmates better
natured. Let the children enjoy the parlor as well as the grown people. Never shut
the children out from any place because it is too good for them; they will be more
refined and cultured if they are taught how to handle things that are valuable and
pretty, than if they are always denied the pleasure. Childhood's hours pass quickly
enough, and the cares and perplexities of life bring about many changes in one's feelings
and circumstances, therefore it seems wise and prudent to fortify our children by a
generous supply of good nature, and help them to cultivate all the higher and holier
attributes of the mind. � ^Aunt Em.

IS MEMORY IMMORTAL?
Is memory immortal? Aye, ever and e'er;
All that life hath e'er known, or forgotten, is here
Plainly writ in the book of the soul, where we read
Of the heart's every hope, of the past�s every deed. O.F. Whitney

ONEIDA STAKE: The Relief Society of the Oneida Stake held their annual
conference at Franklin, Sept. 9, 1888, Pres. Elizabeth Fox presiding. Sister Richards
felt to exhort us to lay aside all pride, "and train the minds of our children; not spend
so much time in adorning their body, but adorn their minds with truth and virtue and
they will bless you in your old age; cherish charity, and learn forgiveness to all men and
the Lord will forgive whom he will. It is the duty of the Relief Society to administer
to the needs of the poor." � Annie Hatch, Sec.

MISCELLANEOUS: Thought engenders thought. Place one idea on paper, another
will follow it, and still another, until you have written a page. You cannot fathom
your mind. There is a well of thought there which has no bottom. The more you
draw from it, the more clear and fruitful will it be. If you neglect to think for yourself
and use other people's thoughts, giving them utterance only, you will never know
what you are capable of. At first your ideas may come out in lumps, homely and shapeless;
but no matter; time and perseverance will arrange and polish them. Learn to think
and you will learn to write; the more you think, the better you will express your ideas.
� Exchange Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon

THANKSGIVING Day inevitably turns our thoughts backward to the sturdy character of our Pilgrim Fathers. They are literally the forefathers of many Latter-day Saint men and women, as was remarked by a noted genealogist visiting in Salt Lake City some years ago. The Rich family, who have contributed much to the strength of the Church, are descendants of the Captain Rich who owned and piloted the Mayflower on the voyage when it carried the first Pilgrims to American shores.

THE Olympic Games indicate that Fanny Blankers-Koen, thirty, a Dutch mother and housewife, is the world's greatest woman athlete. She easily won four first places in the games: the eighty-meter women's hurdles, in which she established a new world record of eleven and two-tenths seconds; the 100-meter and 200-meter women's sprints; and the anchor in the 400-meter women's relay. She already holds the world record for the women's broad jump, for which she could not compete this time as it was held at the same time as one of the events in which she was contending. Had she won this in the Games, she would have been the only known athlete since the dawn of the Olympic Games to win five first places.

Our American, Babe Didrikson, won enormous prestige for taking two first places and one second in the 1936 Olympics.

WILHELMINA, now self-titled dowager princess of the Netherlands, abdicated the throne of the Netherlands and the Dutch Empire September 4, in favor of her daughter Juliana. It was Wilhelmina's sixty-eighth birthday and the fiftieth anniversary of her coronation. Her reign has been marked by thrift, simplicity, a close relationship with her people, which was a distinct royal innovation, a shrewd insight into affairs of state, and the courage to follow the path she believed right, and in some cases humane, in the face of general opposition. She is the sole survivor of seventeen monarchs contemporary with her first days as queen. Five only wore their crowns until their deaths.

Wilhelmina's hobbies have been bicycling, skating, horseback riding, walking in the woods, and painting. Two days after her mother's abdication, Juliana became queen of the Netherlands at an investiture service at Niewe Kerk, the church being now connected with the royal palace. Juliana is the mother of four daughters.

Page 745
Editorial Vol. 35 November 1948 No. 11

THANKSGIVING for Riches of the Spirit
Thanksgiving Day, Latter-day Saints will gather with their
loved ones around tables loaded
with an abundance of food. Crisp
stalks of celery will gleam among
dark-skinned olives; savory dressing
will be spooned out of the golden
turkey; mounds of mashed potatoes
hidden under a yellow coating of
butter will vie with tender green
peas and bright red pickled beets to
make a kaleidoscope of colors against
the heavy linen damask highlighted
with crystal and silver. Each member
of the family will reverently bow
his head and with grateful heart return
thanks to his Father in heaven
for the multiplicity of material blessings
he enjoys. There may come
also into his mind's eye, in contrast,
a picture of a humble pioneer home
where food was scarce, table linen
and eating utensils of the rudest,
and luxuries nonexistent. And at
the contrast again there may arise
in the breast of the present-day
saint an upwelling of gratitude for
conveniences and luxuries enjoyed
by him.

Too often in considering the lot
of the saints in earlier days, emphasis
is placed upon the poverty
in which they lived to the exclusion
of the richness of spirit which they
possessed, so abundantly. This spiritual
wealth transmuted their everyday
living into graciousness and
splendor. There sang in their
hearts the knowledge that their daily
righteous acts were taking them
along the path to an eternal life
which would be beautiful and satisfying
beyond their most cherished
dreams and hopes. Also they had
entrenched in the fortresses of their
stout hearts the conviction of the
truth of the words of the Lord to
his Prophet: "My son, peace be unto
thy soul; thine adversity and thine
afflictions shall be but a small moment;
And then, if thou endure it
well, God shall exalt thee on high."

Those early-day saints felt an abiding
joy in their earthly lives and
their eyes were turned in to behold
the richness of their spirits which
caused their hearts to overflow with
thanksgiving.

No matter what the future may hold, these riches can never be snatched away by evil or designing men. By tending and nurturing them they will glow with a brighter hue and give light to the souls of the faithful by which, in spite of the cares and sorrows of the world, they will ultimately reach that flaming celestial world, there to dwell eternally in the presence of the Lord.
For these riches, true thanksgiving should be offered. M. C. S.

Questing Lights
Belle Watson Anderson

Chapter 8
Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his mother and his fiancée Jane Allison in Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America. They meet Mother MacKinlay and her son Bob, whom they had known while doing missionary work, and become acquainted with Kathleen Coleman and her friend Margaret Purvis. Hugh and Kathleen are married on board the ship. While crossing the plains Andrew is lost in a blizzard and is rescued by Margaret. She later leaves the Macs and goes to live in Tooele.
Andrew and the Macs arrive in Zion and Kathleen and Hugh have a son—Mac Coleman Shand. Andrew farms and saves money to bring Jane from Scotland. When he finally sends it, he receives news that Jane has married someone else. Andrew is a grieved and lonely man and he sends for the two youngest children in his family. He is called on a mission, and Margaret comes to stay with the children while he is gone.

ANDREW became a hero overnight.
The news spread to every part of King's Kettle that Andrew Rumgay, the Mormon boy, who went to America a few years ago, had returned.
Friends and relatives from near and far began calling to see him, asking many questions. "What about the gold lying in the streets of America? What about all the free land? Does every man own his home? Are you rich, Andrew? Show us some of your wealth."
Andrew decided this was an opportunity to preach the gospel, so he answered every question carefully and truthfully.
The one thing in which they were all interested was the land. They would sit for hours and nod and listen to the young man discuss the soil—mother earth. It was the desire of every one of them to own a piece of ground.
He told them about the real wealth of America, the rich spiritual values—the purpose for which the land had been held for so many centuries for the restoration of the gospel.
He had seen Mormonism in action and it was wonderful.
"Yes, but we have a religion," they countered.
They had a church which most of them attended every Sunday. Father Douglas was a guid man. He baptized the children, preached a guid sermon, came whenever he was needed. Yes, they had a religion, but no land.
There were different places to which the restless sons of Scotland were emigrating—Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, but the choice of them all was America. For a few times on Sunday the branch church was filled to overflowing with people, in hopes the young elder from Utah would speak about America.

Andrew's mother's home of two rooms, which had furnished a roof over the heads of his loved ones since the happy day David Rumgay had carried Janet Black over its worn threshold, was still a model of efficiency. Everything was planned, budgeted, and carried out to the last detail. It had always taken careful organization to care for ten children without the father.
Page 747
748 The thing that seemed uncanny to Andrew now was the suit problem his mother handled so skillfully. She had five boys to keep decently dressed at their work every day, and at church on Sunday. She kept a record of who got the suit last year, whose turn it was this year, material on hand, what relative had given them a worn suit, what she got out of it after washing and cutting it down. She had made every suit Andrew had worn, until the new suit he had bought for going away.
Life for the children was different in Scotland than in America. The bairns were all up at daylight, eating their porridge before their eyes were half open and, with their dinner pails in their hands, off to work before sunup. Often the Sabbath was the only day they saw the sun. The missionary thought of the children in Utah, well-fed and warmly clothed, with plenty of the necessities of life, if their parents were willing to work for them. They had time for rest and play, and the opportunity of attending school every day. How thankful he was that Bill and Janet were in Zion, and with such a wonderful person to take care of them!
E remembered that Margaret was very much like his mother around the house, quick and efficient in getting things done. He had worked, cooked, and cleaned for the bairns, and what a slow, hard job it had been. Then Margaret had come into his home, and he found there was magic in her touch. The place, so out of harmony at times, began to respond immediately to her woman's contact.
He smiled when he remembered the curtains he had hung in such pitiful folds and plaits. The first night he had come home after Margaret had arrived the curtains fairly laughed and shouted, "Man, look at us now!" The dishes on the shelves kept their faces clean and shining in spite of the fact that they were still used three times a day. What a time he had had to keep them clean and he had been always breaking dishes.
Margaret was beautiful and so the cabin was beautiful, he recalled. Margaret smiled, and was cheerful, so the cabin was smiling and cheerful. He always thought of her in a long, full, billowy dress of blue, with flowers in her black, silken hair.
Andrew stayed close to his mother during his time out for visiting. All his friends and relatives had been to see him, and time was precious. Soon he would be leaving for his missionary work. So, while she cooked, darned, and mended, he read to his mother from the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants. He wanted to study the gospel, so this was an opportunity for them to study together.
Janet Rumgay's joy was full and brimming over, as she sat and listened to her son. He was such a guid lad. Out of her tears, trials, heartaches, and prayers, he had somehow come through. He was growing to look like his father. David was about again now that Andrew had come back home. But David could not talk and read like Andrew. Mormonism had been like a college education for her son. She must keep all his brothers and sisters in the Church.
She often asked him about the young lady with the pretty name who was caring for the bairns.

He seemed to trust her; he never worried about the children. But then Mother Mac and Kathleen were near, if they should get sick. Andrew would become excited and very enthusiastic. "Why, Margaret is the best little nurse in America." His mother suggested that perhaps, only perhaps, if Margaret was willing to take care of the bairns, she might be willing to take care of him, too, when he returned. She watched his face light up and she studied him very intently, pleased with what she saw. Then Andrew would grow sad and disappointed again. "Why worry about Jane Allison when Margaret is in Utah? She must be wonderful, Andrew. She would make a guid Scotch wife for you, and you like her, I'm sure." Why worry? That was the question he was trying so hard to answer.

NE evening Andrew stood in his mother's doorway comparing Resplendence with King's Kettle. Resplendence was new and young, new land, new homes, new mountains, the great storehouses of water, homes, food, and wealth. King's Kettle was old; the soil needed constant replenishing; the homes were slowly wearing away. Just then the moon suddenly appeared from behind the clouds and spread its silvery light over his childhood home. It brought back pictures of the past. Jane was strangely in the floodlight, at home in the garden the night before he left for America; at the 749 monastery, promising to be faithful in life, faithful in death.

Suddenly a sweep of emotion came over Andrew. He crossed the street and went running up the trail, along the sidehill, toward the pits. Mary saw him and ran after him. "Andrew, Andrew, wait for me."

THEY climbed the hill together in silence, to the childhood trysting place. All the months of hard living on the plains, the days and nights of loneliness on the river bottoms, his precious dreams in the forest, overwhelmed him. There was no purpose in the life he had been living. Everything was gone with Jane. He sat down with his head in his hands, praying for self-control.

Mary began speaking softly. "I thought it better not to even mention her name. Maybe that wasn't the right way out. Now I will tell you everything I know. For nearly two years after you left, Jane was just the same. She came to Church and to see mother once and sometimes twice a week. Then she began to change. She didn't come to Church regularly, nor to see mother so often. You know how unreasonable Herbert Allison and his wife were against the Mormons. Well, your letters were far apart, and you wrote Jane all about the trek across the plains. Jane told me she was frightened. She could never live through such an experience, she said.

A few months later a man began calling at the Allison home. He was a business associate of Mr. Allison, and lived in Dumferline. He had a lot of money and property. You know what money meant to Jane. She was always the best-dressed girl at Church. Jane didn't go out with the stranger, but he continued to call. Later, they were married and made their home in Dumferline. She has riches, but not happiness. She still loves you. I met her in a store one day when I was shopping. She stopped and talked with me for a few minutes and asked about you. No, Andrew, Jane is far from being happy."

"Thanks, Mary. You've always been a true sister and such a comfort—pouring oil on turbulent waters." He smiled, took her hand, and they walked back home in the moonlight.

ANDREW'S peace of mind was won through the study and preaching of the gospel. He reported to his president, was assigned his companion, and they went to work. The Lord had been generous with him; he would be generous with the Lord. They studied and worked hard. They called at every home in King's Kettle and taught the gospel wherever the people would receive them. When the branch president was released, Andrew was appointed to take his place. They continued to work in King's Kettle and then went to nearby villages to tract. Finally, Andrew was made conference president and he and the elders continued to labor in the vineyard of the Lord.

ANDREW received many great blessings—health and peace of mind. He could see the hand of the Lord shaping his destiny, and he was a wise designer. The missionary was grateful for the hard things he had passed through; they were blessings in disguise.

Then came the time his mission was completed. He was released to return home. Some months before Mary had told him of the death of Jane's husband. He received a letter from Jane, asking him to call, so he went for old time's sake. She lived in a castle, it seemed to the elder, on a street where only the rich could afford to live. He rang the doorbell. Jane answered it. She was charming, gracious, and had developed into a wonderful picture of womanliness, but Andrew was unmoved.

"I have this home, many acres of land, and a lot of money, left to me by father and my husband, and because, Andrew, I have never stopped loving you for one minute, I am asking you again not to go to Utah."

"My answer is the same," he said. "My home and all I shall ever want are in Zion. Now that I have completed my mission, I'm returning home."

"I'm sorry for what I did. I did not want to hurt you, but after I read of your long walk across the continent, I could not face it. Andrew, I am no pioneer. I hate poverty, misfits, everything that goes with it. I could not come. You have loved the riches of another world, while I love the wealth of this one. Our paths are so far apart. I am in the fog. You are beyond me."

"My treasures belong to this world, too, Jane. I draw my interest every moment of my life, and it is mine for the asking. I am no longer in the fog. My heart and head are clear and free."

"Someone else?" Jane inquired.

"Yes, Jane, I am sure there is someone else," Andrew said. He walked the flagged streets of Dumferline back to his childhood home. He wanted to think things through. Jane never would have been happy in the cabin or in Resplendence. How very thankful he was that she had not come.

His head was clear and free, but his heart was not free. At home in the cabin was the lass he loved. Margaret was a pioneer, and would make a wonderful wife for a pioneer. Jane would be happy in her beautiful home, with her acres of land and her money—while he would be happy in the cabin with the bairns, and with Margaret—if she cared enough for him to stay.

He prayed that he would not be too late in asking her.

(To be concluded) APACHE BASKET Irene Rayner Storey Crisscross went the weaving rush, While her eyes traveled far; Infolded were the swallow's flight, And the gleam of metal star. Interlaced with warm, red grass And quail tuft's woven brim, The primordial flush of dogwood And the spruce's evening hymn. In primitive grace and Indian art She coiled the flowing stream, In polished bits of abalone, The glacier lily's dream. In chippa twigs and cedar roots, In zigzag line and turn, The rain cloud and the thunder bird In strangest lore may bum. PREFACE TO: WINTER Jessie M. Robinson Thready weeds in buff and brown, Brittle, silvered grasses, Milkweed pods of fairy down; A crying blackbird passes. Meadows rimed with pearls of white, And oaten stubble trembling Like a wave of copper light; Honk of geese assembling. Sulphur sunset burning low Past boughs of late. November; Indian summer's warm red-gold Is now a graying ember. Dolls Do Not Grow Old Dorothy J]. Roberts OU lucky ladies who are mothers of little girls know that dolls do not grow old. Mari Etta has told you so, with proper six-year-old emphasis, and she will not surrender her dolls to the gaping mouth of the trash can. Many of these, to you, wan and bedraggled beauties of last year or years before, may be glamorized for next Christmas and reside, unashamed, beneath the lighted tree with the newest doll. Spirit the retrievable ones away in the weeks before the great day and in solitary moments try transforming them into pert and new someones. Begin by examining the dolls in shops and noting the dressed-up beauties in magazines, for ideas on hair arrangements and costuming. Also, keep in mind the beloved little heroines of fairyland and fable and those well-loved ladies who lived long ago or who are still with us, and don't forget the period and nationality dolls, Dutch, French, and Oriental. Now examine your doll's hair. If it is still present in any quantity, you can comb it carefully, separate it into locks, and put it up in bobbypin curls and leave it pinned up until the day. Or you can rebraid it and tie it with fresh ribbons. If the hair is scanty and the pate looks bare, switches of gleaming locks may be purchased at the dime stores to transform the plainest miss into a glamorous heroine. One hairpiece, cut in half, should be enough for two wigs. Some stores carry bright, short curls, at very little cost. With artificial hair, plus glue, and the help of a hat, you can arrange a new wig for the doll. The hat may have to be sewed on with the wig, but a young mistress will be pleased, nevertheless. To brighten up the pale doll, wash her carefully. With a damp cloth, then with a steady hand, repaint the lips with red nail polish. Paint the finger and toenails red also. Dutch Hat Fold of Material Seam DOLLS DO NOT GROW OLD Faded eyebrows may be touched with a bit of brown oil paint. Clothes may not make the man, but a doll is different. Since her small bisque body claims no soul (except to her little mother), habiliments become her chief charm. So let her have as many and as elegant costumes as your purse and inclination allow. Gather bright, clear-colored pieces of materials—cottons, satins, velvets, laces, braid—from scrap bags or remnants from dime stores. Basque waists and bouffant skirts are easily made and are loved by children, being a refreshing escape to elegance from their own simplified wardrobes. Ribbon bows placed here and there, a touch of gay embroidery, or a flower, will make of these clothes much prettier ones than can be purchased at average prices. If you have no time for sewing doll clothes yourself, perhaps a cousin or a young neighbor would like to take over the project for a fair sum. Hats can be made of scraps of felt or velvet or braid (sewed on a paper pattern in rounds for a beautiful, floppy hat). Dutch hats, made of one piece of felt, folded and stitched down one side, are pretty and suitable to sew on to the new hair. You will find that making a doll's trousseau is a fascinating little labor of love and one both you and the daughters will remember long after they are no longer little girls. THE SIMPLE THINGS OF LIFE Geneva I. Oldroyd I love the simple things of life That come to us each day, A baby's smile, a collie's bark, A group of boys at play; A garden growing in the sun And giving of its store, A rosebush in its second bloom Of beauty as before; My neighbor's nod across the fence, The postman's friendly smile, The sociability of friends— All these make life worth while. THE DEAREST SPOT Eunice J. Miles A place of peace, A rendezvous from harm, A roof against the gale To keep us warm; A cozy kitchen Where a kettle sings, And children prattle Over the artless things, Where love and friendliness Hold greatest worth— This is our home, The dearest spot on earth, Then—and Now! Sadie Ollerton Clark AST June my husband, David, our youngest son, and I took a brief vacation from the coastal plains of Texas. We had a happy reunion with friends in Utah, picked up Reid, another son who had just finished a school term at the State university, and turned the green Chevrolet south to Arizona, over the Grand Canyon bridge. We had planned on one more cool evening before we faced the heat of the Salt River Valley, and thought it would be a treat to the boys to stay overnight on the north rim of the canyon. But after an afternoon of climbing and sightseeing, both boys declared they would rather go on. It would be cooler to ride through the desert at night, they said, and we could sleep comfortably at Flagstaff. "Flagstaff is such a long way," I protested. "It will take us all night to get there." "It is just a four or five-hour drive," declared our eldest. "We can be there before midnight." Knowing from past experience he could outargue me, and also that he was generally right, I found my place in the back seat of the car. We drove through the beautiful meadows of the Kaibab just as the sun was shedding its last rays. On one side of the road we could see deer and cattle grazing together, and on the other, a stately stag posing on a cliff, as if for a picture. Then, as my husband took my hand, I knew that he, as well as I, was seeing this scene twice—now, and as it looked twenty-four years ago when he brought me, his bride, to this lovely spot for our honeymoon. The mountains and pastures looked just the same. The deer and cattle together could have been an identical picture. But on that turn of the road where one white-tailed doe bounded lightly into the forest we remembered a band of twenty-five bucks.

We had surprised dozens of the delicate little creatures who had given us startled glances and darted away. Either not so many deer, I thought, or they keep hidden better. And I looked in vain for the whitetailed, black squirrels which I remembered were formerly everywhere. The moon was coming up as we left the great forest and started down the historic hill to the desert. Twenty-four years ago we would not have dared cross it at such an hour. Then, we had looked down upon the same scenes—the interminable range of low, red mountains so symbolic of this country, with the only landmark in all those endless desert miles a low rock house at the foot of the hill. My thoughts traveled backward.... Leigh and I started down that rocky trail which (nearly a quarter of a century ago) served for a road. We saw a car near the rock house and two men, probably a quarter of a mile away, climbing toward us. As they came closer they hailed us, and we looked to our water supply, for we thought they would surely need a drink. But as THEN—AND NOW

We approached them they waved a small canteen at us and swore mildly.

"Wouldn't you know it—just a couple of kids! Where on earth are you heading for?"

"Flagstaff, and on to Phoenix."

"Flagstaff!" One of them sat weakly on the tuning board while the other cried, "Take a fool's advice and turn back. You will never make it." They told us their story. They had been stuck in the sand, time after time, and had dug themselves out with their bare and blistered hands. They had been four days crossing the desert, and when they reached the rock house they had had to abandon their car because their gasoline supply was exhausted. We talked to them a few minutes, but assured them we were going on. They refused our offer of water and continued their climb, shaking their heads, while we jolted down over the sharp rocks of the old wagon road.

This was not the first time we had been discouraged. The day before, a few miles out of Kanab, we had partially broken a spring. The owner of a combined livery stable and garage sold us a used one, but when we told him we intended to cross Lee's Ferry he was surprised.

"Why didn't you go by way of California?" he asked. "You'll never make it this way."

We explained that we had intended going another route. In fact, we had been in Yellowstone Park the previous week, and before we dared start for the Pacific Coast we had telegraphed for advice on getting into Arizona from California. Our answer had been to avoid California 755 as Arizona had a quarantine against California cars in June of 1924 because of a raging epidemic of hoof and mouth disease. Cars had been held up at the bridges for weeks, and there was no relief in sight, so we had decided to try Lee's Ferry.

Our adviser was still pessimistic. He said we would get stuck in the sand, that he had taken a party to the Ferry just a few days before, and that he charged fifty dollars for the trip, but after these people had seen the road they had given him one hundred dollars. But we couldn't afford even fifty dollars. It had taken practically every cent we had to spare to buy that spring for the car.

We weren't afraid, but we hated to appear too self-confident, so we left him, saying we would go on to the canyon and decide what to do then. There was no hotel at the north rim in 1924, so we camped out. The business of the canyon seemed to be centered in a big, log store and post office. Just after dark we walked toward it.

Coming through the windows we heard strange and unearthly sounds of music, accompanied by weird shrieks and wails. Curiously, and a little frightened, we pushed our way into the big room and watched a man engaged in one of the favorite pastimes of the day—working the dial of a home-built radio and trying to find every station he could reach. It was my first encounter with a radio!

Leigh talked to some of the men gathered there. When they learned we were planning to go across Lee's Ferry, they looked at us in amazement. I don't recall that they actually told us not to try to 756 go, but one after another started telling some pretty tall stories, or so they sounded to me.

I can picture one of the men now, long and lean, wearing high-heeled boots and Stetson hat and faded overalls. He waved his hand toward the great chasm and pointed out some dim and flickering lights from the blackness beyond.

"See those lights?" he said. "Well, last summer an old party came here late in the afternoon—him and his wife in a big Packard limousine with a Negro chauffeur. They turned up their noses at our accommodations here but decided to spend the night in one of the cabins. When it was dark enough to see the lights, the man asked where they were coming from, and I told him they were from El 'Tovar, the big hotel on the south rim."

"How far is it across?" he says.

"Thirteen miles," I say.

"He turned to his wife and said, 'Let's go over for dinner and stay there.'"

Well, we all thought he was joking, so we all chipped in and said, "Yes, why don't you? It's an easy drive, only thirteen miles," and so on. We couldn't understand how ignorant a feller could be about distances out here. But when we saw they were actually taking us serious and were putting their bags in the car we changed our tune.

We told him he couldn't drive to the other side that night. It was 135 miles of no roads at all, and he couldn't carry enough gas in that big Packard to get him over there.

Well, this old guy had taken us serious at first, and now for a while he thought we were joking. When he found out we meant it, he got stubborn and accused us of trying to make them stay in this wild place. We finally persuaded him to fill his tank and take five gallons of gas extra.

But this old boy, he had an awful time. He made it to the Ferry all night, but the next day he ran out of gas. There wasn't a chance of anyone coming along that road who could help him, so he left his wife and the colored man and started to walk. He walked all day, lost in those hot, dry hills, but finally found an Indian camp, and bought some kerosene. It took him all the next day to get back to the car, and another day to get to the Little Colorado, to a filling station.

They had run out of water and were nearly dead when they finally reached El Tovar. He said all he wanted to do was to get out of this forsaken country and he would never come back. He had enough of western scenery to last him all the rest of his life!" All the men laughed and several recalled the circumstances. Others had more stories to tell, but Leigh and I said nothing. The next morning we took a last look at the magnificent gorge and started back through the Kaibab. At Jacob's Lake, Leigh stopped the car and asked, "Which way?" I answered, "Don't be silly. We've got to get home." "Hail, oh, hail to Arizona!" sang my husband as we drove through the wonderful Kaibab Forest to the top of the hill. "Jumping off place," I called it. It was there we had met the two men. We were soon on the desert, trying to follow a poor semblance of a road. It was never too clearly defined. Sometimes we just drove south, but sooner or later we found the trail. The year 1924 was unusually dry, and there wasn't a green plant anywhere. Off in the distance, not far from the rock house, we saw a herd of wild buffalo. They looked weak and disheartened from lack of food and water. We wondered if they would be alive by August.

We were stuck in the sand several times, but Leigh had had foresight enough to bring a shovel. We would put brush under the wheel, dig a little, and the famous pulling power of the old 1917 Dodge would get us out of that hole. Late in the afternoon we knew we were nearing the river, as we could see signs of green, which could be cottonwood trees. Just before we reached the Ferry we came onto a most interesting scene. In one sand area were hundreds of balanced rocks and peculiar formations. Delightedly, we took pictures. Then on a sandstone cliff we saw a carved date—1879.

"Grandfather Noble came over this road about that date, when he moved his family to Arizona," said Leigh.

The ruggedness of the country, the silence and absence of any life made me wonder if we were the first humans to travel this road since! But at the Ferry we were received casually enough. The man who collected our dollar said he ferried a car across every few days, and saw no hardships ahead. It was a thrill to put the car on the historic, old Ferry. I tried to ask questions about the history of the place, but our pilot didn't seem anxious to talk, although he did tell us that a few years before the cable broke and the boat got out of control. I wondered if the passengers had been asking too many questions at the time.

The green cottonwoods and willow trees gave a grateful shade to the hot country. We saw snatches of gardens and fruit trees, but the ferryman's business was to get us across the river, which he did, with dispatch. We climbed "Lee's Backbone," the rocky hill on the south side of the river, about sunset. Leigh recalled his mother's stories about crossing this road as a young girl. Her father had been sent by the Church as a bishop to a small Arizona town, and they had traveled these wearisome desert miles by team and wagon. It took them a month, and one of the nightmare spots of the trip had been the climb up "Lee's Backbone."

We blessed the Dodge for its comparative speed and endurance, and drove on about ten miles, congratulating ourselves on making the terrible journey with so little trouble. Then, as it was beginning to get dark, we made our camp.

In those days there were few road maps, and for some reason, probably because the people who had tried to frighten us had nearly always emphasized the danger of the north side of the Ferry, we thought we were practically to Flagstaff. Because the air was heavily loaded, Leigh threw away our big can of water, and we lay there in that wilderness, listening to the coyotes howling and promised ourselves we would sleep in a hotel the next night.

I suppose it was because we thought we would surely get somewhere soon that made the next day so long. It seemed almost endless. The rocks of the "jumping-off place" hill had cut into our tires and we had to stop and patch one every hour or so. The road wasn't so bad, but it didn't seem to lead any place. Once we came upon some fresh wagon tracks, and followed them twenty miles, only to find that they turned around and came back over the same ruts. Forty miles lost! We put a few rocks in the road to discourage the next traveler from making our mistake, and went on. But our water supply was running low and we bitterly regretted leaving the big can behind.

Late that afternoon we reached the "Little Colorado" trading post. The river was dry, but the store was open. A woman waited on us, and expressed no surprise at seeing us. She allowed us only one canteen of water for ourselves and the car. We decided to drive on, no matter how long it took us, when we heard the now tragically familiar sound of another blowout. In disgust, Leigh pulled off the road. "I can't fix another one tonight," he said wearily. "We will just camp here and go on in the morning."

We put up the cot. There was only a swallow or two of water left in the canteen, and we laughingly made a ceremony of drinking it. Then we lay down to the most fantastic dreams. They were all about water. We were swimming in it, sailing on it, but when we reached for a drink it was gone.

We were awakened from this uneasy slumber by the sound of a car passing us, and we thought we heard someone laugh. We sat up in bed and looked about us. It was barely light, but Leigh recognized the place. We had made our bed in a triangle of grass which marked a junction of three roads—one west to Flagstaff, one east to Albuquerque, and the northern one we had traveled!

I had fallen asleep as my tall son drove swiftly across the same old desert on well-paved roads, and I was awakened by a display of neon signs and flashing lights.

"This is the junction," Reid said. "It will be in Flagstaff in a few minutes."

"The junction!" I cried. "I remember this place. And I'm thirsty!"

Then I smiled, a little embarrassed, even after all these years.

"If there had been a few lights twenty-four years ago we wouldn't have been caught in such a predicament," I explained, mostly to myself. "But what time is it?"

It was just four hours since we had left Jacob's Lake.

"It's too short a time even to realize where we've been," I said.

"Would you rather have it the way it was before?" jibed my youngest.

Would I? Well, I'll have to admit I appreciate all the comfort I can get when I travel these days. But take twenty-four years from my age and give me the same boyish companion, and I would still be thrilled to face the unknown. For if you never get off the paved highway, and can make a month's journey in four hours, where is the excitement, or the fun, or the adventure? 

SEASONING (Continued) 759 Seasoning (Continued from page 743)

"Now, what are you thinking?" Maury demanded.
"Of your father's house."
"Why?"
"PM remembering how small it was, and how there was always room for people—always room for the hungry, the cold, the cast out. - - everyone who needed food and friendship."
She laughed.
"Hard put we were at times to make it go, but that is where my father's thrift was right welcome."
"That's what I mean," he said. "Some people, who have little, have so much. And some, who have much, have nothing at all."
He looked about him.
"Gosh! I have a lot to learn, like how it's not the food that makes Thanksgiving, but the seasonings from the heart."
She nodded.
"Aye, I know."
She looked at the clock.
"You must hurry now. You must not be late for her dinner."
John pursued the last shred of turkey.
"Maury, did I ever tell you that red is my favorite shade of hair?"
She paused, fork in midair.
Tears sprang suddenly upon her glowing cheeks.
"Nay, you didna'.. You really find it fair?" 
"T find it fair," John repeated.

WILD GEESE
Beatrice K. Ekman

Above the marshes and reed-fringed lagoon,
I hear the wild geese honking in their flight;
Bathed in the luster of the hunter's moon,
They dip their wings down trackless lanes of night.
Over the coarse marsh grass pale vapors rise,
On the dark lake a bright moon-path is drawn,
As, faint and faraway, the honking dies
And wild geese merge with moonbeams and are gone.

I WAIT FOR SPRING
Grace Sayre

I shall pause long when autumn's golden flame
Burns in the maple's glory, to its last dim ash.
I cannot bear earth's poignant claim,
Graying to embers in a wintry blast.
The leaves that drift beyond the garden wall
Will rest in golden layers on the sod;
But I must not look back to see them fall.
I pause.... While empty boughs commune with God.
And who am I to gaze on nature's pall?
I wait for spring where autumn's gold is massed,
And by these symbols, know the year has passed.

A Party for You
Sara Mills

HERE'S party blood in your veins. Read one of the old pioneer diaries. It will tell of furniture pushed outside to make room for dancing feet. Any pretext was enough: a visitor, a person about to go visiting, or no pretext at all. Often as not the party lasted through the night to morning chore time. It was these parties that kept gaiety alive in the bleak days.

Now, in far-removed 1948, you have an essential need to keep gaiety nourished. Give at least one party this holiday season. The memory of it will leave a warm glow to help you up the steep, cold ascent of the January and February hills.

We're passing on to you a menu for a party dinner you can engineer single-handed, if need be. The dinner is an easy one, but so good it will set the tempo for a fine, blithe evening.

Roast turkey is the main dish (as cheap as any other in these days). It is abetted by potatoes au gratin in an elegant guise; a salad that can be made the day before, and a fruitcake. This may be the one you made in November, or the mincemeat fruitcake listed on the menu.

For bread, buy clover-leaf rolls and break them in threes for serving. Dress your turkey the night before, down to the last stitch. Also make your salad the day before, and prepare your potatoes. The dinner is self-serving, of course. Because your oven will be turkey occupied in the afternoon, set your potatoes to bake in the casserole the first thing in the morning. Then keep them covered on top of the oven, popping them in the last thing to be re-heated.

For a drink, use your favorite fruit-juice concoction, hot or cold.

MENU

Roast turkey with dressing warm
Potatoes au gratin
Pear jello
Celery with avocado cheese relish
Cranberry sauce
Mincemeat fruitcake
Clover-leaf rolls
Fruit drink

POTATOES AU GRATIN

Potatoes (boiled in skins, approximately one large one to two persons)
Thin cheese sauce (about 1/2 cup of grated American cheese to each pint of thin white sauce)
Bread crumbs (fine and dry)
1 large onion, sliced
Worcestershire sauce
Butter, salt, and pepper

Boil the potatoes in their jackets. When they are cool, slice them in smallish pieces and place them in a large dish. Season with salt and scatter slices of raw onion throughout the potatoes. Cover and leave in a cool place overnight.

Next morning, remove all onion slices. Make a thin white sauce of butter, flour, and milk. Add the seasonings and the grated American cheese. In a large casserole, place alternate layers of potatoes, bread crumbs, and cheese sauce, topping the dish with a thin layer of crumbs. Dust lightly with pepper and dot with butter. Place in a low oven, about 250°, and bake for two hours.

Taste well for seasoning, have plenty of the thin cheese sauce, and bake slowly. You will have a dish of rarely blended flavors.

A PARTY FOR YOU

PEAR JELLO
1 package lime jello
2 cups liquid
1 can or quart bottle of pears
2 small packages cream cheese
1 pinch ginger
1 tbs. Vinegar

Dissolve jello in 1 cup of boiling water and add 1 cup of pear juice. Pour half of the jello, with vinegar added, into a flat pan. Put in ice box. Place remaining jello in bowl and when it is congealed, beat with a rotary egg beater. Cream the cheese smoothly with a fork; add gradually to the beaten jello. Add ginger and pears cut in pieces, and place on top of plain jello. Chill.

For a large party you will need to double this recipe.

AVOCADO CHEESE RELISH

1 cup finely mashed avocado
2 tsp. Lemon juice
4 3/4 cup sieved Roquefort cheese
1 tbs. Thick, sour cream
Dash of Tabasco and Worcestershire sauces
Salt and pepper to taste

Mix all the ingredients well and chill.

Just before serving, place a portion of the relish in celery stalks chilled in ice water.

761

MINCEMEAT FRUITCAKE

2 cup shortening
1 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1 cup mincemeat
2 cups flour
2 tsp. Baking powder
1/2 tsp. Salt
1/4 tsp. Each cinnamon and cloves
1/2 cup milk
1/2 cup chopped nuts
1/2 cup, chopped, candied fruits

This is a cake you can make with utmost confidence.

Cream the shortening and sugar together.
Add the egg and mincemeat.
Beat well.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, and cloves.
Add alternately with milk to mincemeat mixture.
Fold in chopped nuts and fruit.

Bake in a greased, paper-lined loaf pan in a 350° oven for 1¼ hours. Serve in thin slices. You may need to double this recipe, also.

At the last minute, while your husband is carving the turkey and you are tending to heating the rolls and potatoes, ask one of your guests to arrange the salad and celery stalks. You can now enjoy the party with unruffled ease.

Remember the Women of Your Family with a Subscription to thefor one year, beginning with Use this Coupon Enclosed please find $1.50 for which please send the Relief Society Maga- (Name) to: (Street and number) (City and State) (Ward or Branch) (Stake or Mission)

Shall we send a gift card to the recipient of this subscription?

Subscriptions which begin with January 1949 must be received by December

Shall we send a gift card to the recipient of this subscription?

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274.

FASHION SHOWS, SINGING MOTHERS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
Photograph submitted by Gwendolyn T. Gwynn WASHINGTON STAKE (WASHINGTON D.C.), CHEVY CHASE WARD
BRIDAL SCENE FROM STAKE FASHION SHOW
Front row, left to right: Valerie Candland; Marilyn Margetts; Kathleen Ann Carpenter.
Back row, left to right: Ruth Benson; Millicent Burton; Florence Johnson (the bride); Alice Ann Wilkinson; Jean Ellen Patterson.

All of the girls in the photograph are daughters of Relief Society members of the Chevy Chase Ward, and their dresses were made by their mothers or their friends. Gwendolyn T. Gwynn is president of Washington Stake Relief Society.

Page 762

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND THEIR BABIES
Seated, left to right: Thelma P. Brown, Second Counselor; Grace M. Pace, President; Leone G. McQueen, First Counselor.
Standing, left to right: Lorene B. Boyer, social science leader; Edith C. Reed, theology leader; Marjorie B. Crittenden, work meeting leader; Ester R. Brown, organist.

Sister Pace comments upon this interesting group as follows: "We have enjoyed the work and have taken our babies with us each week to carry on our duties. All of these officers performed their duties faithfully during the entire season."

Mary E. Wright is president of Summit Stake Relief Society.

STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING), BEDFORD WARD
RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR, December 5, 1947
A dancing party was held in connection with this bazaar, which was planned as a Christmas gift sale and social. It was a very successful occasion and netted over $250 which was contributed toward financing the new ward chapel now being planned. This little organization, having only thirty members, has completed its quota for the Relief Society Building Fund. The organization was assigned $150 and $159 was collected.

The sisters are happy to have an interest in this beautiful building, soon to be built for the women of the Church.

Nellie B. Jensen is president of Star Valley Stake Relief Society.

BIG COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH), SINGING MOTHERS WHO FURNISHED THE MUSIC AT THE MORNING SESSION OF STAKE CONFERENCE, March 14, 1948
The director is Margaret S. Larsen; organist, Gladys B. Nichols; pianist, Dorothy W. Cutler.

Alta J. Vance, now a member of the general board of Relief Society, was president of Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society when this photograph was taken. Helen Anderson is the present stake president of Relief Society.

Photograph submitted by Zina Baker

WEST UTAH STAKE, PROVO SECOND WARD
TEEN-AGE GIRLS MAKE LAYETTE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY WELFARE PROJECT
Front row, seated, left to right: Colleen Pritchet; Georgia Miner; Leona Aston; Ina Tunborous; Barbara Tunborous; Virginia Ritchie; Hildred Nelson; Marilyn Green.
Second row, seated, left to right: Geraldine Snow; Marilyn Sturgis; Elizabeth Hendrickson; Laurel Baker; Rula Huff; Juanita Stone; Ruth Hawkins; Margaret Campbell; Leah Ruth Crawley.

Standing, left to right: Veva Anderson; Erlene Lewis; La Faye Anderson; Gwen Rasmussen.

Upon the completion of this project, which was most beautifully and carefully accomplished, the leaders of the teen-age girls enjoyed an afternoon social and invited the girls and their mothers. Rose Goates is president of West Utah Stake Relief Society.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
WARD RELIEF SOCIETY FOR SPECIAL PROGRAM, March

Front row, seated, left to right: Theresa Sims.
Tow, standing, left to right: McBride; Ba 5) MISSION, ANCHORAGE RELIEF so NQUET, (ALASKA)
BRANCH March 17, 1948
The unique table decorations for this occasion consisted of blue, diamond-shaped blocks on white, to represent a quilt. Wall panels of the same design were used.

The favors for the men were paper beards and sunbonnets for the women.

Georgina F. Richards is president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society.

Photograph submitted by Ethel E. Blomquist

SWEDISH MISSION, STOCKHOLM BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS
IN PAGEANT "WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE"
Left to right: Inez Perciwall; Ragnhild Askerlund; Mary Hagerstrom; Mimmi Jansson;
Davida Donsson; Emy Lansfeldt; Anna Jolianson; Eva Karlsson; Ebba Ekstrom;
Edith Nilsson; Ethel E. Blomquist.

Ethel E. Blomquist is president of the Swedish Mission Relief Society.

Photograph submitted by Ida G. Sharp

SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION, SPRINGS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
Front row, left to right: Olive Jubber; Second Counselor Gertrude Stemmett;
President Mavis Louw; First Counselor Margaret Futter.
Back row, left to right: Cora Futter; Secretary Beryl Wilson; Phyllis Armstrong;
Ida G. Sharp, former President, South African Mission Relief Society.

Sister Sharp comments regarding this interesting branch: "A number of years ago a family by the name of Futter heard this wonderful gospel. There were the father, mother, and eight children, five girls and three boys. In a short time they joined the Church and have been faithful members ever since. A few years ago the family moved to Springs and all of them live there now except one daughter who lives in East London. This daughter is interested in Relief Society and is a subscriber to the Magazine. The Springs Branch Relief Society is a family affair—except for Gertrude Stemmett, but she is, with the others, a member of the Relief Society family. The Springs Branch is very wide awake and very ambitious. When they have a bazaar they make a number of lovely things, knit and hand-embroidered, as well as many good things to eat. After doing all this work and making many donations... they buy back their own things."

Photograph submitted by Hilda M. Richards

EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, HUNTINGTON (WEST VIRGINIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS
Front row, left to right: Kines Bexfield; Helen Erwin; Mollie Adkins, pianist;
Maud Rice; Margaret Anderson.
Back row, left to right: Mildred Sharp; Maggie Sharp; Ona Schroath; Velva Sharp.

Hilda M. Richards is president of the East Central States Mission Relief Society.

Photograph submitted by Alberta O. Doxey

EASTERN STATES MISSION, SCHENECTADY BRANCH DEVELOPS INTERESTING AND REWARDING PROJECTS
Seated, left to right: Edith Smith; Vera Caulford; Counselor Edith Neal; Olga Hopper.
Standing, left to right: Carol Bertoch; Ethel Budney; Connie Fackrell; Counselor Margaret Schuster; Barbara Taylor; President Jean Berbert; Vivien Stroble; Counselor Stella Mathews; Lucy Mead; Barbara Huston; Melba Jacobs; Edith Hatch; Betty Gorbutt; Evelyn Wursten.

Among the many helpful projects which this group has sponsored is one which provides a source of income—a Mother's Exchange, to which the sisters contribute good clothing which the members of their families have outgrown. These articles are then sold to people who need them, at minimum prices.

Another project, primarily for the convenience of the members of this society, was the making up, by means of a hectograph, of booklets listing the names and addresses of all the branch members. At a dime apiece, these more than paid for the hectograph.

The group is now at work on menu booklets featuring recipes that can be prepared in advance, so mothers can get to Sunday School. These booklets should pay for the quilting frames ordered recently.

Alberta O. Doxey is former president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mary S. Ellsworth

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, SAN RAFAEL BRANCH SINGING
MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR THEIR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM
April 4, 1948

Left to right: President Norene Deaver; musical director Helen Richards; Lillian Clark; Pearl Aiken; Ruth Ingram; chorister Elayne Reid; Catherine Moore; Margaret Goff; Second Counselor Betty Millerberg; Barbara Reynolds; Secretary-Treasurer Louise Arntsen; Carmen DeArmond.

Many of these sisters are former members of the home stakes in Utah, but they are now faithfully carrying on the work of the Relief Society in their mission branch.

Mary E. Ellsworth is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Bemice McKinnon

TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, FORT WORTH (TEXAS) RELIEF SOCIETY
WORKERS WHO MADE THE ARTICLES FOR THE BAZAAR AND PREPARED THE EXHIBITS, December 6, 1947

Left to right: Annie S. Poll; Gwendolyn Runyon; First Counselor Alice Allred; President Allene Bremer; Second Counselor Ova Moorman; Secretary-Treasurer Bernice McKinnon; Velda Schmutz; Elsie Fox.

Back row, left to right: Golda Silcox; Juliet Maathuis; Clara Cox; Carrie Tywater; Lydia Swanson; Susan Roberts; Gwendolyn Allredge; JoDean Porter; Alta Hart; Mrs. I. Beauchamp.

Christie J. Smith is president of the Texas-Louisiana Mission Relief Society.