Bellini THE VIRGIN AND CHILD WITH ST. PAUL AND ST. GEORGE Such. As I By Bertha A. Kleinman I hope I never climb so high Above the swarted plain, That homely tasks that test and try Shall humble me or mortify Or kindle my disdain. I hope I never learn so much Of rare philosophy That I shall lose the 'common touch" _. The home folks atmosphere and such Of those who do for me. I never want that fling of power— Not even for a day— That anything obscure should cower Or make of me a conning tower Of things you do and say. I never want to soar so far That plain things pass me by, My vision though it trail'a star, Begins where home and home tasks are, Mid plain folks such as I. Earthbound By Grace Zenor Pratt Sometimes my soul clings to this earth, I know not why Oftimes the dross, the crude, the minor things Appeal, and draw me on relentless wings; I love the ease, the pampering of self— The laughter of the multitude, the careless smile, I love the swish of silks, the music of the dance— All this has power to hold me, to entrance. It is not ever so, for there are times When the spirit rises from the earthy way— Glimpses of mystic vales, fragments of song Have power to fill my soul with ecstasy. -All my temptations—comforts held so dear, Are naught to me when heaven seems so near. How complex is this earth-bound soul of mine, Clinging to life with all its cares and joys, Seeking an upward path with groping hands, Thrusting aside the doubting which annoys, Searching for light, and failing, strives, once more © To glimpse a clearer vision of that shore. Back to the Fountain Head By Theodore E. Curtis Back yonder in the ancient night The prophet Malichi Beheld afar, in vision bright, A judgment from the sky Descending like an avalanche And in the flaming day He saw the wicked, root and branch Pass from the earth away. Before that dreadful day would come Elijah would be sent To plant in every Christian. Home The ancient covenant— To turn the children's hearts again To their repentant dead And weld the old parental chain Back to the fountain head. But look! (Oh age of miracles) A sudden burst of light Breaks from the Kirtland Temple halls Across the dusky night. Elijah comes! Hail to his name! The judgment is at hand, His spirit kindles like a flame Encircling the land. According to the seer's dream His priesthood is restored— Another monumental stream Into the ocean poured. The mystery is cleared away The eager saints arise, And lo! Our temple—towers today Rekindled in the skies. Old Fashioned ROYAL FRUIT CAKE Pay off the mortgage ©n the monthly payment loan we offer to home owners, owning prop- | HOLIDAYS erty in the choice resiLake, Ogden and Provo, necessary part of the joyous Yuletide season. Just ask your grocer for a ROYAL FRUIT CAKE. It's made with nine different kinds of fruit— and fresh eggs and creamery butter! Order from your grocer Made by the makers of LONG ROYAL BREAD No Commission No Red Tape, | Ashton-JenkinsCo. £ ROYAL BAKING F Correspondents Equitable COMPANY Life Assurance Society of the United States. 4 Salt Lake City and Ogden Te Cpt WIQYYINGS Both are Here, Be it an Appropriate Book or Other Gift— or Just the Paper-Seals, Tags and Ribbonzene to Wrap your Gifts— Your Every Xmas Need Can be Supplied by DESERET BOOK COMPANY P. O. Box 179344 East On South Temple St.—Salt Lake City, Utah "When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine your home by way of dential deistricts of Salt Get one for the An old-fashioned fruit cake is a After A Million Years BLUE Sesgo MILK / Puddings Pies ""¢ Custar BLAZE COAL Comes to you from _ glittering seams deep in the earth, filled with heat energy. IGNITES READILY BURNS STEADILY Remarkably free from smoke, ash and clinkers, Blue Blaze Coal Company ot ia What Shall I Give for Christmas? The Relief Society Magazine What could a dollar purchase that would be as acceptable as a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine? A subscription will be a monthly reminder of your love. Why not, as an organization, subscribe for the 'Relief Society Magazine for the widows in your Ward? Also for your lady missionaries? Note: Send the name and address where the Magazine is to be sent and your own name and we will send a card of greeting bearing your name to your friend. WHEN DOES YOUR SUBSCRIPTION EXPIRE? Why not subscribe now and make sure of receiving every number for the next year. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine 1102 Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah Creams Rival At All Grocer's | That reflect your /| Personatity i ERE you will find Cards in infinite va- | [keteeet riety of artistic designing and _ appropriate greetings.... Distinctive )} cards to express your indi- | viduality.... See this superb collection while it is complete.... Choose now..... ON Your name can be im.-. Printed on the Christmas cards you send out this year at very small additional cost. «+» We are prepared to take care of this for you, matching | your name with the type on the cards you select. Vv [fh e Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City REMEMBER: Select Your Cards Now a LE, ALREADY SUPERIOR— NOW BETTER STILL! "MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS. Equipped with STOP-LOSS POCKETS wear longer—give greater satisfaction The same famous "Mountaineer" quality of materials, design and workmanship—with these famous new pockets, which really protect your tools and ghee etc., included at no extra cost you. ' Ask for them at your Dealer's!. Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits (equipped with Stop-Loss Pockets) _ Are Manufacfured by Z C. M. I. CLOTHING FACTORY Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magabine MRS OLIVIA P sensen Si} 32RD EAST 103 WA ae mrTY vuTAK Exp (ite PARENTS— _Youul 7. Problem Solved | (or problem of selecting a college with which 1 2 { 4 entrust the business training of your sons and daughters is of the utmost importance. _ lives are involyed—your own flesh and ble and the training received will become an inseparable p of those lives. If good it will bring success and I if poor. It will prove a handicap for life.. 'The development of character is the chief aim of al a), education, and you lwant to be sure that, your sons - anc a 4 daughters will be surrounded by good influences. You | want them to gain in business integrity as well as ir a A knowledge and technical ability, and no matter how goo d their home training has been their character will be | ie fat fluenced by the-environment in which they' Sova b a), -, business education. Fe oe vitae At L. D. S. The maintenance of a al moral stan dard is considered of first importance, and' when 'you. Ent ' your sons and daughters to our, care you may be s that they will be surrounded by influences that will mak for upright manhood and: womanhood, as well as fo ro educational thoronghness. ° 4 A ' 4 Wea Doesn't this appeal to you? You cannot rial Wh: d i¢ dollars and cents the advantage of having your daughters: receive business training amid lev and refining influences. You need have no fear a ndin them to us alone, for we will take your place at ". After their mental, moral and_ physical' welfare, al »,-éam rest assured that when they leave: us they fully equipped for 'the fature'in evens ar =e Bi ane ass i ed " 4 ria ee Wty ' soorsesorooes:. When Bs 4 Mention ty 'i at wd