[Vol10 | October 1923 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: President Heber J. Grant (Portrait)]
President Heber J. Grant, the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
O God, the Eternal Father, we, thy servants and handmaidens, thank thee, in the name of Jesus Christ, thy well-beloved Son, with all the power of our being, that we are privileged this day to be present in this choice land, to dedicate unto thy most holy Name, a temple of the Living God.
We thank thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that thou and thy Son, Jesus Christ, did visit the boy, Joseph Smith, Jr., and that he was instructed by thee, and by thy beloved Son. We thank thee that thou didst send thy servant, John the Baptist, and that he did lay his hands upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and ordain them to the Aaronic, or Lesser Priesthood. We thank thee for sending thy servants Peter, James and John, Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, who ministered with the Savior in the flesh and after his crucifixion, and that they did ordain thy servants, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, and bestow upon them the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood, by which authority and apostleship we do dedicate unto thee, this day, this holy edifice.
We thank thee for the integrity and the devotion of thy servants, the Prophet and Patriarch, Joseph Smith and Hyrum Smith. We thank thee that they labored in thy cause all the days of their lives, from the time of the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ until the day of their martyrdom, and that they were faithful even to the sealing of their testimony with their blood.
We thank thee for thy servants, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith, who have severally stood at the head of thy Church since the martyrdom of thy servant Joseph Smith, and who have lead and directed thy people by the inspiration of thy Holy Spirit, and who have sent forth representatives to proclaim the everlasting Gospel in nearly every land and clime.
We thank thee for all the faithful members of the First Presidency of the Church, and for the Apostles, in this last dispensation; and for each and all of the faithful men who have ministered as general authorities of the Church.
O God, our Eternal Father, we pray thee to bless the Presi-


dency of thy Church?thy servants, Heber J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, and Anthony W. Ivins. May these men, O Father, be guided by the unerring counsels of thy Holy Spirit, day by day. May they be even as a three-fold chord that cannot be broken. May they see eye to eye in all matters for the upbuilding of the Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth.
Bless, O Father, each and all of the Apostles, the Presiding Patriarch, the First Council of the Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric. We particularly pray for thy choice blessings to be with President Charles W. Penrose and Elders Reed Smoot, Orson F. Whitney and David O. McKay, who are unable to be present on this occasion.
Bless, we beseech thee, those who preside in all the stakes of Zion, and in all the wards and branches of the Church, and over the various quorums of the Priesthood, whether of the Melchizedek or of the Aaronic Priesthood. Bless those, O Father, who have been called to preside and throughout the world, together with all thy servants and handmaidens who have gone forth to proclaim to the peoples of the world the restoration to the earth of the plan of life and salvation.
Bless these, O Father, who have been called to preside and labor in this temple and also in other temples that have been erected to thy Holy Name in the land of Zion and in the Hawaiian Islands. We thank thee for all the temples that have been erected in this last dispensation, and we pray thy choice blessings to be and abide with all those who minister therein. We pray that the same sweet Spirit which is present in all of the temples that have heretofore been erected may abide with all those who shall labor in this holy house.
Bless those who preside and who labor in the Church schools which have been established from Canada on the north to Mexico in the south, and in the far off islands of the Pacific Ocean.
Bless, O Father in Heaven, all thy servants and handmaidens who hold responsible positions in the various auxiliary organizations of thy Church, whether as general, stake, ward, or mission officers; in the Relief Societies, in the Sunday Schools, in the Mutual Improvement Associations, in the Primary Associations, and in the Religion Class organization. Bless each and every one who is laboring for the benefit of the members, as well as the members themselves, in these associations.
