[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: PRESS ASSOCIATION. | Author: Unknown]

PRESS ASSOCIATION.

	THE Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association has for its object (so says its
constitution) “the promotion of acquaintance,
good fellowship and co-operation among
the women writers this coast, and the
advancement of their professional interests.” 
All women are eligible tor active member-
ship, who are engaged professionially in
journalism— that is to say who write for
pay—and all who are engaged in literary
work, or in illustrating the same. All wo-
men who are simply interested in literary
or artistic work, and willing to labor for
the welfare of the association, are eligible
for associate membership. We have cer-
tainly thrown open the doors widely
enough, and a goodly number have come
in, among whom are some eminent names.
In the promotion of goodfellowship we
have enjoyed, and we believe conferred
much genuine pleasure.
	As to the work a press association should
do, there has been some variance of opinion
—a variance broadened by actual or rumor-
ed criticisms offered by our older associa-
tions composed entirely of men. For my-
self, I will remark just here, that because
we do our work in a way somewhat dif-
ferent to men, it is not necessarily inferior
to men’s work. The difference in work
and methods is a matter of environment
quite as much as of natural tendencies.
Men have fewer ever present cares than
women in the ranks of press writers. The
member of a men’s association usually is,
or assumes to be, only a press man, while-
the press woman frequently has besides
her literary work a school, a business or a
household on her hands. Even the enjoy-
ment of the stated meeting is marred by
the apprehension of a late dinner. The
man who has had the whole day to devote
to an article or articles on these subjects
which are plainly brought before him by
his associations has a great advantage over
the women, who while seeking to do a cer-
tain thing is distracted by having to give
her thoughts to affairs entirely foreign to
it.
	“Very well,” you say, “just that dif-
ference makes the man’s work superior”—
as in fact it might very reasonably do, and
without dispute frequently does do. Men
are in daily contact with the world’s great-
er affairs, or those which they choose to
consider greater; as questions of municipal
or national government, of our foreign
relations, of tariff reforms, or of “sixteen
to one.” But while they are struggling
with problems of shall we, or shall we not
have a double standard for money, women
handicapped as they are by a multiplici-
ty of cares are carrying on a campaign in-
tended to bring about a single standard in
morals. The question might, though it
should not be, raised, as to the comparative
mportance of the two aims; but it must ‘
be admitted that women have achieved
much of value to society in the narrow
sphere of activities, and in spite of a long

[Column 2]
and determind oppositions from the mascu-
line portion.
	About specialists—it has been objected
by some that we, as a Press Association
cannot with dignity lend ourselves to the
endorsements or even to the considerations
of  special subjects outside of the profes-
sion of literature. This is being in a way,
as narrow as those associations which ex-
clude everything but newspapers from
press work. How shall we better become
journalists, if that is our aim, than by dis-
cussion of the questions that relate to good
citizenship, of the progress of the race?
Yet I have been made unpleasantly aware
that on a recent occasion when a gentleman
who had been invited to address us on the
Silver Question, failed to keep his appoint-
ment, and the High Priestess of Woman
Suffrage who was present, kindly consent-
ed to fill the intellectual vacuum, there
was much dissatisfaction manifested. The
venerable woman before us declined to dis-
cuss silver because as she said she knew
“nothing about it except that she had never
had enough of of it,” but she gave us a
timely talk about things which deeply con-
cern women, and imparted to us facts
gathered from a lifetime of work in her
chosen field. The objectors declared that
suffrage speeches were not in order in a
Press Association; yet they were eager to
hear about silver and gold. What a fasci-
nating subject is money! Some one has
forcibly said that “Gold is the only idol
that is worshiped in all lands without a
temple, and by all sects without hypocri-
cy.”
	Why were we not prepared to close the
gap in our program for ourselves by a free
discussion of the popular religion of gold,
which is prefered to liberty? The news-
papers and magazines are teeming with
articles on the subject. Connot we get
as much out of this literature about money
as would enable us to discuss it? But not
having done so should we not—and cer-
tainly the majority of us did—thank the
woman who was prepared on another great
question to speak to us?
	What I desire to impress upon the
Association is that while we are in spirit
and effect a literary body, we must not be
too wholly literary, but that our best inter-
ests lie in the pursuit of practical infor-
mation. There must be a well developed
idea before there can be a literary product
of any value. While we analyze standard
authors, review new ones, or entertain
each other with our own performances in
prose and verse, we cannot afford to con-
fine ourselves to these dines. If, for in-
stance, instead of this we call upon our
kindergarteners to give us an illustrated
talk upon their methods of teaching; upon
our public-school teachers to enlighten us
on the merits and defects in the methods
pursued in the city schools; upon our art-
ists for a technical explanation of the art of
illustration; upon our professor of Botany
for a lesson in science, with an account of
her field work; upon our gifted astron-
omer for a prose-poem describing the fields
of heaven in which she labors while we


[Column 1]
sleep; upon those consecrated women who
while their names are upon our roll, are
devoting their lives to the rescue of the
young and unwary, and the betterment of
conditions of the poor in our own and other
cities—we should be constantly gaining
that kind of information for which every
writer, and especially every editor has a
practical use.
	When we have an outing or participate
in the outing of other organizations should
we not feel to discover something to write
up, which would be a just return for the
courtesies we have enjoyed as well as a
contribution to our own stock of ideas.
	The Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association by its earlier efforts brought
together on this Coast about one hundred
and fifty women of similar tastes and as-
pirations who, else would have known
little or nothing of each other. Aside from
the social pleasures derived from a personal
acquaintance, the numerical strength of the
new association was a triumph. It gave
intellectual women, isolated in various
parts of the country that faith in themselves
which was a much needed support.
	Although since that time the far south-
ern members have for convenience formed
a separate association, while some have re-
moved to wider fields of employment in
the East; and while a few have passed from
the labor of living to the unspeakable peace
of the Beyond, there are still over a hun-
dred in the present organization.
	If there had not been a Pacific Coast
Woman’s Press Association in existence,
much that was of interest to our women
would have been unrepresented at the
World’s Columbian Exposition, and there
would have been no Woman’s Congress in
California. Taking advantage of the
opportunity offered by the Mid-Winter
Fair in this State, the Association proposed
and affected the great undertaking whose
outcome was a surprise to everyoue in the
quality of the intellectual work done. I do
not mean to convey the impression that the
Congress was composed mainly of
members of the Association, but only
that it was projected and carried to consum-
mation by the efforts of certain of the most
prominent press women. The Congress
itself was a thoroughly representative body,
drawn from all parts of the coast, who
came together by invitation to express
themselves on a great variety of subjects.
The manner in which they acquitted them-
selves was a revelation to most people, dis-
covering, as it did, a latent power until
then unsuspected,
	I remember being much surprised by a
remark of the Evening Post reporter at the
close of the second day, that the women
“might have done this before if they had
only known it.” They know it now, and
they are never going back to the silence
and isolation of their former lives.
	Out of that special congress grew the
Woman’s Congress Association of the Pa-
cific Coast, which holds annual sessions. Its
Executive Board and Auxiliary Committee
are composed largely of the Press Associa-
tion. On its floor thoughtful women of all
ranks in life, of all religious creeds, of
every degree of culture, meet upon perfect
equality to give and receive of each others
best. Many decaying walls of prejudice
and usage have fallen which can never
again be erected, leaving a clear field for
future progress in all directions.
	As a proof of this, behold the great ad-

[Column 2]
vance which the suffrage movement receiv-
ed by allying itself with the Woman’s Con-
gress. Not that all the members of this
association, or the Congress Association are
Woman Suffragists—some of both are op-
posed to the ballot for women—but that
the congress gave an opportunity for that
fair debate which women in the past were
not allowed. It cannot be otherwise than
that this enlargement of our liberties shall
continue to broaden our intellectual view,
and with it the horizon of our souls. We
shall ultimately, too, come to get our opin-
ons by thinking, rather than as Mrs.
Browning says men get their’s, and boys
learn to spell, “by reiteration chiefly.”—
the reiteration of other peoples opinions,
which they also had adopted in the same
way. The world never did and never will
advance one step except by liberty in
thought. Let us therefore not fear to think
too freely, while we act discreetly. Some-
where between slavish submission, and ex-
cessive resistance to popular prejudices, the
real truth will be found.
	It is my hope and my belief that the
Pacific Coast Press Association has before it
a future even more useful than its past, but
should it not again find so happy a con-
junction of circumstances, it has done
enough to have made a place in history.
	I could not close this paper which from
its too specific nature I fear may have prov-
en wearisome to our guests, without ex-
pressing my conviction that no member
who has been, or may be compelled to sever
her connection with the association but
feels genuine regret at having to separate
from us. Although not to be mentioned
as of importance the social features of our
organization are sufficient to compensate
the members for any trifling sacrifices that
may be made in its interest. Its social
meetings and outings are marked by the
unconventional and cordial goodfellowship
which is one of the stated objects of our
union. There is talent enough amongst
ourselves, could we combine it, to enter-
tain our friends right royally; but usually
we have gone out into the highway and
brought in our friends to entertain us; per-
haps because we were fearful of not having
that “infinite variety” which “custom
cannot stale,” and prefered to withdraw
ourselves from view. If we have been too
literary to dance we have still piped and
sung, told stories and laughed at them,
cracked jokes and propounded riddles, im-
provised songs and by sharp concussion
struck sparks of wit from the flintiest of
us—in fact indulged in that mild sort of
high jinks which a woman's press associa-
tion might with propriety allow itself. To
all those who whether as hotel managers,
real estate or transportation companies,
have contributed to our pleasure from year
to year in the past, our grateful acknowl-
edgements are rendered, as also for that
which we are to enjoy this year.
	Nor could I close this paper without
voicing the sentiment of regret which I
am sure prevails among us, that rotation in
office while it gives us the officers of our
choice, retires those whom we have learned
to admire and love, not only for faithful-
ness to duty, but for their many charms of
person and character. There is, however,
this compensating feature with rule, that it
brings distinctly before us group after
group, giving us finally a thorough under-
standing of the whole. To our gracious
retiring president, and to each one who

[Column 3]
vacates her office this year, is extended our
heartfelt good will and affection. 
	FRANCES FULLER VICTOR.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


