[Vol1 | December 1914 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Genealogy and Testimony]

GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson IL Ten minutes talk on Current Events.
How to Secure More Genealogical Data: "For the children of this world are in their generation  wiser than the children of light." Luke, 16:8. "The greatest responsibility in this world, that God has laid upon us, is to seek after our dead. "Joseph Smith.
The people of the world have done vastly more in securing and preparing their genealogical data than the Latter-day Saints have done in utilizing that information and data in their temple work.
The libraries and printing offices of the world are engaged frequently in storing and publishing the family 6 histories, and parish and church records, which antiquarians in Europe and America have prepared for this purpose.
The Prophet Joseph Smith has told us that The greatest responsibility in this world, that God has laid upon us, is to seek after our dead." Write to all your relatives at home and abroad for information concerning theirs and your dead relatives.
Ask them for names and dates, and all historical facts which they can remember or secure.
If they do not answer promptly, write again, and if they still are dilatory, write again.
Always enclose a stamped envelope for reply.
This is an invariable rule in correspondence.
Keep on writing for information.
It might be said that one is to write for information as often as one is to forgive one's enemy, and that was seventy times seven.
Write the Genealogical Society, Salt Lake City, Utah; state your facts and difficulties; ask for information.
They may not be able to supply it, but you will certainly receive a courteous answer.
Join the Genealogical Society of Utah.
This will prove of much help spiritually for you in your work for the dead.
Truth is truth, whether you believe the truth or not.
The gospel is true whether you embrace it or not, but if you are converted to its truth, and go down into the waters of baptism, wonderful powers and gifts and blessings will follow your entrance into the Kingdom of God.
In like manner, you may be converted to the necessity of working for your dead, or you may not be.
That does not alter the truth or the principle of salvation for the dead, nor lessen the spiritual value of membership in the Genealogical Society of Utah.
If you will take out a membership in that society a flood of genealogical light and inspiration and assistance will come to you on all sides, and from many hidden sources.
Practically speaking, your membership in that society at $1 a year entitles you to free study in the library, while you secure the services of the trained genealogist at a reduction of 40 cents an hour.
Your subscription to the Genealogical Magazine is, $1.50 a year, if you are not a member, and it is only $1 a year, if you are.
Whatever you do or do not do, be sure to prepare the data already in your possession, in the manner indicated in these lessons.
Group your families in proper form, giving all the data obtainable, record sources of information and relations-hip to the heir, number them properly and after having written all your data in your lead pencil note-book, then copy with ink in your record book for temple use.
If all you who have followed these lessons will take the counsel given in this last lesson, we will promise you freely  that the good spirit will constantly lead your mind to those persons and places where you can secure further light and information concerning your dead.
You may experience difficulties, you may find obstacles in your path, but if you will persist, the angels will assist you, your dead will pray for you, and finally, you will achieve such a labor as will crown your whole life here and hereafter with perfection and peace.
DecemberHOME ETHICS AND GARDENING Lesson IIL Ten minutes talk on Current Events.
Ethics The Christmas Spirit: Christmas Greeting to our Relief Society sisters.
Loving thoughts, good will toward all.
After reading of the birth, life, suffering and death of Christ, one cannot fail to appreciate more fully the causes for celebrating his birthday.
His biography from the night the Star appeared in the heavens, when the Shepherds of Judea were tending their herds in the vicinity of Bethlehem, down to that period of time when he was betrayed and crucified, is one of the saddest, as also, the most interesting stories of which poet or historian ever gave us record.
It touches the heart and awakens the deepest sympathy that frail mortal is capable of experiencing.
Following him through vicissitudes or childhood, we have but the meagre accounts of his home life and associations, yet we have the rich influences of his association with the poor unfortunates, his never failing humility and charity, and one is lost in reflection.
These, together with his humble parentage, the want, privation and frugal habits of his life present themselves and then we see later how he was besieged by enemies; and seeming friends, persecuted and scoffed at; yet, how patiently he bore the sneers, sarcasms, and unjust taunts of all.
Grandly living by precept and example, he gloriously died on the Cross to save the sinners of the world meanwhile pleading; with his Father for their forgiveness, when he was suffering the most excruciating pain at their hands that a human being could be called upon to experience.
And while the Romans would have set him free, and spared his life, and their governor, Pontius Pilate, would have honorably and justly exonerated him, yet his own people, the sons of Judea, cried out, Let his blood be upon us, he must surely die!" When we contemplate these facts, and compare his life! 8 with our own selfish, careless, and indifferent way of laboring and living, we cannot help wishing that we had better improved our time, and had shown ourselves more worthy; for Christ's life was a good, grand, noble, unselfish and maganimous one His character was without a blemish; not one single wrong act, deed, wish, or even thought, marred the purity of its whiteness.
Therefore, let us never fail to commemorate and celebrate his birthday let us teach our children to honor and revere his; name, while we constantly cherish and make indelible the remembrance, of his mission here on earth.
What an extensive and elaborate definition has this day of all other days, to the juvenile mind.
It is the one great event of the year, and includes untold wonders and unexplained pleasures.
The brightest dreams of childhood, the most innocent anticipations of babyhood concentrate upon the coming holiday.
The Christmas trees and dear old Santa Claus' visit to the chimney corner, where hangs the varied-colored and many-sized stockings of the anxious little ones, show that these feelings are shared by babies all, whether the occupants dwell in palace or dreary hovel.
Then comes the dainty, blushing maiden in her teens, along with the comely gallant near her own age, their thoughts are all in a flutter, for 'tis not toys and sweetmeats they are looking for, but their tastes turn to books, music, painting, poetry, etc., aside from the opera, theatre, and ball which they anticipate attending at Christmas time during vacation.
Papa and mama have also their hopes, loves and fond expectations.
Perhaps there is a neglected or long-forgotten life-dream to be again awakened, a chord in the heart once more to vibrate in that inner harmony.
Christmas is ever an appropriate period to reunite the members of the home circle to; strengthen the weak, and to banish any little unpleasantness that may have disturbed our intercourse in the past.
It will make us better men and women to extend charity and sympathy to one another.
Even on this day, grandpa and grandma come in for their full share of consideration.
They have their joyous thoughts of past happy periods, when their own genial, glowing fireside sheltered a host of bright-faced sons and daughters, and who now look with pleasure to the coming Merry Christmas, surrounded by generous, loving, healthy grandchildren who, to be sure, never forget to pray and send word to Santa Claus to fill to the brim their grandparents' stocking with pretty, also useful presents.
 HOME ETHICS.
I.
Christmas greetings to our Relief Society sisters.
II.
One should read, study and give sincere attention to the birth, life, and mission of our Savior.
III.
Follow him through all the different vicissitudes from birth until his crucifixion.
IV.
Ater doing this, one can more fully appreciate the greatness, beauty, and magnificence of Christ's character.
V.
Why we celebrate this day.
VI.
How the children, old and young, papas and mamas, and grandparents, join in its observance.