SCENE I. PARLOR

	(Lucy, Marian and Mr. Tom. Lucy sewing, Marian
reading, and Tom making funny shadows on the wall.)
	Mrs. Devenish. (Enters.) I see, my child-
ren, that you are pretty well engaged. I will
join you, and as we are likely to be alone this
evening, I think it will be profitable to review
the day that has passed into eternity.
	Lucy. Yes, ma, that will be very interest-
ing.
	Marian. (aside.) O dear! I thought I was
going to have such a good time reading this
new novel.
	Tom. (aside, with a comical glance at Mari-
an.) Now for a lecture from Aunt Susan.
	Mrs. D. Well, my dear Lucy, what good
have you done to-day?
	Lucy. Not much, ma; I often think of what
I read in the Bible: When I try to do good
evil is ever present with me.
	Tom. O, you naughty puss! did you not
take some nice beef tea to sick Mary Gray, and
help poor Granny Morris across the street?
	Marian. You know, Cousin Tom, Lucy is
always pretending that she does no good. This
appears to me like affectation.
	Lucy. It was so little, I had forgotten all
about it.
	Mrs. D. What are you doing now, Lucy?
	Tom. She is making a dress for little Lucy
Gray over the way; while Marian and I are
perfect idlers. Eh, Marian?
	Marian, (pouting.) I cannot imagine how
you can tell what I am doing, when you are
watching Lucy all the time.
	Mrs. D. Do not mind him, dear; we all
know cousin Tom. Tell me, Marian, how you
have spent the day.
	Marian. I finished a novel the first thing
this morning; then I looked over my dresses to
see what would be suitable to wear at Mrs.
Bond's party next week; and, ma, I have not
one fit to be seen.
	Tom. How now, coz, I thought the dress-
maker brought you home a gray silk last
week.
	Marian. Gray silk, indeed, I look a perfect
fright in it; and that reminds me that I saw to-
day a lovely blue at the dressmaker's. It will
just suit my complexion	Do, please, buy it
for me, ma.
	Mrs. D. If you need a new dress you may
have it.
	Tom. Then I am sure she will not get it,
for she has about a dozen now; many more
than Lucy.
	Mrs. D. What do you know about ladies,
dresses, Tom? Lucy can have one if she
wishes.
	Lucy. I do not need a dress, ma, but if you
will give me the money I will buy a shawl for
poor old Granny Morris; the weather is so cold
that she needs one very much.
	Marian. Pshaw! A shawl for Granny
Morris. I would be ashamed to dress as shab-
by as you do, to make people believe that I
was so much better than others.
	Mrs. D. For shame, Marian, your sister
does not dress shabby. She is economical, and
that enables her to help the poor. Lucy is al-
ways willing to sacrifice her own comfort to
benefit others. I am sure her motives are pure.
I wish you were more like her. But let us
change the subject. Cousin Tom, what mis-
chief have you done to-day?
	Tom. Let me see; I ran the chickens up the
hill to make them lay, rode the calf, and—
and—
	Marian. Ha, ha! I would like to see the

[Column 2]

chickens and calf. You must have taken a
ride on the ears this morning, cousin Tom.
	Tom. Aunt Susan, what do you think? As
I was coming home to-day I heard that a Mor-
mon Elder was going to preach in the Assem-
bly Rooms in St. George St. to-morrow night.
Do let us go and see what kind of people they
are.
	Marian. The newspapers say they are such
dreadful creature. I wonder what they look
like! Only think! they have more than one
wife! How shocking!
	Mrs. D. We must not believe all that the
newspapers say. I think we will go and hear
for ourselves. I am not satisfied with our re-
ligion. It is not like that which our Savior
and His Apostles taught.
	Lucy. But, ma, you would not leave our
church and the good old minister we have
known so long, for these despised Mormons?
	Mrs. D. I did not say I would; yet, my
child, I would receive the truth if I could find
it, even if it came from these depsised Mor-
mons.
	Marian. O ma! the papers say this people
are low and corrupt.
	Mrs. O; My, dear, our Savior, who was the
purest being that ever lived on the earth, was
despised and rejected, and was called a wine
bibber and a triend of publicans and sinners,
by religious people in His day.
	Marian. I know I love the the things of this
world and am not like you or Lucy; yet, ma, I
do not wish to see you led away by this people.
	Mrs. D. If the ministers preached the gos-
pel of Jesus Christ I would be satisfied; but
they do not.
	Tom. Aunt Susan, I am astonished to hear
you say so; I think they preach just splendid;
so much so, that I do not half understand what
they mean.
	Mrs. D. You are quite right, my boy. They
preach flowery sermons that they may please
the ears of the monied ones, and fail to give
comfort to the poor and those who are search-
ing after truth. Many of our ministers answer
well the description given of them by the pro-
phets, they preach for hire and divine for mon-
ey.
	Marian. What is the gospel?
	Lucy. The gospel is good news or glad ti-
dings.
	Tom. What is the good news, Lucy? I
suppose you can tell me, for I often see you
reading the Bible.
	Lucy. The Bible says that God so loved the
world, that He gave His only Begotten Son to
die for the sins of the world, that through the
shedding of His blood we may be saved.
	Tom. Have we not something to do our-
selves?
	Lucy. Yes; we must believe on the Lord
Jesus Christ.
	Marian. I have a faint recollection of read-
ing somewhere that we must repent and be
baptized. I am sure I do not know how to re-
pent. Do you, Tom?
	Tom. I repented very sincerely last week
that I had not studied more when I found that
James Brown instead of myself received the
long coveted prize.
	Marian. Please tell us, ma, how we are to
repent.
	Mrs. D. We must be sorry that we have
committed sin and be determined, with the
help of the Lord, that we will do so no more.
	Tom. I do not see why we need be baptized
when we were sprinkled in our infancy.
	Mrs. D. I have never read in the Bible
about baptism by sprinkling, but it distinctly
states, in many places, that those that were
baptized went down into the water.
	Tom. (yawning.) I'm so sleepy. Let us go
to bed.
	Mrs. D. Yes, it is time for us to retire, I
think we have spent a very profitable evening.


(Column one)
﻿Lucy. Will you go to-morrow night to hear
this Mormon preach?
	Mrs. D. Yes, my children, we will go. Let
us ask the Lord to give us wise and under-
standing hearts, that if this man has the truth
we may receive it.

