RELIEF SOCIETIES ABROAD.

		BERNE, Switzerland.
	Thinking it might interest the readers of the
EXPONENT to know something about the doings
of their sisters in this foreign land, I have pre-
pared a brief report of the organizations at pres-
ent existing among the sisters of the Swiss and
German Mission.
	Though the advantages here for the working
of a Society are few and simple compared with
those possessed by the women of Zion, yet our
busy, industrious Swiss sisters lose no opportu-
nity of doing everything possible in the designa-
ted capacity, and are rapidly preparing them-
selves for the greater privileges which they hope
to enjoy when once gathered to the land, to
which their longing eyes are so often and so
earnestly turned. It will b[---] that such in-
stitutions are comparatively new in this com-
munity, and are consequently more or less of a
novelty, particularly as they give so decided a
contradiction to the idea that the Latter-day
Saint women are held in the most galling bond-
age, and have no rights and privileges whatev-
er. The Elders from Utah take great interest
in the prosperity and well-being of the Societies,
and encourage the sisters by attending the
meetings and imparting instruction and counsel
as it may be required, while the sisters on their
part feel very happy in their assembling togeth-
er, and seek continually to make progress in
the strict obedience of the commandments of
the Lord. I know less about the other Societies
than about this one in Berne; but I am assured
that not a few of the present members of the
Church here, heard the first testimony respect
ing the restoration of the Gospel, and received
the first prompting to give ear to, and embrace
the same, in the SISTER'S MEETINGS.
	As yet there are no Societies organized in Ger-
many, but they will, I am told, be speedily in-
troduced into the branches there as well as in
many parts of Germany where it has heretofore
been neglected.
	I submit herewith translated reports of the
Societies as published in the "Stern" of Febru-
ary 1st:
	The first Relief Society organized in this mis-
sion was that of Berne. It was organized by El-
der P. F. Goss, on the 30th of June, 1882. Not-
withstanding that it has lost many members
through the emigration, the Society still shows
a total membership of 39. Regular meetings
are held every fortnight; in one meeting the
sisters speak and bear testimony, and in the
other the sisters report the districts to which
they have been assigned. They impart instruc-
tions about caring in a better manner for the
household, and taking more pains in rearing
their families. In addition to these meetings,
work meetings are occasionally held. The last
report, dated the 14th of January, stated that
the cash on hand amounted to Frs. 26.32, and
they had had an outlay during the preceding
six months of Frs. 33.60. The officers are: Ro-
sina Stiener, President; Magdalena Meyer and
Maria Schneider, Counselors; and Sophia Kind-
lisbacher, Secretary.
	The Relief Society of Schaffhausen was or-
ganized by Elder Alvis Bauer, on the 5th of
February, 1883. Though a very small Society,
it has shown itself a very industrious and ac-
tive one. Since the organization thirty six
meetings have been held, most of which were
work meetings. The number of members is at
present but seven, yet through the untiring en-
deavors of the energetic president, Sister Burga
Haage, and those few sisters, much good has

[Column 2]

been done by this little society. They stare
with a working capital of Frs. 4.60, which they
have been able to increase nine fold. They have
extended assistance to some of their emigrating
members, and have purchased many useful
Christmas gifts for the needy children of the
branch.
	The Relief Society of Scherli was organized
on the 24th of September, 1883, by Elder John
Stucki. During their short existence as a socie-
ty they have held seven meetings, which have
tended to encourage and strengthen them, and
they express themselves as having much im-
proved by these meetings, and hope soon to hold
the work meetings and be better able to help
each other in different ways, as the other socie-
ties have done. There are now eleven mem-
bers, Elizabeth Michel is president; Eliza Kohl-
er and Katharina Michel, Counselors; and Anna
Eliza Michel, Secretary
	The Relief Society of Sinach was organized
on the 3rd of February, 1884, by Alvis Bauer;
there are ten members. The officers are: Bar-
bara Naef, President; Maria Freiz and Bacetta
Fischer, Counselors; and Rosina B. Bashardt,
Secretary.
	The Annual Conference of the Swiss and Ger-
man Mission was held in Berne on the 23rd and
24th of December, 1883, which were happy days
for the people of the Central, Southern and
Western Swiss branches. From all these differ-
ent parts the Saints had gathered in force and
had a glorious time together, singing the songs
of Zion, bearing testimonies and listening to the
valuable instructions imparted by the Elders.
The last evening of the Conference Dec. 24th.,
the sisters held their meeting. Eleven Elders
and one sister from Utah were present, and
there was a large attendance of Saints, besides
many strangers. Sister Steiner of the Berne
Society presided, and did so with coolness and
ease. Good and interesting testimonies were
borne, and words of encouragement offered by
the sisters in three different languages—the
English, French and German, to say nothing of
the different dialects of the latter, which might
almost be called so many more languages—all
of which made the meeting still more interest-
ing. They seemed no less delighted than aston-
ished to hear that in Zion a Hospital had been
founded under the auspices, and was conducted
by the sisters, and that efforts were being made
to teach the Lamanite Sisters cooking, sewing,
knitting, etc. Excellent remarks were also made
by the Elders, and it was, in short, a most en-
joyable evening, such a happy and delightful
spirit prevailing that the hearts of all seemed
filled with joy and praise. Before the close I
joined the Elders from Utah in singing an Eng-
lish hymn, which we had done several times
during that and the preceding day, and which
seemed to be much appreciated by our Swiss
friends.
	The great benefit flowing from these Societies
is consequently beginning to make itself felt
here. The Sisters are more united and feel
cheerful and encouraged as they see that wom-
an has also a part to play in this great latter-day
work. They have discovered that in times of
sickness and need they are much help to each
other, and the brethren, also, are forced to ac-
knowledge that such an institution, where
rightly conducted and in the fulfillment of du-
ty, is a great support to the branch to which it
belongs.
	In the Sunday Schools also the Sisters join
with the teachers in getting up amusements,
and have manifested much liberality in giving
of their time and means for the preparation of
feasts and presents for the children at Christ-
mas.	
	May the blessings of the Lord attend the Re-
lief Societies now in existence, as well as those


which may hereafter be organized, and that
great good may thereby be accomplished, is the
sincere wish and the prayer of one who shall ev-
er feel the greatest interest in the welfare of the
Relief Societies of the Saints.
	ANNIE W. CANNON.
Feb. 15th., 1884.


