MY DEAR YOUNG SISTDRS:
	I feel my inability for the task before me,
but at the same time I feel it a duty incumbent
upon me to try what I can do towards improve-
ment.
	We are members of this our Mutual Im

[Column 2]
provement Association, and as such it is our
duty to try by every means in our power to
improve onrselves, and by improving ourselves
we will, by the help of the Spirit of the Lord,
be better qualified to teach and instruct
others.
	This Association was organized especially
for the benefit and improvement of the young
folks, and there is now a duty binding upon us
to strive with all our might to cultivate our
minds and improve the talents our Father in
Heaven hath bestowed upon us, and if we
prayerfully ask for His guidance and direc-
tion in every matter He will help us. Our
faith will become stronger and our understand-
ings will be enlarged, and we will become more
able to comprehend the wise teachings of the
servants of the Lord from time to time as they
are laid before us.
	We have each of us obeyed the first princi-
ples of the Gospel and had hands laid upon
us for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and as
our minds expand we will be able to receive
greater blessings, and our understandings will
become enlarged, and by the aid of the Spirit
of the Lord we will receive line upon line, pre-
cept upon precept, here a little and there a lit-
tle.
	Let us try to faithfully discharge our duties,
neglecting none. "Remember our secret
prayers, for they will be a protection for us
over the powers of the evil one, and will help
us to overcome our imperfections and the weak-
nesses that doth so easily beset us." Do let us
observe the words of wisdom, as instructed by
the servants of the Lord. Their teachings
ought to be the word of the Lord to us, and it
is our duty to give heed to the same. Now is
the time for us to observe these things, while
we have youth on our side and no obstacles in
our path. Let us shun every appearance of
evil, or anything that would be likely to draw
us away from the truth. Cleaving unto right-
eousness with all our might and mind, showing
kindness to one another, and overlooking each
others' fanlts, and striving to uproot our own.
If we do this in the spirit of meekness and hu-
mility the Lord will help us, and our reward
will be great. Amen.				TINA.
	Manuscript Paper, The Gem, Mt. Pleasant.

