THE "SEE-SAW."

	This little poem was read by the author at an even-
ing's entertainment in the City of Washington in Feb-
ruary, 1877, at the residence of a minister of that place
The lady presented it to O. F. Whitney as a souvenier
of the evening. He was then on a visit to that city and
attended the soiree with and by the invitation of a lady
residing in that city, the aunt of James McKnight, who
showed him every possible attention, and treated him
with the greatest politeness. The poem is a sort of
reminisence to him of the pleasant days he passed in
Washington society.

	See-saw! see-saw!
You go up and I go down;
	This was the law of the old see-saw;
And the merry feet, with impulsive bound,
Sprang up as oft as they touched the ground;
	And you or I were in the sky
		In the days when we played see-saw.

	No need was there of the cunning, rare,
		That fashioned the modern toys,
A plank that was broad, and pliant, and long,
A friendly log, or a fence that was strong,
		And a bevy of girls and boys;
	And they rose and fell with their laughter's swell,
		Or balanced on equal poise.

	Those favored few, whose childhood knew
		The freedom of country law,
Can never forget the gleeful thrill
As they bounded aloft at their own sweet will
		Like a thistle-down, or a straw,
	Then sank like a kite from its airy flight,
		In their seat on the old see-saw.

	That happy day has passed away
		In the order of nature's laws,
And the log that bore our balanced weight,
And the plank that bent 'neath its merry freight,
		Have bowed to the same great cause;
	Yet you and I, now low, now high,
		Still tilt on the world's see-saws.

	In the pulsing heart of the busy mart,
		Where power is bought with gold,
There's a sink and a swell in the surging crowd;
There are curses deep, and plaudits loud;
		For the game is brief and bold,
	And while some ride on the crest of pride,
		Lo! others lie stark and cold.

	There rises and falls in yon gay halls
		The plank of our social life;
And who shall grace the patrician end,
And who the plebeian half shall bend,
		Is the problem of endless strife,
	In which nature's tie, though deep it lie,
		Is severed with pitiless knife.

	There comes, too, an honr, when the balance of power
		Is lost in the Senate Hall;
And reverend Senators, wise and grave,
Whose boast is their country's honor to save,
		With the see-saw rise and fall;
	And happy their lot, if perchance it be not
		To lie under oblivion's pall.

	How blest 'twould be, could we only see
		The world at balance ride!
So justly poised in genuine worth
That brains should always equal birth,
		When tested side by side;
	Then social see-saws well might be
		Exponents of equality.

