THE NICKEL FUND

Editor Woman's Exponent:

	We wrote you some time ago in regard to the
"Widows Mite,"now comes neither the isn't 
nor the least, the "Nickel Fund."
	The subject of these few lines may seem rath-
er insignificant, but as
	Little drops of water, and little grains of sand,	
	Make the mighty ocean and the bounteous land,

so in this case, the fund in question has grown
to the magnitude of upwards of $2,300 00; the
origin and history of the fund being as follows;
Shortly after the organization of the Cache Val-
ley Stake of Zion in 1877, under the presidency
of Elder Moses Thatcher, he was moved upon
to inaugurate a temple fund among the Sunday
Schools of this Stake, which has proved a success
in every sense of the term. It has taught the
young the great principle of pemple building,
and united their interest with their parents, by 
putting their nickels to a better use than the
purchasing of toys and confectionary. The
names of several thousand children will be re-
corded in the archives of this temple, which
will gain them a common interest with their
parents and guardians. During the period of
time the temple has been in course of erection
it has become a household phrase when a child
became the possessor of a nickel or dime to hear
it say, "Pa, or ma," as the case might be, "I
shall give it to the Temple."
	What a beautiful sight indeed to have seen
so many Sunday School children in each Sun-
day School of this Stake of Z[-]on upon a Sabbath
morning, with the gleam of satisfaction upon
their faces, gracefully pay over their contribu-
tions to the treasurer of the Sunday School for
the purpose of aiding the temple.
	The above well illustrated and valuable prin-
ciples of unity has been achieved by the untir-
ing efforts of the officers and members of the
several Sabbath Schools.
	We contemplate when the temple is comple-
ted of publishing a lst of contributions of the
several schools of this stake, which we antici-
pate will be a good showing in their behalf, giv-
ing the youth of Israel quite an interest in the
temple, an appreciation of which is well illus-
trated in the following incident: When the
walls of the temple had reached the square, a
little boy—a Sunday School scholar—visited the
block and desired to go upon the scaffolds to look
at the building, the guard, however, had been
instructed to keep small children off the scaffold,
and so informed the boy, who replied that he
had paid his nickels to the temple, and thought
he had a right to go and see it. The argument
was irresistible, and the guard allowed him to
pass and feast his eyes upon the walls and scaf-
folding of the building, which he did with great
complacency.
	Yours Respectfully,
		C. O. CARD.
Logan Temple Office, Feb. 29th., 1884.


"Mrs. Ole Bull, with her little daughter
Olea, will visit Norway again this summer.
The young daughter of the great musician, a
girl of twelve years, inherits much of his geni-
us, and is already an accomplished performer
on the violin."


[Column 1]

