BY DR. E. S. BARNEY.

	Bathing may be considered from a two fold
point of view; as hygiene, or as a means of
preserving health, by keeping the skin in a
state fit for performing its functions, and as a
therapeutic agent of great power, or for the
cure of diseases.
	In a general sense it means the immersion of
the body in a fluid different in kind or temper-
ature from the common air. Water is the or-
dinary medium employed for baths, but vapor
and heated air are likewise in use for the pur-
pose.
	The great use of bathing must be obvious
when we consider that the skin is not to be re-
garded as a mere covering of the body, but as
an organ, the healthy condition of which is of
vast importance to the well being of the whole
frame, but especially of the stomach and liv-
ing membrane of the lungs, with which as mu-
cous membrane, it has the closest sympathy;
in which, if chronic inflamation exists, a cold
bath should not be used. When we consider
the anatomy of the skin, that in each papilla
of the skin is located the terminal extremity of
a nerve, then we can realize why a restless
child can so quietly sleep after the soothing ef-
fect of a short warm morning both; and a
tired, fevered man after a hard days work can
arise in the morning so refreshed and invigora-
ted, having had a cool or warm bath the night
before; it lowered the temperature, removed
the soreness of the flesh, the irritableness of
the nerves.
	The temperature of the human frame, in a
state of health, continues nearly the same in
whatever circnmstance it is placed. The tem-
perature of an adult is generally from 97° to
98 1\2°; the latter is called normal. In some
cases of disease it is above this standard, in
other conditions it sinks far below. The func-
tion by which the body is enabled to preserve
this uniformity of temperature are intimately
connected with the nervous system, and the
respiratory organs by which heat is developed.
The skin performs the function of regulating
it, especially in reducing it when too high.
When the body is placed in a medium, or low-
er temperature than itself, the heat is abstract-
ed more or less rapidly from the surface, which
would have the effect of chilling it were not
this counteracted by the internal development.
(Should never use cold baths at night after the
fatigue of the day, but warm water instead, as
the frame then requires soothing.) When sur-
rounded by an aëriform medium much higher
than itself, the exhalation from the surface,
both of the skin and lungs are greatly aug-

[Column 2]

mented; that from the skin being thrown off in
sensible and insensible prespiration, that from
the lungs in the form of vapor, the evapora-
tion attending these processes occasion a reduc-
tion of temperature. The quantity of water
thus disposed of in twenty-four hours is esti-
mated at 1 1\2 pints. The skin is capable of re-
moving, when acting in harmony with the laws
of life, in the same length of time, by the esti-
mate of Lavoisier, 20 oz. of waste; the reten-
tion of this from unchanged clothing and other
causes results in injury to the system; if this
channel is neglected it becomes dry and harsh
and unfit for its functions; some other organs
must then supply its place; as the kidneys, but
this organ may have too much to do, thus
working for both, and may become diseased;
in fact neglect of cleanliness is the most fertile
source of disease, both of the skin itself and
other parts. Cleanliness in our habitation is
as necessary to health as personal cleanliness.
Some people are too indolent to bathe at all,
and some at different times of the day before
and after breakfast, another will persist in tak-
ing a cold shower bath before breakfast; it may
thus invigorate or debilitate. There is a pro-
cess in the system which is called the excreting
process; now if this is deficient in its action and
a retention in the system from closed pores,
and a glued substance over those pores, then
the health becomes impaired. Remove the
scales of the dead epidermis and the effete ma-
terial and prevent its absorption, and keep the
pores open, especially in fever; then apply oil
to soften the skin and allay irritation of the
nerves and aid nutrition by absorption.
	The sea ebbs and flows twice a day, but the
great river of life ebbs and flows once in twen-
ty-four hours, attaining its maximum height at
12 m., and its minumum at midnight, hence,
at 11 a.m. is a good time to take a bath before
dinner. 
	How often should a healthy person bathe?
Twice a week in winter months, and every
other day in summer months. Young child-
ren breathe but imperfectly through the lungs,
hence, depend on the skin for a portion of the
arëation of the blood, and they should be
bathed every day in warm water, in a warm
room, and not exposed to cold, always using the
thermometer, for if too hot water is used it wiil
be very depressing. Delicate, feeble persons
of all ages require a higher temperature of a
bath, and a shorter stay in it than others, as
85° or 90°. Baths, when properly conducted,
are a luxury, and a child will crave it and
leap from its mother's lap with joy on its ap-
proach; it only injures them by improper appli-
cation; hence, children should be accompanied
in their baths with an adult, in order to regu.
late the manner of their bath. From the child
that has his face and neck washed every morn-
ing in cold water you seldom hear a complaint;
But a person wearing the "boa," and is doubly
wrapped is constantly exposed. View the sai-
lor, who accustoms himself to an open collar,
his skin is prepared to resist exposure of the
open sea. Nothing is better to harden and
toughen the tender skin than water and air;
this fact being recently considered, the surgeon
does not hasten to wrap, but exposes the ex-
tremity of an amputated limb. The cold bath,
when used by a person in health, increases the
tone of the habit, strengthens the digestive or-
gans, and by diminishing the sensibility of the
whole system, especially of the skin, ren-
ders it less susceptible to atmospheric impres-


[Column 1]

sions from cold, wet and sudden changes of
temperature—thus contributing to what is
termed a robust, or athletic constitution;
hence, the beneficial effects of using a cold bath
daily, and that in the early morning when just
out of bed by surgeons, and those exposed to
frequent changes of climate. The coldness
and length of the bath should be used accord-
ing to the vigor, and debility, and age of the
person. When the shock, as a stimulus to the
nervous system in case of debility, is the prin-
ciple desired, the water should be very cold,
and the time of remaining in the bath only mo-
mentary; the water may be even dashed on,
and immediately and thoroughly dried to bring
on the reaction; by reaction I mean a sensation
of warmth, after the cold of the first immer-
sion. The fluids are repelled from the surface
to the internal organs, which are thus stimula-
ted and roused to action, in consequence of
which the blood is propelled through the whole
capillary system, more particularly of the sur-
face, carrying with it life and renovated ener-
gy. At first the skin shrinks, becomes cooler
and paler, and the respirations are more hur-
ried than before; but this is almost immediately
succeeded by an equally universal sensation of
warmth, or a reaction; if the water is left be-
fore a second attack of cold or chill the pulse
becomes fuller and stronger than before immer-
sion. The skin recovers the plumpness it has
lost, and is succeeded by a feeling of buoyancy,
and an increased animal power. No second
glow ever succeeds the second chill, above men-
tioned, but the debility increases with the
length of immersion.
	A cold duck is sometimes used to sluggish
ulcers.
	If to obviate the shock instantly applied to
the body, and the object is to obtain a refresh-
ing action as in febrile diseases, and inflammation,
water should be applied at first, not suddenly,
only cool and with a sponge, repeating the ap-
plication till the desired effect is produced.
	The amount of reaction depends on the cold-
ness and length of time. One says that a cold
bath is stimulating; another a sedative, or even
debilitating; so it may be, but the truth is, it is
the mode of using it; whether salt or fresh, hot
or cold, and the condition of the patient, the
time of a bath should not be more than ten or
twenty minutes. After a cold bath there
should be a reaction, if not it is injurious; if
the strength of the patient is exhausted then
it would be debilitating; while to another, in
full vigor, it would be a tonic in the highest de-
gree, and this is in proportion to the vigor of
the circulation on the surface. With feeble
circulation and cold extremities, should not
use the cold bath, unless improving the circula-
tion and warmth, before entering by an inter-
nal remedy or exercise. The whole effect of a
bath may be distinguished into, 1st, the shock,
the effect of which is stimulating; 2nd, the cool-
ing effect; 3rd, the counteracting or astringent
effect; 4th, the reaction.
	Cold bathing may be applied so as to insure
one or the other of these actions over any of
the rest, according to circumstances, when all
are not desired. The most important circum-
stance respecting a bath of any kind is its tem-
perature.
	Cold, sea bathing is a sedative, an indirect
tonic. The warm bath is a relaxant. The hot
bath a stimulant.
	Cold bath is from 33° to 60°; cool, from 60°
to 70°; temperate, 75° to 85°; tepid, 85° to 92°;
warm, 92° to 98°; hot, 98° to 112°; vapor, 100°
to 130°, and upwards. Tepid bath, used for
invalids and children, and for cleanliness, 20
or 30 minutes. Warm baths are slightly stim-
ulating, then soothing, and allay irritation of
the nerves, mends the pulse and appetite. Hot
baths are a powerful stimulant and one should
never remain in till exhausted; 5 or 10 minutes
arouses the nerves and general vital action.

[Column 2]

	Time of a bath for young children, 3 min-
utes. A child at 20 weeks, the temperature
should be above blood heat, 98 1/2°, or not less
than 92°. At 10 months, 90°. At 8 or 10
years, not below 78°, which is considered sum-
mer heat. In a high fever a person can be lift-
ed in a sheet and laid in a cold bath at 90°,
and cooled down to 68°, or about 20° less than
when placed in; it then produces the cooling ef-
fect instead of the shock, which might produce
too great a reaction for a debilitated person if
at once placed into the cold. Water can be
sprinkled on them from a watering pot, while
they are lying on an oil cloth, and hot bottles
can be placed at the feet at the same time. If
heat is abstracted from the body too rapidly it
may cause an exhausting effect on the part of
the system to keep up the temperature.
	One German professor said, when the pa-
tient's temperature was 104° to put them into a
bath of 94° and reduce it to 68°. Another
said, put them in 10 minutes, at 68°, and re-
peat it so as to keep down the temperature.
	In Vienna hospitals they put a patient into a
bath of 65° for 20 or 30 minutes, and repeat it
seven or eight times in twenty-four hours, and
it was reported that it was a very successful
treatment. If there is slight chilliness felt the
patient must be moved immediately to a warm
bed. Some of the hospitals in Germany put
their patients into a bath and let them stay so
long that the skin is fairly parboiled in appear-
ance. Rain water is nice for a bath, or a little
soda added to our common running water for
a soft bath. Bathing to prevent disease as a
medicine, it can be used as a tonic, a cool spray
regularly applied so as to produce the tonic ef-
fect. Heat, suddenly applied, will cause mus-
cular contraction. A nerve in a muscle dip-
ped in water 110° will contract violently.
Baths, as means of administering medicine, by
placing in the bath such substances as will
stimulate the skin. As an antipyretic cold
bath, vinegar has a good effect. Friction baths
can be used wet or dry—dilute alcohol, ammo-
nia, a little red pepper, either will be accept-
able. Keep a bottle filled with alcohol, sprin-
kle a little on crash, made in the form of
gloves, and with them rub the body, one's self
or by assistant. Some patients are chronic, or
aenemic, and too weak to produce a glow by
friction, then it must be done for them; for if
the glow is not produced after a bath it does
harm. Massage has proven to be of great val-
ue, sometimes, in cases of dyspepsia; the pa-
tient needs active action. Formerly cold baths
in lung diseases and typhoid fever, were contra
indicated, but not now considered so; yet in
case of ulceration of the bowels in typhoid fe-
ver, the moving of a patient in bathing might
cause perforation and serious results, and a pa-
tient being low, then the shock might paralyze
the heart, and death, or the lungs might be-
come engarged by a cold bath, and death take
place. Immersion in cold water to a delicate
person is not without possible injurious effects,
and may be followed by depression. A deli-
cate person should take a good breakfast an
hour or two before bathing. Care should be
taken in this as in all other therapeutic agents.
Wine in some cases can be given, as it relaxes
the capillaries of the surfaces, and while the cold
bathe drives the blood internally and contracts
the capillaries, the wine may benefit in this
case by dilating the capillaries, and thus invit-
ing the blood to the surface.
	In pneumonia and pleurisy the Germans use
cold compresses. An acid bath is used in some
Heptaic (liver) disease, 3 pints of muriatic acid
and 2 pints of nitric acid; use 1/2 teacupful to 2
gallons of water. Mercurial baths are good in
some cutaneous diseases. Electric baths are
good in paralysis; they excite or stimulate all
the functions, especially the circulation and
secretion. Iodine baths to produce a aubefaci-
ent, sometimes even to the pealing off of the

[Column 3]

skin, 3 quarts of Iodine, and twice as much
of Iodite of Potash, to 1 gallon of water. 
Vapor or Russian baths, water is placed over
a hot stone, and a patient will pass from them
to a cool or cold bath with pleasure. Used in
rheumatism and cutaneous affections, or a hot
duck bath of 110°, in rheumatism is used.
Water baths are used as an eliminative in dis-
eases of the kidneys; nothing removes the
watery secretions more effectual than the Tur-
kish bath, used with care, nothing is better, un-
less it is a Gabaranda sweat. A Turkish bath
is where there is a gradual increase of temper-
ature, after which the patient undergoes sham-
pooning.
	The skin is to the man what the foliage is to
the tree; a vast, external lung, with millions of
pores, of glandules and of papillae, and an im-
mense net-work of arteries and nerves. It is
the complement and supplement of the internal
lungs. With the aid of the Turkish bath the
skin breathes and transpires in place of the
lungs. There is an analogy between the skin
and mucous membrane, as the internal skin is
a continuation of the external, at the continu-
ity of which the epidermis is changed to epith-
elium. The external skin, modified by the
Turkish bath, becomes the modifier of the in-
ternal skin; hence a bath modifies and im-
proves digestion.
	Sweaty hands and feet are improved by
bathing them in cold water and then rubbing
them with a small quantity of the Tincture of
Belladonna. Cold feet are inproved by bath-
ing them in cold water, then apply rapid fric-
tion.
	Cold Sit Baths are in some complaints brac-
ing or tonic, twenty minutes at a time. If on
taking cold there may be Uremie convulsions,
sometimes just before death, where crystals
form on the body. A man had these crystals
form on his mustache as fast as wiped away, he
had convulsions and died in a few hours.
Baths, then, should be used to remove from
the blood urea and uric acid, as they are pois-
onous. In Eczema a person will have oxylu-
ria; whether one is the cause of the other is
not proven, but there is a condition of the skin
that hinders oxydation.
	What of sea bathing? The amount of good
derived from these watering places is principal-
ly from the change of air and scenery, diet,
etc, more than the bath. The exposure to cold
and the unsuited temperature of the water, and
the long remaining in the water, and that, too, 
sometimes when the body is over heated, is
positively injurious. Sometimes it has result-
ed in congestion of the internal organs, cramps
and spasms of some of the muscular organs, or
the muscles themselves, and in some cases pa-
ralysis of a greater or less portion of the body,
and the rays of the hot sun on the head while
in the water is also deleterious, sometimes pro-
ducing what is called sun stroke, and this may
result in paralysis. On the whole more harm
results from sea bathing than good, and young
people come in contact in these places with
a degree of immorality and vice. Sea bathing
is more beneficial where the water is shallow,
and has become warmed by the rays of the sun.
	A person bathing all over is less liable to
take cold than when only a portion of the body
is bathed. A sponge bath and a shower bath
are similar in effect. In no disease is a cold
bath more beneficial than in the intervals of
asthma. The chest may be sponged daily with
water, or vinegar and water; with friction it is
also good for common cough—but not suited
to those who have a tendency to consumption.
Its principal action is a preventative of catarrh
and cold. The best time for a spray is on get-
ting out of bed, when there is no perspiration;
it increases the appetite and digestion. Spong-
ing is more proper for delicate persons than a
shower bath, its effect is nearly similar. Ex-
clude the cold air.


