WILLINGNESS TO BE TAUGHT.

	If there is a royal road to learning it must
certainly be found where there is a willingness
to be taught. Once find a willing pupil and
the principal stumbling-blocks in the pathway
of the teacher are removed.
	The greatest barrier in the high road of pro-
gress is unwillingness to learn. Hence the dif-
ficulty in educating mankind. There are
plenty of books; there is an abundance of
preaching; there is much good counsel, but
there are few willing learners. Teachers are
puzzled for methods to attract the attention of

[Column 2]

the young. The speaker who can magnetize
his audience so that they will listen to his pre.
cepts, although his knowledge may not be so
profound, will accomplish more universal good
to-day than the deepest thinker, or the wisest
philosopher who cannot infuse into his subject
the element of attraction.
	Thus, the recitation of a poem, the quotation
of a proverb, or the relation of an anecdote,
may convey a more useful lesson than a well
studied discourse, and the points and morals
will be much longer remembered. Who will
deny that the fables of Esop are deeper in the
universal mind than the sermons of Wesley or
the logic of Webster? And the quaint sayings
of the American humorist are household words;
while the philosophies of Socrates and Bacon
are dusty upon the shelves. The reason for
this is apparent. People would rather be a-
mused than instructed, and if we desire to
teach to-day we must first attract attention,
and then interest the listener. So wide spread
is the feeling of apathy on the subject of use-
ful information that the great principles of
science have to be woven into a romantic nar-
rative. Astronomy and atmospheric influences
must be conveyed to the mind through a jour-
ney to the moon, illustrated with gorgeous
wood-cuts, and mingled with the grossest im-
possibilities; and it is by this means that some
of the most renowned authors have found ready
sale for their researchers in science. Even the
Bible must be rewritten by a modern hand,
and the beautiful incidents of Scripture re-
lated in sensational paragraphs. History must
be condensed, and many of the important de-
tails omitted before our youth will undertake
its perusal. Thus the tendency of the age is
to be satisfied with a smattering of knowledge,
a few stray leaves from the tree of learning,
while they chase with eagerness the butterfuly
of pleasure. People must be caught with the
gilded hook of attractive romance before they
will partake of any substantial truth, or yield
to any solid reasoning.
	The love of learning is something which each 
must cultivate for him or herself, before they
can ever become versed in things that are. It
is true we learn much by experience and obser-
vation, but persons who have not a desire to
become instructed frequently allow the most
valuable lessons to pass unheeded. The suffer-
ings of others are not lessons to them, and even
their own sorrows frequently pass away and
are forgotten, without leaving the beneficial in-
fluence designed by the providence of God.
	With this condition of things in the world
around us how easy it would be for the child-
ren of Zion, who should have more foresight
and greater self control, to become the most
learned, and through the blessings of God, the
most wise and powerful of all people. Let us
heed the inspired counsels of God's servants,
let us walk in the ways of heavenly wisdom,
and be ever willing to receive instruction
through even the humblest instrument chosen
to convey it, and like the bee, that gathers hon-
ey from every flower, and stores it in the hive
for future use, so let us accumulate knowledge
from every appropriate source of information,
that our minds may be supplied in the hour of
need, that by a touch of inspiration the intel-
ligence of Zion may shine forth in a day to
come as a light to brighten the Gentiles, and
to be the glory of God's people—Israel.
	E. M. S.


[Column 1]
