SMITH'S BIRTHDAY.

	Monday, January 21st, 1884, was the 80th an-
niversary of the birthday of Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith, and a number of her lady friends
arranged for a birthday party to be held in the
Social Hall. There were upwards of 200 persons
present on the occasion, all prompted to be pres-
ent by a desire to do honor to the vanerable la-
dy. The occasion was most interesting, and
the time was spent in making brief addresses,
giving recitations, songs, etc., supper was also
served to the guest.
	Old age is beautiful when combined with
physical and mental preservation. This is the
case with this venerable lady. She is capable
of undergoing an amount of fatigue that would
tire many woman half her age, and her mental
faculties seem to be in full vigor. Under such
circumstances life is a pleasure.
	Her life has exhibited, as fully as any wom-
an's in the Church, what can be done by deter-
mined purpose, guided by wisdom. Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith has made her mark in her gen-
eration. Always a busy woman, her late years
have been crowded with labor, the fruits of
which, I believe, will be felt for generations to
come. It has been a time of organization, and
she and her co-workers have had a splendid
field in which to labor. The Relief Societies,
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, and the Primary schools have all been
benefitted by her counsels.
	The meeting on Monday evening was a most
suggestive one in many respects. It is not too
much to say that we are engaged in laying the
foundation of a new civilization, and the ladies
of our people, of whom Sister Snow Smith is
the leader, are performing a noble and wonder-
fully influential part of the work. The impres-
sion throughout Christendom is that woman's
education and elevation are incompatible with
the system of plural marriage; that where that
system prevails woman's degradation is sure to
follow; that she must of necessity occupy an in-
ferior place to that which her sex fills under the
system of monogamy. These ideas are derived
from the position occupied by women of Orient-
al lands, and one of ihe chief arguments used
with women to excite their prejudices against
the system of plural marriage has been of this
character. Reflecting men and women have
denied that such results were the inevitable ac-
companiment of plural marriage. It has been
repeatedly asserted that there was no good rea-
son why woman should not progress and main-
tain her position side by side with man under
the system of plural marriage, and be developed
to fully as great an extent as under the mono-
gamic system. In fact philosophic thinkers a-
mong us have perceived that under the system
of plural marriage it was possible for woman to
achieve a higher position intellectually and as
the help-meet of man and the mother of his
children than she possibly could in monogamy.
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith and her co-workers
are proving the truth of this. Already the pro-
gress of the sex in every proper direction in this
Territory is a cause of happiness and congratu-
lation to all who witness it. Plural marriage
has not degraded women in this Territory. It
is true that a dissatisfied, discontented, unhappy
women, whether in plural marriage or in mon-


[Column 1]

ogamy, makes no progress. She droops and
sinks under imaginary, but what to her are real
tonbles, and she ceases to be a factor of any im-
portance in the body politic. A woman so con-
stituted, whether the only wife of one man, or
the plural wife of a man, is alike unhappy. But
where women exercise their powers and culti-
vate self-reliance, leaning upon God for the
strength which He is ready to give, the oppor-
tunities for development under plural marriage
are greater than usually afforded under the sys-
tem of monogamy. She becomes, in some res-
pects, the head of her family, and from the na-
ture of the case is compelled to assume responsi-
bilities that under other circumstances she
would not feel. With a properly constituted
woman this calls forth her full powers. There
is a necessity for their exercise, and she rises to
the exigency of the position and exhibits a
strength and power which surprises herself as
well as those who are around her. She ceases
to lean upon man to the extent that she would
do were she not compelled to assume the duties
and responsibilities connected with the charge
of her children and her household. Experience
is gained; strength is developed; the power of
governing is called into exercise; selfishness and
self-ease are sacrificed, and the perfect type of
womanhood is brought forth.
	I believe that to-day there are to be found in
this Territory more of these perfect women for
the number of our population than can be found
anywhere else in the world. Grand, noble, un-
selfish women have brought their weaknesses
and their inclinations into subjection to the
higher law of God and have obtained a strength,
dignity of character, and superiority of manner,
that lifts them up above the ordinary level of
her sex. They stand on a higher plane, and
are fitted, by the conflicts which they have en-
dured and in which they have triumphed, to
become the fitting partners of intelligent, intel-
lectual and pure men.
	These are the results which are being wrought
out in this Territory; not so rapidly as to call
forth surprise, but still to the observant so rap-
idly as to give promise of a glorious future.
Women in this Territory have a grand sphere of
usefulness opened for them. They labor in a
field to which there is no bound. Their oppor-
tunities for usefulness are unequalled, and in
every legitimate labor which they undertake
they have the aid and the encouragment of the
other sex. The incentive to become intelligent,
to comprehend principle, to be strong, is great-
er here than in any other community that we
know anythiug o[-], and 1 am gratified to see that
our sisters are availing themselves of the grand
opportunities which are furnished them for use-
fulness and progress. The effect of their exam-
ples upon the rising generation will ba of im-
mense value, and as the generations roll by no-
bler types of womanhood will be developed, un-
til the penalty laid upon woman in the begin-
ning, that "thy desire shall be to thy husband
and he shall rule over thee," will be repealed,
and she will stand side by side with man, full of
that queenly dignity and self-control which will
make her his suitable companion rather than
his inferior.
	Much of the intellectual movement among our
sisters is due to the example and influence of
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. She and her co-
workers have labored diligently to elevate their
sex and inspire them with an ennobling aud ho-
ly ambition. That which they are doing to-day
is not valued as it will be in days to come. It
will require the historian of another generation
to award them the credit that is due to their
self-sacrificing and loving labors. But the cred-
it due to them, however long it may be post-
poned, will yet be given them, and their names

[Column 2]

will stand out bright in the annals of this peo-
ple in the day of power yet to come.


