N W. S. A.

	The National Republican of Washington City
has published full particulars of the Woman's
Convention held in Lincoln Hall, March 4, 5
and 6 Miss Susan B. Anthony presided in the
absence of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Speeches were made and papers read by the
most noted and active suffragists from the differ-
ent states. Letters were also read from various
parts of this country and Europe, and a general
discussion of the question of political equality
was the sentiment of the entire convention.
	A grand reception was given to Miss Anthony
and her co-laborers at the Riggs House, Mrs.
Spofford, the popular and genial hostess, having
charge of the affair, which was a realovation to
the suffrage ladies, judging from the papers.
Several hundred people paid their respects to
these earnest, indefatigable workers for woman's
enfranchisement, among whom were Senators,
Representatives, litteratuers and those noted
in Washington society. An elegant lunch was
spread in an adjoining apartment, and the
whole affair was arranged to admirably as to
make all feel at their ease, and indeed was a
complete social success. Mrs. Spofford has the
quiet dignity and marvelous tact to carry out a
programme of this kind in the most approved
manner to please all and offend none.
	A large delegation of ladies from the conven-
tion called on Prest. Arthur, and paid their res-
pects to the Chief Executive of the Republic.
Judging from the telegrams, he treated them
with the greatest deference and courtesy, but
was severely non-committal in reply to their
suggestions about the question of woman suf-
frage.
	We are very sorry we have not space to pub-
lish more concerning this interesting conven-
tion, but will possibly give in our next issue the
preamble and declaration of principles. As Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood seems to be the only one
who touched upon the subject of suffrage in
Utah, we will give an extract from her speech:
	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, whose appearance
and manner need no description in this city,
next spoke upon "The Proposed Disfranchise-
ment of Utah Women." The speech was large
ly a legal argument to show that the Edmunds
bill and the proposed bill to disfranchise women
were not only unjust and unfair, but in direct
violation of the Constitution of the United
States. The bills, she said, were all the result
of a morbid public sentiment intended to op-
press a gentle, harmless people, and furthered
by public men for purposes of their own. The
danger which threatened the women in Utah,
she said, also threatened the women of Wyo-
ming. The law proposed to punish the innocent

[Column 2]
with the guilty, the women for the crimes of the
men. The government of the United States,
she charged, had no more right to attack the
Mormon religion than it had to attack the Meth
odist or Catholic religions. The Mormons were
a law-abiding people until laws became so op-
pressive that they could not be borne. Running
along with Mrs. Lockwood's argument was a
sketch of the Mormon Church and a defense of
it. When Mrs. Lockwood declared that the
New York society, which believed in charging
husbands and wives at pleasure, had never been
disturbed or molested, Miss Anthony interrupt-
ed her and assured her that the Oneida commu-
nity had been broken up and Noyes had gone
away. Mrs. Lockwood then proceeded to show
how in many cases religious persecutions had re-
sulted in the glory of the persecuted, and she
likened the persecution of the Mormons by the
United States to the tyranny which Great Brit-
ian exercised over the American colonies before
the revolution. "It is profoundly to be hoped,"
she said, "that Congress will attend to its proper
business, and let Utah alone."
	Before introducing the next speaker Miss An-
thony said that the association had nothing to
do with the action of Congress in respect to
Utah, except where it was invidious to women.
Only when it is proposed to disfranchise women,
without touching the men, did the association
enter its protest. The general laws which Con-
gress proposes for Utah and the Mormons "is
none of our business," said Miss Anthony, and
the statement was received with loud applause.
Miss Anthony said she thought that Mrs. Lock-
wood had gone into a religious and industrial
subject which the association had nothing to do
with.
	Mrs. Lockwood replied, with some irony in
her tones, that she was sorry not to have suffic-
ient discrimination to see the difference between
injustice to men and injustice to women.


