EDITORIAL Entered at second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto  Charity Never Faileth.  Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. IV. JANUARY, 1917. No. 1. A CALL TO THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH We call upon our officers and members throughout the Church to give serious consideration to the following letter, recently addressed by the Presidency of the Church to the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' _ Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association. Dear Sisters: We feel that there exists a pressing need of improvement and reform among our young people, specifically in the matter of dress and in their social customs and practices. Our women are prone to follow the demoralizing fashions of the world; and some of the daughters of Zion appear to vie with one another in exhibitions of immodesty and of actual indecency in their attire, wholly forgetful of the precepts of the Lord and the counsels of his servants, and seemingly oblivious in this respect to the promptings and duties of true womanhood. Many of our youth of both sexes are fast approaching a state of depravity in dancing, and in their feverish pursuit of frivolous and dissipating pleasures. We are grateful in knowing that only a fraction of our people are seriously affected by the deadly contagion of Babylon; but those already iofected among the Latter-day Saints are all too many. The conditions call for prompt, determined, and persistent EDITORIAL. 37 action, lest the standard of morality and spiritual health in our community be further impaired. We call upon you. as the chief officers of a great and influential auxiliary within the Church, to give this matter immediate consideration, and to make it the subject of specific effort and systematic missionary labor among the members of your organization and with the people generally throughout the Church. See that your own officers first, and then that your members show by their own example the sincerity of their efforts toward the accomplishment of the purposes of this special mission to which we call you. We advise that you work in harmony with the officers of our other auxiliary organizations; and with this co-operative course in mind, we are sending this appointment concurrently to the General Boards of the Relief Society, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association. For the information  of the General Boards of the Sunday School, the Y. M. M. I. A., and the Religion Class, a copy of this letter will be sent to each of those Boards with the request that they do all within their power to assist in the correction of the evils herein referred to. Inasmuch as one of the most important phases of this reformatory labor has to do with our girls and women, we advise that for the present the General Boards that are composed of women work together as a co-operative unit. You are requested therefore to appoint three of your number as members of a committee; and this committee, consisting of nine members. should straightway set about preparing a plan for effective operation. Let the General Board of the Relief Society determine upon and notify the other organizations of the time and place of the first meeting of the committee, at which first meeting the committee may organize itself by electing a chairman and other necessary officers. We desire to be kept ioformed of your progress in operating under this appointment. With prayerful wishes that the Lord will give you in full measure the spirit of this ministry, and that joy through success will attend your efforts, we are, Your Brethren, Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose. In accordance with the instructions given in this letter, a committee was at once appointed, three members from each Board, who should, under the direction of the Boards, put into operation measures leading to improvement along the lines mentioned.  
 An organization was effected, a Chairman, Vice-chairman, Secretary, and Assistant Secretary appointed, and a name selected  that of "Social Advisory Committee." These sisters first gave their attention to the subject of dress, as one in which the women and girls of our organizations are vitally concerned. Acting upon the suggestion that our "own officers first, and then that our members show by their example the sincerity of their efforts," a resolution was prepared and unanimously adopted by the three Women's Boards. This resolution was to the effect that each member should be willing to live in harmony with the teachings of the Church in the matter of properly clothing the body. We now earnestly solicit the co-operation of all our women officers and members in this important movement. The responsibility for conditions in our midst which make necessary these instructions from the First Presidency rests upon every women in the Church. No one can evade it. Officers first, and then members should show by example and precept that they gladly join hands with the Authorities of the Church in the endeavor to overcome the evils which exist. The gospel of Jesus Christ offers so much to its recipients that all Latter-day Saints should delight to cooform their lives to its teachings. Its requirements are not harsh and should not be irksome. Our women who have been privileged to enter the House of the Lord have received incomparable blessings  blessings which are a source of joy and comfort here on the earth, and which shall endure throughout eternity. Does any woman in Zion undervalue these rich privileges? Will she not gladly make any sacrifice to be worthy of them? Our young women and girls should strive to understand the teachings of the gospel with regard to dress and conduct, and to live in accordance therewith. In the guise of fashion, many false ideas of beauty have come among us, and the habit of "being in the style" has caught and carried many of us much farther than we realized. Let us remember that the body is a gift from God and that it should be kept sacred. Our girls should be instructed and helped to recognize the value of, and the protection that comes with modesty in dress and conduct. Not one of them can afford to sacrifice such protection for the sake of fashion. We recommend to stake and local officers that this editorial be read in the meetings of our organizations throughout the Church. Social Advisory Committee of Relief Society, Young Primary Ladies' Mutual Association. Improvement Association, EDITORIAL. 
 This high-cost-of-living talk has its limits. Hew Prices When you see women's clubs and men's Are Boosted. civic bodies, and even Congress making a tremendous fuss about the price of eggs and flour, while they say nothing whatever about the shoes and gloves, you get a bit angry  if your sympathies run with the farmers, and that is where Utah's sympathies should be. Here starts a man or a firm to raise prices-  on paper say; for that was one of the first big interests to deliberately take advantage of the war to raise prices and thus rake in a few millions of money  and that raise made printer's ink get a rise  then oil, gasoline, lumber, leather, rubber, tin, coal, iron, copper, and, in fact, every conceivable commodity was hoisted up in price to meet the original speculation. The Farmer Trails Behind Miles behind the other speculators come the food stuff's, meat and farmers' products, and Trails Behind, they accommodated themselves to the general rise in prices and lo, everybody gets mad at once. To think that milk and eggs and butter can dare to advance in price  O it's awful. There's a cry about high prices that shakes the foundations of the earth. Of course, we all know that the middlemen The get the big benefits out of this rise in eggs Middleman. and food stuffs  well so they do from coal and leather. The way society is now organized, the middleman is a necessity, and he has to live and get rich if he can. But the farmer gets better and steadier prices because of the middleman, and the farmer knows it. Of course, the farmer can cut out the middleman, and live on his own produce. But he won't, the modern farmer is too shrewd for that. I don't notice the club women crying out What Do about the rise in feathers and hats. Nor do Women Do I see them wearing any cheaper hats because About High of the unprecedented rise in all fancy goods. Priced No, no! My lady goes more richly clad, and Millinery? gives more luxurious entertainments than ever before. Then she gets together with her kind and shouts and resolutes and gets raving mad in the papers  getting publicity at the same time  and calls the egg man names and raises her hands in horror over the price of flour and sugar. O woman  and O man! 
 Don't we all know enough of the primary The Sensible principles of political economy to know that View of The when prices are high, wages are correspond Presenting high and money is easy while prosperity reigns everywhere. That's the law of supply and demand. It's only silly folks who expect wages to rise and prices to fall at one and the same time. The sensible thing for you and me, my dear, is just to institute the severest economy we are capable of, refuse to go in debt, save all we can, wear last year's dresses and hats, use as few eggs as may be. and let the pseudo-reformers go their gait. This talk will all die. down, you know. Congress and clubs will spend uselessly a few dollars of money in investigating, and things will end up just where they began. It is. after all, purely a personal matter. If we will each economize and be ready for the crash that is sure to follow, at the close of the war, we can afford to forget all the talk and resolutions while we wait quietly upon the god of war and consequent high prices. CALL FOR HISTORY ITEMS. Our General Historian desires to secure the names, sketches and pictures of all women who were milliners, dressmakers, school teachers, music teachers or midwives in Kirtland, Missouri or Nauvoo. Decsendants who write such sketches will please include the genealogy and pedigrees of the persons described. These sketches will be published in the Deseret News Genealogical Department, while the names will appear in the list of historic women living in the early days of Church history. Kindly address: General Historian, Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29 Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City, Utah. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in February. THE ABRAHAMIC AGE. According to Taine, a noted French critic, there are three different things which produce the "elementary moral state" of a people: race, surroundings, and epoch. By race he means the "internal structure" of a people, that inherent nature and disposition "which man brings with him into the world," and which makes the different kinds of men we see all around us. "There is a natural variety of men, as of oxen and horses, some brave and intelligent, some timid and dependent, some capable of superior conceptions and creations, some reduced to rudimentary ideas and inventions." By surroundings Taine means whatever goes to influence a people from without. "The profound differences which are manifest between the German races, on the one side, and the Latin and the Greek, on the other side, arise for the most part from the differences between the countries in which they are settled: some in cold, moist lands, deep in rugged, marshy forests or on the shores of a wild ocean, beset by melancholy or violent sensations, prone to drunkenness and gluttony, bent on a fighting, blood-spilling life; others, again, within the loveliest landscapes, on a bright and pleasant sea-coast, enticed to navigation and commerce, exempt from gross cravings of the stomach, inclined from the beginning to social ways, to a settled organization of the state, to feelings and dispositions such as develop the art of oratory, the talent for enjoyment, the inventions, letters, arts." By epochs he means whatever happens to a race in its environment. Now, in Abraham and Sarah the Lord chose a man and a woman through whom to begin a new people or nation. Abraham, we are told, was one of "the noble and great ones," among the pre-existent intelligences; and, no doubt. Sarah was a fit helpmate for such a man. The Hebrew race had therefore the "inherent' structure" necessary for a great people. But the Lord did more than choose a worthy foundation for a great people. He took Abraham and Sarah out of their native 
 home and established them in a new land, a land favorable to the development of their descendants along the lines marked out for them by Jehovah. Palestine is a tract of extremely fertile land, about four hundred miles long, and from seventy to one hundred miles wide, lying between the Arabian Desert and the eastern coast of the Lavant. "Syria," says Professor George Adam Smith, (in which is Palestine), "lies between two continents  Asia and Africa: between two primeval homes of men  the valley of the Euphrates and the Nile; between two great centers of empire  Western Asia and Egypt; between all these, representing the Eastern and ancient world, and the Mediterranean, which is the gateway to the Western and modern world." In this central location Palestine became not only the "battle ground of empires," but also and particularly the "highway of nations." In the former respect it resembled the Belgium of modern history, and in the latter respect it was much like our own Salt Lake City, through which people pass from the East to the Pacific coast. By reason of its peculiar position, therefore, the Holy Land was isolated from the other nations, enjoying the consequent opportunity for development along the lines of its own racial possibilities. At the same time there was deposited on its national soil the sediment of civilization of the upper and lower peoples of the ancient world. Besides all this, Palestine is one of the richest countries of the world in its natural resources. Palestine "reproduces climates and zones which, in other countries, are separated by many hundred miles." "Within the extent of a single landscape, there is every climate, from the cold of northern Europe to the heat of India. The oak, the pine, the walnut, the maple, the juniper, the alder, the poplar, the willow, the ash, the ivy, and the hawthorn, grow luxuriously on the heights of Hermon, Basham, and Galilee. Hence the traveler from the more northerly temperate lands finds himself in some parts, surrounded by the trees and vegetation of his own country. ***** The traveler from the more southern countries is no less at home; for from whatever part he come, be it sunny Spain or Western India, he will recognize well known forms in one or the other of such a list as the carob, the oleander and willow, skirting the streams and water-courses; the sycamore, the fig, the olive, the date-palm, the pride of India, the pistachio, the tamerick, the acacia, and the tall tropical grasses and reeds, or in such fruits as the date, the pomegranate, the vine, the orange, the shaddock, the lime, the banana, the almond, and the prickly pear." Palestine, at the time of Abraham, was occupied by Caananitish tribes, barbaric peoples. Abraham and Sarah had come GUIDE LESSONS. 43 thither, obeying a command of God, from Chaldea. The people in their old home were idolators and offered up human beings as sacrifices, men, women, and children. In the Book of Abraham v/e are told that the priest was about to offer up the young man Abraham on the altar. In their new home the chosen pair dwelt from the call to the end of their lives, with the exception of short residences in Egypt. Whenever we think of Abraham and Sarah in Palestine we must not think of them as we sometimes do, in the midst of modern conditions. They did not live in a vast and wealthy kingdom. The "kings" mentioned in Genesis were but chiefs of tribes. Abraham with his "trained men born in his house, three hundred and eighteen," is represented as pursuing a number of these rebellious kings "as far as Dan," smiting them and their followers right and left. "And he brought back all the goods (which they had stolen from Lot, his brother's son), and also brought again his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people." In those days a man's wealth was measured by the things which he possessed. Pharaoh "had sheep, and oxen, and he-asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she-asses, and camels." Abraham too "was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold." Lot "had flocks, and herds, and tents." Sarah's household duties, if we may use the term "house" at Vil, were confine d to the tent. For when the angel appeared to Abraham just before the destruction of the wicked cities, the patriarch was sitting "in his tent door in the heat of the day," under "the oaks of Mamre." Moreover, they did more or less wandering from place to place, after the manner of herdsmen in those remote days. Abraham and Sarah lived a more or less nomadic life. In this wonderful land, under these conditions, the Hebrew race began its long and splendid career. We shall see in later articles how it was that this environment was used and modified to suit their growing needs. QUESTIONS. What has environment to do with the development of a race? Of an individual? Show that Palestine is so situated and is of such a character as to contribute to the isolation and development of the Jews. What may have been the Lord's purposes in establishing Israelites in the Palestine? Describe Palestine. Describe customs in the days of Abraham. What differences do you find in religion, in occupations, and in general manners then and now? Prove your statements. 
 Either before or after reading this lesson, study carefully the account of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah in Genesis, chapters 18 and 19. HOME BIBLE READING FOR FEBRUARY. "They received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the Scriptures daily." 1. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 1. 2. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 2. 3. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 3. 4. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 4. 5. Pearl of Great Price, Abraham, Chapter 5. 6. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 11. 7. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 12. 8. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 13. 9. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 14. 10. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 15. 11. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 16. 12. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 17. 13. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 18. 14. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 19. 15. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 20. 16. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 21. 17. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 22. 18. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 23. 19. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 24. 20. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 25. 21. Bible, Hebrews, Chapter 11. 22. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 1. 23. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 2. 24. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 3. 25. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 4. 26. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 5. 27. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 6. 28. Doc. & Cov., Lecture on Faith, Chapter 7. BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS. Suggestive list to guide parents in their buying of books BOOKS FOR CHILDREN UNDER SIX. "Baby Days," CenUiry; "Peter Rabbit," Potter; "Merry Animal Tales," Bingham; "New Baby World," Dodge; "Nursery Rhyme Rook," Lang. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 "That's Why Stories," Bryce; "Rhymes and Stories," Lansing; "Classic Fables" (Selected), Chas. E. Merrill; "Each and All," Andrews; "Half a Hundred Stories for Little Folks." BOOKS FOR CHILDREN EIGHT TO TEN. "Fifty Famous Stories," Baldwin; "Fifty Famous Peoph," Baldwin; "Story of Roland," Baldwin; "Story of Siegfried," Baldwin; "Stories of Brave Dogs," St. Nicholas; "Stories of Cats," St. Nicholas; "A Child's Garden of Verses," Stevenson. BOOKS FOR CHILDREN TEN TO TWELVE. "Some Merry Adventures of Robin Hood," Pyle; "Lu:le Men," Alcott; "Little Women," Alcott; "Under the Lilacs," Alcott; "Wonderful Adventures 'of Nils," Lagerloef; "King Arthur and His Knights," Radford; "Arabian Nights;" "Tom Sawyer," Mark Twain; "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland," Carroll. BOOKS FOR CHILDREN FROM TWELVE TO FIFTEEN. "Robinson Crusoe," De Foe; "Swiss Family Robinson," Wyss;"Anne of Green Gagles,"M^ontgomery; "Reecbca of Sunnybrook Farm," Wiggin; "Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come," Fox; "Last of the Mohicans," Cooper; "Boy's Life of Lincoln," Nicolay; "Story of My Life," Keller; "Ivanhoe," Scott; "David Copperfield," Dickens; "John Halifax, Gentleman," Craik; "Scottish Chiefs," Porter; "Life of Kit Carson," Abbott; "Book of Golden Deeds," Yonge; "Old Fashioned Girl," Alcott; "Man Without a Country," Hale; "Plutarch's Lives." We suggest the following books from our own writers as Christmas gifts: Book of Mormon; "Musings and Memories," Emmeline B. Wells; "Mr. Durant of Salt Lake City, 'That Mormon'," Ben E. Rich; "Added Upon," Nephi Anderson; "Women of the Bible," Willard Done; "History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," revised by Geo. A. Smith and Elias Smith; "Joseph Smith as Scientist," Dr. John A. Widtsoe; "Mother Stories of the Book of Mormon," Wm. A. Morton; "John Stevens' Courtship;" "Sketches of Missionary Life." E. F. Parry; "From Kirtland to Salt Lake," Jas. A. Little; "Forty Years Among the Indians," Daniel W. Jones; "Leaves from My Journal," President Wilford Woodruff; "Jacob Hamblin;" "Fragments of Experience;" 4n RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "President Heber C. Kimball's Journal;" "The Life of Nephi," Geo. Q. Cannon; "The Myth of the Manuscript Found, or The Absurdities of the Spaulding Story," Geo. Reynolds; "Helpful Visions." Thos. A. Shreeve; "Lydia Knight's History," Susa Young Gates; "Heroines of Mormondom," Susa Young Gates; "Works of Josephus;" "Devotees and their Shrines," Alice Merrill Home; "Book of Mormon Stories" (illustrated), As a choice reminder of family records: "L. D. S. Family and Individual Record," prepared by D. M. McAllister; "Gene Allister. alogical Family and Individual Record," prepared by D. M. McLESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in February. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in February. SURNAMES FROM THE VILLAGE When the English people, as they had begun to call themselves, after William the Conqueror's day, really decided to adopt surnames, some of them fell naturally into the habit of calling themselves by their trades, or professions, or offices. This would come natural, as: William the tailor would soon be William Taylor; John the clerk would soon become John Clerk or Clark; and Richard the gardener would soon become Richard Gardner. It may clarify this lesson if we say a little more about the Domesday Book and the census made by William the Conqueror, in 1086. William found it impossible to decide just who held deeds to certain properties, nor did he know how many men he had under him, nor how much property was in the kingdom. Partly to take a census, and partly to find out how much taxable property there was, and partly to fasten his yoke more securely upon the necks of the conquered Angles, Saxons and Danes, he sent heralds all through the kingdom, and these heralds wrote the results of their census, taken in a very fine hand and, in a very crowded manner, upon a medium-sized manuscript book, which was called The Domesday Book, and which is now in the f fall of Records, under a glass case in London. GUIDE LESSONS. 47 Baring-Gould says: "Commissioners were sent into the shires, who took evidence on oath from the sheriffs, the parish priests, the reeves, and the men generally, French and English alike, in every lordship. They were to report who had held the land in the time of Edward the Coofessor, and who held it then; also as to how many lived on it, what was their quality and what was the value of the soil, and whether there was any prospect of the value being raised. "The Chronicle says: 'He sent over all England, into every shire, his men to find out how many hundred hides were in the shire, and what the King himself had of land and cattle in the land. Also what rights he ought to have in the twelve months in the shire. Also he let enquire how much land his Archbishops had, and his Bishops, and his Abbots, and his Earls, and though tell it at more length, what and how much every man had that was a land-holder in England, in land or in cattle, and how much fee it was worth. So very narrowly did he let the investigation be carried out, that there was not a single hide, nor a yard of land, not so much as  it is a shame to tell it, and he thought it no shame to do it not an ox nor a cow, nor a swine, was left that was not set in his writ. And all the writs were brought to him.' that "The broke taking out in of this inquisition tumults, and some roused great blood shed was dissatisfaction Hitherto the landholders, with a little shuffling and some bribing, had been able to assess their lands lower than their actual value. This would now be impossible, and they looked to the hard hand of the tax-gatherer coming down on them and remorselessly squeezing out the due for every acre, whether in cultivation or fallow. From Domesday we learn what were the several classes among the English who were now under the heel of the Norman. "The old Thegns, or land-holders, were no longer great men; they had to bow their necks under the yoke, and see their land taken from them and their influence and authority gone. Some, luckily, remained on as tenants on the land where they had been freeholders, and in remembrance of the past still called themselves Thegns, or Theins, and continued to be so called. Hence it comes that we have the surname of Thynne. "The Freemen, freeholders, held their land after the Conquest no longer as freemen, but subject to military service, and were taxable. Their representatives later were the yeomen. They have contributed to our nomenclature the names Freeman and Free. Freebody signified a freeholder of a little wooden cot. Fry as a surname comes thence as well. "Radmen were socmen, possessed of a greater amount of freedom than others. Hence the surname Redman. "Socmen, inferior landowners who held their lands in the 
 soc, or franchise, of a great lord. Hence Suckerman, Suckman. "Franklyn was much the same as the Freeman." The surnames which grew out of the offices held by the village proprietors were: Bonder. The old Norse bonde was the man in highest position under the Earl. He was the freeholder, responsible to none save the Earl. Burs or Geburs were workmen giving a certain number of days' of the work in the field's, and a small money payment to the Lord of the Manor. Bordars, a poor but numerous class, tenants of land which, their lord kept expressly for the maintenance of his table, the rental being paid in kind. Cottars and Cottrels, also Cotmens, Coscets. The cottar could hold nothing of his own, nor acquire anything without the consent of his lord. The Cottrell was in no better position. Villeins were men in the servitude of the Lord of the Manor, who held the folkland, by which they supported themselves and their families. They stood somewhat higher than the serfs. They were also designated as knaves. The odium attaching to a class so low has stood in the way of the name passing into our family nomenclature, at all events in its Norman-French form. But it remains as Churl for Ceorl. * * * * * Carl signifies a man generally. Charles is rarely found as a Christian name in England before the time of Charles I. The surnames Charles, Charly and Caroll, from the Latin form Carolus, remain with us  the last in the United States. Serf, the poor wretch who owned nothing of his own but his wife and his children, is only recognizable in family names as Server, Sewer. Servant became Sergeant, and rose to be an official. Thrall was given the surname Thrale. Akerman occurs repeatedly in the Hundred Rolls, and seems to mean a plowman. (Aker-field, hence man of the field.) Man, in Latin, homo, occurs in almost every page of the Domesday Survey, and included every kind of deutero tenant. Badger, properly a Bagger. "Up to the seventeenth century an ordinary term for one who had a special license to purchase com from farmers at the provincial markets and fairs, and then dispose of it again elsewhere, without the penalties of engrossing."(Bardsley.) Barker, the man who barks for the tanner; Barkis is "at the Bark-house." Bercher or Berger, a shepherd. A Norman-French name is little used, yet surviving as a surname. Beemaster. Occurs in Domesday as Apium Custos. An GUIDE LESSONS. 49 important man before the introduction of sugar, as honey was employed not only for the making of honey-cakes, but also in the brewing of matheglin or hydromel, and the wax was needed for candles. We have the Beemaster contributing to nomenclature in Beemaster and Honeyman, or simply as Honey. Beecher, a spademan; from the Norman-French beche. Bolter, the bolter of flour, a servant of the miller. Surname Boult. Bullman, the bull-herdsman. Hence Pullman; also in some cases Buller. Carpenter, in country and town alike. In Domesday Carpentarius. Carter comes to us in many forms as a surname  e. g., Carter, Cartman. Cartwright, the maker of carts. Cramer or Creamer, a huckster; hence Crammer. Driver, the driftman; on moors the man employed to sweep together colts and horses and cattle and sheep sent out on the commons, to a centre where the owners may claim them, and such as have no rights to send their beasts on the commons are fined. Farmer remains on the land, and has contributed to our nomenclature. Also Fermor. Farrer and Farrier, the man who shoes horses. Fearon is a smith; also Ferrier. Fowler is a common surname, and explains its origin. This is sometimes contracted to Fowles and Fowle; also Vowler. Hayman or Hayward was the village official whose duty it was to guard the cattle that grazed on the village common, that they did not trespass on the ground where was the grass grown for hay during the winter. Until hedges became common, the hayward had to keep a sharp lookout on the cattle committed to his charge. Husband, the man who cultivated the portion of soil which derived from him the name of husband-land, a measure known in the Merse and Lothian. Hence the surname Younghusband  i. e., (John) Young the Husband (land-holder). Sawyer, also Sagar and Sayer. Shepherd, spelled as a surname also Shepherd and Sheppard. Woodman, Woodreve, as a surname Woodrow, Woodward, Woodyer. Wright, either a wainwright or a wheelwright  the former synonymous with a Cartwright. In the castle there were many officials and after the Conqueror's time they were all of foreign blood. Below the upper line of Retainers there were villeins, boors, cotters, and churles. line 
 official class was very large, and many surnames have come down to us from the titles of these foreign Norman office holders. These were: Assayer, a taster, to assure the lord at table that the food and drink had not been poisoned. The names Saver, Savers, Saer. come hence. Bailiff, the same as reeve or steward. Bower and Bawers, an indoor servant, attendant on the ladies. Also Bowerman and Burman. Chamberlain, one of the most intimate servants in a seigneurial house. The surname from the office is sometimes shortened to Chambers. Cook or Le Coq, a very important functionary. His name enters into numerous combinations, as Babcock (Bartholomew le coq), Wilcox (Will le coq), Hancock (John le coq). The entry "Robert, fil, Coci" in the Hungred Rolls shows them some Cooks' sons were so designated whose fathers had no recognized surnames. Also Kitchen and Kitchener. Esquire. The place of shield-bearer and attendant on a noble or knight was much sought after by the sons of men in good position as it was an admirable apprenticeship for war. Forester, a very important officer charged with the supervision of the royal forests. From these officers, when the offices became hereditary, came the surnames of Forester, Forster, Foster. Gardener. The name is French. The surname often spelled Gardiner and Gardner, also Jardine. Gaoler, a French name, showing that no Englishman could be trusted by a Norman with the keys of the prison. The surnames from the office are Gayler, Gale, and Jelly, perhaps. Granger, one who occupies the grange of the lord, secular or ecclesiastical, in which the corn "grain" was stored. Harper. Most large castles had in them a harper. Hartman, the officer who looked after the harts in the chase. The surname from it may be Hardman, and sometimes only Hart. Hind, the man who looked after his master's affairs in the home-farm. Hence the surnames Hynde and Hyne. Huntsman. As Hunter, the name of the office remains a surname. Shortened also to Hunt. Knight, by no means invariably, means one who has received knighthood. A knight is a knecht, a servant. The surname Midnight, perhaps, means the "mead-knight, the man who poured out the mead. Jackman, a man-at-arms in a coat of mail, or jacket, and wearing jack-boots. GUIDE LESSONS. 51 Marshall, originally the horse-groom. He 'rose into consideration and became a regulator of ceremonies. Miller. The Mill belonged to the lord of the manor, and the tenants were not allowed to grind their corn at any other Hence Milner and Milward (Anglo-Saxon for a miller), Millman. Page; of this Paget is the diminutive. Parker, the official in charge of the deerpark. Hence Parkman, Parkes. Porter, the gatekeeper. The family of Porter of Saltash is one of hereditary gatekeepers of Trematon Castle. The English of Porter is Durward. Ranger, a keeper. Reve, from Gerefa. Woodkeepers, whence the surnames Woodward, Woodrow, and Woodruff. Rider. The Barons maintained German mercenaries as horsemen. These were the Reiter, or, as the English called them. Reuters. They soon, however, changed Reuter into Rider and Ryder. Sewer is simply a server, a waiter. The "Boke of Servynge" says: "The server must serve, and from the bord convey all manner come of Sour pottages, and Shower. metes, and sauces." As a surname it has be QUESTIONS. Who were the Celts? (See history). Describe again the Domesday Book and its purpose. (See any encyclopedia). What value is this Book to genealogists? What surnames grew out of professions? How did officials in castles or manors get surnames? Give a list of official surnames. What surnames are there in your class that are of this character? LITERATURE. Third Meeting in February. THE AUTHOR AT WORK. Literature that lives is born alive. The writer must put his heart into his work, must feel what he says; otherwise, though he "speak with the tongue of men and of angels," his words will be but "sounding brass and tinkling cymbal." A little story told of Bret Harte, the California writer, illustrates beautifully this point. It is said that one of his poems once found its way into a San Francisco paper. A certain lady 
 was so charmed with it that she went to the writer and said enthusiastically, "Why, Mr.Harte, that is the best thing you ever wrote; I actually cried when I read it." "That is not at all strange," replied he,  "not at all strange. I cried when I wrote it." Sincerity is the soul of literature. The author, stirred by an emotion, or burning with some message, expresses himself to share with others, his thoughts and feelings, or to relieve his own soul. If his words ring true, they thrill the hearts that hear or read them. This message may be given in the form of a sermon, or a song, or a story. Most of our literature can.be grouped under these three general types. Different writers choose one or another of these ways of reaching their audiences. A striking illustration of this is found in the literary work of a certain American family. When the question of slavery was paramount in our nation, the people were naturally very much aroused. Among those who were ardent workers for the freedom of the slaves, were members of the Beecher family. From his famous pulpit in Brooklyn, Henry Ward Beecher was thundering his sermons against the evil; while Harriet Beecher Stowe, his sister, was writing her famous story, Uncle Tom's Cabin; and about the same time Julia Ward Howe, their cousin, created that greatest of civil war songs, "The reads as Battle follows Hymn: of the Republic," the last stanza of which "In the beauty of the lilies, Christ was born across the sea. With a glory in his bosom that transfigures you and me,  As he died to make men holy, let us die to make men free, While God is marching on." The same end was thus reached by three different literary paths: the sermon, the song, and the story. And these famous authors were splendidly successful because their words rang with sincerity. Indeed, some feel that in their earnestness, they were carried a little beyond the bounds of strict fairness, as is frequently the case when one grows over-zealous for any cause. But, ' nevertheless, literature, without fire, can hardly light the minds of men and stir them to action. The sermon and the story may both be written, either in form of verse or prose. The song, being more musical in effect, is written only in verse. This is not to say, however, that prose is necessarily unmusical. Prose has its rhythm as well as does verse. What then is the difference? Mainly this: The rythm. or musical movement, of verse is measured. It moves with