[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 358 | General Feature | Ways to Use Leftover Pie Dough | Dorothy Todd]
Ways to Use Leftover Pie Dough 4. Decoration for a One-crust Pie: Gaiety is added to a one-crust pie by using scrap dough for decorating it. Pumpkin pie looks charming with a jack-o-lantern face. Glazed cherry pie or other one-crust fruit pies can be decorated with a flower or a pinwheel. Little piecrust hatchets may decorate the top of cherry pie. Plan your decoration before cutting. Use cardboard patterns or miniature cookie cutters. A flower consists of a small round center surrounded by any desired number of daisy petals. Blades of a pinwheel are crescent shaped, -and about five in number, with a small round circle as a center. Gently press decorative cutouts onto the pie and bake. Uses for Larger Quantities of Dough When making a one or two-crust pie, make enough dough for an extra crust. Use it as suggested below. 1. An Extra Shell: Roll the left-over dough and fit it on the outside of a disposable aluminum pie tin or a regular pie plate. Flute edge. Prick sides and top with a fork. Bake 10 to 12 minutes at 425°, and fill within the next day or two, or cover with foil and keep in refrigerator for several days and then bake. 2. Individual Pies: Use small tins, made from aluminum foil, for individual pies. Make individual pies of one or two-crust variety. Any sort of filling appropiate for large pies is good, but they are especially tasty with lemon chiffon, glazed cherry, of applesauce fillings for desert. The only difference in preparing individual pies is that the baking time is less than for a large pie and must be adjusted accordingly. 3. Filled Tarts: Filled tarts are made by fitting tiny pie shells on the outside of muffin tins. Use cherry or berry pie filling, or any sort of cream or chiffon filling. To shape tart, cut a cardboard circle about 1-1/4-inches larger in diameter than the cup of your muffin tin. Ease and fold this circle onto the outside of the cup of your muffin tin. Prick sides and bottom with a fork and bake 8 to 10 minutes at 425°. Cool shells before filling. 4. Pigs-in-the-blanket: These little delicacies make an ideal main dish for a luncheon, or in a miniature form, a delicious snack. Either version of pigsin-a-blanket can be put to use in advance and stored on baking sheets in the refrigerator to be baked when needed. To make six "pigs," you will need six brown-and-serve sausages and about as much leftover pie dough as needed for a single 8-inch piecrust. ' Roll dough and cut into rectangles about 1-inch longer than the sausages and about 3-inches wide. Place sausage on each rectangle; moisten edges with cool water, wrap sausage and seal all edges. Bake on a cookie sheet or other shallow baking pan 10 to 12 minutes in a 425° oven. Serve with a creamy cheese sauce. For luncheon, two of these, plus a vegetable or salad, and dessert, make a good menu. For miniatures, cut sausages in thirds, and use enough dough for each roll as above.
