[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 366 | General Feature | The Magic of Forgetting | Sylvia Probst Young]
She was thoughtful for a moment, and then she said: "I believe one of the most important formulas for happiness in life is the magic of forgetting. It's the harboring of little hurts that cankers the heart, and so, through the years, I have tried to forget more than I have remembered." I have thought about her words many times since, and I have come to realize how profoundly wise is her philosophy. How easy it is to remember the angry words or the ingratitude and thoughtlessness of those we love. How easy to review a false accusation, an unkind remark, a seemingly obvious slight, until what might have been a little thing grows bigger and bigger. Cultivating a grievance, two women, who had once been good friends, went long years without speaking to each other. It was not until one of them was taken in death that the other came to realize, to her sorrow, how much that could have been good and beautiful had been ugly and sordid because neither one had learned to apply the art of forgetting in her life. I can forgive, but I can never forget, we often hear people say. 366 The Magic of Forgetting Unless one forgets the wrong he never truly forgives, for only in forgetting is forgiveness really given. How human to err. With this in mind, can we not be more tolerant of the faults of another, knowing that we are human, too? And no one who nurtures bitterness can expect to reap happiness, for the two do not grow together. Wise, indeed, is my venerable neighbor, turning from the ugly, she has found the beautiful. From her I can learn a great lesson, and try to apply it in my own life, and by so doing I shall be a more worthy handmaid of the Lord. MUSIC FOR SUMMER There is music in the golden summer days—. Drowsy song of honeybee in the copse, Happy note of robin in the treetops; Staccato music in hail against the pane, } When comes the sudden rush of boisterous rain,: Swish of breakers sweeping up the land, Tossing opalescent shells on drenched sand; Plaintive, distant call of mourning dove, Faint honk of wild geese from far above; Melody of west wind whispered to the pine, Fragrant with wild rose and pale columbine.