[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 376 | Special Feature |  | Marianne C. Sharp]

May 1968

[ILLUSTRATION]

Magazine
Honor Roll for 1967

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

Stakes and missions are to be congratulated on their success in
increasing Church an increase of 12,908 over 1966. The English Magazine sub-
subscriptions totaled 255,200—12,058 more than last year. Spanish
subscriptions were 6,400, an increase of 810 over last year's total.
The General Board is always enjoying to increase the value
and beauty of the Magazine and is heartwarming to have the
Magazine representatives, under the direction of the respective presi-
dents, working to further its use to contact a stake
in a year of such remarkable growth, perhaps we will continue
to speak with them. Only the knowledge of the great importance of
the calling of a Magazine representative would call forth such de-
voted Magazine representatives.
The relief Society Magazine extends its heartfelt thanks to everyone who has
contributed to placing The Relief Society Magazine in the homes and
lives of so many wonderful year after year and, who
subscribe so faithfully year after year and, who
write such appreciative letters to the General Board, many of which
appear on the front year and for page.

All stakes in Australia and Canada are on the Honor Roll.
Missions are to be congratulated on the significant increase in
staff receives an increasing number of subscriptions from countries
other than the United States. The Relief Society Magazine is note-
worthy as a medium through which the sisterhood in the world grows
closer together.
The Spanish edition is a potent tool strengthening the Spanish-
speaking sisters, both those in the United States and in Mexico,
Central, and South America.
The General Board extends their great percentage increases this past year. 38,
gratitude to the entire staff who congratulated. Their appreciation also extends to all the Southern
30 and 25 per cent respectively. In the missions, the Southern
Australian and the Alaskan-Canadian missions are to be congratulated
on the General Board extends its sincere thanks to everyone who has
contributed to the success of The Relief Society Magazine in the homes and
placing The Relief Society Magazine, who subscribe so faithfully year and
lives in 1956. For the twenty-second year, South Los Angeles Stake also to those
leads the Church in the percentage of subscriptions, followed for the also
year by the San Bernardino Stake of each Stake of the Honor Roll and a write such appreciative letters to the General Board, many of which
California and one each from Utah, Idaho, and appear on the front year and for page.

376
