[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 337 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Their journeys follow closely the historic Smoky Hill Trail, along which the pioneer wagons rolled a century ago. All summer long the Heffners run their wagon trains, with Frank as wagonmaster, Ruth as hostess, son David as wrangler, and daughter Ruth playing the accordion by the campfires at night. Joy Courtney, age twenty-five, formerly of Vicksburg, Mississippi, is a bush pilot, flying commercial tourist planes out of Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, Africa. She has logged 3,000 hours of accident-free flying. Rosemary Ryan, who tives in Toorak, an exclusive suburb of Melbourne, Australia, has recently been honored with a special exhibition of her paintings at the South Yarra Gallery. Her specialty is painting with spray guns on large canvases, and touching up the details of the paintings with small brushes. She has exhibited five times in Melbourne, and many times in other Australian cities. Women in the United States Forest Service are enjoying a variety of challenging and remunerative careers. Administrative opportunities include financial management, personnel management, computer programming, writing, and editing. Other opportunities are in the fields of forest recreation, range conservation, landscape architecture, and engineering. Occupational titles include plant physiologist, physicist, chemist, botanist, wild-life biologist, economist, systems analyst, and forest products technologist. Celestine Sibley's book, A Place Called Sweet Apple, relates the deep joy and quiet security which came to her in a cabin in the hiils of Georgia. An Atlanta newspaperwoman, Miss Sibley notes the small, beautiful events which reward one who seeks simplicity in her life and in her surroundings. A number of unusual recipes are included, as well as practical suggestions for making a cabin or a small house into a home. Abbie Rees Madsen, American Fork, Utah, a contributor to the Relief Society Magazine, won honorable mention in the Writer's Digest poetry contest for 1968, for her poem "Rootbound."' Dee Sanford, Spanish Fork, Utah (former president of the League of Utah Writers), received honorable mention for her poem ''The Broken Harness."' More than 3,000 poems were entered in the contest. 337 Volume 55 May 1968