[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 2 | Fiction | If Spring Be | Late Chapter]
[If Spring Be Late Chapter]
IN HEAVEN'S SPRING
Gay N. Blanchard

Somewhere heaven's spring has lost
A misty orchard of old apple trees
Wildly spilling fragrance
From its vagrant boughs.
Seeking solitude for prayer,
I chanced upon its pale pink banks
Piled recklessly upon the green,
All drenched in sweet spring rain—
And held suspended there
Before a white-iced mountain,
Palely mist-miraged
With one low strip of cloud.

Breathless I stood
As quietly
The hallowed hush enveloped me.
My solemn prayer that you would find
All joy, all truth, all peace of mind
Ascended with the lifting mist,
Potent with faith,
Irrevocable.

One burning breath
My heart cried out in fear,
Because I knew
That sorrow, searching, struggle, pain,
The price of such eternal gain,
Was also what I'd asked,
My dear, for you.

Then gently as the falling rain
Touched face and hair and wet-lashed eyes,
A liquid cloak of peace distilled
And wrapped me round with surety
That you would be enfolded, too,
With peace, and will
And God's own strength to see you through.
All senses merged into the essence of that silent scene.
And there I knew
Whatever distance, time or space
Should intervene,
Our spirits always would be tuned
In fragile harmony . . .
And at some pale pink blossomed place
We would again touch hands
In heaven's spring.

Gay Nelson Blanchard, first Prize winner in the poem contest, is a newcomer to the pages of The Relief Society Magazine.
She describes her poem, "In Heaven's Spring," as an actual experience which moved her so deeply that she had to put it on paper. "This is the way most of my poetry is inspired," she relates. "Then comes the hard work."
Mrs. Blanchard is the wife of Daren Blanchard, Cottonwood, Utah. They have six children, four daughters and two sons. The eldest son is serving a mission in New Zealand.
Sister Blanchard says that she is grateful and honored to have been chosen a winner in the contest. Her first published poem received an award in a college poetry contest. She has also written two musical plays in collaboration with her sister and a cousin, and is currently working on a book of songs for children.
Her writing is influenced and inspired by her lovely family and her many friends, and by her appreciation of beauty instilled in her by her parents. Her grandmother, Amanda Bagley, was instrumental in the founding of the original Cottonwood Maternity Hospital.
Sister Blanchard has a strong testimony of the gospel, a keen awareness of God's detailed care in arranging this fascinating world, and a fervent appreciation for his love and patience.