[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 356 | General Feature | Konsternation in the Kitchen | Helen Hinckley Jones]
nckley Jones "TI guess it would be too late to add some concentrated gelatin," someone suggested. "Far too late," Jasmine agreed. "Why don't we take it up to Clarice's and put it in the freezer?" was the next suggestion. Blocks of ice didn't sound appetizing. "We'll have to run out and get some lettuce and tuna-fish and make a quick salad," Sally decided. With a certain amount of timidity and humility, the non-cook spoke up. The non-cook was accustomed to failure. When her gelatin dessert didn't jell she used it as punch base and served it with cookies. When her custard, blancmange, tapioca, or sago refused to thicken she served it as sauce over drained canned peach halves. When her cake was too moist, she cut it in squares, sprinkled it with powdered sugar, and called the result brownies, or when it was too dry, she steamed it and served it with lemon sauce for pudding. When she cut into her meat loaf and found it still raw, she sliced it, slathered each slice with barbecue sauce, and finished cooking it under the broiler.

[Konsternation in the Kitchen Helen Hinckley Jones]

The negative statement of the same truth might be, "Nothing fails like failure." But this isn't true. Nothing stretches our ingenuity, our abilities, like an unexpected "unset salad," and no success is as sweet as that which was born in near failure. 357 Ways to Use Leftover Pie Dough Dorothy Todd = Pie dough is for making pies. But whether you use an old family recipe or commercially produced piecrust mix, you can use the leftover pie dough ina variety of ways. Uses for Scraps Intriguing novelties made from pieces of dough left over from trimming the crusts for a pie, are useful and delicious. Scrap dough may be rolled a second, or even a third time, if handled lightly. 1. Turnovers: These are little rectangles of dough filled with jam, preserves, applesauce, or mincemeat. Gather the scraps of pie dough into a ball, and roll about 1/4-inch thick. Cut into rectangles 2 or 3 inches wide and 4 or 5 inches long. Fold 1/4 of the length from one end of the rectangle, and in this fold cut 3 or 4 slits 1/2-inch long, for the escape of air. Lay the rectangle flat again, and in the center of the unslit half, place about one tablespoon of filling. With cold water, moisten the edges of this half and fold the other half over it. Seal by pressing edges together with fingertips or tines of a fork. Bake on a cookie sheet, pie tin, or other shallow baking pan at 425° until edges are brown and filling bubbling (8 to 10 minutes). 2. After School Treats: These dainty bites consist of two layers of dough with a hole in the top to contain jelly or preserves. Roll dough as for turnovers. Cut round pieces with a circular cutter, and remove a smaller circle from the center of half of them. Place the whole circle on a shallow baking the center cut out on each. Bake until edges are brown, 6 to 8 minutes, at 425°. When cool, fill centers with one to two teaspoons of filling. Cut these in other fancy shapes if desired, but remember to cut the hole for the filling 3. Decorated Pastries: These little pastries have a melt-in-your-mouth quality. The use of colored frosting and a variety of shapes make them very festive. Pink valentines, green shamrocks, and orange Halloween pumpkins are produced with ease. Roll dough as above. With plain or fancy cutters, cut cookies and place on cookie sheet or other shallow pan. Bake in 425° oven until edges are brown. Watch them carefully, less than five minutes may bake them enough. Remove at once from baking sheet and, when the cookies cool, spread with a thin coat either of butter frosting or a powdered sugar icing.