[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 344 | Special Feature | Relief Society an Awakening | Linda Ladd]
My first experience with Relief Society was an awakening. I found friendship with the sisters, fellowship with the sisters, and, more important, I found out that my Heavenly Father had indeed given the sisterhood of this Church something wonderful. As time passed I became a frequent, in fact, a regular visitor at the. Meetings. Strange things began to happen to my life—I started considering things that I had never given much thought to before. I was a person who didn't care for being domestic. I hated to cook, and I hated to sew, and most of all I hated to clean house. It didn't bother me that my husband would have preferred a good cook and a clean house—I wasn't cut out of that mold, and he would just have to accept that. Thanks to Relief Society, the lessons, and the put-into-action examples I saw there, I can say that a drastic change has taken place. One day a sister showed us a coat she had made from an old coat she had bought for fifty cents. I was absolutely amazed to think that things like that were being done in this day and age. I went home that day and thought about what I had seen and heard in that meeting and decided that I would try sewing. I bought the material and made 344 Relief Societyan Awakening my baby a dress, a coat, and hat for Easter. What a thrilling experience to know that I could create, with my own hands, something of value! I never felt such pride, and when I showed my husband the coat, the admiration in his eyes was something I will never forget. At another meeting, my life changed 1 in a different way. We had a talk on home food storage, and canning was discussed at some length. Here were women—modern, well-dressed, well-educated women talking about the ancient art of canning. I thought, that is not for me, but the more I listened, the more I realized that if I were to carry out the home food storage plan I would have to can. I didn't do any canning this season, but I did make forty pints of jam, and believe me, that was an accomplishment! Next year I will add some canning to my growing list of domestic talents. I still don't enjoy cleaning house, but I can honestly say that I am trying harder and doing a better job, and I am taking more pride in my home each day. I've found that as I take more pride in my home and the things connected with it, my husband takes considerable more pride in me. I owe this new fulfillment and enrichment of my life to Relief Society. When I go each week and see women learning to be women, and mothers learning to be mothers, and wives learning to be wives and applying what they learn to their daily lives, I thank my Heavenly Father that I was fortunate enough to be given the opportunity of sharing in this wonderful plan. For the first time in my life, I have a purpose and I feel that through my activities in Relief Society, I am doing some small part to see that God's plans are carried out in the way that he would want them to be. The things I have learned about the gospel and the specific teachings of the Church have helped me immeasurably in my life, and the patience and understanding that are facts of life with the sisters of Relief Society are becoming facts of life in our home. I have far to travel, and much to learn, but through this great Church and this wonderful organization I have made a beginning.