[Vol22 | July 1935 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Jane Evans]

Jane Addams By Amy W. Evans
HOW fitting it was that the friends of Jane Addams came to her beloved Hull House to bid her the last farewell. Men and women, who in their youth had been brought under the influence of that "House of Hope," came with their wide-eyed children and grandchildren to gaze with reverence upon the face of her whom they had so much reason to call blessed. It was especially fitting that among the beautiful flowers that surrounded her as she lay in state in the courtyard that there should be the faces of children, for Jane Addams loved children. Much of her life's work was devoted to their welfare. She caught the spirit and significance of youth. Her understanding of the dreams, the urges, and the needs of the adolescent was profound and compassionate.
FROM the beginning Hull House made provision for the care, education, and protection of the young. There were the kindergarten, the day nursery, the clubs for boys and those for girls, classes in the arts and crafts, the gymnasium and the recreation hall. But perhaps to the heart of youth the most precious thing was this rare understanding that they always found there. It was this rare understanding that made it possible for Jane Addams to perform the work she did in making the world better and safer for children and young people. The girl from the overcrowded tenement home who, bubbling with vitality, breaks from parental control, seeking joy and happiness, not realizing the dangers that beset such a course; the boy asking more of life than the monotony of modern industry, who goes out to find adventure and who comes in conflict with society?these were understood and helped in the search for a safe and wholesome outlet for their natural desires and energies. These are her own words regarding the general lack of understanding of young people and children, "There is a dense ignorance on the part of the average citizen as to the requirements of youth, and a persistent blindness on the part of educators to youth's most obvious needs. The young people are over-borne by their own undirected and misguided energies."
FROM Hull House came a movement fore better Juvenile Court laws, and the attitude toward the offending child was greatly modified for good through this. Miss Addams and her co-workers labored for, and finally succeeded in the establishment of the first playgrounds and swimming pools in Chicago. She was ever an advocate of wholesome play for children and believed the playground to be a training field for good citizenship. Every community, she thought, should provide facilities where children and youth could find opportunity for an expression of their natural desires, urges, and energies. The fact that that invincible love of play and pleasure in the young was allowed to be exploited and commercialized for gain aroused her fighting spirit. She seems to have possessed '"'youth's divine impatience" with society's general disregard of this condition.