[Vol22 | July 1935 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Jane Addams Hodapp]
Therefore she studied the dance halls, the cheap theaters, the music
JANE ADDAMS
and other forms of amusements, so that she was ready with first hand information in her work to change them for the better. In speaking of music she says, "We are informed by high authority that there is nothing in the environment to which youth so keenly responds as to music and yet the streets, the vaudeville shows, the five cent theaters are full of the most blatant and vulgar songs. The trivial and obscene words, the meaningless and flippant airs run through the heads of hundreds of young people for hours at a time while they are engaged in monotonous factory work. We totally ignore that ancient connection between music and morals which was so long insisted upon by philosophers as well as poets." Of the theater which she calls "The House of Dreams" she says in her Spirit of Youth, "Nothing is more touching than an encounter with a group of children and young people who are emerging from a theater with the magic of the play still thick upon them. They look up and down the familiar street scarcely recognizing it and quite unable to determine the direction of home. From a tangle of 'make believe' they gravely scrutinize the real world which they are so reluctant to reenter reminding one of the absorbed gaze of a child who is groping his way back from fairy-land whither the story has completely transported him," and further she says, '""There is no doubt that what they hear there, flimsy and poor as it often is, easily becomes their actual moral guide." From her experience at Hull House she knew just how much the theater meant in the lives of young people. She tells of many tragic happenings that were a result of the influence and love of the "House of Dreams." Not that she wished to keep young persons from the shows, but she wanted shows of the right kind, and when she recognized the importance of a thing her plan was to work for it. It was the same with regard to dance halls and other places where recreation was commercialized.
