[Vol33 | March 1946 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society and the Widtsoe]
Photograph by Willard Luce. VOL. 33, NO. 3 MARCH 1946 "SINGLE ROSES" From a Water Color by Artemesia R. Romney Relief Society and the Future Leah D. Widtsoe FAMILY life is best lived when man and wife form a real partnership, each pulling an equal share of the load and sharing equally in responsibility. It would be unfair and results would be far from happy if the man received most of the advantages and possessed any great gift from which his life partner were excluded.
This is especially the case if the exclusion is simply because she is a woman. A Glimpse Into the Past When the true Church of Christ was restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the equal rights of men and women on earth and before God were assured.
From the first, women were asked to exercise their religious franchise, the same as were the male members.
Their votes in sustaining officers were accepted as were men's, and that practice continues to this day. 'The great and primal right of free agency belongs to all God's children to his daughters as well as to his sons. In order to give women greater opportunities for progress, the Relief Society was organized through inspiration by the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842. It was organized to "purge out iniquity" from their midst, but always to be "armed with mercy" in pursuance of their righteous labors. And, while the purpose which caused the sisters to want an organization was the desire to aid the poor and needy, yet the Prophet greatly enlarged its scope by declaring: "The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." 'This incentive should stimulate the women of the Church to be active in this Society and to carry on incessantly.
When the priesthood was restored, it was bestowed on all the righteous male members of the Church, but the blessings accruing therefrom are for the benefit of all Church members, men, women, and children.
