[Vol33 | March 1946 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Save Those Schow]
THE  BEST  LITTLE  SHRUB 
195 
think  about  it  but  I  was  plenty  upset 
at  the  time." 
Daphne  took  off  the  baby's  shoes 
so  that  he  could  wiggle  his  toes  lux- 
uriously and,  with  lowered  eyes, 
asked,  ''But  there  are  times— don't 
you  think,  when  a  couple  is  justified 
in  separating?" 
'Terhaps,  on  very  rare  occasions. 
But,  my  goodness,  what  a  woman,  or 
a  man  either,  for  that  matter,  will 
give  up  for  what  is  called  'freedom,' 
all  the  love  and  heartaches,  joys  and 
sorrows,  that  go  into  the  making  of  a 
full  life.  The  person  who  hasn't  had 
a  chance  to  experience  some  of  the 
heartaches  has  missed  a  wonderful 
chance  for  growth." 
"I'm  sure  you're  right,"  said 
Daphne,  quietly  patting  Jimmy's  a- 
dorably  plump  little  leg. 
"And  here  I  go  on,  forgetting  my 
teachers'  message,"  said  Aline,  sud- 
denly diving  into  her  handbag. 
"Let  me  see  now,  what  was  it?  Do 
you  know  I'm  just  awful  about  visit- 
ing and  forgetting  my  message.  Oh, 
yes,  here  it  is: 
Sources  of  Strength — Charity.  Charity 
Doth  not  Behave  Itself  Unseemly.  The 
secret  of  developing  this  type  of  charity  is 
to  keep  in  mind,  not  the  giver  nor  the 
gift,  but  the  need  and  joy  of  the  person 
who  is  to  be  the  recipient  of  one's  love 
and  good  will  .... 
Sister  Mortensen  spoke  quietly. 
Finally  she  paused  and  looked  di- 
rectly across  the  room  at  Daphne. 
"It  takes  great  strength  to  be  truly 
charitable—" 
"I'm  sure  that  it  does,"  murmured 
Daphne,  dropping  her  head  to  the 
baby's  so  that  her  visitor  wouldn't 
notice  the  sudden  mist  in  her  eyes. 
"Well,  I  must  run  along,"  said 
Aline,  rising.  "I  still  have  a  dozen 
calls  to  make  and  Henry  pretends  to 
be  tearing  his  hair  out  if  I'm  late 
getting  home.  I've  enjoyed  visiting 
with  you  again." 
"Thank  you,  it's  been  nice  having 
you  call,"  returned  Daphne  as  she 
walked  with  her  guest  to  the  door. 
The  minute  it  was  closed  she 
rushed  back  to  the  bedroom  and  put 
Jimmy  in  his  crib  with  such  violence 
that  he  sent  forth  a  protesting  shriek. 
Then  she  lifted  her  half-filled  suit- 
case to  the  cedar  chest  and  started  to 
unpack.  It  was  only  a  matter  of 
minutes  before  her  dresses  were  once 
more  hanging  in  the  closet  and  other 
things  returned  to  their  proper 
places  in  the  dresser  drawers. 
"It's  a  good  thing  that  I  didn't 
have  time  to  pack  your  stuff.  Buster," 
she  said  as  she  pushed  the  other 
suitcase  out  of  sight. 
With  that  accomplished,  she  sat 
down  at  her  dressing  table  and  gave 
her  hair  a  thorough  brushing.  "This 
is  a  wonderful  way  to  relieve  your 
feelings,  Jimmy,  my  lad,"  she  ad- 
vised. "Next  time  you  have  some- 
thing on  your  mind  just  sit  down  and 
brush  the  daylights  into  your  hair,  or 
else  scrub  the  kitchen  floor  or  dig  up 
a  patch  of  the  back  yard  before  you 
do  anything  ridiculous.  And  don't 
forget,"  she  continued  softly,  com- 
ing over  to  his  crib,  "to  always  be 
charitable.  It's  an  awfully  poor 
excuse  of  a  person  who  can't  under- 
stand the  charitable  impulse.  Don't 
forget  that,  ever— will  you?" 
The  baby  gurgled  happily  and 
then  went  back  to  examining  his 
pink  toes.  Daphne  walked  over  to 
the  dressing  table  and  brushed  her 
softhair  into  a  bun  at  the  nape  of  her 
neck.  Rod  liked  it  that  way.  He 
said  it  made  her  look  like  a  Gains- 
borough painting. 
*  *  *  *

196  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1946 
Aline  glanced  hastily  at  her  watch  kind  of  an  afternoon  did  you  have? 
as  she  came  down  the  walk  from  the  Anything  new  on  the  beat?'' 
Hubbard  house.  She  really  shouldn't  "On  the  district,  Darling/'  she 
have  stayed  so  long  but  it  had  been  reprimanded  him  mildly,  taking  off 
pretty  hard  to  convince  Retta  that  her  hat  and  moving  toward  the  bed- 
she  could  still  exercise  faith  and  room.  "No,  nothing  unusual  at  all," 
charity  when  her  granddaughter  was  she  added,  coming  back  with  a  big 
dovm  with  polio.  She  was  sure  that  kitchen  apron.  "Retta  is  worried 
she  had  left  Retta  feeling  better,  about  her  granddaughter  but  I  tried 
though.  Five  o'clock!  Where  had  to  tell  her  that  they  are  doing 
this  afternoon  gone  to?  And  what  wonders  with  that  new  treatment 
would  Henry  say?  This  was  his  for  polio  now.  Ellen  is  going  on  a 
evening  for  visiting  his  mother  and  trip  with  her  mother-in-law  and  that 
he  would  want  an  early  dinner.  young  Mrs.  Rhoades  talked  a  bit  as 
She  found  that  worthy  in   the  if  they  might  be  going  to  move, 
kitchen  peeling  potatoes  by  cutting  Maybe  they  need  a  bigger  place  now 
away  generous  pieces.  that  they  have  the  baby." 
"Henry!"   she  cried.    What  are  /.'Well  it  sounds  as  if  my  pine  is 
you  doing  to  those  potatoes?  Don't  ^^'J.   ^^^   ''^}^'     ^^  commented, 
you  know  that  you  throw  away  all  ^^!!^!"g  ^^^^  ^^^  P^^"g  ^^^^^-   , 
It-          j     t,                   1  1.1,       ti  Not    a    pme,    Darlmg,    lust    a 
the  good  when  you  peel  them  hke  i^    -u^    -u           •  j  j  i,-          i-i, 
,     °,                 J       ir  shrub,     she  remmded  him    with  a 
t^^*-  smile. 
"And  here  I  thought  all  the  time  "Maybe  so,"   said   Henry  as  he 
that  the  center  was  the  best  part,"  trailed  off  into  the  living  room  in 
he   answered  cheerfully.    "I   guess  search  of  the  evening  paper.  "Maybe 
that's  the  celery— or  lettuce.    What  so." 
PATTERN 
Eleanor  Welch  Schow 
I 
Father,  the  world  is  filled  with  pain  and  woe. 
By  night  the  terror  walks; 
The  hearts  of  men  wax  cold;  the  arrow  flies 
By  day;  gaunt  hunger  stalks 
The  weak  and  poor.    The  while,  in  this  blest  land, 
Laden,  the  orchards  bend. 
While  apples,  red  and  gold,  and  purple  plums 
In  gorgeous  colors  blend 
With  grasses  green,  like  orient  carpets  spread 
Upon  the  earth.    Yet  we 
Hoard  and  are  loth  to  heed  the  orphan's  cry. 
Drift,  and  are  slow  to  see 
Their  need.   Father,  God,  show  us,  we  pray. 
The  path  to  life  eternal,  the  straight  way.

PATTERN     •  197 
II   
Over  a  hundred  years  ago,  a  Prophet  called 
A  small  assembly,  gathered  in  Christ's  name 
To  do  the  deeds  of  loving  charity 
That  everyone  must  do  who  dares  to  claim 
Christ  as  a  brother.    He  revealed  to  them 
A  plan,  a  call  to  women  to  unite 
In  loving  kindliness  and  sisterhood 
To  help  the  erring  find  the  path  of  right. 
This  way  they  passed  along  the  stretch  of  years 
And  grew  in  strength  and  knowledge  every  day; 
They  blazed  a  trail  through  suffering's  wilderness 
And  placed  their  pattern  along  the  way. 
Today,  one  hundred  thousand  members  march 
In  strength  of  womanhood.    This  is  no  wraith 
Of  something  that  has  been;  this  sisterhood 
Has  shown  the  world  one  hundred  years  of  faith! 
The  hearts  of  these  fail  not  in  times  of  stress. 
But  bravely  show  the  weak  the  way  to  cope 
With  sin;  they  nurse  the  sick  and  aid  the  poor. 
Supported  by  one  hundred  years  of  hope. 
The  lamps  of  loving  kindness  ever  burn 
Behind  them  on  the  trail  with  clarity. 
To  show  the  path  their  steady  feet  have  trod. 
Throughout  a  century  of  charity. 
Ill 
Dear  God,  forgive  the  selfish  ones  who  hoard  their  fcod 
While  hungry  children  cry; 
Forgive  the  petty  stores  of  pretty  silks, 
When  men  must  chill  and  die. 
Help  us,  as  they,  along  the  ways  of  want 
To  let  our  light  so  shine 
That  all  may  see  and  glorify  thy  name! 
May  we  true  Christians  be; 
Give  us  the  eyes  to  see,  the  will  to  show 
Unfailing  charity. 
To  leave  for  all  who  follow  through  the  strife 
This  pattern  along  our  path  of  life.

And  For  Eternity 
Olive  WooIJey  Burt 
Chapter  lo  (Conclusion) 
THE  spring  days  floated  by  as 
lightly  as  almond  blossoms, 
each  one  filled  with  the  per- 
fume of  growing  things  and  the 
sweetness  of  spring  breezes— but 
each  one  bringing  closer  the  day 
when  Alec's  and  Jim's  leave  would 
end. 
Now  Alec  begrudged  the  hours 
that  Delsa  spent  with  Jeff  Holden's 
children. 
''Don't  go  over  there  tonight,  Del- 
sa," he  would  beg.  'Tve  such  a 
few  days  left.  Let's  go  riding  up  to 
our  boulder." 
Sometimes  she  would  listen  to  his 
pleading  and  would  barely  glance  in 
on  the  children  and  then  would  hur- 
ry home,  slip  into  her  rodeo  pants 
and  plaid  shirt,  saddle  and  bridle 
Blue  Star,  and  meet  Alec.  Then 
they'd  ride,  galloping  along  the 
road,  cutting  across  the  brush-cov- 
ered flat,  urging  their  horses  up  the 
steep  canyon  paths. 
Delsa  liked  these  afternoons  best 
of  all,  because  while  they  were  riding 
Alec  looked  almost  completely  hap- 
py. Of  course,  when  they  stopped, 
he  was  bound  to  look  gloomily  into 
the  future,  but  often  she  could  think 
of  places  to  go  that  were  far  enough 
away  so  that  they  had  no  time  for 
these  pensive  talks. 
At  other  times  Delsa  would  have 
to  stay  at  Jeff's  till  quite  late,  taking 
care  of  the  youngsters,  soothing  Mrs. 
Reeder's  ruffled  spirits.  Davy,  though 
still  a  baby,  was  almost  more  than 
the  tactless  and  inexperienced  wom- 
an could  handle. 
Page  198 
Delsa  understood  what  was  wrong 
with  the  little  boy— no,  not  wrong 
with  him— but  what  caused  him  to 
act  as  he  did.  It  was  spring.  The 
warm  air  invited  the  youngster  to 
come  outdoors  and  play.  And  he 
would  answer  that  invitation,  pla\- 
ing  until  he  was  too  weary  to  mind 
what  he  was  told,  too  utterly  worn 
out  to  obey  even  the  simplest  com- 
mands, and  Mrs.  Reeder's  com- 
mands were  not  always  simple. 
Then  again,  the  spring  thaw  made 
many  fascinating  mud  puddles,  and 
Davy  could  not  keep  his  hands  and 
feet  out  of  the  inviting  mixture.  This 
made  extra  work  for  his  guardian, 
and  extra  work  meant  irritability. 
So,  very  often  when  Delsa  went  to 
the  little  house  she  found  Davy  in 
tears,  and  Mrs.  Reeder  scolding.  It 
took  time  to  bring  order  out  of  this 
chaos,  and  Delsa  would  forget  that 
Alec  was  waiting  impatiently  while 
she  bathed  the  little  boy,  gave  him 
warm  supper,  and  got  him  into  bed. 
Trudy,  still  too  young  to  make  the 
mischief  her  brother  made,  and  yet 
old  enough  to  care  for  herself  a  little, 
was  a  different  kind  of  worry  to  Del- 
sa. Mrs.  Reeder  would  put  the  bab\ 
in  her  pen  and  leave  her  alone  for 
hours.  Because  she  was  a  good  babv 
and  happy  under  most  circumstan- 
ces, she  was  left  alone  too  much,  and 
Delsa  could  think  of  hundreds  of  ac- 
cidents that  might  happen  to  the 
child. 
The  truth  was,  Delsa  admitted  to 
Alec  one  night  when  he  was  scolding 
her  for  neglecting  him,  the  children

AND  FOR  ETERNITY 
199 
were  becoming  so  dear  to  Delsa  that 
she  hated  to  be  away  from  them.  She 
might  chafe  at  the  responsibihty  that 
included  keeping  Mrs.  Reeder  hap- 
py, but  the  care  of  the  children  was 
sheer  pleasure. 
OETWEEN  Jeff  and  Delsa  had 
risen  an  icy  barrier  of  reserve. 
Jeff  seldom  came  into  the  house 
while  Delsa  was  there,  but  as  it  was 
planting  time  and  he  had  his  farm 
to  care  for  as  well  as  his  job,  his  stay- 
ing outside  until  after  she  left  was 
excusable.  At  school  he  talked  to 
her  quietly,  friendly  enough  when 
there  was  soething  that  had  to  be 
said;  the  rest,  of  the  time  he  left 
her  to  herself. 
One  afternoon  Alec  was  waiting 
outside  the  schoolhouse  when  Del- 
sa came  out  on  her  way  to  Jeff's. 
''Listen,  Delsa,"  he  said  eagerly, 
"let's  saddle  the  horses  and  ride 
down  the  valley  this  afternoon.  Jim's 
been  telling  me  about  an  old  Indian 
that  lives  out  about  four  miles  and 
I  want  to  see  him.  A  real  Indian! 
I  don't  know  why  no  one  ever  told 
me  about  him  before!" 
"Old  Chickup!"  laughed   Delsa. 
"I  guess  no  one  thought    he    was 
worth  telling  about.  We  never  even 
think  of  him." 
"Jim  says  he  has  a  wonderful  col- 
lection of  authentic  arrowheads.  I 
do  want  to  see  them,  Delsa.  Let's 
go.    You  can  show  me  the  way." 
Delsa  shook  her  head. 
"I'd  love  to,  Alec,  but  I  can't  to- 
night. I  promised  Davy  that  if  he'd 
be  a  good  boy  today  I  would  show 
him  how  to  make  windmills  like  the 
first  graders.  I  can't  disappoint 
im. 
"You  can  disappoint  me,  though," 
Alec  said  sulkily.  "Look,  Delsa, 
you'll  have  those  kids  to  tend  as  long 
as  you  want  them.  I  think  Jeff  Hold- 
en  has  imposed  on  you  long  enough. 
He  can  hire  someone  to  tend  his 
kids  for  him  and  not  tie  you  down 
this  way  all  the  time.  Tell  him 
you're  not  coming  tonight." 
"It  isn't  Jeff's  fault  that  I  go  over 
there.  Alec,"  Delsa  said  soberly.  "I 
really  think  Jeff  would  be  glad  if  I 
didn't  have  to  come,  but  I  do  have 
to.  He  can't  get  anyone  else.  You 
know  for  yourself  how  busy  everyone 
IS. 
"Don't  I,  though!"  grumbled 
Alec,  and  added  angrily,  "If  I  could 
have  found  anyone  else  to  show  me, 
I  wouldn't  have  bothered  you,  know- 
ing that  you'd  rather  play  nurse- 
maid." 
"You're  being  childish.  Alec," 
Delsa  said  quietly.  "I've  really  got 
to  hurry!" 
"Well,  hurry  then;  nothing's  stop- 
phig  you!"  he  answered  shortly,  and 
turned  and  walked  swiftly  away. 
Delsa  felt  as  if  he  had  actuallv 
slapped  her,  and  her  face  burned 
with  anger  and  resentment  and 
shame  as  she  ran  down  the  road  to 
Jeff's  house. 
Davy  hadn't  been  a  good  boy,  she 
found  when  she  entered  the  house, 
and  Mrs.  Reeder,  exasperated  be- 
yond her  forbearance,  had  taken  mat- 
ters into  her  own  hands.  Delsa 
found  Da\7  sobbing  as  if  his  heart 
would  break  and  when  she  went  to 
pick  him  up  she  cried  out  in  anger 
and  surprise.  He  was  tied  to  the 
table  leg  with  a  short  length  of  rope 
—tied  so  tightly  that  the  rope  cut 
into  his  fat  little  middle,  obviously 
hurting  him. 
Delsa's  hands  were  shaking  as  she