[Vol33 | March 1946 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Her Andersen]
HER  STAF 
Hortense  Spencer  Anderson 
The  years  had  brought  despair,  and  vicious  sting 
Of  loneliness  and  want;  yet  she  toiled  long 
For  many  others,  always  mastering 
Herself,  and  in  return  her  faith  grew  strong. 
With  service,  she  had  won  serenity 
Like  cool,  refreshing  shade  on  a  summer  lake 
Surrounding  her,  she  the  willow  tree, 
Which  trembled  in  the  storm,  but  did  not  break. 
And  then,  as  if  outraged,  in  jealous  mood, 
That  she  should  stand  with  grace  and  fortitude, 
The  storm  redoubled;  in  fury  the  lightning  flared; 
And  she  lay  ravaged  by  grief  and  pain,  ensnared. 
Grief  and  pain,  because  she  now  was  blind. 
No  more  could  she  behold  this  wonderland, 
Nor  toil  for  others,  seeking  through  the  grind 
To  mend  ....  What  had  she  left  to  help  her  stand? 
Bereft  of  sons  and  home,  in  woe  complete. 
She  asked,  "Is  there  a  staff  within  my  scope, 
Or  was  it  for  this  chastening  defeat 
Time  led  me  through  delusive  fields  of  hope?" 
She  found  her  staff,  made  ready,  on  the  shelf 
Of  tested  treasures,  where  it  had  always  lain, 
Unbroken,  guarded  still,  within  herself. 
Her  staff  of  faith  would  help  her  rise  again.

A  Few  of  Our  Gifted  Utah 
Women  Artists 
Alice  MeniU  Home 
Former  Member  Relief  Society  General  Board 
PART  III 
Note:  Part  I  of  this  series  appeared  in  December  1944,  and  Part  II  in  January  1945 
EACH  year  it  has  been  my  cher- 
ished privilege  to  introduce  at 
least  two  young  would-be- 
artists  with  a  one-man  show  at 
Z.  C.  M.  I.  The  latest  addition  to 
the  ranks  of  our  artist  colony  is 
Maude  Maye  Nebeker,  whose  work 
already  reveals  strength,  courage,  and 
a  good  selection  of  subjects.  You  will 
like  her  work.  Mrs.  Nebeker's  hus- 
band is  the  son  of  my  old  friend 
Aquilla  Nebeker,  the  President  of 
the  Senate  while  I  served  in  the 
Third  Legislature  as  a  representative. 
But  once,  instead  of  choosing  a 
young  artist,  I  happened  on  a  lady 
of  dignity  and  charm  who  had  been 
painting  around  for  years.  That  is 
how,  at  sixty-six  years  young,  Arte- 
mesia  Redd  Romney  had  her  first 
exhibition  at  Z.C.M.I.  Tiffin  Room. 
Mrs.  Romney  has  mothered  ten 
"GARDENIAS"— Bessie  Alice  Bancroft 
Page  151

152 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1946 
children  besides  looking  after  many 
missionary  lads.  Indeed,  she  has 
the  ease  and  grace  of  the  mother  of 
a  battalion.  Her  life  story  reads  like 
the  book  of  fate. 
Of  late,  the  whole  world  has  been 
celebrating  V-J  Day,  August  14. 
Artemesia  Redd  first  saw  the  light 
August  14, 1874.  The  parents,  Lem- 
uel Hardison  and  Louisa  Chamber- 
lain Redd,  were  pioneers  of  experi- 
ence. Louisa  was  bom  in  Salt  Lake 
City  in  the  early  1849's.  Her  father, 
Solomon  Chamberlain,  was  one  of 
the  original  pioneer  company  of 
1847.  The  Redd  family  was  called 
by  Brigham  Young  to  establish  New 
Harmony  in  Washington  County 
in  Southern  Utah.  Lemuel  Redd 
was  a  sheep  rancher. 
Louisa  Redd  reared  twelve  sons 
and  daughters  to  manhood  and 
womanhood.  Artemesia,  the  eldest 
daughter,  became  an  expert  baby 
tender.  She  was  habitually  creating 
pictures  with  any  mediums  at 
hand.  Even  that  did  not  prevent 
this  ambitious  girl  from  helping  her 
mother  to  reel  yarn,  card  wool,  spin, 
and  knit  her  own  stockings.  Arte- 
mesia went  to  school  until  she  was 
thirteen  years  of  age.  At  this  period 
the  family  moved  to  Bluff,  San  Juan 
County.  Next  they  moved  to  Old 
Mexico  when  the  subject  of  our 
sketch  drove  the  team  much  of  the 
way  to  Colonia  Juarez  where  the 
Redd  family  settled.  In  Juarez, 
Artemesia  met  her  future  mate, 
George  S.  Romney,  to  whom  she 
was  married  December  5, 1894. 
Mr.  Romney,  a  carpenter  and 
builder,  had  larger  ambitions.  He 
was  very  studious  and  worked  for 
years  taking  out  his  Master's  and 
Doctor's  degrees,  after  the  family 
was  driven  out  of  Mexico  by  the 
Mexican  rebels.  Seven  children  had 
been  bom  to  them  in  Mexico  and 
three  others  were  added  in  Los  An- 
geles and  Oakley,  Idaho. 
In  Salt  Lake  City,  and  later  in 
Chicago,  Mr.  Romney  pursued  his 
education.  For  thirteen  years  at 
Cassia  Academy,  Oakley,  Idaho, 
while  her  husband  served  as  presi- 
dent, Artemesia  studied  courses  in 
art.  While  her  husband  studied  at 
the  University  of  Chicago,  Mrs. 
Romney  painted  pictures.  Her  hus- 
band then  was  chosen  head  of  the 
Northem  States  Mission.  Responsi- 
bility doubled  on  this,  our  artist,  as 
she  mothered  missionaries  and 
supervised  thirty  Relief  Societies.  In 
the  midst  of  this  exacting  work,  her 
husband  passed  away.  Upon  the 
death  of  her  mate,  she  plunged  into 
painting  for  relief  and  comfort. 
At  Brigham  Young  University, 
Provo,  Utah,  Mrs.  Romney  studied 
under  B.  F.  Larsen  and  Verla  Bir- 
rell.  In  Kaysville,  she  continued 
under  Le  Conte  Stewart.  Finally, 
she  retumed  to  the  Art  Students' 
League  in  Chicago  where  she  pre- 
pared to  exhibit  her  water  colors.  On 
her  return  home,  at  the  4ge  of  sixty- 
six,  Artemesia  Redd  Romney  saw 
her  work  hung  at  the  Z.C.M.I.  Tiffin 
Room  in  a  one-man  show.  So  this 
intrepid  pioneer  woman  is  busy 
painting  exquisite  pictures  of  flowers. 
OESSIE    ALICE    BANCROFT, 
former  art  instructor  at  West 
High  School  and  Horace  Mann 
School,  died  last  May  23d  at 
fifty-eight  years  of  age.  With 
a  powerful  mentality,  though  a  weak 
body,  she  accomplished  very  much, 
seeking  to  inspire  young  people   to
