Arise and Shine Amid the World's Deep Night One of the Latter-day Saint hymns calls upon us to "Arise and shine in splendor, amid the world's deep night." The words 'world's deep night," are significant, suggesting, as they do, great precision in their selection. In the blaze and dazzle of our 20th century civilization it is difficult to realize how much superstition and spiritual darkness is to be found in our so-called up-to-date world. After spending a year abroad amid sights and sounds that for the most part please, we have often been greatly pained and profoundly shocked at the depth of superstition that tells of the world's deep night. For instance, there is a city in Germany that claims to be in possession of the bones of the three magi. If one visits that city some one is pretty sure to point to a certain gate, forming part of the old walls of the city, and in all solemnity say that the bones of the three magi were brought through that gate into the city. The visitor may see a silver box resembling in shape the Noah's Arks children play with, made of solid silver and very elaborately decorated with statues of saints. This most extraordinary box was made in the 12th century for the express purpose of forming a fitting receptacle for the bones of the magi. That box is being exhibited at a summer Exposition in Europe. It is marvelous as a specimen of 12th century art, but terrible as an example of religious belief. To be sure, none of the readers of the Magazine will believe


for an instance that this German city ever had the bones of the magi, the absurdity of the whole thing will dawn upon any one who gives it a moment's thought, yet this is only one of the instances that might be cited of claims that can have no foundation in truth, of superstitions that bind the minds and hearts of men, and keep them from finding the Lord. Hence the gratitude that should fill the heart of every Latter-day Saint, that we have been taken away from this superstition and that our lot has been cast among the virgin hills and blue skies, and above all else that the gospel has been brought to us and that through it we have been delivered from the bondage of ignorance. This editorial will reach our readers soon after the October conference. At that conference we heard as we have heard in many conferences of the past, clear expositions of the truth as revealed through our latter-day prophets. Against the background of superstition and gross ignorance that may be found in some parts of the world, the latter-day gospel is as a sunburst, giving joy to all who are made partakers of it. Happy the individual and happy the people who are convinced of its truth. Surely the splendor and the glory of the Lord is descended upon them.