[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 773 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

(To be continued) Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department through the stuke Kelef Society presidents or mission Helrel idents or supervisers, and should be addressed the fulite Rehef Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lak regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in I 1964 issue of t M ] Beaver Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 1, 1965 Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: "In spite of a severe snowstorm, we had fifty per cent attendance. This is quite remarkable when you consider the fact that out of the 216 visiting teachers, forty of them are past eighty years of age, and 105 are past seventy years of age. Kleda Gillins, stake visiting teacher leader, was in charge of the dramatization 'The Lighted Path,' which was given very effectively. Susie Beeson, First Counselor, spoke to the sisters regarding the duties and blessings attendant to their calls. Each visiting teacher was presented with a small gift and a booklet containing the summer messages. Refreshments were in charge of Zona Myers, Second Counselor." 


 Santa Barbara Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert May 22, 1965 Second row, standing, left to right: Gladys B. Carmack, President, Santa Barbara Stake Relief Society; Lillian Johnson, chorister; Gloria Dixon Strauss, violin soloist; Marcine Camp Jardine, vocal soloist. Third row, second from the left: Byrdenne Johnson, organist. Sister Carmack reports: "One hundred Singing Mothers of the Santa Barbara Stake inspired an audience of about 1,000 members and nonmembers, in the high school auditorium, presenting a concert of sacred and secular numbers. The chorus rehearsed two and three days a week for several months, many traveling thirty to forty miles for each rehearsal. Not only do we feel that we presented a cultural program for the community, but the proceeds, amounting to about $1,400, will help build our new stake center." Wilford Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Relief Society Beauty School Project May 7 and June 7, 1965 "Before" and "after" pictures, left to right: Erika Rabe "top specialist"; Elsie Fudge as "Sysie'; Sara Paulsen as "Friend." Elna Hart Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: "The two pictures represent the before and ajter of 'Susie' at a Relief Society Beauty School given on May 7th for the daytime Relief Society, and on June 7th for the evening Relief Society. The skit illustrates how the beauty specialists help Susie with her problems. A style expert showed Susie how to sew for herself and how to teach her daughters to sew, and thus establish a closer bond between them; a literature expert presented the poem 'Opportunity', and a talent expert explained how Susie could hecome more self-confident. A theology expert explained the worth of a testimony of the gospel; and a social science expert discussed the benefits of the Family Home Evening, and that all should be 'doers of the word.' "The Singing Mothers sang and other numbers were presented by special groups. Thirty sisters modeled clothing they had made in the daytime program, and thirty mothers of teenage daughters modeled in the evening. Luncheon was served to over 500 women, and refreshments to 300 working women, husbands, and teenagers in the evening. Many non-Latter-day Saint and non-active women were present at each performance." Billings Stake (Montana) Singing Mothers Present Spring Musicale May 8, 1965 Seated in the front row, left to right, members of Billings Stake Relief Society board: Alvera O. White, Secretary-Treasurer, Nola B. Larsen, Second Counselor; Helen O. 'Thomas, President; Nellie T. Prindle, First Counselor; Maud J. DeVore; Lucy C. Taylor; Dixie R. Marasok; Agnes C. Crow; Julaine J. Cozzens, organist; Helen J. Peacock, chorister. Sister Thomas reports: "The Singing Mothers of Billings Stake presented a 'Spring Musicale—Let There Be Music' on May 8th. From the vibrant tones of the opening number 'Let There Be Music' to the grand finale 'This Is My Country, it was a grand and glorious experience. Most of our wards and branches and our night Relief Society furnished one number each, and the combined chorus sang the opening number, the closing number, and 'As Angels in Heaven.' The songs were in four categories: the home; semi-classic; sacred; and patriotic. Mildred Wilson was the narrator." 


 Gridley Stake (California), Chico Ward "Heritage Anniversary Party" March 1965 Author and cast of play "Now Let Us Rejoice." left to right: Marilyn Prusse; Virginia Dukelow; Beulah Astle; Margaret Mosier (standing), author and producer; Evelyn Hendershott; Ramona Dalling. Rena G. Jenkins, President, Gridley Stake Relief Society, reports: "The 'Heritage Anniversary Party' presented by the Chico Ward Relief Society was the result of hours of willing service by many sisters on different committees. Activities planned to develop the theme of the evening were the following: a pioneer fare dinner, with small 19th century leather-bound editions of the classics on each table. These precious books were loaned by courtesy of the Richard Dukelow family. A focal point of interest was a display of family heirlooms of various members. The high point of the evening was an original one-act play 'Now Let Us Rejoice,' written and produced by Margaret Mosier. It included a scene from pioneer life, then the whole group became a part of a 'Harvest Home Party.' Here there was square dancing and a look at the ward's 'Family Album.' This was a series of projected early photos of ward members. The evening was closed by group participation in singing of old-time songs. Greatly contributing to the spirit of the occasion were the pioneer costumes worn by many of those attending." Minnesota Stake Presents Program "Relief Society Has Something for Everyone" April 16, 1965 Nursery scene, left to right: Susan Williams; Christine Barrus; nursery leader Hannah Hoffman; Scott Stafford; Susan Barrus. Rose Garden scene, models, left to right: Bonny Solie; Patricia Zollinger; Geraldine Jermasek; Barbara Gellert. Vondo O. Williams, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: "In the rose garden foyer, work meeting items were displayed, such as creative handicrafts. Foods for fun, and articles made from ideas found in The Relief Society Magazine. Stake Education Counselor Carol Jardine, and stake Work Counselor LaNay Davis spearheaded the program, with the assistance of stake board members and the sisters of the eleven wards and branches. The objective was to introduce the purpose and activities of Relief Society to husbands, friends, and nonmembers. In addition to the nursery and work meeting displays, scenes were presented from theology, visiting teaching, literature, social science, and The Relief Society Magazine. Renewed interest was created by the Singing Mothers as they presented a variety of musical numbers. An original composition 'Relief Society Song' by stake organist Jane A. Peterson climaxed the program." Glasgow Stake (Scotland) Visiting Teacher Convention March 31, 1965 Barbara Heede.

President, Glasgow Stake Relief Society (seated at the right in the front row), reports that all of the sisters in the picture, except two, are visiting teachers. The visiting teacher message leader was unable to attend the evening the picture was taken. 


 Rose Park Stake (Sait Lake City, Utah) "Swing Into Spring" Fashion Show April 7, 1965 Back row, Standing, left to right, ward counselors: Janice J. Anderson; Dorothy B. Hart; Helen oO. Callahan: Barbara P. Newman; Dorothy B. Monson; Polly TSteenblik: Elaine Madsen; Myrle P. Goff: Bergliot P. Thompson: 778 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 779 Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 68—Knowledge and Events of the Future (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:76-116) For First Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To learn the importance of missionary preparation; the place of education in the gospel; and of events of the future predicted. INTRODUCTION Among the many great truths revealed in Section 88, known as the "Olive Leaf," is the promise of seeing the Savior in his own time and in his own way, provided that the Church member will keep his mind single to God that light may dissipate darkness from mind and body (D&C 88: 67-68). With this counsel before the elders, they were admonished to assemble themselves together that they might purify their hearts in preparation for their ministry assignments (Verses 70- 75). PRAYER AND FASTING Immediately following these admonitions, the Lord commanded that his people fast and pray. Prayer and fasting have often 780 been counseled with many beneficial results promised. Elder James E. Talmage points out that faith is developed with the power to do good when one follows this counsel (Jesus the Christ, page 395; see also Mark 9:14-29). Alma received a testimony of the truth by fasting and praying over a long period of time (Alma 5:46). In order to qualify in missionary service there is a need to seek the Lord humbly through this method. Alma_ records that the sons of Mosiah, through diligent study and because "they had given themselves to much prayer and fasting," had the spirit of prophecy "and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God" (Alma 17:2-3). One of the many benefits of fasting is to prepare one for sincere and humble prayer. The Lord, through his prophets, has instituted the fast day with its opportunity for devout prayer that the membership of his Church might realize, at least monthly, the benefits of this kind of devotion (D&C 88:76; Alma 6:6; 3 Nephi 27:1; Moroni 6:5). President David O. McKay indicated that fasting from two meals once each month and giving the value of these meals for the relief of those in need is the application of Jesus' teachings. (Conference Report, April 1932, page 65). The Prophet Joseph Smith emphasized the need for all to know God through prayer and to pray over one's temporal possessions (DHC V:31). This counsel joins prayer to keeping the commandments in bringing forth the blessings of the Father. Real intent is the measure of success in prayer and in all of one's devotions (Moroni 7:6-8). TEACH ONE ANOTHER In one of the better known admonitions from Section 88 is the counsel to teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom (D&C 88:77). Following this counsel to the early Church, the Lord pointed out the need to become schooled in all things that pertain to the kingdom of God (Verses 78-79). The foregoing advice was given to brethren who had been and would yet proclaim the gospel, as is evident from the verses which follow: That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to LESSON DEPARTMENT magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you. Behold, I sent you out to testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath been warned to warn his neighbor (Verses 80-81). In terms of missionary preparation, with what should the missionary become acquainted in following this instruction to be prepared by study? It is evident from the foregoing verses that the Lord wanted his servants, who were to warn and to testify of the restoration of the gospel, to learn those things which would be of greatest value in discharging this responsibility. Here are the essentials from verses 78 and 79, above: First and foremost, to learn of the law of the gospel that pertains to the kingdom of God, insofar as it was expedient for them to know. This is the study of the principles and ordinances of salvation, which, of course, includes those great moral precepts that should ever guide the Latterday Saint. President Brigham Young said: There are a great many branches of education: some go to college to learn languages, some to study law, some to study physics, and some to study astronomy, and various other branches of science. We want every branch of science taught in this place that is taught in the world.