[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 792 | Lesson | Literature — Growth Through Experience Bruce | B. Clark]
list and short-story writer of the nineteenth century, and "The Bear' by William Faulkner (1897- 1962), eminent American novelist and short-story writer of the twentieth century. "THE NECKLACE" In order to start with the negative and end with the positive, we will discuss "The Necklace" first. Many readers have regarded this as the story of a woman who began life with shallow values but through a distressing incident followed by years of hard work emerged as a wise and good woman, enriched through experience. However, a close reading of the story makes us question this interpretation. As pointed out in the discussion in the text, on a first reading 792 to remain unchanged. "The Necklace" may seem just a clever story with a surprise ending. But it is more than this, and it must be seen as more than this to be fully understood and appreciated. In fact, when read carefully, it emerges as a story without a surprise ending at all. "The Necklace" is above all a character study, and a study in values. When the story opens we see Mathilde Loisel as a fadingly pretty young wife—unhappy, resentful, and self-pitying. In her shallow vanity she is bored by the drab world of her marriage and in her daydreams yearns for a life of gaiety and luxury. She suffered ceaselessly, feeling herself born for all the delicacies and all the luxuries. She suffered from the poverty of her dwelling, from the wretched look of the walls, from the worn-out chairs, from the ugliness of the curtains. All those things, of which another womar of her rank would never even have been conscious, tortured her and made her angry. The sight of the little Breton peasant who did her humble housework aroused in 1 a Othing. Nly ave no ress and: Ought of he herefore I can't go 0 this Il. Give Silent antechambergs hung With Orienyour carg to Some Colleague Whose tal tapestry, lit by tal] bronze Cande. Wife is better €qulpped than I" (text, abra, and of ¢ O great footmen In page 114), nee breeches who Sleep In the big armchairs made drowsy by the heay Warmth he hot air Stove. Sh Even t > Tchase a new thought of; e long salon, fitted up Tess doesn't Satisfy her, because with ancient Uk, of th Icate fy; Sh has O] Iry, Her husban 's niture Trying price] S_CUriositieg Suggestion that she Wear flowers and of the "Odquettish pe ~med boumerely annoys her O viously Olrs ade for talks a five 0 clock er concern is not for genuine With int; ate frien S, with Men fa. B t t disp] f Mous and Sought after, Who ll wom eau or 'Splay en envy and hose att ion they Wealth. § h Orrows a flashy all desire (te » Page 113 diamond necklace fro a rich Acquaintance, Mm Orestier Although She les those with And at the bal] he Spends a a 8ay social] life, She Complains night of nkling e tasy until When her husba a 8es tick. The affair ds a he must ets to a gove ment ball, ecause, return to er dra bartment— as she p 8 lt, she has nothing de. And the terrible Covery that cent to wea She has lost th Insteaq of being delighteg » She threw SCussed more ~~ fully in th text, on the reader's o Seeing that It does n t have a oi € do you want me to do with UIprise en dita, for we are pre. "But, my dear, J thought You would Pared al] throu th Story for be glad U never go Out and this Is the disclosure at the en that the such © PPortunity, 7 ad aw °St necklace was ere] cheap a <n; hone tite te Imitation, For one thing, Mme. Giving many invitationg to clerks, The Forestier allows = Loise] to Whole Officia] World wil] be ther Aad Olrrow the necklace lth h rdly a She looke at him with, 4N irritateg thought, 4nd doesn' €ven open slance, and Said, mpatiently - the jewe] Case when it ig returned « my phat, do you want me to pat Ithough She has been tol that He had not thought of that; he the Clas 4s broken and re. Stammereq. Paired, A man such ag Mme "Why, the Tess yoy 50 to the F Testier uld be Ore contheater In. It looks very Well, to Me." Cerned if the Jewels Were real and te stopped, distracted, Seeing his their clasp broken, pF another Wife Crying. Two Bveat tears de-. ': Scended slowly from the Corners of ng, when me. Loisel tries to er ey Oward + Corners of jo. Find a dup Cate of th lost neck Mouth. He Stuttereq ace, the Jeweler Whose Me is in Vhat' © Matter? What, th © jewel case Says that he sold ma er M. But, by Violent effort, She had con- = er estier onI the c quered her &Tief, ang a cal, © replied, with the necklace _ M voice, While she wi Cheeks. T the Jewels are not Teal. And finally, as the OCTOBER 1965 reader thinks through the story, he realizes that Mme. Loisel is the very kind of woman who would choose the false over the true, the cheap and imitative over the valuable and genuine. For she is herself a cheap imitation of what a genuine woman should be. So far as this month's lesson is concerned, the most important question to ask about the story is: How much does Mme. Loisel grow through the experience? Does she mature to an understanding of true values? Does she develop from shallowness to depth of character? Unfortunately, she does not. Experience can be a great character-builder, but for Mme. Loisel it is not. She hates the hard work she must do and becomes an embittered, coarse, unkempt woman, unhealthily dreaming of the life that might have been. There is dignity in hard work, and there is nobility in simple living. But Mme. Loisel finds neither. She finds only bitterness and resentment and selfpity, blaming Mme. Forestier for all that has happened. And so the story ends, with Mme. Loisel essentially as she was at the beginning—years older, but otherwise unchanged. She is still cheap and shallow, just like the jewels she wore with such vanity. A strong and significant contrast can be seen between the

[Literature — Growth Through Experience Bruce B. Clark]

shallowness of character and the false values of Mme. Loisel and the depth of character and genuine values of Mr. Gessler, the old German bootmaker in Galsworthy's story "Quality," on pp. 124-131 of the text, immediately following "The Necklace." Indeed, a comparative study of "Quality" and "The Necklace" 794 would make an excellent lesson for any teacher who prefers to review "Quality" rather than "The Bear." "THE BEAR" For the purposes of this lesson, a perhaps even more meaningful contrast can be seen between the lack of character growth in "The Necklace" and the profound character growth in "The Bear." In fact, the primary purpose of "The Bear" is to dramatize the maturation of a boy from boyhood to manhood, not just a physical growth but, more important, a character growth. As the story begins the boy is just a boy, limited in knowledge and even more limited in: understanding of life's values. Then come several years of rich experience in the wilderness as the boy is taught by his father and old Sam Fathers, the wisest wilderness man of them all, and by the wilderness itself. Most of the space of the story is given to a dramatization of these vivid incidents, as discussed fully in the text on pp. 192-196. But the central meaning of the story is saved for its end, after the action is over. If the story had stopped with the close of the action described in it, we would have a good story; but it becomes a truly great story only through the conversation between the boy and his father at the very end. The father reminds the boy that he didn't shoot the bear when he twice had a chance even though shooting it had for years been the great dream and goal of the boy's life. "Why?" asks the father. The boy doesn't quite know why, at least not yet—but LESSON DEPARTMENT € boy had What the Story is a] about Th Shot the ar he Id have boy had €ard the Words "cour. Killed the most Magnificent thing age," "fa rs ide," <p mility," In his life The bear had €come etc.; but they were Meaningles Ohima Symbol of the ma Jesty of to him Until ¢), Ough Perience he untame idernesgs It Teprehe came to know them. Hus, Sented al] that Was beautify] and with the wild ress as his ge ool, Powerfy] and Magnifice tly free and the bear and Sam RF thers as 0 destroy it Would destro is teachers th Vv through e dream f his life oreover, experience, Nd thro h ditat € didn't nee to kill it € had Ing on his e berience Proved his urage to Meet it on €qual term What finally, Is th is about be 48e and fe does the boy see? W. € story al] OCTOBER 1965 short story, achieves its place as one of the greatest stories of the English language partly because of its magnificent prose style. Note such sentences as the two following from early in the story, describing the bear: It looked and towered in _ his dreams before he even saw the unaxed woods where it left its crooked print, shaggy, huge, red-eyed, not malevolent but just big—too big for the dogs which tried to bay it, for the horses which tried to ride it down, for the men and the bullets they fired into it, too big for the very country which was its constricting scope. He seemed to see it entire with a child's complete divination before he ever laid eyes on either—the doomed wilderness whose edges were being constantly and punily gnawed at by men with axes and plows who feared it because it was wilderness, men myriad and nameless even to one another in the land where the old bear had earned a name, through which ran not even a mortal animal but an anachronism, indomitable and invincible, out of an old dead time, a phantom, epitome and apotheosis of the old wild life at which the puny humans swarmed and hacked in a fury of abhorrence and fear, like pygmies about the ankles of a drowsing elephant: the old bear solitary, indomitable and _ alone, widowered, childless, and absolved of mortality—old Priam reft of his old wife and having outlived all his sons (text, page 193; copyright by William Faulkner; reprinted by permission from Random House, Inc.) This is symphonic prose in its most brilliant luxury. But the greatness of the story goes far beyond its prose style. It has a greatness in meaning fully matching its triumph in language. THOUGHTS AND QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What are the fundamental differences between the boy in "The Bear" and Mme. Loisel that make him grow through experience but cause her to remain essentially unchanged? 2. A different woman in Mme. Loisel's situation might have become strong and admirable in character through Mme. Loisel's experience. Discuss, pointing out the qualities of personality and attitude that would make _ character growth probable. 3. Invite class members to cite experiences in their own lives that, although difficult at the time, helped to build character as they are looked back upon in later years. 4. To what extent is it true that abstract concepts such as freedom, love, honor, and beauty become meaningful only when experience makes them meaningful? 5. To what extent can we grow in our understanding and in character-strength through the experiences of others—including those in literature—as well as through our own experiences?

© 26 sun-splashed days in Southern Hemisphere Summer! © Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Montevideo, Buenos Aires, Santiago, Lima and other fabulous places! @ See ancient and modern South America in one breath-taking sweep! BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Reiief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2. B55 Zone (6.9y 2 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 ay PESERET PPEws PRESS NEW AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN PAYS *100 WEEKLY even for life to Non-drinkers and Non-Smokers! At last—a new kind of 'hospitalization plan for you thousands who realize drinking and smoking are harmful. Rates are fantastically low because "poor risk" drinkers and smokers are excluded. Since your health is superior there is no age limit, no physical examination, no waiting period. Only you can cancel your policy. No salesman will ever call. Starting the first day you enter any hospital, you will be paid $14.28 a day. You do not smoke or drink— so why pay premiums for those who do? Every day in your newspaper you see more evidence that drinking and smoking shorten eee They're now one of America's leading ealth problems — a prime cause of the high premium policies charge. Our rates are based on your superior health, as a non-drinker and non-smoker. The new American Temperance Hospitalization Plan tan offer you unbelievably low rates because we do not accept drinkers and smokers, who cause high rates. Rates most hospitalization READ YOUR AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS 1. You receive $100 cash weekly — TAX FREE—even for life, rom the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any wspital in the world. We pay in addition to any other nsurance you carry. We send you our payments Air Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. I. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, cept pregnancy, any act of war or military service, pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization 'aused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything Ise you're fully protected—at amazingly low rates' 3. Other benefits for loss within 90 days of accident 4s described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for acciental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one sot, or sight of one eye. Or $6000 cash for loss of oth eves, both hands. Or both feet. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pay Monthly Pay Yearly 19:59 oops $38 $38 Sit $59 I $59 70.100 evs ad $79 ond ender pers $2 $28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! Also, your premiums can never be because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite 'close comparison with any other plan. Raised pare rates. See what you save. Actually, no other is like ours. But comMONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully Ask your min- «ster, lawyer and doctor to examine it. Be sure at provides exactly what we say it does Thentf for any reason at all you are not 1004, satisfied, just mail your policy back to us within 30 days and we will immediately refund your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars you risk nothing TEAR OUT AND MAIL TODAY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS at. Ror a AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY Name (PLEASE PRINT). Street or RO Z. City County State Zip Age Cte «oof Birth Month Day Year Occupat Height Weight Beneficiary Relationship t also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below NAME AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY BIRTH DATE 1. 2 3 4 To To the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and all members listed above in good health and free from any physical impairment, of disease? Yes[) Nof} To the best of your knowledge, have you of any member above listed had medical advice of treatment, of have you of they been advised to have a surgical operation in the tast five years? Yes () No) If so, please give detarts stating person affected, cause, Gate, name and address of attending physician, and whether fully recovered ~ Weither I mor any person listed above uses tobacco or alcoholic beverages, and 1 hereby apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions originating prior to its effective date, and that the policy is issued solely and entirety in telence upon the written answers to the above questions Oste:_ Signea X Mail this application with AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., your frst premium to BOX 131, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS AT iat R. S. 3484 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT Cc OM Pany cc A NGTON BLVD. OGD N ST, ORANGE. CALIFORNIA € most Magnificent full color and black 4nd white of Numerous hurch agencies artists! Church Of Jesus Christof Latter-day ACe age Operations! Dall L. Green! DESERET BOOK COMPA 4st South Temple Salt Lake City Utah Gentlemen Enclosed Please find Check money Order - I have an account, Please Charge; Amount $ - (Please include Sales tax) for (number COpies) of MEET THE MORMONs. --.. State. Zip (ah please add 3+, +) Sales tay « Sales tax When ordering through C alifornig Store Residents of California, Please add 4: