MORMONISM.

	Mormonism, so called, is truly THE prob-
lem of the nineteenth century; the sphinx
of modern times! Even to the initiated it
is a marvel, and a wonder; a daily problem
for their study and solution; they measure
the future by the past, and by that mode
their faith is renewed and fed, and one of
their daily testimonies is that all who live
to its principles are fitted for the day, and
the hour, and the place to which they may
be called, realizing for themselves the Scrip-
ture, "As thy day, thy strength shall be."
Yes, indeed, those who are determined to
live their religion know that Hand leads
and guides them through every intricate
pathway, carries them over the "deep wa-
ters" in a marvellous way, so that only by a
look back can they realize the mighty help
they have had—the unseen, the unsleeping
influence that has been around them in the
hour of need—and in the joy and gratitude
of their hearts, they can only exclaim with
one of old, "My Lord, and my God!" Trials,
struggles every Saint must have, for this is
the Lord's school, and we must have lessons
that we may come out fitted for niches in
the Temple of our God in the grand here-
after! Without trials and the experience
acquired by them, life is but a child's coral
and tells the bitter and the sweet must be
blended to complete the character of a Lat-
ter-day Saint. I ever desire for my friend
and associate one who has graduated in the
school of trial and adversity, for in such I
find matter for mind, and mind for matter.
Gold without alloy will not stand the wear


and tear of every day life—I own to liking
a little ALLOY—for it too highly refined, or
too perfect they are unfit for daily use; the
law of our planet is imperfection, combined
with all that is grand, great and beautiful,
bearing on every part of it the impress of
Deity; and the word “good” stamped upon
it as positive, by the voice and signet ring
of the Almighty. We have the power to
choose the good and reject the evil; we
stand in the dignity of a free and responsi-
ble being, and if we possess wisdom, we
shall know how to choose, and that which
will be for our good.
Freedom increases responsibility in a
mighty ratio, and we shall need cultivation,
understanding and wisdom, that we may
use the God-given gift as becometh candi-
dates for celestial worlds. Where much is
given much is required—this is simply
cause and effect, which blended is an eter-
nal principle.
	A quarter of a century has passed since I
first embraced the Latter-day work, and it
has ever filled my soul; the hard part is to
live up to what I profess and love. The
world think we are a low, degraded people;
how egregious is their mistake! It takes a
high and noble being, generous, unselfish,
enduring, self-sacrificing, to make a Latter-
day Saint; and our principles are where
perfection comes in, for they are of God,
and no more need be said. The voice of
the worldling is as dust on the balance—
they know nothing of us, and it is very few
that will be told. If they would investi-
gate, there are many candid souls that
would at any rate put their finger on their
lip, and be silent, if nothing more.
			(To be continued.)


For the EXPONENT.
