THE GRAVE OF GRAY, THE POET.—The
ride of five miles from Windsor to Stoke
Pogis is lovely, through shaded English
lanes and sweet-smelling hedgerows and
rural gardens. We did not go to the vil-
lage, for that was not our objective point; it
was at the entrance to the churchyard we
stopped—the church-yard that contains the
mortal remains of Thomas Gray, the one
which inspired his immortal "elegy," writ-
ten in sight of it, if not in it. Beside the
slab which marks the last resting-place of
the poet is one which covers the remains
of his mother, and it is somewhat singular
that, while the latter is overrun with ivy,
that of the poet is quite bare; perhaps van-
dals have taken it away. It is a spot where
a poet, one would think, might find rest—so
sweet, so quiet, so peaceful, the religious
little church, like a stone sentinel, keeping
guard, and holding it in perfect security.
How full of heart-memories this wonderful
England is! Whichever way you turn you
seem to be met by the ghosts of buried
friends, to whom you stretch out your arms
and plead for that closer companionship—
that dear relationship which, crossing the
sea, it seemed, should have yielded you.—
Jennie June.


FOOD AND SUNSHINE.—The want of prop-
er food and the sunshine is the cause of
three-fourths of the nervous ailments of
women. Over work is not the cause. Work
and hard work too, is the lot of every wo-
man who has a right to look upon her life
with complacence, and she would be pre-
pared for it by nature’s kindly efficiency, if
food, sunlight and exercise were duly al-
lowed their effect. If women gave their
bodies the same care that they give their
dress, they would come up to the standard
of their work. They ought to be nearly as
strong as men—with a finer and more sup-
ple strength, it is true; but the difference
should not be the immense disparagement
to women that it is. What they want is
muscle, not fat, on their meagre limbs,
which ought to be slender, graceful, arid
full of nerve as those of an Arab courser.
Perhaps in finding roundness of figure and
clearness of complexion they find strength,
and who shall say these things do not lie to-
gether. Sunshine and air ripen and fresh-
en the cheeks of women as they do fruits
in orchards. If Leonetta will, like English
women, spend four or five hours a day in
the open air, in such exercise as she can
bear, she will find her spirits and color re-
vive as brightly as she can wish.


A SWEETHEART is called a turtle-dove,
so a coquette must be a mock-turtle-dove.
	NEVER court the favor of the rich by
flattering either their vanities or their
vices.


