	THE BOY THAT DESERVED THE PRIZE.

	Last Twenty-fourth of July, after the
cIose of the Sabbath School Jubilee at the
Tabernacle, the people of the Twentieth
Ward had an old-fashioned entertainment
at their school house. Here, prizes were
distributed, among the young folks under
certain ages, for superiority in different ac-
complishments. Among other things of
interest, one of the most pleasing items was
that a young gentleman obtained a hand-
some prize for the best loaf of bread. This
little point is not so important in itself as
were the circumstances which led to it.
After being occupied with outdoor work for
a portion of the day, our young gentleman
heard his sister remark that she must make
and bake two batches of bread—one for the
amily and one to take to the schoolhouse.


[Column 1]

The kind-hearted brother knew that their
mother was too feeble to help with the
work, and that sometimes his sister had
more to do than she could well attend to.
He knew, too, that he could make good
bread, thanks to his sensible mother. So
he offered to make the bread for home use,
while his sister should make the other.
	Although it is always commendable to
take great care in things of so much im-
portance as bread making, it sometimes oc-
curs that a little extra painstaking proves a
little too much, and renders the work not
quite so satisfactory in the end. And so it
proved with the loaves in question. The
bread which the boy made and attended to
the baking of, came out of the oven a little
better than his sister's. And by the moth-
er's suggestion, the better loaf was taken
to the schoolhouse, where, among a goodly
number of fresh, light loaves, it fairly won
the first prize.
	Will not all my young gentlemen friends
agree with me, that the thoughtful, practi-
cal boy of whom I have been writing, de-
served a prize? I know the ladies will.
		WHY HE DID NOT MARRY HER. 
	We all know the story of the young man,
who, upon visiting his lady-love, found her
in the parlor, fashionably attired, playing
and singing, "Who will care for mother
now!"  And how, at the same time he acci-
dentally discovered that dear mother was
down in the kitchen, sweltering over the
cook stove, caring for herself and also the
rest of the family. And how, for this
cause, he put away all tender thoughts of
the young lady, determining to marry one
of a more practically consistent nature.
But I can tell a better story than the fore-
going. I say better, because my story is
possessed of as good a moral, with a more
pleasant termination.
		"LET ME DO IT, MOTHER."
	A young man had declared love to a
lady and asked her to be his wife. She
hesitated, and he allowed her her own time
to consider the matter, before giving a de-
cided answer. One evening, while yet her
mind was unsettled, she had occasion to
call upon an aged relative, who resided in
the family of which our hero was a mem-
ber. As she approached the door, a sudden
impulse caused her to pause. He might be
at home, she thought, and she might en-
counter him. And seeing her there, he
would probably imagine she called on pur-
pose to see him. She was sure she did not
care much for him, and these thoughts ren-
dered her quite uneasy. While she stood
upon the doorstep thus meditating, she
heard the oven door of the cook stove open,
then the rustle of a paper, as if it were
thrown upon the table; then a firm, light
step and the voice of her admirer saying in
a gentle way, "Let me do it, mother" Then
she knocked, and was admitted just in time
to see the gentleman taking some pies from
the oven, instead of continuing his reading
while his tired mother waited upon herself.
This little circumstance aided the young
lady in concluding what answer to make to
the all-important question. She soon after-
wards married the same gentleman, who, I
am informed, makes an excellent husband
and father.
		GOOD CITIZENS.
	Far be it for me to advocate the practice
of boys being kept choring about the house,
until they have no ability nor disposition to
follow in other pursuits, more common to
the masculine portion of society; or of

[Column 2]

husbands staying at home to mind the ba-
bies, while their wives are out lecturing,
or entertaining the public in some other
way.
	But as I have remarked before, let the
boys learn enough about household duties,
that under any circumstances they may not
feel themselves ignoramuses in those prac-
tical arts. By having some understanding
of woman's work, a man can better appre-
ciate her and it. He will contrive more
conveniences for her in her home sphere, if
he is brought to realize their advantages.
Good sons, husbands and fathers are sure
to be good citizens. The man who is gen-
erous, obliging and helpful about home, will
make a better Statesman, General or Presi-
dent than the one who is not.
	Much is said about training our girls to
become good wives and mothers; let us
also reflect and talk about training our boys
to become good husbands and fathers. Let
us remember that the mother may will
what kind of a man her boy shall make,
and have it so. True, the father's example
is either a great help or hindrance in the
rearing of children; but the mother's teach-
ing has the supremacy.
	LULA.


