		CORRESPONDENCE.

			ST. GEORGE, October, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I would like to tell you of our many good
and faithful sisters here in St. George. The
new organization of the Church has caused
many changes at this place. Our Relief
Societies are now in a most excellent condi-
tion for improvement; instead of one as
formerly, we now have four, one in each of
the four wards of our beautiful city, (to me
it is very beautiful.) Members of Socie-
ties of each of the wards, meet the first
Thursday in every month; they talk to each
other and have interesting meetings which
are growing better and more instructive
each time we meet; and I look forward to
the time when many will testify to the
blessing these meetings have been; certain-
ly our hearts are more united; we love each
other more than we ever did. While per-
forming our duties, or wherever we meet,
there is a thrill of pleasure experienced
that makes us feel we are meeting a Sister
and a friend. I have attributed this love in
our hearts in a great degree to our associa-
tions in our beautiful Temple, for every-
thing we do there is a "labor of love,", and
if we labor for love, love must be in our
hearts, and our spirits are genial, pliable
and full of kindness. On the 17th of Sep-
tember wa had a good time, a special meet-
ing of the sisters was called by our Presi-
dent J. T. D. McAllister. Mrs. M. I. Horne
met with us and gave us some valuable in-
struction, and we felt to bless her, and
thank God for the privilege of seeing her
and hearing her voice. "We are now wait-
ing for our books "The Women of Mormon-
dom" and hope the coming winter to en-
joy the reading of them in our meetings.
	We are expecting to see a great throng
come to the Temple to receive blessings for
themselves and for their dead this coming
season. I feel pleasure in saying that we as
a people in St. George, discard the foolish
fashions of the day and have set our faces
against them; and I am glad to think that
no extreme of fashions such as are worn by
the "beaumonde," are allowed to go into
the Temple, thanks to our beloved Presi-
dent who feels that Babylonish fashions
should not be admitted in so holy a place as
the Temple of God. We have a few among us
who love these things, and we do hope and 
pray that our sisters who come here will
leave their fashions at home; and if they
appreciate the privilege as I do they will
not mind traveling a few miles for the op-
portunity of receiving blessings in the
House of the Lord. I never did anything
that was so delightful to me as my daily
labors in the Temple. The peace of God is
there and all who go there can testify to
the same. The people here in Dixie have
had "hard times," and have felt isolated
and almost forgotten, but our Father has
given us a rich reward. When called to
come to the South in 1861, none of us im-
agined that our obedience to the call and
our faithfulness would be the means of
making us "saviors on Mount Zion." We
feel we are a blessed people, I have thank-
ed God for my home in St. George many
times; for the peace we have had here, the
freedom we have enjoyed in having no
fears of molestation from the enemies of
this Church. But to have a Temple to work
in, and be counted worthy of working
there, is of so much value to me, that I feel
I never can be thankful enough or do
enough to prove my gratitude to my Fath-
er in heaven for His goodness to me. I

[Column 2]
have no desire on earth but for good, and I
pray God to bless you in your faithful la-
bors as well as all the laborers in our Fath-
er's Kingdom.
							L. S. C.

