EXPONENT.

	Inasmuch as the women of Utah have
an organ through which they can speak
their feelings to each other and the world,
I feel it a duty incumbent on me to use
that channel to express my feelings to the
mothers and daughters of Zion, and bear a
testimony to those outside. I was born and
brought up in Salt Lake City, and am proud
to say also that I was born in the Celestial
Order of Marriage. I am quite young yet
in years, as well as in the knowledge of
the true Gospel, for I have not always
made my religion a subject of thought or
study; but thank God my eyes have at
last been opened to an understanding of the
privileges and blessings I enjoy in being
numbered among the Saints of these last
days. I know some of the feelings of my
young sisters. We are visited here by
many outsiders who scorn and ridicule
those who believe in and practice plural
marriage, and this has an affect, in a meas-
ure on the rising generation who are not
fairly established in principle; more because
of the pride of the world inherent in their
minds; but neither the unbelievers nor the
young sisters themselves appear to look for-
ward understandingly to the future or eter-
nal results of their acts in this life and the
reference they have to a hereafter.
	I have headed this article Celestial Mar-
riage and the opening of a new era, per-
haps it may be a deep subject for a young
woman to discuss, but I wish to say to all
who read this that I want Eternal Life, and
to go back to my heavenly Father and
Mother; can I obtain it by living up to the
principles revealed from heaven, principles
practiced by those who hold the keys of the
priesthood of God? Yes, I read in the book
of 'Doctrine and Covenants' that there are
three heavens, and no man or woman can
obtain the highest glory without keeping
the Celestial law of God, and the law of
the Patriarchial order of Marriage.
	Now my young sisters in Zion, would it 
not be better to obey this law and enjoy a

[Column 2]
Celestial glory than to reject it for any-
thing frivolous, and lose the opportunity of
exaltation? I know it would; what we sow
we will reap, if it be good seed, the fruit
will be of superior excellence, if sin and
evil, weeds thorns and thistles. God prom-
ised Abraham blessings which reached into
the endless ages of eternity, through the
principles of the Patriarchial Order of Mar-
riage. I am willing to abide this law be-
cause I want similar blessings. The Lord
says if we do not obey that law we cannot
partake the blessings of the new and ever-
lasting covenant. Congress says if we do
obey it, we shall be subject to their condem-
nation. Very well, we'll trust in God who
has said "fear not him who can only de-
stroy the body but fear him who can de-
stroy both soul and body; the foolish nation
may trust in Congress and we will see even-
tually which is the better part. The moves
Congress has been making seem to me to
have reference to John the Revelator's vis-
ion of "opening the seals." It is evident
to every faithful daughter in Zion, who has
the spirit of God, that great events are
about to transpire. Why was our beloved
and lamented leader, President Brigham
Young, moved upon to go to work and or-
ganize anew the Stakes of Zion? Because
of the events which await Zion and Baby-
lon.
	The revelations of God manifest to us all
who have the spirit of God in our hearts
that there is a great change at our doors; all
Israel feel it, earth and heaven and all the
powers of darkness feel it, and the wicked
are stirred up furiously against the Lord's 
anointed. The spirit of revelation is [-]e[-]t
here in St. George where the Holy Temple
has been ereeted; the spirits of the dead,
anxious and waiting, have been hovering
over those who preside and labor in that
holy sanctuary here, until Apostle Wood-
ruff, and others have been constrained by
the spirit of God, to officiate for their de-
parted friends, and those noble persons to
whom they have been directed by the
guidance and promptings of these heavenly
influences, in the sacred ordinances which
pertain to the house of the Lord. These
are powerful testimonies to those who re-
ceive them and clearly prove the manner in
which we become saviors upon Mt. Zion.
Not only are men favored with these great
and sacred blessings but women also are
saviors of women. There is no inequality
even in ministering for the dead. Woman
acts in her sphere as man in his. There-
fore is man not without the woman, nor the
woman without the man in the Lord. The
work of performing the ceremonies requires
as much labor and falls with as much digni-
ty upon woman as man. Therein is the
goodness of our Father to His daughters
made manifest. Holy women now minis-
ter in the Temple of God.
	The spirit of God is resting upon the peo-
ple.  Are not these events opening a new
era to us? Can our enemies hinder these
great and mighty events? They cannot.
Then arise! ye daughters of Zion, and mag-
nify your callings, and realize your bless-
ings, privileges and power before the Lord;
take hold and carry out the counsels of the
prophets and apostles, by magnifying your
positions as mothers and daughters of Zion.
	When you hear a man or woman, unbe-
liever or Mormon, ridicule Celestial Marriage
or any of the revelations of God, turn from
them, and let us feel and realize that we are
the true daughters of Zion. God is with us,
we should feel this in our hearts; Jesus has
died for us, can we do more?
	If by any act of ours, by obeying any
commandment or principle revealed to us

[Column 3]
we can be exalted in the Celestial kingdom
of God with our fathers, mothers, brothers,
sisters, husbands and children, receiving a
fulness of glory—then "let the heathen rage
and the people imagine vain things!” Let
the prophets, apostles and saints have faith
in God and trust in Him. Those who enter
into these holy covenants must trust in God
as did the Hebrews and the prophet Daniel;
and as God delivered them, so will he de-
liver His Anointed in the last days.
	That the God of heaven and the saints
may sustain the channel through which we
can speak, is the prayer of your young sis-
ter.							ESTHER.
	Oct. 10, 1877.


