BY MAY MAPLE.

	In thinking of the vast number of fallen
women that abound in nearly every city of
the world, and their miserable, miserable
lives, it must occur to a person that these
poor, degraded creatures who throng the
thoroughfares of the larger cities, were
once as pure, innocent and unsullied as the
babe which we see sleeping in its cradle;
and alas! Now how terrible, how great the
change! It is evident that they all have
had fathers, mothers, sisters and brothers,
perhaps have once been tenderly nurtured,
loved and cared for; and I never see one
pass on the street without thinking, "Whose
sister is she, I wonder; whose home has
been blighted by the encroachments of that
serpent in disguise—the betrayer of inno-
cence?" And then I think, Suppose my
sister was like this creature? It is thus that
I realize more fully, how deplorable to be an
outcast and forsaken! But there are a great
many persons who do not give the matter
sufficient thought; who do not bring it home
to themselves, or their own. They seem to
accept it as a matter of course. It does not
excite much pity or feeling, for the reason
that it is so common, so VERY common.
	And you may perhaps ask: "What has
caused the fall? What has transformed
these once innocent girls into what they are
now?" Numerous and different things.
Slowly, but none the less surely, they trav-
eled the road to ruin. They perhaps were
influenced by sophistries they could not
comprehend, and almost before they were
aware of it they had gone so far on the road
to ruin, they had not the heroism to retreat.
One cause of many girls being led astray is
vanity, or love of dress, of finery, some-
thing to adorn the person. At one time
women dressed with a view to comfort—
now with a view to display. Once they
married for love—now they enter the con-
nubial state to gain position, silk dresses,
diamonds, a carriage, and other etceteras,
which go to make up a fashionable "lady"
of to-day. And the passion for display and
love of dress has gone so far, that a really
good, honest young man, with a moderate
income, in one of our large cities, dare not

[Column 2]

take upon himself the responsibility of car
ing and providing for a family, for fear that
the partner of his joys and sorrows would
ruin him financially before the honeymoon
was over. If he cannot buy her as fine
dresses as her neighbors or relatives have,
in many instances dissatisfaction, (a very
unwelcome visitor) sits at the hearthstone
instead of content and happiness. This,
we say, is the present state of affairs gener-
ally, though there are, we are proud to ac-
knowledge, many honorable exceptions;
but they are too few and far between. The
love of flattery and vanity are the loopholes
by which the sophistries of the tempter
may enter. Thus, in some cases, woman's
vanity is the cause of woman's ruin; and
that woman who seeks the admiration of
men and the envy of others of her sex,
whether she be aware of it or not, lends a 
hand towards the ruin of her sisters, and
may be called to an account. The love of
dress and vanity once firmly planted in
woman's nature, and there is nothing,
scarcely, she will not sacrifice, and in many
instances all that is sacred, to obtain it.
This, I repeat, is the cause of many a girl's
ruin. 
	But there are other causes, and one pow-
erful one is the present existing state of so-
ciety. Money is the foundation, in fact the
whole structure of our BONTON circles;
brains are evidently at a discount; virtue,
honesty and uprightness are esteemed by
the majority as nothing, unless a person has
gold. And if a man is well supplied with
the necessary funds, society will admit him,
will often fawn upon him, even though he
may have obtained his wealth dishonestly,
and bears the reputation of gambler, liber-
tine and rogue. These vultures thus gain
access to the society of young and innocent
girls in fashionable circles, and the result is
that many are ruined and disgraced forever.
God speed the time when virtue will be
held in greater respect than money! Oh!
that the time were already here!  
	Another question: What would be your
feelings, girls, if you saw your brother in
the company of a woman whom you knew
to be disreputable? I need not ask you who
are pure-minded aad innocent; you would
be shocked, of course. Yet you allow men
in your company who are the destroyers,
the betrayers of innocence. You may not
know that they bear such characters; but
you should be chary as to whom you asso-
ciate with—you cannot be too careful; you
should wait until you know the character
of young men before you allow yourselves
to become acquainted with them, at least to
any extent, and if you should accidentally
ally be in the company of one whose char-
acter is tarnished do not allow yourself to
recognize him again under any circumstan-
ces. Were this rule generally observed,
there would be fewer girls ruined, and less
misery than there is now. Flirtations (es-
pecially street flirtations) are another very
fruitful source of ruin and disgrace. I have
no doubt but that many, if not the major-
ity, of girls who indulge in such little
amusements are entirely innocent of any
wrong—pure themselves, they as a natural
consequence, imagine all others to be the
same. Would it were so! But it is not,
and the many evil-minded men on the look
out for victims, in this manner find what
they seek, and through this channel open
an avenue to accomplish their wicked de-
signs.
	It is a simple thing at first; a coquettish
glance, a wave of the fan, a flirt of the
handkerchief, an uplifted hat in recognition
—simply that and nothing more; but, poor
human moth, it has led you to your doom.


An acquaintance thus begun progresses rap-
idly and ends disastrously. Words follow
glances, sighs follow words, then clandes-
tine meetings until there comes a meeting
from which can be dated a wrecked life and
a lost soul. And, oh! how many lecherous
scoundrels, panderers to vice, worse than
wolves in sheep's clothing, there are that
commence their advances through street
flirtations!"
	I would also remind my readers that:

			"The devil's in the moon
		For mischief. Methinks that they
		Who called her chaste, too soon
		Began their nomenclature. There is not a day,
		The longest, not the twenty-first of June,
		Sees not half the wicked business in its way
		As does three single hours of moonshine smile,
		But yet she looks so modest all the while."

	I will close now, having given a few rea-
sons why girls fall; but I may again refer
to the subject, if the editor of the EXPO-
NENT will let me intrude upon her space.


