CONTINUED.

	Elder Wilford Woodruff: "I feel willing
to answer to the call of the sisters to make
a few remarks on this occasion, for it is a
subject that I feel greatly interested in, be-
cause I feel that it will have a good result.
The Relief Societies have had their growth,
and the Mutual Improvement Associations
have the same experience before them, and
I am satisfied that a great deal of good will
result from these Associations; every per-
son has an influence either for good or evil.
The Relief Societies were organized by Jo-
seph Smith, and a great deal of responsibil-
ity rests upon them. They should include
every mother in Israel. The Young La-
dies Improvement Association should in-
clude every young lady in Israel, and the
Young Men's Improvement Associations
should include every young man in Israel.
There are responsibilities resting upon the
sisters in many things, that it would be im-

[Column 2]

possible for men to accomplish. I was very
much pleased with a few remarks of Sister
Zina's, and I feel to back up the sentiments
she has expressed in regard to dress; the
sister that has got independence of mind
enough to walk these streets in a plain,
modest dress, has got something to be proud
of and certainly the sisters can have some
influence in regard to fashions, and I hope
these improvement associations will have a
great influence. We are not always going
to be supplied by Babylon for Babylon is go-
ing to fall. These associations all through
the northern and southern settlements are
instituting straw-braiding, hat-making, and
many other industries that are very com-
mendable The young have got to take our
places for the old are passing away, and I
pray God to bless every effort for good.
We are going to have a famine, and if I
had half a million of dollars I would buy
up all the wheat I could with it, and store
it away. Elder Woodruff then related his
experience at St. George in effecting a re-
formation among the young. The young
ladies should not have their minds full of
novels and fashions but should begin to feel
the importance of better things. There is
a great work resting upon us temporally
and spiritually. There are millions of dol-
lars in the air that can be brought forth in
silk, and we can make not only what we
want to wear but could export a great deal,
and the streets and spare land should all be
full of mulberry trees. The heavens are
full of inspiration and they are pouring it
out upon the saints. President Young liv-
ed to see a Temple dedicated to God and
he administered in it. He selected the
spot for other temples and set everything
in order in the church. Let us help build
these temples for there are thousands of
people that can not be liberated nntil some
one does the work for them. We cannot
afford to lose our salvation for the things of
this world, and whatever you can do in
these associations will be credited to you
and you will receive the reward. I feel to
say God bless you, and God bless these sis-
ters that are visiting you for they are in-
deed mothers in Israel."
	Mrs. P. Woodruff: I am pleased to see
you gathered together as you are for a good
purpose, and I feel to say to you be diligent,
be faithful, and strive to help, if it is only
in a little degree, towards building the tem-
ples, and may the teachings that we have
received to-day sink deep into your hearts
and do you good. God bless you, Amen.
	Mrs. Zina Williams. I feel that your lit-
tle association here is in a very flourishing
condition, and is doing much good. When
I see the young ladies that attend these as-
sociations and those who do not it reminds
me of going into an orchard; we find some
trees that are filled with verdure, and ap-
pear beautiful to the eye, but when we
come to examine them, there is no fruit on
them, but those who attend these meetings
are like those trees which are filled with
fruit. I pray God to bless us that we may
be bright and shining lights in the kingdom
of heaven.
	Mrs. E. Thomas: I know that this is the
church and kingdom of God, and I know
that the spirit of God is here to-day, and I
feel that your association has improved
very much since its organization, I love
the associations of the young and I ask
God to bless this association and all organi-
zations that are trying to do. good. 
	Mrs. W. East: We cannot be too thank-
ful for the principles of the Gospel, among
which plural marriage is one of the most
glorious. The God that we serve is great
and mighty, and is able to build up or

[Column 3]

throw down. God sees and knows all
things and will reward us according to our
work. May God add his blessing is my
prayer.
	Mrs. Martha Young: In regard to the
fashions, I know that it is the mind and
will of God that we should dress plainly,
and I hope the young ladies will not follow
the fashions of the world. It is necessary
that we should lay up every cent that we
can for building temples, and do all we can
in this kingdom for it is all for our benefit
both here and hereaftee.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney exhorted the sisters to
do all in their power towards the silk busi-
ness and said: "Joseph Smith did a great
work, Brigham Young did a greater for he
had more time and assistance, and the
Twelve will do a still greater work, for the
snow ball gathers strength as it rolls. She
also made other excellent remarks on the
Church Library and other subjects of inter-
est.
	Miss E. R. Snow announced a change in
the management of the Woman's Store on
account of its growth, and stated that it
was not "going under" as some had
thought, but was doing well.
	Elder Joseph Taylor then expressed his
pleasure in meeting with the sisters and
hearing their remarks, and gave some very
excellent instruction in regard to home
manufacture and the duties of women, and
commended the sisters in the silk business,
and in storing up grain.
	Bishop Joseph Warburton endorsed all
that had been said. Made a few remarks
in regard to the temple and prayed God to
bless us.
	President Mrs. Sarah Graham then made
a few closing remarks, after which the
meeting was adjourned.
	AMY ADAMS, Secretary.


