	THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY.—For all
kinds of home-made socks and stockings, call
at Mrs. H. E. Strickland's. opposite 13th Ward
Meat Market, on Second South Street. All
orders filled promptly. Mrs. Strickland also
carries on dress-making in the same establish-
ment.
	AS ANOTHER tribute to the memory of our
late President, Brigham Young, some of our
citizens have succeeded in getting up a bust
of President Young in stone work, which is
certainly correct in feature, though at first
sight does not strike you as forcibly as after a 
closer observation. The bust is an enterprise
of Messrs. W. Fuller & Co., and we understand
the intention of the company is to thoroughly
canvass the Territory.
	DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON has returned to
this city, and located here for the purpose of
practising her profession. She now offers her
services as physician, surgeon and accoucheur,
to the ladies of Salt Lake City and vicinity,
and begs to assure those who may favor her
with their patronage, that having successfully
practised for the last fifteen years, and having
had the benefit of experience in Medical Insti-
tutions in Paris and London, feels herself
thoroughly qualified to benefit her sisters in
Zion. Mrs. Ferguson is also a teacher of music
and languages.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the interest the sisters feel in the
various settlements of Utah Territory, in the
home missionary work of some of the mothers
in Israel, we thought a few items of our recent
visit to Bear Lake Valley would not be un-


interesting to the many readers of our woman's
paper. We left Salt Lake City August 16, on
the Utah Central, bound for Paris, by way of
the Utah Northern from Ogden. There had
been a very severe storm north, that had in-
jured the Northern road so badly that we were
very long upon the way. The brethren had to
work almost constantly to make the road pass-
able for the train. We staid in Logan two
days, and spent the time with the Societies,
and in visiting the sick. We visited Sister
Benson, who was very ill at that time and has
since died. She seemed very much pleased to
see us, and we were glad to have the opportu-
nity of calling on her in her last illness.
	From Logan we went on to Franklin, arriving
there at one o'clock at night. Elder George
Spencer met us there and took us over to Paris.
	There we were favored by being present at
the re-organization of that Stake of Zion, that
being the last county in the Territory to be at-
tended to, completing the re-organization of
the entire Territory. There were present of
the Quorum of the Twelve, Elders John Taylor,
Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Albert
Carrington, also Charles C. Rich of that vi-
cinity. There was much good instruction giv-
en, and the Spirit of God rested upon all who
spoke. President Budge made some inquiries
in regard to our visit there, and we told him
our time was at the disposal of the sisters, and,
accordingly, previous to the meeting being dis-
missed, he gave out the following appoint-
ments: On Tuesday we were to hold a general
meeting with the Relief and Retrenchment
Societies at Bloomington, Wednesday at St.
Charles, Thursday at Paris, and Friday at
Montpelier. We filled all these appointments
except the last. On Wednesday the telegram
reached us of the President's death and on
Friday morning we started for home to reach
here in time for the funeral.
	At Bloomington the Bishop and other breth-
ren were present, and manifested an excellent
feeling in aiding and encouraging the sisters.
The meeting was presided over by Mrs. Green-
halch, president of the Relief Society. The
Society seemed in a prosperous condition con-
sidering the many disadvantages under which 
the people labor in isolated settlements. At
St. Charles our meeting was also well attended,
some of the brethren being present and speak-
ing words of encouragement. Mrs. Laker,
President of the Relief Society, took charge of
the meeting, and the sisters seemed earnest
and anxious in the work in which we have en-
listed. At Paris Mrs. Julia Lindsay presided
at the meeting, which was also a general one,
and a rather solemn one, as we had heard of
the death of our beloved President and Pro-
phet. The brethren had already left for Salt
Lake City.
	Everywhere, whether in public speaking or
private conversation, we talked of the Home
Industries, especially the Silk-culture, and
also the storing of grain. We encouraged the
sisters to persevere and carry out their organ-
izations according to counsel given from time
to time.
		Respectfully, your sisters, &c.,
						PHEBE WOODRUFF,
