REPORTED BY JAMES TAYLOR.

	I expected to attend a meeting of the Relief
Societies of this Stake of Zion to hear reports,
and comments from the Presidency, the Secre-
taries, and from those that they would call
upon to speak. I learn from the President
that the calculation was to invite the brethren
to come here and talk to them, instead of their
talking to us, and to give them instructions,
point out their duties, and direct them with
regard to their future course of life. This we
are willing to do on conditions. Were I to
ask you if you are willing to comply with those
conditions, I have no doubt but what you
would at once answer me in the affirmative,
and believe that you would carry out the de-
claration of your own voices, for this would be
your mind, The question is, will you carry
out our instructions? We leave each and every
one to determine that by their future lives.
We hope that the people will hearken, and by
their acts respond to our requests.
	The people called Latter-day Saints say that
they wish to know and understand how to or-
der their lives before Him whom we serve and
acknowledge as our Father and our God. If I
were to give you my own feelings with regard
to instructions, many of you would perhaps
consider it egotism; still, I take the liberty of
saying to these my sisters, if the counsel and
instruction that your unworthy servant has
given to the inhabitants of the earth had been
obeyed and carried out, I have taught them
enough to have saved the nations of the earth,
and to have made every one of them to be
Latter-day Saints.
	We are professedly Saints. What is the dif-
ference between a Saint of God and an angel
of God? One is clothed upon with mortality,
the other has passed through mortality,
the other has passed through mortality and
has received the celestial glory of our Heavenly
Father, and is free from the contaminating in-
fluences of sin that we have to contend with.
This is the difference. We ask the question,
can mortal beings live so that they are worthy
of the society of angels? I can answer the
question for myself—I  believe that they can;
I am sure that they can. But in doing this,

[Column 2]

they must subdue the sin that is within them-
selves, correct every influence that arises with-
in their own hearts that is opposed to the sanc-
tifying influences of the grace of God, and
purify themselves by their faith and by their
conduct so that they are worthy. Then they
are prepared for the society of angels. To be
Saints indeed, requires every wrong influence
that is within them, as individuals, to be sub-
dued, until every evil desire is eradicated, and
every feeling of their hearts is brought into
entire subjection to the will of Christ. Now
you all believe this just as much as I do.
	The first thing I am going to introduce to
my sisters is the condition of this community.
Since I have come into this place I understand
that you have a great deal of sickness here.
"It is very warm weather," one says. "A
great deal of sickness," says another. I want
to say to you that warm weather is very healthy
weather. And I can say still further, with re-
gard to our climate, a dry climate is a healthy
climate, much more so than where a damp mi-
asma arises from swamps and decayed mate-
rials, which is so frequently the case in low
lands, especially in the Mississippi Valley, but
not so on this western slope. Now I want you
to understand what I am talking to you—this
weather is beautiful weather to enjoy health.
	(To be continued.)


[For the EXPONENT.
COMMON SENSE TALK WITH THE
