	GIRLS, KEEP GOOD COMPANY.

	Girls make it a point of your every day life
to choose your companions.
	It matters not how poor and uneducated you
may be, if you will, you may always be choice
of your associates. The Scriptures tell us to
"shun the very appearance of evil." Not that
to appear good, or true, or innocent is to make
one so, yet where persons are not known they
are, certainly, very generally judged by those
with whom they are in the habit of associat-
ing. Sometimes innocent persons are shun-
ned, and even condemned, through evil asso-
ciations. Really innocent persons have fre-
quently been in this way misrepresented and
maligned, and having gained through this
means a bad reputation, have felt respect was no
longer worth struggling for, and perhaps, be-
ing of a weak and vacillating nature, have
succumbed to the calumny heaped upon them,
and taken the downward course until it was
too late to retract.
	Girls, if you would have an unsullied name;
an irreproachable life, beware of chance ac-
quaintances. Better, far better, to be slow in
making friends, than to be too free to accept
proffers of confidence from those whose char-
acters are to you unknown.
	Be sure and confide in your mother; you will
never have cause to regret it. Take no heed


of your young friends who laugh at yonr prud-
ish ideas of propriety. Extremes are certainly
to be avoided in most instances, but in matters
of this nature you can scarcely be too precise.
You must be independent enough to ward oft
any little sarcasms from those who sneer about
mama's apron-strings, etc. Remember, were
any misteps to plunge you into difficulty
these false friends would be the last to assist
you in retracing your way; and perchance be
among the first to reproach you with wither-
ing sneers and humiliation.
	It is the duty of every young lady, a most
sacred duty, to guard her good name, to let
her deportment and her conversation be strict-
ly modest and decorous. Never let it be said,
as we frequently hear it remarked, "She is
good-hearted, generous and kind, but rough
and coarse in her manner and conversation."
There is no excuse for such conduct in the
young ladies of Utah, for the Associations
formed for mutual improvement in all things
pertaining to the welfare and development of
their hearts, minds and manners, as well as
other institutions, Schools, Sabbath Schoo[-]s
and Literary Societies, and also the associa-
tion with good and true women as well as
men, not only teach but guide them if they
will heed these things, in the path of duty
and principle. And it is almost invariably the
case that those who are willing to be obedient
to parents and instructors of youth, and espe-
cially if they are respectful to the aged, make
noble women, patterns in society, exemplary,
modest, and if not polished and graceful, are at
least courteous in manner, whole-souled, gen-
uine and trustworthy in all the social relations
of life.
								THYRA.
	Oct. 25, 1877.


