THE QUESTION OF THE TIME.

	This is the season when the sisters should be
all of them, most earnest and energetic in their
calling in Relief Societies and all such organ-
izations as compose and make up the work
done by women here at home. It is now late
enough to prepare for winter, and all those
whose hearts overflow with kind and benevo-
lent feelings, should remember the cold
weather is coming, when the poor and sick re-
quire much more attention than when the
pleasant sunshine warms them and gives them
fresh life and activity; they need more cloth-
ing; they need fires to warm them; they need
many little comforts that in summer time they
can do without.
	This is legitimate work of Bishops and Re-
lief Societies. (We would ask the brethren to
excuse us for mentioning Bishops, but the
work of benevolence in these matters is so
united between the two, that it is almost im-
possible to avoid mentioning Bishops in that
connection.) There are no poor houses in
Utah and we do not want any. The regularity
of the institutions, on all these matters, does
away with the necessity of any place of that
character.
	In the world it is different; and there are
very many persons in the United States (which
has a Constitution that surpasses all others
in its liberality and in most particulars, were
it carried out according to its genius and spirit)
who live for years in constant dread of some
incidental circumstance or misfortune over-
taking them, and they will eventually be
obliged to go to the POOR HOUSE. Such is not
the case with the Latter-day Saints. God in
His Infinite Wisdom has provided a better
system of government for His chosen people.
	The Lord has blest the Saints in the valleys
of the mountains with the good things of this
life beyond their most sanguine anticipations.
It is almost incredible how much has been
done, and how adverse have been the circum-
stances for such great achievements. What
other people, with so few facilities, would have
persevered under the accumulation of difficul-
ties the Saints have encountered in building
up Utah Territory. The one great enterprise
of emigrating thousands of people from for-
eign countries, year by year, is a most striking
specimen of the noble characteristics of the
Mormon people. And allow us here to observe,
that this will yet be considered as worthy of
being chronicled in the annals of the nation.
These same foreigners, many of them unedu-
cated, are nevertheless shrewd and practical;
they have bone and sinew, and they not only
help to strengthen and enlarge the borders of
the land of Zion, but the United States itself
becomes more powerful, not only in the num-
ber of its inhabitants, but from the resources

[Column 2]

brought to bear through their labors, upon the
revenue of the country.
	This work of emigration brings with it cer-
tain duties and responsibilities for women as
well as men: It falls chiefly upon Bishops
and officers of Relief Societies. They must
attend to the poor and the sick. Thus are wo-
men doing their part of the work of redeeming
the nations temporally, and assisting in the
gathering of Zion. This brings forcibly home
the truth of the remark, that it is easier to be a
missionary abroad than a home missionary.
To devise labor and initiate men and women
into the customs of a new country is not a de-
sirable thing. Yet this must be done, and wo-
men must take their share of this home mis-
sion. And it seems clearer every day that the
mission of storing grain should be given to
the women of Zion.
	It is only one of the labors which help to
make up the sum total of the benevolent work
which pertains to Relief Societies. Bread is
the staff of life, and if there was always an
abundance of other things, we think Mormon
women would scarcely be so unsophisticated as
one of the Queens of France, who, when she
was told her subjects wanted bread, asked her
minister why he did not give them cake.
	The heart or soul enlarges through its
sympathies. The more benevolent people are
the more still they desire to be; it is one of
those things that brings its own reward in
the blessings received as well as imparted.
The Savior said, "In blessing ye are blessed:"
and "Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of
these my children, ye have done it unto me."
	Charity towards all God's suffering creatures
is commendable. And although it is some-
times said there is too much given in charity,
yet it is not possible always to judge persons
correctly, because there are, throughout the
world, many different standards of goodness,
and how can one determine another's demer-
its, not having known if there were extenuat-
ing circnmstances. It is necessary all should
be charitable: and it were better to be duped
and deceived many times, than to turn a deaf
ear to the cries of one person really needy.


[For the EXPONENT.
