SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

	ARTICLE I. The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure to all citizens of prop-
er age, without distinction of sex the right
to vote, and with this end in view, to pro-
cure and distribute tracts, documents and 
other printed matter; to prepare and circu-
late petitions to the Legislature and to Con-
gress; to employ lecturers and agents; hold
meetings, and take any other measures that 
may be deemed proper by the Association.
	ARTICLE II. There shall be at least one
stated public meeting each month.
	ARTICLE III. The officers shall be a Pres-
ident, Secretary, and Treasurer, who shall
perform the duties usually assigned to such
offices. They shall report monthly the du-
ties performed by them.
	ARTICLE IV. Any business coming be-
fore the Association requiring action, shall
be referred to a special committee.
	All committees shall be composed of the
mover, with the right on the part of the
mover to name the remainder of the com-
mittee, subject to the action of the Asso-
ciation.
	ARTICLE V. The President and Secretary
at the written request of any five members
of the Association, shall call special meet-
ings, but if the Association at such meet-
ings shall consider the reason for holding
them insufficient, the callers shall be respon-
sible for the expenses.
	ARTICLE VI. Any person may become a 
member of the Association by assenting to
the above and contributing annually to the
funds.
	ARTICLE VII. This Constitution may be
amended at any meeting by a vote of two-
thirds of the members present, provided
that one month's notice of the proposed
change has been given.
	The regular meetings are held at present
at the President's E. M. Davis, Walnut
Place, 205, Philadelphia, on the third
Wednesday of each month at 3 P. M.
	We commend the simplicity of our or-
ganization. If you can find four others to
join you, form an association. Send us the
name you adopt that we may co-operate
with you, and send you our publications.
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY lectured in Toledo,
September 6, on "Working Men and their
Strikes." She proceeded directly to Colora-
do, and give the remainder of the month of
September to the woman suffrage campaign
in that State. Miss Anthony went without
money and without price, wholly at her
own expense, with the exception of a small
contribution by two excellent friends, who,
hearing that she was going, sent her, one
five dollars and the other, ten. She had
a most fatiguing journey, speaking eve-
ry night, with the exception of three,
from September 11 to the 30th.
	THE CREMATED remains of Dr. Winslow,
who lately died at Salt Lake, have been re-
ceived and interred at Mt. Aubnrn, accord-
ing to his last will and testament.—"The
Watchman."


