LETTER I.

	Memory, thy graceful mantle gently falls
		Enwrapping me in some lone dreamy hour,
	And its enchantment ev'ry sense enthralls,
		And holds me spell-bound with its mystic pow'r

	Memory paints its images of the past.
The long years bring up their retinue of
varied scenes, and multifarious changes,
and anon we catch a glimpse of beautiful
coloring like a picture in the mind, and we 
touch it up with the latent recollections we
can awaken; remembrances of our former
lives recorded on memory's tablets, and hid-
den away with other treasures in the dim
and dusty corners of our brain, without
thought of their ever being brought to the
light. It is thus with me to-day. I am
looking down the long vista of the years
and I see a shadowy panorama stretching
away in the distance, disclosing to view as
it slowly unrolls familiar scenes and times
and places. What is it touches us acutely

[Column 2]

in glancing backward, in recalling former
incidents, localities and surroundings. Why
should one realize such exquisite tender-
ness in musing upon the pictures memory
opens up to view; pictures long buried out
of sight, only recalled now and then when
some sudden flash of "the light of other
days" flits across the tablets of the mind.
These impressions, so vivid, have been
stamped not only upon the mind but the
heart; and I believe it is this that causes us
to feel such affectional emotions when we
gaze backward into the long corridors which
time has defaced, and were it not for some
deeply engraven impressions would have
almost obliterated.
	Amid the shades of the past I distinguish
the outline of a form perfect in contour, and
yet so dim and indistinctly defined that it is
scarcely recognizable, only by the general
bearing and the familiar smile that recalls
so many pleasant yet sorrowful things, that
I pause and wonder and contemplate the
changes that have transpired since she
whose image I have ever so fondly cherish-
ed was laid beneath the sod, far from her
home, a victim of the cruel persecution of
a cruel mob in our boasted land of freedom
and religious liberty. Oh how my heart
thrills with indefinable emotions as I see in
fancy and vividly recall the scenes of that
terrible exodus.
	My heart bleeds afresh at this dark and
dismal draping of a part of the life-picture
that hangs in the walls of the old time-hon-
ored edifice which has been gradually grow-
ing and increasing with the years that have
passed. Sometimes smoothly and in harmo-
nious arrangement, sometimes the roughest
stones thrown in with the most awkward
handling, and with a taste and style neither
lofty, or elegant; but I would fain trust they
did not weaken the structure which has
been the work of a life-time. Perchance
in the years that follow we may be able to
polish up and refine some things that have
been left in a rough and unfinished state;
at least it is pleasant to think so. And we
know that if we are now better supplied
with materials for building, though we can-
not obliterate the past, yet we may add
something that will reflect credit upon it,
we may ornament the walls, and adorn it
artistically if we have laid a solid founda-
tion, and we may add to its size heighth
and proportions in such a way as to finish it
up symmetrically.
	But the pictures hung upon its walls
though dimmed and blurred by age we can-
not altogether cover up. Be they disagree-
able ones even there they still hang, as re-
minders of incidents which touch us to the
very centre of our being. I know the world
tells us to shut out the past, to bury it for-
ever, but I think it is sometimes well enough
to catch a glimpse even of unpleasantness.
It is usual to refer to the happy days of
childhood and the scenes that seem bright-
est from the distance, but they too were
made up of storms and sunshine; as well as
those of after years.
	I will say to the readers of our home pa-
per this is the beginning of a series of let-
ters, and if you like them yon shall hear of-
ten from,
