[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | May | Issue: 22 | Title: SOCIETY. | Author: MRS. NELLIE GRACE,]

			SOCIETY.

	[Report of the Relief Society Conference
of the Hawaiian Islands held at Laii Oahu,
April 8th, 1893.]
	As usual on such occasions, the native
sisters assembled at "Lanahuli" arrayed
in white and each wearing a society badge,
bearing the inscription "Ka Heii Manawale,"
Through the energetic efforts of our good
Marshal of the day, "Pono," the procession
was soon formed into line, and at ten
o'clock promptly was marching to the
enlivening strains of music discoursed by
our Laii Martial Band. Upon arriving at
the meeting house, all were comfortably
seated in their proper places by three of our
young native sisters who acted as ushers,
and who deserve great credit for the success 
with which they carried out their part of
the programme, viz., dispensing water to the
thirsty, arousing those who were inclined
to sleep, keeping order among the little
folks, etc.
	The house was profusely and beautifully
decorated with ferns and flowers; at the
back of the stand hung large pictures of 
Brigham Young and of the First Presidency,
draped with festoons of red and white cloth
and ferns. At each side of the stand, over
the entrance ways were to be seen pictures
of the Salt Lake Temple, one representing
the Temple in its early course of erection,
the other showing the beautiful edifice since
its completion. The walls of the Taber-
nacle, on either side, were ornamented
with banners of various kinds inscribed
with some of the noble sentiments uttered
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Our Presi-
dent, Sister Libbie Noall, called the Con-
ference to order and after the usual opening
exercises, reports were read by the Sec'y,
Sister Kekuewa Nakuaau, showing a mem-
bership of 692; number of meetings held
during the half year 429.
Balance in treasury at date of last report, $367.75
Money donated during this term...174.44
			DISBURSEMENTS.
Donation to the poor	. . . . . . .	53.50
"	"	"	Temple	. . . . .	93.45
"	"	"	Missionary fund . . 17.05
Tithing						10.70
Miscellaneous donations		63.60
Balance in treasury				304.49
	The remainder of the two sessions of our
Conference was devoted to the "Eleles," or
representatives of the different branches
from the several Islands, numbering about
thirty-one, who gave in their reports as to
the condition of their various societies,
which reports proved to be the most com-
plete and satisfactory that have been com-
plete and satisfactory that have been pre-
sented before the Conference for several 
years; every society upon the Islands, with
but two or three exceptions, were repre-
sented, and all reported as being in a fairly
prosperous condition, this speaks well for
the integrity, faithfulness and liberality of
the sisters, when we take into consider-
ation that the majority of the Saints are
very poor, having but limited means where-
with to meet the demands made upon them.
The reports of the "Eleles" were inter-
spersed with words of instruction from the
white sisters, also songs, solos, duets, etc.,
which added life and spirit to our meetings.
	The presiding authorities of the Relief
Societies in all the world were unanimously
sustained by the Conference, after which
the following local officers were sustained
for the ensuing six months:
	Prest. of the Relief Societies of the 
Hawaiian Isles, Libbie Noall; Counselors,

[column 2]
Jennie Harding, Nellie Grace, Maggie
Davis, May Duffin, Annie Thurber, Katie
Hottendoof and Lizzie Brown.
	Of the native sisters, Kekuewa Nakauau
and Kahuhu; aids, Kalua Palaoa and
Niaulani. Rec. Sec'y—Kekuewa Nakuaau
with Luka Kauhine as her assistant. Cor.
Sec'y. Nellie Grace; treasurer, Matthew
Noall. Sister Noall spoke at some length,
giving the sisters timely words of counsel
and instruction pertaining to their duties,
also read a letter from the first presidency
of the Relief Societies, touching upon the
duties of the different officers of the society,
this letter was explained in full to the un-
derstanding of all present. President Noall
followed, addressing the Saints in his
usual lively and spirited manner, encourag-
ing them in their labors, after which he
spoke upon the necessity of organizing a 
Primary Association and the benefit that
would result from such an organization;
this subject had been previously agitated
and discussed by the sisters and all were of
one heart and one mind in desiring to take
upon themselves this new labor in behalf
of the native children of the Laie branch.
	The following names were submitted to the
Conference and sustained as officers of the 
Association: Libbie Noall Prest., Maggie
Davis and Lizzie Brown, Ioane I., Sec'y,
Elena Ass't Sec, Musical Director, Nellie
Grace, Treas. Katie Hottendorf.
	A social reunion and dance at the school
house in the evening, proved a happy
sequel to the day's proceedings and was
thoroughly enjoyed by all.
	A special officer's meeting was called by
our President, for the benefit of the visiting
sisters, wherin they might counsel with the
missionary sisters upon subjects pertaining
to the welfare of their societies, which
would not be advisable to discuss in a pub-
lic meeting.
	They left their "aloha mii" with us, and
took ours with them to be distributed
among the Saints of their respective dis-
tricts; and thus they parted from us, feeling
amply repaid for coming to conference, and
filled with the good things they had heard,
so the good work is rolling on in this part
of the world and the missionaries take
pleasure and satisfaction in proclaiming glad
tidings of joy and salvation to this branch
of the house of Israel, and they feel proud
of the honor bestowed upon them in being
counted worthy to assist in pruning the
vineyard of the Lord for the last time.
				MRS. NELLIE GRACE,
	Cor. Sec. Relief Society of the Hawaiian
Islands. Laie, April 20th, 1893.


[column 1]
