[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | May | Issue: 22 | Title: PASSING THOUGHTS. | Author: Unknown]

PASSING THOUGHTS.

	SOME people object to fairy tales and say
they are taught to deceive; for myself I
do not think so.  Aside from the entertain-
ment they offer there is always a moral and
usually a very good one connected with
them.  Generally speaking, people are not
very fond of moralizing, they object to
being found fault with or to having their
faults pointed out to them, but under the
guise of a charming fairy tale many a mor-
al lesson is taught and indelibly impressed
on the mind.  This truth was recently
most forcibly brought to my mind while
spending an evening with a most beautifu;
young lady, and I mean to repeat an old


[Column 1]
well-known fairy story with the moral I
learned the other night.
	Many years ago in the far country, there
lived a widow with two daughters, Rose
and Flora.  Rose was plain looking, while
Flora was most beautiful to behold.
	The mother was a vain, foolish woman
who desired wealth and position above
virtue and truth, and through this beautiful
daughter she hoped to obtain her worldly
desires, and she strained every effort and 
means within her power to advance Flora
and educate her, that she might become
the wife of a nobleman.  She caused Rose
much sorrow in that she made her toil and
work, and she had to wait on her sister
hand and foot, in fact Rose was a mere
servant while Flora was treated like a
princess. One day poor Rose, worn out
with hard work and her feelings having
been hurt by the scolding she received, be-
gan to weep and lament.  Just then an old
lady came to the door and asked for some-
thing to eat and a place to rest, she saw the
trouble in the house and the cause, and she
told the wicked mother that some day her
daughter Rose would become great and
beautiful and that every time she opened
her mouth to speak pearls and diamonds 
and precious gems would fall from her 
mouth, and whenever Flora spoke toads
and snakes would fall from her mouth.
The mother was naturally very angry and 
drove the old woman away, but sure enough
one day a prince stopped at the house on
his way through the forests for a drink.
Not knowing his high position, Flora in a
haughty, ill-mannered was replied she did
not wait on travelers, but Rose seeing an
opportunity to do some good, immediately
waited on the Prince who was very tired
and thirsty, and so sweet was her manner
and so gentle her way that he became in
love with her and asked her mother to
give her to him in marriage.  Not knowing
his rank and believing him to be only a
common traveler, Flora did not interfere
but great was her anger and dismay when
she learned her sister's husband was a prince,
and she became very bitter and never
used nice language but rude and sour and
wicked words always passed her mouth,
while her sister Rose became a great princess
and taught her people so much goodness,
and only words of kindness and truth and
wisdom ever left her mouth.
	Now of course everybody sees the moral,
but why tell the story now?  The point is
this, my young friends, though very beauti-
ful, it is not becoming to be too opinion-
ated and too free with slang and bitter e-
pressions.  When I was a little girl and
that story was told to me I used always to
shudder and turn cold at the thought of
snakes and toads dropping from anyone's 
mouth and I used fairly to suffer in my
feelings for that poor girl who was so cursed;
but do you know expressions of hate and
envy and malice have that same effect upon
me now.  No young woman, be she ever so
beautiful, can afford to use strong and un-
pleasant language.  I do not mean profanity,
that would indeed be dreadful, and I am
thankful to say I know no young woman
who is profane, but I have heard girls
speak very rudely and disagreeably and
when they do so, I always think of the
poor unfortunate girl in the fairy tale;
but how fortunate we are to know so many
girls whose every word is a gem.
	To be sweetly spoken is a beautiful gift
and no young lady can afford to be ill-
tempered and ill-spoken, for some day the

[Column 2]
prince will come along and the soft and
gentle words will touch the heart one longs
to know, while rude words only wound or
at least displease. CAMELIA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Is it not about time that joking at the ex-
pense of public women should be stopped?
You can hardly take up a daily paper
throughout the land but you will find a
coarse fling at some earnest reformer, the
single woman of unavowed age, or the
mother-in law. Her age is a pebble in the
hand of every underwitted reporter to
fling at her. Her zeal is but the jeer of
triflers, whose influence in the world, com-
pared to hers, is less than the breath of a
broken bellows. Her individuality is mere
crankism in the estimation of striplings,
who, if they should live until Time him-
self grew gray, would never know one-
hundredth part as much as she did before
she learned the alphabet. Men who never
in this world, nor in the far-away possi-
bilities of the next, can hope to sprout a
soul, bandy jests at her expense; stale
witticisms are flung at her airily as old
boots are thrown at vagrant cats. Is there
nothing left for man’s veneration? Has it
come to pass that even the divine love of
motherhood, with all its tender patience
and jealous care, is without honor among
men? Our grandmothers tell us, as one re-
calls the legends of a forgotten past, that
there was a time when children were taught
to be reverent; when young men were
chivalrous and old men courtly, yielding a
beautiful deference to woman, as her right,
and to motherhood as to the coronation that
made a mother queen of heaven! Did you
ever stop to think, when you joined in the
laugh that followed some coarse minstrel
joke at a mother-in-law’s expense, of all
that is involved in that term? A mother
has received from heaven, heavens’
choicest gift—a precious child. She has
brooded over every moment of its infant
life; she has stood next to God in its help-
lessness; she has nursed it through terrible
illness; she has guided and controlled,
prayed away temptation and interposed her
own bosom between the shafts of sorrow
and its tender heart. The child has grown
to womanhood, dear as her own soul, as
necessary to her being as sunshine is to the
gaunt old earth—when lo! up steps a dap-
per youth and beckons her girl away.
Where love leads young feet will follow,
and the mother’s heart is bereft of its
treasure, given over to the care of a
stranger. I declare, when I think of it
I wonder there is a sane mother-in-law in
the world.


