[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 905 | Special Feature | The Relief Society Annual General Conference | Hulda Parker]
Brown First Counselor in the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the'General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference October 2, 1963] My dear sisters and co-workers, I am subdued and humbled as I stand here today where my close personal friend and co-worker expected to stand, but who is now engaged elsewhere. The sudden passing of President Henry D. Moyle is a loss to the Church and to the world. I am sure all of us join with Sister Harold B. Lee in her beautiful prayer in extending to Sister Moyle and her family our love and sympathy. After the morning meeting of the First Presidency today, President McKay asked me if I would convey to the Presidency of the Relief Society and to this great Relief Society Conference his regrets that he was not able to be present. He sent to you his love, his blessing, and his congratulations on the great work you are accomplishing. May I pause here, sisters, to bear witness to you that President David O. McKay is a prophet, seer, and revelator. He is inspired by the spirit of the Lord and the will of the Lord is made known unto him. His great leadership in the Church, his wonderful influence in the world results from the fact that he is a prophet of God. I wanted you sisters to know that from one whose privilege it is to have daily association with him. Whenever we think of or meet with the Relief Societies of the Church, we think of love and loyalty, of mercy and service, of faith and charity. All these and many other virtues associated with Relief Society are exemplified by its members, and for this we are deeply grateful. And we think of the parable of the Good Samaritan, in which Jesus taught the lesson on religion in action. The Samaritan, according to the record, held no high office, wrote no book, was not widely known, but has been remembered through the centuries because he extended to a stranger a hand of love and assistance. He did not seek commendation for what he did; he did not publicize his action. The quiet, unpublicized work of the Relief Society reminds us of the Good Samaritan. In fact, this organization is an organized army of Good Samaritans, one quarter of a million strong. They work mainly in "no-man's land." That phrase may have a double meaning here today. In the army, no-man's land is that area between two opposing armies which neither side claims as its own. We think of you in no-man's land because no man could or would do the work that the Relief Societies do any more than he could do the work required of a mother. Relief Society sisters wear no uni- 


 forms, they have no insignia, but they are recognized because their lives conform to the truths they teach. Now that 'is not only a statement of fact, but is a challenge for the future. My mother was a Relief Society stake president in Western Canada. She traveled with horse and buggy in some very inclement weather. Thinking of her, I would like to read to you what it seems to me typifies the life of the average Relief Society officer, a life crammed with action, with responsibility and work. Some of you, most of you, I think, will not remember the days to which this refers, but some of us remember this. May I read a paragraph to you. Grandmother, on a winter's day, milked the cows, slopped the hogs, saddled the mule, and got the children off to school; did a washing, mopped the floors, washed the windows, and did some chores; cooked a dish of home-dried fruit, pressed her husband's Sunday suit, swept the parlor, made the bed, baked a dozen loaves of bread, split some firewood and lugged it in, enough to fill the kitchen bin; cleaned the lamps and put in oil, stewed some apples she thought would spoil, churned the butter, baked a cake,. Then exclaimed, 'For goodness sake, the calves have got out of the pen," and went out and chased them in again; gathered the eggs and locked the stable, back to the house and set the table, cooked a supper that was delicious, and afterward washed up all the dishes; fed the cat and sprinkled the clothes, mended a basketful of hose; then opened the organ and began to play "When You Come to the End of a Perfect Day." —Bennett Cerf). That reminds me so much of the life of the average Relief Society officer, teacher, worker. Your labors of love remind us of the sacred shrine of motherhood; in fact you are to the Church what mother is to the home. You go. To the bereaved, the unfortunate, the sick, the wounded; you go into the hospitals or wherever there is a call for help. Where there is frustration, disillusionment, sorrow, or bereavement— and these come to all of us at one time or another—the people always turn to you for comfort and re- 894 (The Laugh's On Me, pp. 176. 177. Lief, and you never fail them. Even they who must pay the price for folly or sin find refuge here in Relief Society, and are encouraged to try again and rely upon the divine law of repentance and the love and mercy of the Lord. Mothers minister to the needs of human beings from their prenatal to their immortal state. Neither birth nor death can break the cord of love which binds our lives to theirs. Without their tender care the home would lose its honored and hallowed place in the hearts and lives of men. The mother is the spirit of the home; she gives it fragrance, atmosphere, love, and life. And that's what the Relief Society gives to the Church. WHEREVER human beings live, whether in a palace or a cottage, there is universal homage paid to mothers; and wherever the Relief Society is organized, in hamlets, towns, or cities, they are engaged in a work comparable to that in which mothers are constantly engaged. You render service to all ages, in all seasons, and in most of the countries of the world today. Your services are always available, whether the call comes for layettes for the unborn, for burial clothes for the deceased, or for flowers and food for the bereaved, you are always there. Men may become rulers of nations, of empires, lead armies into battle, make laws, administer justice, write books, discover the secrets of the universe, release the power of the atom and partially control it; but the mothers of the world, God's agents of mercy wherever human life exists, are exerting an influence greater than all these can do. Mothers inspired the great men to whose memory we build monuments, and they put into their work the kind of spirit which gives them a saintliness, which is distinctively their own. Among your many other duties you Relief Society workers are training the young mothers of the future and that is a more important work than training the scholars, the statesmen, the military men of the future. We thank the Lord for the equal partnership that exists between the mothers and the fathers in the Church. I must not, however, much as we love you, spend more time on eulogy alone. We bring to you also a challenge and a charge, for there is great work to be done, great tasks lie ahead. Your job and ours is to teach our people to respect authority both in Church and State, to obey the law, and be made amenable to discipline. We must imbue them with a sense of loyalty and patriotism. Our people should not join in the demonstrations and marches in defiance of law and order, nor should they join organizations whose purpose is to undermine and put in question the integrity of our leaders, whether in Church or State. With a loss of respect for the laws of the land, there comes a corresponding loss of respect for the laws of God. Your job and ours is to educate the hearts of people. Teach them to have a discriminating sense of values, to enrich their personalities, live abundantly, and glorify their intelligence with the warmth and glow of love of God and fellow men. In other words, the head and heart must work together, and support each other. Someone has said, '""The education of the heart is the heart of education." THE greatest heart that ever beat was the educated heart of Jesus. And the greatest sermon ever preached appealed to the hearts more than the minds of his fortunate listeners. Because of that education of the heart and that appeal. To the hearts. Of _people, his divine message has been effective through the centuries. The apostle Paul's matchless chapter on charity and love came from an educated heart and a richly furnished mind. He said the eloquence of men and of angels without love is "... As sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal," that knowledge and faith that would AN ARMY OF GOOD SAMARITANS be sufficient to move mountains are nothing without love, and, furthermore, that giving and _ bestowing, though it be lavish and even sacrificial, if it lacks love, will profit nothing to the giver. Love is the most ennobling, the most beautiful, the most sacred of men's emotions, but, and this I would like to underline because of conditions as we find them in the world, it is necessary that we warn our people against the awful influence of love's counterfeit— lust and licentiousness, the most. Poisonous and debasing of all. Of Satan's allurements. 'These are made, unfortunately, to appear acceptable in some publications of the day which are found in the bookstores and the bookracks available to our youth. Let us teach them to be clean, to be pure, to be honorable and upright. If, for no other reason, than that they are going to have to live with history and with memory. Let us become progressively aware of and bring to fruition the spiritual equipment, the creative intellect, the motivating imagination, the enduring zest and vitality, the adventurous curiosity, and the aesthetic appreciation of our people. In all these areas we find the Relief Society women working, not alone in relieving the suffering of the world, but inspiring and lifting up and glonfying the beautiful in daily life as well as in literature and art. When the choir sang "Give Me Your Tired, Your Poor' — and may I pause here to compliment the Singing Mothers and their talented director. Sister Madsen and I were in school together sometime ago. She was, of course, much younger than I, but I discovered then that she is a genius. She goes to Idaho, California, or Arizona, even here in Salt Lake City, and is able to find women who respond to her magic and bring beauty, harmony, and inspiration to our conferences. Thank you, Sister Madsen, and thank you sisters from Arizona. 


 Burt when they sang "Give Me Your Tired, Your Poor," I turned to a little poem that Sister Brown handed me sometime ago from Sunshine Magazine. I turn to it now because at this time there is a concerted effort being made to undermine the very foundations of our country and our form of government and we must be on guard. Let us prize this America of ours and try to be worthy of our heritage. I like the verse of our patriotic anthem "Our Father's God to thee, author of liberty, to thee we sing.. Long may our land be bright with freedom's holy light. Protect us by thy might, great God our King." I thank God for that last line, "great God our King'— the only king we know. But this is what one wrote about America: God built a continent with glory and filled it with treasures untold. He bedecked it with soft, rolling prairies, and pillared it with thundering mountains. He studded it with sweetly flowing streams and mighty winding rivers. He graced it with deep shadowed forests, and filled it with song. But these treasures would have meant little if the myriads of people, the bravest of the races, had not come, each bearing a gift and a hope. They had the glow of adventure in their eyes, the glory of hope in their souls, and out of them was fashioned a _ nation, blessed with a purpose sublime. They called it America. Yes, they did bring us their tired and their poor and our ancestors were among them. Thank God for America. Now with respect to this atomic age, the dangers which we face and problems that he ahead, may I bring you a warning from a general in the army who saw clearly and spoke forcefully. He made the following statement: With the monstrous weapons man already has, humanity is in danger of being trapped in this world by its moral adolescence. Our knowledge of science has clearly outstripped our capacity to control it. (We have. Too many men of science; too few men of God.) We have grasped the mystery of the atom and rejected the Sermon on the Mount. Man is stumbling blindly through a spiritual darkness while toying with the precarious secrets of life and death. The world has achieved brilliance without wisdom, power without conscience. Ours is a world of 896 nuclear giants and ethical infants. We know more about war than we know about peace; more about killing than we know about living. This is our 20th Century's claim to distinction and progress. That's a serious indictment of the vaunted efforts of our great scientists. God help us to retain the spirit of the Sermon on the Mount while our scientists explore outer space. Mir. William Temple, formerly Archbishop of Canterbury, said: Purely scientific education must produce a generation adept at dealing with things, indifferently qualified to deal with people, and incapable of dealing with ideas. "We hope your knowledge — which is of the head — will be motivated by wisdom — which is of the heart. One is determined by what you know, the other by what you do with what you know. Surely out of the heart cometh the issues of life. While we enjoy and are inspired by our "Singing Mothers," many of our young people are saved by our "praying mothers." We should teach the youth of the Church how to pray. When the disciples heard Jesus pray, they said pleadingly, 'Lord, teach us to pray." When we teach our people to pray, "Our Father who art in heaven,'' we should impress upon them the responsibility which that salutation imposes, namely, that he is our Father and that we are his children, and, therefore, there is something of him in us. Let us seek to be worthy of that relationship. We are confronted today with a multitude of problems, many of them are soul-searching and tragic. The wreckage of divorce and broken homes is spreading into all the communities of our country, including our own. We may do our best to repair the damage, to reconstruct, to encourage, and try to get the unfortunate to begin again, but our greatest challenge is through education to prepare people to avoid these tragedies. The problem of birth control with voluntary barrenness is poisoning the very fountains of life and defying God's injunction to multiply and replenish the earth. Juvenile delinquency is rampant in the world. This is aided and abetted by men and women who fail to live up to the responsibilities of parenthood. We must teach them that liberty and license are not synonymous and that obedience to law is liberty. Some have thought that Relief Societies labor only in the background. I would like to tell the world as I observe the actions and activities of the Relief Soc

ieties allover the Church that the Relief Society sisters are in the vanguard of human progress. I would like to tell the brethren of the Church that the Relief Society sisters are blazing the trail, pointing the way and setting the pace. That is a real challenge. I should like to call your attention to a statement made by the apostle Paul. It is applicable although you are women and women ordinarily do not go to war. He refers to the kind of armor which will fit women as well as men, and without which neither women nor men can subdue the enemy we must meet. In Ephesians we read: For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation, and the ia of the Spirit, which is the word of od: Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints... (Ephesians 6:12-18). And now what are some of the rewards that are to come to you and to us if we can, like Paul, fight a good AN ARMY OF GOOD SAMARITANS fight, finish the course, and keep the faith? Here is what the Lord has promised to the faithful, sisters as well as holders of the Priesthood: Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's, and Christ is God's. And they shall overcome all things.... These shall dwell in the presence of God and his Christ forever and ever. These are they whom he shall bring with him, when he shall come in the clouds of heaven to reign on the earth over his people. These are they who shall have part in the first resurrection. These are they who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just. These are they who are come unto Mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly place, the holiest of all. These are they who have come to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and Church of Enoch, and of the Firstborn. These are they whose names are written in heaven, where God and Christ are the judge of all (D.&C. 76:59-60, 62-68). One of the duties that rests upon the brethren in the Council of Twelve and associated councils is to bear witness of Christ. Humbly, but fearlessly, I bear witness of him. He is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world. I know that better than I know anything else, and from the very center of my heart I say to you, Christ still lives, and though you may have many difficulties and problems to meet, though you may have sorrow, disappointment, and bereavement, remember his help is available. His ways are always right though sometimes we may not understand them. I like this closing verse: Sometime, when all life's lessons have been learned, And sun and stars forevermore have set, And things which our weak judgments here have spurned, The things o'er which we grieved with lashes wet, Will flash before us out of life's dark night, As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue; And we shall see how all God's plans are right, And how what seemed reproof was love most true. 


 And you shall shortly know that lengthened breath Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend, And that, sometimes, the sable pall of death Conceals the fairest bloom His love can send. If we could push ajar the gates of life, And stand within and all God's workings see, We could interpret all this doubt and strife, And for each mystery could find a key. But not today. Then be content, poor heart; God's plans, like lilies pure and white, unfold. Wemust not tear the close-shut leaves apart— Time will reveal the calyxes of gold. And if, through patient toil, we reach the land Where tired feet, with sandals loosed, may rest, When we shall clearly see and understand, I think that we will say, "God knew the best." —May Riley Smith By the power and authority that is mine to bless, I bless you, my dear sisters, and all those to whom you may return when this conference is over. God bless our mothers and their associates in the Relief Society. I bless you that there may be peace and love and harmony in your homes. I bless you that you may influence your husbands, some of whom are inactive, and provoke them to good works. I bless you that you may have the courage and fortitude and faith to continue to the end. I bless you that as you leave this building today you may carry with you the influence of the Holy Spirit that is here yearningly pleading with all of us to "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." I leave this testimony and this blessing with you humbly, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. Dorothy J. Roberts Remembrance of a child is upon the world Echoing through the years from Bethlehem— The waiting, the carols, the bringing forth, The ointments of worship and of wonder. Now in the shadow of the waning hours, This un-pent devotion. Now when the ink of night Has blurred the sun in the winter-brief day, This springlike burgeoning within the heart This blossoming of mind... This rainbow fruit Of love bending the borrowed tree...