[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 942 | Lesson | Work Meeting — Planning and Preserving Traditions Important to the Family Virginia | F. Cutler]
[Work Meeting — Planning and Preserving Traditions Important to the Family Virginia F. Cutler]

melody. In a very real sense this integrating unity of style and tone is her most memorable achievement, for once having read her, and having at firsthand partaken of the pleasure of her mind and heart, we can never forget her. But above and beyond the page shines her "spiritual clarity,' present only in those writers such as Miss Cather who love the truth with such an abiding dedication that they can tell it. And the truth of her works comes out of her life. Miss Cather's Life Born in 1874 to Anglo-Saxon parents who had long worked the soil, Willa moved with her family from her Virginia birthplace when she was nine to the exciting freedoms and promises offered by the virgin Nebraska plains. Nowhere in her essays of published fiction does she make a detectable reference to her parents other than in a_ poem, "Macon Prairie," which was published in April Twilights, a book of poetry which appeared in 1902. If the poem is to be trusted, her parents were bewildered by the irresistible "spirit of Westerning," even while being led west by the indomitable will of her dying aunt. LESSON DEPARTMENT They came, at last, to where the railway ended, The strange troop captained by a dying woman; The father, the old man of perfect silence, The mother, unresisting, broken-hearted, The gentle brother and his wife, both timid, Not knowing why they left their native hamlet; Going as in a dream, but ever going. (Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., New York, page 57. Reprinted by permission of the publishers ). It was these childhood years spent under the vast prairie sky while living among pioneers newly migrated from the Old World that gave her the themes and _ values about which her literary achievements were to be built. "That love of great spaces, of rolling, open country like the sea — it's the grand passion of my life." This she learned forever, but the sense of life, which came to have a deeper, larger origin within her, came from her great love for those common, simple folk in whom she found qualities of enduring greatness. In that decade when half a million people became sodhouse pioneers, she grew up in a pattern dominated by European influences. On Sunday she listened to sermons in French, Norwegian, and Danish. In nearby communities no English whatsoever was spoken. 'These transplanted settlers loved music and group celebrations. Grieg and Liszt still warmed their hearts. Not until her family moved to Red Cloud in her teens did Willa attend formal school. She had learned Latin from the neighbors who loved this classical tongue and discipline, as she did. With her two grandmothers she read English lit- 


 erature. But her most important "mines of life" were the hours she spent riding her pony about the free countryside, visiting with warmhearted Czech and Norwegian women as they baked or churned. I used to ride home in the most unreasonable state of excitement. I always felt as if they had told me so much more than they said — as if I had actually got inside another person's skin.... Their stories used to go round and round in my head at night. This was, with me, the initial impulse (Van Doren, Cart: The American Novel, The Macmillan Company, 1939, page 282. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). After graduating from high school in Red Cloud, she attended the University of Nebraska where she was editor of the literary magazine, in which her first published work appeared. After her graduation, in 1895, she became a journalist, writing first in Pittsburgh (where for a time she taught English), then later in New York City where she soon became editor of McClure's Magazine, one of the leading vehicles for the "Muckrakers," a movement of idealists and journalists who exposed widespread municipal corruptions throughout the budding nation. Although she was thus intimately associated with the grim realities of her contemporaries, she never incorporated any of these "realities" into her fiction. As time was to prove, her imagination was far too concerned with the abundant life as she saw it to permit itself to be trammeled underfoot by life's surface furnishings and trivia. In her late twenties she made the first of many trips to Europe, and throughout her life traveled widely, in later years returning most often 944 to the American Southwest. In 1911, when she was thirty-seven years of age, she resigned from her editorship to devote her full energies to creative writing. O Pioneers!, one of her most successful novels, appeared in 1913. My Antonia (1918), probably her best-loved work save perhaps for Death Comes for the Archbishop (1927), firmly established her growing reputation. Death came to Willa Cather in 1947 while she was living in New York City. During her lifetime she had written one book of poems, a book of essays, her autobiography, three collections of stories, and twelve novels. In very deed her art was her life, a conviction Miss Cather phrased well in The Song of the Lark:. What was any art but an effort to make a sheath, a mould in which to imprison for a moment the shining, elusive element which is life itself, — life hurrying past us and running away, too strong to stop, too sweet to lose? (The Song of the Lark, Houghton Mifflin Company, 1924, page 304. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). That she loved her writing and — the tools of her craft is amply proved by the above and foregoing quotations from her pen; that she honored other loves can be shown through definition and examples drawn from her works. Love of Place Alexandra Bergson, the strong, serene heroine of O Pioneers!, has shouldered the responsibility of pioneering their ranchland for her family. After making sure that the battle is won, she finally promises to marry Carl, her patient childhood sweetheart now long grown to manhood. '".. I've lived here a long time. There is great peace here, Carl, and _ freedom." "You belong to the land," Carl murmured, "as you have always said. Now more than ever."... 'They paused on the last ridge of the pasture, overlooking the house and the windmill and the stables that marked the site of John Bergson's homestead. On every side the brown waves of the earth rolled away to meet the sky. "Lou and Oscar can't see those things," said Alexandra suddenly. "Suppose I do will my land to their children, what difference will that make? The land _ belongs to the future, Carl; that's the way it seems to me. How many of the names on the county clerk's plat will be there in fifty years? I might as well try to will the sunset over there to my brother's children. We come and go, but the land is always here. And the people who love it and understand it are the people who own it — for a little while" (Catuer, Witta: O Pioneers!, Houghton Mifflin, 1938, pp. 307-308. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). Willa Cather loved a place until it became an emotion perceivable to the senses. Another example of this is found in her description of New Mexico's hot dry air, fragrant with sagebrush and sweet clover, as apprehended by Father Latour, the great central character of Death Comes for the Archbishop. (See Death Comes for the Archbishop, Alfred A. Knopf, 1927, pp. 276-277.) Love of Beauty From her childhood friendship with a German family who dearly loved German music and their great national artists, Miss Cather grew to love "the finer things," often defending them against the greedy coarseness of pioneer life, as shown LESSON DEPARTMENT in "The Sculptor's Funeral," one of her most famous short stories. Its same theme she. Later enlarged into her novel The Song of the Lark, which tells how a girl in a Colorado mining town escapes from her unsympathetic environment to find eventual fulfilment as a great singer for the Metropolitan Opera. 'This same theme is also used in her story "A Wagner Matinee." 'The story teller's aunt had left her position as a teacher at the Boston Conservatory to marry a shiftless: boy and run away to. Nebraska where they had farmed for thirty years. Now she has returned for the first time, and attends a symphony concert featuring the works of Richard Wagner. Read aloud, if available, the paragraph beginning "The first number was the 'Tannhauser" through "refuse about the kitchen door." If Miss Cather's greatness is to be explained by any one achievement, it might well be by the compassion and sympathy with which she thus writes of her fellow mortals. Gentle, kind, understanding, she sees human weakness and forgives, but more often she finds strength that triumphs — often through love. Yet in this achievement she once more exemplifies her own critical standards, for as she has written, it is the gift of sympathy, the giving of himself absolutely to his material, which enables a writer to achieve something noble and enduring. Though Miss Cather loved music and art with a lifelong passion, her own "fine thing" is her great sympathy for others, seen sharply and expressed out of her warm heart. And this beauty, along with 


 those already mentioned, is nicely exemplified in perhaps her most popular short story, "Neighbour Rosicky," which appears in our text. (This story is printed in Obscure Destinies, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1932. Excerpts are reprinted herein by permission of the publishers. ) Love of People As the story opens, Rosicky's good friend, Dr. Burleigh, has just informed him that his heart is weak and that he must stop doing all heavy duties on the farm. As he receives the news, Rosicky's contented disposition and easy manner sustain him under such a_ bitter blow. "Well, I guess you ain't got no pills fur a bad heart, Doctor Ed. I guess the only thing is fur me to git me a new one." But despite such jokes, the doctor cautions him even while reminding him how lucky he is. "... Rosicky, you are one of the few men I know who has a family he can get some comfort out of; happy dispositions, never quarrel among themselves, and they treat you right. I want to see you live a few years and enjoy them" (text, page 835). Both to others, as to the members of their own family, the Rosicky's seem entirely selfless, following the pattern of the father, as they pour forth affection, consideration, and potential wealth to insure each other's health and contentment. Without envy they watch their neighbors sell their cream and put the money in the bank, buying more land and cattle than they. But when it is suggested they turn their cream into profit by selling it to the 946 creamery, the indignant Mary is at once on the defensive. "Yes," said Mary, "and look at them Fassler children! Pale, pinched _ little things, they look like skimmed milk. I'd rather put some colour into my children's taces than put money into the bank..." "IT guess we'll do like she says,' said Rosicky. When Polly, his new daughter-inlaw, needs to get away, it is Rosicky who arranges to lend them his car, then takes over the apron and dishcloth to clean up the kitchen so the young couple can get away for the evening to enjoy each other. After they came from their bedroom all dressed in their best and looking a little stiff:... Rosicky hurried them off, and then he took his own time with the dishes. He scoured the pots and pans and put away the milk and swept the kitchen. He put some coal in the stove and shut off the draughts, so the place would be warm for them when they got home late at night. 'Then he sat down and had a pipe and listened to the clock tick (text, page 842). In his hour of contentment he plans further how he can keep his Rudolph and Polly near him on the land he loves, rather than allowing them to run away, lured by the regular salary and seeming security of the Omaha stockyards, a security which Rosicky knows is slavery when compared to owning your own land. Drought has curdled the land and Rudolph, the new husband, feels his farmer's life brings greater responsibilities than he need _ bear. But Rosicky tells him of past droughts far fiercer than any Rudolph has known, and how, when Rosicky had once discovered on the Fourth of July that his forty acres of corn had been cooked and destroyed while in the husk, his family had a picnic and really enjoyed the blessings that still were theirs. "... An' we enjoyed ourselves that year, poor as we was, an' our neighbours wasn't a bit better off for bein' miserable. Some of 'em grieved till they got poor digestions and couldn't relish what they did have" (Ibid., page 844). Rosicky then tells his family for the first time how hard his life had been as a starving tailor in London, when he became so hungry that he ate the goose his landlady had cooked the day before the family holiday and hidden in his room from her hungry children, feeling that she could trust him. Desperate in his self-condemnation and shame, he had met some fellow Czechs coming out of a restaurant, and, though he had never known them before, he had begged them, "Fellow-countrymen, for God's sake give me money enough to buy a goose!" —. Now for the first time his family understands his endless generosity. Polly begins addressing him as LESSON DEPARTMENT "Father" rather than as "Mr. Rosicky," and when soon he overexerts himself at raking thistles from his newly sown land and dies, all who loved him know he lies at peace in the simple cemetery overgrown with wild red grass surrounded by the land and people he loved. Increasingly throughout her life Miss Cather solved the pressing problems of her contemporaries by ignoring them while she re-created the noble common people out of the past into literary immortality. Always her most "real" world was that of the human spirit and the goodness and strength to endure and to be happy which she always found there. And such values were created in her own image, heightened and simplified through her selfless art. 'I'his is her highest praise. Thoughts for Discussion ~1. Though not an immigrant herself, why did Willa Cather esteem them so highly? 2. Discuss a passage from her writings as. Exemplifying the beauty which her readers have found in her characters. 3. Why did Anton Rosicky dislike large cities? Working for wages? What was his real source of strength and peace? Beulah Huish Sadleir What if I heard sleigh bells? It could be a welcome sound To complement the stillness when New snow is on the ground.