[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 901 | Poem | Gifts of Gold | Lela Foster Morris]
Holy light shone on the scene, The patient oxen did not stir; The wise men knelt with gifts of gold, Rarest frankincense and myrrh. At last they found the Prince of Peace Their treasured offerings to bring, To the Babe in the lowly manger, To Christ the Lord our King. All may bring precious gifts to him, Kind deeds to the poor and the old, To little children who need much love — These are gifts of gold. 901 902 VOLUME 

 ae he t lr ° p t, ane I 2 on f@e pes -— -) é ss et f mMeoroamr pp "Tae 133d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 4th, 5th, and 6th, 1963, with the beloved President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-first year, presiding at all the general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. Under radiant autumn skies, the saints from many nations assembled once more to be instructed, inspired, comforted, and to rejoice together in the blessings of the gospel. This fall the conference proceedings received the widest dissemination in the history of the Church, being carried by more than 160 television stations in Canada and the United States, including Hawaii, and by approximately thirty radio stations. WRUL, the Church short-wave station in New York, broadcast the conference to the world in English and Spanish, and, for the first time, in German and Portuguese. The Relief Society Singing Mothers from the Mesa-Phoenix area presented the music for both sessions of conference on Friday, October 4th, and their lovely voices, under the direction of Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society, carried much richness of tone and great unity of presentation. The saints were saddened at the beginning of conference to see the vacant chair of President Henry D. Moyle, First Counselor to President David O. McKay, who passed away suddenly on September 18th. President Hugh B. Brown, Second Counselor in the First Presidency was sustained as First Counselor, and Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner of the Council of the Twelve was sustained as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. Elder Thomas S. Monson, former President of the Canadian Mission, and a member of the Adult Correlation Committee, was appointed to the Council of the Twelve. Several of the General Authorities were not in attendance at the conference. President Levi Edgar Young and President Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of Seventy were ill; others were away presiding over missions: President Theodore M. Burton of the European Mission; President Bruce R. McConkie of the Australian Mission; President Marion D. Hanks of the British Mission; and President A. Theodore Tuttle of the South American Mission. In his opening address, President McKay spoke of the Heavenly Father's concern for his children, and the gift of free agency as the greatest blessing given to mortal beings: Anna B. Hart Pearle M. Olsen Edith S. Elliott €lsa T. Peterson' Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Leone: G. Layton Elizabeth B.. Winters Blanche 8. Stoddard LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Jennie R. Scott peter pone Aleine M. Young Alice L. Wilkinson Josie B. Bay LaPriel: S. Bunker Alberta H. Christensen Irene W. Buehner Mildred B. Eyring Irene C. Lloyd Charlotte A. Larsen. Hazel S. Cannon Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Winniefred S. Manwaring. ~ Fawn H. Sharp Elna P. Haymond Celestia J. Taylor Mary R. Young Anne R. Gledhill Mary V. Cameron Belva Barlow Afton W. Hunt Zola J. McGhie Wealtha S. Mendenhall Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Freedom of speech, freedom of action with boundaries that do not infringe upon the liberty of others, are man's inherent right— divine gifts essential to human dignity and human happiness.... Generally, there is in man a divinity which strives to push him onward and upward. We believe that this power within him is the spirit that comes from God. Present Hugh B. Brown, after expressing the attitude of the Church on the matter of civil rights, declared: We believe that all men are the children of the same God, and that it is a moral evil for any person or group of persons to deny any human being the right to gainful employment, to full educational opportunity, and to every privilege of citizenship, Just as it is a moral evil to deny him the right to worship according to the dictates of his own conscience. President Brown then testified eloquently of the divine mission of the Savior, saying, ""We bear humble testimony... That he will return and reign personally upon the earth." F: esipent Tanner asked for the faith and prayers of the saints to be with him in his new calling: I pledge with you again that my life and all that I have will be completely devoted to the service of my Maker, and to my fellow men, always with a prayer in my heart that he will give me wisdom and knowledge, courage and strength and inspiration and determination and ability to keep his commandments and serve in a way that will be acceptable to him. I wish to bear my testimony that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ who gave his life for you and me At the close of the conference, President McKay left his blessing with the saints: This has been a great conference. Great messages and glorious singing have made it so. The responsibility with us now is to carry the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ into our homes be true to every covenant. Our homes are the seed beds of faith in Christ our Lord. In his name I bless the members of the Priesthood, the entire membership of the Church in all countries.... 903 CWuttinasOue_the Year In this season of good will and spiritual blessings, let us treasure the love and the traditions that bind family members together in purpose and protection as uplifted and as steadfast as the evergreen trees, a devotion as warm and glowing as the star atop the Christmas tree - symbolic of the Star of Bethlehem. How tender and lasting are the memories of the family circle, a circle forever unbroken in eternal covenants, though time and events may change the segments of the circle and cast into many molds the individual links. In some darkness or trouble of the middle years, there comes to one who remembers an early Christmas, a great illumination of the verities of life - of promises given or blessings delayed.

Perhaps a grandfather will tell of a Christmas in the lonely hills when the only gift for the children was a newborn lamb brought in from the stable, as small and watchful as those lambs which lay in shadows of the Palestinian hills when the shepherds heard a glorious new anthem from the heavens. Perhaps the father in the home, who has blessed his children with the light of gospel teachings, will sit near the Christmas tree, by the lighted fire on Christmas Eve, and explain to his family that Jesus came not unto one nation alone, but his glory shone also upon the American Continent '' and he took their little children one by one and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them. And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones."' In the after years, many gifts will be remembered - the doll whose hair seemed to be pure gold, the little bottle of perfume, fragrant as frankincense; the little pear! Ring, the workbasket, the yellow camel made of hard candy, small gifts, but rich with symbolism of love and thoughtfulness, of anticipation and surprise, and lasting luster. Yet the long-remembered gifts of Christmas - the portraits that will never pass away - are the evidences of spiritual unity in the earth family - some day to become a heavenly family. The spiritual evidences may be slight and apparently evanescent, but they will stay forever upon the indelible parchment of the mind and spirit - the tear that fell upon the grandmother's cheek when someone spoke of Christmases to come, the mother's thin and fragile hand that paused uplifted as she peeled a Christmas orange, the bowed head of a little girl buttoning a dress on a doll. Such music as the Christmas hymns breaking across the night may long be a comfort and a blessing in the years to come. -~V. P. C. 904 Christmas Seals The National Tuberculosis Association A MOTHER, more than anyone, must be aware of seasons and the changes they bring, as she tries to guard the health of her loved ones. One of the busiest times for a mother is the "season of giving," the Christmas season. This time of year, people everywhere are more aware than usual of the needs of others, and are ready to give to others. In the "season of giving" the tuberculosis associations, with their Christmas Seals, offer all of us the opportunity to give to others—as mothers do—the gift of better health, perhaps even the gift of prolonged life. What's more, the Christmas Seal funds collected during this "season of giving" continue to give all year long, through research, health education, testing to uncover hidden tuberculosis, and other respiratory diseases. When a mother puts warm winter clothing on her children, and places Christmas Seals on her mail, she has helped safeguard not only the present health of her children but also their future health. Other children suffering from asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, or influenza, and other respiratory diseases will benefit from the work of the small Christmas Seals her hands place on the gaily-colored Christmas packages and envelopes. By using Christmas Seals on all their mail during this 1963 SEASON OF GIVING, mothers everywhere will share with pride in the progress achieved, and in the hope that TB may soon be stamped out and all respiratory diseases brought under control.