[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 906 | Fiction | Christmas Over the Years Vesta | P. Crawford]
[Christmas Over the Years Vesta P. Crawford]

"' The Need of Christie Lund Coles The name of Christmas is a magic name, As are its kindred names known to our ear: Hallelujah! Shepherd lads who came Following the star, to see, to hear; The syllables of Bethlehem which fall In cadence like some long-loved, choice refrain; The wise men, angels, and the humble stall. Each stands a symbol of his birth again. For somewhere, deep inside each listening soul, Need of the names of Christmas reaches out For reassurance... Of the tree, the toll Of pealing bell and children's eager shout. Oh, Holy Night, on which the heavens smiled, How deep our need for the name of one small Child. 889 Elder Thomas Spencer Monson Elder Thomas Spencer Monson was appointed and sustained a member of the Council of the Twelve at the Friday morning session of the Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, October 4, 1963. This high position of responsibility and leadership has come to one of the youngest men to be so called in many years. Elder Monson is thirty-six years old. He is a humble man of much experience in Church work and in business and civic affairs. He radiates spirituality, humility, kindness. And a deep and pervading solicitude for all the Heavenly Father's children upon the earth. Elder Monson was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, a son of G. Spencer and Gladys Condie Monson. He is a graduate of West High School, and received his B. S. Degree in. Business at the University of Utah, and is a member of Alpha Kappa Psi, honorary business fraternity. He began his career at the Deseret News Press at an early age, and has held many positions of responsibility, including manager of the classified advertising department, sales manager of the Deseret News Press, assistant classified advertising manager of the 890 ma th aT — on o- — _— - et massed =a i casattl pe —_ eve: ie ie — ~~ _— = 4 ELDER THOMAS S. MONSON AND HIS FAMILY Loft to right: Ann, age nine; Thomas Lee, age twelve; Elder Thomas S. Monson; Sister Frances J. Monson. Front, center: Clark Spencer, age four. Newspaper Agency Corporation, and was manager of the Deseret News Press at the time of his call to the apostleship.