[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 940 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher MessCahgreis t i—n e " FHo.r RUonbtion s oHni m That Receiveth. ..." | ]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 54—"For Unto Him That Receiveth It Shall Be Given More Abundantly, Even Power" (D & C 71:6). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, March 1964 Objective: To show that knowledge leads to more knowledge and wisdom begets wisdom. Tue entire quotation from which this message in the Doctrine and Covenants is taken states, "Now, behold this is wisdom; whoso readeth, let him understand and receive also; For unto him that receiveth it shall be given more abundantly, even power" (D & C 71:5-6). Those called to proclaim the gospel, expounding the things of the kingdom according to the spirit and power given them, were promised that as they proclaimed the gospel truths, more power to teach the gospel would be added unto them. This promise of being given added ability or power is also referred to by the Savior in these words: 'For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath" (Matt. 13:12). The fulfillment of this promise is realized not only as we preach the gospel, but also as we seek after knowledge, wisdom, and understanding. The assurance of having knowledge added upon knowledge is one of the most interesting, gratifying, and comforting of life's basic challenges. 938 One of the interesting characteristics of knowledge is, that as we seek and receive it, it comes to us with its own magnifier and multi plier. 'Truth leads to more truth. Knowledge opens the door to more. Knowledge and as one learns, one's capacity to learn improves and one's __ scope of understanding is broadened. President Heber Grant so often emphasized the aphorism of Emerson "That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased" (Gospel Standards, page 355). President Grant's own life exemplified dramatically the application of this basic truth. He surmounted many unusual difficulties through practice and persistence, by taking one step at a time and by using each mastered step to assist him to take the next one. The story is well known of how he improved his penmanship from virtual illegibility to beautiful handwriting through persistence and practice. Also, as a small boy he was unable to sing or carry a tune, and those who tried to teach him despaired in their ef- forts. Yet, through persistent practice and determination, one step at a time, he learned to sing numerous songs and hymns. George D. Pyper, famed musician, once remarked, "President Grant was born with less tune, time, or rhythm than most mortals, yet by his intense energy and persistence, he overcame this handicap" (Hincxiey, Bryant S-:: Life of a Great Leader, page 48). Certainly as we succeed in performing well one task, our ability to move forward to greater accomplishments is improved. 'Truly, as the Doctrine and Covenants states "'unto him that receiveth it shall be given more abundantly, even power' (D & C 71:6). During his ministry, the Savior lamented the fact that many of the people he attempted to teach, although they had eyes and ears, were unable to see, hear, or understand. Unfortunately, this is also frequently true in our own experience. We refuse to see or to receive knowledge. All too often we allow confusion, complacency, uncertainty, and lack of confidence to blind and cheat us out of the joys and _ accomplishments that knowledge and understanding can bring. Some years ago a great woman swimmer who had conquered the English Channel attempted to swim the shorter distance from the Callifornia coast to Catalina Island. The water was cold and a heavy fog lay on the ocean. After successfully LESSON DEPARTMENT covering most of the distance, the swimmer gave up and asked to be taken into the boat which accompanied her. Some time later she was asked if, perhaps, a combination of the cold water and the distance had been responsible for her failure. She replied, "No, it was not the cold nor the distance, it was the fog. I became discouraged when I could not see my objective." Fog (lack of confidence and faith) can easily dim our eyes so that we cannot see our objectives. We become discouraged and close our minds so that we cannot receive wisdom and understanding. As a result, we fail in the accomplishments for which we are actually qualified. In order to gain the joys which accomplishment and achievement bring, we must keep constantly in mind that one task well done leads to the next and makes its achievement less difficult. We must keep fog, complacency, and uncertainty from dimming our eyes and minds, constantly remembering, as the Lord has promised, that as we progress in wisdom and understanding, it shall be given to us more abundantly. Like a muscle that grows stronger through exercise, the successful completion of each new task strengthens our ability to meet and accomplish the next. Step by step as we progress we receive wisdom and knowledge and we enhance our ability to gain added strength and power. 939 f 4 WORK MEETING I. (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 14 — Planning and Preserving Traditions Important to the Family Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, March 1964 Objective: To teach values through establishing worthwhile family traditions. As we think of teaching values through establishing worthwhile family traditions, the thought of love of one's country should be of great importance. Patriotism and love of one's country do not just happen. We must work in times of peace as hard to preserve and perpetuate our ideals as we do to save them in times of war. Every nation has its days celebrating events dear to the hearts of its people. These days are usually commemorating the culmination of ideals realized as a result of much work and sacrifice, and they become traditions in each family, as the days are observed each year in one manner or another. To begin in the family while the children are small to teach this love of country and its flag is important. In every home there should be a flag, the symbol of one's country, and it should be flown on every important day. Family traditions that help children know its value should be carried on throughout the year. Many nations have annual days of prayer and thanksgiving. America was not the first to proclaim such a day. Ancient Israel observed one 940 of the oldest thanksgiving celebrations, the "Feast of Tabernacles." The Lord instructed Moses to have the families of Israel gather together in holy convocation "... When ye have gathered in the fruit of the land." The families assembled in the open air and constructed booths — of "boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook." Here they would "keep it a feast unto the Lord," after performing certain religious rites and with prayers of thanksgiving. (See Leviticus 23: 39-41.) Thanksgiving is a family gathering day; one in which the traditions of the nation and the traditions of the family may be observed. The Lord has indicated that he is pleased when families gather together in the spirit of worship. A family who lovingly observes the traditions of its fathers enjoys an enduring relationship. To create or maintain a family tradition is to forge a link in a chain binding the members in a closeness of spirit that holds even though they are miles or continents apart. Many of these special family remembrances are connected with Thanksgiving Day. (See The Relief Society Magazine, November 1959, Editorial pp. 738- 9-) PT he 24th of July calls for other family traditions. Closely linked with love of one's country is love of one's religion and freedom of worship. What can families of today do to honor the pioneers who trumphantly fought the battle of the plains to find a place where they could worship in freedom without being molested? What traditions can be carried on that will be a way of teaching children to honor the pioneers of 1847? The first celebration was held in 1849. After the raising of the national flag, the band played, and the Nauvoo Bell was rung. 'There was a parade and a program, and every family "dined sumptuously" on fruits of the earth produced by their own hands. Latter-day Saint families all have some connections with the pioneers, either directly or indirectly. Whatever these connections may be, today's children should hear the pioneer stories whether they be of those coming in 1847, or at some later date. Each family has a member who was first to embrace the gospel who should be honored and remembered. 'There can be the raising of the flag and the ringing of a bell, and why not a pioneer meal produced in as far as possible by the family, with everyone helping? Pioneers shared whatever they had with their neighbors, and some Sharing, too, can be part of the July 24th tradition. Much has been written about Christmas traditions, and each famLESSON DEPARTMENT ily should develop its own special way of honoring the birth of our Savior. Traditions of Christmas are varied throughout the countries of the world, but they have a significance to families living in each land. These traditions are so well founded that many continue to practice them and make them traditions in their own families, even when they have left the country of their origin. The Family Hour can well be come a cherished tradition. Participation by each member of the family in the planning and programs of such events makes them memorable. Married children then establish this loved tradition in their own homes. Other traditions are built upon days of deep significance to Latterday Saint families. 'The blessing of a babe by father, followed by a family gathering and a review of blessings given babes in Bible times or to ancestors, emphasizes the importance of a name and a father's blessing. 'The day of baptism and the following confirmation should be set apart as the beginning of a new chapter in life. The account of the first person in the family to be baptized should be given in a way that will always be remembered. Priesthood ordination days and callings to various offices in the Church should be marked by family gatherings and special recognition. 'These are occasions when individuals being honored will receive encouragement for spiritual growth if given the Bible or The Book of Mormon or a subscription to a Church magazine, with a message of encouragement from the family. 


 Birthdays, of course, must be celebrated, and there will be annual family reunions. But some of the traditions that involve such regular happenings as Saturday cleaning of the house, shining of the shoes, and pressing trousers and dresses in order to be at one's best for the Lord's Day may make the strongest impression. What are your family traditions? What ideals do thev foster? Your answers will strongly suggest what your family will be twenty years hence. X LITERATURE @ Las eee America's Literature oye I — f 2 I J a. Lesson 46 — Willa Cather, Lover of Life (1874-1947) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 833-849) For Third Meeting, March 1964 Objective: To understand and enjoy the sustaining values of Willa Cather's world. None of man's major frustrations is more vexing than his bewildering inability to live — actually, in senses and knowledge and spirit — in any moment other than the immediate one. How helpless he is to recreate into a fully compelling truth even his own yesterdays, which once he lived and was, let alone those of another, which he has never known with such intimacy. None knows this better than Willa Cather, who writes:... Nobody can paint the sun, or sunlight. He can only paint the tricks that shadows play with it, or what it does to forms. He cannot even paint those relations of light and shade — he can only paint some emotion they give him, some man-made arrangement of them that happens to give him personal delight... 942 ("Light on Adobe Walls," On Writing, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1949, pp. 123- 124. Reprinted by permission of the publishers ). Though she broke with other worlds and values, Miss Cather created a high artistic integrity within her own. Her art, like her life, was one of intense dedication to principle, her highest being to honor humanity as she had come to know it. Through her art she simplified the clutter which is life until such truth shone through, and she did all — see, live, create — with uncompromising integrity. All her works exhibit such integrity. 'They are unified by the subtle tone running beneath the surface, by the inner spiritual values which are ever her true concern and which make her pages so unforgettable. Such an achievement came not by chance, but by exemplifying constantly, in her careful craft, her basic literary conviction that every fine story must leave its reader with a feeling of pleasure to be experienced over and over again in the mind, much as one can experience in the memory the perfume of flowers or a beautiful