[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 882 | Fiction | Rosa Lee Lloyd Generas ,r-tro>^.. : . - : . | ]
of the WIND Rosa Lee Lloyd CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the five children live on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui. Emma Lu, the eldest, has recently returned from San Francisco, where she graduated as a nurse and became engaged to a Sherman Grant. Margaret Lester, Luana's sister-in-law, who lives in San Francisco, is visiting with the Harringtons. She is an artist and plans to enter an art contest in which Luana is also interested. They plan to search for Bo, a twin, who has run away. Tutu put her knitting in the basket and rose from the table. "Let us have luncheon before the search," she said, quietly. "But, Mother!" Ben exclaimed. "None of us feels like eating. Make some sandwiches. We'll take them with us."' Tutu walked to the window and stood there for a moment, looking down the path that led to the highway. "ll help you, Mama," Emma Lu offered, as Luana took buns from the cupboard for sandwiches. "Shall I get a jug for punch? It's such a hot day." Tutu turned from the window. Her blue eyes were twinkling. "That won't be necessary," she said, pointing toward the path. "Look! There comes our little Bo. Home again. I thought he would be home by lunchtime. Dinnertime for sure." Luana dropped the buns and ran to the window with the others. Philip slapped Emma Lu's shoulder. "I'll be your monkey's uncle!"' he said. '"He's coming home on his own power!"' A sob caught in Luana's throat, as she watched Bo's lonely, dejected little figure trudging up the path. She glanced quickly at Ben. His mouth was grim and unrelenting. She reached for his hand but his fists were clenched. "Take it easy, Sergeant," she coaxed. "It took courage for him to come back so soon. Especially, when he knows he has to apologize to his classmates this afternoon."' Tutu, standing close by, put her hand on his shoulder. "TI remember when you ran away, Ben," she told him. "You were twelve, I think. You were angry because your father would not permit you to have a canoe of your own until you were fourteen."