[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 898 | Poem | Star- Wakened | Dorothy J. Roberts]
[Star- Wakened Dorothy J. Roberts]

This joining Of each to each by affection twined through The starry miles as tinsel through boughs. Frozen words are freed, fingers interlace, And loneliness is scrolled with jeweled light. Hands move across the loom of solitude and weave This caring into silvery lengths. Doors swing wide. Remembrance of a child is upon the world, A season of forgiveness, belief and wonder. 898 Star-wakened, the world again cradles The promise and the glory in its heart. The Relief Society Annual General Conference October 2 a nd 3,1963 Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer "The frequently repeated comment— "It was the best conference ever!"— was uttered with sincerity and conviction by countless sisters representing the leadership of Relief Society from many parts of the world at the conclusion of the 1963 Relief Society Annual General Conference. Sessions of this great conference were conducted in the Tabernacle on Temple Square on Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3. At the 9:30 a. M. Officers Meeting for stake and mission officers and board members, President Belle S. Spafford emphasized the purpose of the conference in her welcome to the sisters by stating, "... You are all here this morning motivated by the selfsame purposes, that of having your vision enlarged of the greatness of Relief Society and to receive instructions as to how you may better carry forward the work." As the proceedings of each day's sessions unfolded, those in attendance felt that the blessings of the Lord had so rested upon the participants that these far-reaching purposes were accomplished. Of particular interest to those in attendance at the opening session was the introduction of the Relief Society Advisors from the Council of the Twelve. Since the last Relief Society General Conference, in addition to President Joseph Fielding Smith, the First Presidency has appointed as Advisors to the Relief Society, Elder Harold B. Lee and Elder Marion G. Romney. President Spafford expressed gratitude for the wise counsel which comes to Relief Society from these Advisors and also appreciation for the great assistance received in the past from Elder Mark E. Petersen, a former Advisor who is now presiding over the West European Mission. Each of these Advisors addressed the conference— President Smith and Elder Lee in the Wednesday morning session and Elder Romney in the Thursday afternoon session. President Smith referred to the benevolent and charitable services of Relief Society since its humble beginning in the early days of the Church. He declared, "... We have seen this Society grow until it spreads over most of the civilized countries of the world. The good that has been accomplished [by it] in the care of the poor, care of the sick and the afflicted, those who are in physical, mental, or spiritual need, will never correctly be known... It is clear to see that without this wonderful organization The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints never could have been completely organized."' Elder Lee discussed responsibilities of mothers toward their homes and families, emphasizing the importance 


 of their teaching their children the proper way of life as found in the revealed gospel of Jesus Christ. Also a part of the opening session were the informative and interesting analysis of the Annual Report of Relief Society by President Spafford and her statement of Official Instructions related to the work of Relief Society. The roll call of stake and mission officers in attendance revealed representation from 367 stake and 17 mission organizations, with a total attendance of 3,464. Of historic significance was the attendance at the conference of sisters from such far reaches of the Church as Southern Australia, Samoa, Brazil, Uruguay, Peru, Mexico, Scotland, England, France, and Norway. Their understanding of the conference was made possible by simultaneous interpretation through earphones in the Spanish and German languages and through the assistance of individual interpreters in some sessions in these and other languages. Regardless of nationality or tongue, the spirit and messages of the conference penetrated every heart. Music for the opening session was impressively rendered by 301 Singing Mothers from the Layton Stake directed by Sister Loretta P. Johnson. The prelude music and organ accompaniment were furnished by Dr. Frank W. Asper. The 2:00 P. M. Session on Wednesday was a general session for Relief Society members and the general public.