[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 899 | Special Feature | An Army of Good Samaritans Hugh | B. Brown]
[An Army of Good Samaritans Hugh B. Brown]

President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency, as the principal speaker in this session, paid tribute to the way in which both the Relief Society, with relation to the Church, and the mother, with relation to the home, minister to the needs of human beings. He also challenged leaders and mothers "to teach our people to respect authority both in Church and State, to obey the law, and be made amenable to discipline." He concluded his inspiring and powerful message by 900 blessing the sisters in attendance and all those to whom they would return when the conference was over. He blessed the Relief Society sisters with courage, fortitude, and faith to continue to the end. The three members of the Relief Society General Presidency also addressed this session. President Spafford spoke on the divinity within Relief Society. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp stressed the need of self-confidence in effective leadership. Counselor Louise W. Madsen reiterated the divine commission of Relief Society as given by the Prophet Joseph Smith "not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls."' Sister Edith P. Backman, as a representative of the General Board, discussed the importance of charity being exemplified in the lives of Relief Society members. A combined Singing Mothers chorus of approximately 400 singers from the Mesa-Phoenix area provided inspiring music for this session. The chorus was directed by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen with Dr. Alexander Schreiner at the organ. The sisters participating in this chorus were from the Mesa, Mesa South, Maricopa, East Mesa, Phoenix, Phoenix North, East Phoenix, Phoenix West, and Scottsdale Stakes. Approximately 3,000 stake and mission leaders enjoyed the beautiful appointments in the Relief Society building and were warmly greeted by General Board members at a reception on Wednesday evening. The vision of Relief Society leaders relative to the current year's courses of study was enlarged Thursday morning through dramatic presentations given in the Tabernacle.