[Vol50 | December 1963 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work Meeting — Planning and Preserving Traditions Important to the Family Virginia F. Cutler]
President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp,  First  Counse 
,ouise  W.  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
Hulda  Parker,  Secretary-Treasurer 
Anna  B.  Hart 
Edith  S.  Elliott 
Florence  J.  Madsen 
Leone  G.  Layton 
Blanche  6.  Stoddard 
Evon  W.  Peterson 
Aleine  M.  Young 
Josie  B.  Bay 
Alberta  H.  Christensen 
Mildred  B.  Eyring 
Charlotte  A.  Larsen 
Edith  P.  Backman 
Winniefred  S.  Manwaring 
EIna  P.  Haymond 
Mary  R.  Young 
Mary  V.  Cameron 
Afton  W.  Hunt 
Wealtha  S.  Mendenhall 
Pearle  M.  Olsen 
Elsa  T.  Peterson 
Fanny  S.  Kienitz 
Elizabeth  B.  Winters 
LaRue  H.  Rosell 
Jennie  *R.  Scott 
Alice  L  Wilkinson 
LaPriel  S.  Bunker 
Irene  W.  Buehner 
Irene  C.  Lloyd 
Hazel  S.   Cannon 
Hazel  S.  Love 
Fawn  H.  Sharp 
Celestia  J.  Taylor 
Anne  R.  Gledhill 
Belva   Barlow 
Zola  J.  McGhie 
Oa  J.  Cannon 
Lila  B.  Walch 
*aOr'irjf'Y-^9 
Freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  action  with  boundaries  that  do 
not  infringe  upon  the  liberty  of  others,  are  man's  inherent  right — 
divine  gifts  essential  to  human  dignity  and  human  happiness.  .  .  . 
Generally,  there  is  in  man  a  divinity  which  strives  to  push  him  on- 
ward and  upward.  We  believe  that  this  power  within  him  is  the  spirit 
that  comes  from  God.  .  .  . 
^^ESiDENT  Hugh  B.  Brown,  after  expressing  the  attitude  of  the 
Church  on  the  matter  of  civil  rights,  declared: 
.  .  .  we  believe  that  all  men  are  the  children  of  the  same  God,  and 
that  it  is  a  moral  evil  for  any  person  or  group  of  persons  to  deny  any 
human  being  the  right  to  gainful  employment,  to  full  educational 
opportunity,  and  to  every  privilege  of  citizenship,  just  as  it  is  a  moral 
evil  to  deny  him  the  right  to  worship  according  to  the  dictates  of  his 
own  conscience.  .  .  . 
President  Brown  then  testified  eloquently  of  the  divine  mission 
of  the  Savior,  saying,  "We  bear  humble  testimony  .  .  .  that  he  will 
return  and  reign  personally  upon  the  earth." 
RESIDENT  Tanner  asked  for  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  saints  to 
be  with  him  in  his  new  calling: 
/  pledge  with  you  again  that  my  life  and  all  that  I  have  will  be 
completely  devoted  to  the  service  of  my  Maker,  and  to  my  fellow 
men,  always  with  a  prayer  in  my  heart  that  he  will  give  me  wisdom 
and  knowledge,  courage  and  strength  and  inspiration  and  determina- 
tion and  ability  to  keep  his  commandments  and  serve  in  a  way  that 
will  be  acceptable  to  him.  ...  7  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  that  I 
know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  who  gave  his  life  for 
you  and  me.  .  .  . 
At  the  close  of  the  conference,  President  McKay  left  his  blessing 
with  the  saints: 
This  has  been  a  great  conference.  Great  messages  and  glorious 
singing  have  made  it  so.  The  responsibility  with  us  now  is  to  carry 
the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  into  our  homes  .  .  .  be  true  to 
every  covenant.  Our  homes  are  the  seed  beds  of  faith  in  Christ  our 
Lord.  .  .  .  In  his  name  I  bless  the  members  of  the  Priesthood,  the 
entire  membership  of  the  Church  in  all  countries.  .  .  . 
903

CiiAMtikad^  Ou^^l^V^^ 
In  this  season  of  good  will  and  spiritual  blessings,  let  us  treasure 
the  love  and  the  traditions  that  bind  family  members  together 
in  purpose  and  protection  as  uplifted  and  as  steadfast  as  the 
evergreen  trees,  a  devotion  as  warm  and  glowing  as  the  star 
atop  the  Christmas  tree  -  symbolic  of  the  Star  of  Bethlehem. 
How  tender  and  lasting  are  the  memories  of  the  family  circle, 
a  circle  forever  unbroken  in  eternal  covenants,  though  time 
and  events  may  change  the  segments  of  the  circle  and  cast 
into  many  molds  the  individual  links. 
In  some  darkness  or  trouble  of  the  middle  years,  there  comes 
to  one  who  remembers  an  early  Christmas,  a  great  illumination 
of  the  verities  of  life  -  of  promises  given  or  blessings  delayed. 
Perhaps  a  grandfather  will  tell  of  a  Christmas  in  the  lonely 
hills  when  the  only  gift  for  the  children  was  a  newborn  lamb 
brought  in  from  the  stable,  as  small  and  watchful  as  those 
lambs  which  lay  in  shadows  of  the  Palestinian  hills  when  the 
shepherds  heard  a  glorious  new  anthem  from  the  heavens. 
Perhaps  the  father  in  the  home,  who  has  blessed  his  children 
with  the  light  of  gospel  teachings,  will  sit  near  the  Christmas 
tree,  by  the  lighted  fire  on  Christmas  Eve,  and  explain  to  his 
family  that  Jesus  came  not  unto  one  nation  alone,  but  his  glory 
shone  also  upon  the  American  Continent  ".  .  .  and  he  took 
their  little  children  one  by  one  and  blessed  them,  and  prayed 
unto  the  Father  for  them.  .  .  .  And  he  spake  unto  the  multitude, 
and  said  unto  them:  Behold  your  little  ones." 
In  the  after  years,  many  gifts  will  be  remembered  -  the  doll 
whose  hair  seemed  to  be  pure  gold,  the  little  bottle  of  perfume, 
fragrant  as  frankincense;  the  little  pearl  ring,  the  workbasket, 
the  yellow  camel  made  of  hard  candy,  small  gifts,  but  rich  with 
symbolism  of  love  and  thoughtfulness,  of  anticipation  and 
surprise,  and  lasting  luster.  Yet  the  long-remembered  gifts  of 
Christmas  -  the  portraits  that  will  never  pass  away  -  are  the 
evidences  of  spiritual  unity  in  the  earth  family  -  some  day  to 
become  a  heavenly  family.  The  spiritual  evidences  may  be 
slight  and  apparently  evanescent,  but  they  will  stay  forever 
upon  the  indelible  parchment  of  the  mind  and  spirit  -  the  tear 
that  fell  upon  the  grandmother's  cheek  when  someone  spoke 
of  Christmases  to  come,  the  mother's  thin  and  fragile  hand 
that  paused  uplifted  as  she  peeled  a  Christmas  orange,  the 
bowed  head  of  a  little  girl  buttoning  a  dress  on  a  doll.  Such 
music  as  the  Christmas  hymns  breaking  across  the  night  may 
long  be  a  comfort  and  a  blessing  in  the  years  to  come. 
-  V.  P.  C. 
904

QtoiMw  a/) 
Christmas  Seals 
The  National  Tuberculosis  Association 
A  MOTHER,  more  than  anyone,  must  be  aware  of  seasons  and  the  changes 
they  bring,  as  she  tries  to  guard  the  health  of  her  loved  ones. 
One  of  the  busiest  times  for  a  mother  is  the  "season  of  giving,"  the 
Christmas  season.  This  time  of  year,  people  everywhere  are  more  aware 
than  usual  of  the  needs  of  others,  and  are  ready  to  give  to  others. 
In  the  "season  of  giving"  the  tuberculosis  associations,  with  their 
Christmas  Seals,  offer  all  of  us  the  opportunity  to  give  to  others — as  mothers 
do — the  gift  of  better  health,  perhaps  even  the  gift  of  prolonged  life.  What's 
more,  the  Christmas  Seal  funds  collected  during  this  "season  of  giving" 
continue  to  give  all  year  long,  through  research,  health  education,  testing 
to  uncover  hidden  tuberculosis,  and  other  respiratory  diseases. 
When  a  mother  puts  warm  winter  clothing  on  her  children,  and  places 
Christmas  Seals  on  her  mail,  she  has  helped  safeguard  not  only  the  present 
health  of  her  children  but  also  their  future  health.  Other  children  suffering 
from  asthma,  bronchitis,  pneumonia,  or  influenza,  and  other  respiratory 
diseases  will  benefit  from  the  work  of  the  small  Christmas  Seals  her  hands 
place  on  the  gaily-colored  Christmas  packages  and  envelopes. 
By  using  Christmas  Seals  on  all  their  mail  during  this  1963  SEASON 
OF  GIVING,  mothers  everywhere  will  share  with  pride  in  the  progress 
achieved,  and  in  the  hope  that  TB  may  soon  be  stamped  out  and  all  respira- 
tory diseases  brought  under  control. 
Color  Scheme 
Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard 
Silver  the  clouds  in  the  cobalt  sky, 
Sapphire  the  lake's  cool  sheen, 
Jade  in  the  rushes  and  meadow  reeds, 
Silver  and  blue  and  green. 
Silver  the  snow  on  the  mountain  peaks, 
Indigo  shadowed  through, 
Emerald  ice  marks  the  waterfall, 
Silver  and  green  and  blue. 
905

Ramona  W.  Cannon 
Mrs.  Katherine  B.  Oettin- 
GER,  chief  of  the  Children's 
Bureau,  Washington,  D.C.,  re- 
ported that  in  1961,  the  year  in 
which  the  most  recent  statistics 
are  available,  no  State  in  the  U.S. 
had  as  low  a  death  rate  among 
infants  as  did  the  Netherlands 
and  Sweden.  The  lowest  rate  in 
the  United  States  was  in  Utah, 
twenty  and  three  tenths  per  one 
thousand  live  births. 
Mrs.  Helen  C.  Schreiber, 
Goldendale,  Washington,  and 
Mrs.  Marian  Valentine,  Tevares, 
Florida,  won  special  fellowships 
for  achievement  at  a  National 
Home  Demonstration  Agents 
Convention  held  in  Salt  Lake 
City  in  September  and  attended 
by  eight  hundred  women.  This 
program  is  the  "country  women's 
college,"  said  one  attendant.  Mrs. 
Schreiber  will  use  her  award  to 
study  programs  in  Indiana  and 
Missouri  to  help  young  married 
couples  in  home  management — a 
great  need  in  our  country,  it 
seems.  Mrs.  Valentine  will  study 
marketing  and  management  as  re- 
lated to  consumer  information. 
Miss  Sue  Ann  Godderidge,  of 
Smithfield,  Utah,  whose  father 
raises   Holstein   cattle,   and  who 
herself,  drives  a  tractor  and 
drinks  three  glasses  of  milk  a  day, 
was  chosen  American  Dairy  Prin- 
cess in  Miami,  Florida,  in  Septem- 
ber. She  will  probably  visit  forty 
States  and  several  foreign  coun- 
tries during  her  year's  reign.  Her 
attractive  smile  and  healthy, 
wholesome  look  are  pleasant  char- 
acteristics. 
Barbara  Ward  is  a  distin- 
guished British  economist  who 
has  spent  much  time  in  India, 
helping  with  the  economic  prob- 
lems in  two  hundred  and  twenty 
thousand  major  community  cen- 
ters, many  of  them  centering 
around  agriculture.  Having  re- 
cently returned  from  India,  she 
says  the  improvement  in  econom- 
ic conditions  in  the  villages,  after 
three  years,  is  most  impressive. 
Gladys  Erickson,  a  reporter 
for  Chicago's  American,  has  been 
honored  by  King  Paul  of  Greece 
with  the  Golden  Cross  of  the 
Order  of  Efpoiia  for  her  excellent 
published  articles  on  Greece. 
These  have  made  Greece  better 
known,  it  was  announced,  to  the 
world,  and  to  America  in  particu- 
lar. She  has  promoted  good  rela- 
tions between  Americans  and 
Greeks  and  has  helped  to 
strengthen  those  relations. 
906

KISS 
of  the 
WIND 
Rosa  Lee  Lloyd 
Chapter  6 
Synopsis:  Luana  Harrington,  her 
husband  Ben,  his  mother  Tutu,  and 
the  five  children  live  on  a  pineapple 
plantation  on  the  island  of  Maui. 
Emma  Lu,  the  eldest,  has  recently  re- 
turned from  San  Francisco,  where  she 
graduated  as  a  nurse  and  became  en- 
gaged to  a  Sherman  Grant.  Margaret 
Lester,  Luana's  sister-in-law,  who  lives 
in  San  Francisco,  is  visiting  with  the 
Harringtons.  She  is  an  artist  and 
plans  to  enter  an  art  contest  in  which 
Luana  is  also  interested.  They  plan 
to  search  for  Bo,  a  twin,  who  has  run 
away. 
Tutu  put  her  knitting  in  the 
basket  and  rose  from  the  table. 
"Let  us  have  luncheon  before 
the  search,"  she  said,  quietly. 
''But,  Mother!"  Ben  exclaimed. 
"None  of  us  feels  like  eating. 
Make  some  sandwiches.  We'll 
take  them  with  us." 
Tutu  walked  to  the  window  and 
stood  there  for  a  moment,  looking 
down  the  path  that  led  to  the 
highway. 
"Fll  help  you.  Mama,"  Emma 
Lu  offered,  as  Luana  took  buns 
from  the  cupboard  for  sandwiches. 
"Shall  I  get  a  jug  for  punch?  It's 
such  a  hot  day." 
Tutu  turned  from  the  window. 
Her  blue  eyes  were  twinkling. 
"That  won't  be  necessary,"  she 
said,  pointing  toward  the  path. 
"Look!  There  comes  our  little 
Bo.  Home  again.  I  thought  he 
would  be  home  by  lunch  time.  Din- 
nertime for  sure." 
Luana  dropped  the  buns  and 
ran  to  the  window  with  the  oth- 
ers. Philip  slapped  Emma  Lu's 
shoulder. 
"I'll  be  your  monkey's  uncle!" 
he  said.  "He's  coming  home  on 
his  own  power!" 
A  sob  caught  in  Luana's  throat, 
as  she  watched  Bo's  lonely,  de- 
jected httle  figure  trudging  up  the 
path.  She  glanced  quickly  at 
Ben.  His  mouth  was  grim  and 
unrelenting.  She  reached  for  his 
hand  but  his  fists  were  clenched. 
"Take  it  easy.  Sergeant,"  she 
coaxed.  "It  took  courage  for  him 
to  come  back  so  soon.  Especially, 
when  he  knows  he  has  to  apolo- 
gize to  his  classmates  this  after- 
noon." 
Tutu,  standing  close  by,  put 
her  hand  on  his  shoulder.  "I  re- 
member when  you  ran  away, 
Ben,"  she  told  him.  "You  were 
twelve,  I  think.  You  were  angry 
because  your  father  would  not 
permit  you  to  have  a  canoe  of 
your  own  until  you  were  four- 
teen." 
907