[Vol50 | December 1963 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be. Retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts]
the  October  Magazine  "A  Message  to 
Young  Mothers."  It  really  hit  home 
and  was  just  what  I  needed.  And  the 
story  about  "The  Farm  Cellar  of  Long 
Ago"  just  made  my  mouth  water  with 
delight,  and  as  usual,  the  cover  was 
lovely.  It  brought  a  lump  to  my  throat 
to  see  this  photograph  ("Autumn 
Leaves  on  a  Pool,"  by  L.  Paul 
Roberts)  and  it  gave  me  a  longing 
once  more  to  see  that  golden  autumn. 
— Mrs.  Rae  Woolf 
Anaheim,  California 
In  sixteen  months  it  will  be  our  turn 
to  go  home  to  Utah — after  about  four 
years  of  wonderful  experiences  here 
in  New  Zealand.  With  all  the  moving, 
the  homesickness,  and  the  usual  ad- 
justments, we  wouldn't  trade  these 
four  years  for  any  other  time  in  our 
lives.  The  wonderful  Relief  Society 
Magazine  has  followed  us  wherever 
we  have  gone,  and  its  pages  have  been 
read  and  digested  as  never  before  be- 
cause, as  with  all  things  of  great  value, 
this  labor  mission  has  taught  us  the 
true  worth  of  both  material  and  spirit- 
ual things.  Our  testimonies  have  grown 
and  we  are  thankful  to  be  members 
of  the  Church. 
— Elaine  Fluhman 
Henderson,  New  Zealand 
In  the  recent  splendid  September 
issue  of  the  fine,  helpful  Relief  Society 
Magazine  I  especially  enjoyed  the 
article  "From  the  Palace  of  a  Princess 
to  a  Place  in  Normandy,"  by  Claire 
Noall.  This  descriptive  article  is  very 
beautiful  and  interspersed  with  in- 
teresting history  about  the  locality. 
The  pictures  are  vividly  colorful,  and 
they  give  one  who  has  longed  to  travel 
a  clear  picture  of  the  Norman  country 
and  people.  Being  a  semi  shut-in  for 
years,  I  have  thoroughly  enjoyed  the 
Magazine. 
— Anne  H.  J.  Gebhart 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  would  like  to  express  how  deeply 
I  was  impressed  with  the  wonderful 
article  written  by  Belva  Barlow,  "Re- 
lief Society  —  A  Blessing  to  Young 
Women,"  in  the  August  issue  of  the 
Magazine.  Oh,  how  it  will  help  and 
awaken  our  young  mothers  to  the 
great  love  and  assistance  they  will  re- 
ceive from  attending  Relief  Society 
regularly. 
— Gudrun  K.  Shurtliff 
Ogden,  Utah 
Let  me  thank  you  for  publishing  my 
story  "The  Restyling"  in  the  Septem- 
ber issue  of  the  Magazine.  I  especially 
appreciate  the  art  work  that  was  done 
for  it.  It  really  enhanced  the  page. 
— Dorothea  J.  Neilson 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  appreciate  the  October  issue  of 
the  Magazine  very  much,  and  I  was 
especially  pleased  with  the  article  "A 
Message  to  Young  Mothers,"  by  Mary 
M.  Ellsworth.  This  message  could 
apply  to  anyone.  It  is  a  message  I 
need  to  take  into  my  life. 
— Mrs.  Helen  Johnson 
Jerome,  Idaho 
The    recipes   in    the   Magazine   are 
really    wonderful,    and    every    one    I 
have  tried  has  been  a  success. 
— Phyllis  Stewart 
Inglewood,  California 
I  have  read  and  appreciated  the 
Magazine  for  many  years,  but  never 
so  deeply  as  I  have  since  my  husband 
passed  away.  In  my  sorrow  and  be- 
reavement, I  have  received  much  en- 
couragement and  have  been  greatly 
comforted  so  many  times  upon  open- 
ing our  Magazine  and  finding  a  poem 
or  an  article  that  semed  to  be  written 
especially  for  me,  so  very  consoling, 
faith  promoting,  and  uplifting  they 
were. 
— Evelyn  M.  Lundell 
Benjamin,  Utah 
882

The    Relief   Society  Magazine 
DECEMBER  1963     VOLUME  50     NUMBER  12 
Editor     Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Associate  Editor     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager     Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
885  President  Hugh  B.  Brown 
887  President  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
890  Elder  Thomas  Spencer  Monson  Appointed   to  The  Council  of  the  Twelve 
893  An  Army  of  Good  Samaritans       Hugh  B.  Brown 
899  The  Relief  Society  Annual  General  Conference       Hulda  Parker 
905  Season  of  Giving  —  The  National  Tuberculosis  Association 
Fiction 
907     Kiss  of  the  Wind  —  Chapter  6       Rosa  Lee  Lloyd 
Generas  ,r-tro>^.. : .  -  :  
. 
882     From  Near  and  Far 
902     Editorial:   The   133d  Semi- Annual   Church  Conference 
904     Christmas  Over  the  Years       Vesta  P.  Crawford 
906  Woman's  Sphere       Ramona  W.  Cannon 
960     Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Christmas  Home -Inside  and  Out 
913  Cutouts  Tell  the  Christmas  Story 
914  A  Time  for  Enchanted  Christmas  Trees 
918  A  Lovely  Gift  —  Oriental  Silk  Panel       Betty  B.  Huber 
920  A  Golden  Candle  for  Christmas       Ardelle  West 
921  Make  Marzipan  for  Christmas       Bertha  Josuks 
922  Home  for  the  Holidays       Jane  S.  Tibbals  ana  Hazel  S.  Cannon 
Lessons  for  March 
930    Theology  —  Stewardships;  A  Review       Roy  W.  Doxey 
938     Visiting  Teacher  Message  —  "For  Unto  Him  That  Receiveth.  ..." 
Christine  H.  Robinson 
940    Work  Meeting  —  Planning  and  Preserving  Traditions  Important  to  the  Family 
Virginia  F.  Cutler 
942     Literature  —  Willa  Gather,  Lover  of  Life       Briant  S.  Jacobs 
948     Social  Science  —  Church  Courts       Ariel  S.  Ballif 
Poetry 
881     Song  of  Shepherds  —  Frontispiece       Leslie  Savage  Clark 
Salute  to  Christmas,  by  Hazel  Loomis,  886;  The  Need  of  the  Name,  by  Christie  Lund  Coles, 
889;  Prayer,  by  Gladys  Hesser  Burnham,  892;  Star- Wakened,  by  Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  898; 
Gifts  of  Gold,  by  Lela  Foster  Morris,  901;  Color  Scheme,  by  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard,  905; 
Christmastime,  by  Evelyn  Fjeldsted,  912;  Old- Fashioned  Thinking,  by  Beulah  Huish  Sadleir, 
947;  Astronaut,  by  Grace  Barker  Wilson,  955;   Past  Grownup  Sight,  by  Ida  Elaine  James,  958. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Chnsf  of  Latter-day  Saints  ©  1%3  by 
the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association  Editorial  and  Business  Office  76  North  Main-,  Salt  Loke  City  11,  Utah;  Phone  EMpire 
4-2511;  Subscriptions  2642;  Editorial  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2  00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c  a  copy,  payable  in  ad- 
vance The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  e)!;pires  No  back  numbers  con  be  supplied  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies 
will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  ond  new  address  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  Morch  3,  1879  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided 
for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is. 
enclosed.     Rejected  monuscripts  will   be.  retained   for  six  months  only      The  Magazine  is  not   responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts