[Vol50 | December 1963 | Page 907 | Fiction | Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 6 | ]
[Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 6]

Her voice was as gentle as a lullaby. ''I remember, too, how understanding and forgiving your father was when you came home before dark. He treated you like the prodigal son. He ran to meet you and kissed you." A muscle jerked in Ben's cheek. The lines around his mouth relaxed. "The little fellow looks tired," he said, with a catch in his voice. He stepped quickly to the door and opened it wide. "Aloha!" he called. '"'You're in time for lunch. We're glad to see you, son." Benjy ran past them all and grabbed his brother in both arms. "We'll have San _ Francisco hamburger!" he yelled. Bo stood still, looking at his family. A sheepish grin tipped the corners of his mouth, but Luana could see the effort he was making not to let the tears break through. He was different from Benjy. He kept his tears inside, where no one could see them. "Aloha!" he said, lifting his hand. Luana thought she had never known a little word to mean so much. It said he was sorry he had caused them worry; it told them he had found the great big world outside his home was not so fascinating as he had hoped; and it said he loved them all very, very much, even though he didn't know how to say it the way Benjy did. Soon there was food on the table — bowls of rice and poi; coconut milk and hot chocolate; thick slices of tuna fish from the 908 lagoon, and fresh pineapple cut through the middle and heaped with grapes. There was homemade bread for those who wanted it. And a big, round carton of cheese. "Try the cheese, Aunt Margaret,' Emma _ Lu = suggested. "Tutu gets it from a dairy ranch high in the mountains of Molokai." Luana smiled, as she watched Margaret take some cheese. She knew Emma Lu was curious to know if Margaret felt certain that food from Molokai was safe to use. "It's very good," she said, eating it with her pineapple and grapes. Ben leaned back in his chair, folding his arms across his chest. His eyes caressed his twin boys. "It's your birthday Saturday," he said. "Your thirteenth birthday. That is a big day." "We will have a party, of course," Luana said. "Shall we have a luau?" Ben pursed his lips. "How would you like a picnic? The kind Queen Liliuokalani went on when she was a little girl?" "A picnic!" Benjy yelled. "Welakahao!"' Bo's eyes perked up. "Boy!" he breathed. "TI like a picnic better than a luau on birthdays." Luana noticed that Tutu was pleased. It was she who had told them how Queen Liliuokalani had liked the picnics that had been introduced to the Hawaiians. "What is your picnic like?' Margaret questioned Bo. "What makes it so special?" "We take food up a valley where there are big hau trees with long loopy branches. We hide in the branches and play games. Emma Lu should take Toki — he would have fun!" "Then we have a ti-leaf slide down a hill,"' Benjy said. Ben laughed. '"Let's not tell Aunt Margaret everything," he said. "She'll find out when we get there." "She sure will,"' Phil said, winking at Emma Lu. "Better take plenty of soap, Aunt Margaret." "And some rubber pillows," Tutu added, her lips quirking. After luncheon Ben went to school with the boys. Emma Lu decided to visit with Millie Togo and her new baby. She left the house with Toki perched on her shoulder. "You must rest, Tutu,"' Luana said. "Remember Dr. Hartford told you that you must rest every day." Tutu smiled. 'I will rest, Luana," she said, "'but call me when Pixie comes from school. I want her to try her new sweater. She needs to wear something bright and gay. She has been moody, lately." "I know," Luana admitted, but she forced a smile as she looked at Margaret. 'Would you like to go through a pineapple cannery this afternoon?" she asked. "I'd love it!" Margaret answered. "But can we go to an art shop first? I need some supplies." "Why, sure!" Luana agreed. "We have some fine shops in KISS OF THE WIND Maui — all kinds. I'll take you to meet a very good art dealer — Mr. Okamura. We'll go there first — then to the cannery." An hour later Luana and Margaret were at the pineapple cannery. "Ben belongs to this association,' she explained, as_ they parked the car and walked toward the large white building. 'They take our entire crop. Most of our friends who owned plantations have sold out to the big companies, but Ben still holds out as an independent producer." "I know it's a big industry over here," Margaret said, "along with sugar." "Pineapple is the bigger," Luana said. ''When you hear the words cane sugar you think of other places in the world besides Hawaii, but when you hear the word pineapple, you think only of the Hawaiian Islands. It is as Hawaiian as the ukelele, the hula, or the surf-board. Here we are — follow this crowd of visitors with the guide." Margaret's eyes were luminous, as she entered the luxurious white lobby decorated with murals of "Spine" life in all its stages from cuttings to fruit. The guide told them to stop at the large attractive containers with shiny chrome tops and help themselves to glasses of the luscious juice. Luana saw Margaret watching the girl guides in their spotless white uniforms. "The prettiest girls in the world work here," she told her. 


 "Wait until you see them at the machines."' Minutes later they were fascinated, as they watched the machines automatically peel, slice, and core the pines. "Look at those golden circles!" Margaret exclaimed, as the pineapple slices cascaded down the chute, then separated into two streams of fruit. Girls in long rows, dressed in white uniforms and caps and long white rubber gloves, trimmed off the imperfections and sorted the slices according to size. As they walked from one part of the factory to another, Margaret was continually surprised. "No part of the pine is wasted," the guide told them. "This is where we can the tidbits that didn't form perfect circles. Over here, the cores are pressed into juice. The hard, tough skins are pressed to squeeze out pine sugar in syrup form." The guide flashed her white smile. "What's left of a pine after that,' she said, "is dehydrated and made into pine bran for livestock. Every time you have a soft drink or a piece of candy, remember that the citric acid in it is probably a by-product of pines. And remember, too," she smiled again, "about eighty per cent of the world's pineapple is packed in Hawaii." Miargaret gazed in wonder as she saw the colorful cans zipping along the conveyor belt. "Like watching the rainbow," she said, "fon a scenic railway." "Hach mechanical labeler wraps 910 and fastens the labels around the cans at the rate of a thousand a minute," the guide explained. When they reached the lobby on the return trip, they had another drink of the fresh juice. "Whenever I taste pineapple again," Margaret said, gratefully, "TI will think of the intelligent effort it took to produce it." "That's right," Luana agreed. "We would appreciate everything more, if we took time to realize that some dedicated persons gave years of effort to invent machines such as we saw today. And we should remember how men of vision nurtured the pineapples from little scrubs, until they became the luscious fruit we have today. Think of thousands of men like Ben, and his father before him, who knew how to plant and tend the pines, and when to pick them at just the right time for the canneries. It is so wonderfully inspiring. I am so glad to be a part of all this." "You have such a good life," Margaret murmured. "Ben and the — children. And sweet Tutu. What more can you ask for?" "That is right," Luana answered, humbly. ''What more can I ask for?" She bit her lip. How could she tell Margaret that her family needed so many things right now she hardly knew which way to turn. Ben needed new equipment for the plantation. Mike Togo should have a raise. He was such a valuable foreman they could not afford to lose him to the corporation. But she could not tell Margaret these things. It would sound as if she was complaining, and she knew better than to do that. Working and praying were the only answers. That was the reason she had given every spare moment day and night to complete her painting for the contest. She had to win it, she thought, with a little prayer. She just had to! It was nearly five o'clock when they arrived home, almost dinnertime. The sky in the west was flaming coral and amber. Margaret stayed in the garden to watch the glorious coloring but Luana hurried in to prepare dinner. As she went through the bamboo curtains on the lanai, she heard Pixie weeping. She was standing in the middle of the room with her head bent. Her face was covered with her hands, and her back was toward Luana. Tutu was seated at the little work table. The bright blue sweater she had knit for Pixie was in a heap at her feet. "But, Tutu," Pixie sobbed. "I only did it to make myself pretty. I wanted... Tommy Bryan to look at me the way he looks at Lissa Pyke. She has gorgeous blond hair...." Her voice faltered, "... And her teeth are pretty." Luana hurried to her and cradled her in her arms. "My baby," she crooned, "you are pretty and so sweet and precious." Pixie lifted her head. Luana stepped back, gazing at her in stark amazement. Pixie's hair KISS OF THE WIND had been bleached to a horrible brassy color. "Oh, no!" Luana gasped. Pixie, how could you!"' "It's awful, Mama. I know it's awful. But Kit and I thought it would come out like it said on the bottle — honey-blond." Her face puckered into tears. '"That's what I wanted to be, Mama. A honey-blond."' "And it turned out orange," Tutu murmured, sadly. "Bright orange!" Luana echoed. ''What shall we do?" "Look, Mama." Pixie wrapped a scarf around her head. 'This will cover it until it grows out. How long will that take?" *"About six months," Luana an- "Oh, swered. "Maybe if we shaved your head." "No!" Pixie moaned. "I wish I could die!" "You would still have the orange hair," Tutu said. ''What would Tommy Bryan say when he saw you lying there with that orange hair? I think a real, live Pixie, with her own brown hair could win his love more easily." Pixie's blue eyes pled with her Mother. "Help me, Mama. I don't want Daddy to see my hair. I know I shouldn't have done mH 2" "Anybody home?" Ben called from the doorway. He stared at Pixie. An angry flush came up under his tan. Luana drew in her breath. "Ben," she said, "'Pixie made a mistake. She is very sorry." "Go to your room," he said to Pixie. "I'll talk to you later." (To be continued) 911 CAMERA CLIX. NEW YORK CITY.