[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | October | Issue: 2 | Title: Relief Society Conference | Author: OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN,]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Tabernacle, Thurs-
day, Oct. 3, 1912, with President Emmeline
B. Wells presiding.
	The singing during the conference was
furnished by the Relief Society choir of
Granite stake.
MORNING SESSION.
	Hymn, “Hail to the brightness of Zion’s
glad morning;” prayer by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth; singing, “Scatter Sunshine.”
Loving and congratulatory address of wel-
come by President Emmeline B. Wells; elo-
quent and interesting response by Mrs.
Mary J. R. West; duet, “Truth Reflects
Upon the Senses,” Mrs. Green and Mrs.
Curtis.
	Reports of the Relief Society of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows: Ogden
stake, by Mrs. Sarah M. Taylor; Sevier
stake, by Mrs. Christina Sorensen; Deseret
stake, by Mrs. Mary M. Lyman.
	Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke in ap-
preciation of the work done by the Relief
Society. When the Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society, she said, he
could see further than we can see today.
Zion is growing and the Relief Society is
prospering, and the work will continue to
grow, Mrs. Smith urged the young girls to
dress modestly, as becoming to Latter-day
Saints; also spoke of arrangements having
been made for the making and supplying of
suitable clothing for the dead.
	Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox in an address
said in part:
	“It is a great blessing and privilege to be
living today—the day of fulfillment of
prophecy and of the dreams of great inven-
tors and discoverers. The present time is
the most glorious ever upon the earth. With-
out the work of the inspired discoverers and
inventors we could not today be enjoying
the blesings we now have. If they had not
had their great dreams and had they not
been inspired to work them out, think of the
advantages we should have been deprived
of today. Columbus was inspired to make
the sacrifices he did in discovering the
western country—the revolutionary fathers
and the soldiers suffered to make possible
the liberty of this beautiful land. We reap
the benefits and sacrifices of all of this.”
	Mrs. Wilcox told of the attention now be-
ing given to the subjects of health and of
the work being done by the state board of
health. She recalled that a prominent man
once said that he believed the time would
come when a normal child, born of normal
parents, would consider it a reproach to be
in ill health, and it seems that efforts are
now being made to bring about the fulfill-
ment of that condition. The Bible, she
said, “tells us that greater things hath no


[Column 1]
man done than this that he giveth his life
for his friend.”
	Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune gave a report
of the Relief Society in New York, and the
work it is doing.
	The benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Emily S. Richards.
	The afternoon session was opened by the
singing of “Zion prospers, all is well,” Dr.
Romania B. Penrose offered the prayer.
	President Emmeline B. Wells spoke of
the blessings that had been given to the
daughters of Zion. She advised all to do
their work, in whatever line it should be, to
the best of their ability, and to follow the
good examples of those who had spent their
lives in doing good for others.
	An address on “Education of Women,”
was given by Mrs. Sarah M. Stewart, who
said “Froebel says that the education of the
child begins with the grandparents. We ap- 
peal to the parents that the progress of hu-
manity may go on. A few years ago women
did not have the educational privileges that
men had; not until about the time of the
Prophet Joseph Smith did they receive any
kind of recognition. They first demanded
education and claimed the fact that the men-
tal powers of women are equal to men.
	“The highest and noblest ambition of a
woman should be to be queen of the home
and the mother of noble children. Walt
Whitman says, ‘It is great to be a man, but
it is greater to be the mother of men.’
	“Women reach their highest, noblest, and
best as wives and mothers, as homekeepers.
The home today, seems to be neglected. It
is a place where people eat and sleep, but as
a home it is far from ideal. The home
should be the center of all that is good, the
center from which radiates the intelligence
and glory of the world. The example of
parents will influence the lives of their chil-
dren for good or otherwise. The highest ed-
ucation is the education for parenthood. In
the past it was thought sufficient if the
mother was good and pure, but now it is
demanded that there be a perfect father-
hood. Idealize the home.”
	“Mrs. Stewart made a plea for the educa-
tion of girls that would fit them to be good
wives and mothers, that they might be pre- 
pared to put into their homes the ideal moth-
erhood. The best of our lives she said
should be put into our homes, into our work,
and that no stone should be left unturned to
make our homes the best of homes.
	Reports of the Relief Societies in the fol-
lowing stakes were given; Millard stake,
by Mrs. Adeline Smith; Jordan stake, by
Mrs Hilda A. Larsen; Salt Lake stake, by 
Mrs. Harriet B. Harker; St. Joseph stake,
by Mrs. Sarah A. Layton.
	“Count your many blessings,” was sung
by the choir.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams said in
part: ‘I am grateful that I am descended
from honest and true men and women, who
have laid down their lives for the truth for
which they stood. As Latter-day Saints our
lives are always on the altar. At any time
we are on hand to make the sacrifice, if it 
becomes necessary. The labors of the women
of the Church are labors of sacrifice. Sac-
rifice brings forth the blessings of heaven.
It is the doing for others which brings hap-
piness, joy, and consolation.”
	Mrs. Williams told of the ravages by dis-
ease in some communities and urged the
members of the Relief Society to do all in

[Column 2]
their power to keep away sickness by pro-
curing a pure water suply and freeing their
premises from anything that would have a
tendency to breed disease.
	Dr. Jane Skolfield said; “If we wish im-
proved conditions in sanitary and civic
affairs, the women must become interested,
because this work appeals more to them than
to men. In the past, the work that has been
done along the lines of sanitation, protecting
food suply, pure water, etc., has been done
largely by women. Dr. Skolfield urged the
women to band themselves together for the
bettering of sanitary and civic conditions,
and to use their right as enfranchised citi-
zens to help in these matters.
	The benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, and the conference was
adjourned for six months.
			OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN, 
							Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
