[Vol1 | October 1914 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL.
Conserving Our Resources.
With all Europe at war, with prices in our country steadily rising to unbelievable heights, with famine and pestilence sure to follow close on the heels of war, the women of the Latter-day Saints have much to do.
President Emmeline B.
Wells has published a call in the Deseret News for the sisters of the Relief Society to form companies and to gather up the fruit that is wasting in so many places and dry it for the poor in the winter season that will come.
What else may we do?
Many women in the East, in fact all over this land, are storing up flour, fruit, beans, dried corn, clothing, in short all that can be conveniently stored, for two or three years ahead.
Shall the sisters of our Society be less cautious and fore-handed than the women of the world?
Many of the sisters in Salt Lake City have bought one and two thousand pounds of flour, storing in in their small garrets for lack of proper bins, and they are putting up all the fruit that they can secure for a future possible shortage.
The spirit of conservation of all our resources, both within and without the home, is abroad. "Men's hearts are failing them for fear." There is no doubt that this war will bring much suffering all over the earth, but be ye not moved, for "the end is not yet." There may be many more such wars, and many calamities.
The Lord has blessed us with most bounteous harvests, 2 . this year, and this people should not waste their means nor their opportunities.
Amusement houses and department stores in this city are alarmed with the falling off of their custom this early in the season.
But the people have caught the spirit of rigid economy, and what with unsettled conditions in our own country, and wars abroad in the world, there is need for the most careful summing up of our resources, and of keeping a check on all lines of needless expenditures.
There is no occasion for fear or for excitement amongst this people.
At one time Apostle Brigham Young was returning from Europe when a great storm arose at sea, which found him whistling and singing in his usual cheerful mood, as he rolled about the upper deck.
Approached by one of the elders and asked why he was thus engaged when the rest of the company were on their knees in prayer in the cabins below, Apostle Young replied "I said my: prayers when it was calm.
I expect the Lord to take care of me in the storms." Thus, we should be calm, restrain all excitement and confusion, but we should go steadily forward in our efforts to lay aside all the supplies that are in our possession.
Many of our sisters live in country places, and they will feel it something of a hardship to take care of so much fruit and grain, for there is a surplus everywhere.
But let them study carefully ways and means to do this while sisters in the city should husband; their pennies to purchase supplies, and thus both in city and country we will be prepared for whatever may come.
And if the famine or hard times do not come this winter, these things will eat nor drink nothing, so that we may renew our stores from year to year, and go to bed at night with the comfortable feeling that we have at least done our duty.
Sisters, let us prepare for storms in times of calm and comparative peace, for this has been the advice of our leaders from the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and it is today the advice of President Joseph F.
Smith, and of our own Presidency of this Society.
October