Elder Reed Smoot Elder Bryant S. Hinckley
On Friday, February 14, 1941, the leaders of the Church and the high officials of the State of Utah and the City of Salt Lake joined the public in paying tribute to Apostle Reed Smoot, who died in St. Petersburg, Florida, Sunday, February 9. Services were held in the great Tabernacle in Salt Lake City and at the graveside in Provo, his native city.
Senator Smoot was no ordinary man. He was great in intellect, in character, and in his capacity to work. At the age of forty-one, he had accumulated a fortune, had been chosen an Apostle—one of the most exalted callings in the Church—and had been elected to the United States Senate—one of the highest and most dignified legislative bodies in the world. These are all major accomplishments. Thus he distinguished himself in three important fields of human endeavor—religion, politics and business.
He had neither a classical training nor the ornaments of oratory, both of which, in that day, were regarded as prerequisites for distinction in the Senate of the United States and as a high public official of the Church. Only two of the fifteen men, including himself, who were Apostles at the time he was chosen, survive him—President Heber J. Grant and President Rudger Clawson. All of the eighty-nine men who were in the Senate of the United States when he became a member of that august body are now figures of the past. It is interesting to recall that at the time he was elected to the Senate, Arizona, New Mexico, and Oklahoma were still territories. He served in the Senate during the presidencies of Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, Woodrow Wilson, Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover, and he was the confidential adviser of most of these Presidents.
He descended from a strong ancestry. His mother, Anna Kirstine Mouritzen Smoot, came from Norway. At the age of 18, she joined the Church, left her kindred and her native land and came to Utah, walking from the Missouri River to Salt Lake City, a distance of more than one thousand miles, and pushed a handcart all the way. That required both strength of will and great physical endurance. She was a woman of deep spirituality, of rare strength and sweetness of character. The Senator on many occasions has paid public tribute to his mother, to whom he felt greatly indebted for his achievements.
His father, Abram O. Smoot, second Mayor of Salt Lake City, came from Kentucky. He belonged to the aristocracy of the South. Abram O. Smoot was a stalwart among the great pioneers and colonizers of his day.
Senator Smoot had much to be proud of. At thirty years of age, he was the outstanding personality in Provo and was recognized as one of the leading business men of the State of Utah. Every enterprise he engaged in, and every institution with which he was associated, felt the vitalizing touch of a master hand. He had the rare ability to bring things to pass, to cut red tape, to move with a directness and precision toward his end, and to accomplish it.
Reed Smoot became recognized as the Dean of the Senate and was acknowledged as the best informed man in the United States on the affairs of this Government. All who knew him knew that he was a Mormon and respected him and his religion. There were no reservations about his loyalty to his country, his allegiance to his Church, and his fidelity to his God. He was sound to the very center; there was no semblance of sham, pretense or insincerity about him. His rise to eminence was neither spectacular nor miraculous. He won his way in the world by the sheer force of his character, his dynamic personality, his tireless industry, and his integrity.
Senator Smoot's phenomenal capacity to gather facts, marshall them, weigh them, and act upon them, challenged the admiration of all who knew him, and won for him a proud place among the workers of the world. He was keenly aggressive, but affable and obliging; easily accessible, but always attentive to business. He has written his name indelibly into the history of his country and has honored his exalted calling in the Church. Peace to his memory; the world seems lonesome without him.