Today's Challenge To Latter-day Saint Women Rae B. Barker
"And at that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins. "For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived—verily I say unto you... they... shall abide the day." (Doctrine and Covenants 45:56, 57)
A great drama is being staged, but strangely enough the writing has not yet been completed. However, the plan from beginning to end, the plot based on the conflict and struggle between two major forces—good and evil, the time and setting, the shifting scenes, the many and changing characters, all the composing elements to the final curtain were infinitely clear to the Great Author even before the writing began. The story, a true one dealing with authentic characters, is that of "a chosen people." We have an account of the first scene, which took place in the council in heaven, and of the characters who participated. Some characters were to appear in a much later scene, when they would usher in an era of light after the spirit of darkness had held supremacy in the world for a long period. This scene is spoken of as the "fulness of times." It progresses through a period which might be described as a prelude to "the great and terrible day of the Lord"—great, from the standpoint of unprecedented discoveries and inventions which could be turned to glorious living; terrible, if these identical accomplishments should be used to promote misery and human destruction. The Omnipotent Director laid the plan clearly and comprehensively before those who would enact it. We are taught that we were there to hear the reading of the plan. We believe each was given the opportunity to choose a role in harmony with one of the two great principles involved—eternal life through individual free agency, or salvation through the power of dictatorial coercion. In the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-one, we of this generation are the characters upon the stage. In the midst of the challenging conditions of the present-day world, what is our role in the preparation of a chosen people? Do you agree with Robert Updegraff when he says: "A generation belongs to those who know what to do with it. The people, the situation, the very times, serve those who understand and command them"?
In an effort to understand our day and our opportunities in it as Latter-day Saint women, it may be profitable to follow the method of the young Indian guide who stood before a group of tourists impatient to be on their way to spots of scenic beauty. The deliberate young guide climbed alone up the intricate trail to the mountain top and there carefully observed all significant landmarks on the unusual topography of the heavily-wooded area. Mentally, he charted his course with relation to important and interesting points, then descended to lead his party without disaster or loss of time through the treacherous country. We might see our individual responsibilities more clearly if we would look back through the periods of history and see in perspective the preparation that is necessary for a people the Father can call His—His, because they accept Him and follow Him; His, because they were chosen, perhaps, to fill an important assignment in His eternal work—chosen because they had earned this privilege; His because they continue to merit the blessing of being His. To review scenes already concluded may be an incentive for better performance of our own act in the great drama. Whether Jesus taught in person, by His recorded word, or through divinely commissioned representatives, the challenge He gave was always the same. Whether to the children of Judah, to the Nephite people, to His first followers in the new dispensation, or to us now, the challenge is still the same: first, to believe; second, to live; and third, to teach His Gospel. "In Me ye shall find life eternal" is a promise to all alike. The challenge, therefore, is to His daughters as well as to His sons, for the man is not without the woman in the Lord. Let us look back to that scene when the Nephite people were powerful upon this land. What were the conditions of their generation, and how did these immortal challenges serve a chosen people? The clash of the forces of truth and error had risen to a gripping climax. The much-looked-for day of the Savior's promised coming was close at hand, and around the actuality of this promise the conflict raged. The great majority ridiculed and said the time had passed, that the words of the prophets had failed, and that the joy and the faith of them who believed in His coming had been in vain. The satanic denunciations of the unbelievers rose to such a pitch that they set apart a day when all who believed in those traditions should be put to death, unless the sign should come to pass. Under such conditions, was it easy for those Nephite women to believe that Christ lived and to teach their children to continue to pray and to watch always for His coming? But their undaunted faith and the purity of their lives were rewarded by one of the greatest manifestations of all time. The resurrected Lord stood before them—His chosen people—and declared that because of them His joy was full. "So great faith," said Jesus, "I have not seen among all the Jews; wherefore I could not show unto them so great miracles." They did not understand all He had been commanded by the Father to speak at that time, but "their hearts were open, and they understood in their hearts the words He prayed." Among the chosen few who saw and heard and were blessed by the risen Redeemer were women with their little children. They were loved of the Master. He knew where their influence was strongest, for He told them to go to their homes and to ponder upon the things He had told them, and to ask in the Father's name that they might understand. His deep concern for the well-being of women is evidenced, for at that time he also said, "Pray in your families: that your wives and your children may be blessed."
In 1830 A. D., there existed a state of spiritual confusion. People generally had lost their way. Laymen and ministers, too, were loud in their denial of a personal God, and they said there would be no more revelation. Always that hour is darkest just before the dawn. When finally the revealed truth burst upon the world, was it easy to believe that the Father and the Son had visited the earth and had again spoken? Once more women were among the believers. They had faith to hear, and their hearts were open to understanding. They were undaunted by derision and persecution. They endured being driven from their homes, plundered, dispossessed of much that was dear. They patiently bore sorrow and suffering. It took great courage to reconstruct their lives and to train their families to conform to the new pattern of truth that had been given them. They were subjected to social ostracism. The trek West brought about a condition of geographic isolation. Economic insecurity made them keenly aware of their utter dependence upon a source greater than any human power. These three factors were effective forces in building faith and unity among the people; and the new way of life was firmly established with only a minimum infiltration of distracting or dissipating influences. There is no question as to how that particular generation met its challenge to believe and to live according to its new situations. Its heroic missionary work stands as everlasting evidence of its success in meeting the third challenge—to teach the reality of God's word. Great sacrifice was exacted of women as well as men. Jesus called His disciples from their nets and places of labor. In a similar spirit, when our Latter-day Prophet called his twelve to go to distant lands to spread the glad tidings, they rose from sick-beds, left stricken families and impoverished homes. If their wives had been women with weaker testimonies, they could have found cause for bitter criticism and selfpity. With the severe preparation of one testing situation after another, the generation of our mothers and grandmothers grew strong and resolute, willing to endure that it might be free to follow its burning convictions.
It is time now for the characters of this generation to ask how the present situation may serve us as we attempt to follow the instructions of our great Director. What is our preparation, and how well will we play our role? The world presents a stage such as only a few had vision enough to foresee. A little more than a century ago, new light came to the world through divine revelation. Since that time, the mind of man has been quickened. Accomplishments for our good and comfort outstrip all previous works of magic. The earth with all its wonders is giving up its secrets. The summation of the culture of all generations comes as a beautiful gem to adorn the lives of the people. No period can parallel this, when every woman may live as a queen. The fountains of knowledge are fairly gushing, and all who will drink, may. Surely, "the fulness of the earth is ours." Endowed with so rich a heritage, will it be easy today to believe, to live, and to teach life eternal? We can say with Goethe, "That which from our fathers' heritage is lent, we must learn it anew to repossess it." With prudent use, a heritage can increase in value. Through neglect, it may become tarnished. Waste or even complete loss sometimes occurs from following faulty advice or because mistaken judgment may lead one to goals of questionable worth. There are dangers confronting this generation which perhaps are not as obvious as the physical dangers which tested the people in earlier times. But they may be more insidious in their power to disintegrate the faith, weaken the testimonies, and dull the desire of the individual to choose the good life. Today, instead of social oppression, we enjoy the open hand of fellowship. Innumerable opportunities for learning may either make us more ambitious to learn or by excessive opportunity dull our ability to select knowledge which is essential to understanding the eternal plan of life. Today our environment is the accumulated wealth of all generations that have gone before. We cannot measure its possible power as an effective instrument either in the advancement or retardation of our eternal progress. By the right of our privilege to choose how we will use this wealth, lies the answer to the question, "Will we in our day meet our God-given challenge?" With the evidence of over a hundred years to prove the worth and soundness of the revealed Gospel plan, it still will be easy to believe only if our hearts are open, as have been the hearts of those in every era who have felt the Gospel's radiance. It will be easy to live if we never cease in our efforts and supplications to understand. Then it will be easy to teach, for once tasting so great a joy, there will come added joy in sharing it with others. And when the curtain falls on today's scene in the great drama of life, may it please the Great Author to say of His daughters in this day: "They were wise, they received the truth, they have taken the holy spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived. They are My Chosen Ones."