WOMEN'S PART IN THE CHURCH BEAUTIFICATION PROGRAM
Only At Fruit Trees Eva Willes Wangsgaard
Judith was walking to school alone. Her two sisters, Margie and Sally, and her brother, Artie, had gone early because they had to practice for the school play, but Judith had stayed to help Mother. The two and one-half miles was a long way when you were alone. She looked behind her for signs of company. Frieda Williams might be on her way. Judith remembered suddenly what Margie had told her: "Frieda says that she likes me better than she does you. Her mother told her she ought to like us both the same, but she can't." That wasn't exactly news to Judith, but it hurt just the same. Saturday when Frieda had come to play, and Margie hadn't been home, she hadn't stayed very long. And Judith had really tried to please her, too. "Let's play school," Judith had said, "and then we can practice our tables." "Gosh! I came over to play, not to study," was what Frieda had said. And when Judith had tried that game that Grandpa had taught her about hunting the flowers on the hill and seeing how many you could name, Frieda had said, "For goodness' sake! Quit showing off." So they had played "Guinny," but Judith had won, and Frieda had gone home angry. Margie said that Judith ought to let Frieda win, but she didn't know how to let down. Maybe she could miss the "guinny" when it was coming down from the air, and then it would only count one instead of five or ten as it did when you struck it a time or two extra. Or maybe if Judith took shorter steps when she measured Frieda's hit, she could make Frieda's score higher. But Frieda had let Judith pump her to town on her bicycle when they went to Primary.
Judith looked behind her again. There was the Williams' wagon coming down the road. The Williamses always drove their team and wagon, because they lived three miles from school, and there were five of them. They didn't always give the Rawson kids a ride, though, when they overtook them. Maybe they wouldn't this morning, either. Sometimes if one of the younger boys were driving, he would slow the team as they came near, but you'd better not try to get into the wagon or you would see how he whipped up the horses and went clattering off up the road in a whirl of dust. But today Joe was driving. Joe was different. He was kinder, and, besides, he was sweet on Margie, so maybe he would stop. There, he did, and Judith climbed in.
The Williams' wagon had three bows up with a cover over them. There was straw in the box, and the Williamses sat on that under the cover, but they didn't invite Judith to sit beside them. She sat in the back, out in the cold wind. Frieda's little brothers weren't like other kids Judith knew. They were always "smart-alecky." They said words that other children seldom said and did little mischievous tricks that were cruel and mean. Then they laughed at themselves and at each other in a cocky little way that said, "Ain't I smart?" They were acting smart now, just to rile Judith up. Judith got madder and madder, but there was nothing she could do. She couldn't even be heard if she yelled at them, what with their noise and the wind. She could hear how they giggled when they stopped for breath; the wind didn't carry their words away. She crawled to the back of the wagon, but she daren't climb out. They were going too fast, and she had her lunch bucket and her book sack. Just then they slowed to go over a bridge, and the ground sloped so that it was easy to slip out, so she did.
She walked up the road, her book sack over one shoulder and her lunch bucket swinging. She didn't mind walking to school, especially after the lift. It must have been more than half a mile. She wondered if the Williams' kids had missed her yet. They were slowing to go over Dry Creek. There, somebody was lifting the canvas. She wondered what they thought. She giggled, but suddenly she stopped. She'd probably done the wrong thing again. Nobody likes you to get the best of him. Well, she didn't care what the Williams' kids thought. She didn't care. Nobody liked her anyhow. Everybody liked Margie better. No, that wasn't true?Father didn't.
There was that night when Sally had slapped her, and there had been a loud fuss till Father had come into the room and asked, "What's going on here?" Sally had yelled with anger in her voice, "The little beggar spells my words as fast as Margie can pronounce them, and she doesn't give me a chance." Sally knew that Judith had only spelled two of them, and only those when Sally hesitated so long that Judith couldn't help wanting to give her a boost. Father had known what was the matter with Sally, who was six years older than Judith, because Father had stood puzzled a minute and then he had said, "That child's been held down long enough. You turn her loose. The next one of you who hampers her will have to answer to me." When he had left the room, he had taken Judith with him. He had had a long talk with her that night about responsibility. And he had said that she'd have to try hard to show consideration for other people, and to learn patience. "You might make it a matter of prayer. God knows the world has need of brains," he had said. She had felt old and solemn when he had kissed her good night and tucked her in. She guessed Father loved her a great deal. What else was it he had said? Oh, yes.... "It is only at fruit trees that people throw stones." But he had gone before she had found out what he meant.
And Artie liked her, too. He liked her to go to the field with him. Mother had funny notions about a girl working on the farm, so she wouldn't let Judith take a hoe. She made her take quilt blocks instead. Then Artie got lonesome walking down the long rows of sugar beets alone and grumbled because she sat under the poplar tree and sewed. He coaxed her to walk and talk with him. That was tiresome, though. At the bottom of the page in the speller, below Friday's lesson, was printed: "Count that day lost whose low descending sun Views from thy hand no worthy action done." Walking down the rows didn't leave anything to show for your afternoon, and the quilt blocks didn't get sewed. Still, it showed that Artie liked her.
And this year's teacher, Miss Snow, liked her, too. She was a stranger and hadn't taught Margie, so she didn't say as the rest of them did, "Why can't you be quiet and sweet like Margie?" She was nice to Judith, even when she finished her lessons too quickly. She just gave her something else to do or a book to read.
There she was at school. As she walked into the classroom, a bunch of kids yelled, "Hey, Judith! Did you get that fourth problem? Show us how." So as soon as she'd put her things away, she walked to the board and showed them. Most of them got it soon enough, but poor Luce didn't. Poor Luce couldn't get arithmetic. She couldn't even read very well, and she was older than Artie, too. So Judith gave her time to copy it before she erased it. Celinda didn't come to the board with the other kids; but when Judith was waiting, she saw her copying the problem, too. Judith heard Luce whisper to Celinda, "Judith's good, ain't she? I like her, don't you?" But Celinda said, "She's smart. She's just showing off."
Then the teacher called them to order and they couldn't talk any more. But Judith liked Celinda best of all the kids, and she wished Celinda would be nicer to her. Celinda was both smart and pretty.
After arithmetic class in the fourth grade, Miss Snow gave the class an assignment and started the work in the fifth grade. It was fractions, Judith noticed. Too soon, her hand was up. Miss Snow just looked at it a minute before she asked, "Well, Judith?" "I'm through," Judith said. "Bring me your paper," Miss Snow said. Judith did, and the teacher looked at it, and then just stood still again while Judith studied her and waited. "Take it to Mr. Baird," she said at last. Mr. Baird was the principal. The kids would tell Margie at recess, and Margie would carry it home, and there'd be the dickens to pay. Only bad kids were sent to the principal. "Run along," Miss Snow commanded, and Judith went.
Judith stood in the hall and thought. People were all so funny. Miss Snow was sending her to the principal for finishing too soon. And Mother got cross when Judith read at the churning or when turning the washer. Judith couldn't see what it mattered. The work got done just as well, and the fifteen minutes went lots faster. Yet all of them harped all the time about being studious and doing well in school. Well, she couldn't stand here all day; she'd better get into the office.
She knew the principal. He was Cousin Jonas, and he wouldn't eat her. Still, she was afraid. Cousin Jonas didn't like kids who got done too quickly. He thought quickness would be sure to lead to laziness. "I pity the bright girl or boy," he said every year at the exercises. He said that only those who had to work ever amounted to anything.
She came to the door of the office and went in. "Hello, Judith," said Cousin Jonas. "What is it?" "Miss Snow sent me," Judith choked, and handed him the paper. "Oh, yes. I remember that she spoke to me about you. How old are you now, Judith?" "Ten." "Hm...," he hesitated. "You're young enough as it is. Better try it though. Take this to Miss Snow." He wrote on a card and handed it to her.
Judith went back to the classroom, and Miss Snow read the card and then gave her a seat over by the window on the fifth-grade side. Judith beamed. She had wanted for a long time to try her hand at those fractions. She smiled at Mary Smith, but Mary turned her head and slid a little farther away in her seat. She looked back at the class she had left. Some of the kids looked up and smiled, but Celinda scowled and turned to Mary. They whispered and laughed and stole side glances at Judith. Then Celinda tossed her curly brown hair and looked straight at the teacher. Judith fretted about Celinda and wondered what she had done. She couldn't remember having done anything, but they used to be good friends.
At recess, she thought about the kids telling Margie about the trip to the principal, but that didn't matter now. Still, she was unhappy because Celinda wouldn't speak to her and had coaxed too many of the kids on her side. There were plenty of others, but Judith didn't think about that. She just worried first about Frieda and then Celinda, and then both together. What had she done?
School time was better. Classes were strange and interesting in the new grade, and before it could possibly be time, afternoon recess had come and gone, too. When school reassembled, Miss Snow said, "Mr. Baird has given us permission for the Halloween party. You may choose your committee now. One group will be enough. You may name three children and vote on them. The one receiving the most votes will act as chairman. The others will be helpers."
So the children began to think about names. Judith said, "I nominate Celinda," and Miss Snow wrote the name on the front board. Somebody named Judith, and the teacher wrote that next. Then a fifth-grader named Billy, and the nominations were over. Teacher let them vote by putting up their hands, and when the votes were all counted, Judith was a long way ahead.
Celinda stood up. "I don't want to be on the committee," she said, and flopped back into her seat. Miss Snow stepped forward. Judith saw that "I'll stop this nonsense" look on her face, and she thought quickly. She too stood up. "Please, Miss Snow," she said without even asking for permission, "May we meet right after school?" Miss Snow looked long and steadily at Judith, then suddenly she smiled, and Judith knew she understood. "I think that would be fine, Judith," she said. "Billy and Celinda, stay after school a few minutes tonight." Then she called the "paper passers" for spelling.
The fourth-grade lesson came first, and Judith had time to think. She knew now what was the matter with Celinda. She knew, because she had felt that way so much last year when all the kids had flocked around Celinda, and the teacher was always holding her up as a shining example. But Father had talked to her about that and had helped her a lot. Father said that all human traits could be helpful. He said that if you were jealous of a playmate and thought mean things about her or acted mean, you just got in the way of both of you. But if somebody got some honor that you expected or wanted very badly, then if you thought how nice it was for your rival and were pleasant and just worked harder to do better yourself. Well, then, she'd have to work harder to try to keep ahead, and you'd both grow.
Judith knew why Celinda had said she didn't want to act on the committee, too. Celinda did want to, Judith was sure. There was that time when Sally had told Judith she wouldn't take her to the Primary party. So when Mother had called Judith in to get ready, Judith had said, "I don't want to go." She had thought that Mother would say, "Why not?" Then she would get a chance to tell her about Sally, and Mother would make Sally promise to be nice to Judith. But Mother had just said, "All right. I won't clean you up till Father is due. Run and play." So Judith had had to pretend that she really hadn't wanted to go. She waited for Sally to speak, but she hadn't, and Sally, Artie, and Margie had all gone and left her to play alone all afternoon. The thought that they would think of her and bring her some candy from the party had kept a little hope burning the whole time. But when she saw them returning and ran to meet them, none of them had thought to bring her anything. So, young, she had learned that it doesn't pay to hurt yourself in the hope that you can make someone else feel sorry. They so seldom do. They seldom think about you at all, unless you are in their way somehow. So Judith didn't want Celinda to try that. She wondered, though, if Celinda would have reconsidered by after-school time. She thought she would?if no one reminded her, so she'd have to play the act out.
When school was over, the committee met. Nobody said anything about what Celinda had said. They just went quickly on to talking about the party. They soon had all the plans made: the place, the time, the games and the picnic. They were to assign the picnic tomorrow.
It was later than usual to be walking home. Judith knew she had better hurry or Mother would worry. Margie would carry the message about the committee meeting, so Mother wouldn't be cross; but the sun was almost down. Soon the air would take on that purple look. Judith had such a happy little feeling inside her. Far above the gold and pink and scarlet of the sunset was a little pond of blue with one large cloud and several smaller, whiter ones floating smoothly across the sky, looking for all the world like the old drake on the pool at home followed by the ducks on a blue October evening. The frogs had begun their trick of shaking the little sleigh-bells in their throats, and all the farm wagons were rolling homeward. None of them were going Judith's way.
Judith didn't have anything to worry about. It wasn't true about none of the kids liking her. She had thought too much about the ones who didn't and the way they behaved. Sometimes, even when playmates acted as if they didn't like you, they really did. Suppose some of them didn't. Some people don't like winesaps, and they're perfectly good apples anyway. There was nothing the apples could do about it. Thinking about apples made her think of what Father had said that night in the bedroom: "It's only at fruit trees that people throw stones." Judith smiled. She knew now. And it was the ones closest to the fruit who threw the sharpest stones.
It was a lovely evening. The kids whom she hadn't even thought about had liked her well enough to make her chairman of the committee, Celinda was going to work with her, and Mother wouldn't be cross about the visit to the principal. She'd be glad, instead. Why, today had been a grand day?just perfect.