The The Making of Personality Bliss Carman By Claire Stewart Boyer HE Making of Personality" by the late Bliss Carman, American poet and author, is a poetic yet practical book on the development of personality. "All of life," he says, "is a mere setting for the infinitely intense and enthralling drama of personalities." Making the most of ourselves is the end to which we were created, therefore it is our main business to understand the nature of personality, to appreciate its possibilities and to develop it. Personality is threefold in composition: physical, mental and spiritual. Definite training in morality, intelligence and physique is the plan of procedure he recommends. Inasmuch as we both get and give our impressions of personality through its physical expressions, it is natural that the physical side should be emphasized. The making of personality begins with learning to breathe and move. Many people breathe improperly and grace of movement is rare among civilized peoples. POE is an ideal of personal culture and can be achieved. It begins with good posture and completes itself in graceful, rhythmical movement. The best standing position is one in which the weight is upheld and fore-carried over the ball of one foot while the other foot is dropped a little back, resting lightly to help balance and ready to swing forward at need, the knees being slightly flexed and never thrown flatly back. A distinctive requisite of good living poise is that the weight of the body should be carried lightly, with elation, with spirit, with elasticity. The habit of good motion gives us greater ease and efficiency for work. We must be able to stand firmly but unrigidly as the trees stand in the wind; we must be able to move without thought or hindrance as animals move. A perfect foot is the beginning of beauty as a fine caste of the head is its crowning attribute. Our entire symmetry and poise and vigor depend largely upon our development and use of our feet. Mental and spiritual demoralization result from hurting feet. The sorcery of the hand is also THE MAKING OF PERSONALITY revealed. There is love in the voice, understanding in the eye, but in the hand there is a touch of sympathy out of which human relationships are made. [* mental development the value of instinct and the proper use of reason are important factors. Instinct would make us lords of ourselves instead of slaves of fashion. Reliance upon instinct relieves one of self-consciousness, of worry; it lends distinction and charm to any personality. Instinct pronounces judgment on the value of opinion and the worth of experience. Reason should be the pilot of our lives, to keep us from extreme winds of passion and wayward tides of thought. S PIRITUALITY is recognized by personal vibrancy. The person who is in tune with the infinite, whose soul is chiefly concerned with goodness, sends out waves of spirituality to his fellows, which they recognize. This personal vibrancy is more powerful than beauty, more effective tthan intelligence. Only those who have responded to life's griefs and raptures are mellowed 663 instruments from which the music of life may come in spiritual strains. Love of Nature and appreciation of the fine arts also intensify the personal tone. One of the most delightful touches of spiritual culture is good manners. To live without manners would be as detrimental to the soul as it would be to the body to live without exercise. And finally joy must be nurtured in the soul. Genius is the spontaneous coordination of inspiration, aspiration and execution; it requires for its perfect development the most harmonious culture of the spirit, the intelligence and the senses. He is master of his world who can both plan and achieve, who keeps his plans within bounds of the achievable and brings his achievements up to the requirements of his plans. "He who espouses perfection Must follow the threefold plan Of soul and mind and body To compass the stature of man." In a symmetrical cultivation of all our powers, in a balanced exercise of all our faculties the treasure of personal happiness is likely to be found.