Dahlias to Love By Harrison R. Merrill abouts, Mr, J. P. Fugal, of Pleasant Grove, Utah, brought a more or less shriveled up little tuber home to his wife. She placed it tenderly in a flower pot and nursed and cared for it until it grew up into a rather delicate plant which later flowered. Whether it was because the dahlia seemed like an orphan in need of love or whether she was intrigued by the flower I do not know, but the fact remains that for a fifth of a century Mrs. Fugal has been growing and loving dahlias. For much of that time, on account of her skill, her constant boosting of the plants, and her willingness to assist others to grow the gorgeous flower, she has been called "The Dahlia Woman." OD cists, | years ago, or thereWith an eagerness born of devotion to a cause, she has combed the dahlia gardens of the United States and Canada until this fall she reveled in a garden of dahlias which contained more than two hundred varieties of blossoms ranging in size from the dainty little sports with varigated petals and delicately molded pom poms to gorgeous old Chang, a foot in diameter, Bashful Giant, an immense flower of delicate apricot shade, and Jersey Beauty, which raised its gorgeous head eight feet and four inches above the soil from which it sprang. Mrs. Fugal has paid as high as fifteen dollars for a single bulb, but she has loved all sorts, and finds place in her precious garden for any dahlia that reveals any sort of quality of form, coloring, or size, although she isn't satisfied with size alone. The big dahlias must also be refined: and delicate if they are to find place in her affections. What began as a mere pastime has been transformed from a hobby to a life's work, almost. During the twenty years since Mrs, Fugal got her hands on that first dahlia tuber, she has reared a family, has seen several of them graduate from Brigham Young University, at Provo, with Bachelor's degrees, and has celebrated the weddings 'of both girls and boys. While she has been engaged in growing refined and mighty dahlias she has also been engaged in rearing refined and mighty children. A SON thirteen years of age is now growing dahlias with all the avidity of his mother. This year he had a splendid garden rivaling in beauty his mother's. They work together like two great lovers of one great cause. Of course, Mr. Fugal is brought into the picture when the hard work is to be done. He says his wife must have grown more than two tons of tubers last year. He ought to know, she says, for he carried them all out of the garden into the cellars. This year he groans—pleasantly, be it said—under the knowledge that she will have -at least three tons of tubers. Since these tubers sell from fifty cents or more each to a dollar or so a dozen, Mr. Fugal feels better about his wife's hobby. Last year the half acre or so of ground produced about $500 in cut flowers and tubers. That was not all clear profit, however, as Mrs. Fugal was continuing her combing of the 646 RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Photo by W. P. Cottam MRS. J. P. FUGAL IN HER DAHLIA GARDEN dahlia gardens of the country and paid out $150 or thereabouts for choice tubers from prize gardens. "T've heard people say," Mrs. Fugal said, "that dahlias of the large and choice varieties cannot be grown successfully in our Utah valleys. To such people I merely wish to say that they are mistaken, Come with me." She led Dr. Walter P. Cottam and me over to the end of her garden and stood beside a huge dahlia. "Here's a ruler, measure us," she said smiling. We did. The plant stood eight feet and four inches in height—a prodigious height for a dahlia. We measured some of the blooms. There were not a few but many measuring ten inches in diameter, "All dahlias need in Utah is plenty of sunshine, plenty of water, and some good fertilizer," Mrs. Fugal declared. "We use for fertilizer litter from our coops. I have found nothing better." ERE'S a hint from her as to how to care for the tubers. After the first frost cut the stalks off six or eight inches above the ground and leave the tubers for two or three weeks if the frost doesn't strike down too deep. Then dig them and place them in a box of sand—she likes the sand moist—and keep them in a cool place—as near to freezing as may be, safely. That's all. In the spring set them out to sprout, cut them apart, being careful to leave a good tuber with each eye, and set them out to grow. Mrs. Fugal has been instrumental in establishing a number of dahlia gardens. In fact, she has charge of flower culture for her ward in the Relief Society and is kept busy giv- DAHLIAS TO LOVE 647 ing talks and instructing people in loves dahlias and as a result she has the art of growing dahlias. She dahlias by the hundreds to love. Ih. Photo by Cottam A BOQUET OF LOVELINESS Santa Claus by Adoption By Silas L. Cheney T any other season of the chaotic whirl of snowflakes filtering year Dr. Dever would have thickly through the dusky gray atbeen oppressed with a feeling mosphere. But since it was the of melancholy as he sat alone by his twenty-fourth of December he office window and gazed upon a_ smiled as he gazed at this pregnant 648 promise of a Merry Christmas. Even the fact that he waited for patients instead of having patients wait for him was in itself reassuring as it betokened the prevalence of the spirit of good will which led people to think and plan for the happiness of others rather than for their own personal welfare. "Fine! Fine!" he exclaimed as he pressed his well-formed, sensitive hands together and lay back in his chair with closed eyes to enjoy the luxury of visions that were crowding upon him. A door opened and closed followed by the firm, brisk tread of someone in the outer office. "Must be an urgent case," Dr. Dever told himself as he arose hastily and stepped into the waiting room. He stood non-plused at sight of the large, handsome, darkcomplexioned man before him.. The face was strange, yet familiar, causing him to hesitate before committing himself to either, "What can I do for you?" or "Why, hello, old chap! How are you?" The visitor's eyes expressed the silent amusement he enjoyed at the momentary chagrin of the other. "Bet you 'can't guess," he said. Then gradually his features relaxed into a broad grin. "Tom Richardson!" exclaimed the Doctor. "Well! Well! When did you arrive in town? 'You certainly have changed since the last time I saw you. It's more your fault than mine that I didn't know you." "My fault did you say? You're up to your old trick of passing the buck, and as usual I'm the goat. Yet I confess you've aroused my curiosity. Just how have I changed, may I ask?" "Well, you are rather more dignified and sophisticated. You see RELIEF, SOCETY MAGAZINE those splotches of gray about the temples tone down your characteristic schoolboy's complexion giving you a rather distinguished appearance," "Distinguished? That's a good one! Perhaps I've changed but you haven't. You're just as flattering as ever. Still I may have a certain air of distinction if, as some claim, it is acquired by either enjoying or suffering unusual experiences. To this I plead guilty. I've endured hell for the last two years. Jove! But I wish I'd never met that cousin of yours, Ross. She has certainly proved the joy-killer for me." "T'm indeed sorry to hear that. I understood your difficulties were in: the nature of a misunderstanding which a little time would serve to explain and erase." "T thought so, too," replied Tom, "but have been sadly disillusioned, for during all the months of our separation she hasn't made a single advance toward offering an explanation." "And how about you? I presume you have been doing everything possible to bring about a reconciliation?" "T've been waiting, patiently waiting." "Then there have been no advances on either side apparently. Have you ever gone to see her?" "No. Why should I? Goodness knows she has made me suffer enough personally, socially, and professionally to make me disinclined to add to it needlessly." "T suppose you are aware that she is living in this city?" "Yes. I was told of her moving here a short time ago, but haven't her address if that's what you mean." "T'll be glad to give it to you," said the Doctor reaching for his SANTA CLAUS © memorandum book. "I just saw her the other day and had quite a talk with her." Tom held up his hand in warning. "Never mind the address. I don't wish to know it. You see I'm subjected to moments of weakness when I'm afraid I so far forget myself that I would crawl to her on my knees if only I knew where to crawl." Dr. Dever shook his head slowly. What could be done to overcome this stubborn, false pride which made of little domestic troubles a barrier to happiness? After a pause during which each was absorbed with his own thoughts, the Doctor laid a hand on his friend's knee saying quietly: "Tom, it ought not to be impossible for two who love each other to meet on common grounds of sympathy and understanding at such a time as this. Why nct observe this day in the true sp'rit of Christ by manifesting a willingness to forgive and forget." "What do you recommend?" Tom asked dryly. "Knowing Eva as I do I'm ready to confess that I cannot imagine her commiting wilfully any very grievous offense. But she has one fault; she is a slave to her pride. I have never known her to be the first to humble herself before anyone. And I think she would rather die than do so now. Yet she loves you, Tom —she wants you. If you would go to her as you did in your sweetheart days with the suggestion of letting by-gones be by-gones, I am oe your troubles would be at an end." Tom sprang to his feet, a dark scowl marring his handsome face. His eves snapped challenginely and the muscles about his mouth grew taut and hard. Dr. Dever knew what that meant. He had seen him BY ADOPTION 649 wearing such an expression a few times and inevitably it had spelled disaster for the opposition. "You want me to go to her? Never!" Tom exclaimed. "The trouble is I've already gone too often and she's come to expect it. Our adjustments have ceased to be on the basis of compromise. I give and she takes, that's the size vf it. It's just too humiliating for endurance." H® paced about nervously for a minute before resuming his seat half-ashamed, half-defiant. The snow was still falling heavily while from the street sounds of throbbing motors, honking horns and the shuffling of rubbershod feet upon the snowy pavement evidenced that business was still running at its highest. "Look at those lucky devils down there,' Tom muttered after awhile. "They seem to have Christmas cheer stuck about every available portion of their anatomies. Jove! How I'd like to play Santa Claus for my two boys again, though perhaps I never shall. I don't mind telling you that my purpose in coming here is to commence divorce proceedings immediately.: "Ts that so?" asked the Doctor blankly. "Yes," rejoined Tom. "Tomorrow you'll present your wife with a box of chocolates, and possibly some jewelry, while my season's greetings to the wife, coming perhaps a few days late, will be a suit for divorce. Quite the irony of fate, isn't it?". There was no reply. The Doctor sat looking out of the window moodily. If he could only hit upon a plan there might still be hope of preventing a most unfortunate and disastrous occurrence, As he 650 groped about for ideas he was elated by a sudden inspiration which winged its way into his consciousness. With forced nonchalance he asked: "And so you would like to play Santa Claus, would you, Tom?" "Would I? Why there is almost nothing I would rather do. To see my boys' eyes grow large with expectancy and then to have them go into paroxysms of rapture over the gifts presented them have afforded me moments of the purest happiness I think I have ever experienced." "Yes, I know, remember I have kiddies also. Certainly if I were you I would not forego Santa Clausing tonight." Tom looked at him coldly. "I thought I had made myself clear," he said. "Now, old boy, don't go jumping at conclusions. I only intimated that you might be a Santa Claus meaning, of course, a Santa Claus by adoption." "Guess I don't follow you," declared Tom. "I know I'm dense but never suspected before that I was impenetrable. Do you mind explaining?" "Here's the proposition in a nut shell: you want to play Santa Claus but you lack the children. Well, there are hundreds of children in this city who are destined to miss a visit from that venerable old man since they have no father. Why not act as proxy and bring Christmas cheer to a number of unfortunates as well as to yourself?" Tom's eyes gradually brightened as by degrees the uniqueness of such a plan dawned upon him. "Well, by Jove! If it isn't the old brilliant intellect on the job as usual. Just furnish me with three or four appropriate addresses and I'll certainly try out this idea of yours—this Santa Claus by adoption as you call it." RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE The Doctor beamed with pleasure. "Good for you!" he exclaimed. Then glancing at his watch he said, "Four o'clock. We must get busy. Now let me see—supposing you make a trip to toyland while I dash out and get you a classy costume—beard, mask, and all that. Say, but won't it be rich to see you dolled up? Ha! Ha! Meet me here as soon as possible, then we'll run _ out to the house to see the wife and have dinner, after which you can do your stuff." "Agreed." Tom chuckled as he swung out of the office wearing a boyish grin. OUR hours later a closed car drew up in front of 36 Bond Street. After some awkward twisting and pulling Santa Claus alighted 'and proceeded to a little dilapidated house in the rear. The greeting he received from several ragged and half-starved Italian children, cheered and gladdened him He could not understand what they said but their actions spoke a language world-wide. He left with his pack considerably lighter. The next call filled him with strongly conflicting emotions. He was thrilled by the happiness brought to three little fatherless children with the bluest and most astonished eyes he had ever seen and an emaciated mother who plainly was scarcely able to keep the wolf from the door. But at the same time he was sobered by a keen realization of what right-minded people must think of a man who would willingly desert his wife and helpless children as this one had done. Looking at his card of directions he discovered the next address was 128 Hazel Street. This took him to another part of the city, and as he drew up before a small though SANTA CLAUS well-cared for bungalow he was mildly astonished. "Looks as though I'm advancing in society," he thought. "Well, there goes, the water's fine; might as well get wet all over." He rang the bell and waited breathlessly as he heard little feet running across the floor. The door was opened with difficulty, then Tom stood dumbfounded as he gazed into the eyes of his four-yearold son, Bobbie, who hopped about clapping his hands with glee and crying at the top of his voice, "Oh, Tommy, come quick—it's Santa Claus!" So it was a trick. Well he would certainly get even with Ross for this. But Jove! How good it was to see the kiddies. It would be hard but now that he was here he intended going through with the makebelieve. Changing his voice to avoid discovery he asked where their mother was. "T don't know," spoke up Tommy. "She just went out somewhere." If he hurried perhaps he could get away before she returned. "You've been mighty fine little boys all year," he said. "That's why I've come to see you. Now what can I do for you? What do you want more than anything in the world? If I haven't it with me I'll try to send it to you." Tommy, the eldest, became suddenly thoughtful and his voice plaintive as he said: "I want my Daddy to come back." "Me too," piped up little Bobbie. "T asked Heavenly Father to send him but maybe He can't find him 'cause Daddy's not come yet." Tom stood irresolute trying desperately to control his feelings, then abandoning the struggle he tore the mask from his face and sweeping the boys into his arms sobbed conBY ADOPTION 651 vulsively, "My little boys! My darlings!" For a moment the children seemed bewildered then Tommy, followed closely by Bobbie, flung his arms about Tom's neck crying, "Daddy! Daddy!" It was this tableau that greeted Eva's vision as she opened the door. "Tom!" she cried in a trembling voice. Slowly he disentangled the boys' arms and slid them down carefully to the floor before looking at her. How charming—how lovely she was. He could scarcely restrain himself. Striving hard for control he said, "I'm sorry to have troubled you, Eva. I shall try not to have it occur again," and with a look of misery he started for the door. "Tom—Tom, you're not going— you're not leaving me again?" she was at his side tugging at him. Seizing her in his arms he crushed her to him. Moments passed during which they became conscious of strains of music, faint at first but growing clearer and clearer until they could catch the words, "Silent night, Holy night—" "The carolers," "Beautiful, isn't it?" "Yes," he replied simply. "There is beauty all around when there's love at home," and bending over her until their lips met he kissed her tenderly, reverently. She did not answer but her large, expressive eyes filled with tears of joy distilled by the unexpressible happiness which welled up. Within her. "My darling, I am so happy," he murmured huskily. "If this is Christmas Eve what will Christmas be?" "Oh, Tom, it will be just what we make it. Let's—let's make it glorious!" she breathed. . For Christmas," \\\ — \ < By Kate Thomas Because I am a mother, Christmas time Looks different to me. \ When I have put the last thing on the tree I am no longer weary, I can see The early morning and the children's glee. So something coming that I have not now Refreshes me. The many trips to town, the dizzy head, Slip to the background; in their place instead A cruze of comfort for an act well done— A service that gives pleasure to someone. All is so silent. There the tepid snow Lies luminous; and here the candles glow Their wordless message. In this minster dim I sink into a chair and think of Him. \ The anguished head, the every hurt that is, \ V That we, like children, shall have Christmas trees With little lights of faith that softly glow The trust we know. O little Christmas tree, so sweetly bright, You send your flickering beams into our night; And something coming that we have not now Brushes a distant breath across our brow, '—"- And hope renewed sings "'Ave!'' All is right.