Pietomty=Glen Pemins SNOW COVERED PINES IN THE ROCKIES Relief Society Conference Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary HE semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 1 and 2, 1930. Four sessions were held. The opening meeting in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, Wednesday morning at ten o'clock was for general and stake officers; the afternoon session on Wednesday and both sessions on Thursday were in the Assembly Hall on the Temple Block, and were open to the general public. All of the twenty-three General Board members were in attendance. Seventy-eight of the one hundred four stakes were represented by 368 officers and board members. There were also six mission presidents in attendance. President Louise Y. Robison presided at all of the meetings. The music was in charge of the chorister, Lizzie Thomas Edward. Special features were: contralto solo, Mrs. Cora H. Ballif; solo, Mrs. Evangeline Thomas Beesley; The Chaminade Chorus, directed by Prof. Anthony C. Lund; violin solo by Prof. Reginald Beales, accompanied by Mabel Borg Jenkins. Brother George Minns was at theorgan. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON G INCE we met six months ago much rich experience has come to all of us. I have visited many of the stakes and some of the missions, have seen the splendid work of the missionaries, and of women born and raised in the Church and also of others who, as converts, have embraced its teachings. I wish to tell you how dearly the General Board, my counselors and I, love you and all other Relief Society sisters, how much we appreciate the wonderful effort you are making in the very wide field of your endeavor. May the blessing of our Father in heaven be with you during this conference, and in all your work. A fine piece of work was done for some of the underprivileged children of Salt Lake, forty-four of whom were entertained by the Oneida and the Logan stakes during the summer. The little children were taken into the homes of the Relief Society sisters and cared for with loving kindness. We are most grateful for the hospitality shown these children and for the generosity of the Salt Lake City stakes who have defrayed the traveling expenses. It is a marvelous opportunity for the children, and we cannot overestimate the benefit to them. In addition to this fine work done by Oneida and Logan, we were able to send nine children to the Tuberculosis Camp in Big Cottonwood Canyon. These little ones were tuberculosis contacts or those who had the disease in its incipient stage. Much improvement was noted in these children too. There are two reorganizations to report. In the Blaine stake, Sister Mirtis Cooper, who had made a most capable Relief Society president, was released to take up other duties in the stake, and Sister Jennie Sanford was made Relief Society stake president. In the Blackfoot stake, Sister Flora H. Johnstone, who for many years had been one of our, stalwarts in Relief Society work, due to the illness of her hus- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE band was released from the position of stake president, and Sister Mary Bills was called to take the position. We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the services of these retiring sisters, and pray that the blessings of the Lord will be with them. We extend our greetings to those who are taking up the work, and our support and prayers are with them. During the last summer it was my privilege to attend some of the vacation camps for women in Idaho, which were held under the supervision of the Agricultural College. A. Very splendid work is being accomplished, and the objective— recreation, education and inspiration were all realized by the women who were fortunate enough to be in the group, among whom were many of our Relief Society members. It was my pleasure to participate in their discussion and to share the camps with these sisters. In response to requests for the publication of the names of our committees we say that the work is greater than any person or committee, and whatever is sent out goes from the General Board as a whole. According to the schedule arranged for our Relief Society stake conferences, a two-hour luncheon period is allowed. It has been suggested that this might be cut to one hour. This saving of valuable time would be a great advantage to the women of the stake and would enable the visiting General Board representatives to make better return connections. We never wish to leave until our work is entirely completed, but busy women as we are, we are anxious to return home as quickly as possible. Many stakes have asked for instructions in reference to free sewing for burial. This is an old custom and a very beautiful one if not — 665 carried too far. There are, how-: ever, some striking examples of real hardship, not to say injustice, being worked upon our willing sisters through this custom, This is what we wish to prevent. Sewing is a class of service which may be given as charity, but like anything else, it should not be given except where there is a definite need. Those who can afford to pay should do so, as they would for anything else. I hope that the Relief Society sisters will never let anything stand in the way of their looking after the people who are in sorrow, but they go with a loving spirit which is more than financial help, and a price can never be set upon the succor and comfort they carry. We should like to call attention to the Cottonwood stake maternity hospital, which is being so ably and so successfully conducted. Sister Bagley and her co-workers were responsible for its founding, and her successors in office have carried on so well that today we are very happy to express our appreciation for their efforts which are the means of accomplishing so much good. There is another movement in the field of health education which we wish to most heartily endorse, and that is the course in home hygiene and care of the sick given by the American Red Cross. This great national organization acknowledges its indebtedness to the Relief Society for the fine cooperation in their work. There are three or four stakes where the splendid results are in evidence, and we stronglv recommend our women to avail themselves of this fine opportunity whenever or wherever it is offered. The question of our relief work is one that is ever with us. We have some stakes where reports come from fortunate wards where there are no needy, but these are 666 more than offset by those where there is great need. We feel very sure that if our sisters where there is plenty, just know of those in distress, they will be willing to contribute toward the relief of the poor. The question of what to do in Work and Business meeting is often answered in just this way: We call your attention to the plan that was suggested in the April conference department meeting. We wonder if the General Board members and stake officers have made their contribution of the articles for which the plan called. We can never get very far unless we begin by doing it ourselves. We sincerely hope the women have not forgotten the Relief Society has pledged itself to stand firmly for prohibition, and this fall we must not fail to uphold our standards. There is powerful opposition to it, but we feel that our women may be depended upon to use their franchise wisely. During our stake conferences we have spoken of the great service of Susan B. Anthony in the cause of women. Her belief was, that if women had the ballot, the great evils from which people suffered would be corrected. Let us therefore use our franchise in a manner which will justify the faith Miss Anthony had in us. The Church authorities and the Presiding Bishopric have given to the Relief Society a very special piece of work to do. All the bishops of the Church have been asked to entrust to the Relief Society the investigation of all cases of charity requiring relief work. This great responsibility was given to us last spring, and we keenly sense the need of special training to do this very important work well. The result of careful plannng was to hold a series of institutes covering a peRELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE | riod of six weeks in which a representative from each stake would — be given a course in the fundamental principles of correct social service. These workers would then be able to carry it back to the wards in their stakes. Experience has demonstrated that. A group of 25 is about as large as can be satisfactorily trained at one institute. We expect, therefore, in this educational program, to extend to every stake in the Church the opportunity of sending its representative to one of these institutes. We know that in the past our dear sisters have done most excellent work in the field of charity, but in line with the march of progress we wish to become more efficient and since we can learn much from experience and from scientific methods, it is quite in line with our policy to bring these things to bear upon our work. We have highly trained women here in our office and we wish you all to profit by their knowledge. We feel that it is one of the greatest pieces of work we have ever tundertaken, and we want you to know the details. One very successful institute has just been completed. REPORT OF SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board HE class instruction of the institute was under my charge. In making out the program it was aimed to make it just as comprehensive as possible in the time allotted. We had one hour a day in sociology, as that is the real basic course of social work, dealing as it does with human relations, with the development, organization, and function of social service. This course was taught by teachers from RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the L. D. S. University. The second hour was devoted to the principles and technique of case work. We discussed the principles and also cases bearing upon the methods and technique and the proper way of handling the various social problems that all workers meet in their wards. The third hour was devoted to special lectures. These were given by Salt Lake physicians who are pre-eminent in the subject they were asked to speak upon, by university professors, and by other men—men all expert in the special field of social work. These lectures were grouped under special headings. There were ten lectures on health subjects, including medical tradition and ethics, bacteriology and disease, the early detection of physical disease, common diseases and resulting disabilities and treatment, nutrition and principles of growth, maternity and infancy, prenatal care, public health, public and private agencies dealing with health, trend in public health work, social hygiene, and hospital social work. Mental hygiene was given a prominent place. Under this were discussed mental hygiene movement and principles, mental hygiene problems of childhood, mental diseases, the care of the feeble-minded, human behavior, the unadjusted adult, and psychiatric aspects of social work, The third general heading was child welfare, and under this we had character education, the delinquent child, child in the court including dependent, neglected and handicapped children, school problems, and the visiting teacher. The fourth division was the legal aspects of social work, the laws governing child welfare, welfare of women and domestic relations, welfare laws in general, and the types and problems which bring the social worker in social control, 667 in contact with the law, agencies in law enforcement, the place of law the socialized court, the place of the social worker in the law. There were also two excellent lectures on prison problems, including crime and treatment of criminals. In the afternoon from one until two (we did let the women have one hour off for lunch) we had a discussion of required reading which included such books as Social Diagnosis, 'The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, Our Neighbors, The Charity Visitor, What a Social (Case Worker Should Know About Her Own Community, What is Social Work, and so on—books that are considered as authority in the field of social work. The women reviewed these books and read them and gave them very careful consideration. From two until five every day, those who were taking field work were busy visiting families in all parts of the city. Some of them picked up whole families and took them to doctors for medical examination; they went to the Capitol and discussed plans for rehabilitation with the State agent; they came in contact with as many of our state and county resources as possible in the work. The workers all did wonderfully well. The Relief Society social service department was assisted in the field work by the Family Service Society, which co-operated in training some of the women. We also had an opportunity of giving the women some insight into the way Red (Cross work functions by contacting the Red 'Cross organization here. Visits were arranged to institutions in the state, county, and city, thus giving the women an idea of what resources jwe have in our state and in what we are lacking. 668 COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN COURSE in social service usually covers two years, full-time, but we are trying to give-you a birdseye view in six weeks. Thisseems a long time to those who are called to take the work, especially if they have to leave their homes and children, but we would rather you would not send anyone who cannot stay the full six weeks. Choose women who like the work. It is most important to get people who are interested in it; persons of good judgment and stability are required. In choosing, get people who are fitted for this, who are conservative and can keep things to themselves. People should be chosen who are willing to give up all other activities for this work. In this, we have the approval of President RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Robison and Presiding Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon. We cannot have professional people to do this work all over the Church, but we want it well done and we are asking for those who will specialize in it, keep track of reform movements in the nation and in the state, and who will be willing to give all the time they have for public service to this particular work. If one gets interested in the training, she is sure to like it. It is also necessary to have women who are able physically to do this work, and are young enough to stand the strain, for it is strenuous and requires much thought and time, so that our recommendation is to get as young women as you can for this type of work. It is well for the stake presidents to bear these things in mind when choosing the stake representative. GENERAL SESSION Assembly Hall October 1, 1930—2 p. M. MRS. JENNIE B. KNIGHT Member of the General Board 4p ug is an age of magazines, so I wish to mention the dear Rehef Society Magazine, our messenger to you, which for the mere trifling sum of 2c a week will enter into your home and help you be a better woman, a better officer, a better teacher, a 'better class leader, and a better member. I was asked for a little information concerning the literary work of the Relief Society from the beginning, going to the bound volumes I was amazed to find the vast scope of the literary courses, in poetry, drama, biography, and so forth. It is indeed a veritable library. Last winter I was asked to be a judge of a retold story contest of the Mutual Improvement Association. Three out of five contestants had taken stories from the Relief Society Magazine. A woman might just as well expect a seamstress to make a beautiful dress without a pair of scissors as to think that Relief Society class leaders can do without the Magasine. The Magazine is a text book. How can we keep up with our adult education if we do not have our text? And no magazine that covers the same field the Relief Society Magazine does, comes at such a nominal fee. - For the young mothers it can be the touchstone to Relief Society work. Perhaps they are not able to go to all the Relief Society meetings, but by reading the Magazine they will feel its spirit, and it will keep them in touch with the organization. To our ward vis- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE iting teachers, it is an indicator of the things they are to discuss in the homes, and will help them to cultivate that much desired art of conversation. In the Magazine there is always something of pleasure and profit. Readers are never disappointed. Articles, poems and stories are all well chosen and timely. The editorials, lessons and reports are all full of instruction. Contact with the Magazine conveys a spirit of high endeavor. It is good to know that thousands of other women with similar aspirations and desires are reading the Magazine and seeking to follow its ideals. Subscribers feel that the coming of the Magazine is like the visit of an intimate friend who brings sympathetic understanding of daily problems and strengthens the resolve to carry on. We hope that you officers will make an enthusiastic canvass for subscribers to the Magazine. Let it not be said that there is one home in your ward where there is a Relief Society member 'who does not have the opportunity of subscribing for the Magazine, that they may not be cheated of the admonition which says, "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even 'by study and also by faith;" and that they may reap the reward which says, "If any person through his own diligence gains a greater degree of intelligence in this world than another, it will rise with him in the world to come." As women interested in adult education let us not fail to go to the fountain head, namely, our Magazine, and let us remember that our first allegiance as Relief Society women to any magazine is to that of our own organization.; "The Indian Appeal," an address by Julia A. F. Lund; and "The Lamanite in the Gospel Scheme," by 669 President Rey L. Pratt, will be published in a subsequent issue of the Magazine. SAN JUAN STAKE RELIEF |SOCIETY Mrs. Hattie R. Barton, President se San Juan Mission was established in 1880. About eighty families were called from different parts of the state to go to San Juan county and establish friendly relations with the Lamanite people. It has been a long time—fifty years the sixth of last April—since our pioneers first entered the little valley of Bluff. It was fifty years in September since the first Relief Society was organized in San Juan, with fifty-eight members. That sounds like a small beginning, but to me it is a marvel that away from all the outside world, in the little town of Bluff, our pioneer mothers organized that Relief Society. The spirit of the Lord was with them and it has been with the organization ever since. Not the least interesting part of the history of our country is the contact we have had with the Indians. Our stake is situated in the heart of the Indian country. We have always had a special mission there, and we are just now beginning to get results. A number of these Lamanite children are en- - rolled with our own children in our district school at Blanding. It was said that it could never be done, but it is being done. It is marvelous the way the Indian children are re- — sponding to the instruction. It seems now that the predictions that were made concerning the remnant of the house of Joseph is being fulfilled to these little people, and they are in a position now to become white and delightsome. This experiment is so closely related to our Book of Mor- 670 mon study that the Relief Society feels a very special interest in it. The government has established its dormitory at Blanding and is cooperating very splendidly in the work. We are watching this experiment very closely and the eyes of many parts of our great country are on us, for in no other place in the United States are the Indian children going to school under just the same (circumstances and conditions as are these little people in the San Juan stake. This is one very satisfactory way of helping the government to solve its problems and discharge its moral obligation towards the Indian, and it is our way of fulfilling the mission entrusted to our pioneer fathers and mothers. We are a long way from the fine educational centers where there are so many conferences, institutes, clinics and lectures of all kinds, and yet we have our problems and are working for the same end as are you in other parts of our Church. During the summer months our stake board held a Relief Society teachers' institute in each ward as we are so widely separated. Last winter our stake board presented to the public the pageant play "Joseph and His Brethren," which was a great financial and educational achievement. One of the most interesting and valuable projects that we have undertaken, is the preservation of the history of our pioneers and of our organization, taken from private diaries and journals, from ward and Relief Society records. This interesting material is being compiled and in book form it will be a heritage for our children. Each ward Relief Society now has its own meeting place. In Blanding we have the use of the domestic science rooms of the school where there is a small cannery. At RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE times we have a great surplus of fruits, vegetables and meats. We are hoping that this will be the beginning of an enterprise which will enable us to take care of much that has gone to waste and it will also preserve food for winter use for some of our needy families. RIGBY STAKE [RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Lettie E. Call, President Be aweeeeS the grounds and the exterior of the homes in our Stake has been very noticeable and has encouraged the refinement and the culture of the people. One of our achievements is the visiting teaching. In some wards 100% is reported, and this, in our farming districts where many miles, in some instances, have had to be traveled in order to cover a teacher's district. Possibly the most outstanding thing we have accomplished in our stake has been our health program. About four years ago our stake board began this special work, and by co-operation with the AntiTuberculosis Association we were enabled the first year to maintain a trained public health nurse for two months. Our efforts have been untiring and we have enlisted the aid of not only the Anti-Tuberculosis Association, but of the Red Cross. The schools and the county. This longer nursing service has been an immense advantage. In the last year there were 227 corrections made besides those by the dentists and the oculist. Through the fine work of our county nurses and the work of the Relief Society members and others, we got before our county commissioners the state law (in Idaho) which provides for a nurse program in the counties. Through RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this year-round program of nursing, the boys and girls of the future will gain much and the men and women of the future will be healthy and strong. The development of health will form a splendid basis for the improvement of the moral conditions of our communities. YOUNG STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. L. Nettie Behrmann, President WE live away down in southern Colorado and New Mexico. We have quite a distance to travel in contacting all our people. Some of the roads are not very good, but we are thankful we have the roads to go on. It may be a good thing for us to know what poverty means, but it is a great inconvenience sometimes to be poor. Lack of funds and the scattered conditions of our people create many problems. Some of our organizations have 100% in visiting teaching. One president reported that no matter upon whom they call, the sisters give to charity. We have some good outside friends, too, who donate to us. We have in one of our branches three members belonging to our association who are non-members of the "Mormon" Church, and we have been told that they are anxious and willing to pay their annual fund. In Durango our people work in stores and places of that kind, but most of our stake is composed of farming communities, and we have been thinking that if the brethren and sisters would cooperate and the father would say to the mother at twelve o'clock on Tuesday, "Mama, I will stay and keep the children this afternoon _ while you go to Relief Society meeting," we would have an average at- 671 tendance of 100%. And in turn, I believe if the sisters would say on Sunday morning, "Now, Papa, you get ready and go to Priesthood meeting and I will feed the pigs and milk the cows," and shove papa off to Priesthood meeting, he would appreciate it, and be more willing to take care of the children while mama is gone to Relief Society meeting. We have not been able to have a clinic in our stake, but we have cooperated with our county commissioners, our Red Cross workers, and our county school nurses in the two states, and we have been successful in the last year and a half or two years in having our children examined. This has been very beneficial, and fine corrective work has been done. Our stake, in the last three years, has built three new meeting houses, and our Relief Society has helped with these. We have done a great deal along the charity line, as there are many calls in our communities. We have decided this year to make a greater effort for membership, and to try to see if we can get a Magazine in each home. One branch of our stake has seven members enrolled, and. In that branch they take twelve Magazines. Weare going to try to send a representative to attend the social service institute. It will be difficult, but we feel that we need this knowledge and so we are going to put forth every effort to send some one here to get that training. I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father that missionaries came to my home and brought me to Zion. I feel grateful that I am priyileged to work in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I certainly do enjoy Relief Society work. 672 SNOWFLAKE STAKE RELIEF S@eIETY Ars. Leonora S. Rovers, President Pay v7) HE dental work done for our children, through clinics arranged by the Relief Society in cooperation with the Parent-Teacher Association, is one of our greatest achievements. We weren't fortunate enough to have a wheat fund willed to us, therefore we are trying to build up a substitute. Since the General Board has discontinued our temple fund we turned that into a health fund. It is collected by the visiting teachers in July, and is being reserved exclusively for health work. The women have manifested a wonderful spirit in this project, though we continue to support temple work all we can. This small health donation which was formerly given for the redemption of the dead is now helping to save the living. Very excellent results followed the social service institute held in our stake by the General Board. There are a few points about our visiting teachers' work which are commendable. Last year our wards reported 100% officers and teachers have access to the Relief Society Magazine. They reported 100% teachers carry the message as outlined to the homes. In our stake we include each month a president's message in the teachers' topic. This special message may be from the General Board, stake board or the local president. This has been an effective way of 'reaching our women. Last summer our Relief Society stake board, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary stake boards united in trying to correct a social problem. Our block teachers carried the special message to the mothers in behalf of the Primary and M. I. A,, meLIEF SOGERY MAGAZINE and we immediately noticed that the Primary work went over with much more zeal. Our teachers have an efficiency record. Card which they enjoy filling out each month. They score on each of the ten activities which if completed make them efhcient teachers. They are: 1. I have attended preparation meeting and report meeting. 2. I have collected 100% annual dues on my district. 3. I have made prayerful preparation of my teacher's topic. 4.1 have made my monthly visit. 5. I have filled out the activity report in my teacher's book for this month. 6. I have carried my president's special message to each sister this month. 7. I am a subscriber for the Relef Society Magazine. 8. I have done a good turn to at least one individual in my district this month. 9. The homebound or aged in my district have had a special visit from me or someone I have invited to go. 10. At least 50% of the women of my district have attended one or more Relief Society meetings during this month. (A possible 100% can be made. Each number counts 10%.) Another thing we did this year was to send a Christmas gift to the Arizona State Children's Home. The superintendent of the school intimated a gift would be acceptable. We sent a box containing twelve new quilts, made and donated by our twelve organizations. Last May we made and donated a beautiful bridal suit to the Arizona temple. This is to be worn by the young people who go from our stake to be married in that temple. During the lesson season members of the stake board wrote and regular RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE presented a play "Joan of Arc." This was taken principally from our literary book, "The Girl in White Armor." We received good advertisement from the schools because of its historical value. It proved a very fine success. Our special activity for March 17th last year was a double trio prepared in each ward and rendered on that program. At the following union meeting these trios were all assembled in the form of a musical contest. This brought a_ special group into an activity. In the president's annual visit to the members of the ward at the close of the year, we prepared an outline to help her. Besides the regular message, we asked her to stress the following points: 1. Invite new members to join. 2, Annual dues should be paid in January. 3. Magazine should be accessible to every officer. 4. Encourage home study of lessons. 5. Pay special heed to fatherless and motherless. 6. Ask every woman to do a good turn during Christmas week, Our union meetings are our best means of putting over the following month's work, but because of the distance of most wards we cannot hope to have a full attendance of officers. However, we have the assurance of at least one representative each month, for our good bishops provide a way for one representative from each organization to come in. Our secretary sends notice in advance telling the presi- 'dents of any special activity to be given at the meeting, often designating the special officer we would like sent in. For example, if there is to be some demonstration or plan for the Work and Business Meeting, we ask for the counselor who has that work in charge to come. And I might say in passing that we 673 have found more work can be accomplished in Work and Business Meeting when the work is planned ahead than will otherwise be done. This plan for union meeting has carried over fairly well in our stake. We find better efforts put forth when each officer carries her division of responsibility. In so doing she soon becomes a specialist along her particular line. This has proved so in our educational activities. From ward reports it is quite evident that our outstanding achievement for the past year has been in our lesson work. We conducted a contest for six months beginning with January and ending with the June lessons. The objective for this contest was to increase our attendance. Tollowing are the points used for the literary class since that was the heaviest course. The score of the contest was based on: ~ 1, Attendance. 2. Preparation of lesson in Magasine. 3. Reading of the biography for that particular month. 4. Copying neatly one or more gems found in the biography. For the month we allowed 30% for attendance, 20% for Magazine reading, 30% for reading the book, and 20% for the gem; 4% of the women of the stake scored 100% in the literary class. 108 women read "Son of the Middle Border;"' 133 women read "Florence Nightingale;"' 114 women read "Joaquin Miller;'" 167 women read "Schumann-Heink;" 90 women read "Emily Dickinson;" making a total of.612 good books read by the literary class. The score cards used for the Theology were the same as the literary for numbers 1 and 2. No, 3 was reading of Book of Mormon text; No. 4, Application of lesson in the home (which meant a dis- 674 cussion or review of the story); 9% of the women of the stake made 100% in the Theology class work; 242 women reported part reading of the Book of Mormon. In the Social Service, the score was based much the same with the exception of No. 4 which required outside reading along the line of social service; 30% of the women read the "Art of Helping People out of Trouble." This lesson activity has been a wonderful course for the education of our women. The women have had this social contact at meeting and then return to their homes enriched, refreshed, and their burdens lightened for another week's work. Such work develops love, harmony, and lasting joy. OGDEN STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs, Ida M. Treseder, President HIS summer when the General Board sent out to the stakes a questionnaire we felt that they did us a very great favor. From the investigation necessary we learned more about our Relief Society organizations than we had ever known before. I think this winter that our big work will be to try to get hold of sisters who are enrolled and who have not been attending the ward organization meetings. Our greatest achievement is through our class work. We have some very efficient and capable class teachers on our stake board, and they help to' make efficient teachers in our wards. Our sisters have surely gotten a very good education out of the class work. Every year we are developing teachers and class leaders. Since we have had the teacher training class our visiting teachers' RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE work has been done better than before. We co-operate with all the social service agencies in our stake, and in this respect I would like to mention our hospital. We go to the hospital each month and do sewing for that institution, and we have had the privilege given to us to send a limited number of charity maternity cases to the hospital. We have had that privilege for some time and have sent a great number of our sisters to the hospital for attention at that particular time. We have followed up this work and found that they have had just as good attention as though paying the money for it. We are very thankful to our hospital for giving us that privilege. MARY C. KIMBALL Member of the General Board and Editor of the Relief Society Magazine ne different, from the prevailing spirit and thought of the times, was the attitude of Joseph Smith toward women when he organized the Relief Society in 1842! He said: "This charitable Society is according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feeling of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms, If you live up to these principles, how. Great and glorious!" From that time on the condition of women changed for the better. The way he recognized the divine instincts given women by our heavenly Father, and his desire to see these instincts have a fuller expression is a mark of his divine inspiration. I am deeply grateful for the privilege that is mine, of laboring in this great cause. No finer band of women could be gathered together in the world than RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are found in our ranks. Every talent we may have has opportunity for expression. Are we clever with our fingers? Then we may quilt, make little garments for children, make over clothing for the poor, and find joy in that service. Do we long to know books and writers better than we have done? Our Society calls us together each week to study some of the finest things that have been given to people. And so we delve into religious subjects, into literature, into social service questions, and this great field is opening up more and more to us all the time, and we are learning that it is not enough to supply the needs of people temporarily, but that we must study what has caused their condition, and how we may help them to help themselves, how we may raise them to a higher plane of living, and how we may teach them to budget their resources and to live within them. Everywhere we turn we may give expression to these longings that are in our souls to help our brothers and our sisters in need. When we realize the vastness of this work and its many opportunities, we do well to ask, how may we better serve? What qualifications should we cultivate to make us more fit for the burdens we assume? We should think and study and observe, read and ponder over what we read, that vision may come to us. We should keep God's commandments in order that we may by example as well as by precept show the better way of life. Then only will truth and light come to us because our Father has pronounced that he that keepeth his commandments shall receive truth and light until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things. We should cultivate poise so that we are not perturbed by little things, but that we can keep our eyes steadfastly fixed | 675 on the big things of life that need our attention. We should maintain a balance of interest—sometimes we become so intensely interested in one thing that we are unbalanced. I have heard of women who become so wrapped up in genealogical research that their children became secondary considerations. No matter how good a thing is we want to obtain a balance of interest. Work, recreation, rest—so goes the cycle, and we should not be one-sided and devote all our time and energy to one thing. How we need to cultivate patience in our work with the unfortunate! Sometimes they try us; we wonder whether we will ever accomplish anything, but we find if we maintain a patient attitude that gradually things become brighter and the object we have had in view comes nearer, and if we will keep a right attitude, that means much. We need to keep the spirit of youth. Youth is not a matter wholly of young muscles and of arteries that have not begun to harden—it is a matter of our outlook, our interests, of joy in life, and enthusiasm. Let us put into action our better selves, and look into our own hearts and see what needs rooting out, see what good qualities we have that we can develop. Let us be not petty, but broad; not fault-finding, but constructive; not hasty, but wise in judgment; not prejudiced, but open minded; not selfish, but generous; not erratic, but dependable; and let us remember the admonition of Paul that we should be an example in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. May our Father enable us to see the wonderful work that he has established, and may we show our appreciation of it by putting the very best we have into it, and then, my sisters, we will learn the paradox of service that Christ tried so hard to plant in 676 the hearts of his followers—by giving we shall have more; by studying it will be like putting grain into the granaries so that the staff of life may be taken out; we then, because of our study and research and thought will have developed into more splendid women, and will be able to give greater service. ALICE L. REYNOLDS Former Member of the General Board and Editor of the Relief Society Magazine F OR over seven years it was my high privilege to edit your Magazine. We did seek to keep to the front women who are achieving, and we sought, also, to embody the lives and efforts of people who are not just of our own day but who made their worthy contribution in the past. One of the particular privileges that came to us during our term as editor was to cover the centenary of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the centenary of the organization of the Church. It was a great privilege and we hope that when another hundred years shall come that if those who are doing the work shall be interested in turning back to see what was done in 1930, that they will find there material worthy of perusal. One of the things we do hope is that through all the work the golden thread of the gospel could be felt and seen. Sister Kimball is a noble woman. She is a woman who loves God and loves the gospel of Jesus Christ. She is an able woman who has devoted herself to study; she is a woman who loves women, so that I am full of joy and rejoicing that the work that I found necessary to lay down has fallen into the hands of one so well prepared to do it and RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE one whose spirit is in such hearty accord with all Latter-day Saint women. I want to say a word about this Board. When I was a member of it, it would not have been the best of taste for me to say what I am going to say now, but since I am not one of them now I can say it perhaps with some propriety. They are magnificent women; they work early and late, and their eyes are always looking ahead. There are no back wheels to the General Board of the Relief Society. It is progress; onward, onward is the slogan, and they work and they deliberate and they plan to bring to you the very best that there is to bring to you. The Relief Society has an ambitious program. It has such a worthwhile program that all Relief Society women should feel that they have a very worthy aim in life when they are doing the work of the Relief Society. You know some of those who are philosophers tell us today there is no happiness for people who haven't a worthy object, a worthy aim. One of the things that makes me rejoice in the gospel of these latter days is that it furnishes such high ideals and such worthy aims for its workers. ALICE D. MOYLE President Eastern States Mission. Relief Society WISH to voice my appreciation and esteem for the wonderful women who have boys on missions. It is not only the fighters in the first ranks who assist in the progress of the Church, but those who stay at home and make it possible, and I am sure, after being acquainted with several hundred of your boys, what _kind of mothers they have at home. I know the Lord will bless you for your sacrifices, both of their presence and the money it costs to keep RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE them there, and I want to assure you mothers that your confidence is well placed for I have come in contact with some most wonderful boys in the year and a half that I have been in the Eastern States Mission. The girls are doing a marvelous work, work the boys could not do, in Primary work and Mutual work; and they go into homes where the elders cannot go, and I have never come in contact with one girl in the mission field that I was not proud of and that I could not take in my arms as my own child. They are all possessed of the same spiritual power in the mission field that makes them all beautiful and all lovely to be with. PRESIDENT _RUDGER CLAWSON HE (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized one hundred years ago, and a little later, the Relief Society was organized, nearly one hundred years ago, and it has been going strong and was never stronger or more influential or powerful than it is today. Think ofa membership of 62,- 900 souls! I wish to say a word in respect to the Relief Society Magazine. It is a wonderful Magazine. You must never forget that it is the Relief Society organ, it is your publication, it belongs to you, it is issued for your benefit. If a Relief Society sister should come to me and say, "Brother Clawson, what is my responsibility to the Church publications?" I should say, without hesitation, "My dear sister, your first obligation in this matter is to subscribe to the Relief Society Magagme. In it you will find every instruction and teaching that is necessary for you, and then after that, if you want to subscribe for other magazines, it is all right, but for 677 you, it should be the Relief Society Magazine first." COUNSELOR JULIA A, CHILD ELIEF SOCIETY offers an opportunity for adult education for the women of our Church that is not found anywhere else. We are proud of our outlined lessons and the work that is being accomplished through them. The course of study this year is particularly interesting. In theology we continue the study of the Book of Mormon. We are hoping that by the end of next year when we will have completed the course that every woman in this Church not only will have read the Book of Mormon but will have within her heart a testimony that it is true. Our literary work is The Short Story. This course will interest many in the text book which covers the best in this field of literature. We also hope that before the course is ended (it is going to be a twoyear course) that many of the stories of our pioneers will have been gathered and written by the members. These may be compiled as short stories. We hope a rich contribution will come from our members in this way. The text of the social service course is Influencing Human Behavior by Overstreet—an excellent book and one of the very latest. Quoting from our text, Overstreet says: "As individuals, our chief task in life is to make our personality, and what our personality has to offer, effective in our particular environment of human beings." We need to know how to interest our fellows, how to arouse their expectations, how to build up habits to a favorable response, and how to lead and adjust and control. Now to the mothers in our Church an opportunity is given to study how 678 better to understand ourselves as well as our children, and how to increase our personalities so as to become more effective in the service of others. We must learn something about science, its aims and its limitations; above all we must learn something of how we can apply science to ourselves, especially in relation to others. The topics that are outlined for the visiting teacher are of very great importance. The visiting teacher is one of the very first activities that was given in our Relief Society. The visiting teacher goes into the home of many who do not go to our meetings, so it is very important that they have this message and deliver it intelligently. For this purpose a training class has been organized and the visiting teachers are asked to come one Tuesday of each month and discuss their problems. They are instructed to carry whatever message is necessary from the president, and they should leave one beautiful, helpful thought in every home. In the preparation of this educational work, committees from the General Board are chosen, and they decide on the subjects of our work. It is not done hastily, but carefully and prayerfully. Whenever a new or old subject is to be taken up, it is thoroughly discussed; after the subject of study is chosen, great care is exercised in selecting the writer of the lessons. We feel particularly pleased for all the authors of the lessons have the background of Relief Society work and are able to write splendid lessons. Then, in your wards capable class leaders are chosen. After all this work has been done, the members of the association should support the teachers. Very full lessons are given in our Magazines, and these should be read carefully. Reference books are RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE often mentioned there, but it is not the intention of the writers of the lessons that you purchase these reference books, but we are anxious that just as many as possible buy the text books. Of course we realize that all class leaders must have the text book and we hope that at least all ward associations will have one besides that, and we urge as many of thé members as can possibly do so to buy the texts and use them. While we are urging that this work go on, we want you to remember this, that at the bottom of it all is the spirit of the gospel, and we hope it will be taught with every lesson because upon that we build our work. We trust that this year the lesson work throughout the Church will be, if possible, a little bit better than it has ever been before. We hope the members and officers will go away with a determination to work a little bit harder. We hope the visiting teachers will go out fully determined to visit every home and carry a message to each one. I hope that we will have a successful year, and I am sure we will. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT I CAN truthfully say that it is always a pleasure to me to meet with our sisters. My dear departed mother was both father and mother to me, and some of the dearest friends I have ever had in the world have been the officers of this association. My mother was a girl with "Aunt Em" Wells and with Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, and others, in Nauvoo. My earliest recollections are associated with the very splendid and wonderfully inspirational teachings of Eliza R. Snow. As a little child, residing on Main Street where the Z. C. M. T. Now stands, I very often RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE went over to the Lion House and spent many hours in the rooms of Aunt Eliza, as I called her. She was full of interesting, inspirational experiences, personal experiences with the Prophet Joseph Smith, She instilled into my heart, and so did my mother and these other noble women to whom I have referred, and many others whom I have not mentioned, especially "Aunt Mary" Partridge, a love for the inspiration and spirit and ability and wonderful power of Joseph Smith. I learned to love him as a child and I am pleased to say to you that in all of my travels at home or abroad, wherever I have gone, that I have constantly been finding something that added to my love and respect for the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is a wonderful thing that under the inspiration of the Lord this man should have established the first women's association of any note in the United States of America. I am sure that there is no other class of people of the same numbers as the Latter-day Saints that could ever get together such a body as I see before me here today, interested in religious matters and in the welfare of the good women of their respective communities where they live. I was particularly impressed with the last remark that was made by the sister that preceded me, that above all, the main thing is to get the spirit of the gospel. The spirit gives life, the letter kills, and I have no fear for the Church of Jesus Christ as long as the women of the Church are as devoted as you are and as others are in their various organizations. I am convinced that it is the mother that shapes the lives of the children far more than the father, and if we can only keep a deep spiritual interest in the hearts of our sisters in the Primaries, in the Mutuals, and in the Relief Societies, this work is bound to pro- 679 gress. The absolute faith in the hearts of these noble women I have mentioned, in the gospel of Jesus Christ and the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, I am sure, has come down to you and me and to others that are of the second and third and even of the fourth generation of faithful workers in this Church, I pray constantly for all of the officers of this Church, whether in the Priesthood or in the auxiliary associations. J am sure, in my secret prayers particularly, that I never forget, morning or night, those that have been called to preside, to direct the affairs in the Priesthood quorums and in the auxiliary associations. My prayer is that each and every one of you holding a place of responsibility shall so order your lives that they shall be examples of diligence and energy and of the spirit of the living God, that can be followed in every part by those over whom you preside. I am proud of our mothers; I am proud of our daughters. I do not believe you can travel in any part of the world and find finer people than among the Latter-day Saints. I have often said in the past when we were suffering slander and persecution and trouble that if we could have a real, genuine photograph of the splendid women that were connected with the women's organizations in our Church, published in various periodicals that were maligning the people, that the very faces of these women would be a refutation to all the charges made against our people. I remember well in Japan of reading an article by a man who stated it was his business to analyze the 'faces of people, and he said he had just come from visiting the president of the "Mormon" Church (that was when Lorenzo Snow was president) and he said, 680 with one single exception, in all his life he had never looked upon a more God-like face than that of the "Mormon" leader. If the 'Mormon' Church can furnish leaders like this, it will need no greater proof of the integrity of the people. I have often felt that a photograph of our dear sisters, with the intelligent, god-like faces they. Possess, would be a testimony to all the world of the integrity of our people. One thing I expect to speak upon tomorrow is the gratitude in my heart for the wonderful change that has come about in the world today with regard to our people. We are becoming known for exactly what we are—a God-fearing people, a people with an abiding faith in God as our father, the father of our spirits, aS one we can approach, and who, we know, hears and answers prayers; a people with an absolute faith in Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world, and with an absolute faith also that Joseph Smith was in very deed a prophet of the true and living God. These are fundamentals today. The world is drifting away from faith in God and in Jesus Christ as the Son of God. They have no belief in a living prophet; they worship the dead prophets, but we have an abiding faith in Joseph Smith as the absolute prophet and instrument in the hands of God in establishing here upon the earth the plan of life and salvation. It is, my dear sisters, in very deed the truth, it is the pearl of great price which is of more value than anything else in all the world, and I rejoice that we are becoming known as a God-fearing people. That God will bless the officers of this association, the general offcers, the stake and the ward officers, and all the members, is my most earnest and humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer, Amen. RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE ACHIEVEMENTS OF WOMEN Counselor Amy Brown Lyman I DESIRE today to speak of some achievements of women in the last century, for it is really astounding what advancement has been made by and for women in one hundred years. We read constantly of the service of women's organizations and of women who are working successfully in business, education, scientific research, music and art, in the professions of social work, law, and medicine, and in politics. It is a strange thing that men have opposed the activity and development of women, but stranger still that many women have also joined the opposition, while others have been indifferent. For it is a fundamental fact that the development of the race itself depends largely upon the development and activity of women, and that the race develops in proportion to the development of woman. Even the great central fact has sometimes been lost sight of "that with each generation the entire race passes through the body of its womanhood, as through a mould, reappearing with the indelible marks of that mould upon it." Only an able, active, working womanhood can permanently produce an able and active manhood. In social work especially, women have had a large part. There are as many noted women in this profession today as there are men, Social work has contributed much to the comfort, happiness and well-being of the world. It has fought poverty, crime, disease, and immorality, and has accomplished much in protective and preventive work. It was the social worker and not the doctor who first began the organized fight against tuberculosis; against venereal disease; against the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE unventilated and unclean tenement houses. It was the social worker who sought protective legislation for human beings, for sickness and accident insurance, workmen's compensation, minimum wage for women, eight-hour day; the social worker who organized plans for infant and maternity care, for birth registration, and for health opportunity for everybody, and women workers have played a large part in this work, James Gerard (former ambassador to Germany) recently named a list of fifty men whom he designated as rulers of the United States. In September, 1930, Miss Ida M. Tarbell, herself a distinguished writer and editor, at the request of the Los Angeles Times and the North American Newspaper Alliance, made a list of fifty foremost women of the United States, entitled "Living Women Who Have Done Most to Advance the Welfare of the Country." Her measuring rod was (1) ability to create and initiate, (2) ability to lead and inspire, (3) ability to carry on. She listed the women in groups as follows—Artists and Writers, 16; Educators and Scholars, 12; Social, Industrial and Political Workers, 18; Business Women, 2; Women in Sports, 2. Being a humanitarian organization ourselves, I am sure we will all be interested in a few of the women listed in the social, industrial and political class whom I shall mention: Jane Addams, America's most revered woman; Carrie Chapman Catt, the country's leading stateswoman; Julia Lathrop, a Hull House volunteer worker of thirty years standing, a child welfare specialist, the first chief of the U. S. Children's Bureau; Grace Abbott, chief of Children's Bureau, immigration expert; Lillian D. Wald, originator of district nursing in 681 New York at Henry Street Settlement, and the woman who suggest ed the Children's Bureau; Florence Kelly, leader to improve factory conditions; Judge Florence Allen (a Utahn), Justice of Supreme Court of Ohio; Mary Anderson, chief of Woman's Bureau of U. S. Department of Labor, who has worked unceasingly for women and girls in industry; Maude Ballington Booth, for forty years a prison worker; Helen Keller, master of her fate. A discussion of women and women's work in the United States would not be complete without mention of our L. D. S. Women's organizations—the Relief Society, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association. I shall speak only of the Relief Society today. For eightyeight years the 'Relief Society has existed. In this time it has grown in membership from 18 to 62,902; in branches from four Nauvoo wards to 1665. Last year the amount paid out for charity was $98,925.02. The Relief Society today encircles the globe—an invisible band connects the branches which are held together in love, unity of purpose and loyalty by the spirit of the work and by gospel ties. Beginning in Illinois, on the banks of the Mississippi River, the Relief Society first grew westward into the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, then across the continent, and on to the countries of Europe; later, southward to Hawaii and New Zealand, 'Australia, Tahiti and Tonga, and then to South Africa and Asia Minor, forming a circle. The same influence directs the work everywhere; there is the same uniformity of purpose; the same benevolence and sympathy are extended; and the same spirit—the spirit of the gospel—permeates the work.