THE WOMAN AT THE WELL "Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him, shall never thirst, but it shall bein him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." How Old is Old? By Ada Taylor Graham Executive Secretary Utah Tuberculosis Association ETHUSELAH was 969 M years old when he died; the poet Chatterton only 18. What does it mean to be old? When are we old? How old is old, anyhow? Perhaps it is reduced earning capacity? American industry scraps its men and women at forty. But age doesn't necessarily have anything to do with productivity. Some of the finest things in the world came from so-called "old-people." Giovanni Bellini, Michael Angelo, Sidney (Cooper, painted some of their best works just a short time before they died. Titian was painting with "incomparable 'steadiness of hand" until the day of his death at the jage of ninety-nine. Goethe, Voltaire, Anatole France, Frederick Hanson, Littre, van Ranke, retained their creative energy unimpaired until their deaths. So we needn't be old after all! How can we prevent senility? Most of us exercise too little, get insufhcient rest, live too hard and fast, drink too little water, eat too much, do not recognize or correct disease until it has become chronic and almost incurable. Yet from time immemorial our sages have been trying to teach us differently. Some of the most famous sayings in the world are simply rules for retaining health and increasing pleasurable longevity. Statisticians say that the majority of centenarians eat sparingly. Montaigue writes: 'Man does not die, he kills himself." And don't you remember translating that passage of Cicero: "Nature has lent us life at interest, like money, and has fixed no day for its payment"? And Cowper's. Couplet runs: "Men deal with life as children with their play, Who first misuse, then cast their toys away." Nowadays it is not considered the most effective means to preach the building of positive health and prolonging life by maxim or couplet. The present age demands precise and organized work, such as medical research, the maintenance of hospitals, sanatoria and clinics, and also the education of children in the schools. Such definite measures as these appeal to the practical American mind in the fight against tuberculosis. The effectiveness of this present-day mode of promoting a healthy, long life and fighting disease is evidenced by the gradually diminishing death rate of tuberculosis during the two and a half decades in which this method has been used. The results are encouraging. However, tuberculosis will kill more persons between the ages of 18 and 40 than any other ailment. It is still the outstanding preventable, but as yet wholly prevented, disease problem. The Christmas Seal Campaign, under the sign of the double-barred cross, fights disease, establishes the means to promote good health, points the way to healthy old age. It preaches a gospel of sunshine, fresh air, rest and nourishing food, both as preventive and curative agents, "Medicine out of the earth, the sky, the sea, makes getting well a pleasure, and keeping young and MERRY_CHRISTMAS y Uh} HEALTH TO ALL - vivid almost automatic." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Fatleth THE GENERAL BOARD _ MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN. - -__- MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - Mrs, Emma A. Empey Mrs. Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Mrs, Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Ethel Reynolds Smith Rogannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen President First Counselor - - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - 5 = = 5 ms "4 7 Manager - - ~ = = c: Assistant Manager. - a Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mary ConneLty KimBaLt Louise Y. Rosison Auy Brown LyMAN Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL. XVII DECEMBER, 1930 No.