[Vol12 | May 1925 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: National Council of Women Quinquennial Campaign]
National Council of Women Quinquennial Campaign UTAH DIVISION Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, state chairman of the Quinquennial campaign committee for the National Council of Women of the United States, is to be heartily congratulated upon the fact that Utah, under her able leadership, was the first state in the union to complete and forward to the national president, the quota assigned to it.

The women of Utah who belong to organizations affiliated with the National Council of Women are also to be congratulated upon their loyalty to the Council and upon their earnest and successful efforts in raising their portion of funds to help defray the expenses of the great Quinquennial meeting of the International Council of Women, to be held in Washington, D. C., in May, 1925. From the time the International Council accepted the invitation of the National Council of the United States to hold its next meeting in this country, the women began to make plans and preparations for the interesting event.

Affiliated organizations made contributions from their own treasuries to begin the work, and later the states were organized for a general campaign to raise the necessary additional funds.

Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general president of the Relief Society, was named by Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the National Council, as state chairman for Utah, and she was notified that the quota for the state was $3,500. She was also informed that the advance gifts of the two national organizations with headquarters in Salt Lake City—the Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, might 
 apply on the state quota in case this would be agreeable.

To these two organizations.

Soon after her appointment as state chairman, Mrs. Williams, under the direction of Mrs. Moore, called together the presidents of the state organizations which are affiliated through their national groups with the National Council of Women of the United States, to consider the matter of assisting the National Council with its stupendous undertaking.
