[Vol12 | May 1925 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart]

Of Interest to Women Conducted by Lalene H. Hart Will you give some suggestions on making and serving salads?

There is nothing that appeals to the appetite, especially in the Spring, more than attractive and palatable salads.

The so called salad plants, as lettuce, watercress, endive, not only stimulate the appetite, but cool the blood, furnish vitamins and please the eye.

The essentials of a good salad, are crisp greens, good dressing and attractive garnishes.

Tiny radishes, green and red peppers pimentos, beets, carrots and stuffed olives cut in various shapes are very attractive.

The kind of a salad used depends upon its function in the meal.

Serve a green salad of salad plants, cucumbers, radishes, tomatoes or other similar vegetables with dinners or hearty luncheons.

Use meat, eggs, fish, chicken or other substantial salads for the main dish at supper or luncheon.

Fruit or fruit and cheese salads, make good desserts.

Salad plants should be washed very carefully.

Drained well, and chilled thoroughly.

Vegetables that require cooking should be boiled in slightly salted water, until tender, but not broken.

Chill before cutting them in pieces.

If canned vegetables are used, always heat thoroughly and then chill.

Uniform pieces are easier handled and are more attractive.

Do not mash or crush or your salad will look mussy.

An uncooked dressing of oil and vinegar or lemon juice is best for green salads.

For substantial salads, mayonnaise or some.

Form of cooked dressing should be used.

One of the most useful contrivances in a house where there are small children is a baby pen.

I invented mine when my children were small and now it has been handed down to my grand-children with equally good results.

I procured a wooden box two feet eight inches square and eighteen inches deep.

I lined it with two layers of cheap cotton batting fastening it well all round with carpet tacks.

This I covered with medium dark washable material, and tacked it neatly over the edges and down the corners.

Under the latter I placed castors, making it easy being inhospitable.

Hospitality is one of the chief charms of a rug laid in the bottom, under which in winter may be placed a warm brick, completes the pen.

When the baby begins to stand, the edge of the box is just hight enough for him to grasp, and raise himself up.

He can exercise, have all his playthings about him, be protected from draughts and if he falls asleep will be safe for a short time?Mrs. G. J., Mt.

Pleasant, Utah.

OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 267 It is said that busy housewives do not welcome interruptions in their work and for this reason they are often credited with being inhospitable.

Hospitality is one of the chief charms of a woman who is a real "Queen of her Home." Here is a suggestion: Have handy by a piece of handiwork or art work?something you have longed to do, but with your multitudinous homely home duties have never found time to accomplish.

Let it be something simple requiring a minimum of attention, of course.

When your caller comes, piece up your loved bit of work and indulge yourself during his stay.

Whether he be an agent for a brand of carpetsweeper, a solicitor, or your best friend, you will find yourself regretting his departure, and in a short time a finished piece of beautiful work will appear to give you added joy ?Mrs. A. M,,. Tridell, Utah.

When ironing I keep two needles near by, one threaded with white, and the other with black thread.

Any articles of clothing I find with buttons missing, or that needs a few stitches taken, I mend at the time.

It helps to keep our clothes in good condition and saves time both in handling and in mending them.?Mrs. E. S., Bloomfield, N. M. From old shirts in which the tails and half sleeves are good, (even if the elbows and collars are worn out) can be made serviceable and pretty sack aprons for small girls.

The back of the apron can be cut from the front of the shirt.

The buttons are serviceable and pretty sack aprons for small girls.

The back of the shirt makes the front of the apron.

The upper half of the sleeves will make short sleeves, and the pieces left will be plenty for pockets and belt.? Mrs. J. F. S., Heber, Utah.

If the small baby garters cannot be obtained, sew loops of one-half inch tape to baby's stockings, then run the safety pin through the loop when pining them to the panties.

This is a great stocking saver?Mrs. N. R., McCannon, Idaho.

This is a good way to use up old newspapers or wrapping paper.

Take any amount of paper and roll rather tightly to a good sized roll, about as large as an ordinary stick of wood.

Dip in water just enough to wet the paper through.

Do not unroll.

Lay the rolls in the window or any place most convenient and let dry in the sunshine.

Then put away for hot summer days.

You will find they make a good fire when you want to cook something quickly and do not want the house to get hot ?Mrs. V. E., Shelley, Idaho.