[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Russia, under its new form of government, is yet in a condition bordering on anarchy. Fire at Atlanta, Ga.. in May, destroyed 3.000 houses and made 100.000 people homeless, temporarily. Fifty-one nations are represented in the foreign legion fighting in France against the Teutonic armies. Crop reports for 1917 look well in figures, but disastrous storms make the prospect appear different. Over one hundred thousand prisoners were taken by the French. British and Italian armies during the month of Maw At Mainz, Germany, in a food riot early in May, eight persons were killed and 500 others arrested and imprisoned. Thirteen German and Austrian submarines were sunk by Titan war vessels during the third week in May. Coal miners to the number of 120 were killed by a mine explosion at Hastings. Colo., in May. The Turkish campaign of Great Britain continues to record successes for the British in Palestine. The Jews are being driven from Palestine by the Turk-, but the latter's turn for retirement is nearing fast. American war VESSELS already arc rendering effective service in European waters, in coping with German submarines. Economy is being urged upon the people generally: but extravagance and oppression yet seem to be the watchword with the tax-gatherer. Great Britain proposes to enfranchise all women over 30 years of age. The high limit is objectionable that unmarried females will be slow to confess to such advanced experience. The Temple being built by the Latter-day Saints in the CURRENT EVENTS. 393 Hawaiian Islands is practically completed so far as the outside work is concerned, but will not be ready for dedication until October, and there will not be a general excursion as rumored from Utah to the Islands on the occasion of the dedication. "The Kaiser must go," is a demand sent by Socialists in America to Germany. But the German people have the right to choose their own form of government. In Greece, a large portion of the people have voted to depose the king; but Constantine still holds on in Athens, the capital. King George of England is said to be cultivating a garden pitch at Windsor Castle. "He did that same thing when he was a boy. Will he ever be in the Czar's position? France wants Col. Roosevelt on the fighting line there. Undoubtedly the ex-president has a magic for enthusing courageous and skillful fighters. But some are jealous of that popularity. Reliable statistics show that in the present European war at least seven million soldiers have been killed and that forty-five million people have lost their lives. Italy, as well as France and Great Britain, has registered considerable headway against the Teutonic allies during the month of May. The first U-boat sunk by Americans in the war with Germany was the submarine destroyed by the armed merchant vessel Mongolia, when the enemy approached the latter. Mothers wearing high-heeled shoes is given as a more prolific cause of physical deformities in young Americans rejected for military service than is any other source of difficulty. Coal prices are mounting higher and higher in Utah, and at the same time the coal is being shipped out of the State to the great inconvenience and even injury of the people. 100,000 people are said to be starving in northern Syria, yet no aid can be given them because of the German submarine menace, which prevents the transportation thither of food supplies. Utah did well her part in buying Liberty bonds, in the registration of her youths for selective conscription, and in answering the call of the Red Cross. 
, Great Britain, France and Italy sent missions of distinguished diplomats to the United States in May. They were well received, and made partial arrangements for harmonious participation of the United States in the war in Europe. American troops are being sent to the front in France. It is stated that, with the 25.000 regulars now ordered there, at least 100.000 Americans will he on the battle line. Austria appears to have been selected by the Entente allies a the place through which to pierce the Teutonic lines, now that the Germans are being held in check in France. Tornadoes in Illinois. Kansas, Indiana. Kentucky, Georgia, and other States, during the last week in May. took a toll of over 300 lives, with five times that number of people injured and millions of dollars in damage. War revenue taxes are being protested in all parts of the country on the basis that the amount sought to he raised in the United States is beyond that necessary at the present time, and will promote official extravagance and waste. Submarines sank a number of troop and hospital ships during May, as well as many merchant vessels. Yet the loss in this line is decreasing, and shows that the Entente allies are meeting successfully the German submarine menace. Food control is urged upon the national Congress. Of this means actual government distribution, the American people soon will find it both costly and unsatisfactory. "Regulation of the traffic in food stuffs is necessary and sufficient, without an official army of grocers and butchers. Canning vegetables and fruits is being taught in the ladies' clubs in the intermountain country. This is not so great an innovation as may seem to some, since most of the womenfolk in this part of the country, young and the more mature, have had practical home experience in that line The "Relief Society, always in the lead, instituted such courses, with home gardening years ago.