[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: What Women Can Do in Canning]

What Women Can Do in Canning. A HOME IN ST. JOSEPH CITY, ARIZONA. When on a recent visit to the St. Johns and Snowflake stakes of Zion, Sister Empey and the Editor were filled with sympathy for the struggles of the people there, and with admiration for the courage and initiative with which the women of those stakes have met the terrible reverses and losses through alternate food and drought which have afflicted them in the last three years. While in St. Johns we were entertained at the home of Sister Udall and, notwithstanding the many trials these worthy people have endured, we found that brave and resourceful woman with a beautifully furnished home and a comfortable larder. The canned vegetables, especially the canned string-beans served at her table, filled our minds with admiration and our inner man with satisfying suppers. The name of the string-beans which she and others of this town had put up we give here so that all our readers may know the name of the very best string-beans we have ever eaten. They were the Kentucky Wonder and we scoured the town for seed beans to bring home and plant in our city gardens. What can be done by a woman of brains and resource was demonstrated fully to us in our last dinner eaten in St. Joseph City. The President of the Relief Society, Sister Porter, took all of our party out to her new home on the outskirts of the tiny city in her son's automobile. Here we found a small farm only three years old, but enclosed by a good fence, with a neat two story house on it. The father and mother lived in half of the house while the son and his wife occupied the other portion of the house. The young married Mrs. Porter, we were happy to learn, is one of our Relief Society nurses, and she is certainly a woman of superior intelligence. Her generous mother-in-law gave her the credit for the many admirable and wonderful things which we found in this home. Here we found a cellar, very small, but very clean, cement lined and filled even now with canned vegetables and fruit. There were beans, peas, corn, tomatoes, cabbage, asparagus, eggplant, squash, cauliflower, and bottles and bottles of canned beef and mutton; while the fruits, such as peaches, apricots, etc., helped to line the shelves with delicious food stuffs. Talk about war times or food shortage! These people had grown every one of the vegetables and fruits we saw, and instead 
 of letting anything go to waste they bottled it. Full of resources, this young woman could have found it possible to have put these ables into five-gallon cans if she could not have obtained sufficient bottles, as we used to do in the old times; opening the cans in the middle of the winter, rescalding the contents and nutting them into quart bottles, which had by that time been emptied. This was not all  outside the door was a canvas home-made refrigerator, kept wet from a pan of water on top. The milk and butter inside were cool and fresh as if they were in the cellar. Xot only that, but beside this stood a home-made fireless cooker which served its purpose just as well as an expensive one bought from the stores. And again.  inside the sitting-room was an incubator and brooder where both eggs and chicks attracted the interested gaze of the visitors. What has been done by one woman can be done by any other woman. Every article of food which we had on our loaded dinner table, except the sugar, was raised on this small, new Arizona farm. Rest assured we got far more than our dinner in this progressive, up-to-date and lovely home. We came away filled with resolves, new motives and heavenly inspiration to "go and do likewise." What about you dear reader? Can't you join this up-to-date club of Relief Society workers and grow and bottle all vour food stuffs for next winter? OBSTINATE INK STAINS. When ink has been allowed to dry into cloth, it is often difficult to remove. The following method can be relied on to take out every trace of stain and will not hurt the goods if care is taken. A careless worker, however, can leave the material so poorly rinsed that it will soon become full of holes. First, apply a strong solution of bichloride of lime to the stain and wash out immediately in soft, cold water. The spot will have turned a brownish yellow; repeat the process two or three times if necessary, to remove all the black from the stain. Then apply a strong solution of oxalic acid. The druggist will tell you the proper proportion of water to use in this bleach. Immediately after dipping in the acid, rinse well, which means time after time, till every trace of the acid is gone. The rinse water should be soft and cold.