The General Board have appointed Williams as chairman a "War Relief of that Committee, with All Committee. Mrs. Clarissa Smithour efforts to assist with means, with clothing, or food supplies, indeed any and every phase of loyal assistance to our government, will be placed under the direct charge of this committee. Proper instructions, with all necessary details will be forwarded in good time to our stake presidents. Meanwhile, the important thing is to be patient EPISTLE TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 365 and calm. We don't want to knit np quantities of wristers and socks which may prove unsatisfactory or unnecessary, because of haste and lack of concerted action. When we move, we want to move as a solid unit. This is our greatest world opportunity to prove the superiority of our methods, our ideals and our long training. We have long been told we should lead the world  let us not forget that leaders are wise  leaders are never stampeded, leaders are obedient to law. Above all, we want to so clarify our plans and unify our action that whatever we accomplish shall glorify this Society and the Church through supreme efficiency and concerted action. Be assured that the woman who plants and reaps this year, who saves and economizes, is rendering her country her greatest possible service. An army travels on its stomach. Potatoes are needed more than wristers, beans more than socks. Millions of city women can and will knit for the soldiers and sailors, but only women in agricultural districts may help to avert the famine and want which is likely to sweep the whole world. We are gratified to notice in the telegraphic dispatches that the Woman's National Defense Committee, appointed by President Wilson, of which Dr. Anna Howard Shaw is president, and which organization stands at the head of all the societies, clubs, and associations of women in the United States, named Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams as Utah chairman. We rejoice in the enlarged opportunity this offers, and feel sure that