[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]
EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mas. Eumkline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasures. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. IV. JULY, 1917. No. 7 The great war that is upon the face of the War. whole earth has long been predicted. The Savior was very explicit in his delineation of the events in the last days to his disciples as recorded in the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, and in the twenty-first chapter of Luke. In the forty-fifth section of the Doctrine and Covenants the same things are treated at length. Let us quote from this wonderful revelation: "Ye say that ye know that the end of the world cometh; ye say also that ye know that the heavens and the earth shall pass away; and in this ye say truly, for so it is; but these things which I have told you shall not pass away until all shall be fulfilled. And this I have told you concerning Jerusalem, and when that day shall come, shall a remnant be scattered among all nations; but they shall be gathered again but they shall remain until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. And in that day ahull be heard of wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayeth his coming until the end of the earth. And the love of men shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound; and when the times of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that pit in darkness, and it shall be the fullness of my gospel; but they receive it not, for they perceive not the light and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men; 
 * * * And there shall be earthquakes also in divers places, and many desolations; yet men will harden their hearts against me, and they will take up the sword, one against another, and they will kill one another." The Lord then indicates the events that are The Jews. today transpiring in Jerusalem. The British forces are marching steadily and surely towards the city of David. Bagdad has fallen  the Turks are retreating from stronghold to stronghold. The American Jews are holding a great convention as we go to press demanding liberty and autonomy for the Jews in Jerusalem, listen to what the Savior says: "Then shall the arm of the Lord fall upon the nations. And then shall the Lord set his foot upon this mount, and it shall cleave in twain, and the earth shall tremble, and reel to and from and the heavens also shall shake. And the Lord shall utter his voice, and all the ends of the earth shall hear it. and the nations of the earth shall mourn, and they that have laughed shall see their foil}-. And calamity shall cover the mocker, and the scorner shall be consumed, and they that have watched for iniquity shall be hewn down and cast into the fire. And then shall the Jews look upon me and say. What are these wounds in thine hands and in thy feet? Then shall they know that I am the Lord; for 1 will say unto them, These wounds are the wounds with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. I am he who was lifted up. I am Jesus that was crucified. I am the Son of God. And then shall they weep because of their iniquities; then shall they lament because they persecuted their King. And then shall the heathen rations be redeemed, and they that knew no law shall have part in the first resurrection; and it shall be tolerable for them; "And Satan shall be bound that he shall have no place in the hearts of the children of men. And at that day. when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins; for they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived; verily I say unto yon, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day. And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong. and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their Lawgiver." Russia  that land where many of the A Nation Born descendants of the Ten Tribes are found has in a Day. put the key of revolution in the door of liberty. Mine. Mountford's declarations corning the secret groups of Ephraimites in the terror-ridden hind will now have opportunity for public demonstration, and the way will no doubt be opened to preach the gospel in this hitherto hermetically sealed kingdom. The heathen is astir. Note the unbelievable The Pagan changes in China since the recent astounding Nations. revolution there. Many of our people wonder if all the pagans must be preached to before the coming of the Savior. Read what the Lord says in this section: "And then shall the heathen nations be redeemed, and they that knew no law shall be tolerable for them." Again, we call your studious attention to the What the Lord panorama of events prophesied of in this resays About elation written 86 years ago: "For verily These Wars. I say unto you, that great things await you; Ye hear of wars in foreign lands, but, behold, I say unto you, they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own lands. Wherefore I, the Lord, have said, gather ye out from the eastern lands, assemble ye yourselves together ye elders of my church; go ye forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent and inasmuch as they do repent, build up churches unto me; and with one heart and with one mind, gather up your riches that ye may purchase inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you. And it shall be called the New Jerusalem, a land of peace, a city of refuge, and a place of safety for the saints of the most High God; and the glory of the Lord shall be there, and the terror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come into it, and it shall be called Zion. And it shall come to pass, among the wicked, that every man that will not take his sword against his neighbor, must needs flee unto Zion for safety. And there shall be gathered unto it out of every nation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another. And it shall be said among the wicked. Let us not go up to battle against Zion. for the inhabitants of Zion are terrible; wherefore we cannot stand. And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy." Now, the question arises: When are these When? events to take place. Note these words of the same revelation: "And there shall be men standing in that generation, that shall not pass, until they see an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cover the land."
