[Vol4 | December 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Close of the Year]

THE CD >SE < >F THE YEAR. Edith McClenden. The year is drawing to its close. With all its hopes and fears; Tt brought us many sorrows. Tt brought us many tears. It brought us many pleasures; It brought us joys as well; It brought unnumbered blessings, Yes, more than we can tell. And now that it is ending Let each one try to see How very kind and thankful For all this, we can 1m?. And as each year is passing, Let's count our blessing over; We'll find they've brought us greater joys Than we ever knew before. The Red Cross Conference in Denver. Amy Brown Lyman. An executive Conference of the Mountain division of the American Red Cross was held in Denver, October 24, 25, and 26 The Mountain division includes Utah, Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Amy B. Lyman were invited by the Salt Lake Chapter of the Red Cross to attend as delegates. Both Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Lyman are member s of the Civilia n Relief Committee of the Salt Lake Chapter. ^ , A public meeting was held on Wednes day evening, October 24. On Thursday morning a general session was held for delegates. Thursday afternoon and Friday were devoted to section meetings. At the Wednesday evening meeting, with five thousand people in attendance, the speakers were: Mr. Henry B. Davison, chairman of the Red Cross War Council of America; Mr. Harvey D. Gibson, general manager of the Red Cross, and the Rev. Mr. Davis, member of the Red Cross Commission, recently returned from the front in France. These men made a patriotic call for the assistance of the whole American people in c carrying on the great work of the Red Cross, emphasizing the point that the America n Red Cross will help to shorten the war no less than will American arms. Miss Gertrude Vaile, chairman of the Bureau of the Civilian Relief, held two important sessions. She outlined in detail the work to be taken up throughout the division along the lines of home service for the families of soldiers and sailors. It was explained that nearly three quarters of a million of men are now enlisted in the various branches of the army and navy and that the number is increasing daily. In spite of the fact that great care is being taken to select for national service, men without dependents, and in spite of the fact that the Government is planning to grant separation allowances and to secure the assignment of pay, there will be many homes where additional assistance will be necessary, and it is the plan of the Red Cross to give this assistance through the department of Civilian Relief, in the form of home service. The work of civilian relief is not to be considered as charity, but as legitimate aid to those families who have given their husbands and sons to insure the safety, security and honor of the country, and in return are entitled to special consideration by the Government through the Red Cross. During war time, every family is beset with difficulties of various sorts, due to the high cost of living, industrial changes, 
 etc., and it is only natural that these difficulties are greatly increased where the head of the family has given his full service to the nation. The national Government has assumed the responsibility of making financial provision for the families of enlisted men by arranging for separation allowances to be given to the families of the men who assign part of their pay to their dependents. During the interim in which arrangements are being made by the Red Cross and the Government for the permanent care of the families of enlisted men, the Red Cross will, through the Civilian Relief department, give reasonable temporary assistance to those who are in need, and will help families to maintain their standards of health, education and industry by tiding over temporary difficulties. In the administration of home service work Miss Yaile recommended that all applicants for Red Cross home service or relief be referred to the Red Cross Civilian Committee; that this committee make preliminary inquiry, register the cases and then turn them over to the relief organizations of the church with which the applicants are affiliated, for complete investigation. Reports with such records as the Red Cross ordinarily requires for its home service work will then be made by the church societies to the Civilian Relief Committee, and the committee itself with these recommendations in mind, will decide upon the assistance to be given and the plan to be made for the family. Latter-day Saint families of soldiers and sailors who apply to the Red Cross for assistance will thus be turned over to the Relief Society of the "Mormon" Church for investigation; Catholic families will be assigned to Catholic visitors, and Jewish families to Jewish visitors. In all instances wherever possible a family will be assigned visitors of its own religious faith, the policy of relief and treatment of each family, however, to be decided upon by the Civilian Relief Committee. Those applicants not affiliated with any religious sect will be investigated and looked after by the Civilian Relief Committee itself. By assigned pay of the soldier is meant the pay the soldier makes to his family out of his Government allowance. The separation allowance by the Government is a stipulated amount that the Government will pay to the family of the enlisted man. The separate allowance to be made by the Government is very generous and this in addition to the assigned pay of the enlisted man will be ample provision for his family, if it is wisely handled. The enlisted man is compelled to allot his family not more than half of his pay (the pay of an army private in service abroad is $33.00). not less than $15.00. The man may choose to assign more than this, on the one hand, and on the other hand the wife may waive this compulsory allotment by producing evidence of