[Vol4 | December 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: in Israel Mothers in Israel]
GUIDE  LESSONS.  651 
Mosaic  Dispensation. 
(a)  Moses  the  law-giver,  slow  of  speech.  Tablets  of  stone. 
Gave  genealogies  of  people  in  Numbers. 
(b)  Deliverance — Land  of  Canaan. 
(c)  Joshua  governed  25  years.     Inheritance  by  lot. 
(d)  Levites. 
(e)  Fifteen  judges.    Samuel  the  last. 
(f)  Three  kings — Saul,  David  and  Solomon. 
(g)  Kingdom  of  Israel  divided,  B.  C.  975:  Judah  (Rhe- 
hcboam),  Judah  and  Benjamin;  Israel  (Jeroboam),  ten  tribes. 
(h)    Revolt  of  the  Ten  Tribes. 
(i)  Kingdom  of  Israel;  nine  different  dynasties;  nineteen 
kings ;  225  years. 
(j)  Shalmanezer,  king  of  Assyria,  took  Israel  captive  (200,- 
000),  ending  the  national  history  of  the  Ten  Tribes.     722  B.  C. 
(k)  Kingdom  of  Judah  survived  Israel  135  years,  having 
but  one  dynasty  and  20  kings. 
The  Jewish  Captivity. 
(a)  King  Zedekiah,  the  last  king  of  Judah,  ascended  the 
throne  581  B.  C. 
(b)  Zedekiah  carried  captive  to  Babylon,  589  B.  C.  Sons 
slain ;  eyes  put  out.  Jerusalem  taken.  Temple  burned.  People 
taken  to  Babylon.  Lehi  left  Jerusalem  during  Zedekiah's  reign 
before  captivity. 
(c)  Colony  in  Chaldea  ;  comforted  in  captivity  by  the  proph- 
ets ;  chastised  for  their  disobedience  and  transgressions. 
(d)  During  captivity  Babylonian  Empire  overthrown  by 
Medo-Persian  Empire,  538  B.  C.  Media,  descendants  of  Madai. 
son  of  Japheth ;  Persia,  Aryans,  akin  to  the  Medes. 
(e)  Cyrus  found  Jews  an  oppressed  race  in  whose  religion 
he  discovered  a  considerable  resemblance  to  his  own.  (Zoroas- 
ter) (Daniel  43:36").  Permitted  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  to  return 
to  Jerusalem  with  a  large  concourse. 
(f)  Temple  rebuilt.  521-516-515;  dedicated. 
(g)  Samaritans,  descendants  of  the  original  Ten  Tribes, 
mixed  later  by  frequent  intermarriage  with  the  heathen  nations. 
(h)  Ahasuerus  (Xerxes),  a  Persian,  married  Esther  473 
B.  C. 
(i)  Ezra  led  back  another  colony  to  Jerusalem  458  B.  C. 
Stopped  all  intermarriages  with  other  nations. 
(j)  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  arranged  books  of  the  Old  Test- 
ament; rebuilt  walls  of  city  and  fortified  it  under  arms. 
Note:  "Babylonian  captivity  thoroughly  cured  Jews  of 
idolatry.    Henceforth  avoided  mingling  with  idolatrous  nations."

652  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
Semitic  idolatrous  polytheism  vanished.     Pure  spiritual  mono- 
theism advanced. 
The  Ten  Tribes  in  the  North  Country. 
(a)  Ten  Tribes  started  for  Canaan  but  traveled  north.  In 
one  and  one-half  years  achieved  2,800  miles.  Burdened  with 
their  flocks  and  herds,  and  the  old  and  infirm. 
(b)  Led  by  the  Lord  to  a  land  in  the  north.  Were  they  the 
ancestors  of  the  Teutons? 
(c)  Danish  mounds  were  graves  with  jewels  and  trinkets. 
Danish  manner  of  burying  dead  similar  to  habits  of  Israelites. 
(d)  Legends  (Scandinavian).  Heaps  of  stone  as  landmarks 
should  they  wish  to  return. 
(e)  Israelitish  colonies  and  parts  of  families  left  behind; 
rebellious,  infirm,  and  young. 
(f)  From  these  remnants  it  is  affirmed  sprang  the  Norse- 
men and  Teutons  generally.     Old  Testament  prophecies  that  Is- 
rael, especially  Ephraim,  should  be  scattered  among  the  people. 
Conclusion. 
European  history  begins  in  Greece.  "Much  of  the  life  we 
live  today,  with  its  political,  social  and  intellectual  advantages,  its 
music,  painting,  oratory  and  sculpture,  its  thirst  for  knowledge 
and  its  free  institution,  was  transmitted  from  the  Greek  to  the 
Roman,  by  him  to  the  Teutons,  and  so  handed  on  to  us."  (Greece 
was  conquered  by  the  Romans.) 
Medo- Persian  Empire  was  conquered  by  the  Romans  who 
ruled  all  the  country  around  the  Mediterranean.  "As  at  Rome  all 
ancient  history  converges,  so  from  Rome  all  modern  history  be- 
gins." 
QUESTIONS. 
What  can  you  say  of  the  mission  and  immediate  descent  from 
Father  Adam  through  Seth?     (Read  Genesis,  chapter  5.) 
How  did  Adam  learn  to  write  and  keep  records  ?  ( See  Pearl 
of  Great  Price.  Moses  6:5-8;  6:46.) 
What  can  you  tell  of  Enoch? 
How  did  Noah's  three  sons  settle  up  the  earth?  (Genesis, 
chapter  10.) 
Who  was  Peleg?    (Genesis  10:25.) 
When  did  Jared  and  his  brother  go  out  of  the  Promised 
Land? 
Who  are  Jacob's  twelve  sons? 
When  did  the  Ten  Tribes  go  into  the  North  country? 
What  especial  service  did  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  render  to  the 
Jew? What  does  tradition  say  about  the  Danish  mounds? 
Tell  what  you  can  of  Grecian  learning.

GUIDE  LESSONS.  653 
LITERATURE. 
THE   FIRST    CHRISTMAS   DAY. 
"And  there  were  in  the  same  country,  shepherds  abiding  in 
the  field,  keeping  watch  over  their  flocks  by  nig'ht.  And,  lo, 
the  angel  of  the  Lord  came  upon  them,  and  th?  glory  of  the 
Lord  shone  round  about  them :  and  they  were  so'  e  afraid.  And 
the  angel  said  unto  them,  Fear  not:  for,  behold,  I  bring  you 
good  tidings  of  great  joy,  which  shall  be  to  ah  people.  For 
unto  you  is  born  this  day  in  the  city  of  David  a  Savior,  which 
is  Christ  the  Lord.  And  this  shall  be  a  sign  unto  you :  Ye  shall 
find  the  babe  wrapped  in  swaddling  clothes,  lying  in  a  manger. 
"And  suddenly  there  was  with  the  angel  a  multitude  of 
the  heavenly  host,  praising  God,  and  saying,  Glory  to  God  in 
the  highest,  and  on  earth  peace,  good  will  toward  men"  (Luke 
2:8-14). 
Around  the  name  of  Christmas  is  a  halo  of  sweet  songs  and 
stories,  but  none  can  ever  be  dearer  to  the  hearts  of  true  Christ- 
ians than  this  simple  first  tale  of  the  birth  of  the  Christ  child. 
In  these  troublous,  tragic  times,  the  words  of  the  heavenly  host 
seem  more  sanctified  than  ever.  A  prayer  must  be  in  every  God- 
fearing heart  to  hasten  the  day  when  there  will  be  peace  on  earth, 
good  will  toward  men. 
Read  the  story  aloud  and  listen  to  the  melting  music  of  its 
lines.  Think  of  the  picture  it  suggests ;  read  Ben  Hur,  with  its 
fanciful  story,  and  see  how  Lew  Wallace  Has  brought  these  pic- 
tures out  for  use  in  vivid  intensity.  The  following  paragraph  of 
the  first  Christmas  eve  is  taken  from  his  chapter  on  the  coming  of 
the  angels  to  the  shepherds : 
"That  night,  like  most  nights  in  the  winter  season  in  the 
hill  ocuntry,  was  clear,  crisp,  and  sparkling  with  stars.  There 
was  no  wind ;  the  atmosphere  seemed  never  so  pure.  And  the 
stillness  was  more  than  silence ;  it  was  a  holy  hir.h,  a  warning 
that  heaven  was  stooping  low  to  whisper  some  good  thing  to 
the  listening  earth." 
Following  this  he  gives  in  dramatic  form  the  story  of  the 
coming  of  the  angel  to  the  shepherds,  of  the  singing  of  the  heav- 
enly host,  and  the  visit  of  the  shepherds  to  see  the  babe  in  the 
manger.  Ben  Hur  is  one  of  the  greatest  of  stories  based  on  the 
life  of  the  Savior.    Yet  nothing  compares  with  the  Bible  itself. 
Another  tale  that  has  won  great  fame  is  The  Story  of  the 
Other  Wise  Man,  by  Henry  Van  Dyke.  The  spirit  of  the  true 
Christian  is  portrayed  in  a  remarkable  way  in  this  story.  It  deals 
with  an  imagined  fourth  wise  man  who  failed  to  meet  the  other

654  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
three  magi  at  the  appointed  time  and  place,  and  spent  his  lite 
in  search  of  the  Savior — a  life  of  sacrifice,  sorrow  and  noble 
deeds.  His  quest  seemed  unfruitful  till  at  the  last  in  his  dying 
moments  he  was  given  the  vision  of  his  Master,  and  he  passed 
to  his  rest,  knowing  he  had  found  the  Savior  whom  he  had  so 
faithfully  followed  all  his  days. 
A  simpler  Christmas  story — on  which  children  of  all  ages 
from  ninety  to  nine  enjoy — is  The  Birds'  Christmas  Carol,  by 
Kate  Douglas  Wiggin.  It  pictures  the  two  extremes  of  city 
life.  Carol  Rird,  a  rich  little  girl  but  an  invalid,  becomes  inter- 
ested in  the  ragged  little  Ruggleses.  who  live  in  a  kind  of  "pov- 
erty flat"  near  the  Bird  mansion.  Mrs.  Ruggles  is  a  hard-work- 
ing widow  with  a  large  family  on  her  hands. 
Christmas  is  coming,  and  Carol  decides  to  invite  the  Ruggles 
children  to  dinner.  The  excitement  caused  by  this  unexpected 
lionor,  the  preparations  made  for  them  to  appear  "in  style,"  the 
drills  that  Mrs.  Ruggles  gives  her  unruly  youngsters  in  "man- 
ners"— are  very  amusing;  yet  underneath  it  all  is  a  sweet  pathos, 
and  a  life  lesson  on  which  the  reader  loves  to  linger. 
Another  Christmas  Carol  is  that  written  by  Charles  Dickens. 
This  has  become  a  clas-ic.  and  is  usually  studied  in  our  schools. 
The  theme  is  the  redemption  of  Scrooge,  a  miserly  old  business 
man  and  a  bachelor,  whose  love  of  the  dollar  has  driven  every 
natural  instinct  out  of  his  lite  and  left  him  sordid  and  lonely. 
1'is  partner.  Jacob  Marley,  appears  to  Scrooge  in  a  dream.  Mar 
ley  has  been  dead  for  sonic  years  and  he  returns  to  warn  Scrooge. 
of  the  fate  that  awaits  him  if  he  does  not  change  his  life.  Then 
appear  in  turn  three  ghosts — the  ghosts  of  the  Christmas  Past, 
the  Christmas  Present,  and  the  Christmas  of  the  Future.  Scrooge 
is  taken  by  the  ghost  of  the  past  over  the  scenes  of  his  boyhood  ; 
the  ghost  of  the  Christmas  present  asks  him  to  sec  the  joys  of 
the  Christmas  time  which  he  has  long  ceased  to  share;  and  the 
ghost  of  the  future  shows  him  the  end  towards  which  his  selfish 
life  is  leading. 
In  his  terror  Scrooge  wakes  from  the  dream  .strongly  re- 
solved to  mend  his  ways,  and  he  keeps  his  resolve  in  a  most 
generous  way  thereafter. 
The  charming  pictures  of  Christmas,  the  sweet  wholesome- 
ness  of  the  holiday  spirit  that  the  story  reveals  make  this  a  tale 
that  continues  to  give  delight  to  all.  It  should  lx-  read  every  year 
in  our  schools  and  homes. 
The  spirit  of  Christmas  is  reflected  also  by  many  delightful 
songs  and  poems  of  various  kinds.  Among  the  earliest  of  these 
are  the  quaint  old   carols   still   sung  on   Christmas   morning   in

GUIDE  LESSONS.  655 
merry  England  and  elsewhere.     The  following-  stanzas  are  typi- 
cal of  these : 
As  Joseph  was  a  walking 
He  heard  the  angel  sing, 
"This  shall  be  the  birth-night, 
Of   Christ   our  heavenly  king. 
"His  birth  bed  shall  be  neither 
In  housen  nor  in  hall, 
Nor  in  the  place  of  paradise, 
But  in  the  oxen's  stall. 
From  As  Joseph  Was  a  Walking. 
God  rest  you  merry,  gentlemen, 
Let  nothing  you  dismay, 
For  Jesus  Christ  our  Savior, 
Was  born  upon  this  day, 
To  save  us  all  from  Satan's  power, 
When  we  were  gone  astray. 
From  "God  Rest  You  Merry,  Gentlemen." 
Among  the  other  time-honored  Christmas  songs  are  "The 
Cradle  Hymn,"  by  Martin  Luther,  and  "Silent  Night,  Holy 
Night,"  by  Von  Weber,  which  are  perhaps  best  known.  The 
sweet  simplicity  of  their  soulful  lines  make  them  live  forever 
with  us.    Following  is  the  opening  stanza  of  the  last  named  song: 
Holy   night,    silent   night, 
All  is  calm,  all  is  bright, 
Round  yon   Virgin  mother  and  child, 
Holy  infant,  so  tender  and  mild, 
Sleep   in   heavenly  peace, 
Sleep  in  heavenly  peace. 
Luther's  "Cradle  Hymn"  is  to  be  found  in  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Song  Book,  No.  214.  These  and  other  sweet  Christ- 
mas hymns  should  often  be  heard  in  our  homes. 
Other  delightful  Christmas  poems  for  children — and  grown 
folks  too— are  "The  Very  Rest  Kind  of  Christmas  Tree,"  by 
Henry  Van  Dyke;  "Piccola,"  Celia  Thaxter;  "A  Real  Santa 
Clans,"  Frank  D.  Sherman;  "The  Fool's  Christmas,"  Florence 
May  Alt. 
As  a  final  word  to  close  this  pleasant  task  of  outlining  these 
few  lessons  on  "Literature  for  the  Home,"  the  writer  of  these