The Mother By Ivy Williams Stone ECAUSE she was eighty-three, B the birthday party was set for three o'clock. All four of her children had demurred; but the trained nurse, who lived with her under the guise of a young woman needing a home, had been firm in her decision. The weakened heart could no longer endure long hours; there must be no excitement, no confusion, no deviation from the quiet routine that pervaded the little house. Esther, the eldest of the four children, was phenomenally successful. Due to her dynamic energy and organizing ability, she had built up a house dress factory from the humble beginning of three, footpower machines to a payroll of two hundred employees. Three hundred dresses were laid for each cutting; rainbows of color moved with true factory precision from one operator to another. Machines that seemed superhuman embroidered, ruffled, hemmed, bound, overlapped, picoted, hemstitched, buttonholed and sewed buttons. | Under Esther's capable management house dresses for women had ceased to be creations of drab utility. The combined beauty with durability. They sold. First orders became repeat orders. Horace, the only son, was a combination horticulturist, florist, botanist, agronomist. His sisters laughingly described him as being able to name anything that grew by its smell. His gardens were famous. His greenhouses were fashionable; no social affair was truly perfect unless the news story read '"Decorations by Wardman." People called him "Burbank the Second." But the finest achievement of this man who lived to love flowers was a patented rose. He was the first person to file patent on a living thing. He had carefully, painstakingly, tirelessly nurtured and guarded a sport of nature. Gossip whispered he had been offered a fabulous price by an eastern firm. Soon the WARDMAN ROSE would be on the market, and fame was already knocking at the door of the mild mannered man in his middle forties. Marie, the third child, was the social success of the family. Marie was acquainted with every caterer, every beautician, every confectioner in the northern part of the state. THE MOTHER She knew every successful socialite and every "would-be." She was compiling a "Who's Who" of the state for the governor's wife. She had memorized her Emily Post with more zeal than history students display in learning the Gettysburg Address. She knew what to wear and when to wear it; what to say and when to say it. She was beautiful, truly a lily of the field. And aided with her husband's money and beautician's art she was a well preserved matron, beautiful, charming, poised, popular. Her days and nights were filled with social appointments and obligations. Flitting from one event to another, she was as happy as bees in a clover field. Grace, the youngest, was a bachelor girl, to her mother's dismay. No need for a~ husband in her scheme of life. Her apartment was charming, her life as full, her finances as secure as if she had a wealthy, indulgent spouse. Housewives and laborers, students and _ professors found humor and surcease from the humdrum of their own lives in reading her daily syndicated column of jingles and light verse. Her royalties were substantial and gratifying. Her quick imagination and ready tongue saw jingles in every phase of life which she contacted. The fact that she was forty-five and unmarried held no terror for Grace Wardman. She wrote of her own spinsterhood as readily as she composed rhymes of shopmen and golfers, shop girls and debutantes. Al three o'clock Mrs. Wardman was ready to receive her children. Her birthday was the one occasion throughout the year that all the children came together. Soft, comfortable, specially made shoes covered the bunioned feet that had paced the oxen in the slow trek over. 343 the plains. The full sleeves of the black silk dress concealed the arms that were withered and shrunken; real lace fell in soft folds over the hands that were blue veined and twisted from toil. Her deep upholstered chair had been carefully chosen to rest the weakened body that had provided home, food and education for her fatherless children during all their years of dependency. Her hair had been arranged by Marie's favorite beautician. The pale cheeks had been slightly rouged. Around her shoulders the nurse had draped the lavender silk shawl which the busy Esther had ordered sent from a smart shop. It was an exact replica of the one Esther had sent last year, and the year before that. The dining table almost groaned under the weight of the huge cake which had been baked by Marie's favorite confectioner. It stood five tiers high; eighty candles of blue, three of red. Decorations of an ox-drawn covered wagon, of a mounted Indian with drawn bow, of a buffalo stampede, of a camp fire circle, and artfully designed clumps of sagebrush, all testified that Mrs. Wardman had been a pioneer. Horace had sent a basket of his famed chrysanthemums. It was so huge that the nurse had had to carry out two chairs to give it room. And in a tiny silver vase reposed the first blossom from the patented rose. On the table lay an elaborately tooled leather book. "Jaunty Jingles" in gold lettering marked the book as Grace's last achievement. Volume one of a numbered edition, autographed by the author. Now it was the possession of an old lady; later it would be coveted by avid collectors of first editions. Mrs. Wardman smiled as she surveyed her gifts. The shawl, the cake, the flowers, the book of jingles. 344 All representing the achievements of her children. The children for whom she had toiled, and sacrificed and struggled. Each had succeeded in the special line of endeavor that had marked his early inclinations. Esther had always organized others to work; Horace had always loved the soil; Marie had forever stood before a mirror; Grace had always hunted words that rhymed. Enthusiastic, energetic, self centered in their ambitions, all had drawn from the mother who never expressed a wish other than to achieve for her children. "THEY came promptly at three. She had trained them to punctuality. Esther, working until the last minute, still wore her factory uniform. Marie seemed to have stepped from a fashion plate; Horace exuded a faint odor of pungent earth; Grace had a smudge of ink on her face. The nurse hovered near, keeping a watchful eye on her aged patient. "We should serve immediately," Esther cast an apprehensive eye at the clock. "T left young Higgins cutting and he might make a mistake. A hundred dozen dresses must go out tonight." "I am going to the Governor's ball tonight," Marie really tried not | to look too elated, ''so I can't stay too late either. It's a long drive, and I'll need my hair rearranged after we arrive. I am to sit next to the Governor." "T have to get back to my nursery in time to inspect my rose before the watchmen change shifts. I never leave it unguarded a single moment. I refused ten thousand dollars for that sport, and it would be worth stealing." "You might look at my latest contribution to the world's literature," suggested Grace, indicating the toolRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ed leather book. "It isn't exactly Miltonic in its theme, but I'll wager a thousand people will buy it where one reads Milton. It's coming out in a cheap edition, so everyone can afford it. But this autographed edition sells for twenty dollars a copy and already it's oversold." "TI sold a thousand dozen dress- —" began Esther. "I am furnishing the flowers for your ball, Marie," interrupted Horace. "My greenhouses are cleaned out. Not a single flower left." "We have reason to believe Richard will be nominated for lieutenant governor," began Marie. "The party leaders say he is deserving, and with a wife like me—" "Wherever she goes, whenever she goes Everyone gasps at her wonderful clothes; She will go to the Governor's ball, Beautifully tailored, regally tall; a She will sit at the Governor's right Her beauty and jewels a marvelous sight."; J so chanted Grace with a _ wicked smile, bowing before Marie. "Y'm a month behind on my orders," Esther was persistently determined to have an audience. "If I could only get dependable—" "Early each morning I watch them go Out to the sweatshop to sew and sew; They have no leisure for happy play, They never can know a holiday— That they may earn a meagre pay They literally séw their lives away!" This time Grace bowed before her sister Esther, who flashed out resentfully: "It isn't a sweatshop! If - the workers would only pay attention to business they could earn—" "T expect to graft ten shoots from my rose this next spring, a hundred next, and from then on it will be easy. I have an offer—" "The florist sprouted a brand new rose! And now each morning he hurriedly goes With watering cans and rakes and hoes To care for his wondrous, patented rose!" THE MOTHER Horace laughed with Grace, but Esther cried out challengingly: "Why don't you make up jingles about yourself? Poke fun at Grace, the spinster!" "Although she's endowed with a fertile brain; For a splendid rich husband she's hunted in vain; People read all the poems she composes, But her hair has no curl and her cheeks have no roses!" chanted Grace obligingly. "I spare no one," she admitted honestly. "You should rest for a brief while, Mrs. Wardman." 'The nurse spoke quietly but the children understood. "JT have prepared a birthday present for each of you," smiled Mrs. Wardman as she prepared to lean on the nurse's arm. "If I drop asleep you can read these cuttings from my old diary. Read them aloud. I don't believe we should cut the cake, Marie. It is so beautiful, send it to the orphans' home. It will delight those children to eat slices of sagebrush and buffalo." A® she moved slowly, falteringly from the room, even the carefully modeled clothes could not conceal her fragility. Esther glanced apprehensively at the clock, visioning an expensive mistake on the part of her cutter. Marie looked into the long mirror, readjusted a stray curl, noted the time on her bejeweled wrist watch. Grace, suddenly inspired, scribbled on the margin of a newspaper. Horace dropped a preservative pellet into the delicate silver vase that held his creation. "I wish," began Esther, "that Mother would tell us more about our father. He must have come from wonderful stock. Not meaning to be too egotistical, but he must have had good blood in him, or we chil- 345 dren would not have been as successful as we are. Mother. Has been wonderful, of course, but she never expressed a desire to do anything special. She just kept us together after father left, or died, or disappeared, or whatever it was that happened to him. I feel that I must know more about him. No matter what happened, or what he did, the bald truth would be better than the secrecy Mother has maintained about him. Mother sewed, but it was mostly patching old things, she never organized as I do. She raised a garden, but it was potatoes and carrots—not roses. She couldn't have wanted pretty clothes like Marie, because she never wore them. And she never wrote a poem." "T remember I saw her once, looking at a bouquet of roses like she could crush them," added Horace. "Once she told me about an orchid she'd seen in a florist's window that was labeled two fifty. That meant food for a week for the five of us," he added harshly to hide his emotion. "She ought to tell us about Father now we're all grown," Marie added her protest to that of her older sister. 'He endowed each of us with a rare gift. We ought to find out where his people live. All we know is he came from the deep south, was tall like Horace, had dark curls like myself. He had intended to go to the Klondike but stopped off here and fell in love with mother. Then he disappeared when Grace was three weeks old." "Let's read the diary clippings," suggested Grace. "I used to wonder at her patience in keeping it when she had so much work to do. Esther, you begin." Esther opened her sealed envelope. Her glance traveled rapidly over the thin faded sheet, clipped from an old blue ruled day journal. 346 "May 11, 1900. "T had saved twelve dollars to buy a rhymster's dictionary. I had always wanted to write poetry. I know I could, if I could learn words. But I found Marie, 15, was planning to elope with a traveling man, because he promised to buy her the clothes I could not afford. With the twelve dollars I bought her a white coat, high heeled slippers and a pink dress. She has gone back to school." "Oh," gasped Marie, a deep flush of chagrin crawling up her neck and face. "O, I never knew she wanted a dictionary of rhymes. Truly, I didn't know. But you, none of you, can understand how I wanted pretty clothes! They were my, life!" "My turn,' cut in Horace brusquely. "April 1, 1900. "T tell the children that I visit with old lady March every Wednesday evening. But I do their family ironing. With this money I am buying Horace a set of garden tools, 500 pounds of new fertilizer, and a share of water stock. Some day he will develop a beautiful flower, like I have always wanted to do." Marie seemed anxious to disclose selfishness for the others. With shaking fingers she ripped open her envelope: "July, 1900. "Today I baked fifty dozen rolls for a lodge picnic. It was terribly hot in the little kitchen. I made a down payment on a round shuttle, drop head machine for Esther, and stopped at the cobbler's to have my shoes resoled. He said the uppers couldn't stand a fourth sole, but they have to. I had been planning a new dress for myself, but Marie needs a party gown," "You don't all need to look so hard at me," Grace challenged, as the other three turned their gaze upon her. "January, 1903. "Esther is teaching a bunch of girls piece work in sewing. Horace has a job in a nursery and goes to night school. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE He studies rotation of crops, soil conservation, fertilizers and grafting. Marie will marry soon and Richard will make her happy with money and social position. Grace has the rhymster's dictionary I am now too old to study. She never looks in a mirror, but runs around the house muttering rhymes. She got two dollars for a little jingle I told her." "Mother composed your first poem herself," accused Esther. "And she bought your first sewing machine," countered Marie. "And she loved flowers and the great out doors, too," added Horace. "And she bought you fancy clothes to save your soul," Grace looked pointedly at Marie. "She washed and ironed and baked and went near barefooted for us." Horace's tone of self-accusation included his three sisters. "She could have run a factory, or developed a rose. She loved pretty clothes too, and could have written poetry herself, if she had had a chance to study. I remember she went away, suddenly, one Christmas. We didn't have any presents, because it took all her money to pay railroad fare. She never told us where she went, or what for. I always thought it was something about Father. She ought to tell us now, I'd like to locate his people. I'd like to visit his grave." His sisters nodded approval, just as the nurse came in, extending the old, faded diary. "She fell asleep and this book dropped from her hand. She had it marked at the page where it fell opén." By right of being the only son Horace reached for the old, worn book that had served his mother as a diary. From the open page he read aloud to his tense little audience: "Christmas Eve, 1905. "The warden telegraphed me Jefferson is dying. Poor dear, darling, hot headed Jeff! "I reached Jefferson before he died. I A TRIBUTE promised to have his body cremated, and never to tell the children that he killed a man, in a drunken brawl over cards." kok Ok Horace closed the little book and called the nurse. "She sleeps?" he asked anxiously. "As peacefully as a little child," she answered. "But she will waken soon, quite refreshed. She always does." "Please replace the book where it fell. Perhaps it would be best not to tell her that we saw it." The nurse nodded understandingly as she left the room. A TENSE, awed silence fell over the little group. The first blossom of the famous rose exuded a 347 faint, delicate odor; the silken shawl fell from the chair to the floor; the candy Indians glared at the buffaloes on the ornate cake; the book of autographed poetry lay unopened on the table. The two hundred factory workers might have gone on a strike. The watchman might have been chloroformed and the precious rose bush stolen. The presses of the great daily might have been stilled, waiting for copy from the popular poet. The chair at the Governor's right hand might have remained vacant during the entire banquet. The four children sat chastened, chagrinned, humbled, contrite, silently waiting for their mother to waken.