Understanding Our Children By Virgima B. Jacobsen ITTLE Jean, age five and oneA) half years, cuddled up close to ~ her mother on the davenport after their evening hour of stories. "Mother, I just love Ronny. I am going to marry him when I grow up." Jean made this astounding announcement without any sign of embarrassment. Her wise mother was equal to the occasion. 'Does Ronny like you, too?" "Not very much. But I love him. Sometimes in kindergarten I just go up and squeeze him, I love him so much." "Why do you love him?" asked her mother very much interested in the youthful confidence. "Oh, he is such a nice boy. He is never mean to the girls, and he is polite in school. Some of the boys are so mean, but Ronny never is." What a fortunate thing that this wise mother had inspired the confidence of her child at this period in life. How understanding of her to have met the situation as she did, instead of having shamed or repulsed the confidence as many mothers do. The love impulse in children is as natural as breathing. A happy child is surrounded with love; he loves those around him because they love him. Therefore, it is natural for him to look for love and understanding at school, among his playmates no matter where he may be. The child's first love is his mother, or the individual who nourishes and cares for him. This all-absorbing love usually lasts until the child is two or three years old. Then he finds new interests in his playmates. This interest may be in either boys or girls of his same age. Sex preferences play a small part, if any, in their attachments. At this stage they resort to all sorts of tricks to attract the attention and admiration of the other children. They embrace and kiss simply as an outward expression of affection for each other. HE next stage is reached during the early school life. For the first time they become fully aware of themselves as girls and boys. At this period a decided hostility seems to exist between the two. Boys, particularly, seem to look upon girls with decided disdain; something created purposely to annoy them. They frequently even resort to cruelty to girls in order to show their disdain to the other boys. This attitude does not always hold true with separate individuals. Often little boys of eight and ten prefer and enjoy the companionship of a certain little girl, but when in a crowd of boys they usually assume the gang attitude. WHEN the age of puberty arrives during the early teens, there is a decided change in the interests and attractions. Each becomes aware shyly, though pleasantly, of the other. The attraction between the sexes has begun. If at this time a child has the wise guidance and sincere confidence of an understanding parent there is little to fear. This is a beautiful period of development in the child and a wise parent will help a child to understand the mental and physical changes within him. There is nothing shameful or unworthy in his interests in the opposite sex. It is not a weed to be pulled up and cast out. It should be trained 374 and cultivated, nourished and pruned a bit, a stray wisp clipped off here and there, until at last, a dependable and healthy growth rewards our efforts. Countless questions will come into the minds of boys and girls of this age. If they have learned that mother and father are honest with them in all things, even in the matter of answering perplexing questions, they will come to the right source for information. But, if they have found in the past that mother and father avoid answering those all-important questions, they will seek their knowledge elsewhere. Parents cannot afford to let themselves be deceived in this matter. If their sons and daughters of this age are not coming to them for biological information they are getting it elsewhere in a manner usually far - from right. Their informants are generally playmates who have been misinformed themselves. The time to begin this biological education is when the child. First RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE comes to its mother with the question, "Mother, what are these two little pimples on my chest?" Or similar questions which come into every normal child's mind. If mothers and fathers have been honest and sincere in answering these questions, children will continue to have confidence in them when more serious questions come into their minds. Parents who shirk this responsibility are losing some of the greatest joys in life. Following the age of puberty and the first awakening of interest in the opposite sex, comes adolescence and the beginning of real love for the opposite sex. If the child has had the wise and loving council of his parents he understands the impulses within him, and knows how to control them. He knows that they are natural and beautiful, and if properly guarded will bring him supreme happiness when he reaches adulthood. But it very largely rests with the parents just what will come of this love impulse.