Notes to the Field Special Activities ]X hearty accord with the Churchwide program of relief and recovery, the Relief Society has suggested two Projects for Summer activity within the organization. Details of these have been sent to every Stake. There is an opportunity in these great projects for the members of the Church, forgetful of self, to grow spiritually, to attain unity and happiness, if they enter whole-heartedly into this cooperative enterprise. Because a brother or sister has had misfortune, he should not be deprived of the blessings of service. There is a wonderful opportunity of knitting together the lives of those whom the forces of the world have tended to separate. Let us build to a high degree the "we" feeling, and make every effort to give all the joy of cooperation. When the Relief Society meets together to sew as a group, every effort should be made to get the sisters out and make them feel they are a part of the group giving service and getting the joy that comes from the social experience. Neighborliness might well be revived—three or four uniting on a special project. Report blanks have been sent to the Wards and Stakes of the Church. It is hoped that a careful record will be kept upon these sheets. The Ward will forward its report to the Stake, where it will be compiled and sent to the General Office. It is safe to say that at the conclusion of the year there will be a record of achievement made, difficult to equal. Text Books A® already announced the advance course of Relief Society lessons will be published beginning with the August issue of the Relief Society Magazine. It might be well, however, to suggest the texts which will be the basis of the lessons in all courses: the New Testament for Theology; Civic Sociology, by Ross, will be used again for Social Service; and the three Biographies — - Abraham Lincoln, The Life of Julia Ward Howe, and The Life of Alice Freeman Palmer, will be the texts for the Literary course. These books are all avaliable at the Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, where they may be obtained for study during the vacation period. W ork and Business "THE names of Work and Business class leaders that were given to the committee at April conference have been sent to the firms named below. We hope that you will receive some advertising material that will be helpful as sudgestions for your handicraft sections. The American Crayon Co., 116 New Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California. The Q. P. Craft Co., Inc., Sandusky, Ohio. Fireside Industries Inc., Adrian, Michigan.