Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon UNE—now in the month of roses, sunshine and love may good will vie with nature, in bounteous gifts. MARIE JOSE, Belgian crown princess of Italy, before engaging in Red Cross work in eastern Africa assisted the war cause at home by eliminating all luxuries and all wastage of light and heat and reducing food costs in the royal palace at Naples. PRINCESS ELIZABETH and Margaret Rose, of New York, age 10 and 6 are being carefully trained towards the possiblity of accession to the throne of England. The methods of the late Victoria are still paramount in the royal household in spite of modern trends. MARGARET MOORES MARSHALL, research expert on the status of women in work, says, "Besides training, the assets of personality and character would help in raising the minimum wage for women by ability to do one's work well and intelligence to follow through and complete the task. If women would dedicate their work along this line they would help raise the minimum wage for all women. FiLIZABETH CLEVENOT has been awarded a medal and named officer of the Tunison order of Miham Iftikar for research work in Northern French Africa. Only two women have attained this special rank. SONJA HENIE, Olympic FigureSkating Champion, has decided to become professional and is dancing her way on skates to Hollywood. AMELIA EARHART is_planning another solo flight, this time around the world. Purdue University is helping finance the trip and cooperating in the preparation of the "flying laboratory" for research work in aeronautics. MAY SMITH, age 22, of Idaho, made her maiden plea before the state supreme court, after which she had much profound advice for women aspirants to the legal profession. The reporters called her a second Portia. URIEL LA VON GOODSPEED, of Utah, won a Dorothy Stone scholarship award which carries a film contract and six months training in drama. ME. MARIA SAVAGE is still a member of the Metropolitan opera though past 71 years. She says of all the great stars Caruso was the most pleasant to work with. AMELIA WOOLLEY WARDROP, 80, one of Utah's most beloved mothers, and a devoted Church worker, died early last month. She was an honored member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, a Gold Star mother, and an untiring worker in the Relief Society. EARL BUCK will probably quit writing for awhile and devote her talents to the care of the twin boys recently adopted. GERTRUDE ATHERTON'S "The Golden Peacock," Margaret Banning's "The Iron Will," Ann Rand's "We the Living," and "The Lost Generation," by Maxine Davis, are néw books of unusual interest. 372. WHERE THE SEGO LILLIES GROW By Lydia Hall There's a trail I love to follow In a western desert land, On the shining hills it leads me Through the rocks and through the sand, Rocks and sand agleam with color Like a crimson sunset glow To a place of wondrous beauty Where the sego lillies grow. I have seen the streets of cities With their many brilliant lights, I have seen the mossy woodlands Luring in their cool delight, But today I can't help thinking Of that trail and well I know That when springtime comes I'm going To the place where segos grow. O fair flower of dear Utah May I always find you there With your snowy cup and fragrance, Always beautiful and rare, And at last in life's sweet evening When the sun is sinking low Let me lay me down to slumber Where the sego lillies grow. TO MY WIFE By Carlton Culmsee You have not given me all, You will give more. If my need sharpens and I call, You'll find another store Of helpfulness behind some hidden door. This chapel where you dwell Is curious of design. There is no inmost cell With a last shrine. Each year unlocks a room more large and fine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE TIMPANOGOS By Belle Watson Anderson Thou weird, mysterious woman. Cold and passionless as stone, Mystic veils float o'er thy forehead, Costly robes adorn thy throne. Thou art beautiful in winter While in wedding gown you wait Bridesmaids dressed in white ensembles, But the bridegroom comes too late. Terrible has been thy conflict, Wild throbbing heart has stilled, Silent feet, and noiseless turnings, All thy dreams still unfulfilled. Thou hast seen a thousand sunsets Paint the skies behind the hill, Thou hast known the night's pale moonlight Languidly—without a thrill. Gorgeous at the dawn, as humble, High achievement, unproclaimed, Silent words—tho' strong as granite Thou hast greatest heights attained. Since sweet childhood days you've waited So constantly at my side, Others tired, strayed and wandered, Thou wer't mine—whate'er betide. Some day, I shall loose my turmoil In the prayer of faith supreme Sometime, I shall know thy stillness, In a happy, trusting dream. But that waiting, endless, changeless Always longing to be free, That hast turned thy stone to quartzite, Fit thee for eternity. Been SMILES By Susan Rey Most things get faded and worn When we use them every day But wearing a smile to work Improves us in every way.