A NEEDED ADMONITION T is a strange thing that even religious organizations in order to raise funds will indulge in games of chance, and raffling is one of them. It is dangerous doctrine to say that the end justifies the means. Organizations had better do without means that they think they very much need than get such in any questionable way. The Church of Jesus Christ has come out again and again against raffling and all games of chance. Spite of this we find occasionally people trying to get around it by selling a chance and giving something that they claim is worth the price for which the chance is sold. In the Millennial Star of March 26, 1936, Apostle Joseph F. Merrill, President of the European Mission, in an editorial calls attention to an item appearing in the public press in which a Vicar criticised conditions in his parish. He made reference to "a growing curse of betting and gambling that is ruining homes and characters." He said, 'There is little or no parental effort to give a true motive for life because they don't know it themselves." "Betting and gambling are sins— they are grave violations of a Christian moral code. They are debauchers of character, devices of satan to bring unbelief, sorrow, distress and suffering to God's children. Losses and disappointments due to gambling —betting is a species of gambling— not infrequently lead to crime and suicide. These vices are a black blot on the character of any person who indulges in them. They are usually secretly engaged in, for none given to these vices is fully trustworthy, and therefore cannot be given a re- EDITORIAL sponsible position where the handling of money is involved. No trust company will go surety for a known gambler. "No practice or activity that aims to get something for nothing is truly honest. Hence no type of betting can ever be honest. Oh yes, we know; some respectable people engage in betting. But this does not make betting respectable. No vice is made a virtue even though a bishop engages in it. How unfortunate! Even in this 'green and pleasant land' betting appears to be so general that it has become a national vice. No wonder the Vicar called his parish a godless place. A faith strong enough to take the people regularly to divine services cannot exist in any community given to any species of gambling. Gambling and a love of God cannot dwell together. "The Vicar spoke of parents' failure to motivate properly the lives of their children. Those who have no faith can hardly develop faith in others. Is this not the real reason why the gentleman can complain of a 'godless indifference'? For unless the parents are God-fearing, the children are not likely to be. 'Like 401 begets like,' faith begets faith. No man can have a greater responsibility than that of parenthood. God will not hold him guiltless who does not try to develop faith in his children. "Readers, a strong active faith in our living Redeemer, Jesus Christ, is the greatest need of the age, both for the individual and the nation. If such a faith were universal, vice of every type would disappear and love would rule the world. God hasten the coming of such a day, for come it will!" LTHOUGH we have announced that we would not publish any more Magazine Drive reports until our next fall drive, we publish herewith one more. We have learned that for some unknown reason this report did not reach our office. The Presidency, Lillie C. Larson, Emma S. Christiansen and Elnora A. Christiansen did all the canvassing, and were delighted with the increase in subscriptions in their Ward. Ward Stake Enrll. No. Sub. % Mayfield Gunnison 64 63 98 AND NEVER WILL Jim: "Too bad, ain't it, that Repeal ain't balanced the Budget, nor reduced taxes, nor pushed off the bottlegger, nor chased off unemployment, nor brought true temperance, nor nothin'!" Joe: "Yeah, but Uncle Sam orter ha' known by observation that nobuddy ain't never pulled theirself outa' trubble with a corkscrew!"— Union Signal.