First Aid for the Picture Passion By Lorene Pearson seat in Dorothy's room. Ruffled dimity curtains softened the late afternoon sun. "You do have a lovely collection of pictures," said Madeline. Dorothy held up her best-loved print again. In the distance were exquisite, blue-shadowed mountains, in the foreground a dim figure paced to and fro on a stone balcony with eyes on the hills. Then Dorothy placed it in her gay cretonne folder with all the others and sighed. "I have a perfect passion for pictures, lots of pictures," she said, "but the interior decorators say, not too many pictures on the walls. Couldn't afford to have any more framed." "T know how you can have all the changes of pictures you want and still not buy any new frames, nor have too many on the walls at once," announced Madeline. Thoughtfully she examined the room. There was a little maple desk against the far wall. 'The largest picture in the room hung over it, a lovely "Alice in Wonderland"; the frame was beautifully hand-carved from maple wood and complemented the softly curved lines of the little desk. Pie girls sat on the window "Tt's lovely, I know," murmured Dorothy, "but I've outgrown 'Alice' just a bit. Or maybe I'm just tired of her. She's been there for years and years. I asked mama if I couldn't take her down and put up this blue print without a frame. She was a little disgusted I think. She said girls were a big problem because they changed their minds so often— first they have a positive passion for one thing and then in no time at all Besides, L a positive passion for something else. And I guess she's right." Madeline looked carefully at the other pictures on the walls. There were just enough for the small room. There were two hung in identical black frames, side by side, and there was a gilt frame around a dainty wispy little girl with a basket of flowers—the kind a six-year old loves. And Dorothy was fourteen. "Dorothy, why don't you use the same frames and put different pictures in them from time to time? My cousin Peg does." Dorothy instantly tripped over to the maple desk and lifted down her "Alice." "I've never fussed with the backs of one of these things, but I guess there's no reason why I can't learn." The back of the frame was nailed on all sides, but a letter opener easily dislodged the fastening. They lifted off the cardboard back and then the fragile picture. "Now take this cardboard," instructed Madeline, "and cut your large pictures to fit it, just a wee bit smaller if anything. If any of the pictures are a little too small for this one but too large for either of those black frames, paste it on a mat and cut the mat the size of this cardboard back. Nail the cardboard back on the frame then, but leave-the nails out of the top side so you can easily slip pictures in and out when you want to change them. Of course that means you have to do something about the upper edge of your picture to give it extra strength for the pulling out and putting in. Peg pastes a strip of paper tape along the top and that does the trick." Dorothy took her lovely blue print out of the cretonne folder. They 388 set to work and in no time at all the new picture hung above the desk in all its mystically blue glory. Dorothy danced around the room. "It's like putting on a new dress, everything is changed. And think, first thing in the morning the sun will find my beloved picture and I will wake to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE see it. And tonight, right now, let's light my candle under it." Dorothy's bayberry candle sputtered, then the flame flickered softly upward and illumined the picture and left lovely shadows in the carved niches of the frame.,