Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary New Zealand Mission President Beatrice DalFront Row: ziel, First Counselor Florence P. Ross; back row: Westlake, Secretary Catherine G. Second Counselor, Ruby Thompson. "THE above picture is the Presi- 'dency of the most southern branch of Relief Society in the world. These dear sisters are fully alive to the interest and appeal of Relief Society work, and have sent to the office some very beautiful hand embroidered linen, a sample of their thrift and skill. This message and this picture from the sisters so far away is merely another evidence of the fact that distance is forgotten, and that the band of sisters the world over becomes one in the aims and purposes of our great Relief Society organization. A newspaper. To quote from the paper: "A unique organization, that goes quietly about extending aid to families, as far away as Orange, on one hand and Evadale on the other, is the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. "Heading the organziation now is Mrs. Sadie Williamson, and more than a score of women meet regularly, sometimes at the church, sometimes at the homes of members, putting up fruits and vegetables, making quilts and doing other sewing. "A part of the church, which is on a high knoll in the Williamson community, of which the women are particularly proud is the large kitchen. Through their own efforts, the women have furnished the kitchen, and stored in the low shelves at this time nearly 250 cans of vegetables and fruits. All were grown in the gardens of the Relief Society members. During the canning season the women assemble and make this preparation to serve the needy. "Just how much food in past years has been given away, or how many quilts have been made and either given outright, or sold and the proceeds turned over to charity, is a matter which even the Relief Society members could not estimate. "The Williamson Settlement itself is one of the oldest in Orange county, or this section, being established at a point on the route where many thousands of cattle were driven to market on the Old Spanish Trail. It is estimated that it is about seventy years old, and many of the descendants of the former settlers now live in the community." 396 Texas Mission VERY interesting report of the Williamson Organization reached the office through the columns of While the organization is officered entirely by Latter-day Saint women, there are many who assist the Relief Society in its work who are not members of the Church. Western States Mission A MOST interesting and full report of the splendid activities of the Western States Mission comes to us through the President, Sister Winnifred B. Daynes. This organization is animated by a real Relief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is an evidence of that which is taking place allover. A year ago they were disorganized, now they have an enthusiastic group of women who are active members in every sense. They have a stock of fruit and vegetables prepared, they have improved their Relief Society rooms, and furnished their kitchen with the latest improvements. They are a fine group, working in harmony, and eager to carry on the splendid work of the organization. The second picture is of the Denver organization, with Sister Daynes and her helpers in the center of the group. ° PUEBLO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Society spirit, and the marvelous development of the work is manifest in the accounts we have of the growth of its organization. The above picture is that of the Pueblo Branch Relief Society. It was sent to the office some time ago, and the account of the activities of this organization within the one year The Mission represents 25 organizations, with a membership of 514. These cover six of our Western States, and the reports from the Mission show that the work is practically on the same plane as that conducted in the various Stakes of the Church. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 397 DENVER RELIEF SOCIETY Cache Stake A MOST interesting account of the Garden Project of the Fifth Ward Relief Society of the Cache Stake was sent into the office. We are submitting this report in full, as we think it offers excellent suggestions that may be put into effect in all parts of our Relief Society work: "For the past two and a half years our Fifth Ward Relief Society has developed a garden project that has proved very pleasant. A garden chairman gathers or accepts plants, bulbs and seeds that are the surplus of their home gardens. These are offered to any members of the Society who wish to plant them. There is no cumbersome attempt at exchange. The beginning gardener has nothing to exchange for her plants except the labor of caring for something that will be enjoyed by all who see it. On the other hand, the full garden has no room for more plants, but it is heartening to find how many persons are eager to give roots and seeds for no other return than the pleasure of sharing them. It is an effort at cooperative enrichment of the gardens and the only records of the transactions are the plants that live and the feelings of friendliness that last even after the flowers die. "The plants are wrapped in paper and brought to the meeting. Sometimes they are all placed in grateful hands before the meeting starts. If not, about three minutes of the meeting time are used to announce what plants are homeless. When possible, the flowers of the plant are brought to show exactly what the roots will produce. We have often given Iris roots with the blooms upon them. _But most plants cannot be divided in the blooming season, and so we show the flowers, with a brief announcement of the name of the flower and the fact that roots will be offered later. House-plants are shown in the Winter. "The marginal gardener who is almost too busy to work outside of her house can carry home a Michaelmas Daisy, and if she can just get it into some ground that is watered, it will probably bring her lovely blossoms the next Fall. Also, the gardener that gave the root will have lovelier daisies next Fall because the roots were thinned. It is a plant parable: 'He that loseth his life shall save it.' "At first we tried handing out the plants during the meeting, but it stole time from the lessons which 398 are already crowded into such a short period. So we changed to our present system of a very brief notice in meeting with questions and answers before and after the sessions. Something like a little garden club may gather and discuss ways of starting rose slips or storing dahlias. Of course many of the roots die because of inexperienced handling, but the gardener can ask the reason for her failure and try again. "Some very choice plants have been passed to new gardens. Here and there in the Ward you may see thriving little shrubs that were handed out as tiny roots. These are the physical gains; they are worthwhile, but the main reward is spiritual. The work is one more avenue of interest and friendliness. "We are making this detailed report with the thought that some other Ward might enjoy such a project as much as we have." Minidoka Stake E think Minidoka Stake should be justly proud of the record made during the last year. In August the Stake sponsored a tonsil clinic, during which time a number of children who had been physically unfit for school were given proper attention. The doctors cooperated with the Relief Society sisters, and did a most excellent work. This continued even after the close of the clinic, as a part of a project is to have all the children whose throats and eyes needed attention, looked after. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE During the entire year the Stake was vitally interested in the Visiting Teachers' work. In the beginning a banner was awarded to the Ward having 100% teaching accomplished. It was not long until two Wards claimed this distinction, and so there had to be a permanent award made to the Ward which had 100% Visiting Teaching during the entire year. This Ward was also given a cash prize for its fine achievement. In January of the present year a project to bind the Magazine was undertaken, and has been carried on very successfully. The Stake Singing Mothers have done excellent work, and are in great demand throughout the Stake. They have furnished the singing for various gatherings, including Stake Priesthood Meetings and Stake Conferences. For three years the Stake has conducted its Annual Banquet for the Board Members and their partners. The decorations have been of a patriotic character, including the Valentine motif. On March 17th,