Ensembles in Flower Arrangement By Jean Cox LOWERS should belong to the container just as much as the coat to the dress, the shade with the lamp, or the hangings with the floor coverings. Pleasing floral arrangement results when flowers and vase belong to each other. A division of interest in the selection of containers and flowers, jars or annoys. Whatever these may be there should be a feeling of unity and fellowship between the flowers and the bowl in which they are arranged. This may be accomplished by having analogous or contrasting effects. Texture and quality of the container should also harmonize with the flowers it contains. No container should seem crowded in correct flower arrangement. Three, five, or seven blossoms in a container suitable to the kind of flowers are much more attractive than a mass of flowers which rob themselves of their own beauty. In flower arrangements which belong, color is probably the most important factor. Hues of flowers should be repeated in minor or major accents in the bowl. For example, a green glass bowl is very effective where leaves are about the same intensity as the bowl. Leaves brighter still, if small, may also be used as the intermediary between the flowers and the vase. Long stemmed zinnias are usually effective in an orange colored bowl when the mass of bloom of the taller flowers is tied to the bowl with a few short stemmed flowers heavy with foliage. The kind of vase or bowl should be proportionate to the length of the stems. To be effective, tall containers should have long stemmed flowers which stand out gracefully above the top of the vase. Asa rule, stems inclined to stiffness should be more than twice the heighth of the container. The length of the stems in low bowls is somewhat proportionate to the size of the bowl, and also of the flowers themselves. In any event the bow! Should not seem immersed with the flowers that are in it. Neither should the bowl seemingly engulf the flowers. In accordance with the Greek law of proportion, the vase or bowl should not cut the stems into halves, thirds, or fourths of their height. Neither should the stems be so short that a stiff arrangement results. CONTAINERS like floors and floor coverings must be suffciently strong in color or texture to hold up the different flowers for which they are most appropriate. A hobnailed glass bowl of proportionate size is more effective with light colored iris, yellow or pink roses and light blue delphinium than it is with dark red roses. Where the glass bowl is heavy and richly cut this does not hold as the color of the darker flowers is repeated in the facets. This type of bowl is appropriate for rich colors and heavy flowers. Frequently a bowl having several colors on an ivory background lends itself to many kinds of flowers. A crown ducal bowl with decorations in yellows, reds, blues, and greens catches the color of the flowers in it and is effective with almost any kind of flower or combination. A sonnet in the arrangement of iris was obtained by placing three stems of uneven length of light blue 352 iris having almost a_ periwinkle fringe in a blue green Japanese vase. Several leaves of iris helped make this arrangement a delightful bit of color against a stippled tan wall paper. Pewter bowls are especially charming with delphinium and small pink roses. Small bowls with wire frogs are exquisite with forget-menots and daisies. Sprays of maiden hair or other fine leafed fern enhance the beauty of flowers in pewter baskets. The satiny texture of pewter makes it a better background for feathery bouquets than for bold arrangements of flowers. A low bowl with blue ianthus leaves on a mustard yellow background was an effective container for yellow centered daisies which are twin sisters to black-eyed susans. This was also especially attractive with yellow button chrysanthemums. It was probably most beautiful with yellow and peach colored Iceland poppies which seemed more colorful in contrast with the blue design of the beautifully proportioned bowl. There is also need of conformity of line as well as color. Heavy peonies with their aggressive foliage are inclined to belittle their container. For effective arrangement these large flowers should be placed in floor jars sufficiently heavy in appearance to support these mammoth flowers. These jars may be of bold subdued color which are as dark in value as the floor or rug on which they stand. Designs should not be too spotty in effect. The effectiveness of these bold flower arrangements will be partly determined by the background of walls and hangings which should be unobtrusive. The most attractive table decorations are those which harmonize with napery, china, and glass. A yellow damask was enhanced with a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE floral arrangement of salmon and yellow Iceland poppies in a spherical Venetian glass bowl. With these were used yellow Wedgewood service plates with amber and crystal goblets. This arrangement received superlative praise. A pale green cloth was most charming with stately yellow and rose gladiolus with which there was a generous allotment of shining leaves of this attractive cut flower. Pottery bowls of neutral shades offer interesting arrangements as they absorb and reflect the color of the flowers. A gray green bowl seemed to belong to yellow roses which were cut with more than usual amount of foliage. It was also beautiful with shasta daisies and California poppies. But the combination which was voted best was light blue delphinium and California poppies with'a generous portion of foliage. Zinnias with their gray green foliage were also effective in this bowl. Part of this was due to the fact that the bowl was sufficiently heavy to hold up their weight. In flower arrangement this point should not be overlooked. This low bowl, however, was not effective with asters, as the small amount of blue in the gray green was not a good background for these lovely fall flowers. For these small stemmed flowers the bowl was too heavy without more foliage than asters provide. A yellow and white Wedgewood bowl seemed to belong to a bunch of calendulas. These reflected sunshine in a dark hall. A lovely old hexagonal cream pitcher on which the decoration was almost an even arrangement of small irregular dots and splashes were unusually attractive with calendulas which shaded light to dark yellow with three orange ones for minor accent one of which was dark centered. FATHER HAS HIS DAY "THE beauty of autumn and winter bouquets may be prolonged to almost match the enduring qualities of their containers by a rather simple trick. If dusty, wash leaves, freshly gathered, with soap and water. Rinse and dry. Dab corn oil on the smooth side with cloth or small brush. This oxidizes and makes them look as though freshly washed by a gentle rain. If the room température does not get too high, these will keep for weeks or months providing they are kept in water. Dipping autumn berries in oil or brushing them with a soft brush immersed in it will also keep them from withering. Oregon grape and box lend themselves especially well to this effective treatment for winter decorations when arranged in pottery bowls which reflect colors of the leaves and berries. The same rules of fitness apply to hanging baskets as well. Glass bowls are wonderfully alluring when the roots as well as foliage are visible. A hobnailed bowl was filled with myrtle and placed on a raffia woven two inch base from which the raffa thongs were carried to the bracket A 353 on which this unusual hanging basket was suspended. SATISFACTORY collection of flower containers need not represent any great investment. Bargain counters in crockery departments frequently have choice bowls at much less than original price. One much prized Crown Ducal bowl which had an original mark of $8.00 was purchased for 50c because of a glaze crack. A Venetian glass bowl was obtained at a clearance sale for one-fourth of its marked price. A most satisfactory container for semilong stemmed flowers was a twelve sided ancient stone china sugar bowl of good proportion, which was decorated with yellow and yellow green enamel paint. The dime and fifteen cent stores frequently display bowls that are seconds of good quality. Where the budget permits, very lovely bowls may be purchased from jewelry and department stores. At any rate, half of the fun of raising or buying flowers is to mentally see them in a bowl or vase that belongs.