Social Security Program, Western States By Judge Hugo B. Anderson Address given at Relief Society Conference, April, 1936. Social Welfare Department. HE Relief Society is, I suppose, the largest body of volunteer workers, with training *in the welfare field, in this coyntry today. By reason of the fact that you have this experience and training, you understand more readily than the ordinary lay audience the problems connected with welfare work. By reason of the fact that you are volunteer workers, you have an advantage even over the professional paid social workers in interpreting to and influencing the public on problems of welfare. The passage of the Social Security Act has left our welfare laws, our welfare policies, and our welfare practices and administration in a state of flux and change. This means that we have today such an opportunity as comes not more than once in a generation to really do some constructive work in the improvement of our welfare machinery and the social conditions in the community from which we come. I am very glad, therefore, that the program for the Relief Society Conference carries the inscription on its title page: "Relief Society Awake to Its Opportunities and Responsibilities." I wish to use that slogan as a means of limiting, and at the SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM same time unifying, what I may have to say to you this afternoon; what are some of the opportunities which the Social Security program gives to you as workers in your communities; what are some of the responsibilities that it places upon you in relation to the welfare problems in your various communities because of your experience and training and your position? "THE Social Security Program has for its object, as President Roosevelt said when he proposed it, "To provide safeguards against the major misfortunes of life." The figures on the distribution of wealth in the United States indicate clearly the necessity of safeguards against the major misfortunes of life. Before the depression struck us in 1929, 1 % of the people of this country owned 59% of the wealth of the country; 18% of the people owned 90% of the wealth, and 76% of the people left nothing in the way of property when they died. The average wage in this country at that time was approximately $1,200 per year for the working man. It took fully that much to provide a minimum standard of decent and healthful living for a family of five. Now that means that a large proportion of the people in this country are in good times so near the dependency line that any major misfortune in life immediately presses them down below the dependency line and places them in a position where they need assistance. These major hazards or misfortunes in life are well known to all of us—unemployment, sickness— physical and mental, accidents, premature death of the bread winner, old age, and various kinds of physical handicaps. The Social Security Act, in attempting to provide against some of 357 these major hazards, uses all three methods which are known to welfare work. These three methods are: relief, insurance and prevention. For example, in the case of accident, if the bread winner of the household suffers an accident, we may simply put relief into the family, or we may provide a system of accident insurance so that the earner and his family may be protected, or we may spend our welfare funds in a program of prevention. Relief, insurance and prevention, the three ways are all used under the Social Security program. The relief method is used in the grants-in-aid, under the Social Security Act. These grants-in-aid are provided for old age, for dependent children, for the blind, for crippled children and for vocational rehabilitation of the physically injured. The insurance method is used in the provisions for unemployed insurance, which it is designed will be administered by the States. The taxes levied under this portion of the act are to be used by the Federal Government in helping the States carry the costs of administration of their unemployment insurance laws. The insurance method is also used for the old age annuities, which are based on insurance principles, and which are paid for out of the taxes which are levied for that purpose on employers and employees. The preventive method is used in connection with the grants-in-aid for public health, maternal and child health and child welfare. The Social Security Program is too broad in its scope to discuss as a whole in the course of a half hour period. Because of that fact and because the opportunities and responsibilities of the Relief Society lie at present, at least, largely in the field of the grants-in-aid for old age, for dependent children and for the blind, I shall limit my discussion this 358 afternoon to the grants-in-aid for these three specific purposes. "THE principle of grants-in-aid is well established already in this country. Under the theory of the grants-in-aid the administration of the law is left with the local community—the State or County; the Federal Government fixes standards, and any State which complies with these standards may then receive reimbursement up to a certain percentage of the amount of money which the State has spent in that particular activity. The grants-inaid principle has been used in the case of agricultural extension work; aid for highways; the Smith-Hughes Act for vocational education; the Sheppard-Towner Act, with which you Relief Society workers are familiar; and the public employment service. The principle of the grantsin-aid has been tested in the Federal Courts and held constitutional, and there is not, therefore, the same questions regarding it as there is with reference to the insurance features of the Social Security Act. I want for just a moment to discuss with you the situation with reference to these three problems of old age, dependent children and the blind in the Western States before the Social Security Act was passed. In 1930 there was six and a half million people in the country over sixty-five years of age, which was five and four-tenths of the population of the country. But we have gone so far in decreasing the infant mortality rate, and in prolonging life, that it is very evident the proportion of old people in our population is rapidly increasing, and it is estimated that by 1970 there will be twenty million people in the country over sixty-five years of age. Before the depression about one-third of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE these old people were dependent; since the depression approximately one-half of these old people are dependent. There are seven million four hundred thousand children under sixteen years of age in families on the relief rolls of this country at the present time. Seven hundred thousand of these are in families where the family has been deprived of support of the bread winner— through death or absence of the father. Before the Security Act less than one-third of these dependent children were receiving relief under our existing Mothers' Aid Laws. There are over one hundred thousand blind in the United States, 1. E., people having no useful vision. Of the one hundred thousand, approximately twenty-three thousand were receiving blind pensions or allowances prior to the Social Security Act. I AM assuming that those of you who are here today come from Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Wyoming. Practically all of these States before the Security Act had old age pension laws, mothers' aid laws and blind pension laws. New Mexico was the only one of the group without an old age pension law. In this group of States, in round numbers, there are four hundred thousand people over sixty-five years of age. Experience shows that if the old age pension law is properly drawn and properly administered, about 20% of the aged will qualify for assistance; 20% of that number would be about eighty thousand in these Western States. Before the Security Act there were just about half that number who were receiving assistance under the provisions of existing old age pension laws. These pensions, however, SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM were very low: ranging from $5.32 in New Mexico, to $20.25 in Colorado. The average amount paid in these Western States was $12.15 per person. Most of these States had Mothers' Aid Laws. The payments under these laws ranged from $4.00 per child up to around $20.00. There were 26,/00 children aided under the Mothers' Aid laws in these States before the Social Security Act. The average amount granted per child in these States was $9.00 per month. There were 5,456 blind in these ten States. About half of them, or a little over 3,000, were receiving some blind assistance under the laws of these States. In general, then, about half the people in these three classifications who could be reasonably expected to qualify in normal times under the provisions of the Social Security Act, were receiving assistance under the State laws prior to the passage of the Social Security Act. In most of these States, however, the administration was on a County basis. California had a State and local combination basis, and Arizona had a state-wide method of distributing Mothers' Aid. Outside of that the provision was entirely local in all of the States, and was for the most part not mandatory on the Counties. What does the Social Security Act offer to these States? The Social Security Act provides, in the case of old age, that if the State complies with the requirements of the Federal Act, the State will be reimbursed by the Federal Government up to one-half its expense, within a limit of $30.00 per month to one individual for the care of the needy aged over sixty-five years of age who are not inmates of institutions, who are citizens of the United States, and who have resided in the State for five out of the preceding nine years, and 359 in the local community for one year. The Federal Government also reimburses the State for costs of administering the old age assistance to the extent of 5% of the Federal grant in aid. The Federal Government goes even further in encouraging States to extend the application of existing Mothers' Aid laws. It offers reimbursement equal to one-third of the amount expended by the States (under an approved plan) for the care of dependent children. In practically all of our existing mothers' aid laws, however, the aid is limited to a mother who is caring for her children in her own home. Under the provisions of the Social Security Act the child does not need to be living with its mother. The Federal Act allows the State to define a dependent child as, "a child under the age of sixteen, who has been deprived of parental support, or care by reason of the death, continued absence from the home or physical or mental incapacity of a parent and who is living with his father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, brother, sister, stepfather, step-mother, step-brother, step-sister, uncle or aunt, in a place of residence maintained by one or more of such relatives at his or their own home." The provisions of the Act relating to dependent children are, in my judgment, the most farreaching of all the provisions of the Social Security Act, and will have an ultimate greater effect on the welfare set-up than any other provisions of the Act. The Federal grants for aid to the blind are on about the same basis as those for the aged except that there is no age requirement in the case of the blind. O what extent have the Western States qualified for Federal as- 360 sistance under the Social Security Act? I hesitate to even attempt to answer that question, because conditions in every State are changing so rapidly that what is true today may not have been true yesterday, and what was true yesterday may not be true today. I secured a report last night, however, which gave the latest information available from Washington, and that report showed that the following States among those that I have naméd have qualified under the provisions of the Social Security Act: for old age assistance—Idaho, Wyoming, Utah and New Mexico; for aid to the blind— Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico; for aid to dependent children—Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico. I understand in addition that the Legislature of Colorado is now in session for the express purpose of framing such laws as will enable Colorado to comply with the provisions of the Social Security Act, and qualify for its benefits. Oregon and California have qualified for unemployment insurance, but for none of the grants-in-aid features of the Security Act. Montana and Nevada have apparently not qualified for any of the benefits of the Social Security Act. What does the Federal Government require in order that a State may qualify for these grants? Here is where the opportunity ends, and the obligation and responsibility of those who understand welfare problems begin. The requirements of the Federal Government are not complicated. A State must offer a plan for caring for these classes of unemployables that complies with the following requirements: A single State agency to administer or supervise the administration of the plan. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If it is a plan of State supervision and County administration, then the provisions of the plan must be mandatory in every County of the State. There must be financial participation by the State. It is not enough that the Counties put up money, the State itself must contribute to the funds. There must be an opportunity for any person who is refused the benefits of the Act to appeal to the state supervising agency. A State must guarantee satisfactory standards of administration for the Act, and comply with the requirements of the Federal Government with reference to statistical and financial reports covering the administration of the act. ASSUME that you have asked yourselves as Relief Society workers, What can we do? If you believe in this method of taking care of these classes of people in need, you should first of all do your utmost to see that your State qualifies under the terms of the Social Security Act. That will mean, in most cases, that ultimately, if not immediately or before qualifying, your State must have a State Department of Public Welfare or the equivalent. It is our obligation, as people who know something about welfare administration, to exert our influence to the utmost of our ability to see that these State Departments are set up in a suitable manner on a nonpartisan basis, so that they will not become footballs of politics in the future, and to see that the methods of administration prescribed are as fine as we know how to make them with our present knowledge of welfare work. In many cases perhaps it will not be possible to comply with the provisions of the Social Security Act in the State until the Legislature SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM ineets. Our greatest difficulty here in Utah was the fact that our aid laws were not mandatory on the various Counties. We avoided that difficulty and succeeded in qualifying by entering into written agreements with every County of the State under the terms of which the County Commissioners of these Counties agreed to disburse their help to the blind and the aged and dependent children under the rules and regulations prescribed by the State Department and the Federal Government, in return for the help which the State and Federal Governments gave to them. The provisions of law creating our State Department of Public Welfare authorized the County Commissioners to cooperate with the State Department of Public Welfare and the Federal Government and to take such action as was necessary to conform to the requirements of the Social Security Act. There are a number of questions of policy in the setting up of your welfare machinery which you will hear discussed, and on which you should be in a position to exercise some influence in your communities. First of all I want-to urge you, in setting up your machinery for welfare work in your States, not to be content to set it up for those only who fit into the categories of the Social Security Act, the blind, aged and dependent children. While you are making a Department of Public Welfare, make it broad enough so that it can supervise the welfare activities in behalf of those who do not fit into the categories as well as those who do. We find in our State today almost as many unemployables whom we cannot place on the Works Progress Administration program and who do not come under the provisions of the Social Security Act, 361 as there are persons who can qualify for assistance under the provisions of the Social Security Act. Your program should be broad enough so that your State can supervise the whole welfare problem. Another reason is because under your Security program, your Counties will be called upon to participate financially. If we are not careful we will find those who fit into the program supported with State and Federal help will have all the funds, and those who do not will have no care whatever because County funds will be exhausted in the care of the other groups. See that your program is made broad enough to cover all your welfare problems. HERE is a good deal of discussion about the basis of eligibility for these benefits. It is generally agreed that the basis for eligibility in all cases where grants-in-aid apply, as against insurance features, should be "need." I do not believe that our basis of eligibility should be as low as the basis of eligibility under the old poor laws that have come down to us from the time of Queen Elizabeth. Under those laws persons had to be destitute, they had to dispose of everything they had, to be in a position to receive help. I believe that we should accept a standard which makes an applicant eligible for assistance if he does not have the -ability to provide for himself and family the minimum requirements of a decent and healthful living. We must be careful'in setting up standards of eligibility, especially in the field of dependent children, that we do not put a premium on the breaking up of the family. In our State for a long time we have put a premium on the breaking up of the family. Under Mothers' Aid we have been giving an average of about $5.00 per child per month, but 362 if the family breaks up, and the children become dependent or neglected, they are committed to the care of some children's agency, and then the County is required to provide $15.00 a month for the care of each child. Why not prevent the family from being broken up by making the care in the family adequate enough so that there will be no incentive to the breaking up of the family. If we are not alert in this matter our basis of eligibility and standards of assistance under the Security Act are still going to leave a premium on breaking up homes, and we should fight that. In the case of the blind, we should be careful not to grant aid without requiring that they take advantage of opportunities for training. We do not want to make them feel they are helpless, and must be permanently cared for. If there is educational and vocational training available see that they are required to take it in order to be eligible for assistance. WHat of the responsibility of relatives? Are you going to make relatives take care of those in need before you give them assistance from the public treasury? I believe that there is a value sociologically in the laws which require members of a family to take care of their own. It stabilizes and strengthens family life to have such laws. A member of a family should-not be required to help his relatives if by helping them he pushes himself down below the dependency line, or below the line where he can provide for himself and family the minimum requirements for a decent and healthful living, but if a relative can assist a member of his family in need without reducing himself below the line of a decent and healthful living, he should be required to do so. Who would be the judge? Shall we let RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the social worker say, "You have relatives who should take care of you," or, "You cannot get assistance, you will have to starve unless your relatives take care of you." Perhaps that is unwise and impractical but surely we can say legitimately to those people, "If you desire the benefits under the Social Security Act, which are of a higher standard than those of our old poor laws, your relatives must assist. If the relatives being able will not assist, unless we can force them to assist under the law, all we can do is to take care of the needy applicant under the old relief measures provided in our Counties and States. WHAT about the requirement of liens on the homes of recipients of old age assistance? The papers are full of protests against liens being placed on the homes of aged people. If you provide for liens on the homes of those receiving old age assistance, see to it that the lien. Is in the nature of an agreement to reimburse; that it cannot be enforced until after the death of the aged person or the spouse of the aged person. If this is done there can be no possible hardship on any aged person where the State requires a lien, because the aged person himself cannot suffer, and the only effect is to require the children who have failed to take care of their parents, to reimburse the State and County before they profit out of the property which the old people have gathered to support themselves in their old age. There is this additional advantage in such a lien—it enables the State to extend the benefits of the old age allowance to people who have some property, and permits them to live in their homes, rather than requiring them to sell all they have and make themselves destitute ON THE TRAILS OF OLD KAIBAB before the allowance provided by the Social Security Act can be provided to them. INALLY, the welfare system set up in your States should provide for local financial participation in connection with the State and Federal grants. I believe that no matter how fine the rules and regulations emanating from Washington or the State Capitol may be, they will not assure as fine an administration of Welfare laws as can be secured if your local people have to put up part of the money, and so have an interest in seeing that the welfare laws are properly administered. See that your local people bear part of the burden, and, you especially who know some- 363 thing of the value of training in welfare work, see to it that some provision is made for securing and maintaining standards of personnel in your departments, both State and local. That is one of the most difficult of welfare problems. HE Social Security Act is not perfect by any means. We shall without doubt have changes in the law and its administration for many years, but as a whole I believe that it is the greatest single step which this Government has ever taken to unify our welfare service and safeguard people against the major hazards of life. It affords us as welfare workers a great opportunity and an enormous responsibility.