a Do the Compensations of Motherhood Overbalance Its Responsibilities? By Edith L. Anderson FEEL sure that nearly every one believes with almost, if not quite, an absolute conviction that the compensations of motherhood do overbalance the sacrifices. We might go so far as to say that every mother in the world believes that very thing even though some are reluctant in admitting it; the reluctant ones usually being those who have given mother-craft a secondary place in their lives rather than making the rearing of their children their chief objective. The mothers who suffer and sacrifice the most for the sake of their children are the ones who experience most fully the highest compensations for their sacrifices. However, since most of us are mothers of young children with many years of work and responsibility still ahead of us before our task of motherhood is completed (if ever!), there must be moments in all our lives—if not yet, there undoubtedly will be—when conditions are such as to make us wonder if our sacrifices are worthwhile, if we are really succeeding well enough to justify the tremendous physical and mental burden we have placed upon ourselves. But, if during those moments of uncertainty and suffering we can call to mind even one of motherhood's compensations, we shall find the courage to go on in spite of our difficulties, to the completion of our life's work. T is generally recognized that the sacrifices of motherhood are, briefly speaking, physical and social. The physical sacrifices include loss of health and youthful vigor, in many cases an actual breaking down of health and nerves; the sacrificing of physical comforts, in accordance with individual circumstances. The true mother of course denies herself comforts, luxuries and even the necessities of life itself in order that her children shall survive and have their chance. The social sacrifices mean first of all her leisure, the t77e which she devotes to caring for the physical, mental and spiritual needs of her family, which otherwise she would have for herself. The vast amount of work which she does makes it physically impossible for her to have as much social life as the childless woman; she is tied more closely to home; she is not free to come and go as she pleases. In addition to all that she has the great responsibility of her work, carrying with it mental anxiety and sorrow unequalled in any other walk of life. If there is anything greater in the world than mother love it is, perhaps, mother grief. And so when that dark day comes when the task of motherhood seems almost too great, when we are so tired physically, so weary and exasperated mentally, so discouraged spiritually as almost to envy the wellpreserved, seemingly carefree woman we know who has no children but who has, instead, all of her time and means for herself and her social or professional life, who has the exclusive companionship of her husband at all times (such as we enjoyed only before our first baby ar- 376 rived) and who is apparently as much if not more appreciated and admired than we who spend our time and strength in toiling for the human needs of everyday life—when that day comes, what are we to think of that will bring us back to our normal state of mind and being, that of loving, cheerful, self-sacrificing, hardworking mothers? Let us see. We must remember first of all that in many instances the childless woman finds herself, or is afraid she will find herself either pitied or blamed, and her attitude becomes one of defense against that situation whether or not she really deserves our pity or censure. Her activities and her seemingly carefree manner are but a gallant attempt to mask a disappointment and heartache such as we have never known; so that before we envy her we must pause to admire her bravery. We are going to remember that in our homes we have a love and companionship that is warmer, truer and more lasting than is found anywhere else. A companionship that comes nearest to surviving all the tests of time and circumstances, which eliminates all possibility of loneliness and which warms our hearthside for us and for all who cross our threshold. We have a family circle wherein life may be lived at its very fullest and finest. Then we shall remember that in motherhood we have an opportunity for intellectual development and selfimprovement which can be gained in no other one field. In the physical and mental training of our children we read and study so many branches of learning that we give ourselves a liberal education and develop a sense of thought and reasoning beyond what we could achieve with a less impelling incentive. Let us remember also that as mothers we develop in ourselves, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE consciously and unconsciously, the highest quality of character, those attributes which otherwise would remain undeveloped or at least only partially developed: I mean those superlative qualities known as patience, unselfishness and tolerance. We at various times have condemned ourselves for our lack of patience, expressing ourselves as striving for more and more of it and yet one would have to travel far and search long and diligently before finding greater patience than is practiced by most every mother. The unselfishness of motherhood is shown in every act of a mother's life, and that means in all that she does and is. Where else will you find utter selflessness to such a degree? And that greatest of all virtues, tolerance, for a larger measure of which all mankind today is struggling by every possible means, is more clearly manifest among mothers than in any or all other groups of individuals whether they be professional, political, religious or social. 'That very tolerance leads to a kinship and companionship, a sympathetic understanding between mothers the extent of which cannot be measured. So: having remembered that as \? Mothers we have so much of love and companionship, self-development, and quality of character as to make us richer than we can hope to realize, if we still feel that our rewards are too few for our sacrifices, let us then remember that we have power, power second only to that of the Creator Himself over the helpless little souls entrusted to our keeping. Our children are as plastic clay in our hands to make or mar. The task of molding character may well employ to the utmost the best abilities of any woman. Do we wish to use our power and COMPENSATIONS OF MOTHERHOOD influence in social service? If so, nothing that we can do will have a more potent, far-reaching effect for the good of society than the making of our children into good citizens. Though it may sound extreme, it is reasonable to believe that if each mother did her full duty in the home, if each mother mastered for herself the first great problem assigned to women—that of molding and training character, there would not be so great a need for a mighty army of welfare workers to relieve the sufferings of humanity. Let us remember, too, that this vast work and responsibility which becomes ours in rearing our children, has a strong tendency to keep us in the straight and narrow way ourselves. For realizing as we do the importance of setting the proper example before our children and desiring by that example to instill the proper teachings into their lives, we are more careful of our own conduct, lest we defeat our own purposes and so that we may not lose the respect and affection of our children. The commandment "Honor thy father and thy mother," is a mighty one. Children who, by the time they are grown, have failed to practice it, will then have brought disgrace to themselves and everlasting sorrow to their parents. That blessed commandment can work the other way, too. The child who is forced to grow up with a sense of inferiority and humiliation under the disgrace of the wrongdoings of his parents, is injured beyond all hope or possibility of recovery. His mind and his soul are irreparably damaged. So, I say, let us honor our children that they may do honor to us. 377 HE little boy who is sent by his mother out into the night alone to return the marble which he had found and kept while knowing the owner, never forgets the incident and relates it when he is a gray-haired man. He remembers it not so much because of his fear of the darkness, for that will have been forgotten, but he remembers the sincerity of sorrow and alarm in his young mother's eyes, the not-to-be-imitated conviction in her voice as she told him there were few persons so despised as thieves, few crimes worse than stealing. Ih was from the whole of his mother's personality that he received that overwhelming impression of dishonesty. She believed with all her heart that dishonesty is a terrible sin— only by such sincerity can moral precepts be taught. Finally, in completing our search for the compensations of our motherhood, if our task is well done, we have a sense of completeness, the satisfaction of having fulfilled our destiny in its fullness; and with the passing of time, in the accomplishments and achievements of our children we reap glory and distinction beyond compare. For just as Lincoln said "All that I am or hope to be I owe to my mother," so the poet has said to the mother's son: "Like mother, like son," so true, The world will judge largely of "Mother" by you— Be sure it will say when its verdict we've won "She reaped as she sowed, Lo, this is her son."