A Study of Civic Sociology as a Foundation for Intelligent Living INTRODUCTION ANY people profess an inM terest in the social forces which form the warp and woof of daily life, but it is evident that most people live on the plane of least resistance with no consciousness of the influences which shape their existence. Among those who have some knowledge of social trends there are but few who pattern their behavior according to the ideals which are taught as part of social welfare. But knowledge is ineffectual without the deeds to back it up. The goal of social study is to stimulate actual participation in social movements. By evaluating individual responsibilities it is hoped that group welfare may be furthered. In pointing out the relationship between its members and the group it is to be hoped that the social service lessons will teach the interdependence between individuals and society. The welfare of each depends upon the other. The mistakes of each react upon the other. The complexity of the problem is bewildering to the layman. And yet, if he is to understand the forces which govern the methods of his living, he is called upon to modify the habits and beliefs which have become fixed as the result of his life's experience. He must adopt new points of view to meet the everchanging conditions of society. This is difficult to do, and he is dependent upon the quality of leadership with which he comes in contact. Parents, teachers, educators, and church workers are among the leaders and molders of character in every community. If their leadership is lacking in understanding, society suffers. These social service lessons are designed to help Relief Society workers, among whom are numbered leaders of society, to understand the social forces which are brought to bear upon daily living, to modify their existing opinions to meet the trends of the day, and to develop the ability to adjust to new conditions. They should encourage members to enlarge their present spheres of social service. The lessons in the 1936-37 course of study, drawn from the great social issues which are attempting to better our living conditions, our educational system, our methods of government, and our economic principles, have a practical application for each reader. The understanding of that application and the reader's response to its challenge is the test of success. Attention is again directed to the general purposes of the entire course as published in the May, 1935, issue of this magazine. Each class leader should bear in mind these objectives. For reemphasis they are again stated: 1. To develop spirituality through the promotion of human welfare. 2. To realize that the study of sociology contributes to the understanding of the great social problem of living well together. 3. To acquire a knowledge of human relations leading up to our present form of social organization. 4. To teach the individual her relations and duties toward social institutions. 5. To develop the habit of investigation and of active participation in the solution of individual and social welfare problems. 6. To realize that social evils do not happen without just cause. 7. To develop an intelligent attitude toward participation in all civic affairs. L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS! You cannot build a great BRIDGE without a blue print. You cannot construct a RAILROAD without a survey. Neither can you mold a SUCCESSFUL CAREER without a plan. Ask for our booklet "Planning Your Future" L. D. 8. Business College 70 North Main Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah READY TO WALK ON IN 6 TO 8 HOURS LOWE BROTHERS NEPTUNITE Quick-Drying FLOOR ENAMEL dries quickly and leaves a hard surface not easily marred or harmed by hot or cold water. Salt Lake Glass & Paint Co, 35 East First South Street Salt Lake City Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices  , Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine