6 Address By President Heber J. Grant (Delivered at the Relief Society Conference, Friday, April 3, 1936) AM sure that none of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are more grateful and thankful for a Prophet of God, than are the members of the Relief Society. The fact that Joseph Smith, the instrument in the hands of the living God in establishing again upon the earth the Gospel of Jesus Christ, saw fit to organize the Relief Society, and to tell of the wonderful things which they were to accomplish, fills our hearts with gratitude upon this, and all other occasions. I am grateful indeed that it fell to my lot to be perhaps as intimate with Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and Aunt Emmeline B. Wells, from the time that I was a little child until they passed away, as any of the brethren. My mother, being president of the 13th Ward Relief Society for thirty long years, with Bathsheba Smith as one of her Counselors, and with Aunt Emmeline B. Wells as Secretary, I cannot remember when I did not know these sisters and was intimate with them. I have perhaps announced before, but I will announce again, that in a meeting of some of. The Presidents of Ward Relief Societies held in the Salt Lake Stake, which then embraced the entire County of Salt Lake, I was a child, playing on the floor. Eliza R. Snow had the gift of tongues, and Sister Zina D. Young gave the interpretation, and predicted that I should live to be one of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ in this last dispensation. Naturally, I have been very grateful for that splendid blessing given to me. At that time I did not understand it, I did not comprehend it—did not know anything about it. Being an only child, my mother having no one to leave me with, and living in poverty, I was a regular attender at Relief Society meetings, and have often remarked that I was almost entitled to be counted as a charter member of the 13th Ward society. I AM delighted today with all that I have heard. I have never attended one of your General Conference meetings but what I have partaken of the very fine and splendid spirit, and it is the spirit that gives life. Preaching and talking means but very little unless our lives are lived in perfect harmony with our teachings. It is under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord when speaking that our words carry con- 340 viction to the hearts of men. I have listened to a great many men pray and preach, when their remarks made no impression upon me, knowing their lives, and of their neglect or failure to do their duty in the Church. I was with a man at one time who shook hands with a great speaker, and said, "I did not hear a word you said today," (he was not a member of the Church, by the way), "your acts thunder so loud I could not hear anything you said." It is by our acts, it is by the Spirit of the Living God that abides with us, that we are able to accomplish in the battle of life those things that are for our advancement and the advancement of those with whom we come in contact. HE spirit of the Relief Society is one of charity, long suffering, forgiveness, and that is the finest spirit in the world. I call to mind a certain man guilty of immorality. He claimed to have repented, and asked to be forgiven. The Apostles had tried this man, and President John Taylor wrote a letter in which he stated that he could be baptized provided each and every member of the Council of the Twelve gave their consent, as they had tried the case, and he could not be baptized if there was one solitary man of the Twelve who would not give his consent. He said, "I want every man to vote in accordance with the conviction of his heart, not: simply to make it unanimous, unless in his heart of hearts he is in favor of the baptism." The vote was taken, and was, as I remember, six to six. Time rolled on, and a vote was taken again, and it was eight to four. Some months rolled on and it was taken again, and it was ten to two, and finally I happened to drop into the President's office (I was one of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE two) and he said to me, "Brother so and so was in yesterday and has given his consent for this man to be baptized, how do you feel about it? I said, "I am perfectly willing to vote for him to be baptized if you want me to, but you know what you put in your letter, that a man should vote according to the convictions of his heart, and my convictions are that he is not fit to be baptized. I maintain that a man who could be guilty of the crime he was, and lie about it, and claim that the woman had slandered him, and finally learning he was guilty of immorality twice, such a man, in my judgment, ought to stay out of the Church." "Well," he said, "all right." I said, "You just tell me to vote yes, and I'll vote." "Oh no, I'll never tell you, my boy," (he often referred to me as "My Boy"), "stay with your conviction, but how will you feel if you should get to heaven and this man appears and says, 'I repented in sack cloth and ashes for the wrong that I had done, but this man (pointing to you) would not allow me to be baptized." I said, "I shall just feel fine, and I will look the Lord square in the eye, and I will tell Him any man who would accuse a woman of blackmail, and being a liar, and was not only guilty once but twice of losing his virtue, so to speak (of course he did not have his virtue the second time) I do not think he is fit to be in the Church." "All right, my boy, stay with your conviction, but suppose he should die before baptism."' I said, 'Let him die." On the way from the President's office I looked at my watch, and found that if I walked to my office, which was three blocks away, and back again, I would only have from three to five minutes to be in the office, so I decided to go home and read a little before lunch. At the ADDRESS time I was reading the Doctrine and Covenants prayerfully, humbly, systematically. There was a book mark in it, but when I picked it up it did not open at the mark, thank the Lord. I opened it at the following passage: "I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men. "And ye ought to say in your hearts—let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds."—Doctrine and Covenants 64:10-11. I just shut up the book and put my hat on and walked right back to President Taylor's office. When I shut the book up I said, "If the devil asks for baptism and says he has repented I will baptize him." When I got to the President's office and told him I had come to give my consent that this man be baptized, he sat in his chair and indulged in one of his regular habits, to laugh and shake his body. "Well, my boy, my boy, my boy, how did it happen? It is so sudden." I told him how it happened and he said, '""When you left here a few minutes ago did you not feel you could enjoy striking this man between the eyes, especially when you thought what if he had destroyed the virtue of your wife, or of your daughter?" "That is just the way I felt." President Taylor said, '"How do you feel now?" I answered, "I hope the poor old sinner can be forgiven." He said, "Heber, I put that clause in that letter for you and for my son John. Old men for charity, for love, for forgiveness; young men for justice. You have learned your lesson young in life. If I had told you to vote to have this man baptized it might have been fifty years before you learned this fine lesson. You have learned today that charity and forgiveness are -marvelous things for us to cul- 341 tivate. It brings happiness and joy and peace to the human heart when you forgive people who are really and truly repentant of their sins." INCE that time there has been twenty-six different changes in the Presidency and Apostles of the Church, and so from that time until now I can say that I have been grateful indeed for having learned that lesson in my youth, and there is nothing in the world that is more splendid than to have in our hearts a desire to forgive the sinner if he only repents, but I want to say do not forgive the sinner if he does not repent. "By this ye shall know that a man has repented, that he confesses his sin and forsakes it, and is guilty no more." It is up to the Lord, however, and unless they confess their sin we are not obligated to forgive, but when they really and truly repent it is one of the obligations that rest upon us to forgive those who have sinned. DO not want the people outside who wish to come in to the organ recital to have any trouble getting in, and as it is going to take about six minutes for the Singing Mothers to sing, and about a couple of minutes, I suppose, for the benediction, I think that we should not run overtime, although I know we can get out of this building very quickly. It is I think the finest and most splendid building in all the world of its size for exits. You can empty this building in two or three minutes when it is crowded to overflowing, and I never think of this building without being grateful for the inspiration of Brother Brigham Young in planning and designing it. I SINCERELY pray for the blessings of the Lord to be and abide with the officers of this association. 342 I repeat again that I have thoroughly enjoyed everything that I have heard here, and I echo the sentiments of Brother Clark in regard to my admiration for the Singing Mothers. I naturally have a wonderful admiration for a mother, seeing that my mother was both mother and father to me, as my father died when I was nine days old, and her unquestioned devotion to the Gospel, her love of it, and her magnificent exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ample have been the guiding stars of my life. MA4Y God bless each and all of the mothers of the Church, and particularly those who are laboring in the Relief Society, and all the officers of the various associations throughout the Church, at home and abroad, in the missions all over the world, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer and Savior. Amen.