The Way By Elizabeth H. Welker HE parents of a child will make any sacrifice to give that child the best life has to offer. But, what is the best? Wealth? A college education? Undoubtedly through childhood and the early teen age school is the best place for children. But what is best for them during the upper 'teens—when life looms so big ahead of them—when they cannot tell which way to go or which way they want to go? They are swayed first this way, then that. Which is the way? Parents of Latter-day Saint children, will you listen to those who have found the way? Let them tell you as they told us recently, in a Testimony Meeting in Berlin. These are. Young people speaking, they range in age from nineteen up through the early twenties, but they have found the way. They are Missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, laboring in the German-Austrian Mission. Here are testimonies of some of them sent to us by their Mission Mother: Sister Welker writes: "So many times my heart has thrilled at the testimonies of our Elders. There has always been one regret, that the world could not hear them, especially the mothers. "There is such a need for Elders in all the Missions, and the young people need the 'Mission.' I have tried to catch the spirit of their message. While it comes from Germany, it is the spirit of all the Missions." Here are the testmonies of some of them: "T did not care about coming on a Mission. I thought a Missionary had to sacrifice a great deal, but I have learned that the more you sacrifice the more you gain." "T have learned more about real life values in these two years of Missionary life than I learned in four years of college. The President of this Church gave me the greatest gift theregis in this world when he called me on this Mission. I had my 'Sheepskin" from college but I was not happy. I was selfish, I had no joy in what I did. Today I have learned to make sacrifices and it has brought me real happiness." "Money does not make people happy. I learned that much at home. You have to be satisfied within to be happy. I have learned that, in the mission field, I have learned to be happy." "Humility is the greatest thing a Missionary can have and my expense account is the test of my humility. When my expense account runs high I find I am not nearly so humble as when it runs low. Spending a lot of money does not bring a Missionary happiness, it is when he spends the least, when he is humble, that he is the happiest. Christ promised if we would live His Plan, we would know for ourselves. I have learned to know." "T have never had so much satisfaction in my life as I have had since coming on this mission, after two years of college. I know though, 'Tt does not make so much difference whether I came from a monkey or not, it is whether I go from here as a monkey or a man, that counts.' I hope that I can always feel as I feel now.' "If you want to lose your faith, just try being inactive. I had had three years of college and when my Missionary call came I turned it down. I got away from the Church and my grades began going down. It was not so easy to get back. I cannot tell you how happy I am now to be back at work in the Church. I am happier today than I have ever been, for I see that life has greater possibilities than I had ever dreamed before." "This is the most practical and happy life that I have ever known. I have been to college, but I think I have learned more on this Mission than I would have learned in five years of college, if I had really studied." THE "T have learned that our message needs no fine trappings, just the garb of Truth, for it is the Truth." "T have learned not to look for great miracles but to accept the small blessings that come my way, they are miracles and they have filled my heart with joy. "T wanted to be intellectually honest with myself and I said I did not know this Gospel was true, but soon learned that I wasn't deceiving anyone but myself. I think I have always known that it is true." "In this world there are no absolutes. I thought I did not have a testimony. I wanted an absolute. I know today that this Gospel is true. I have learned that you have to live for a testimony before you get it." "Before my Mission my religion consisted of trying to see the other fellow's point of view and trying to give him a square deal, but I have learned that there is much more to true religion than that." "T have learned that it does not matter what I do against Truth. Truth comes from God and will prevail. I know now that this Gospel is true and that it will prevail." "IT wanted to make others as happy as the Missionaries had made my own dear Mother, that is why I came on a WAY 393 Mission. I know that my Redeemer lives, my heart is full of joy." " 'God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform.' My Father died here in the Mission Field. I couldn't help but wonder why? Though it was a very sad thing, I know now that it was all right. When Brother Gurr died a few weeks ago, I couldn't help but wonder again, why? But the change that has come over our Branch since his death is astounding. Perhaps Brother Gurr did his work in that way." "One man has said, 'The strongest part of the Mormon system is its Missionary work,' but I have learned that it is the "Spirit" that makes the successful Missionary. A Missionary has to be humble." These young people have found the way, true they may lose it again, but surely the chances are not so great as if they had not found it at all. And yet they are not in the Mission Field to save themselves, alone, their first work is to bring the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to others. Truly, "He that doeth it unto the least of these my brethren hath done it unto me."