A Tribute (Radio Address over KSL, March 15, 1936) By President Louise Y. Robison RING came early on the beautiful banks of the Mississippi ninety-four years ago! New life was apparent in bush and tree! The return of the birds was welcome for the winter had been most trying in the village of Nauvoo! In their desire to gather at the headquarters of the Latter-day Saints Church, fine men and women, who had joined the Church in distant parts, came to Nauvoo by the hundreds. Housing facilities in this new frontier town were inadequate, - and, added to this discomfort, many people were stricken with malaria. Residents opened their homes and did all in their power to care for these needy people, but still many suffered. Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith, filled her home with the sick whom she nursed. REALIZING the need for organized relief, eighteen earnest women met on March 17, 1842, with a desire to relieve the distressing situation. This group of women, mostly mothers, began the meeting with song, and being prayerful women, a prayer was offered for divine guidance. The organization, then known as the Female Relief Society, was created. Tonight, in this historic Tabernacle, we commemorate this event in song and thanksgiving. There is real power in song and prayer and service! Inspiration for great undertakings is gained through song, and appreciation for blessings received is expressed by this medium. Hence our Relief Society slogan: "Every Mother a Singing Mother." A home, a church or a community is most fortunate where women sing while they serve. FMMA SMITH. Was our first President. She was the animating spirit in the great labor of love which found expression in using all the resources at her command. The aims and objects of the Society. 348 were: "to manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality: to care for the poor, the sick and the unfortunate: to minister where death reigns: to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life: to raise human life to its highest level: to elevate and enlarge the scope of woman's activities and conditions: to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement: to develop faith: to study and teach the gospel." RuUzA R. SNOW succeeded Emma Smith and tried to perpetuate these ideals, as have each Presidency since its organization. The Church had moved to Utah where many new Wards were created, and Sister Snow traveled extensively to organize Relief Societies and to direct their activities. She was a poet, and not only encouraged singing, but wrote many beautiful poems now used as hymns in our Church. INA D. H. YOUNG, the third President, recognized the need for health education and nursing among the pioneer people. Not only did she instruct others in the laws of health, but she did much actual nursing herself. President Bathsheba W. Smith was deeply interested in Temple ordinances. She was a Priestess of the Temple, as was Anna of New Testament history. Under Sister Smith women were taught the sacredness of Temple work and the rich opportunity offered us to serve people who have died without a knowledge of the Gospel. PRESIDENT EMMELINE Bb. WELLS may be likened to Joseph of whom we read in Bible history. Even before she became President of the Relief Society, President Brigham Young gave her the responRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sibility of having the women of the Church store wheat that the people would not suffer hunger as they had done in former years. Relief Society today is reaping the benefit of this wise project. UR sixth President, Clarissa Smith Williams, was calm, dignified. Under her able leadership the educational program of Relief Society was improved and the activities widened to meet the needs of the present day. Memorials honoring past Presidents were established through which many women have been enabled to take professional work in literature, nursing and social service. HE type of service may not be the same today as in the beginning, for we have homes and schools and churches, but there are aching hearts to be comforted; there are the discouraged and the sorrowing who need us to carry the too heavy load, and help them plant their feet again on the firm foundation of faith and 'hope and high standards. Let us help them to see the beauty in the lines written by Nelly Anderson Haley, when she prayed in her garden: "Teach me in dewy silence to know On the pruned bush the loveliest roses grow." There are young girls whose homes during the formative years of their lives have been deprived of the richness of cultural opportunities. | These need our special care, for they are to be the Singing Mothers of the future. On our ninety-fourth birthday we stand with bowed heads in appreciation of the work accomplished by the noble women who have preceded us. We pledge to them our earnest effort to carry the banner high, which they have entrusted to us.