A Challenge to Parents on Summer Nutrition Standards Anna Page, Nutrition Specialist HILDREN need more care, C attention, and regularity for the performing of correct health habits in the summer than they do during the winter months when school keeps them within a schedule. More attention is needed for a summer health regime as there is a higher percentage of underweight and undernourished children in the fall than at the close of school in the spring. What are the reasons? Are parents willing to admit they cannot take care of their own child's health better than the public schools? Have they failed to realize that the purpose of the summer vacation is to give the child rest from school work and a chance to build up his health and resistance? Are parents aware that this deplorable situation exists? Probably the greatest reason for this underweight condition at the end of the summer is irregularity in performing health habits. Why should children as soon as school closes be allowed to go to bed when they please, eat their meals when they want to, and especially eat all the fruit, candy, and other sweets they can get in between meals? EGULAR habits of eating and sleeping are determining factors in building optimum health. Very often as soon as'the stimulus of getting the child to school on time, and the necessity of having his noon meal ready for him on time is removed, the irregular habit is formed to eat when there is the proper desire for food, or when the time is convenient for the parents. Three well planned regular meals, served at the same time each day helps in doing away with the evil of eating in between meals. It is the responsibility of the parent to not only see to it that the child has a regular rest period, but also to prepare and serve regular meals during the summer as well as during the winter. Extremely irregular meals have a great effect on the child's nutrition. The body acts best when it has definitely established hours for eating, sleeping, and evacuations. If eating habits are regular, then the chances are greater that sleepnig, exercise, and play will follow with regular habits and contribute to the optimum health of the child. Consider the effect that irregular meals have on digestion and health. When two meals are close together, others far apart, and when the hours vary hap-hazardly from day to day, no definite habits of eating and living can be built up. The child will be over hungry for one meal and have little appetite for the next. Better digestion of foods take place when we have meals regularly. The stomach is better prepared to receive food when it is not taken too frequently or irregularly. The digestive juices secrete properly and better digestion results from the right selection of food and the correct intervals between the taking of food. Parents will find that children eat in between meals more in the summer than during the school months. This is particularly true of undernourished, irritable children who do not seem happy unless they are con- 382 tinually eating fruit, candy, or bread and butter and jelly at all hours. While the practice of having a light mid-morning or mid-afternoon lunch is accepted by some authorities, there are no positive statements in nutrition which say that one should have only three meals a day. In England they have four meals a day, in Germany five or six, yet their health standards are doubtless as high as our own. It is this indiscriminate eating in between regular meals that causes digestive disturbances. Never having the child give his stomach rest before taking in more indigestible food causes many rear end collisions resulting in the intestinal tract as well as a great deal of trouble resulting in indigestion. A child during the growing period usually has a good appetite resulting in good digestion. The child's digestive system usually functions better than an adult's digestive system does, providing the child does not abuse his digestive system by eating the wrong kind of foods and continually eating in between meals. Much of our indigestion that occurs later in life is caused by wrong food habits during childhood. It is unquestionably the parents' responsibility to protect the digestive system of the child and thus insure better digestion for the adult. Perhaps the most common effect of "piecing" between meals is to cut down on the total amount of food eaten. A striking example of this is shown in the case of a six year old girl whose total amount of food was kept for twenty-four hours. This child put something into her stomach eight times between breakfast and dinner and yet her total amount of food eaten was less than half of her energy requirement. Eating of candy or other sweets in between meals has the most seriRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ous effect by lessening or destroying the appetite for milk, vegetables, and other important foods and to thus crowd them partially or entirely out of the diet. As some children have more leisure time during the summer months, there is more of a tendency for them to want to have money to spend at the corner drug store. When the idea that nickels and dimes are not to be spent for candy and other sweets is overcome, the effect in better appetite and health will be rather convincing. Appetite dulled by sweets, as a rule, deadens a normal desire for mild, bland foods as milk, cereals, and vegetables, and highly flavored meats or more sweets are demanded for an appetite appeal. Many parents have the idea that if children would only eat fruit in between meals that very little harm will result, yet when children are allowed to eat all the fruit they want this will take away their appetite for other essential foods. Where children eat fruit at all hours and without super: vision, some of this fruit will probably be green. Green fruit contains irritating acids that are difficult to digest. As fruit ripens more of the starch is changed to a more digestible form of sugar. Unripe fruit may cause digestive disturbances, while fully ripened fruit may not have these detrimental effects. If good nutrition standards''are to be maintained, children during the summer need to be watched more carefully and warned about eating a great abundance of ripe or green fruit. Fruit served as a part of the regular meals is the correct standard. HILDREN are very often underweight at the beginning of the school year because they habitually eat an insufficient amount of building and energy food. During the summer frequently, too, a large pro- A CHALLENGE portion of fruits and vegetables: is used in the family diet which does not meet the caloric needs of children. For an adult this is usually a good rule to follow, but children need additional energy giving foods. Owing to the extra activity, the child's energy requirement is. Higher during the summer than during the winter. This is especially true if the child does any type of physical work or exercise. The average child who plays hard all day uses a great deal of energy. Many children run and play from sunrise until sunset without stopping except for meals. Thus the energy requirement is increased over the winter months when they have to spend a certain amount of time quietly in school. Obviously, there are only two things to do, first, increase the total amount of food or, second, do not allow the child to over work or over play. Some of the best ways to prevent this over stimulation is to have the child take an afternoon rest or nap or to devote some time each day to reading or quiet games. HE child needs as much or more sleep during the summer than in the winter. Food, sleep, drink, and exercise constitute the most important needs of the growing child. According to physiologists the demand for sleep is even more insistent than that for food, since lack of sleep will produce death more quickly than will starvation. Sleep like food is needed in far greater amounts by the young than by the adult. As children very often go to bed later at night and get up earlier in the morning their time of sleeping is cut too short for optimum health. The rapid spread of the radio in the last few years has become a serious cause of shortage of sleep both 383 in the city and in'the country. Night after night many children sit up until eleven or twelve o'clock in order to get the programs that are only given at those times. Parents should decide which is the most important for growing children, radio programs or sufficient sleep for good health standards. A continual shortage of sleep, either in going to bed too late or getting up too early will affect the health of the child. During sleep the body processes slow down and the need for energy is the least the body can ever require, awake and active the needs are greatly increased. Thus every hour awake increases the fuel need of the body. Then if more food is not taken, the body tissues are burned and loss of weight necessarily follows. But in addition, loss of sleep causes a hyper-irritable nervous system. This nervous condition further increases the food needs, while at the same time it usually diminishes the desires for food. So lack of sleep tends to produce a nervous, irritable, undernourished child. ARENTS should no longer be satisfied in having their children somewhere near the normal weight for height and age. But the aim now is to have each child reach optimum health. However, normal weight is very important. There is no question that a child that is greatly underweight is seriously handicapped both physically and mentally. The aim of every parent during the summer vacation should be to help build up the child's health and thus increase his resistance in order that the child may enjoy his school work without fatigue. A number of recent experiments and investigations show that if the right foods were eaten, if sun baths 384 were taken, and sufficient amount of sleep and fresh air became habitual, resistance to disease can be built up. Children of school age should be encouraged to spend time out in the sunshine and fresh air. Parents should remember that the valuable rays of sun are only beneficial when they shine directly on the skin; that the sun rays are most intense during the middle of the day; that during July and August the sun may be so intense that it may be harmful. It is very important therefore that the child becomes accustomed to the sun very slowly. A gradual tanning of the skin is the thing desired. From some observations made in Switzerland, they found the ultra-violet intensity in summer to be twenty times as great as it is in the winter. This, however, will depend to a great extent upon altitude and humidity. Most children if allowed to play outside will get a sufficient amount of the sun rays, and yet will seek the shade in the hotter part of the day, thus avoiding detrimental effects. Older children need sun baths and sun rays for building up resistance rather than for the prevention of rickets. There is a possibility that right food and health habits and sufficient amount of sun will build up the child's resistance so that during the winter months many colds and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE children's diseases can be prevented. The foods best for building up resistance to disease are green leafy vegetables and milk. Children need two vegetables besides potatoes every day. At least one of these should be a green leafy vegetable. Often the child grows rapidly during the summer, so it is very important that he has each day a full quart of milk. In general, the foods which need to be increased in the diet are milk, vegetables, fruit, and whole grain cereals. The foods that need to be limited for the child are meats, excessive amounts of sugar, rich pastries, and an over abundance of fruits. A CHALLENGE is made to parents, first, to maintain the responsibility of helping the child practice regularly the health habits he has learned at school, second, to provide the child with the following essentials: 1. At least three well planned meals served at regular times. 2. Encourage the child not to eat between meals. 3. Required: amount of sleep with regular hours for sleeping. 4. Allow the child to spend a great deal of time in the fresh air and sunshine.. 5. No over stimulation, either in excessive work or play.