His Mother By Irene McCullough ARY pulled her long robe closer about her. The unkind wind 'seemed determined to bury his teeth in her very bones. "T must hurry," she half sobbed, "He will think even I have deserted him." The tired feet moved faster for a few paces but soon lagged again. The hill seemed so steep and the troublesome wind did all he could to slow her down. 'The last three years of sorrow and turmoil had told heavily upon Mary. Condemned to die, He who had never given her a cross word, who was love itself, who had shielded her from all possible hardships, was now facing death. What would she do without Him? Who would care for her now? He had told her to be brave and brave she must be for His sake. How well she now remembered the words of the angel who had come to her before He was born. "Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found favor with God." "And behold thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest." Yes, and He was the son of the most High God and her Son also. A shaky but determined hand threw back the long white veil from her heavenly face. "Brothers, sisters, and friends may desert Him, but not I. Ashamed they say, afraid to own Him as their own. How oft I pondered as I rocked Him fast to sleep of the wondrous things that happened at His birth. The Wise Men, the Shepherds, and most of all, the good man Simeon of Jerusalem who had been promised he should not taste death until he had seen the Son of God. How when he took my darling babe into his arms the tears ran down his old and wrinkled face and he exclaimed, 'Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word.'" They were all gone now, but she was sure they would not have deserted Him. Again the weary feet quickened their pace but only for a moment or two. The rocky path made it so difficult to travel, and the gradual ascent made her breath come fast and hard. "God give me strength to hurry on," she prayed, "I must not be too late, He must know that I am not ashamed of Him. He is innocent, He is truth itself, God grant unto me this last request, I cannot fail Him now." The eyes in tearful agonizing appeal, were turned heavenward. "J must arrive before it is too late." It seemed as if the very wind had heard her prayer, for he had either quieted down or hurried off to other realms. The once tired and aching feet were now as light as air, her breathing was as calm as a summer's morn. The sloping hill seemed barely raised at all and rough places were made smooth and fair for her. Her face lighted up, she would arrive on time. It seemed as if the earth beneath her sped, as on and on she climbed to Him she loved. "How well I remember the wedding feast at Cana, when the wine ran low, I looked to Him and asked what should be done. He smiled and gave my hand a loving squeeze and 386 all my fears were calmed. The vessels by His side, at His command were quickly filled with water. Then the liquid was poured into the empty cups, and this new wine they all remarked was far more delicious than the first. A miracle, they said, but where are they now who once called themselves friends. They had deserted Him. They were ashamed. The head was lifted higher. She was proud to be His mother and the whole world should know, that she who held Him first in loving arms, was with Him until His last day on earth. She could now see the motley crowd and hear their cries. "Crucify Him, crucify Him, and on our heads let rest the blame." For a moment the devilish yells seemed to stop the blood from coursing through her veins, then a phrase she heard Him oft repeat echoed in her tired brain. "Yet, a little while am I with you and then I go unto Him that sent me. Ye shall seek me and shall not find me and where I am, thither ye cannot come.". His mission was nearing its end, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and He was going to that Father who loved Him so. The babbling mob could never abuse Him again. He was going home, to His eternal home. She knew all this, but oh twas hard to face the end, and that alone. She was nearing the summit of the hill, would she be on time? He must not die before He saw her face. The ruffians sank back as the small slim form with hallowed face held high, pushed to the cross. They dared not bar her progress. They were afraid. That face was more of heaven than of earth. She fell upon her knees before the cross. Her silent sobs shook the slender frame, when suddenly the voice she loved so well exclaimed, "Woman, behold thy son." Strong arms lifted her from off the ground. And Jesus continuing, said, "Behold thy Mother." "John the beloved." He was there. They alone knew the great meaning of His death. "T am the Resurrection and the life! He that believeth in me, though he die, yet shall he live."