(To be continued) Woman's Responsibility as a Buyer of Textiles and Clothing By Vilate Elliott, Professor of Textiles and Clothing, B. Y. U. "The economy of right uses depends largely upon the homemaker." "To woman it is given to add many-fold to the enjoyment which the wealth products of industry are able to secure." HE conditions of the American home have changed radically in the last fifty years. The woman of today can no longer do the things her mother did; so much of the housework done by her mother has been taken out of the home; yet the responsibility has not been lessened. As the work in the home decreased, the problem of buy- 368 ing increased. Most of the things formerly manufactured in the home or, in many instances, grown in the home garden, are now purchased. Our mothers had their milk and egg money, which supplied many of the everyday wants. These reasons, connected with the decrease in the purchasing power of money, have greatly augmented her expenditures, until the demands are more numerous and the responsibility greater than' ever before, so that the success or failure of this, the twentieth century woman, depends upon her ability to adapt herself to the present conditions. A SCHEDULE for gaining the best results in spending one's time, money and effort should be deliberately formed and then adhered to as closely as possible. But even then failure and discouragement come. No one but a woman knows the motives, the plans, the hopes which actuate her in spending _ all she has to spend; but when she has given freely of her time and effort and the results are unsatisfactory, she feels she has failed indeed. However, with her experience, coupled with the cooperation of others and united with the many public. Demonstrations and the opportunities afforded in vocational training, with a determination to meet her difficulties squarely, she will renew her efforts; she will make herself competent as a spender. Then and then only will she begin to have joy and satisfaction in handling the money with which she has been provided. N some families, the mother is not the buyer; the father earns the money and then retains the right to spend it; he decides on the vital needs of the home and family. Ifa RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mother spends any of the family income, she does it only under his direction or he goes with her and is the deciding factor as to the kind and quality of the article she buys. If she is given any money at all, she is expected to give a strict accounting of it. Frequently, with her lack of experience and business knowledge, she is unable to do this. A woman once said to me, "I sometimes wish I were back behind my stenographer's desk. All our family troubles are over money. My husband thinks I am not capable of spending the portion of his salary allowed for the house. When I was a stenographer I at least had the privilege of spending my own money. I earn the money we use as much as he does." And she was right. The income brought into the home is earned as much by the mother as by the father; it is just a division of the labor. She does not go to an office every morning, but she has all the care and responsibility of the home and children; in many cases this is far the heavier burden. When a man cannot see that his wife has equal rights with him in spending the income, particularly that portion that is spent for the home, there is a lack of right understanding and of kind and sympathetic cooperation. The mother knows the needs of the house better. She can arrange her time for shopping better, and she is usually a more capable judge of clothing. There are exceptions, but even if a woman is a poor buyer and has very little business ability, with the aid of a kindly husband to help her keep accounts, a determination to learn, and the opportunity of buying given to her, she will succeed. She will have satisfaction in spending the money her husband has brought into the home, showing him WOMAN'S RESPONSIBILITY AS BUYER how efficient she can be in making the amount cover the needs of the family. W OMEN are responsible for the quality of goods on the market. They think of themselves as buyers not as demanders, yet the supply is dependent upon the demand. The demander not only creates the supply, but she is responsible to a degree for the character of the supply; therefore she will not get the best supply until she learns best how to make her demands. If she desires a higher and more practical quality of goods placed on the market, she must demand it wisely and intelligently: in this way she will help determine production. Ready-to-wear clothing is frequently put together so poorly it has to be gone over before it can be worn; fasteners sewed on, seams resewed, threads fastened, and numerous other little details. This should be taken into account when buying, it forms bad habits of dealing with worthless imitations, it has its effect on the buyer as well as the maker of the article. A real workman takes little pleasure in making such an article, his joy is in creating from good material something worthy of his time and effort. OME families find it economical to buy materials and have the dress made at home by a visiting dressmaker, or put it out to be made by one. If the woman knows her 'dressmaker, she can frequently get a dress of style, with good lines, more exclusive, with greater indi- 369 viduality and better materials for less money than she could buy one ready-to-wear. But she must be sure of her dressmaker. An amateur cannot always visualize styles from patterns. She may place too much emphasis on the technique at the expense of construction; in such cases, the dress is not always satisfactory. Other families buy the ready-towear almost entirely; they keep their wardrobe to the minimum by having practically one dress ata time. They wear it until it is soiled or loses its freshness, then cast it aside and purchase a new one. This type of woman never has anything really nice, her clothes are usually of an inferior grade, made in the latest fashion and purchased with little regard to their durability. There is still another group of women who plan their wardrobe carefully. They have fewer gowns, but they are of the better type. They buy one each season. Great care is exercised in buying this gown, as it must last for several seasons; the style must be lasting, artistic, and exclusive. Each year they may add a dress or some other article to their wardrobe which will make it possbile for them to be presentable on all occasions. Such a woman can appear better dressed with no more cost than the one who buys a cheaper grade of gown more frequently. A point worth remembering in buying is for each woman to try and select clothing that will harmonize in color with her own coloring and with what clothing she already has in her wardrobe. In this way she can reduce the number of wraps, hats, gloves, shoes, and hosiery, since they will all fit into the same color scheme. 370 HE intelligent buyer must have a knowledge of conditions of industries, of manufacturers, of branded or unbranded clothing, a common knowledge of staple materials, their widths, prices, their wearing qualities, their fastness to sun and water, what materials wear best for certain purposes. She should have some knowledge of costume design and of house furnishings, she should know the simple home tests of materials in order to judge of their values as to the kind of raw materials used. This knowledge will bring her the largest possible returns for her money. She needs some business training to estimate her expenses. A household budget is one of the best economic methods for the wise spending of income. The fifteen or twenty per cent allowed for clothing can be spent more advantageously by knowing the amount she can spend in a given length of time. She should take an inventory of the clothing on hand, then try to provide suitable and attractive clothing for each member of her family. Her scheme should be so worked out that not only the vital needs are supplied, but some of the wants and desires should have a place in it. This makes the burden of buying easier. VERY woman desires decent, wholesome, and, if possible, beautiful clothing; she wishes them to be comfortable and, to a degree, conform to the prevailing styles. Two essential points which make an article pleasing to the eye are its color and its line. If she has but a little money to spend and exercises good judgment and good taste in spending it, she is much safer in this whirlpool of fads and fashions, and will no doubt arrive at a selection of right choice that will go far to make up her environment. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There is a class, however, who demonstrate a lack of ability as purchasers by indulging in every fad of fashion; who feel if a dress shows any signs of wear it should be cast aside; a dress that has been worn long enough to have been seen by one's acquaintances is no longer wearable. "Change must ever be the keynote; what was worn yesterday must not be worn today." These fads and fashions usually lack utility; they are made in such a way as to denote the year or even the season of the year they were used. There is a constant pressure brought to bear on women to keep in touch with such styles. If a woman is suffciently determined, she will see the pitfalls to which such dressing leads, but it does make it hard for the woman who really wants to choose wisely and who wishes to keep her wardrobe to the minimum number of articles. One great difficulty in shopping with a limited amount of money is the beautiful window displays, the style shows, the big page of advertising on which are shown the very articles she would like, but does not particularly need. Often her desires are so strong she is completely carried away for the time and buys some of these things. She wears them a few times with the thought always uppermost that she did not choose wisely; she paid too much; she used money that should have been spent for other clothing of a more practical nature. One derives very little satisfaction out of such a purchase. It brings to mind the saying that "he who buys what he does not need will often need what he cannot buy." Also, "In olden times women thought and thought and thought before the spent, now they spend and ther think and think and think."