I Love the Technocrats By H. R. Merrill tell you why. I have heard people lament the fact that they live in such a "busy" age, in such "hectic" times, when there are so many things to do that they cannot do anything well. They lament the passing of this "good old tradition" and that "good old custom." I haven't a great deal of patience with such people when I find them living in steam-heated apartments, beautifully lighted with the magic "juice," riding to their work in an automobile while some prima donna sings to them from their radio receiver overhead, calling their grocer on the telephone, and the gas company whenever the heat needs some repair. I could believe them if they would turn back to the old days. Now, needless to say, if there are any souls who really would like the old days back, I can tell them a hundred places where they may go to find them—and be happy. But I suspect that other people, even though they may wail about how Mary paints her lips or how little the home is used, also love the technocrats. Who are the technocrats? Why all of those beloved ladies and gentlemen from Adam to the present day who have been dissatisfied with things as they are and have constantly striven for a new world. Specifically, however, a technocrat is an inventor, a scientist, a scholar who has been able to recognize and analyze the forces around him and to take those forces and make them serve man in a new way. T love all such. | LOVE the technocrats and I'll The fact that a Dillinger will use a magnificent car to make his escape from a bank robbery, is not a condemnation of the car or the man who invented it. We have become complacent about some of the marvels which surround us. Not long ago I was sitting before my fireplace when suddenly the room was flooded with glorious song. It was a great lifting melody by a magnificent voice. I was thrilled, but I was not moved as I used to be. When we first brought a radio into the home, had such a golden flood of music enveloped us, I would have reached for the telephone and told half the town that some great one was singing. A little later, I learned that it was the incomparable Rosa Ponselle. JI did not call a single soul. No one ever calls me. The air now is too full of the world's greatest for us to single out one program and telephone about it. T love the long line of technocrats, however, who brought Rosa Ponselle into my home. JI can see them, one behind another, a long line extending into infinity as did Banquo's sons before the astonished gaze of Macbeth. And one of our modern inventions is the product of an almost never ending line of scientists, technicians, and inventors. Take as an example the automobile. Whenever I step into mine, though it is not new or very smart, I get a thrill at thinking of the band of prancing horses that are miraculously harnessed under its hood. As I set them in motion and skim over the roads at speeds even the fastest of horses could not equal, I see, be- 350 sides those invisible horses, the crowds of shadowy inventors adding their bit to my miracle of the road. For instance, there are the inventors and makers of wheels reaching from before the dawn of history —all sorts of wheels—ordinary, wood wheels sawed from a log, wheels with spokes and steel tires and hard rubber tires and pneumatic tires; crank wheels, cog wheels, differentials, ring-gears, and on ad infinitum. How many applications of the principle of the wheel in a modern car? J don't know. You count them from the fan to the timpkin bearings. Then there are the fuel makers from wood to gasoline; the iron workers and inventors from the crude smith of the iron age to the expert fabricators of 1935 who were able to turn out one-piece steel auto bodies, beautifully designed; the fuel and oil systems; the lighting and heating devices ranging from oil or gas lamps, only a quarter of a century ago, to an electric system as perfect as that used by a city. I stand in awe before a car—and that host of shadowy technocrats who gave it to me. Our pioneers, less than a hundred years ago, came across the plains in wagons and with handcarts whose tires wore out and broke in a thousand miles, whose axles gave way and whose wheels fell to pieces. Twenty thousand miles barely breaks a modern car in and some travel over a hundred thousand miles. All around me are these gifts from the past. This magazine, this page, are products from the brains and hands of thousands who were not satisfied with the slower progress of learning. Behind them are the paper makers, the ink makers, and the typemachine inventors, the hundreds of pressmen who have added here and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE added there to make printing cheap and education popular. The technocrats have made the world over and over again. Each generation adds beauty and art, conveniences and culture, éducation and truth faster than the one before. The art of printing gave wings to all processes. It sped up technocracy until the world of humanity was hardly prepared for the blessings showered upon it. Each man, woman, and child, we are told, were given approximately forty slaves each. It is not strange that many of us know little about using them, neither is it strange that we all love these mechanical genii we have to do our bidding. It is fortunate that Christianity had advanced far before the greatest gifts of teclnocracy had been received by the world, for Christianity anchors the human soul to the higher purposes of life. Through its teachings, fortunately, nearly all of the modern giants are good giants; nearly all use their forty slaves constructively rather than destructively. The magnificent work of the technocrats could be illustrated by thousands of examples. The slaves we have to do our bidding are legion. As a result, truly, many of the old virtues have passed away, but in their places have come and may come many and greater virtues. It has always been so; it is my belief it will always be so, for learning is on the way and must keep on until we all "come to a knowledge of the truth," but it is questionable if we shall ever know all truth. And so, for one, I love the technocrats. My problem is to keep up with them in intellectual and spiritual understanding in order that I may use my precious "forty slaves" constructively and for the betterment of my neighbors and me.