The Land of Books By Maude O. Cook Traveler enters; studies traveler's guide; looks in all directions. TRAVELER: Before me lies the Land of Books, I have come far to find it; much has been written of the delightful refreshment it affords the weary traveler. It is fair indeed to look upon. (Reads guide) I am told that if I desire peace'and assurance, I shail find it here; if it is pleasure I seek, it is near at hand; if I would know of, other lands and peoples, I have but to enter this enchanting realm; if on adventure bent, such conditions as I crave will be provided; or if I would escape from care, here in flights of fancy I may scale the heights and span the universe. (looks up from book) This is all well and good, but how shall a stranger, such as I, proceed to search out these marvels in so vast an expanse as this which lies before me? I know not how to begin nor where to enter. Guide enters. GuIpE: Welcome, stranger, you seem to be perplexed, let me assist you, I pray. TRAVELER: Kind friend, I desire to enter the Land of Books in search of new adventures. I have been told that it is a most pleasing place. GuipE: The Land of Books is open to all, enter and enjoy the good things it has in store for all who would explore its wonders. TRAVELER: I would gladly do as you bid, but the vastness: of the field bewilders me. GuipveE: I shall summon my helpers and they shall unfold to you some of the delights to be found in this fascinating domain. If you desire they shall accompany you in your travels. TRAVELER: You are most kind; companions and much to the pleasures of a journey. A stranger in your good land would soon become hopelessly confused and lost if no one were at hand to direct the way. Guide claps hands, Romance of Long Ago enters. GuIpE: Here is a lonely traveler who wishes to visit the Land of Books; tell him where your path leads. Romance oF Lone Aco: Iam Romance of Long Ago; if you follow me, oh stranger, I shall lead you into many lands and climes. Magic palaces, fairy god-mothers, dancing elves, mystic shadows are all along the wayside. The Orient, with all its gorgeous color and splendor, is awaiting you, to impress you with its strange witchery, its dreaminess and languid allurement, its entrancing mysteries and illusions, its pomp and ceremony. Here you shall meet Sinbad, the Sailor, Aladdin with his Magic Lamp, Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves; perhaps the Caliph of Bagdad, himself, that " great monarch of fiction" will honor you with a visit. You may explore the depths of India in "The Clay Cart" or you may go to the land of the north and listen to good, old Hans Christian Anderson tell of "The Steadfast Tin Soldier," or "The Ugly Duckling." You may wish to become acquainted with "The Soul of the Great Bell," a beautiful Chinese myth, or to have Hamilton Mabie retell those thrilling Norse Stories. You may follow Evangeline in quest of her long-lost Gabriel. If none of these appeal to you,— I am sure when you reach "The Land 390 of the Blue Flower" you will wish to linger. TRAVELER: You indeed have much to please and entertain, but I must hear more before I choose. Guipe: I shall call the Glory of the Commonplace. Guide claps hands, the Glory of the Commonplace enters, THE GLory oF tHE CommonPLACE: I am the Glory of the Commonplace. I can show you no fairy god-mothers nor magic palaces, but I shall lead you to see the stars, the flowers, and the birds. I shall show you the humble cottage and the toilworn peasant. You shall sit with me by the fireside as the wind roars and the snowstorm rages without. You shall listen to the whir of the spinning-wheel and the sputtering of the apples as they roast upon the hearth, while tales of the long ago are recounted o'er and o'er. You shall crack nuts "from the brown October's wood" and drink the simmering cider from the old blue mug as you watch the sparks fly up the great-throated chimney. With Whittier in "Snowbound" you shall shout with glee as you watch the "half-buried oxen" break through the highpiled snow. You may go with Goldsmith to "The Deserted Village" and sigh for departed friends and old familiar scenes. You may stand upon the hillside with Gray as— "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day. As the lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea," and view the little village as it nestles round the ivy-covered church. You May rejoice in the tender humor of James Whitcomb Riley, as with mingled smiles and tears you go "Out to Old Aunt Mary's" or to "The Ole Swimmin' Hole," or meet "Little RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Orphan Annie," or "An Old Sweetheart of Mine." If this fails to please, you may en joy romance with "Janice Meredith," or "Richard Carvel." In these simple, homely things you may find "Acres of Diamonds." TRAVELER: Your offering is rich. (to guide) What have you more? Guide claps hands, Soul Harbors enters. Sout Harzors: I am Soul Harbors. I shall reveal to you the ideals, the dreams, and the hopes that lie nearest the heart. I tell of friendships lost, of dear ones gone, of sorrows mellowed with the passing years, of visions fair of glories yet to be. With Tennyson "In Memoriam" you may dream of another, greater life. "That God which ever lives and loves: One God, one law, one element, And one far off divine event To which the whole creation moves." GuIDE: We have given you a glimpse of the pleasures to be had in the Land of Books; there is more to offer. Perhaps you prefer the Magic of Imagination, if so you must meet "Peter Pan," or "The Blue Bird," or you may dance with the fairies in "Mid-summer Night's Dream." You may choose to visit old England with "David Copperfield," or rejoice with Browning as "Pippa Passes." There are many nooks and secluded spots which offer rest and quiet where you may enjoy such choice companions as Benjamin F ranklin, or Elbert Hubbard, or Sam Johnson; even Jane Austen or Jane Eyre HAIL THE DAY TRIUMPHANT may reveal to you their life's story. If you wish to. Journey nearer home, we shall introduce to you, Lambourne's "Plet" or Alfred Osmond's "Exiles," an epic of the Utah pioneers. TRAVELER: Yours is a realm of charm and allurement. You whet my desire to know more of it. I would explore it all if that were possible. Guipe: My friend, on the 3rd Tuesday of each month we conduct 391 a Relief Society excursion into this wonderland and all who wish may join us. TRAVELER: I am most happy to have so great a privilege and assure you [ shall not fail to meet you on the 3rd Tuesday of each month. Suggestions for costumes: Traveler and Guide: Hiking togs. Romance of Long Ago: Oriental costume, gay and bright. Glory of the Commonplace: Plain dress, such as the Quaker costume. Soul Harbors: Soft white robe.