[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. James H. Anderson. American troops have been withdrawn from Mexico; but Villa is not yet captured or killed. A German war vessel sank fifteen freight ships in the South Atlantic in December, whereupon a British squadron was sent in search of the raider. German war successes continued in Rumania during the past month. On the other war fronts there was little change in the situation from the previous month. Switzerland fears being forced into actual war in the great European conflict, and has mobilized all her available military strength. Utah Guardsmen were withdrawn from the Mexican border the last week in January. All the Utah troops are back home, and glad of it. A Temple for the Latter-day Saints is being talked of for Mesa, Arizona, and may be an assured fact within a few years. A sugar factory has been decided upon for Cornish, in Cache county, Utah, and the West Cache Sugar Company organized to build it. Nudity in moving picture shows has been condemned by the National board of censors, and none too soon to restrict the coarseness which produced such exhibitions. President Wilson addressed the United States Senate on a universal peace plan on January 22; but the United States could not display sufficient strength to enforce such a plan, and universal peace is not in sight by any human means yet devised. Cold and stormy weather for the longest period Utah has experienced in more than thirty years has been the record for December and January. After such a winter, spring is doubly welcome. CURRENT TOPICS. 159 A Mormon Battalion monument to cost $200,000 is proposed, and the State has been asked to contribute half the sum necessary, upon the other half being raised by popular subscription. Two Aviators of the United States army lost their way on a flight eastward from California in January, and landed in Lower California, whence they were rescued when almost dead from exhaustion. They claim the compass went wrong. The word "sex," as an addition in the fifteenth amendment to the National Constitution, has been proposed in Congress. Its adoption would admit women to the elective franchise all over the Union.