MOTHER
Words and Music by GEORGE WOODRUFF
Published by Daynes-Beebe Music Co.
SALT LAKE CITY
The Ideal Song For Mother's Day
The sweet melody and tender sentiment of this beautiful song instantly win the hearts of all who hear it. Price 40 cents postpaid. Remit with order and save C. O. D. Fee.
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO.
"Older Than The State of Utah"
61 to 65 So. Main, Salt Lake
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY
159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
Built to Endure
NOT WHAT YOU MAKE, BUT WHAT YOU SAVE, COUNTS
$2.50 per month will mature $500.00
5.00 per month will mature 1000.00
7.50 per month will mature 1500.00
10.00 per month will mature 2000.00
Series estimated 131 months
Prudential Building Society
Geo. M. Cannon, Pres.
204 Kearns Bldg.
Geo. Q. Morris, Sec.
Was. 2789
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask for one of our folders describing the different services

Wes By Blanche Kendall McKee Third poem to receive honorable mention in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Z She was my sister there, in that dim land I F Known only through the light of faith, i Or through some haunting memory which dim suggests f A greater light, seen in some lost Before; She was my sister There. I ' As sisters laugh and dream mayhap we grew; I loved her there in sweet equality; 4 In comradeship I held her hand, No generation crowding in between To mar the equal vision of our eyes. She must have been more stalwart there than I, For she came first and bore the heavy load; She heard the call mine ears might not have caught; She trod the dreary miles across the waste; 'With one she loved she made a home secure— And then I came. O heritage, how have I paid for thee? Lapped in a thousand comforts, how do I know thy cost? How can I count the sacrifice she made for me— Who was her sister There? Behold me, little mother, where I stand; Behold me, fading eyes which always faced the light: That dim, illusive memory of faint, far Days I know through thee; Your gleaming, steady glow you gave to me; Behold me, all unworthy, where I stand With eyes that pierce the cloudless, starbright skies, Straining towards that light I knew before— Even as water climbs its upward way, Instinctive rising towards its mountain-topped source; To thee in graitutde I'm doubly bound: For mortal motherhood I bow my head,; And for that light which thou didst pass to me I bend my knee. And Lo! The music of that far, faint Day I hear again, immortalized by love!. Why should one weep because of weakening clay? Stalwart thou wert; stalwart still thou art— Can I but faithful be, together we shall smile again, With priestlike eyes, in God's great Brighter Day.