Life's Sunset By Amy M. Rice Dedicated to President and Mrs. Stephen L. Chipman, who have shown me that the evening of life can be most beautiful. I stood and watched the glory of a sunset on the hills, As the storm clouds slowly lifted one by one. And I saw their silver lining edged with crimson and gold, Reflecting back the glory of the sun. So dark and drear the day had been, that I had felt oppressed, And life seemed sad and stormy like the day. But as I watched the wonder of that vision in thé west, My doubts and fears all seemed to fade away. And when storms beat upon us; like the sapling we are swayed. Sometimes we're bent and humbled in the blast. But how strong we grow, and noble, if we've battled undismayed, 'Till the sun brings us a rainbow at the last. Into every life comes sorrow. Into every life comes pain. Else we'd never know the joy of peace and rest. But there's always a tomorrow, like the sunshine after rain, And we find it when our God may deem it best. So J'll put the storms behind me, and I'll face the setting sun. Onward, ever striving for the goal. And I'll shed a happy radiance, when my day is almost done; For I'll keep a little sunshine in my soul. And at last in life's sweet evening, when the sun is sinking low, ' And before its rays the clouds all melt away, May they show their silver lining edged with crimson and with gold, And reflect the glory of a perfect day. Jeanie Duncan's Promise Mary Allen The setting sun stole in through the little window and lingered caressingly on the bed of the dying woman, lighting up her pale face with an almost unearthly brilliance. Quietness reigned supreme, save for the sound of the children's voices which could be heard outside in the garden. A young woman sat at the bedside, with her mother's hand clasped firmly in her own warm one. She had sat thus for more than an hour, watching her sleeping mother, scarcely daring to breathe. Suddenly the sleeper stirred uneasily and opened her eyes. "Th, Jeanie," she said wearily, "I hae been dreamin' of heaven, Pll sure be there. I dinna think I'll live tae see mony mair sunsets here noo." Jeanie remained silent and big tears rolled down her cheeks. "Dinna greet lassie,' began the' sick woman, "I'm wearyin' tae be awa, if you only kent the pain Il hae suffered this lang time, bit that's naething tae the thochts that worries me what's tae come ower your faither and the bairns when I'm taen awa an' you mairret tae Bob Laidlaw. Jeanie," she went on pleadingly, "maybe I'm selfish an' I ken it micht be gey hard for you, but I wad like you tae mak me a promise, wad you no pit aff your marriage for aboot three years, and look after them a' you ken yersel your faither's no very strong at times, an by that time Kate'll be able tae manage. You'll only be aboot twenty-three by then; time enough tae enter the cares 0' the world." "Mak your mind easy mother,". Replied \Jeanie, "I hae been thinkin' aboot a' thae things. "Il promise you 'no ta leave faither or the bairns for mony a lang day, my duty will be tae them God helpin' me.' "Thank God for thae words, lassie. God'll help you. He never forsakes them that dae their duty. You'll find that oot by and by." Shortly afterwards Mrs. Duncan passed away, surrounded by her family, comforted and re-assured that her eldest daughter would look after them when she was gone. Glencraig, where the 'scenes of the story are laid, was an old-fashioned Scottish village, nestling in the heart of the Perthshire hills. The Duncan's cottage was one of a half a dozen which stood in one of the little streets leading off the main road. Each one boasted of a most luxuriant little garden and pathway which led up to the house. ' It was a warm July evening, about a month after Mrs. Duncan's death. The air was heavy with the scent of roses and other flowers. Jeanie stood at the door of the cottage, her eyes full of