Lucy Gates Bowen. We are always happy to welcome Mrs. Gilman to our state, for she is one of those dynamic characters who stirs us up and makes us think. The Tribune, of March 29, announces that she is to be a lecturer at the Brigham Young University during the Summer session of 1927. We are informed from the office of the president of the University of Utah that she will also be a lecturer at the Summer session of that institution. In all probability she will be included among the Summer lecturers at the State Agricultural College. A good deal of publicity is being given to George Bernard Shaw this season because of his having reached his seventieth year. One of the things good critics say of Mr. Shaw is that his writings are first of all important because of the ideas he has contributed. We feel that the same thing is true of Mrs. Gilman. However forceful and pleasing her style may be, we value her most of all for the ideas she has given us; ideas which will go on working for the benefit of humanity when her books may no longer be read. A Mother Book We have on the desk a very pretty book with a spray of roses on lavender paper decorated with lavender ribbon that contains, inside of an oval ring, the word Mother. It is the cover to a book containing eight poems dedicated to mother by Theodore EDITORIAL 
 Curtis, author of Lyrics of the Westland. The frontispiece contains a picture of Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet Joseph, and on the last page we find a picture of Louie B. Felt, who is called by the author, "the first official mother of our 100,000 primary children, whose period of service covered nearly 50 years." Below this inscription is the sentence, "She has been mother to most of us." In our editorial on mothers we have included from this little book the poem; "What is Home Without a Mother." We shall include one stanza from the poem, "Mothers' Day," that our readers may judge of the merit of the poems: MOTHER'S DAY *Tis Mothers' Day. Around it clings A thousand tender memories. And in my heart a carol rings— A carol sweet of love and praise. How oft her smiles, how oft her tears, Have turned the tide of thought and deed; For she has been, through all the years, My angel in the hour of need.