mother's angry face the little girl jumped to her feet and hurried across the vacant lot.: "Yes, mother," she said, still munching unconsciously on the offending morsel.; "Haven't I forbidden you to eat between meals?" "Yes, mother.": "What are you eating?" The stern voice frightened Margaret. She hung her head. The answer was almost a whisper. "Lorna's piece of bread." "Lorna's bread! How did you get Lorna's bread?" "T—IJ—I just took it from her." Martha's self control gave way. A wave of unreasoning anger and shame swept over her. That her child, always carefully fed, should take dirty little Lorna's bread! At the thought of the filthy kitchen where that bread was made, of the grimy little paw that had held it first, nausea swept over the shocked mother. Snatching the frightened child by one arm she almost swung her through the house to the kitchen. Then pausing by the coal bucket she commanded, "Spit it out at once! Every crumb! Now, go and bring your tricycle around to the back. You can't go out again today. Such a naughty girl! Mother is ashamed of you." * The little girl obeyed quietly. Never had she seen her mother so angry. As she went out of the door Martha's heart smote her, for there was something so crushed in her silence, her hanging head, her dragging feet. After all it was she who was to blame. How silly that display of temper! She must talk to Margaret ' when she came in. Margaret dragged the tricycle onto the back porch, then stood leaning against the door frame, a drooping, pathetic little figure. "Margaret, honey," the mother began. At the tender tone the child looked up. As she met her mother's eyes she burst into tears. Between sobs that racked her slender body she gasped, "You've spoiled all the party. Oh, I never had so much fun in— all—my—life. It was such a lovely party." Martha dropped into a chair and drew her little daughter upon her knee. "What party are you talking about, dear?" "Lorna's party. You made me spit mine out." 
 "Made you spit your party out?" "Lorna had a big piece of bread and she said, 'Le's p'tend it's a party, and this is the ice cream and 'freshments.' She cut it all in little weentsy pieces, and we was havin' lots of fun." "What was on the bread, dear?" "Just nothin' at all. Only bread." "Why, Margaret, you don't need to eat dry bread. Mother will give you some with jam on it, and a nice glass of milk. I'll let you take my butterfly lunch cloth and you can have a little party all yourself." Martha was eager to make amends for her sharpness. "Don't want jam; don't want nothin' on it! 'Tisn't any fun to eat alone! It's the company and the make believe that make the party fun.' And the tears came again. Poor baby! All unconsciously she had voiced the age-old cry of the human heart for romance and companionship. The words, aided perhaps by the scents and sounds of Spring on every hand, transported Martha back through the years to her childhood days. As the balmy breeze came in the open door she felt again the thrill her child-self had always known when Spring housecleaning was begun. She remembered how the shabby old carpet used to be thrown over the line awaiting the beating that sent such clouds of dust over the fence and grass. How she and Maggie Birnie used to love that day. Between the dusty folds of the carpet they had a wonderful tent. There they would sit half suffocated by dust, with rivulets of prespiration trickling down their grimy. Faces as they munched in ecstasy on some odds and ends they had pilfered for the camping party. Ah, the thrills of that great adventure! Margaret was right. It wouldn't be a party without the company and the make believe. A sudden understanding came to the mother. "T'm sorry, dear. I didn't understand. The party isn't over, is it?" "No," Margaret's voice was tragic. "It only just began when I had to—had to—" sobs came again. "You can go back and finish it, if you want to. Wouldn't you like to take some apples for your share of the party? Wipe your eyes and hurry, dear." She picked out the rosy fruit as she spoke. "There now, little. Daughter, have a good time. I'll call you when I need you," and she kissed the transfigured little face. Long after Margaret had gone, Martha sat by the table, her work forgotten. Memory once aroused, brought before her a score of pictures from the days when she, too, was a little girl, eager for play and playmates. What glorious adventures she and Maggie had had in the old apple tree that could change so magically from prancing steeds to fairies' bower, from fairies' bower to "MOTHERS ALWAYS IS" 2a/ pirate ship. What new vistas Maggie's quick imagination had opened to the quiet, shy girl who had been herself. She smiled at the picture of motherless Maggie Birnie—yes, she had been as dirty as any McSwinney; her grammar was atrocious, nay, more, if occasion seemed to demand, she could even swear a bit. And yet she had never been harmed by her friendship for this generous, impulsive, playmate, for whom her own gentle mother had always had a smile and a cooky. All at once Martha saw her own problem in a new light. All her tender care could never teach her children to stand alone as life would demand that they should stand, unless she let them learn how to glean the best from the companions of their daily life. That must be the mother's part, to love, to guide, to understand, but hardest of all to "keep hands off" at the proper time. A tender smile came to her face and lingered on her lips as she again set about her housework. Passing the half open window she caught snatches from the party. "Now play like this is the strawberries!" Lorna's shrill voice was joyous. Then from Margaret: "Next time we'll have a party on my porch. I'll ask my mama to let me give the treat. My mama's the nicest mama in the world, ain't she?" "Um-hm-m," mumbled Lorna happily. "Mine is, too. Mothers always is." Motherhood By Camilla W. Judd May all earth's flowers bloom for you today, And all the skies shine bright with heaven's love; And every bird a throbbing tribute pay, 'Oh motherwoman, called of God above— To bear and magnify love's great behest; Trusting the great divine Omnipotence You suffer, triumph, live,—God does the rest— And baby lips are your sweet recompense. ll lll lll ll ll ll ll ll ll ll ll lt Mother By Olive Belnap Jensen Mother! Dear mother! So noble and true, In all time to come, can I ever pay you For the life that you gave me; the price that you paid When your own life for mine on the altar you laid— That here among mortals on earth I might be— Can I comprehend what you then did for me? Mother! Dear mother! So faithful and kind, Where, among all others, could I ever find One so loyal and constant; an unchanging friend To champion my cause, all my rights to defend; To spend years of her time in hard labor and care, With days of devotion and long nights of prayer? Mother! Dear mother! Unselfish and pure, Your lofty ideals shall forever endure.' All the things that you taught me, while yet in my youth, The examples you set of the gospel of truth Are signals to guide me; are lights to my way That lead from the gloom to the glory of day. Mother! Dear mother! So noble and true, I cannot repay, though some things I can do. May the body you gave me be kept clean and pure. Over hilltop and valley with footing secure, May I follow the light on toward the great goal, Which you have marked out for to save my soul. Se ea cal cet cel ely clin cll ain aii cai dil cn aii amin ami Inn ai ain nn cn in i en i nin in i in ins i lin i ins i i i i i in i i i i i i ai i i i i i a in i i i i i i a a ls si Ai dil dil Ai Mila lin li ln i i in i lin li a i i i i i i i i i i i in i i i in i i i i i i i i i a et ll lll all ln cll nll lnc, lad, pwwwwuwwwwwvwvvwewe*« The above picture furnishes a group of mothers. The dearly beloved greatgreat-grandmother is Mrs. Isabell Wilson Bruce, who has reached her 86th year. The great-grandmother is Mrs. Elizabeth Bruce Kennedy, who lacks 4 years of being 3 score years and ten. Mrs. Bell Kennedy Bellman is the honored grand-mother and is 43 years of age, while the mother, Mrs. Ethel Bellman Lambourn is 26 years of age. Miss Lyean Lambourn, who stands with her; mother's arms about her, is 8 years of age. I I I I I FP a a i i i i i in in iin ln li, ln, Mii iin lin in iin tli iin tn ln in lin, li tn lin i lin tn cin in din nn nn in din in tin in cin din in lin iin in dilantin din Ain in din i in in tii dian tit, li iin i dilins dn. Dili Milin n ili lln tin, tlin, n Religious Training in the Home By Mary E. Cutler The fundamental thing in life is religion. Faith in the true God, hope for the future, righteousness in thought and deed, repentance of sin, forgiveness for others, these are religion, these are life at its best. Take these from man and he becomes less than man, a mere beast, even though he have a ponderous brain and a cultured intellect. Give these to man and he becomes refined in nature, beatific in soul, and divine in his possibilities. True religion is simply true life—life at its highest, noblest, grandest. Every movement, every thought, every failure and every success is simply the expression of one's religion. Religious training should begin in the home, because that is where life begins. Religious training should begin in the home, because the real home is the most fertile soil and the best climate for the religious life. The body, the limbs, the digestion, the circulation, and the facial features of the child are given it by its physical heredity; the child's first and most lasting religious attitudes are given it just as certainly by its parents. The prejudices, the tastes, the habits, the prayers, even to the words of the parents are taken over by the child bodily. It is natural that it should be so. For the first two years of the child's life, the