[Vol26 | December 1939 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Relief Society And Darger]
Each candle was an infinitesimal but certain testimony that the Star which hung over Bethlehem, had shone with a Light eternal. The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan By Eva W. Darger Director of Relief Society Employment Bureau which the Relief Society has been actively interested during its entire history is the finding of employment for women and girls of the Church. At the present time, when so much stress is being placed upon securing work for the unemployed, the efforts of this department have been greatly increased. The Relief Society Employment Department concerns itself almost entirely with domestic service, which includes housekeepers, general house workers, mothers' helpers, cooks, nurse maids, laundresses, day workers and practical nurses. An average of two hundred and fifty domestic workers are placed by this department each month.
Although there are no definite legal standards to regulate this group of workers, we are doing all we can to raise the standards and requirements of the homes as well as those of the workers through our placement procedure. The procedure includes investigations for satisfactory and permanent placements, adjustment of difficulties, friction and misunderstandings, coordination of training and placement, informal discussion with employers and employees before placement, and follow-up work. A personal interview with each individual applicant is necessary, during which the history of the person, her education, experience, training Or phase of welfare work in and fitness for the position applied for is thoroughly discussed.
References from former employers as to experience, ability and character are checked, and the applicant is classified accordingly. If the applicant is inexperienced, personal references for character and background from reliable sources are required; then, the best opportunity for the applicant to consider is suggested.
Many older women, untrained in any particular field, who are forced into the business world are helped to find employment as domestic workers, nurses or day workers.
