Pearl H. Crockett Long Live Your Poinsettia (Continued from page 820) the room dropped suddenly, or it may have been in the path of a cold draft. In this case, immerse the pot into warm water to remove the chill from the roots. Keep the plant in a part of the house where the temperature is likely to remain the same degree both day and night. Poinsettias are not continuous bloomers and will show signs of tiredness along in February?granting that you have taken proper care of them that long. The leaves will droop and fall as the rest period approaches. The shrub can then be cut down and the pot set away until about August. Its blooming time is over, and its sleepy time has come. In return for proper care, the poinsettia will preserve for you your Christmas joys until other plants have appeared to relieve the drowsy poinsettia and to take up the job of bringing happiness where the poinsettia has left off. Starting the Child Right Food plays such an important part in the up-bringing of healthy children that modern parents listen eagerly to the findings of experts. From all authoritative sources comes a chorus of praise for milk, as one of the most important foods for children. Milk combines in balanced form a great many of the health elements so essential to the proper growth and general well-being of active boys and girls. Authorities say that every child should have a quart of milk a day in some form, whether as a beverage or combined with other foods. Irradiated vitamin D milk is recognized as an excellent source of the precious sunshine vitamin which is essential to the building and nourishment of straight, strong bones and sound, even teeth. Science has come to our aid by enriching milk with vitamin D by irradiation with ultra-violet rays, like sun's rays. A quart of irradiated vitamin D milk every day will supply a normal child with the required amount of vitamin D for sturdy health. Make this A BOOK CHRISTMAS Give Books and the selection of your Christmas presents becomes a delight instead of a chore. You'll have just as much pleasure picking out the right books for the right people as your friends will when they receive and read them. Besides Books?we have a great variety of other Gift Articles?in fact, this is "the Store of a Thousand Gifts". We also have a complete stock of Relief Society supplies and lesson material. Make this friendly store your Gift and Book headquarters. Deseret Book Company 
Phone Wasatch 6967
Wouldn't Mother Like a New GAS RANGE For Christmas? For easier cooking at lower cost CONVENIENT TERMS Start Him Right Every child should have a quart of milk every day?to drink, or combined with other foods. Cloverleaf Milk brings the added benefit of an extra supply of sunshine vitamin D which helps build strong bones and sound teeth. It costs no more than ordinary milk Cloverleaf MOUNTAIN FUEL When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine 44
East South Temple Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk Home of Fine Dairy Products Salt Lake City, Utah SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake ? Ogden ? Provo Serving 23
Utah Communities that will bring delight to your lady Christmas Tributes that will bring delight to your lady. Let the gift that carries your Christmas message of love and cheer be one of quality. It's the priceless ingredient that distinguishes every gift in ZCMI's glorious profusion, whether your choice is silverware at several dollars or several hundred, flattering perfume inexpensive or priceless, exquisite apparel much or moderately priced. Her delight in beauty and usefulness will be your constant pleasure for years to come. ZCMI Gift center of the west