song. ;  The world seems strange and dark to me. I gaze upon the woodland vales. Xo more they seem so wondrous fair;  I look up to the mountain heights. But storm clouds cast a shadow there. I try to see my duty clear. To smile, though sorrow pierce my heart;  I try to conquer doubt and fear. To hide my grief, and do my part. I try to walk the narrow way, To keep my face turned toward the light. And in my soul, I feel and know There's one who doeth all things right. Rexburg, Idaho. Guide Lessons LESSON I. Genealogy and Testimony First Week in May. MORE LIGHT ON BAPTISM FOR THE DEAD. TEXT: "The Compendium." AIM: The prominent feature in the plan of redemption is the vicarious nature of the labors of Christ and his ministers for the salvation of men. The Lord knows the transient nature of the memory of many. He understands how forgetful we would become if we were not continually reminded of him and his love, his laws, and his kingdom, so he has given us scriptures which are the sacred writings prepared by prophets and priests, who have written about his hand-dealings with his children upon the earth. The standard books of the Church are our scriptures that contain a vast store of information of every conceivable principle of truth, morality, and virtue. It would be a superhuman task to memorize all these scriptures and to quote them at a moment's notice. Some gifted speakers can quote freely and liberally, favorite passages illustrating favorite doctrines of the Church;  but wise men have prepared for the assistance of the great majority of Saints' references to the passages in scripture which deal with the various subjects and principles of the gospel. The "Compendium" was the first one so prepared, and in that volume we find an excellent, brief article concerning baptism for the dead, with numerous references from the sermons of our modern prophets. Another article treats upon the spirits in prison, and contains elaborate and precious quotations from the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrines and Covenants. The vicarious mission of the savior is treated simply and clearly, and we are told that this vicarious labor included not only the possible salvation for the living ones who heard the glad tidings of great joy, but the prisoners in the pit and those who sit in darkness in the prison-house are all to be visited and given an opportunity to accept the gospel. Elijah's coming to the earth is referred to and the sweeping GUIDE LESSONS 235 nature of his work is outlined: "Ordinances for the salvation of the dead require temples, or sacred places especially constructed for their administration. The Former-day Saints usually remained in the same scattered condition in which they received the gospel. For these reasons, it is probable that the doctrines pertaining to the salvation of the dead were imperfectly taught. This may account for so little being said in the New Testament on this subject." In the article on "Spirits in Prison," very comprehensive ideas are given concerning the prisoners who are gathered in the pit. The writings of the Nephites, the Hebrews, and the revelations of the Prophet Joseph Smith, prove that the spirits in prison were known to the ancient Saints, as well as to the modern prophet. Nephi tells us, "Wherefore, death and hell must deliver up their dead, and hell must deliver up its captive spirits, and the grave must deliver up its captive bodies, and the bodies and the spirits of men will be restored one to the other." These spirits, which are delivered from hell, are not the spirits of the righteous, for, in the thirteenth verse of the same chapter, the prophet says, "For on the other hand, the paradise of God must deliver up the spirits of the righteous." The Doctrine and Covenants clearly indicates where the spirits of those who receive not the message of the Savior are confined. "In another revelation we are informed, that a number of those who inherit a terrestrial glory, will be 'The spirits of men kept in prison, whom the Son visited, and preached the gospel unto them, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, who received not the testimony of Jesus in the flesh, but afterwards received it.' " Note: Class leaders may arrange questions for this lesson. LESSON II. Work and Business (Required.) Second Week in May. Literature (Optional.) TENNYSON'S QUEEN OF MAY. From Chaucer, the father of English poetry, to William Watson, now living, English poets have honored and glorified the month of May. For this there is much reason, for 
 England, always beautiful, is surpassingly lovely in the month of May. All over the country is a mass of pink and white blossoms, for the Hawthorne hedges, that surround every farm and border every country lane, are in full bloom. The May-day revels of days gone by were a national institution in England, and the memory of them is still a national institution. One Englishman, eager to perpetuate so good a custom, had endowed a certain English city in order that May revels may be presented there each year. Some notion of how May-day was celebrated in England, in former times, may be had from the following description: "At the dawn of the May morning, the lads and lassies left their towns and villages, and, repairing to the woodlands, to the sounds of music, they gathered the Hawthorne blossoms, or branches, of the trees, and, binding them with wreathes of flowers returned to their homes, and at sunrise decorated the lattice and door with the sweet smelling spoil of their joyous journey." Later they assembled on the village green where a pageant was conducted. In the course of the celebration the May-pole was drawn in by eight fine oxen, decorated with gayly colored scarfs and ribbons and flowers. When the May-pole came into sight the people began cheering, which cheering continued until the pole was raised. Then followed revels and dances and at the proper time the Queen entered and the May dance followed, forming a fitting climax of this truly wonderful pageant. Hence, we discover that a national costume of centuries forms the settings of the Queen of the May. It should be read with great care and all such points noted. When we get the setting we can appreciate the exultation of the Queen of the May when she says: "You must wake and call me early, call me early, mother dear, Tomorrow'll be the happiest time of all the glad New Year: Of all the glad New Year: Of all the glad New Year, mother, the maddest merriest day. For I'm to be Queen of the May, mother, I'm to be Queen of the May. "There's many a black, black eye, they say, But none so bright as mine, There's Margaret and Mary, there's Kate and Caroline;  But none so fair as little Alice, in all the land they say: So, I'm to be Queen of the May, mother, I'm to be Queen of the May. GUIDE LESSONS 237 "That sleep shall so sound never all wake night, mother, If you do not call me loud, when the day begins to break;  But I must gather knots of flowers and buds and garlands gay, For I'm to be Queen of the Alay, mother, I'm to be Queen of the May. "Little Effie shall go with me tomorrow, to the green, And you'll be there, too, mother, to see me made the Queen: For the shepherd lads on every side will come from far away, And I'm to be Queen of the May, mother, I'm to be Queen of the May." Another feature in the "Queen of the May" that is attracting a great deal of attention at the present time is the thought that our loved ones, though departed, are still near to us. This thought has gripped the human family tremendously, since so many have passed in the late war, and the epidemic that has raged throughout the world. It is safe to say that no other idea appears to be of more general interest to the civilized people, just now, than the passing of the dead, and their ability to return and take an interest in the living, hence, these lines from Tennyson's "Queen of the May" have taken on new significance. There is a good deal of objection at the present time to many things that are being advocated in literature in relation to the spirit world. These lines of Tennyson state a fact that is perfectly natural to those professing the faith of the Latter-day Saints, that our loved ones are often near us when we think them far away: "You'll bury shade. me, my mother, just beneath the Hawthorne And you'll laid, come sometimes and see me, when I am lowly I shall not forget you, mother, I shall hear you when you pass, With your feet above my head in the long and pleasant grass. "If I can, I'll come again, mother, from out my resting place;  Though you'll not see me, mother, I shall look upon your face;  Though saIy,can not speak a word, I shall hearken what you And be often, often with you, when you think I'm far away." 
 The music of the "Queen of the May" has always been very much appreciated and admired by readers and critics. Tennyson is a master at the art of making music in verse. It is difficult to find in our literature a poem more musical than the "Queen of the May." We quote one stanza that seems to us replete with music: "The honeysuckle bowers, around the porch has woven its weary And by the meadow trenches blow the faint sweet cuckoo flowers. And the wild marsh marigold shines like fire in swamps and hollows gray, And I'm to be Queen of the May, mother, I'm to be Queen of the May." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Be sure to read the poem in its entirety and have some one in the class give the gist of it. 2. Into how many parts is the poem divided, and to what is each part devoted? 3. What is a village green? If you do not know, inquire of some person who has lived in England. 4. Point out a line in paragraph three that indicates that Tennyson understood the custom of gathering flowers and branches to put on the gates and doors. 5. Discuss Tennyson's reference to the world of spirits. Is it in accord with the Latter-day Saints point of view? Give an illustration with which you are acquainted of one who has departed this life coming back and visiting relatives or friends. 6. Select some passages in the poem that describes nature in a way that is attractive to you. 7. Select some words and some lines that you think are particularly musical. 8. What change is there in the feeling of the first and last division of the "Queen of the May"? 9. Describe any celebration of May day that you may have witnessed, and tell if it embodied any of the features discussed in this lesson, and what those features are. 10. From William Watson we quote the following tribute to May: "What is so sweet and dear As a prosperous morn in May, The confident prime of the day, GUIDE LESSONS 239 And the dauntless youth of the year, When nothing that asks for bliss, Asking aught is denied, And half the world a bridegroom is, And half the world a bride?" 11. Some member of the class may know of other English poets who have paid tribute to May;  if they do, let the class have the benefit of their knowledge, if not, let the quotation from Watson suffice to show that Tennyson is not alone among English poets in his admiration for May. LESSON . Book of Mormon— Bible Testimony Third Week in May. (Optional.) SUBJECT: Isaiah's Prophecy and the Book of Mormon (continued.) TEXT: Isaiah 29:15-24;  Matt. 8:1-4;  Matt. 9:27-30;  17:1-9;  Mark 8:22-25;  Moroni 10:14. Continuing with an analysis of Isaiah's prophecy respecting a "Book" that was to come forth, and continuing with the outline commenced in the preceding lesson, we learn that he: F. — Foreshadows an attack upon the Book by the enemies of righteousness. (a) — Sees the nature of the plans of those who seek to destroy the divinity of the Book (v. 15.) (b) — Sees to what extremity the enemies of the Book would go in order to destroy its usefulness (v. 10.) (c) — Sees the language of the Book assailed. (d) — Anticipates the Spaulding myth that should "turn aside the just for a thing of naught." (v. 21.) At this point we might ask the question, does the prophet have those in mind, who would reject the Book because of the imperfections of its language? Does he see the insidious work of Hulbert and Howe and their kind in "turning of things upside down" in order to make the "work say of him who made it— He made me not?" Does he see these men exerting every energy, seeking "deep to hide their counsels from the Lord," so that they may fasten the Spaulding manuscript upon the Book as its inspiration? Surely such 
 a colossal conspiracy — so far reaching in its pernicious effects — was of sufficient importance to entitle it to prophetic utterance in the form of a warning as voiced by Isaiah! There is no gain-saying the fact that a more stupendous fraud, a more ingenious snare layed for "him that reproveth in the gate," could not have been conceived and set on foot than this negative suggestion;  namely, that the Book of Mormon is nothing more nor less than the Spaulding idea elaborated upon. It was a master-stroke of the enemy of truth. It is no exaggeration to say that hundreds of thousands have been prejudiced against the Book by this negation, to such an extent they would not even curiously examine it. The tragedy of the whole affair is, these people can never become the beneficiaries of its promise;  namely, "That if ye would ask God the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true;  and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart;  with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you by the power of the Holy Ghost." (Moroni 10:4.) This negative suggestion is not a new thing. It has been one of Satan's most potent weapons to combat truth since the beginning of time. The power of its baneful influence upon the human mind was thoroughly understood by Jesus, who, in many instances during his ministry, cautioned those who had received extraordinary blessings at his hands, to go their way and tell no man. (See Matt. 8:1-4;  17:1-9;  9:27-30;  Mark 8:22-26.) Twenty years ago, when the writer was in the office at mission headquarters in Chattanooga, Tenn., President Ben E. Rich gave him a residence address, a Book of Mormon, and requested him to board a certain street car and present himself at the house of the given address. Upon receiving this strange mission, the elder felt something akin to what Phillip of old must have experienced when an angel suddenly appeared to him at Samaria and said: "Arise, and go toward the south, into the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza;  the same is desert." Without further instruction, the elder presented himself at the designated place and without salutation or ceremony, was ushered into a room where sat three Jewish rabbis. After a conversation lasting about two hours, in which the Book of Mormon was freely discussed, the truth dawned upon the elder that these three learned Jews desired to possess an authentic copy of the Book for purposes of study, and to compare it with the Hebrew scriptures, but that they also wanted to come into possession of it secretly. This view of the matter was strengthened upon GUIDE LESSONS 241 the leave taking of the elder, for he was importuned to say nothing of the circumstance. The Samuel Spaulding story has done its work well all these years, in spite of the fact that the Book of Mormon was published years before the Spaulding myth was discovered and the conspiracy published. Under the direction of one Philaster Hulbert, who had twice been a member of the Church and who had twice been cut off from its membership for bad conduct, a few sympathizers associated themselves together in Ohio, in the year 1833, and with the Book of Mormon before them and the spirit of vengeance and hatred in their hearts, got up some affidavits as to a story which it was surmised had been written before by Samuel Spaulding. a broken down clergyman of that place. About this time, these conspirators located an able confederate in the person of one E. D. Howe, of Painsville, Ohio, who, at this particular time, was much wrought up and disturbed in his feelings because his wife and sister had become members of the much hated Church at Kirtland. Between Hulbert and Howe, and assisted by their little coterie of malcontents, they published their malicious story between the years 1834 and 1841, years after the publication of the Book of Mormon and with that Book before them from which to make their garbled statements. One can readily understand how it would be possible for Joseph Smith and Martin Harris, by conniving, to cause the literal fulfilment of that part of the prophecy which pertains to the "words" of the Book being delivered to one who was learned, and then the "Book" itself delivered to the unlearned, provided they were aware of the existence of the prophecy, which is by no means probable;  but no one will admit for a moment that they, by any manner of scheming, could bring about the literal fulfilment of the balance of the prophecy as considered in the foregoing. With reference to Martin Harris' visit to Prof. Anthon, there is an interesting bit of evidence in favor of the Book that must not be overlooked. It will be remembered that Harris carried with him Joseph Smith's translation of a few original characters of the plates. Upon the verdict of the learned doctor would depend largely whether or not Harris would assist in financing the publication of the Book, a proceeding which would require him to mortgage his farm. I, for one, do not feel to censure him in this matter, for it would only be human nature to reinforce a growing faith by such corroborative evidence. The destroying of the Anthon certificate dispelled every doubt in the mind of the young farmer as to the Book's divine authenticity, for he went forth- 
 with and procured the necessary means to assist in putting the work before the public. Students will get clearer concepts of the truths in this lesson if they will direct their activities along the lines pointed out by the following: QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Name the one thing that is common to the New Testament references in the text. 2. Give an illustration from your experiences showing the insidious effects of negative suggestions. 3. There is much truth in the proposition — "The first reward of truth is persecution." What are your conclusions when it is applied to the coming forth of the Book of Mormon? 4. Can you call to mind any other great event, other than the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, which so accurately fits the conditions set out by Isaiah's prophecy? 5. What were the selfish reasons that urged Hulbert and Howe and their confederates to launch their conspiracy against the Book of Mormons? 6. Read the history of the Spaulding story in "The Myth of the Manuscript Found." If you do not happen to have it, it can be procured for a few cents from the Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City. LESSON IV. (Required) Social Service Fourth Week in May HEALTH (Feeding School Children.) 1. — Appetite As An Indicator of Body Needs. Doubtless the normal function of the appetite is to indicate what the body needs by way of food, both as to quantity and kind. If a child were fed wisely from the beginning the appetite would, no doubt, be trained to function normally, but unfortunately many children are allowed to form unwarranted dislikes for really wholesome foods. It is not unusual to hear a mother say, "I don't believe in making my children eat foods they don't like." Anyone could sympathize with this view point, provided, that the average child's likes