Pe Women Legislators Annie (Wells Cannon The Utah State Legislature of 1927 has four women representatives in the lower house. Two of these are serving their first term, while the other two have the experience of the previous session to their credit. Since statehood in 1896 there have always been women in the Utah legislature; and though the representation has perhaps not been as large as the women of the state have deserved, or thought they were entitled to, the fact is something to be proud of, for the records disclose their work has been conscientious, efficient and noteworthy. Naturally they have labored largely along educational and welfare lines; at the same time they have demonstrated a knowledge of, and interest in, all matters pertaining to the upbuilding and progress of the state. LAURA WOODLAND TANNER There are few women more devoted to unselfish service than Mrs. Tanner. As teacher, wife, mother and social worker she has given freely of her time and talents to the home, the school and the community. Her parents and grandparents were Utah pioneers, and her girlhood home was in Brigham City. She early entered the Brigham Young College at Logan, and was the only woman student in the first graduating class of that institution, after which she taught school for a short period in Cache county. In 1890 she was married to Henry jS. Tanner, and spent some time with him in the California mission, later accompanying him to Ann Arbor, Michigan, where he studied law. In the enjoyment of the cultural atmosphere of that great university she had a rich experience, and her home became the rendezvous for Utah students and their friends. Her friendly care and gentle solicitude for the comfort and welfare of these young people as well as for the missionaries of the locality were proverbial and unceasing. ~ At home Mrs. Tanner has been an active worker in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, responding willingly to every call made upon her and having served as teacher or officer in the Sunday School, Religion Class, Young Ladies' Mutual' Improvement Association, and Relief Society. She is also much - interested in genealogical work. She has been chairman of many important committees in the fields of civic and educational welfare. For four years she was 
 vice president, and for three years president of the Parent Teachers' Association of Utah. As chairman of the Recreation committee she worked for the closing of streets near which there were insufficient school playgrounds, during the recess and noon hours. She was a leader in the survey among school patrons as to what they most desired their children taught, the result of which was the present extensive instruction in manual training and home economics. She was chairman of the committee on adult health education under the Home and School League, also chairman of the Child Welfare Committee, which provided for the weighing and measuring of 13,639 pre- -school children of Salt Lake City in connection with a survey made by the United States government. She has served as a member of the Civic Center organization and the Free Clinic and Dispensary. At present she is vice president of the Utah Congress of Parents and Teachers; vice president of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, having in charge the collecting of Western history for that. Organization; chairman of legislation for the National Federation of Republican Women, having assisted materially im preparing a pamphlet on the fundamentals of taxation in Utah.. > During the World War she engaged in helpful service under the Red Cross and Council of Defense and had one son in the service. WOMEN LEGISLATORS 115 She is the mother of ten children, eight of whom are living, and notwithstanding her manifold public activities she continues to place home and motherhood above all, else., In the present legislature she is chairman of the Industrial School and School for the Deaf and Blind; is a member of the committees on Corporations, Buildings and Public Grounds, and Public Health. MRS. MILLIE PINNEY LOWE Mrs. Lowe is a daughter of the state of Utah. She is of pioneer parentage. Her father, William Pinney, was one of the early architects of the state, and for fifteen years was superintendent of public school construction. She was born in Salt Lake City, and educated in the public schools and University of Utah, from which institution she was graduated. For many years Mrs. Lowe has been a teacher in the public schools, an experience which has given her a fine understanding of human nature, and doubtless prepared a way for that broader training which led to the responsible position of state legislator. In the present legislature she is chairman of the Public Health committee, and is a member of the committee on Education, University and Utah Agricultural College, and Resolutions and 
 Memorials. She is a member of the Wasatch Literary Club, the Elks Ladies' Club, the second largest federated club in the state, the Woman's National Republican Federation, and the Parent Teachers' Association, in all of which she has held responsible positions of office. She was one of the first presidents of the Parent Teachers' Association, and has always been devoted to the educational interests of the state. She is at present secretary of the State Federation of Women's Clubs, and is very helpful to that organization in many ways. She is considered one of the best parliamentarians among the women of the state, and had the unanimous support of the Federation for the nomination as legislator, knowing, as they did, her very splendid qualifications and thoroughness in everything she undertakes. Mrs. Lowe claims she has no pet ideas or hobbies, but is anxious to give consideration to any measure that would tend to help women and children. She believes there should be more intelligent training for motherhood, and that more attention should be given to health problems. She is vitally concerned, and cannot understand why people are so indifferent to the calamity of disease. She considers one of the greatest evils and one that is so subtle that it is hard to meet, is that evil which prompts young women to avoid motherhood. To her mind there is no joy like the joy of family life, with that, she says, one always has something to live for, and to her mind the greatest burden of life is "living without having something to live for." Mrs. Lowe says she is most bitterly opposed to the cigarette girl and all her ways, and feels that the prominent women of influence should take steps to show the girls how much better it would be to try to raise the standard of the men instead of stooping to their level. Mrs. Lowe is the wife of Arthur J. Lowe, Jr. She has had four children, but lost one in babyhood after a brief illness. Her oldest daughter is a University graduate and a teacher in the public schools. While she has quite pronounced opinions, she has a charming manner and the poise and clearness of mind necessary for a legislator. MRS. ACHSA E. PAXMAN Mrs. Paxman of, Utah county has proved herself a most capable and efficient law-maker. She was a member of the legislature of 1925, and received many marks of favor and attention. Her quiet dignity and clear comprehension of matters presented, and her concise and logical way of argument, were remarked upon by her colleagues, and her re-election to the 1927 session is but a just recognition of earnest and satisfying work. The Magazine has previously given a short sketch of Mrs. Paxman, but since that time she has added somewhat to her laurels by engaging in other important activities. Under her presidency the Provo Woman's. WOMEN LEGISLATORS 117 Republican Club made a rather aggressive campaign, and with an increased reembership put over some very fine educational work along Americanization and political science lines. As a member of the stake presidency of the Relief Society, she is kept very busy in welfare work, and those best acquainted with the many duties of that office can easily appreciate the fact of the constant calls that would be made upon her time. With her experience as a wife and mother, and her natural love for doing good, the people of the state may feel quite assured of her wisdom in all matters. In the present legislature she is chairman of the State Mental Hospital committee, and is a member of the committees on Public Health, Education, and the University and Agricultural College. She is the wife of W. Monroe Paxman of Provo, and the mother of five children. She is a graduate of the Brigham Young University, also the State University, and is an accomplished elocutionist. She is easy to approach and gracious in manner; holds firm to her convictions on all moral issues and desires to be helpful to her friends whenever possible. MRS. JULIA KENDRICKS SMART Mrs. Smart, interested chiefly in home life, found herself in 1924 in politics and a candidate for election to the state house of representatives, hers having been the unusual experience of political honors thrust upon her. That her work in the session of 1925, at which time a sketch of her appeared in this Magazine, was eminently satisfactory, is evident, for without opposition she 
 received the nomination and vote of her constituency for reelection. She is alert and has a pleasing personality, with real business acumen, having had considerable experience in her early married life, assisting her husband with his extensive farm and live-stock interests. She is a descendant of Utah pioneers, and of early American ancestry. She was born in Thatcher, Idaho. Her parents, the late Joseph and Margaret Petty Kendricks, moved to Logan when she was six years old, and there, in the grammar schools and Brigham Young College, she received her education. In 1908 she was married to Claud Loyd Smart, and ten years later, in company with her husband, spent five years in the Eastern States mission. Her missionary work was mostly in New York City, where she gained a rich experience. She is an active worker in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, a member of the Daughters of the "Mormon" Battalion, and is interested in civic and welfare work. In the present legislature she is serving on the following committees: Education, University and Agricultural College, and State Mental Hospital. Her home is in Salt Lake City. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS  THE GENERAL BOAR RS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - + -:: - President Wee. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - _ General Secretary and Treasurer S A. Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards a sormrire ea Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Kosannah C. Irvine Miss Sarah M. McLelland — Joli ge ne el ae geld Reynolds 6 i 1 '3. Amy ipple Evans rs. Nettie D. Bradfor Mee Cee ta OMES Bie Re et, Mis, Bie Be Ape Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -:: - -::: Crarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - - - Avice Louisz ReyNnoxps Assistant Manager - - - - - - - Aux Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine  
Vol. XIV MARCH, 1927 No. 3
EDITORIAL
Did the