RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in May)
SOCIAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
The past discussions have indicated that the development of an individual is affected by his physical condition, by the degree of his mentality, and by his emotional experiences. This lesson and subsequent ones will deal with yet another set of factors that control the development and behavior of an individual. A child may be perfectly well physically, may have normal intelligence, and have no serious emotional problems, and yet be doomed to failure and unhappiness. The barriers that keep him from growth and expression are not to be found within his personality, but in the environment in which he finds himself placed.
The problems, created by the environment, may prove so serious that his development may be frustrated and affect his physical and mental wellbeing, and his emotional stability. The environment must be considered the world outside the individual, including his family, his home, his neighborhood, his city, his nation and the universe. Every person is a part of these various groups, and his life is affected by the nature of his contact with the social world.
The child's first social contacts are in his own home. If his home presents problems of poverty, ignorance, alcoholism, domestic infelicity, desertion, and divorce, his development and his attitudes will be affected by this environment. His schooling may be limited, he may be forced to enter industry early, he may run away from home, or develop hates and fears because of the unpleasant home life.
A neighborhood also colors the life of an individual. A child who plays in his own orderly yard, or in a supervised playground, with other agreeable, pleasant children, has a different set of experiences from one who has only a dirty, crowded street in which to spend his leisure. Deprived of normal play, the children spend time on the streets, hearing and admiring the neighborhood loafers and gangsters. An unsavory neighborhood may be the beginning of unwholesome habits and attitudes.
The civic life of a city and state is also an important part of a child's environment. Such matters as control of disease, school attendance, child labor, community recreation, supervision of public amusements, are city and state responsibilities. Failure of civic bodies to appropriate necessary funds for important educational and welfare programs results in lowered standards of health, education, economic independence, character and citizenship of the community.
The politics and policies of a nation are also part of an individual's social world. The industrial condition, the feeling between capital and labor, the condition of war or peace are all factors affecting numbers of individuals.
The universe including all physical phenomena, and man's struggle with nature and with other races of men, are also external forces that affect individuals. In man's struggle to protect himself and his tribe from enemies and to dominate nature, he has developed systems that give him strength. Civic bodies, industry, militarism, penal systems, etc., are parts of the machinery developed by man to give him power. From these institutions certain traditions and customs have developed, which are as much a part of man's environment as the concrete world. The traditions and beliefs of a group, known as its mores may be the cause of individual unhappiness, rebellion, and social ostracism.
With environment and civilization, as complex as it is in these times, it is apparent that many conflicts must occur between man and his social world. In some cases he can overcome the limitations set by his environment. In other cases he can learn to adjust to his sphere in life, and still find opportunity for expression and happiness. But in many instances he is helpless and defeated by the external world, and the only solution to his problem would be a changed environment.
In the social problems of childhood that are presented in the text, the maladjustments are not the inherent weaknesses of the child, but are the effects of social ills and conditions of which he is a victim. Because the environment includes not only the individual home, but all the other social forces that the individual meets in life, it is obvious that social problems are not confined in any one economic group. Social problems are not found only among persons of limited income, but are found in all classes of society. The rich child may be the victim of a broken home, of an alcoholic father, or of conditions that promote crime, or of preventable disease. He, too, may suffer if he opposes systems of government or is a pacifist during times of war.
It is true, however, that social problems are more acute and more difficult to modify when accompanied by poverty. A child of a broken home of rich parents may be deprived of a normal home life, but he is perhaps sent to a pleasant boarding school. The child of a broken home of poor parents may have his education ended early, and will enter industry prematurely. If the rich and poor boy both have conflicts with school or the law, the rich one may be protected by influence, and the poor boy may be sent to a reformatory. Poverty and ignorance are not the only social problems, but their existence makes the treatment of other problems more difficult.
As many of the social problems defy individual treatment, the hope for improvement must be a modified environment. How can a family combat poverty and its train of other evils?poor living quarters, ill-health, discouragement resulting in delinquency?if there is a serious unemployment condition in the community, or if the man's job does not pay a living wage? The solution to unemployment situations, to insufficient wages, to undesirable living conditions, and other such problems that affect whole groups of persons, must be treated by larger preventive measures. Social research is being directed into the causes of poverty, ignorance and preventable disease, and through group effort a better general social environment may be evolved. Education and cultivation of more tolerant attitudes may in time remove many of the social conflicts that cause unhappiness. Freedom of expression, on subjects of group custom, of government, of capital and labor conflicts, of militarism, of pacifism, should be the privilege of every individual. Children come into serious conflict with their elders, and individuals with the community, because of differences of opinion. Free expression and serious search for truth may do much to improve, not only the intellectual and spiritual world, but the concrete, external world where poverty, disease, exploitation, and war still victimize great numbers.
Reference?Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile?Social Problems, Introduction, pages 231-237.
Questions and Problems
What is meant by environment?
What social problems in the home may have undesirable effects on a child?
How can a neighborhood influence an individual?
What responsibilities do the city and state have for a wholesome environment?
How do customs and traditions and beliefs influence a person?
What social problems affect both rich and poor?
Why is it impossible for the individual to overcome such problems as unemployment and poverty?
What improvements are needed in the environment of your community?

— FOR YOUR GARDEN Fresh, crisp Vegetables direct from back yard Garden bath for health and economy. Then those marvelous flowers plucked from the beds of those beautiful flowering plants. You can enjoy them all at a trifling cost for Seeds, Bulbs, etc., and a little enjoyable work. OUR BIG FREE SEED AND NURSERY BOOK IS A DEPENDABLE AND NECESSARY GUIDE Write For It Today Porter -Walton Company SEED AND NURSERY SPECIALISTS SALT LAKE (7 F 4) WE DON'T CARE Who tells you that radioactive water is not beneficial to the human system, so we are going to make this very emphatic statement right here, that any onc making that statement is doing so through IGNORANCE or KNOWINGLY TELLING YOU AN UNTRUTH. U. S. Government recognizes its great value, as do also many of the greatest Medical Doctors in this country and Europe. Thousands of people in Utah and Idaho and millions throughout the world are testifying to the wonderful benefits they have received. The time is coming when every one will be drinking radioactive water for it is nature's greatest gift to man. START ON THE ROAD TO HEALTH NOW. GET A LIFETIME RADIUM WATER JAR AND GET WELL AND STAY WELL. CALL OR WRITE US FOR A FREE BOOKLET. Mandis Sales Company 
 MAIN ST. WAS. 1477 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SS Ee ca ee 1 00 ow Na ay ay (Oe VP RBIIEING WW ONV EARNER ONL WW? [foleprot fasiery Vanity Hosiery Shop 22 EAST BROADWAY \ 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear letae Iki? Oo GABIBG OOO 0000000Ca000C0$1.95 Box of Three Pairs..............$5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Penmeeairnsee.-.. Caneee$1.50 Box of Three Pairs............0--$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Ye IEW Oo CEI OO 000000000000$1.50 Box of Three Pairs............6.-$4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, Chiffon. All Colors Per Pair.........+6Wie... Eee- $1.00 Box of Three Pairs.......--ececee$2.85 a_—— Q] A 33 pees ii sae $7,500 Travel and Pedestrian Ac: cident ' Policy, one year one FLIRTING WITH DANGER Why is there so much talk of "Safety First" if it be not true that dangers multiply with each passing year? We offer to old and new subscribers this unusual protection. For your own protection and the protection of your happen every day. Family Insure today. Dollar. Accidents Che Deseret News SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH fWhen Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Gs a PORTABLE NEW ry FOLDING ELECTRIC IRONER Made by the Manufacturers of the Famous Apex Suction Cleaner With all the convenience fe