Just a Looker-on A CONFESSION STORY By A Student of the University of Utah, An Only Child
Mother gave a last perk to my pink hair ribbon, and sent me off to the party. My feet lagged, however, as I walked along the street. Mary, who was nine years old today, just two months older than myself, had sent me one of the invitations to her birthday party. Ahead of me, two other little guests were skipping and running from pure happiness. I, who should have been doing the same, felt only an intense desire to run back home. However, with children. Games were being played, and refreshments being served, when Mary's father entered the house. He was a brisk, jolly man, and was fond of children. Coming into the front room, he wound up the victrola, put on a dance record, and commenced dancing with the little girls in turn. Following his example the children paired off, to attempt the dance steps, until I was left alone. I seemed to be the only one who felt awkward and shy, and
From the front room out onto the porch, and then back again I wandered, unhappy and alone. Finally, Mary's mother noticed that I was not enjoying myself, so she immediately sent the young hostess over to talk to me. When Mary reached my side she asked me to dance with her, but I was so miserable and self-conscious by this time, that I could only mumble a refusal. Naturally, I was not asked to join in the fun again, and very shortly I left for home. As I stumbled down the steps, my heart was filled with a sick, lonely ache. How I envied those other little girls, who knew how to dance and play. And more fervently than little picture. For, while I could sit very quietly, read noiselessly, and generally efface myself, still I had never learned how to run
phases of school life I was again at a disadvantage. The picture comes back to me now of the lonely little girl that I was, sitting there among my schoolmates, Many of the children had banded themselves together in a club. I also should have liked to join, but I was never invited. In this society they devised an intricate sign
JUST A LOOKER-ON 137
language, that was worked by means of the fingers. I would watch them intently, and long to join in the fun, but somehow I never did. My manner was always so quiet and unobtrusive, that no doubt people forgot that I was there. Gradually this reserved and dignified way of mine grew upon me, until more and more I found myself relegated to the background.
Those school days were full of trying moments for me. I remember the spring recesses especially, when all of the little girls would bring out their skates, and jumping-ropes. Of the former I was terrified, and of the latter I knew scarcely more. So when the morning recess bell would ring, and we would hurry out to the playground, the other girls would go to their games, and I would be left standing aimless and alone. Just for the pleasure of being included in one of these groups, I would stand and turn a rope all recess time; never thinking of taking my own turn at jumping. And when occasionally some generous little girl would invite me to jump, I would be so timid and afraid of failing, that I would never take the chance.
Then when the noon bells began to ring, I would hurry home for lunch. It meant walking fast both ways, and necessitated my practically bolting my meal; but even this seemed preferable to remaining at school. Two or three times, I had taken my lunch with me, and had eaten it in one of the empty rooms. But the eating of my lunch took only a small portion of the hour at noon. Then there was the rest of the time to dispose of. And so, because I had no one to walk arm in arm with around the playground, and murmur childish confidences to, this noon hour I had always spent in hurrying home to lunch.
Then there were the afternoon dancing lessons that had to be gone through with. These periods came twice a week, and no matter how I longed to be taken conveniently ill just before them, they usually had to be faced. On these afternoons we would select our partners, and then would be instructed in simple folk dances. How awkward I would be! And simply through self-consciousness and nervousness I would horribly bungle the steps. Helen, the class beauty, whose long curls were the envy of all the other little girls, was always the first to be chosen. I was always among the last. Then one day our teacher reversed the natural order of things, and told the girls to invite the boys to dance. I asked Manual, who was one of the most popular boys in the room. How the others did laugh! Even the teacher could not repress a smile. Manual, himself, groaned and sighed and wriggled away. That day it was hard to keep the tears back, but I managed to do so, and simply became quieter and more reserved than ever. But, under that dignified exterior a little girl's heart was being crushed and smothered.
My parents did not realize that I needed help. Indeed they.


had given me a good home, wholesome food, clothes, and books, and a certain amount of grown-up love. But what they did not provide, and what I needed and wanted most, were young friends, parties, and happiness. And this is all typified in the story of our valentine box at school.. It was February fourteenth, and the students in our room always exchanged valentines. Then on the way home, we would count the number we had been sent, to see who had received the most. I intended to send a number of valentines; but my heart sank at the thought of the pitiful few that I would receive. If could see the group of girls walking home, counting their valentines and comparing them with my small number. So, in desperation I purchased five or six more than I had needed, wrote my own name on their backs, and sent them to myself. It was deceitful, but it was the only way I could face my classmates.
Of course, I am older now, and such memories no doubt seem less important. Yet those childhood days were really the foundation of my later life. For I am still shy and backward. I am still aloof and reserved. And while I long and always shall long for friends, and to be included in the midst of good times, still I am only a looker-on.