Grandmother Margaret's Slippers Evelyn Elder
Let someone mention the word grandmother, and what picture do you immediately visualize? A dear, hesitating old lady in spectacles and shawl; or a dignified, precise old lady in stiff, immaculate silk gown; or still a pious, church-going old lady, with hymn-books and Bibles piled ten deep about her. Any of these images might readily occur, but rarely would one conjure up a frivolous old lady, with dancing eyes and a light heart. Yet, thank heaven, that is just what Grandmother Margaret always was, frivolous.
From her gleaming, black curls to her small white party pumps, Grandmother Margaret fairly sparkled. And while the ringlets are remembered now only through the medium of an old-fashioned photographer's skill, the white slippers are a different matter. With what reverence of fingers and fluttering of breath, they were drawn forth from the old trunk. For indeed, such little snatches had been left of Grandmother. Her pictured face with its soft masses of dark locks smiled gayly down on us from the living-room wall. Two little pearl ear-drops lay demurely in a faded old satin box. A slim-fashioned, rustling, black-silk jacket was packed securely away among other precious keep-sakes. A shimmering ruby ring lay sparkling coyly in expectation of a future dark-haired girlish wearer. And then to come so unexpectedly upon the dainty, old-fashioned pumps. To draw them forth from the cool, sweet-smelling trunk. To pull the rustling tissue paper carefully away, and to set them out on the soft, deep-toned rug. There they stood, two adorably gay, impudent, white party slippers, faintly yellowed with age.
Now old, half-forgotten memories of stories told by Grandmother Margaret's own lips began to steal back slowly, of that joyous evening, long ago, when a proud and happy girl had danced a brisk quadrille with Brigham Young. How Grandmother's back would straighten and her small head proudly lift itself when she would relate that story. While the little slippers, pride and impudence in every line of them, might easily have glided through that memorable dance with the leader of the desert wastes, perhaps they, too, had tapped their laughing way into the heart of the tall pioneer lad, with the steady gray eyes, and the quiet voice. A new sparkle would come to Grandmother's eyes over the memory of those old meetings, of those far-away times, when the tall, serious boy with the strong back and the sensitive mouth, who, although he could brave trackless plains, and flooding streams, still fell victim to a shining--haired girl with a laughing way.
Dear little slippers. For they it was undoubtedly, that carried a trembling, white-frocked maid to a flower-banked altar,
GRANDMOTHER MARGARET'S SLIPPERS 135
by her side the same tall lad with worshipping eyes. And then when the last strains of faint music had ceased, and the last friends had departed, she had slipped down in a little white heap by the old trunk, and softly, lingeringly, had pushed the dainty things deep into a corner, where years later another dark-haired girl would find them, and slowly, hesitatingly, draw them forth again.
Such little frivolous, white party pumps, to give back so many memories of Grandmother Margaret. She whose tired, girlish feet trudged weary miles of sage-brush-covered plains. She whose fingers toiled unceasingly to build the new home in the strange land. But also, she whose eyes looked trustfully forward to a happy future, and above all, she whose heart danced through the years to the tune of fiddle and song.
I cherish those little white slippers.
Tomorrow
Another weary day is done, And as I watch the setting sun, I sit and think, what have I won, Or is this day another lost? If so, what then shall be the cost That I must pay? But soon 'twill be another day, And then will I begin anew, And strive with all my might to do, The will of God tomorrow.
The sun is rising, yes, I see; Ah, then tomorrow it must be! But no, it is today, and we Are waiting for tomorrow still? Yes, waiting with an earnest will Some kindly word to speak, or do Some noble deed, and yet, how few Have spoken all those words of cheer, And so the day is dark and drear, And we await tomorrow.
Oh! Why not speak that word today? Those we love may pass away Before tomorrow comes; our stay In this dreary world is short? A little while and we must part. Then today let's strive to do All that's noble, good and true. The glad tomorrow will not come, 'Twill be today that's just begun, For there is no tomorrow. ?Nina Eckart Kerrick.