Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Northern States Mission (Detroit Branch.) The Relief Society of the Detroit branch of the Northern States mission has done most excellent work during the past year. Besides the regular lessons, the Society has been active in the field of genealogical study and research. The mothers' committee carried out a most successful program. They first established a maternity chest, and later placed health bulletins in the hands of members: 1638 bulletins in sets of 26 were presented to 63 mothers. Prenatal letters, a series of 10, were also sent to 9 expectant mothers.
Australian Mission. On November 16, 1926, a Relief Society branch was organized at Sydney, Australia, under the direction of President Charles H. Hyde, and Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of Australian Relief Societies. There were eleven charter members, some of whom had belonged to the Relief Society in England and other conferences. All of the eleven members have subscribed for the Relief Society Magazine. The officers are: president, Mrs. Edith Woodford; counselors, Mrs. Edith Seaich and Mrs. Barbara Bain; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Elizabeth Brady.


Northcentral States Mission. Mrs. Harriet H. Allred, president of the mission Relief Societies, writes that all the branches have been visited during the year, and a conference held in each. The Winnipeg branch made quite a lovely selection of fancy work and quilts and held a profitable bazaar. They also gave a very successful Thanksgiving dinner, at which over a hundred were seated. This was followed by a musical evening. The Harlem, Montana, branch sends in favorable reports to mission headquarters. They have also held a successful bazaar and are holding meetings regularly. The branch at Minneapolis is very much alive and appreciates the lessons outlined. They hold very successful meetings. In connection with. He social service lessons they are taking a short course in child welfare, given by the University of Minnesota. They held a bazaar recently, at which they cleared $103. They have also raised funds from newspaper sales. From the last sale of this kind they realized over $9. Another sum of $10 was received from a Frigidaire company, which offered an award to a group of ladies, of any denomination, numbering over twenty, which would attend their demonstration. The St. Paul branch reports a good spirit prevailing. They have held a bazaar and also several basket parties.
Twin Falls Stake. The Relief Society officers conducted a convention at the opening of Fall work. All phases of Relief Society work were outlined in talks and demonstrations, each ward in the stake as well as the stake board contributing to the following program: Opening address, President Kate Kirkman; song, Buhl ward; talk on recreational work, Kimberly ward; rest exercise, Twin Falls ward; "How to Teach," stake board; talk on social service, Twin Falls ward; chorus, Twin Falls Relief Society; talk on enlistment work, stake board; Demonstration on teaching in the home, Murtaugh ward; teachers' work, stake board. Dainty refreshments were served, followed by folk dances and games. The Twin Falls ward Relief Society conducted a very successful bazaar and chicken dinner from which the sum of $250 was cleared. An additional $250 was taken from the treasury, making a total of $500, which was given to the new tabernacle fund. Emma Lucy Gates appeared recently in Twin Falls in a concert recital. She very generously offered her time and talents to the Relief Society for a second concert,. To which she presented all Relief Society members with free tickets. Other tickets were sold, from which $100 was cleared. This was also given to the tabernacle fund. The whole stake was grateful for the kind act of Utah's talented singer.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 141
Mount Ogden Stake.. In July a Home Nursing course of fifteen lessons was given at the Dee Hospital under the direction of the Red Cross. Two board members and six members from the various wards availed themselves of this opportunity and received their certificates for the work done. The course was sponsored by the four stakes in Weber county, each stake sending a member from each ward. On July 15, Mt. Ogden stake had a very successful field day at Lagoon, at which 225 were present. September 29, a luncheon was given by the board members to eighty: five people, including the stake presidency and their wives, past and present members of the Weber stake Relief Society board, all ward presidents, counselors, secretaries, organists and choristers of the stake Relief Societies. After luncheon a short program was given, and presentation of gifts to past first counselor Elizabeth D, Thomas, who resigned a few months ago, also to Emma B. Shreeve, stake class leader, who also resigned on account of ill health, in recognition of the splendid work done by them. On October 24, successful Relief Society conferences were held simultaneously in all of the wards of the stake, at which board members were present. The work and business meetings have been most successful in 1926. Besides other work, during the year thirty demonstrations have been held on such work as the making of pockets and bound button-holes, pressing and cleaning, flower making, millinery, salads, soups, sandwiches, cottage cheese, etc., etc., The meetings were held regularly throughout the Summer months in all the wards. Great interest has been created for the work meeting by the splendid efforts put forth by the officers and those called into this special work. The visiting teachers are also doing excellent work. Once each month one of the wards spends a day sewing at the Dee Hospital. During the year 1004 articles were made. St. George Stake. The St. George stake Relief Society held a visiting teachers' contest during the past year. Eleven of the wards attained 100% efficiency. Qne year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine was presented to the winning wards. The Enterprise ward has arranged to give the toxin anti-toxin treatment to the children of their ward. Over 200 applications for the children have been received. The Relief Society has now secured the cooperation of the Town Board in this movement. Kolob Stake (Springville First Ward.) Tuesday, November 30, 1926, a social afternoon was given in honor of the officers of the First ward Relief Society, by the class leaders. The program was as follows: Hymn, "Scatter Sunshine," by the congregation; prayer; violin solo; humorous 
 stunt, "The Dumb Waiter,' Theological department; reading, "How Columbus Discovered America" literary department; piano selections. The crowning event came from the social service department. It was the rendition of "Cornelia," as given in the November Magazine. Parowan Stake. In addition to the regular Relief Society work outlined in the Magazine the Parowan stake has had various special activities in all the wards, such as bazaars, fairs, special entertainments for the old folks, banquets, contest work, lectures by eminent speakers and numerous others. 'The wards now number eleven with the creation of the \Parowan East and Cedar Third, this year. The majority of the wards own their own halls, either bought or built outright, furnished and equipped by the efforts of the niembers. Block teaching has been aided materially by the earnest work of the supervisors, 100% being reported in some wards. Successful conferences have been held in all wards during 1926. Two or more visits have been made to each ward by the stake board members. Taylor Stake. Early in the year the Taylor stake held a teachers' convention. The stake officers with some little help outside, put on a little play, showing how the visiting teachers should conduct their visits in the home, and how the hostess should treat the visiting teachers. After this demonstration an ideal work and business meeting was given, the teachers separating from the rest of the meeting for their reports and topics, while the remaining members worked on articles for the bazaar, which they had up for exhibition. (Following this demonstration the little play, "Out of Work," was presented. Over 75% of the visiting teachers of the stake witnessed these demonstrations, which were put on in every community. On September 21, programs were held in honor of "Motherhood" in afl the wards, and prizes were offered to the following mothers: the oldest member of the Relief Society (there was one sister who had been a member 56 years, three who had been members 51, and one, 49, and one 48),; the one with the best attendance at Relief Society; the teacher with the best record for visits and for using the topic; the one with the largest family (one mother 'present who had had 16 children, four who had had 14); the one who had had triplets (two mothers present); the one with the largest number of sons (several with 10); the one with the largest number of daughters (some with 10); the one who had twins (27 mothers); the oldest mother; the youngest mother; the one with the youngest baby. Some of the wards gave prizes for the oldest and youngest great grandmother and the youngest grandmother. Very good programs were arranged for NOTES FROM THE FIELD 143 this. Day, on the subject of motherhood. In one of the wards the members came dressed in costumes, representing the styles from 1847 until 1926; in another ward 18 members were dressed to represent the first Relief Society, and the one representing Emma Smith gave a brief synopsis of the organization of the Relief Society. During 'the latter part of September and the first part of October, Sunday Relief Society ward conferences were held in each ward, and with musical numbers arranged for by the ward officers, the following topics were given: "What membership in the Relief Society means to the L. D. S. Woman," by a board member; "Accomplishments of the Relief Society, General and Stake, 1925," by board member; Report from the ward president; "What the Relief Society means to my Ward," by the bishop of the ward. On October 15, the stake board entertained the executive officers of the wards. 'One feature of the entertainment was the placing about the room of '15 little water-colored paintings representing writings taken up in the literary department, and the one getting the largest number correct, was given a nice painting for a prize. Most of those present got at least 50% correct, and some over 70%, which indicated that they had remembered their literary work very well. Games and refreshments were enjoyed. The following report card is sent out to each ward for a monthly report: Number of officers enrolled; Visiting teachers; Members; Average attendance, officers; Average attendance, visiting teachers; Average attendance, members; Number of visits of stake officers; Number of prayer meetings held; Number of meetings with bishop; Number of preparatory officers' meetings; Number of districts visited; Work and business day feature; Weekly music practice; Number: prepared with lesson; (careful reading considered prepared); Number endowed for; Report on scriptural reading. In some of the wards a comparative report of the present month with the preceding month is put on the board, so all members can see whether or not the Society is progressing. This report is proving very beneficial, especially in getting the members to read their lessons, and do their scriptural reading: Garfield Stake. At the beginning of the year 1926 Garfield stake Relief Society headquarters at Antimony, Utah, instituted what was termed an "efficiency contest." This contest had a two-fold purpose: first to have every home in the stake visited monthly by ward teachers, and secondly to increase the attendance at ward Relief Society meetings. Two prizes were offered, one for 100% teaching, which meant that every home in every district must be visited before the monthly report meeting, and one for the greatest increase in attendance of the active enrollment in the ward. At the end of June, when the contest closed, six of the eight wards 
 reported 100% teaching. In the other two wards the teaching was done, but one district in each ward failed to report until after report day. Boulder ward, an isolated district, so scattered that some of the women have to go five miles to meeting, won the attendance contest, having an average of 82%. The prizes given were six copies of Heart Throbs, and one to Boulder of the combined copy of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. For the summer months, July, August and September, the following program was carried out in the wards: The first and second Tuesdays were held as usual. Vor the third, or literature day, the ward Relief Societies staged the Booth Tarkington play Station Y Y Y Y, charged a very small Admission, and turned the proceeds over to the stake. The other meeting in July was an outdoor picnic for all married people. All wards reported a most excellent time. Literature day of August was taken up by a lesson on Gene Stratton-Porter, followed in the evening by her motion picture, "The Keeper of the Bees." The social service day of August was placed in charge of the community extension leader for instruction in salad and sandwich making. In September the lives of two former Relief Society General Presidents, Eliza R. Snow and Emmeline B. 'Wells, were discussed, and for social service work there was special instruction in plain sewing and pattern cutting. The teachers have been most willing and diligent workers. It is felt by the officers of this stake that much of the success achieved in Relief Society work this year is due to them. Each ward has held, as suggested by the stake, a teachers' preparation meeting the first Monday night of each month. In this meeting the teachers' topic and teachers' problems have been discussed. Two teachers' conventions were held in the stake in September, one on each side of the Escalante Mountain. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, of the General Buard, who was attending the group convention, and Elder Charles F.E. Rowan, president of the stake, attended the first convention. This convention included the two Escalante wards and Boulder. The other, held later at Junction, included Widtsoe, Marion, Kingston, Circleville and Junction. Elder Joseph Epson represented the stake presidency at this convention. Both meetings were exceptionally well attended by the teachers, the program outlined by the General Board was followed most successfully, and the teachers expressed themselves as having been very greatly benefited. Rigby Stake. A very splendid Relief Society teachers' conference-convention was held in the Rigby Stake tabernacle, September 24. Roll call showed all the stake board members present except two, and a large number of officers, teachers and members from each ward. There were also present members of the stake presidency, and NOTES FROM THE FIELD -145 high councilmen and bishops from several of the wards, together with representatives from Idaho Falls stake, Yellowstone and Teton stakes. In addition to excellent musical numbers the following topics were discussed: The Work and Business Meeting: The Value of the Teacher to the Association and the Community; The Use of the Teachers' Book; The Object and Time of the Teachers' Visit; Spirit and result of the Teachers' Visit. Mrs. Mayme Laird, president of the Relief Societies of the Idaho Falls stake, gave an interesting talk on Child Welfare and Maternity Work, and President Lucy P. Lloyd of the Yellowstone stake Relief Societies, and President Josiah Call of the Rigby stake, also addressed the convention. During the noon recess a delicious luncheon was served to 235 people. Curlew Stake. During the past year a Relief Society conference has been held in each of the ten wards which are widely scattered, the nearest being four miles, the other wards ranging from eighteen to forty-six miles. It requires much faith, patience and sacrifice to visit them all. These conferences have been favored with the presence of members of the stake presidency, ward bishopric, members of the stake Relief Society presidency and board members, all of which has been greatly appreciated. They have been among the most pleasant and profitable meetings of the year. In July a Relief Society teachers' convention was held, being well attended by presidents, teachers, and members of the various wards. One number of the program especially well given was the demonstrating of the teachers' topic, "Patriotism," by members of the board. It filled the teachers with a desire to carry messages of peace and love and loyalty into every home. In the early part of September a very successful. Health conference was held at Holbrook, Idaho, under the auspices of the Bureau of. Child Hygiene of the State of Idaho, assisted by members of the stake Relief Society. Many mothers and babies were examined by a lady doctor, assisted by several nurses. It was felt that much good will result from this clinic. Maternity bundles have been placed in every ward. Recently the stake Relief Society, assisted by ward presidents, entertained in honor of the Curlew stake presidency, high' counselors and bishops in the Holbrook Hall, with President Rebecca Cutler presiding. A splendid program was given, consisting of appropriate songs, readings and musical numbers. One outstanding feature of the program was "A Message of Appreciation," given by one of the board members, in which she expressed the feelings of the stake board regarding the splendid support and cooperation given to the board by the local workers and the priesthood. Following the program a delicious tray luncheon with an abundance of fruits and melons was served to all present.. Guide Lessons for May Theology and Testimony THE WOMEN OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION (Continued) LESSON I (First Week in May) MARTHA AND MARY OF BETHANY The third and fourth in line of great women are Martha and Mary. These two women came into prominence through being privileged to entertain the Savior. They are known as the sisters of Bethany. Bethany is a small village outside of Jerusalem, not far from the Mount of Olives. Whatever this village may have been in the time of the Savior, today it consists only of a few mud houses with fewer inhabitants. It is practically a deserted village. Both Mary and Martha appear to have been exceptional entertainers; one with a special interest in providing for the physical comfort of guests, and the other, gifted with that ability which supplies spiritual enjoyment. The home of these sisters seems to have been the frequent resting place of the Lord, during his ministry; and he was affectionately interested in the family consisting of Lazarus, whom he raised from the dead, and the two sisters. In fact the Bible expressly tells us that Jesus loved them. The hospitality of these sisters was not limited to the capacity of their own home, {for they were chief hostesses at a feast at the house of Simon the leper. This house might have been rented for the occasion. In any event, just why they were here is not made clear. Martha comes into historical prominence in her own home. When Jesus said what is recorded in Luke 10:38-42, the name of Martha became immortal. Her over-anxiety and worry brought from the Master a most concise address on values. Without detracting from the value and interest in physical things he pointed out the incompleteness of life without a major interest. Undoubtedly Mary as well as Martha was interested in the supper and might have served at the table, but her preference led her to a service more spiritual than temporal, and this choice of placing the spiritual before the temporal is what Jesus called "that good part; the one thing needful." It was not the special form GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 147 of entertainment given to the guest, so much as it was the giving of preference to the spiritual that Jesus emphasized. Mary came into everlasting prominence at the time of the feast given in honor of 'Jesus at the house of Simon the leper. Mary and Martha appear to be chief hostesses at a feast given in appreciation of the restoration of their brother. The people gathered at the house came with a variety of motives. Some were eager to hear any message of truth that might fall from the Savior's lips. Others were anxious to find some occasion for further condemning the Master, while yet others sought some grievance against Lazarus, for they feared the effect that his return from the dead might have upon the people. It was on this occasion that Mary took "an alabaster box of ointment of spikenard, very precious; and she brake the box and poured it on his head." and Jesus proclaimed her services as an anointing for his burial and prophetically declared the fame of her name to the end of time in these memorable words "Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken ~ of for a memorial of her." (Mark 14:9.) It is certainly no small fame to have one's name linked with that of the Savior '"'wheresoever this gospel shall be preached." No such promise was made to the woman who entered the house of Simon, the Pharisee one who was a sinner, took an alabaster box and "weeping began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment." (Luke 7:36-38.) The Lord recognized all that this woman did as prompted by the spirit of gratitude, and her compensation was the assurance from Him that her sins were forgiven. The chapter under the caption, "In the House of Simon the Leper" Jesus the Christ, by Talmage, page 510, will prove of interest to 'our readers. Questions and Problems 1. Prove by a comparison of the proceedings at the meal served at the home of Simon, the Pharisee, and the entertainment at the home of Simon, the leper, that Mary of Bethany was not the woman spoken of as a sinner. 2. Correlate the first commandment of the decalogue with the lesson on values given by the Savior to Martha. 3. Discuss the desirability of having Mary and Martha in one individual. 148 UE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY?CIVIC PRIDE Improving outside of houses, churches, school houses; repairing, painting, etc. Repair doors, screens, windows, fences, gates, porches, floors, foot-bridges, etc. A survey of your own premises may reveal many needs. (A school teacher recently called at a home where as a boy, he delivered milk. He was surprised to find the same horse-shoe nail holding the door knob, which as a boy he dreaded as he frequently hurt his hand upon the nail. The proper screw could have replaced the horse-shoe nail at the cost of one penny.) Renew exterior of buildings with suitable paints and kalsomines. (Paint protects wood, lengthens its life, and reduces fire hazard. It also beautifies the buildings. ) The following summary of work done by one community deserves special recognition. It shows strikingly the many lines of activity that entered into the campaign: Number of days of organized clean-up work 20. Number of people out to Work 436 Number of old buildings removed -...........11 Number of towns improving source of water supply............1.. Number of towns improving method of sewage disposal.............1. Number of public buildings painted............14 Number of public buildings removed.....17 Number of public buildings inspected for fire...... 6 Number of business buildings painted 16. Number of business buildings renovated 18. Number of business buildings inspected for fire...........3. Number of public grounds beautified 12 Number of private grounds beautified 109 14. Number of vacant lots cleaned Up........11 15. Number of new roads built ?4 16. Number of new bridges built 35  Number of new homes built.8. Number of homes improving source of water.........15. Number of homes improving sewage disposal 8. Number of homes painted 42. Number of fences painted 10.. Number of homes screened against flies?33. Number of loads of old manure removed....400 24. Number of loads of garbage hauled on clean- -up days...145. Number of new barns built...6   26. Number of old barns torn 7 27. Number of new lawns made ..16. Number of persons who planted trees and shrubs......58 29. Number who planted flower gardens....... 278 30. Number who cleaned up the front yards...568  31. Number who cleaned up back yards........490 32. Number of side walks built10 33. Number of new fences Built 17  34. Number of new gates Built 33 GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 149 LESSON III  Literature (Third 'Week in May) CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN Charlotte Perkins: Gilman is rightly regarded one of the foremost women of America at the present time. She was born July 3, 1860, in Hartford, Connecticut, and is now making her home in the state of her nativity. Mr. Gilman is her second husband. Her first marriage was to Mr. Stetson by whom she had one child, a daughter. She is well known among the groups of women who have made a struggle for larger freedom and a fuller life for women. Her name is found among those who led the fight for suffrage. Practically all the votes that have been taken, in recent years, in an effort to determine who are the ten or twelve outstanding women in America have contained her name. She is a philosopher, and does much of her thinking in what might be called philosophic terms. The Germans early discovered this trait in her writing, consequently she was a welcome guest in their midst. When she visited the International Council of Women, held in Berlin, they made very good use of her. She would address a group of people that entirely filled the hall, and as soon as they had gone, another group would take the place of the one gone. This was repeated four or five times each day. She is a natural reformer. She stopped a young man in one of our Utah towns who was riding a bicycle on the sidewalk and asked him why he did it when it was against the city ordinance. She noticed a natural embankment that was being destroyed and made unsightly through carelessness and lack of civic pride, and remarked, "If that unsightly bridge were removed the bank following the natural course of this stream could be made a spot of exceptional beauty." I am sorry that Mrs. Gilman has not been able to visit the place in recent years and observe that the old, tumbled-down bridge has been removed and that the embankment is now made beautiful with ornamental shrubbery. Mrs. Gilman is a thinker. She turns things over in her mind, asking the why and wherefore of it all. If there is not good and sufficient reason why old forms should be adhered to, then she is perfectly willing to discard them and put in their place new things. Her mind is exceedingly active, she is always analyzing and examining. There are very few women on the platform as brilliant and as clever as she. For years she has visited university centers, 
 and other places of culture, and delivered lectures. She is equal to any audience. She is one of the best examples I have ever known of a person whose prestige is born of a clear brain and a clever tongue. She is medium-sized and of a very slight figure, with dark, snapping eyes. While she is comely enough she is in no way a woman who would be styled beautiful, and yet there is that in the brilliance of her mind, and the extreme cleverness of her speech, that holds her audiences spellbound. She has also invaded the field of child welfare. Many years ago Mrs. Gilman pointed to the fact that homes are built for grown-ups and not for children. She told us that the steps of a house are made for the adults as are practically all the pieces of furniture that are to be found in the home. Today we are living in a period when educators are demanding that places be built and furnished to meet the little people's needs. Out of this theory, and another which is receiving great emphasis, which is that the early years are the years in the child's life that are of immense importance, many persons are becoming very prominent in educational circles. In the field of letters she is versatile. She once published a little magazine for which she did all the writing. The poetry, the story, the philosophic articles and the editorials were all her own. She comes by her literary gifts honestly, for she is of the Beecher family, counting among her relatives the great preacher, Henry Ward Beecher, and the novelist, Harriet Beecher Stowe. There are about. Twelve books to her credit, her best works being: Women and Economics (1898), and Human Work (1904). Her volume of verse, In This Our World (1898), to use the words of Untermeyer "hurls many a shaft of ironic wit." Her poem "A Conservative" is an attack on the type of person who stands in the way of progress. Mr. Untermeyer says that it is "a sub-acid satire not easily forgotten." A CONSERVATIVE The garden beds I wandered by One bright and cheerful morn, When I found a new-fledged butterfly, A-sitting on a thorn, A black and crimson butterfly All doleful and forlorn. I thought that life could have no sting To infant butterflies, So I gazed on this unhappy thing With wonder and surprise, While sadly with his waving wing He wiped his weeping eyes. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY Said I, 'What can the matter be? Why weepest thou so sore? With garden fair and sunlight free And flowers in goodly store,'? But he only turned away from me And burst into a roar. Cried he, ""My legs are thin and few Where once I had a swarm! Soft fuzzy fur?a joy to view? Once kept my body warm, Before these flapping wing-things grew, To hamper and deform!" At that outrageous bug I shot The fury of mine eye; Said I, in scorn all burning hot, In rage and anger high, "You ignominious idiot! Those wings are made to fly! 3x) "I do not want to fly," said he, "I only want to squirm!" And he drooped his wings dejectedly, But still his voice was firm: "I do not want to be a fly! I want to be a worm!" O yesterday of unknown lack, To-day of unknown bliss! I left my fool in red and black; The last I saw was this,? The creature madly climbing back Into his chrysalis. 151 A poem full of stimulating and suggestive thought is that entitled "If a Man May Not Eat Neither Can He Work." We include it: If A Man May Not Eat Neither Can HE Work How can he work? He never has been taught The free use of what faculties he had. Why should he work? Who ever yet has thought To give a love of working to the lad. How can he work? His life has felt the lack Of all that makes us work; the proud, the free, Each saying to the world, "I give you back Part of the glory you have given me" We 
 Why should he work? He has no honor high, Born of great trust and wealth and sense of power; Honor, that makes us yearn before we die To add our labor to the world's rich dower. How can he work? He has no inner strength Urging him on to action, no desire To strain and wrestle, to achieve at length, Burning in all his veins,?a hidden fire. Why should he work? There is no debt behind That man's nobility most longs to pay; No claim upon him,?only the one blind Brute instinct that his dinner lies that way. And that is not enough. Who may not eat Freely at life's full table all his youth, Can never work in power and joy complete, In fulness, and in honor, and in truth.
"His Own Labor" is a stimulating poem, particularly in view of recent discussion in Congress on the McNary-Haugen Bill.
His Own Labor
Let every man be given what he earns!
We cry, and call it justice. Let him have
The product of his labor?and no more!
Well, then, let us begin with life's first needs,
And give him of the earth what he can make;
As much of air and light as he can make,
As much of ocean, and sweet wind and rain,
And flowers, and grass, and fruit, as he can make.
But no, we answer this is mockery:
No man makes these things. But of human wealth
Let every man be given what he makes,
The product of his labor, and no more.
Ah, well! So to the farmer let us give
Corn, and still corn, and only corn at last.
So to the grazier, meat; the fisher, fish;
Cloth to the weaver; to the mason, walls;
And let the writer sit and read his books?
The product of his labor?and naught else!
But no, we answer! Still you laugh at us.
We mean not his own labor in that sense,
But his share in the work of other men.
As much of what they make as he can buy
In fair exchange for labor of his own.
So let it be. As much of life's rich fruit?
The product of the labor of the world?
As he can equal with his own two hands,
His own supply of energy and skill!
As much of Shakespeare, Homer, Socrates,
As much of Wagner, Beethoven and Bach,
As much of Franklin, Morse, and Edison,
As much of Watt, and Stephenson and Bell,
Of Euclid, Aristotle, Angelo,
Columbus, Raleigh, and George Washington,
Of all the learning of our patient years,
Of all the peace and smoothness we have won,
Of all the heaped up sciences and arts,
And luxuries that man has ever made,?
He is to have what his own toil can match!
Or, passing even this, giving no thought
To this our heritage, our vast bequest,
Condemn him to no more of human help
From living men than he can give to them!
Toil of the soldiers on the western plains,
Toil of the hardened sailors on the sea,
Toil of the sweating ploughman in the field,
The engine-driver, digger in the mine,
And weary weaver in the roaring mill.
Of all the hands and brains and hearts that toil
To fill the world with riches day by day,
Shall he have naught of this but what one man
Can give return for from his own supply?
Brother?There is no payment in the world!
We work and pour our labor at the feet
Of those who are around us and to come.
We live and take our living at the hands
Of those who are around us and have been.
No one is paid. No person can have more
Than he can hold. And none can do beyond
The power that's in him. To each child that's born
Belongs as much of all our human good
As he can take and use to make him strong.
And from each man, debtor to all the world,
Is due the fullest fruit of all his powers,
His whole life's labor, proudly rendered up,
Not as return?can moments pay an age?
But as the simple duty of a man.
Can he do less?receiving everything?
"Hardly A Pleasure" is a bit of contrast work that is characteristic of some of the things that Mrs. Gilman does:
Hardly A Pleasure
She had found it dull in her city;
So had they, in a different mob.
She traveled to look for amusement;
They traveled to look for a job.
She was loaded with fruit and candy,
And her section piled with flowers,
With magazines, novels, and papers
To shorten the weary hours.
Her friends came down in a body
With farewells merry and sweet,
And left her with laughter and kisses,
On the broad plush-cushioned seat.
She was bored before she started,
And the journey was dull and far.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the girl in the palace car.
Then they skulked out in the darkness
And crawled under the cars,
To ride on the trucks as best they might,
To hang by the chains and bars.
None came to see their starting,
And their friendliest look that day
Was that of a green young brakeman,
Who looked the other way.
They were hungry before they started,
With the hunger that turns to pain?
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure,"
Said the three men under the train.
She complained of the smoke and cinders,
She complained of the noise and heat,
She complained of the table service,
She complained of the things to eat.
She said it was so expensive,
In spite of one's utmost care;
That tipping the porters and waiters
Cost as much as a third-class fare.
That the seats were dirty and stuffy,
That the berths were worse by far.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the girl in the palace car.
They hung on in desperate silence,
For a word was a tell-tale shout;
Their foul hats low on their bloodshot eyes,
To keep the cinders out.
The dirt beat hard on their faces,
The noise beat hard on their ears,
And a moment's rest to a straining limb
Meant the worst of human fears.
They clutched and clung in the darkness
While the stiffness turned to pain.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure,"
Said the three men under the train.
She stepped airily out in the morning,
When the porter had brushed her awhile.
She gave him a silver dollar;
He gave her an ivory smile.
She complained to her friends that morning
Of a most distressing dream:
"I thought I heard in the darkness
A sort of a jolting scream!
"I thought I felt in the darkness
The great wheels joggle and swing;
Traveling's hardly a pleasure
When you dream such a horrible thing!"
They crept shuddering out in the morning,
Red spots with the coal's black stain.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the two men under the train.
Questions and Problems
1. What message does Mrs. Gilman put over in her poem "If A Man May Not Eat Neither Can He Work?" Do you think her philosophy sound in this poem? If so, why? If not, why?
2. Discuss the poem "His Own Labor," and see how many helpful thoughts you can bring into the discussion.
3. What purpose had Mrs. Gilman in writing "Hardly a Pleasure?"
4. Do you think persons who have many blessings are prone to complain at trifles? If so, what do you think of the ethics of such behavior?
5. Point to some lines in "A Conservative" that justify Mr. Untermeyer's observation concerning "sub-acid satire." ?Pleasure?" 156