[Column 1]
		A CHILD OF NATURE.
	[Read before the Parent’s class in the Academy 
at Provo, Nov. 7, 1900, by Mrs. E. B. Wells.]
	A child of nature! What a sublime 
theme for the poet or the painter, but, alas!
for me who am neither, and only a poor 
scribbler, it is indeed beyond my language 
to express in words or sentiment this mighty 
subject. But because I fain would try to do 
each task allotted to me, however hard, I’ll do
my best tonight, even tho’ I may fall very 
far short of my own ideal. 
	The new-born babe is the fairest, sweetest 
flower of Paradise, and when the mother 
clasps it to her breast it is the supreme 
moment of her existence. No other earthly 
joy can possibly compare with the ecstacy of 
motherhood. All pain, all suffering, how-
ever great, is forgotten in that new life of
hers—the gift of God, the symbol of His 
love for woman, say what you will. God 
so loved the world that He gave His only
begotten Son, but He gave His only
begotten Son, but He gave Him through 
the woman, Mary, the mother of Jesus! 
Holy Motherhood! greatest and best of all 
gifts to womankind! 
	We behold the child! Who is it? What 
is it? It is curiously and wonderfully 
made; it surpasses our understanding. There 
are no words to convey the idea of the mother-
love. It is God’s child still, and it is its 
mothers; the spirit of the Eternal animates 
it, and it is endowed from on high with 
understanding in embryo; it smiles, it cries,
it opens its eyes upon the new world into 
which it has come, and, perchance, it 
wonders why—we none of us know, not 
even the mother who has borne it, and who 
claims it by a sort of divine right. 
	Byron in his wonderful prayer said, 
“Without my own consent I came but with my 
	wildest wish I go,
For I would fainly be the same I was ere born to
	woe.”
	But Joseph Smith, the prophet of this 
dispensation, has told us that we consented 
to come, to leave the glorious mansions on 
high and take upon us mortality. 
	I would I could tell you how Joseph loved 
little children, and to me this trait in his 
character is another proof, and a strong one 
of the divinity of his mission. Jesus loved 
little children and he taught the people that 
unless they could become like unto a little 
child, they could in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven. 
	The babe may be born here or there, in a 
cottage or in a palace, or in the open air of 
heaven, or upon the great, wide ocean, the 
blood of the generations before it is in its 
veins, it is a part of the great human life,
but its destiny even to those around it is
unknown—for oft the little babe born and 
reared in childhood in the country of its 
forefathers, finds in its riper age a home far,
far from the land of its birth and childish
associations; and yet, methinks, almost al-
ways with something of its past clinging to 
it still, an inheritance not of lands or 
material possessions, but something innate 
that manifests itself in habits, tastes and 
qualities, a mysterious something difficult 
to analyze.

[Column 2]
	We may say the babe is the same whether 
born in sunny Italy or among the snow-
clad hills of Norway, or in any other clime
or any other country, and so it is apparent-
ly at its birth, but its growth and develop-
ment reveals to the acute observer phy-
sically and spiritually, or, if we may use 
the term, intellectually, in various phases al-
most intangible, yet unmistakable tokens of 
its birthplace and early environments, as 
well as its race and parentage
	I fear I diverge far from my subject, like
the preacher who takes a text for his dis-
course, yet wanders hither and thither and 
never touches it. However, one must in-
deed be narrow-minded if in so vast a field of 
beauty and of variety as that of a child of 
nature, one does not wander about some-
what at random, for there are no bounds to 
childhood's realm, no heights too lofty for 
its thought, no flights of fancy too ethereal
for its imagination. 
	It stretches out its arms at first to grasp
whatever it may seize upon; it tries its 
strength of limb in many ways; it begins to 
inquire first with its eyes; it asks for love,
for endearments, and when the baby lips 
can lisp but simple words how soon we find 
it longs for knowledge, of itself, the home,
the little things that surround its daily life.
The bird that sings or chirps at the window,
the flower that grows within or without the 
domicile or yard where it has strayed or 
been taken, the cat, the dog or other house-
hold pets, any and all the little living 
trifles that make up the sum of the daily 
life of the home.
	The love that is born in the child’s
nature, if cherished and fostered, is a mar-
velous gift, and ought never to be checked,
lest the natural tendency of its life become
artificial, or, we are apt to say, “soured.”
The child cannot have too much love, it is 
indeed possible it may have too much at-
tention and too much indulgence, but that 
is not true love. It is, however, my own be-
lief parents often control or govern too 
much (though neither of these are good 
terms to use in this connection.) They do 
not study child-life from the child’s stand-
point, but from their own older and more
matured views of life. I may be treading 
now on dangerous ground, but whatever 
my faults in dealing with children, I cer- 
tainly would never advise severity. It 
assuredly crowds out the beautiful in the
child’s life and makes the little one more or 
less unhappy, without producing the desired 
effect of willing submission to authority,
that is beyond its comprehension.
	Happily for the children of this genera-
tion, the rod has gone out of fashion; we 
have indeed fallen upon better times and 
the chances are all on the side of self-
development instead of self-abasement. If 
we do not go too far and get self-conceit in-
stead of a proper degree of modesty, if we 
can strike the happy medium in child-life,
then indeed we may begin to believe in the 
coming of a higher race, because the 
parents themselves will have learned how 
carefully to deal with the delicate nature of 
these little precious plants, given into their
<c>are fresh from the garden of the gods.


