[Column 1]
		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, March 2, 1901,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Oh Jesus,
the Giver.” Prayer by Maria W. Wilcox.
Singing, “O say what is truth.”
	Present on the stand were Sisters Zina D.
H. Young, B. W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
Sarah J. Cannon, Annie T. Hyde, Clara C.
Cannon, Maria Wilcox and Julia C. Howe.
	After some business reports were given,

[Column 2]
Sister Horne thanked the sisters for the
interest they had taken in her during her
sickness, acknowledged the hand of the
Lord in raising up friends to them during
the time they were quarantined and
thanked the Lord for His great goodness to
them. Said she felt like Job—the afflic-
tions she dreaded most had come to her.
She had been promised her life should be
lengthened out to perform the duties de-
volving upon her.
	President Zina D. H. Young said,
“Obedience is better than sacrifice.” She
was glad to be with the sisters. The restor-
ation of Sister Horne’s health was as the
restoring spirit. Felt very much in earnest
as to the work which would have to be ac-
complished. The Lord has opened up the
way for His people. If we are humble and
faithful and keep the faith of the Lord with
us, we will be blessed and preserved.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said we certainly
all rejoiced to have these dear mothers with
us today. Spoke of the words of Solomon,
that those who should look towards the
holy temple, (in that day) with prayerful
hearts, should receive a blessing. Felt that
we are a blest people and should be happy,
and not a sorrowful people. Thought we
had everything to be thankful for, and
should have faith and teach our children
faith. Spoke of the marvelous way in
which we obtained records for Temple
work. Believed that the Lord would open
up the way for all who desired to do
Temple work. Told the sisters of the con-
templated organization of a class in parlia-
mentary law by Mrs. Urquhart Lee. Read
what the Prophet Joseph Smith said with
regard to this in the first organization of the
Relief Society. Hoped the Relief Society
presidents would have a representative at-
tend this class. It was certainly necessary
for each society to be conducted in a busi-
ness way.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon said, “The 17th
of March will soon be here and the several
branches of the society will take pains to
have the meetings, and also collect the fund
towards the expenses of the General Soci-
ety.” Thought it was necessary to re-
member this great day. Made good and
encouraging remarks to the sisters on the
subjects of Temple work, belief in the Gos-
pel, faith in the Lord and in His com-
mandments to us. Sister Cannon also en-
dorsed the study of parliamentary law and
believed it would result in much good.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith encouraged
the sisters to attend this class. She would
join it herself and if it did not do her much
good, was sure it would help others. Knew
that the Prophet endorsed this in his day
and thought it was just as necessary at the
present time. Prayed that the Lord would
help us to keep in the faith, that we might
never go astray.
	Sister Sarah Jane Cannon said she wished
to join this class, and believed it would do
much good. What we learn in this life we
will not need to learn in the hereafter.
Was thankful to have Sister Horne here
with us. Said we should be careful to do
the little things of life, they will often re-
sult in more rea[-] [illegible line]
	Morning session closed by singing “The
time is far spent.” Benediction by
Clarissa S. Williams.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing
“How firm a foundation.” Prayer by Sis-
ter Clara C. Cannon. A quartette from the
Temple choir sang “O Jesus, the Giver of
all we enjoy.”


