A FRIENDLY LETTER. 
	Gleneyre, Colorado, Dec. 20, 1900.
My Dear Mrs. Wells:
	I write so you will get this in time for the
last meeting of the Press Club of 1900. I
do not want the sun of the new century to
shine upon me knowing that I owe club
dues. I send them to you, not knowing
who the new officers are, and as the Press
Club without Mrs. E. B. Wells would be
like the play of Hamlet with Hamlet left
out, I know you are there.
	I visited in Denver for about six weeks
after leaving Salt Lake, then I came up to
visit a friend who lives eighty miles from
the railroad, we were cut off from all
sociability, only within ourselves. The
wild natural beauty and the spicy breath of
pine woods and mountains always suggest
to me “The Funeral of Moses,” where it
says:
	“The dark rocked pines, with tossing plumes,
		Over his bier shall wave,
	And God’s own hand in that lonely land, 
		To lay him in his grave.”
	Friendship induced me to come to this
romantic spot, and when physical endur-
ance is no longer able to stand the butterfly
existence of city life, this is a beau ideal
habitation for the “Rest for the Weary.”
	I would that I had the gift to describe the
beautiful sunsets, the elevatiou is 8,500
feet, and if an artist could transfer the
beautiful scenes to canvas, all of the gor-
geous tints which are intermingling in the
glowing colors of nature, his fame and for-
tune would be made.
	The house is picturesque, large and
roomy, built of logs. Situated aloft on
the very summit of a mountain range,
yet nestling in the shelter of pine-covered
heights, sweeping into circles around it.
	The ranch of 1,100 acres is watered by
the purest and coldest of running streams,
the atmosphere clear and bracing, the little
pine draines or gulches around them put me
in mind of “The Deserted Trail.”

“And half way up there stands all slim and white,
A grove of quaking asps,
And often there when morn the mountain clasps,
I’ve stood in mute delight
Betwixt each silvery stem you catch a glance
At ranges far and blue,
And one great peak that leaps so straight and true,
A mighty ice-tipped lance.
Within that grove in August late I’ve found, 
A thousand columbines
Flaunting their purple heads so fair and fine,
Carpeting all the ground.
Amid the city’s rush and smothered wail,
see that mountain shine,
The quaking aspens and the Columbine.
The old deserted trail.”

	This describes those little gulches so
much better than I could. I have a gallery
of brain pictures stowed away, but my pen
is not equal to the occasion.
	I want to get back to Utah by the first of
the year, but my home for most of 1901 will
be in Price, Utah. I shall endeavor to
keep in touch with the Press Club, as I en-
joy it so much. Remember me to all
friends.
		Sincerely yours,
