[Column 1]
SOME HAPPENINGS OF THE NEW YEAR.
	President George Q. Cannon’s visit to the
Sandwich Islands to attend the Semi-Centen-
nial celebration of the advent of the Gospel
into that faroff land, was an event of consider-
able significance, and as President Cannon
was one of that company of Elders, though
then a very young man, who first took the
Gospel to that people fifty years ago, it did
seem a fitting tribute to him, that he should
be present and give them the opportunity to
hear him speak in the language he learned at
that time, and it must have been a great
satisfaction to them to see and hear him.
	Those who have read the account of
his trip in the Deseret Evening News know
how delighted the native people were, and
especially the descendants of those who re-
ceived the Elders into their homes at that
time, to have him among them now that he
has attained to such a high position in the
Church and in the nation.
	It was very affecting even to read of the
ovation paid him, and must have been a
most pathetic scene to witness. It reminds
one very forcibly of Longfellow’s salutation to
his college fifty years after, when the class in
Bowdoin college celebrated its semi-centen-
nial. The poem is one of the most beautiful
in the English language.
**Alas, what have I said?
What greetings come there from the voiceless dead?
What salutation, welcome or reply?
What pressure from the hands that lifeless lie?
They are no longer here; they all are gone
Into the land of shadows—all save one.
Honor and reverence, and the good repute
That follows faithful service as its fruit,
Be unto him, whom living we salute.

The great Italian poet, when he made
His dreadful journey to the realms of shade
Met there the old instructor of his youth
And said in tones of pity and of ruth:
“O never from the memory of my heart
Your dear, paternal image shall depart,
Who while on earth, ere yet by death surprised.
Taught me how mortals are immortalized.
***
Today we make the poet’s words our own,
And utter them in plaintive undertone;
Nor to the living only be they said,
But to that other living called the dead,
Whose dear paternal images appear
Not wrapped in gloom but robed in sunshine here;
Whose simple lives complete and without flaw,
Were part and parcel of great Nature’s law,
Who said not to their Lord, as if afraid
"Here is thy talent in a napkin laid,”
But labored in their sphere, as men who live
In the delight that work. alone can give.
Peace be to them, eternal peace and rest,
And the fulfillment of the great behest;
“Ye have been faithful over a few things,
Over ten cities shall ye reign as kings,”

[Column 2]
	Since January 1st of this year, 1901,
time has been busy with its record of notable
happenings. The inauguration of the
Governor of Utah and the State officials
should be mentioned first perhaps, although
the demonstrations were unostentatious, it
was sort of military, Brigadier General John
Q. Cannon, of the National Guard of Utah,
having charge of the affair.
	The official proceedings took place in the
Hall of Representatives, in the City and
County Building, the platform being
appropriately and artistically draped with
flags and banners, the Declaration of
Independence, handsomely framed, hanging
on the wall at the back and over the heads
of the judges and officers of the State.
Held’s Baud discoursed martial music.
General Cannon was Master of Ceremonies.
	Prayer was offered by the Right Reverend
Bishop Scanlan, of the Catholic Church of
this city. Chief Justice Miner, of the
Supreme Court of Utah, administered the
oath of office in the formal manner to the
State officers, except the Governor, who
then proceeded to give his inaugural address,
and after the conclusion of the address,
which was a very able document, and when
the applause had subsided, the Chief Justice
administered the oath to the Governor, and
General Cannon announced the Governor of
Utah and gave the signal for a salute of
seventeen guns. The cannon boomed just
at the hour of twelve and the band followed
with “America,” the audience rising in re-
sponse to the national air, and the great and
grand ceremonies of State were over.
	Congratulations and handshaking fol-
lowed. The day was very stormy but all
passed off pleasantly nevertheless. Better
storms without than storms within, and one
cannot help feeling it a good omen to open
a new century so auspiciously as
Utah has by ushering in its new officers of
State with such general good feeling by all
political parties and the people concerned in
its welfare.
	Elaborate preparations had been made for
an inaugural ball to finish the day’s exer-
cises, and the Salt Lake Theatre had been
decorated profusely with flags, banners,
bunting and colored electric lights; an
immense bee hive, the State emblem con-
spicuously placed in the centre of the first
circle, opposite to the platform, added much
to the attractive features.
	Many mottoes were arranged in the colors
of lights and were very handsome, as well
as significant. The ball was given by “the
National Guard of Utah in honor of the
Governor, Heber M. Wells and the State
officers of Utah.” It was a superb affair,
and most enjoyable. Printed programs,
on the cover the bee hive and monogram of
the N. G. U. in blue and gold, encircled by
the sego lily (the State flower) and below the
words “Inaugural Ball,” with arrows
crossed underneath and finished with the
figures, 1901.
	The Governor’s staff and officers of the
National Guard were in uniform, which
added greatly to the attractions of the
scene on the floor, although, of course, the
Governor himself was the great attraction,
not even the brilliant ladies in their elabor-
ate toilettes, outshining him on this festive
occasion.

	The Legislature of the State of Utah con-
vened on Monday, January 14, and have
been in regular session since that time.
An effort was made, as there were no

[Column 3]
women members, to get the Senate to
appoint a woman chaplain, but it was not
successful.
	The electing of a United States Senator
has occupied the attention of the general
public, as naturally it should, and feeling
that matter to be a most important one,
finally, after voting for this and that candi-
date, the Republican members of the
Legislature in joint session, on Wednesday
at high noon, January 23, elecedt Hon.
Thomas Kearns United States Senator for
Utah, with the entire vote of the House
and Senate, thirty-seven in all. The
Democrats, true to their party, honored
A. W. McCune by casting the whole num-
ber of their votes for him. A committee
of two was appointed from both the Senate
and the House to conduct the Governor
and one of the Supreme Court Judges to
Senator Kearns, and present him to the
joint assembly.
	While awaiting the arrival of Senator
Kearns, Senator Smoot reminded the
Legislature that they had been notified of
the death of the greatest sovereign the
world had ever known, and thought it
proper for the Legislature to adjourn in
honor of Queen Victoria, and offered
Resolutions of sympathy.
	At 1:25 the Governor came into the hall
and introduced Senator Kearns, who briefly
addressed the Members of the Legislature
and Friends.
	“No man could receive so high an honor
as that you have just conferred upon me
without feeling a deep sense of gratitude.
To say that I thank you from the bottom
of my heart but feebly expresses my feel-
ings at this time. I am no orator. I am
but a plain, blunt man, and what I lack in
oratory I hope to make up in action. I
promise you now that so far as lies in my
power I shall do everything possible to
maintain the honor and integrity of our
beloved State, and my hig[-]est ambition
will be gratified if I can advance Utah’s
material interests and place her in the
forefront of western States. Again I thank
you.”
	The Governor said in part:
	“I have known Mr. Kearns for many
years and found him to be an example of
integrity, good citizenship and splendid
executive ability; He has risen from the
pick and drill, from what might be called
the bucket brigade, to his present high
commercial standing by his own efforts.
I have no fear as to the results of his
election as Senator. I do not fear that
that there will be blood on the moon or
that the earth will stop revolving on its
axis. He may not be long on oratory, but
he will make up for this lack in his other
sterling qualities, and I have no doubt will
prove a credit to our State.”
	Justice Miner of the Supreme Court then
said a few words on the choice of the new
Senator. He said that he believed in the
selection that had been made we would
have for Senator a business man of sterling
quality and a man of character who would
reflect honor on the State-


MRS. EVANGELINE HEARTZ, member of
the Colorado House of Representatives,
has been made chairman of the committee
on enrollment and a member of the com-
mittee on appropriations and expenditures,
education, State institutions, temperance
and public health.


