[Column 1]
YOUNG LADIES' BAZAR.
	The young ladies of the Fourth Ward,
Provo, having in mind the need of a Social
Hall, opened a Bazar, hoping to raise
means to help build a suitable place for
musicales and ward entertainments, and
they have made many articles useful and
ornamental, the workmanship of their own
hands, that are very creditable and make a
good showing and sell well. They also
have home made candy and good lemonade
for sale. The Bazar is in S. S. Jones’ store,
a commodious place, and the large room is
lined on both sides all the way down the
building with booths, prettily draped and
curtained in colors, and strikingly pretty
girls in quaint costumes have charge of
some of the booths, while others, where
more substantial articles are sold, are pre-
sided over by young matrons, who seemed
to be quite as attractive to customers, in
the way of pleasing conversation, as the
younger sisterhood.
	The undertaking is a very commendable
one. Each evening they have a change of
program up stairs in the hall to entertain
the public, at ten cents a piece. On the
Tuesday evening to which the Governor
and others from Salt Lake had been especi-
ally invited, a fine musical program was in
the hands of Prof. Anthon H. Lund, Jr.,
and consisted of choice selections from
great composers, as well as a few simple
ballads which always add to the enjoy-
ment of the audience, filling the gap be-
tween the exalted tones of the higher and
more classical music, and the coming down,
so to speak, of the audience, who cannot
quite, keep up the enthusiasm consequent
Upon the intenseness of the soul-inspiring
music of the great masters.
	Prof. Lund and his coterie of singers and
musicians did themselves proud on the oc-
casion, and indeed when it came to the
speaking, one could not find fitting words
to express the delight such music had in-
spired in the hearts of the assembly.
Governor Wells was in a happy mood and
never fails to make a good impression, and
his aunt, who accompanied him, made a few
brief remarks, touching upon the future
destiny of the young people of Utah.
	The hall was crowded to overflowing and
it is ardently hoped a good sum of
money was realized, for the program was
worth it.
	Then came the banquet to which Gover-
nor Wells and other dignitaries sat down
and feasted. Mrs Susa Young Gates was
toastmistress, and her gift in this line is
well known. She shines brilliantly in this
sort of role.
	The banquet was a sumptuous affair and
the table decorations, roses and ferns, were
both beautiful and fragrant. Mayor Taylor
pronounced the blessing. Young girls in
pretty costumes, with smiling faces, waited
upon the numerous guests. It was a festive
gathering. Many of the toasts were re-
sponed to in the wittiest manner, and a little
delightful sparring between the toastmis-
tress and one of the ladies, gave zest to the
occasion.
	The Governor was, as usual, brilliant

[Column 2]
and original in his response to the toas
“Utah and Her People.” Miss Reynolds
gave a literary dissertation, and Prof. Brim-
hall soared high, but that is to be expected
of professors. There were also others, too,
who acquitted themselves well, and the feast
was a great social success.


