[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SEVIER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held at Richfield, in the Relief Society hall
at ten a. m., November 24, 1900, President
Christina Sorenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer by
Sister Agnes Thurber. Singing, “Prayer
is the soul’s sincere desire." Minutes of
the last conference read and accepted.
	President Christina Sorenson made open-
ing remarks. Spoke of the instructions
given at the General Conference in Salt
Lake City, also of the second coming of
Christ and the building up of the center
Stake of Zion. Said to prepare ourselves,
set a good example to our children, put away
selfishness and keep the Word of Wisdom.
	President A. Thurber reported the Rich-
field Relief Society. The sisters are trying
to do their duty; teachers report favorably;
meetings held semi-monthly; visit the sick;
visit the Young Ladies and Primary.

[Column 2]
	Sister Hannah Roberts reported Anna-
bella Relief Society doing a good work;
grain in their own granary; have a good
lot of sisters; teachers visit regularly.
	President Mary Buchanan reported Glen-
wood Relief Society; sisters are willing to
donate; hold semi-monthly meetings; have
a good lot of sisters; grain in their own
granary.
	President Mary Anderson reported Koosh-
arem Relief Society in good condition. Al-
ways felt well paid in coming to conference.
	Sister Josephine Jensen reported Salina
Relief Society in good condition; grain in
their own granary all right; sisters willing
to perform their duty; visit Young Ladies
and Primary.
	President A. M. Dastrup reported Sigurd
Relief Society: meetings well attended[-]
sisters willing to help; felt to do her duty.
	Sister Elizabeth Gledhill reported Ver-
million: sisters are interested and willing to
do their duty; grain in tithing granary.
	President Seegmiller presented for vote
General and Stake officers of the Relief
Society—all sustained by sisters.
	President Seegmiller was pleased to hear
reports of sisters. Spoke of the late General
Conference; of the second coming of Christ;
of the labors of the Prophet Joseph; build-
ing up of the Center Stake of Zion. Thought
the Relief Society was doing a great work.
	Secretary Mary Swindle read Stake
report.
	President Christina Sorenson spoke of
nurses class; of membership fee; hoped we
would be prompt this afternoon.
	Minutes read and approved. Singing,
"Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Benediction by President W. Seegmiller.
	At 2 p. m. conference continued, Presi-
dent C. Sorenson presiding. Singing,
“O, ye mountains high.” Prayer by
Brother G. M. Jones. Singing, “Now let
us rejoice.” Minutes of last conference
read.
	President Laura Staples reported Elsi-
nore: sisters are united; teachers are well
received; grain in tithing granary.
	Sister Cora Birdsall represented Monroe
Relief Society: have testimony and work
meetings; sisters united: wheat in tithing
granary.
	Joseph, Inverury, Burrville, Marysvale, Au-
rora, Venice and Redmond not reported.
	President C. Sorenson spoke of the
General Relief Society House to be built in
Salt Lake City. Related the success of the
committee who went to see President Snow,
and that we are expected to do our part.
Spoke of the joy of our aged sisters to look
forward to the time when the place will be
completed; of the interest taken by all the
Stake presidents, who voted each Stake
would do its part. Hoped the sisters of
our Stake would not be behind in this work.
	Vice-President Mary E. Magleby read
from the EXPONENT of March 1899, about
this house, also read a circular from the
General Board, dated November 2, 1900,
about this building, also the Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primary having an inter-
est in the same.
	Vice President Ellen Hanson said, “I am
glad to be numbered with the sisters of the
Relief Society, it is good to speak by the in-
fluence of the Holy Spirit. Cultivate our
speech, show a good example to our chil-
dren. Let us live humble before the Lord,
obey the Priesthood and ask the Lord to
help us to do our duty.
	Brother G. M Jones favored us with a
solo, “Visions of the Old Folks at Home.”


