		BINGHAM STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Bing-
ham Stake was held at Louisville, Febru-
ary 9, 1901, commencing at 10 a. m., Presi- 
dent E. J. Bennett presiding. Singing, “Up
awake ye  defenders of Zion.” Prayer was
offered by President Jas. E. Steele. Sing-
ing, “Arise, my soul, arise.”
	President E. J. Bennett expressed herself
as being very pleased with the attendance.
Said her mind was ever with the sisters of
this Stake, and she was constantly planning
for their welfare.
	The Relief Society of Grant ward was
reported by Sister Julia Dabel.
	President Jas. E. Steele said he found
in conversing with the Bishops of different
wards, that the Relief Society were doing a
good work and knew they were of great
importance in the wards, when they per-
form the duties assigned to them. Wished
to call the attention of the sisters to a lack
of being familiar with those who come
among us from other places. People
coming among us as strangers, feel that
they are one with us, and that we have an
interest in them. Urged the sisters to
work assiduously in this Relief Society
work and see that they get their credit for
it, for “by the books shall ye be judged.”
Spoke of the diligence of President Emma
Bennett who had traveled from Provo to
meet with the sisters in this conference,
because she had been called to do so.
	President Luna Jardine, of the Louis


ville Relief Society, reported the society as
being in a good condition. They were all
united and were laboring to relieve the
poor and to do all the duties assigned to
them.
	Counselor Elvira C. Steele read a greet-
ing from the General Board from the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Encouraged all to
press on in the work. Felt if we would
live, nearer to the Lord we would not
have so much sickness among us.
	President E. J. Bennett spoke of the
general building to be erected in Salt Lake
City. Hoped this Stake would be second
to none in donating.
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
Singing, “Come, O Thou King of Kings.”
Benediction by Bishop A. J. Stanger.
	Meeting opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Prayer by Bishop R. Jar-
dine. Singing, “O ye mountains high.”
	President Barrett, Willow Creek Relief
Society, reported that society in a prosper
ous condition. Sabel, Milo, Rigby, Iona,
Eagle Rock and Menan branches were re-
ported as being in a united and prosperous
condition.
	Counselor Elvira Steele felt that we had
been truly blessed in this conference. We
have many trials and obstacles to contend
with, but we must press forward and do
our duty and the Lord will bless us. Let
us attend our Relief Society meetings, if
we have to take our children with us, for
we should not waste these golden oppor-
tunities.
	Brother Benjamin Bennett, of the Eagle
Rock ward, said when we honor the priest-
hood, pay our tithing and keep the com-
mandments of God, we are happy; and
when we have sickness we can call down
the spirit of God upon us.
	President Bennett said she very much
missed Sister Emma C. Rushton, her first
counselor, who had moved to Oregon, “and
as she expects to make her home there, I
propose that we release her from her labors
in this Stake. She was honorably released
with a hearty vote of thanks. She has
labored unselfishly for the Relief Society
of this Stake. We should be as willing to
assist those in sickness and poverty as she
has been. Spoke of the duties of teachers.
Teachers should be the very best of women,
that they may have the spirit of God with
them. Go with your hearts full of love that
you may have the spirit of discernment.”
Exhorted the officers to hold their officers’
meetings. “May your members increase
and the blessings of God be upon you all.”
	President Bennett said as Sister Rushton
had been released she would like Sister E.
C. Steele as her first counselor. She was
accepted in the position by a unanimous
vote of the conference. The General Board
and Stake officers were then presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Elvira C. Steele was set apart as
first counselor to President Emma J. Ben-
nett.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Benediction by Elder Thomas Lee.
