[Column 1]
NEW HALL DEDICATED.
	Minutes of a meeting of the Relief Society
of the Oakley Ward, Cassia Co.. Idaho,
held in the new society hall, the principal
object being the dedication of the building
to the purpose for which it was erected,
President Isabel Martindale presiding.
	Singing by the congregation, “The
happy day is rolling on.” Opening prayer
by Patriarch Franklin Brim. Singing,
“Behold the Savior of mankind.”
	President Martindale felt pleased that the
hall had been so far completed that we could
have it dedicated, and knew that the Lord
had blessed the society in the endeavor
to build a comfortable place fo meet in.
	She then called upon Stake President
Wm. T. Jack to offer the dedicatory prayer.
	President Wm. T. Harper hoped that the
spirit of God would continue with the
meeting as it had to the present. Said
that he sometimes thought that if it were
not for the great mercy of our Heavenly
Father, it would be useles, for us to attempt
to do good, as we so often failed; but God
is full of charity and mercy and is long-
suffering, and is willing to help us as long
as we have a spirit of repentance and are
willing to go before our Father in heaven
and acknowledge our sins and ask Him in
faith for the blessings we need, for the time
is fast coming when we must live by faith,
such faith that we can go before God with-
out doubt, knowing that we will receive
the blessing that we need. It is this power
that is going to make us great on the earth.
Read a few paragraphs from the Doctrine
and Covenants regarding the responsibility
of parents in teaching their children the
principles of the Gospel, and the conse-
quence of a failure on the part of the parents
in Zion in not teaching their children these

[Column 2]
principles, and seeing to it that all children
in Zion are acquainted with the same and
are baptized at the age of eight years. He
urged the young ladies and young men of
Israel to be careful in selecting their life
companion, that they marry only those who
are full of the spirit of the Gospel, that the
fruits of their union may grow up full of
the spirit of God. This condition cannot
be brought about when one of the parents
is opposed to the Church of Jesus Christ.
Asked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters especially and the Saints in general,
that we may all feel the importance of living
the lives of Latter-day Saints.
	President Martindale then called upon
Stake President Louisa Haight, of the
Relief Society.
	Sister Haight was glad in meeting with
sisters, and that they had been blessed so
much that they had been able to build so
beautiful a hall, and that it was so nearly
out of debt.
	The Bishop’s counselor, T. W. Robbins,
congratulated the sisters on the haste in
which they had been enabled to complete
their building, and was also greatly inter-
ested in the remarks of President Harper
regarding the responsibility of the parents
in Israel teaching their children the princi-
ples of the Gospel, and the fact that if any
of our children, through our failure to do
these things, should prove untrue to the
principles of truth, that God would require
their sins at our hands, or rather would
visit their sins upon our heads. Asked the
blessing of the Lord upon those who had
labored so hard to complete their building;
also upon all the officers, both ward and
Stake, and upon all that had a desire to
further the kingdom of God.
	Brother George Craner, who had labored
so hard as a member of the building com-
mittee, was called upon to speak a few
words. He referred to the adverse con-
ditions the committee had to meet during
the erection of the building. Said that
there was almost enough money on hand to
settle for the building.
	President Martindale felt pleased with the
spirit manifest during the meeting and for
the many good instructions given by the
brethren. Said that the sisters had always
been willing to do their part in the erection
of the building or any other labor required
of them.
	Brother George Craner proposed a vote of
thanks to Brother George Bunn for the
energy displayed in laying the brick.
Carried.
	Singing, “Come go with me beyond the
sea.” Benediction by Brother George
Bunn.
				J. N. PRICE, Sec. pro tem.


