NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Dr. Alice Byram Condict, of Orange,
N. J., after serving eight years as a self-
supporting medical missionary in India, is
how doing medical missionary work m
Manila. She left Bombay three months
ago after exhausting herself caring for the
famine sufferers.”

	Miss Mary G. Hay, who has been for
some years one of the ablest and most
efficient organizers in the ranks of the
National Suffrage Association, has accepted
an important position in the Mutual Life
Insurance Company, where her admirable
business talents will have large scope.

	Miss Estelle Reel, Superintendent of
Indian Education, has just issued her
annual report, from which the following
extracts are made. Since her appointment
26 months ago, Miss Reel has been in the
field 17 months, lias inspected 49 schools,
traveled 41,138 miles, of which 2,087 miles
were covered by wagon, pack horse and
on foot, over lofty mountains, through
dense forests, on remote frontiers and over
rugged trails between precipitous cliffs. 
	Col. T. W. Higginson, accompanied
by Mrs. Higginson, has gone on a two
weeks lecturing tour out West It is many
years now since he has given lectures in
cities outside Boston and vicinity. He
does it now because he feels physically
able. He will speak in Chicago before the
Twentieth Century Club, in Cleveland at
the Northwestern University, offering three
lectures on “American orators and ora-
tory,” and in Minneapolis, Indianapolis
and Akron, O He has also in view a trip
to the Mediterranean, taking in Grenada, 
the Alhambra and Italy, and returning by
way of France and England. His wife and
daughter accompany him. They will sail 
in March.

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe was an honored
guest at the banquet of the Daughters of
Vermont on the last night of the old year,
and was introduced by the president of the
club, Mrs. Sallie Joy White, as one of
Massachusetts’, America’s and the world’s
loved daughters. Mrs. Howe referred
pleasantly to her visits to Vermont in win-
ter when it was sheathed in ice, and in
summer when it was blooming and green,
and it was always beautiful. She said she
had lived four-fifths of the century just
closing. The country had grown and 
cities sprung up like flowers since she
could remember. “Let us expect the new
century will surpass the one now going
out,” she said. ‘‘Let us expect that all
good things will go forward and surround
[]he world with a bond of p


