		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called our 
beloved sister from our midst, who was a faithful
worker, a kind and loving mother and a friend to
all.
	Resolved, That our Heavenly Father has called 
her home and that we desire to emulate her ex-
ample; that we herewith express our sympathy 
for her heart-broken husband and her loving chil-
dren and grandchildren.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on 
the records of the Lyman Relief Society, one sent 
to the bereaved family and one to the EXPONENT 
for publication.
			JEANNETTE SENROOT, Sec. 
		MARY CLARKSON LARK.
	Sister Lark, whose recent death we record here 
was born in England sometime over seventy 
years ago, and received the Gospel in her native 
land, emigrating to this country with her husband 
and family for the sake of her religion.
	She passed away at her home in Woodland,
Summit county, Utah, January 28, 1901, after a 
severe illness of ten days with La Grippe. Her 
husband preceded her to the “other side” a few 
years ago, and now she has gone to meet him to 
part no more forever. She leaves four children, 
two sons and two daughters, and a host of friends 
to mourn the loss of a kind and thoughtful mother 
and adviser. 
	Sister Lark, or “Aunt Mary,” as she was affec-
tionately designated by those who knew her inti-
mately was a consistent and upright Latter-day 
Saint, and was regarded as a model woman in her 
daily life and conversation, never speaking ill of 
any one. Such an example is worthy of imitation 
by all, and especially those who profess to live by 
the Golden Rule. 
	Sister Lark was very highly esteemed by mem-
bers of the family of President George Q. Cannon,
with whom she had been intimately associated in 
past years, as nurse and companion in times of 
sickness, and some of them were acquainted with 
her for thirty years.
	Her loss will be deeply felt, for she was beloved 
by relatives, neighbors and friends; but our loss is 
her gain, and those who remain have no need for 
sorrow, except that of missing her society here
Our beloved ones are not lost, they are safe, and 
those who loved them here should not mourn with-
out hope of meeting them again, but strive to follow 
in their footsteps, that they may attain to the same 
exaltation hereafter. 
	“They are not lost, they are within the door 
	That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing,
	With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
	In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself, their Lord and Judge and
		King.”
								S. J. C.


