LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Febru-
ary 9, 1901, at 2 p. m , with Counselor
Stevenson presiding.
	Opened by singing “For the strength of
the hills.” Prayer by Sister Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “All hail the glorious
day.” Minutes of December 15, 1900, were
read and accepted
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the sick-
ness of President M. I. Horne, that she was
just convalescing. Spoke of the sacred house
we are meeting in today and of the many
excellent meetings held here.
	Sister Mair said she felt thankful to be 
here, had been a member of the Church


twenty-five years, and was thankful for it.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she knew
that God loved His daughters as well as
His sons, and she had never regretted that
she was a woman. This house would not
hold the women of Zion if they knew what
was good for them.
	Sister Smith bore her testimony. She
felt all should pray for those who preside
over us; said how the Lord had blessed her
with health to perform Temple work.
	Sister Hardy bore her testimony, also
Sister Julia C. Howe, who said God had
planted a love of the Gospel in her heart.
Said she had felt she could never get over
the loss of her relatives, but now she felt
that where her treasures were, there her
heart is also. Hoped we would all prove
faithful to the end.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O Jesus, the
Giver,” assisted by the congregation.
	Sister Hannah Lapish spoke of a vision
she had received, and Sisters Hannah
Workman, Long, Gardner, Long, Wood-
ward, Martha Morris, Sister Shaw, and
several others whose names were not known
to the secretary, bore their testimonies.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger said she felt
the Spirit of God was here, and she felt
thankful for the testimonies of so many.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said: "It is a great
privilege to meet together. Sisters, let us
set an example before our children. Do
not let us even play cards. I know a great
many Latter-day Saints entertain their
friends in card playing, I believe it a
device of the evil one to lead us away. Let
us remember every light word must be ac-
counted for.
	Counselor Stevenson thought the time
had been profitably spent. We are told out
of the books we are to be judged, so let us
not let the records be blanks. Exhorted all
to overcome their timidity and all bear their
testimonies.
	Singing, ‘‘Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by Julia S. Woolley.
