				CULTURE.
	
	The Utah Silk Commssion desire to call 
attention to the fact that the time for raising 
silk is again upon us, and we trust that 
those who intend entering upon the work
this year will write to us at once for eggs.
Those who are taking up the work for the 
first time will kindly state the number and 
size of the trees from which they can obtain 
leaves, also the number of persons who can 
give their time during the latter period of 
the raising season, so that we will be able 
to send the necessary number of eggs. We 
also desire to state that eggs can be obtained 
from the Commission free, and we would 
prefer to have every one who is going to 
raise the worms obtain eggs from us, as we 
provide a quality which gives much better 
results than those raised by people having 
little or no experience. We will also send 
pamphlet of instructions free to those wish-
ing any information on this subject.
	We also wish to remind the people that 
the season for planting trees is here, and 
while we have been greatly pleased with 
the number of trees which have been 
planted during the last few years, yet we 
are anxious for an increase in this work, as 
the production of large quantities of silk in 
the future depends on the planting of trees 
now. One of the sad things which still 
comes to our notice is that we occasionally 
hear of some one's destroying some of the 
old trees, and we urge those who have be-
come interested in this important industry 
to be watchful lest any more of these valuable 
trees be destroyed.
	We again ask those who have trees and 
do not care to use them, to allow others to 
use the leaves, for we assure you it will 
only benefit the trees, even if they are strip-
ped, they will soon come out much more


beautiful and will only help to destroy the
fruit which is sometimes so annoying,
especially where trees are planted on the
street.
	Address all communications to Margaret
A. Caine, Secretary Utah Silk Commission,
Room 502, City and County Building, Salt
Lake City, Utah.


The chapter of the Autobiography of
Sister Sarah B. Layton, and also a part of
the Relief Society report of Granite Stake
were left out of this issue of the paper after
having been “set up,” also two poems, but
they will appear next month.


Woman’s Exponent.
		The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
