[Column 1]
GREETING TO THE WORLD.
BY PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW.
	A new century dawns upon the world
today. The hundred years just completed
were the most momentous in the history of
man upon this planet. It would be impos-
sible in a hundred days to make even a brief
summary of the notable events, the mar-
velous developments, the grand achieve-
ments and the beneficial inventions and
discoveries, which mark the progress of the
ten decades now left behind in the ceaseless
march of humanity. The very mention of
the nineteenth century suggests advance-
ment, improvement, liberty and light.
Happy are we to have lived amidst its
wonders and shared in the riches of its
treasures of intelligence.
	The lessons of the past century should
have prepared us for the duties and glories
of the opening era. It ought to be the age
of peace, of greater progress, of the univer-
sal adoption of the golden rule. The bar-
barism of the past should be buried. War
with its horrors should be but a memory.
The aim of nations should be fraternity and
mutual greatness. The welfare of human-
ity should be studied instead of the enrich-
ment of a race or the extension of an em-
pire. Awake, ye monarchs of the earth and
rulers among nations, and gaze upon the
scene on which the early rays of the rising
Millennial day gild the morn of the twen-
tieth century! The power is in your hands
to pave the way for the coming King of
Kings, whose dominion will be over all the
earth. Disband your armies, turn your
weapons of strife into implements of indus-
try; take the yoke from the necks of the
people; arbitrate your disputes; meet in
royal congress, and plan for union instead of
conquest, for the banishment of poverty,
for the uplifting of the masses, and for the
health, wealth enlightenment and happiness
of all tribes and peoples and nations. Then
shall the twentieth century be to you the

[Column 2]
glory of your lives and the lustre of your
crowns, and posterity shall sing your
praises, while the Eternal One shall place
you on high among the mighty.
	Ye toiling millions, who, in the sweat of
your faces earn your daily bread, look up
and greet the power from above which
shall lift you from bondage! The day of
your redemption draweth nigh. Cease to
waste your wages in that which helps to
keep you in want. Regard not wealth as
your enemy and your employers as your
oppressors. Seek for the union of capital
and labor. Be provident when in prosper-
ity. Do not became a prey to designing
men who seek to stir up strife for their own
selfish ends. Strive for your rights by law-
ful means, and desist from violence and de-
struction. Anarchism and lawlessness are
your deadly foes. Dissipation and vice are
chains that bind you to slavery. Freedom
is coming for you, its light approaches as
the century dawns.
	Men and women of wealth, use your
riches to give employment to the laborer!
Take the idle from the crowded centers of
population and place them on the untilled
areas that await the hand of industry. Un-
lock your vaults, unloose your purses, and
embark in enterprises that will give work to
the unemployed, and relieve the wretched-
ness that leads to the vice and crime which
curse your great cities, and that poison the
moral atmosphere around you. Make
others happy, and you will be happy your-
selves.
	As a servant of God I bear witness to the
revelation of his will in the nineteenth cen- 
tury. It came by His own voice from the
heavens, by the personal manifestation of
His Son and by the manifestation of holy
angels. He commands all people every-
where to repent, to turn from their evil
ways and unrighteous desires, to be baptized
for the remission of their sins, that they
may receive the Holy Ghost and come into
communion with Him. He has commenced
the work of redemption spoken of by the
holy prophets, sages and seers of all the
ages and all the races of mankind. He
will assuredly accomplish His work and the
twentieth century will mark its advance-
ment towards the great consummation.
Every unfoldment of the nineteenth century
in science, in art, in mechanism, in music,
in literature, in poetic fancy, in philosophi-
cal thought was prompted by His Spirit
which before long will be poured out upon
all flesh that will receive it. He is the
Father of us all and he desires to save and
exalt us all.
	In the eighty-seventh year of my age on
earth, I feel full of earnest desire for the
benefit of humanity. I wish all a happy
New Year. I hope and look for grand
events to occur in the twentieth century.
At its auspicious dawn I lift my hands and
invoke the blessing of heaven upon the in-
habitants of the earth. May the sunshine
from above smile upon you. May the
treasures of the ground and the fruits of the
soil be brought forth freely for your good.
May the light of truth chase darkness from
your souls. May righteousness increase and


iniquity diminish as the years of the cent[--]
roll on. May justice triumph and corrup-
tion be stamped out. And may virtue and
chastity and honor prevail until evil shall
be overcome and the earth shall be cleansed
from wickedness. Let these sentiments, as
the voice of the “Mormons” in the moun-
tains of Utah, go forth to the whole world,
and let the people know that our wish and
our mission are for the blessing and salva-
tion of the entire human race. May the
twentieth century prove the happiest as it
will be the grandest of all the ages of time,
and may God be glorified in the victory that
is coming over sin and sorrow and misery
and death. Peace be unto you all!


