[Column 1]
AUTOBINGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
			(Continued.)
	That summer I worked very hard to get
my things ready. Brother Layton told
my parents that he would bear all my ex-
penses in going to the land of Zion, and
they consented for me to go. My only
sister was there alone and my father thought
it would be very nice for me to come and
live with her, she had no family of her own.
	Brother Layton and Sarah Martin were
married on the third day of May, 1850, at
Sandy Church, by Rev. Cook.
	The summer soon passed. Sister Layton
and I made a number of straw bonnets to
bring with us to this country. Shortly
before we were ready to start some one told
my father the Mormons had more than one
wife, and for him not to let me go with Mr.
Layton to Utah, or he would marry me.
My father did not know what to do, for he
had never heard of such a thing. He
worried some about it and finally told me
that if what he had heard were true, and
that if he thought I would marry that man,

[Columm 2]
he would rather bury me there and then
than to see such a thing happen. My
mother sanctioned all that he said, but I
told them that I thought I was old enough
to take care of myself. It hurt me to think
they would feel so hard about those things
that they did not understand, and I told her
that I had never in my life disobeyed her
but once, and that was when I came into
this Church, and that when she found out a
little about the Gospel she would be glad
that I had, and asked her why she should
think now that I would do anything that
was so wrong. She had promised Brother
Layton that I should go with him, and he
had promised to take care of me, and why
should she believe that Satan would make
up without considering it first, and seeing
if it were all right. They soon became
reconciled and felt better.
	September 26th was the day decided on to
start from home for Liverpool. My relatives
and friends were there in full to persuade
me to stay, and not go to Utah, where they
said I had neither friends nor money. I told
them that the Gospel taught me that unless
I was willing to forsake all for the Gospel’s
sake, I was unworthy to be called one of
the chosen. I shall never forget my feel-
ings on that occasion, for though my heart
felt as though it would break, I felt that my
way had been opened in answer to my
prayer. I felt that God had been kind to
me when father, mother and friends had all
turned a cold shoulder on me, and why
should I now distrust him? I had set my
mind and could not be turned from what I
felt was my duty, and I had so long prayed
for a chance to gather with the Saints to
Zion. I had also learned that sacrifice
would bring forth blessings, and I would
not let them see that it worried me in the
least.
	That day I went to Brother Layton’s
place that we might start together from
Bedford station. The next morning on
arriving there I found my mother and a
cousin there, they having walked twelve
miles to see me again. That was a hard
parting for me.
	As the train passed through the tunnel
going into Liverpool, the sight that met my
eyes was wonderful to me, as I had never
seen a ship nor the sea; but there I saw the
ships for miles along the harbor, and
the broad ocean spreading out before
me; what a wonder!
	We spent some time going about in
Liverpool and through the ships. We also
went through a “man of war” that was
there.
	The morning of the 30th came and we
boarded the ship James Pennel. The first
night out they began to be seasick, but I
was not bothered until the second morning.
As I arose I walked out of the cabin and
looked over the side of the ship, when all at
once I turned so dizzy that I could not
stand and began to vomit. That was a
good introduction to the disease. Nearly
all on board had a spell. After I had been
on the sea about two weeks I was taken
down with a severe cold, and was so bad
that I could hardly move. The captain told
Brother Layton to take me out and put me
in a chair on deck. This he did without
telling me what it was for. But I soon
found out, for I had not been there long
before a great wave came in sight, and I
sitting there helpless and alone. I was
fastened to the chair and the wave rolled
over me and drenched me through. It made
me angry, for I could not so much as change

[Column 3]
	At the end of six weeks we were within
one day’s sail of the Gulf of Mexico, and
we retired about midnight, the stars shin-
ing as brightly as possible. But we were
awakened soon after by the heavy roaring
of the sea, and the sound of the sailors.
Such thunder and lightning I had never
heard or seen. In a short time the main
mast was torn off and we drifted
helplessly for eleven days, not knowing
what our fate would be. But we were res-
cued and landed safely at St. Louis, Decem-
ber 4, thankful to our Heavenly Father for
our deliverance from what seemed would be
a watery grave.
	It was a cold, rainy day when we landed;
we knew no one, and no one seemed to
know us. We were as pilgrims in the
promised land, without home or shelter.
But Brother Layton went out in town and
rented a large store room on Fourth and
Poplar Streets. We went in and were
sheltered from the rain, but were very
cold. In a short time some one came up
with a new cook stove and set it up in the
room, but we had never seen such a thing
before and did not know what to do with
it, so we left it just as they put it. After
waiting a few hours, sitting on the floor of
that large, dirty room, Brother Layton re-
turned. He had been busy getting our
luggage off the boat. We did not know
how to rough it, as we had always had plenty
at home, and every accomodation possible
on the voyage, but when we came to be
placed in such conditions we were lost.
	O, how awkward we were at trying to
cook! But we made the best of it. Brother
Layton hired some one to do our washing,
but we did not stay in that place long, we
moved to Twelfth and Franklin Ave. In
the spring of 1851 Orson Hyde came down
from Kanesville and counseled Brother Lay-
ton to rent a farm if possible near St. Louis,
and put the men to work that were owing
him, and let them work it out. This, of
course, delayed our journey to the moun-
tains.
	One very hot day in July, as I was about
to eat my dinner, I began shaking violently,
and did not know what was the matter.
Soon a fever developed, and I then realized
that I had chills and fever. Every day I
would have a spell until I became very weak.
Many a night I never closed my eyes. One
time I felt a little better and was left alone
to do some work while Sister Layton was
away to see her father, who was sick. I
got a pan and went to get some flour from
the barrel, and that was the last that I
knew that day. When Brother and Sister
Layton returned they found me in an un-
conscious condition, and everything just as
they had left it in the morning. I had torn
my clothing into strings and pulled my
hair, but knew nothing of it. I had the
best of care that could be had, but could
get no relief as long as I lived in St. Louis.
	In the spring of 1852 we started on our
journey for the West. We went up the
Missouri river to Kansas City. While on
the boat I was taken down with congestive
chills that nearly cost me my life. I was not
able to walk around when we landed at
Kansas City, but soon improved so that in
a few days we moved out into the woods
where we made our camp. There were
four in our camp. Brother Layton and his
father and Sister Layton and I, and we
were miles away from where any other
white folks lived. Indians were passing
constantly, but we were never molested by
them. Brother Layton was called to


go to Lexington to buy horses for the Emi
gration Fund Company.
	Before we were ready to start on our
journey across the plains, the cholera broke
out in the camp and several died, but it did
not attack any of our camp. The chills
and fever was a constant attendant on me
nearly all the way. I did not walk at all
crossing the plains on account of sickness.
When we were traveling along the Platte
river I was baptized for my health, but it
did not appear to have much effect, so my
travels were anything but pleasant. I had
taken enough quinine for a dozen people, I
thought, but it was of no avail. The
morning we reached the Bear river bottom
I had my last shake, and it was a very
severe one. It was a cold, frosty morning
and took a long time to get up a large hill
that we had to go over. They took the
carriage up first, and then we had to wait
several hours for the rest of the camp. It
seemed that the chills had no more power
over me, but I had something else that was
almost as bad. A pain began in the roof of
my mouth, then it began gathering until I
could not open my mouth or swallow. Just
after we crossed the top of the mountains
Brother Franklin D. Richards and several
others came to meet us. He came to the
Wagon that I was riding in and administered
to me and promised me that my tongue
should be loosened that I could talk to friends
when I arrived in Salt Lake the next day.
My sister and her husband had come a long
way to meet us, but on account of my
mouth I had not been able to talk to her.
	Next morning we left camp early and as we
caught sight of the valley we saw some of
the elderberries and Sister Layton jumped
off the wagon to get some of them for me. I
tried to crowd some of them into my mouth,
when all at once the gathering broke; and
what a relief! My tongue was loosed just
as I was told it should be, and I did talk to
my friends.
	The first house that I went into in Salt
Lake was Brother Elias Smith’s. It was a
log house with but one room in it, but we
Were made welcome, and it was a rest after
our long journey across the plains.
(To be continued.)


