	PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of Primary Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake, held in the Assembly
Hall, December 15, 1900, President Cam-
illa C. Cobb presiding.
	On the stand with President Cobb were
her counselors, Lydia A. Wells and Mary
L. Morris and aids, President Louie B.
Felt, Counselor Lillie T. Freeze and May
Anderson, secretary of the General Board.
	Meeting opened by singing "Open the
door for the children." Prayer by Master
James Hooper. Singing, "Did you think
to pray." Roll called, twenty-one Presidents
responding with sentiments. Minutes of
previous conference read and approved.
The program was carried out as follows:
"Story of the Life of the Savior," by
the Nineteenth ward Primary.
	Song by Edith Grant, "A Miracle."
"The Widow of Nain" was repeated by
Master Pruette Goddard.
	Song, "Think of These Things," by
members of the Ninth Ward Primary.
	Recitation by Mercy Bywater, and song
by Katie Martin of the same ward.
	An address on the duties of the children
was given by Master Woolley.
	The parable, "The lillies of the field,"
was repeated by Mary Grant.
	An exercise on the "Book of Mormon"
was given by members of the Twenty-Fourth
Ward Primary.
	Song by Leah Ashton.
	Recitation and song, "The Rosebud,"
by four little girls from the Third Ward.
	Sister Olive Derbidge told a pleasing
Christmas story, which was very much en-
joyed by the children, after which Master
Asper gave a selection on the organ.
	President Felt then addressed the confer-
ence. Said she had listened with pleasure
to the exercises. Told the children that if
they wanted to be happy on Christmas day
they should visit the poor and the families
of missionaries, and try to make them hap-
py. Said as there were so many sick in
our midst would give them a mission to
pray for them.
	Veda Jones gave a recitation, entitled,
"Uncle Pete's Plea."
Counselor Lillie T. Freeze spoke to the
children. Asked them to carry out in their
lives the sentiment, "Whatsoever ye would
have others do to you, do ye even so to
them," and make it their life's lesson; and
also told them they should try to make
some one happy on Christmas day. Felt to
bless teachers and children.
	After singing, "We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet," conference was adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Brother
Goddard.
	At the close of the conference packets of
candy were distributed to the children.
