RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Eternal Father, in His infinite
Wisdom, has seen fit to call from this stage of
action our beloved sister, Laura Levander, who
was a very faithful and energetic worker in the
Church, was counselor in the Primary for a num-
ber of years, a constant Sunday School teacher and
a faithful teacher in the Relief Society,
	Resolved, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associate and friend, that He
doeth all things for the best, and we must be re-
signed to His holy will.
	That we her colaborers extend to her husband
and the family our heartfelt sympathy in their sad
loss.

	Death also claimed one of our aged sisters,
Sister Sarah Elizabeth Jackson, who passed quiet-
away November 18, 1899, aged eighty-four
years- She was born in Sweden, March 16, 1816,
was baptized December 21, 1871, and emigrated to
Utah September 28, 1862. She died as she had
lived, a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	’Tis hard to be parted from those with whom we
forever could dwell, but we know they have entered

[Column 2]
that beautiful city, there with the angels to dwell
				NETTIE FRETJEN,
				ALICE ELLSWORTH,
							Committee.
RHODA BARNES SNELL.
	Rhoda Barnes Snell, the subject of this brief
sketch, was born at Sackville, New Burnswick,
November 21, 1815. Her father’s name was John
Barnes and her mother’s maiden name was
Hannah Dixon. She was the eldest of a large
family of sons and daughters. Her paternal
ancestors came from England in the year 1665,
and settled in Connecticut, and those on her
mother’s side came from the same country and set-
tled near where she was born.
	In 1832 she was married to Cyrus Snell, a native
of New Hampshire, and became the mother of six
sons and one daughter, two of whom she buried in
infancy.
	In the year 1836 John Hewit and Lyman Johnson
brought the Gospel to that land, making their
headquarters for a time with the Snell family, at
whose mill (Mr. Snell being a wool carder and
cloth dresser) they preached, and baptized quite a
number of souls, among whom were the subject of
this sketch and her husband and parents.
	In her old home she continued to live in the midst
of relatives and former friends, by whom she be-
came the object of much ridicule and pity. Many
of the Saints, her father’s family included, having
moved to Kirtland, she was sorely tried at times,
but never wavered in her faith in the Gospel.
	At length, in the year 1853, the Lord opened the
way, by raising up an apostate to purchase their
property, and they started for Deseret in April,
staying in Wisconsin a year with some of her
father’s family, who, in the meantime, had aposta-
tized and settled there. Here they purchased their
outfit, three ox and one horse team, for crossing
the plains, and in the following April started,
out for Salt Lake, a distance of over fifteen hundred
miles.
	Besides doing the washing and cooking on the
trip, she drove the horse team a good share of the
way
	This family traveling nearly alone across the
plains landed at their destination on the 27th of
August 1854, and in the following spring moved to
Spanish Fork, where she resided until the time of
her death, October 26, 1900.
	She passed through all the trials incident to set-
tling a hew country in a desert, and when the
Relief Society was first organized at Spanish Fork
in the year 1857, she was chosen as its president,
which office she continued to fill for fourteen
years, and labored in the silk industry for eighteen
years.
	She was very zealous in laboring in the Temples
for her dead relatives and friends, many of whom
had been her former revilers. She was a woman
of great courage, having faced the drawn arrow of
a savage when alone, without flinching, while she
totally unarmed, continued to chide him for his
rascality and cowardice until he sneaked away like
a cowardly cur.
	For over sixty-eight years she lived in the full
light of the Gospel, and always bore a strong testi-
monp of its truth and of the divinity of the mission
of Joseph Smith.
	After a very active life of nearly eighty-five
years she has passed to her reward, leaving behind
her a numerous posterity of three generations to
mourn her departure, and it may well be said of
her:

	You’ve been a friend to man,
		Prophets and beggars can
	This truth declare,
		For often at your board,
	Your morsel they have shared,
		Their blessing your reward
	And welcome were.

	And now, in Spirit land, 
		Your friends around you stand,
	A Savior meet,
		They’ll take you by the hand,
	While tears of joy descend,
		Their ridicule be turned
	To praises sweet.

