		PUEBLO, COLORADO.

	The Relief Society of Pueblo, Colorado
celebrated the second anniversary of the
organization, on Tuesday, December 4,
1900. It had been organized two years on
July 3, but on account of sickness and
deaths, we concluded to put it off for
awhile. The sisters arranged a program to
be followed by refreshments. The admit-
tance was by invitation, and the hall was
quite comfortably filled.
	President Lizzie Hart welcomed the
guests, of whom a great number do not be-
long to our faith but attend meetings
regularly, we had given them invitations
and President Hart gave each gentleman a
white buttonhole Bouquet souvenir.
	First Counselor Amanda Coleman took
charge of the program. The sisters whose
names were on the program all did their
parts well. Several of the brethren spoke
and said they were certainly surprised at
the growth of the society, which now num-
bers three times as many as when it was
organized; also our Bishop, John T. Hart
was present and he spoke briefly on the
organization of our Relief Society and gave
us some good instructions which were very
encouraging to the sisters. While refresh-
ments were being laid on the tables by
Counselor Lillie Coleman, assisted by
Treasurer Turner, John Sessions and Sister
Sarah Hall, President Harts's son, Willie,
entertained the company with selections on
the phonograph. After the tables were
spread with every bounty that heart could
desire the guests were waited upon by three
charming young sisters, Martha and Maud
Hall and Bessie Coleman, assisted by
Brother Carl Frank Coleman, James T.
Johnson and Claude Betenburger.
	After supper there was singing by the
company, and they each laid every care
aside and expressed themselves as feeling
that it was the most enjoyable affair that
they had attended, which greatly encouraged
the sisters of the society, as every one had
worked faithfully to make it a success.
	Benediction was pronounced and all left
for their homes feeling happy.
AMANDA COLEMAN, Asst. Sec.
[column 2]
