[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
GRANITE STAKE.
(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session, November 10, 1901,
Counselor Mary P. Young presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O say what is
truth.” Prayer by Sister Armeda S.
Young. Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read and approved.
	Sister Young said, “We will now hear
the reports.”
	President M. E. Porter of Granger re-
ported her society in good condition; Presi-
dent Charlotte Neilson, of Hunter, reported
her society in a lively condition; President
Mary Parker, of South Taylorsville,
gave a good report; Counselor Louisa

[Column 2]
Cummings, of Wilford, reported the recent
organization of that ward and spoke of the
energy of the officers and members. The
number of teachers was eight and members
fifty. Counselor Julia Jensen, Big Cotton-
wood Ward, reported her society as making
it a practise of visiting those who were not
able to come out and holding meetings
in their homes.
	President M. I. Horne said: ‘I feel very
thankful, my brethren and sisters, to be at
your conference. I have visited among
you for about twenty years. I was very
much pleased with the minutes of your last
conference. You have excellent officers in
the Granite Stake, both men and women,
of God. I cannot say one thing to you of
benefit unless prompted by the spirit of the
Lord.” She was pleased with the remarks
of the president as they were timely and to
the point. “By our daily course we are
judged; our acts and thoughts are all open
to our Heavenly Father, the angels are
silent notes taking. As Brother Bennion
said this morning, 'We are here in a school,
we are to take our tabernacle and be proven
in this school by trials and tribulations.
How was it with Job?’ I often wonder
how it was that Satan was allowed to so
afflict and try him. Job was an upright
and just man.” Sister Horne spoke
earnestly and very interestingly upon the
trials of Job and his integrity, and said, “I
wonder why so many of our sisters stay
away from meetings? There is a book kept
of our record and another one is to be
opened, if we are so lucky as to have our
names recorded on the Lamb’s book of life,
we must arouse ourselves and have our
lamps trimmed and burning.” Spoke feel-
ingly on the sermon of President Cannon
concerning the coming of the Savior. The
signs of the times, said false spirits will
come among the people and teach false
doctrines. “When you see these signs
know the time is drawing nigh. Read the
Prophet Isaiah, it is full of prophesy con-
cerning these days.” Urged the young peo-
ple to read this book, especially the third
chapter. Quoted from Daniel and said the
prophecies of the Prophet Joseph Smith are
coming to pass daily. Drew our minds to
the condition of many of our people today
and their slackness. The Lord calls, per-
suades but forces no man to heaven. Felt
that the sisters had been too careless about
the wheat and the need of their waking up
and being more energetic concerning this
most important duty. “The time is coming
when those who will not take up their
sword against their neighbor must flee to
Zion. President Woodruff told us at the
dedication of the Temple that the sword
would be unsheathed and would reap down
the nations. The scriptures say, ‘I will
send them the truth, and if they do not ac-
cept it, I will send them fables.’ ” Refer-
red to the rebelion of Satan when he drew
one third of the hosts of heaven with him.
What would we have been if the Lord had
not organized the Relief Society through
the Prophet Joseph? We should have
been groveling with earthly things and
working at home not improving the spirit-
ual by attending these meetings. The
Prophet Joseph in his time said this society
would flourish and grow until it became
one of the greatest on the earth.
	Sister Horne then mentioned the Fairs
the Relief Society had in the early days and
the amount of means that had been raised
in this way. Encouraged the sisters to

[Column 3]
take hold of these things. She hoped that
 the sisters would take good care of the
wheat; flour should also be kept. She had
eaten bread made from flour kept for four-
teen years and it was sweet. Prayed that
the Lord would bless the officers and
Bishopric of the Stake who spend their time
in doing good. “May the Lord bless
you, sisters, and the Lord will bless you in
as much as you are faithful.”
	Winnefred Tibbs then pleased the congre-
gation with one of her interesting recita-
tions.
	Counselor Brockbank made some very
pleasing remarks and said many of the
wards would do well to pattern after Sister
Neff’s society. She enjoyed Brother Ben-
nion’s remarks, that by living up to our
duties we should receive blessings.”
	Treasurer Maria B. Winder felt a desire to
do all the good she could and felt an in-
terest in Relief Society work since travel-
ing among the sisters. Thought we should
pray in the assemblies. She spoke of the
Temple work and the good it had done her.
	Sister Armeda S. Young bore testimony
to her love of the Gospel.
	Counselor Mary P. Young made closing
remarks. “Two features that interested
me particularly were the reports of the two
extreme wards: one reported of their success-
ful Fair work, the other reporting of the
sisters of her society going to comfort with
words of cheer and encouraging with
their presence the afflicted ones who could
not attend their meetings. The world looks
upon death with fear. Related a story told
to the Primary children that showed so
beautifully the reason we should not fear
death, but always feel to say, “Thy will
not mine be done.” Spoke of some when
they had sickness feeling to rebel at their
condition and the spirit of darkness crept
over them and made them feel horrible.
But when they were resigned to God and
willing to say “Thy will not mine be
done,” peace would come to them. Sister
Young related numbers of instances of
mothers rebelling and the sorrows that
came to them. She then announced the
next conference to be held in three months.
Said Sister Woodruff wanted the mission-
aries to report at the next officers’ meeting.
Singing, “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.” Benediction by Counselor
Bennion.
