[Column 1]
SIXTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	The third anniversary of the Sixth Ward
Relief Society, held in commemoration of
the first organization by our beloved
prophet, Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Ill.,
was held in the Sixth ward Assembly Hall,
March 18th, 1901, at 2 o’clock p. m., Presi-
dent West presiding, Counselors Ellen R.
West and Alice Butterworth assisting.
On the stand were Bishop James C. Wat-
son, Counselor Allen Burt, Patriarch Jesse
West, Brothers Arnold G. Giauque, James
Latham, Carl A. Ek, Thomas Green, Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A., Albert Reiser
and Organist Jane Poulton.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer by Bishop James C.
Watson. Singing, “How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President West felt grateful for the pres-
ence of the brethren and sisters with us on
this occasion to celebrate the anniversary of
the first organization of the Relief Society
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Spoke of the
noble work the Relief Society was doing,
the growth of this work. Many noble
women are heart and soul in this work.
Much good had been done, the poor had
been relieved, the sick ministered to. Our
Heavenly Father blessed us in our labors.
Spoke of the importance of assisting with
our means towards the building of a Relief
Society hall, where the sisters could meet.
	Sister Hickenlooper said the first princi-
ple taught to her after embracing the Gos-
pel was obedience. This she had tried to
observe. When we are humble and will-
ing to be obedient to those in authority
over us, the Lord blesses us. Gave a brief
sketch of the first Relief Society work in
the Sixth Ward. Though they were not
properly organized, yet several sisters were
noble women endeavoring to alleviate the
sufferings of the poor and sick. She, with
Sister Robins, Sister West and many others,
were untiring in their efforts in visiting,
cheering and ministering to those in need.
	Sister Pugh felt to sustain the presiding
officers in regard to erecting a Relief Soci-
ety hall where all can meet. Prayed the
Lord to open up her way, that she might
donate her mite in assisting in this worthy
cause. “We sisters feel that it is an aim
worthy of our means and we should sustain
those over us in such a noble effort. Let
us endeavor to keep the commandments of
God better in the future than in the past.
	Sister Caroline F. Fulmer left home when
quite a girl for the Gospel and never felt to
regret so doing. Her parents came some
time afterward. Had been associated with
many noble women who were earnest work-
ers in the Relief Society, Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith being one of them. Said,
“Her teachings have made me a better
woman, she taught me true principles.”
	Bishop James C. Watson spoke of the
kindness of Sister Hickenlooper to him dur-
ing the time of the move to Provo.
Spoke of the integrity of President West,
her faith in the servants of God and in the
administration, being raised from sickness
to health able to perform her duties. Spoke
of the indifference of some of the sisters in
attending Relief Society meetings. Said
this room should be filled today. Spoke of

[Column 2]
the progress the sisters were making. The
Prophet Joseph in organizing the Relief
Society did not realize the magnitude of
this grand work. Desired soon to have a
better hall for the brethren and sisters to
meet in. Invoked the blessing of the Lord
on all present.
	Patriarch Jesse West said one year ago
we met on a similar occasion. We breth-
ren are interested with the sisters in this
work. Spoke of the good instructions
given in this hall a short time ago by
Apostle Cowley, also of the necessity of the
organization of Y. L. M. I. A. and other
auxiliaries of the Church for the benefit of
the youth. The Lord in His wisdom in-
spired the presidency of the Church to or-
ganize these associations to inspire the
young. Spoke of the indifference of many
in living up to their privileges. The Lord
inspired the Prophet Joseph Smith to or-
ganize the Relief Society. We are all in-
terested in this grand and noble work with
them, they are ministers of peace, taking
words of comfort to the suffering, assisting
the poor. Referred to the integrity and
unity of the sisters and the progress of the
work of the Lord.
	Counselor Alexander Burt had recently
visited with them in their meeting, enjoyed
himself very much. The Spirit of the Lord
was in their midst. Was requested by
President West to speak to the sisters at
that meeting, felt well while so doing.
Spoke of the noble work they were doing,
also of the bad effects of evil speaking; the
care we should have in speaking of each
other, not try to hurt each other’s feelings.
All are not constituted alike, let us be wise
in these things. Seek for wisdom from our
Heavenly Father, that we may see aright.
	Elder Arnold Giauque spoke of the mag-
nitude of the work which had been done by
the sisters. When the angel of death enters
into a family, they are ministers of peace to
cheer and comfort the bereaved, to clothe our
dear ones who are called home in suitable
robes. “I have received of their kindness
at a time of this kind. I appreciated it
more than I can express. None are exempt
from shortcomings and weaknesses. Is the
Lord to blame for this? No. But He has
opened a way for us to retrieve them, if we
live up to the principles of the Gospel we
shall learn to overcome them. I have seen
a man’s life so changed after he had received
the Gospel in its truth and purity that he
was not like the same man, so changed
were his acts and course in life. He was
full of love for the Gospel.” Spoke of the
magnitude of this Latter-day work. Invoked 
the blessings of our Heavenly Father on the
society.
	Brother James Latham spoke of the anni-
versary of the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
of the integrity of President West with
whom he had been acquainted over forty-
one years. In every capacity he had found
her faithful in ministering to the sick,
cheering those who were cast down; she
never faltered. Counselor Alice Butterworth
he had also known forty-seven years ago,
from her childhood. She had been highly
favored of the Lord with abundant means,
and she had extended the hand of charity
and kindness to many. Such acts of kind-
ness were not openly known. The Prophet
Joseph in organizing the Relief Society was
inspired of the Lord. He did not foresee
fully the magnitude of this work the grand
effects it has produced it does not reach

[Column 3]
alone to the several Stakes of Zion but it
has grown till it extends to the islands of
the sea, and wherever the Gospel has been
preached there also is the Relief Society,
and it will continue to grow.
	Brother Thomas Green spoke of the in-
tegrity of President West, also of the sisters
connected with the Relief Society. Did
not believe in class distinction. The Lord
blessed the poor, spoke of them in His ser-
mon. He himself came of humble birth,
this teaches us humility. We should be
ministers of peace to cheer the distressed,
alleviate the wants of the poor. Endorsed
the sentiments of the former speakers.
	Brother Carl A. Ek said he had come to
meet with the sisters in honor of the first
organization. Referred to a painful acci-
dent a brother had met with, also his ad-
verse circumstances. Spoke of the sym-
pathy and kindness of the Bishop, also the
president of the Relief Society. Spoke of
his busy life thus being deprived to a great
extent of the society of his wife and family.
Said, “The society is doing a noble work.
My wife is a teacher in the Relief Society
and feels well in the performance of her
duties.
	Sister Ek was pleased to be one with her
sisters in this society. Felt blest in per-
forming her duty and spoke of her recent
sickness.
	Sister Swenson also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth, was blest in performing
her duties.
	Brother Albert Reiser said he was pleased
to meet to celebrate the anniversary of the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Spoke of the respect he had for these sis-
ters; also of the magnitude of their work
and the great good they were performing,
alleviating the suffering and pain of the
sick. His mother was connected with the
society, it was through her faith and pray-
ers in his behalf during a severe illness he
had, that convinced him of the truth of the
Gospel and he received a testimony of the
same. The sisters have a right to minister
to the sick, and in this they will not over-
reach their authority. Spoke of their faith
and prayers in ministering to the sick, and
the benefit and consolation he had derived
during his mother’s sickness, and after her
death they were there to cheer, comfort and
prepare and clothe her in proper robes. The
young ladies are beginning to see and real-
ize the importance of the Relief Society and
to honor the sisters in their calling.
	Bishop James C. Watson made closing
remarks. Benediction by Patriarch Jesse
West.
	The evening was spent in a social dance.
