L. D. S. BUILDING DEDICATED.
	The Latter-day Saints new Business
College was formally dedicated with appro-
priate ceremonies on Thursday, February
7, 1901, exercises commencing at 2 p. m.
	The assembly room was handsomely dec-
orated, the stand with flowers and bunting
in red, white and blue, and flags suitably
draped. Portraits of the First Presidency
in a group were hung above the stand, and
on the wall either side being photographs of
Dr. Maeser and the Board of Education.
	Many palms and pots of flowers in bloom
adorned the window seats.
	The exercises opened with a quartette,
“Alma Mater,” Lizzie Thomas Edwards,
Mabel Cooper, Thomas Ashworth and H.
S. Ensign. Prayer was offered, after that
a trio, Mabel Cooper, Thomas Ashworth
and H. S. Ensign, followed with an
address by President Lorenzo Snow and
a song, “My Valley Home,” Mrs. Edwards
and quartette.
	Presentation speech, Chairman Building
Committee, Bishop Geo. Romney. Accept-
ance, Hon. Angus M. Cannon, Chairman
Board of Trustees. Piano solo, Prof. J. J.
McClellan. Dedicatory prayer, President
Geo. Q. Cannon. Singing, “America,” by
the students. Future of the College glow-
ingly portrayed by Elder J. E. Taylor. Flag
Presentation by S. H. Derbyshire, student,
also one of the Utah Volunteers. Acceptance
of the Flag, Prof. J. H. Paul. Singing,
“The Star Spangled Banner.” Benediction
by Hon. Brigham Young.
	The ceremonies were all impressive and
the remarks were well chosen as “apples
of gold in pictures of silver.” The dedi-
catory prayer was a masterpiece of its kind,
if the term is admissible.
	The banquet below to which so many
hundreds sat down was tastefully arranged,
one wondered where so many sweet violets
had been found in February, and the sim-
plicity of style manifest is a reccommend to
the college girls, and in much better taste
than a more elaborate menu would have
been.
	Music and dancing continued until mid-
night with the young students and their
friends.
	The success of the Building Committee
has been beyond the most ardent expecta-
tions when the plan was first devised to
build immediately after the land had been
donated. May the College prosper as brisk-
ly and successfully and the students achieve
unprecedented success along all useful


lines of education, and may the spirit that
brooded over the dedication ever remain
within those walls, that the young people
may be inspired to pursue the noblest course
of life, cultivating the highest virtues, truth,
honesty and uprightness, integrity, patriot-
sm and chivalry, until it shall be said as
prophesied of old:
	“That our sons may be as plants grown
in their youth; that our daughters may be
as corner-stones, polished after the simili-
tude of a palace.”


