[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall at 10
a. m., Dec. 1, 1900. Officers present on
the stand were Counselors Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C Cannon, Presidents B. W.
Smith, S. J. Cannon, M. W. Wilcox, E. J.
Stevenson, J. C. Howe. President Horne
absent, not very well.
	Meeting called to order by Counselor
Hyde. Opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Prayer by Counselor Clara
C. Cannon. Singing, “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.”
	The roll was called, a good representation
being present. Minutes of conference held
Sep. 8, read and approved.
	The presidents were then called upon for
reports, especially regarding the building
fund. All the wards were reported that had
a representative present, and all expressed a
willingness to do whatever was required of
them. Quite a number of the societies have
a reserve fund and all felt the need of a
central building and were more than willing
to work and use every means to accomplish
this end.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke on the same
subject. She felt sure that the amount
could be raised to build a comfortable build-
ing. Asked all the societies to please send
in the amount they felt it possible for
them to donate.
	Sister Howe felt that the sisters who had
reported had exhibited a spirit of humility
and obedience. Gave a very interesting
account of her work in the Relief Society
from its first organization in this city. It is
usually the poor that help the poor, and
those who are wealthy are not so liberal. “I
have been promised to live to see this new
building dedicated and I am enthusiastic
over it, and hope we will work energetically
to accomplish the good work.”
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Closed
by singing “Come let us anew.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Augusta W. Grant.
	Afternoon session. President Horne
being unable to attend Counselor Annie T.
Hyde presided assisted by Clara C. Cannon.
	Meeting opened by singing “Arise, O
glorious Zion.” Prayer by Sister Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “Let those who would be
Saints indeed.” Minutes of the previous
conference of September 8, 1900, were read
and accepted.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said she felt
it is good to be a Saint. Thought our chil-
dren had great privileges, how careful we
should be as mothers, that our children may
never have to suffer for our evil acts.
Thanked the Lord for inspiring Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith to organize this society. Spoke of
the perseverance of the sisters in the differ-
ent wards in building halls and granaries,
helping the poor and many other things.
Spoke of the unity that existed among the
sisters and thought we should be united in
building this new central building. Hoped
the presidents and officers of the society
would be inspired to know how to accumu-
late means to erect it.
	Sister Annie L. Johnson began by reading
from the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
45th chapter. She was for thirty years an
invalid. There are three things to be
understood: abdominal breathing, relax-
ation and a thorough knowledge of hygiene
and we can overcome disease. She believed
in simple remedies. If we gain knowledge
pertaining to ourselves we can overcome
every disease. Realized we should believe
intensely when we pray. President Snow
had told her to visit the different wards and
teach the sisters how to care for their
bodies, said she would be pleased to have
any one visit her, and would talk with them
on these subjects.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said she felt pleased
with the spirit made manifest by the presi-
dents in the reports this morning. Read an
extract from the third Relief Society meet-
ing held April 28, 1842. President Joseph
Smith gave the Relief Society a lecture
and told the sisters that they would be able
to heal the sick and gave them special
instructions. Referred to 1 Cor. 12th chap-
ter. He spoke of the jealousies among the
officers. Said the signs spoken of by Christ
in healing the sick, etc., applied as well to
the sisters as the brethren. There is no sin
in the women laying on hands for the heal-
ing of the sick, said there were aspiring
men, and this society would be troubled in
the same way. Exhorted the sisters to sus-
tain their husbands and to put down ini-
quity. Said “You cannot go too fast when
in the path of virtue. This is a charitable
society, it is natural for women to be inter-
ested in such work. If you are pure you
can come into the presence of God. Don’t
think yourselves more religious than others.
Let your hearts be enlarged towards others.
You will be instructed by the priesthood
from time to time. I now turn the keys for
woman. Don’t envy the show and finery
of others, for they are fleeting. Do not in-
dulge too much in the gift of tongues.”
Said the sick should be nourished with mild
herbs, and there is no one better qualified to
do this than the sisters.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she was
in the lodge room above the brick store in
Nauvoo when President Smith gave these
instructions.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said she needed to
come to the Relief Society to get the spirit
of the meeting. She knew the spirit of the
Lord was with them in the society. She
knew the women of the world had felt the
spirit of women’s organizations ever since
Joseph Smith first organized this society.
Said she believed we should use more of
our blessed oil, the Lord knew what was
good for us. Said she thought women
should claim all the blessings due to them,
believed there was more happiness in the
world than sorrow. Heard President Snow
said we should aim to live a hundred years.
Believed all scourges are the fulfilling of
prophecy.
	Annie T. Hyde said we should all
exercise faith for President Horne. Said
the new nurse course numbered 42. Said let
us try to keep the love of God in our hearts. 

[Column 2]
	President S. J. Cannon made some
practical remarks about the Woman’s
Building and encouraged the sisters in
striving to do their part.
	Sister Hyde said the conference would
now be adjourned for three months. In
four weeks would be the officers meeting,
and in two weeks the Retrenchment meeting.
	Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet.” Benediction by Julia S.
Woolley.
		J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec. pro tem.


