[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR AND NEW CENTURY.
	A Happy New Year and New Century to 
all our readers and patrons and to the pub-
lic generally. Many peculiar emotions are 
awakened, and half-forgotten memories of 
long ago called up on entering, not only the 
new year, (so often done before) but the 
new century, the last of the two thousand
years since the birth of the Savior.
	Greetings from great writers, and great 
leaders, heroes, statesmen and authors have 
been sent out to the world in a spirit of love 
and good-will, and one may assume from 
this that the world is in greater harmony 
as a whole than ever before.
	It is good to pause sometimes on the ap-
proach of a given period and take one’s self
into consideration, and ascertain if possible 
how one stands toward the world as re-
gards humanity at large. Whether the 
Golden Rule is being observed or if there is 
a nearer approach to loving one’s neighbor. 
	To examine one’s own heart is good for 
us all, if we will be as exact with ourselves 
as we would be with others. We are cer-
tainly living in a wonderful age, and it be-
hooves us to do our part well in the great
program that has been prepared for the 
Latter-day dispensation.
	The prophecy of the future as we read it 
in the sacred books that have been written 
by inspired men in the different periods of 
time in the past, all point to the day in 
which we live. Already the Saints have 
accomplished much temporally in building 
Temples in which sacred rites and ordinan-
ces are being solemnized for the living and 
for the dead; and ere many decades in the 
new century have come and gone, the greater 
Temple in Jackson County will be built and 
dedicated. Meantime great events will 
transpire that will facilitate the progress of 
the work of the Church.
	Poetry, music and art are being developed 
in the highest sense, and all these as well 
as mechanism of great variety and the ut-
most perfection will be essential to complete 
the Latter-day Zion. Skilled artisans in all 
kinds of workmanship are essential to the 
building up of Zion.
	Who of the young people of today are 
preparing themselves for such positions of 
usefulness? Every advantage of higher 
education is open to those who are ambi-
tious to make themselves proficient along 
the new avenues of engineering and similar 
pursuits, which require not only specific

[Column 2]
training but common sense put to use with 
the knowledge obtained. One of the ablest 
men of the present day predicts that the 
man of this new century will be the en-
gineer.
	The construction of all great railroads,
canals, bridges, fortifications and all such 
great enterprises require the thorough work 
of the engineer. The world is to come into
closer connection by these great under-
takings. 
	The manual training now being made a
part of the curriculum of the schools and 
colleges, will assuredly give the physique,
the strength of muscle and sinew, the 
physical development such as has not been 
known heretofore; and it will be needed in 
the great problems that are being presented 
in the industrial progress of the American 
nation. Steam, electricity and dynamo are 
the agents that will be most in evidence in 
the great work yet to be executed, and 
these require skilled masters as well as 
workmen. No doubt the first quarter of a 
century will give an assurance of such 
mighty problems solved as those now living 
have never dreamed could be wrought out.
	The great reforms that have been started 
in the Nineteenth century will possibly—
yes probably—find their fulfillment in this 
new century before it is half completed; 
for instance, International Arbitration, and 
various governmental improvements which 
must necessarily follow along with the 
humanitarian views that are being agitated 
and advocated for the betterment of mankind.
	The outlook for the future is most hope-
ful when one considers the great strides that 
have already been made during the last 
half of this century in more directions than 
it is possible to name in these pages. The
light and knowledge that has come by direct 
revelation through the prophets and seers of 
these latter days, has blest the world and 
lifted up mankind far more than they are 
themselves aware of or able to appreciate
	Yet there is much to be done that will 
require almost superhuman efforts, and to 
this people particularly, who believe the 
second advent of the Savior is not far off,
there is no time to waste if the Saints are to 
be ready for His coming. The Gospel has 
not yet reached every nation, and thousands 
of Elders will yet go to foreign lands to 
proclaim the tidings of great joy to the peo-
ple that sit in darkness, that the scriptures
may be fulfilled; and the way is being 
opened up in ways of which we had not 
dreamed in the past. The Republic of 
America that guarantees religious liberty is 
extending its borders afar off, and the end 
is not yet and we venture the prediction 
that other lands will yet come under her 
flag, and without war or bloodshed, but be-
cause of the freedom and liberty vouchsafed 
under the glorious Constitution framed by 
our forefathers.


