[Column 1]
ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of the semi-annual conference of
the Relief Society of Oneida Stake, held in
the Preston meeting house, November 10,
1900, President Louisa B. Benson presiding. 
Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer was offered by President
Susan Grant, of Davis County. Singing,
“O, say what is truth.” Roll called, show-
ing, of Stake Board, President Louisa B.
Benson, Second Counselor Hannah Mickle-
sen and Secretary Elise B. Alder. First
Counselor Martha Lawiscli had been called
to Provo on account of death in the family.
Local presidents, ten answered and one sent
a written report.
	Minutes of the morning session of last
conference were read and approved.
	Of the priesthood there were present,
President George C. Parkinson and Brother
Peter Micklesen, of Weston; Bishop George
T. Benson and Brother William Tanner, of
Whitney.
	President Louisa B. Benson asked for the
sympathy and prayers of the sisters. Re-
ported the Stake Board as united, holding
officers’ meetings monthly also hold meet-
ing s quarterly with local officers. “We have
thirteen branches of the Relief Society. At
our last meeting ail the local presidents
were present but three. Since that time I
have met two of these, so that I can report
all the branches of the society but one,
Treasureton, expect to visit that one the
coming Monday. All are doing fairly well.
The attendance at the meetings is not what
we would like it to be, but hope the sisters
will awaken to the necessity of doing their
duty. Some have been very energetic,
having accomplished more work during the
past few months than ever before. This has
especially been the case with Preston
and Franklin. The presidents are ener-
getic and willing to do their duty. There
is a spirit of improvement manifest in our
officers’ meetings. President Susan Grant,
one of the General Board, is with us today,
has kindly come to accompany us in our
tour around the Stake to visit all the
branches. Brother Nuttall was expected,
but owing to circumstances over which he
had no control, had to postpone his visit un-
til next spring. Sister Grant and myself
have visited four branches since we met in
Franklin last Thursday, and we expect to
continue after conference until we have
held meetings with all.”
	Sister Grant said: “It is not good to talk
of our weaknesses, it gives the adversary
power over us. She was pleased to see the
priesthood with us. Had felt blessed in
visiting this Stake so far, had met so many
good brothers and sisters. It is our mission
to administer comfort to our sisters. Teach-
ers should be faithful, so that when visiting
they can stimulate others to faithfulness.
Spoke of the training of children. We
should always be subject to those who are
placed over us. The Prophet Joseph Smith
said that the duty of the Relief Society
was to save souls and to encourage their
husbands in the performance of their duties,

[Column 2]
as well as to look after the poor and afflicted.
Spoke of the law of tithing, it has been
neglected in the past, and the Lord has
been displeased with us. Spoke of the
storing of grain. Felt to reverence the
priesthood of God.
	A vocal solo, “Should you feel inclined
to censure,” was given by Sister Dora
Geddes.
	Counselor Hannah Micklesen expressed
her willingness to do whatever she was
called to do by those who are placed over
her. Thought the Relief Society was a
benefit to all.
	Sister Nellie Parkinson recited, with
much feeling, “A Thread of Thought,”
composed by Sister L. G. Richards.
	President George C. Parkinson was
pleased to be with us. He had enjoyed
the timely remarks of Sister Grant. What
glorious opportunities we have, how
wonderfully we have progressed. Referred
to the beautiful recitation given and en-
couraged mothers to trust in the Lord.
	President L. Benson spoke of the beauties
of motherhood. We have heavy burdens to
bear, but we take up our cross and are
thankful that we have been permitted to
live in this day, if we can only see our
children serving the Lord. The subject of
Sabbath breaking had just come to her
mind. Are we raising Sabbath breakers?
As mothers are we setting an example
worthy of imitation in this respect? Are
we trying to prepare for the Sabbath the
day before, that the Sunday may be a day
of rest and still our children be cared for?
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. Sing-
ing, “Lo the mighty God appearing.”
Benediction by Brother Peter Mickelson.
	Afternoon session, two o’clock p. m
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by
Brother Joseph Geddes. Singing, “How
firm a foundation.” Minutes of the after-
noon session of last conference were read
and accepted. A circular letter from the
General Beard concerning the conjoint
building to be erected in Salt Lake City for
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary, was read by the secretary. Presi-
dent Benson fully explained the same. The
General and Stake Relief Society officers
were sustained.
	Vocal solo, “Daughters of Zion,” by
Lula B. Parkinson.
	Sister Grant said: “We always have to
depend on the Lord when we speak.” She
had enjoyed the singing. Encouraged the
mothers to teach their children to sing and
told of Apostle Heber J. Grant’s persever-
ance in learning to sing. She had lived in
the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
looked forward with pleasure to the time
when she would meet him again and be
recognized by him. Related some instances
of her early life in the Church. Encouraged
the keeping of the Word of Wisdom. Spoke
of and explained the ten cent fund. Gave
an interesting outline of the plans of the
conjoint building, explained its objects and
how much it was needed by the daughters
of Zion. Bishop John Larsen, of Preston,
felt well in meeting with us, found the sis-

[Column 3]
ters to be better Latter-day Saints than the
brethren. He had enjoyed the remarks.
	President Joseph Geddes always enjoyed
hearing the sisters speak, especially those
who had lived in the time of the Prophet
Joseph. This is a work of great magnitude,
the sisters seem awake to their calling.
	Sister Phebe McNeil, President of Fair-
view Relief Society, spoke a short time.
She had been much pleased with the in-
structions we had received during the con-
ference, especially wtth what had been said
in regard to Sabbath breaking.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Come thou glorious day of
promise.” Benediction by Brother Joseph
Geddes.
