LOUIE B. FELT.

	The nineteenth century may be called the
century of Liberty and Light.
	Although the announcement of the birth
of Liberty was in 1776, it was scarcely en-
throned until the nineteenth century.
	On the soil of Liberty the intellect of
men and women was encouraged, protected
and permitted to unfold and increase in the
arts and sciences ornamental and practical.
Steam in all its possibilities was developed
and shot forth on rivers and seas, making
the nations neighbors.
	The wonders of electricity are lighting
and linking the whole world by its mighty
and various powers. The inimitable Light
of Truth in all its effulgence of authority
and power descended from heaven and
planted its feet on earth no more to be
overcome and flee, but to overcome all evil
and bring gradually all good men and
women into the perfect life. Slavery lifted
its Medusa head in the South, but
Liberty enthroned in the North gave forth
the edict for it to depart and it fled the land.
	Tyranny in Cuba with its mailed hand
was striking terror and death over all its
fair land till Liberty could no longer shut
the hideous sight from her eyes nor close
her ears to the cry of the oppressed, and
she thundered Halt to Spain, the oppressor,
and with swift showers of shot and shell
(the only available language to convince
her of her errors) quickly shattered her
chains of bondage. Cuba, Porto Rico and
the Phillipines, will now enjoy the
blessings of Liberty, so soon as the benighted
minds of her inhabitants can perceive the
great boon offered them.
	The harpoons of the natives have been
firmly fastened in the dreadful soul-
devouring Dragon, China, where tyranny
and oppression have reached the climax,
and its door will be thrown wide open for
the ingress of light, law and civilization, the
forerunners of the establishment of truth.
The British lion has laid his paw on unpro-
gressive Africa for the same purpose.
	In view of these great beginnings of
the nineteenth century what developments

[Column 2]
shall we look for in the twentieth?
	Turkey will be plucked and prepared for
the feast of law and order. The helpless,
the needy, the down-trodden and oppressed
of all nations will be fed, comforted and
instructed and lifted up into light, law,
civilization and truth, in fact, a great ad-
vance towards, if not the accomplishment
will be achieved on the earth of the
Fatherhood and Motherhood of God and
the Brotherhood of men.
