THE GREAT AND GOOD QUEEN VICTORIA. 	

The death of Queen Victoria has caused
not only sincere sorrow and deep and heart-
felt mourning in Great Britain, but there is
a universal feeling in all the civilized world
that the greatest sovereign of her time has
departed. In fact she is spoken of as the
greatest without making comparisons. Not
only queen of Great Britain and Ireland,
and colonies attached thereto, but Empress
of India. Her life reads like a fable almost,
so grand have been her virtues and so
numerous the honors that have come to her
unsought by herself. So magnificently has
she reigned that it has been hard for those
who envied her (and indeed they were few)
to find any grounds of complaint either in
her public or private life, and her name will
go down through the ages as the good, pure
and true Queen Victoria. This is the more
remarkable when one considers how very
long her reign has been, longer than any
other king or queen who has sat upon the
British throne.
	The reading public are everywhere in-
formed that her death occurred at Osborne
House, on the Isle of Wight, January 22,
6:30 a. m. The Prince of Wales dispatch to
the Lord-Mayor of London reads:
	“My beloved mother has just passed away
surrounded by her children and grandchildren.
(Signed) Albert Edward. 
The Lord-Mayor’s reply was.
“Your Imperial Highness’ telegram an-

[Column 2]
nouncing the nations great loss I have re-
ceived with profound distress and grief, and
have communicated this most sad intimation
to my fellow citizens. Her majesty’s name
and memory will forever live in the hearts of
her people.
	“May I respectfully convey to your royal
highness and to all members of the royal
family the earnest sympathy and condolence
of the city of London in your great sorrow.”
	The queen is said to have bade farewell in
a feeble monosyllable to her family assembled
at her bedside at mid-day. She first recog-
nized the Prince of Wales to whom she
spoke a few words of great moment; then
Emperor William and the others present filed
past and heard a whispered good bye. All
those in the bedroom were in tears.
	Volumes might and will undoubtedly be
written of this celebrated sovereign and most
excellent woman; but nevertheless in a great
kingdom like the British Empire order must
be preserved, and therefore another monarch,
even though he be bowed in grief, must be
proclaimed, and the regular routine observed.
	“London, January 23, 1 p. m. The King
Emperor entered his capital at 12:55 and pro-
ceeded to Marlborough House where at the
meeting of the privy council the king took
the title of Edward VII, king of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and
emperor of India.
	After attending the first privy council at St.
James palace, at 2 p. m., when a decision will
be reached regarding the public proclamation
of his accession, which, it is expected, will be
read tomorrow at 10 a. m., his majesty will
proceed to the house of lords for the meeting
of parliament.
	London has donned a garb of mourning
from end to end and an early hour found a
thick fog enveloping the city like a pall, a
fitting accompaniment of the funeral apparel
of every one. Throughout the west end
drawn blinds are the order of the day, while
on all the embassies, government offices and
public buildings the flags are half-masted. The
law courts, the stock exchange and all the
produce and metal exchanges throughout the
country only assemble to close immediately
after the presiding officers had addressed to
the members a few words of tribute to the
dead monarch.”
