		LELLA MARLER.

	Was her earthly mission finished? God
knows best! He who is infinite, He who
is wise has again received His beautiful
flower, His bright jewel—and now we
shall see sweet Mima’s face and form no
more.
	Young and noble and happy and beauti-
ful, Oh, yes, divinely beautiful! The
loveliness of her soul was portrayed in her
countenance. Pure and good as the angels
in heaven.
	But disease is stern and pitiless, and in
all his hideousness he siezed upon our dear
one. Science and skill were of no avail;
fervent prayers were not heeded. Slowly
she faded, patient and faithful to the last.
The final spark of life died out, and there
she lay, in her marble beauty, a faint smile
still lingering on her face—dead.
	God had called her spirit to another
sphere, and with great effort we whispered,
“Thy will be done.”
	She was buried in the little churchyard.
Only a tiny mound dedicated to God and
laden with nature’s sweetest flowers, that
is all; and yet a home has lost its brightest
hope, its dearest comfort, its sweetest joy.
A village has lost its ministering angel.
The world has lost a queen, and in heaven
a priestess is welcomed.
	She came to earth like a bright sunbeam,
shedding rays of love and hope on all who
came within her radius. Her influence,
unlike the sunbeam’s, was so luminous
that its light will never cease, but will be- 
come brighter and warmer day by day; and
live on in the hearts of some, as stars of hope
leading them on to nobler, better deeds,
through time and through eternity.
	Her book of life is written. Not one
page is stained with a dark or fearful deed.
Every chapter contains some beautiful
thought, some high desire, some encourag-
ing whisper or some worthy deed.
	To know her was to love her. To be in her
presence was an incentive to seek a nobler,
better way of living. She carried hope
with her. Her sweet, musical voice com-
forted you always; her low, gentle words
cheered all who heard them; her bright
smile cast fears and worries aside, her
gentle touch banished pain.
	And now she is gone! A sad chord is
touched in the hearts of all who knew her.
There is a tremor of the lips of those who
speak her name. When she is mentioned
it is in a low, gentle voice, as if her life
were too sacred to be discussed. And un-
consciously one lingers lovingly upon that
sweet name, “Mima.”
	When we kneel in sacred prayer, we im-
plore the Father to heal the bleeding
hearts of her loved ones.
	When we think of her, a sweet calm
enters our souls.
	We lisp her name and the gentle zephyrs,
kissed by the perfumed roses, steal through
the moonlit window, catch the whisper and
it is vibrated through the house, borne
away to the gurgling brooks, carried
through grassy dells and leafy trees, and
thence to the mighty ocean, and then on
and on to the realms above; and as the
echoes are dying away in the distance, we
hear the faint murmur, “Mima, sweet
Mima.”
	Were we all more like Mima, how
blessed the world would be!


