NATIONAL LIVE STOCK CONVENTION.
	Great preparations were made in the
city for the National Live Stock Conven-
tion, held here the third week in January.
Business houses and all public buildings
were profusely decorated, and the Electric
Light Company did much to enhance the
beauty of the night with the colored
lights ingeniously strung here and there.
The Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in which
the Convention was held, was a dazzling
scene of splendor by night and more elabor-
atety decorated than ever before, the
heads and horns of cattle making it very
picturesque, and the seals of all the States
arranged around the gallery, were very
interesting indeed.
	The reception at the Knutsford Tuesday
evening the 15th, was a grand affair, both
for strangers and citizens. The Governor
and a few of the ladies committee (his
staff, and Gen Cannon of the N. G. U., in
uniform) received the guests in the center
of the parlor, which was very handsomely
and elaborately decorated in honor of the
ladies and gentlemen of the Convention.
Other rooms were beautifully decorated as
well as the dancing hall, which was a scene
of beauty. The music was very fine and
the evening passed pleasantly, notwith-
standing the immense crowd.
	Much credit is due the General Commit-
tee, of which the Governor was chairman,
and Mrs. Holmes, who furnished all the
beautiful flowers that made the rooms so
attractive.
	The receptions in private residences
given to the ladies of the party, were all
very pleasant affairs,and one hopes a happy
remembrance of Salt Lake City to these
lady visitors from all parts of the United
States.
	On Friday afternoon, January 18, Mrs.
Thompson and other ladies at the Mayor’s
residence, Mrs. McCornick and ladies at her
elegant home, and Mrs. Snow at the Bee
Hive, with a few of her friends,opened their
homes from 2 to 5 to the visitors of the
party making the occasion as festive as such
formal entertainments can be by furnishing
the best of music and appropriate drapery
and decorating for the time and occasion.
	At the Bee Hive, which is a historic house
built early in the settlement of Salt Lake
City, a program of the songs and music had
been printed, and each guest was given one
as a souvenir of the occasion. Some of the
best talent of the city gave both vocal and
instrumental selections from the greatest
composers.
	So many things have transpired during


the first month of the new year that it is
impossible to do justice to the subject un-
less one had more space or a daily paper.


