[Column 1]
November 1, 1848. She was a faithful Latter-day
Saint, and as such we mourn her departure. She
was president of the Young Ladies’ Association in
Bloomington (her former home) for ten years, and
second counselor in the Georgetown Relief Society,
which position she filled with honor until her health
failed and she resigned her position as counselor.
	She was of a quiet, retiring disposition, yet
always willing to do her duty. She was the
mother of eight children, three sons and five
daughters, all of whom attended her funeral ex-
cepting one son. who resides in Canada and did
not arrive in time to see his beloved mother, and
drop one tear of sorrow on her marble brow.
	Resolved, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our beloved sister to her heavenly home,
that we desire to emulate her noble example, and
that we herewith express our heartfelt sympathy
for her bereaved husband and children. Be it
fnrther
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on
the record of the society, a copy be sent to the
family and one to the Woman’s Exponent for
publication. 
			SUSAN E. THOMPSON, Pres.
MARY CRAIGG PETERSON.
	Sister Mary Craigg Peterson, who, after an ill-
ness of several months, of dropsy, departed this
life November 11, 1900.
	Sister Peterson was born in Denmark, May 20,
1863. After embracing the Gospel she came to
Zion to mingle with the chosen people of God. She
leaves a husband and four children, three sons and
one daughter the youngest child being a boy six
months old.
	Sister Mary was a faithful worker as a teacher
in the Pleasant Green Ward Relief Society, of Salt
Lake Stake of Zion. She never shrank beneath
the responsibilities of her duties in the cause of
trnth.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, yea. they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved. That as God in His in[--]ite wisdom
saw fit to call our beloved sister to the Great
Beyond, we all share in the grief of her departure
from us, yet joy when we think of her being in
happiness in her heavenly home.
	That we will miss her as a faithful worker and a
dear associate.
	That we present a copy of these resolutions to
her bereaved husband and family, to her mother,
one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication and
one be placed on file in the Relief Society record
book.
					ALVIRA S. HIRST, Pres.
ANNIE LAZENBY.
	Sister Annie Lazenby died at her home in Loa,
Utah, October 29, 1900. She was the daughter of
[-]ohn Tether and Phebe Oads Tether. She was
born at Thorn, near Doncaster, England, June
30, 1845, joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. June 1866, was baptized by
Elder Fulmer and came to Utah in 1868 on the
good ship Constitution. She crossed the plains
from the Platte River, walking most of the way.
There were sixty wagons drawn by oxen. Cap-
tain John Gallispie’s company arrived in Salt Lake
City in September, where she took a room near
Brother Betson Eardley in the seventh Ward.
	She was married to John T. Lazenby by D. H.
Wells in the Endowment House, March 17, 1869,
and went with her husband to the railroad at the
mouth of Weber canyon on J. W, Young’s con-
tract. They moved to Pleasant Grove June 1869,
and to Minersville Nov. 1869, and came to Fre-
mont Valley Nov. 1878, and located at Loa, which
was then a part of Grass Valley Ward, the in-
habitants at that time being mostly Indians.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, was the
mother of three sons and six daughters. One son
and one daughter preceded her to the better land.
She leaves a husband and two sons (one of whom
is now on a mission to South Carolina) and five
daughters to revere her memory.
	She was a teacher in the Loa Relief Society ever
since its organization until her health was so poor
she could not go as a teacher any longer, but was
always a faithful, energetic woman. She was an
invalid for about five years before her death.
					M. J. TAYLOR, Pres.
ANNA CHRISTINE MARIA PALLISEN JANSEN.
	Sister Anna Christine Maria Pallisen Jansen,
widow of the late A. A. Jansen, of the Third Ward
of Brigham City, died Monday, September 17, at
9:15 p. m., of dropsy, after a lingering illness.

[Column 2]
	She was born October 27, 1838, in Norie, Konges-
lov, Niborg, Amt, Denmark, and joined the Latter-
day Saints when eighteen years of age. She came
to Utah in 1858, settled in Brigham City in 1859.
	She was the mother of four children, two
daughters surviving her.
	She was called and acted as teacher in the Re-
lief Society in 1876 and on March 13, 1878, was
called as second counselor to Mary Stark, which
position she held until she was called to preside
over the Relief Society of the Third Ward, Feb.
25, 1896, which position she held with honor until
a few months before her death, when her failing
health caused her to request and obtain honorable
release.
	She died as she had lived, a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint. Her many friends will miss her,
still to know that her sufferings are passed became
a comfort to those who loved her, and that she is
now enjoying sweet rest.
	The following resolutions were unanimously
adopted at a recent meeting of the Relief Society
of the Third Ward of Brigham City.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
His infinite love and mercy to call home our be
loved president. Sister Anna Christine Maria
Pallisen Jansen, therefore be it
	Resolved, That in her death we have lost an
earnest and faithful president and worker of the
Relief Society, one who was ever ready to help the
needy and give words of sympathy to those in
trouble.
	That we, her co-laborers, have lost a true, loving
sister, and that we will miss her words of wis-
dom and advice. But we know that God doeth all
things we[-]l, and while we miss her here, she is
happy with her husband and friends in the
eternal world.
	That we express our love and gratitude for
her unceasing labors, present a copy of these
resolutions to her bereaved family, and also that a
copy be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation and a copy be placed on file in the ward
record book.
