LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
Minntes of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting, Jan. 12 President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Present on the stand, President M. I. 
Horne, Annie T. Hyde, Elizabeth Webb,
S J. Cannon, Julia C. Howe.
	Meeting commenced by singing, "All 
hail the new born year." Prayer by Sister 
Sarah Jane Cannon. Singing, "Come let 
us anew our journey pursue." 
	President Horne welcomed the sisters at 
their first semi-monthly meeting of the new 
year and the new century. Made very 
instructing remarks relative to the prophecies 
of the opening of the new year and new 
century, and concerning this people. Testi-
fied of the goodness of the Lord in assisting 
the people to reclaim the desert places and 
improve this country to which we were led 
by the prophets of the Lord. Prayed for 
the spirit of the Lord on all the people.
	A sister in the congregation testified to 
the goodness of the Lord to her in restoring 
her memory and in answering her prayers 
in many instances. Sister Julia C. Howe
testified of the goodness of the Lord to her.
Was grateful for the preservation of her 
life. Felt that there was a great work for 
her to do in working for her dead. Ac-
knowledged the goodness of the Lord in 
answering her prayers. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon considered it a 
privilege to attend these meetings, for the 
words of testimony uttered were a great 
help to her. Hoped we would all live ex-
emplary lives and live so that we would be 
saved in the celestial kingdom.
[column 2]
	Sister Webb thought these meetings 
created a feeling of love among those who
attended. Hoped we would all live so as to 
have faith to meet the trials and scourges 
that were bound to be in our midst and of 
which we will be sure to have a part.
	A sister in the congregation from the 
Twenty-Fourth Ward bore her testimony. 
Sister Annie T. Hyde encouraged the 
sisters to speak, as it not only assisted 
themselves, but helped others. Spoke of 
the necessity of doing Temple work and of 
the great development of science in the past 
century, was sure we could not have an 
idea of what awaited us in the future. Bore 
a faithful testimony to the truth of the 
Gospel.
	A sister in the congregation bore an 
earnest testimony.
	Sister Sophia T. Nuttall said she was 
glad to be present, was especially thankful
for health and the preservation of her life 
and the lives of her children. Felt to praise 
her Heavenly Father and to rejoice in 
the work, and hoped to be able to endure to 
the end.
	Sister Brown thanked her Heavenly 
Father for all the blessings given her, was 
thankful for the privilege of working in the 
Temple. 
A sister from Brighton Ward realized 
that it is a great blessing to live at this 
time, hoped to have strength to do the 
labor devolving on her. Had received 
many testimonies of the truth of the Gos-
pel.
	A sister in the congregation said she 
knew the Lord would open the way for us if 
we earnestly ask him to assist us, made 
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Hardy prayed for strength to re-
main faithful and for assistance to perform 
the duties of life. Was thankful for the 
blessings of the Lord.
	A sister spoke of the blessings of the 
Father to her in giving her a testimony of 
the truth. 
	Sister Mary Silver was glad to be a mem-
ber of the Church, thought we should 
stand firm and keep the commandments 
given us and the covenants we have made. 
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams bore her testi-
mony to the blessings of the Lord which 
are constantly given to His people.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the 
blessings which she had received from the
Lord.
	Another sister said she had been in the 
Church fifty years. She had a testimony
that this was the work of the Lord. 
Sister Barrow was glad to have a testi-
mony. She was always learning something.
Spoke of the answer to her prayers in giv-
ing health and strength to her children. 
Knew that the Lord did answer prayers,
We must work for the blessings we receive.
	Sister Horne made a few closing remarks.
Said the sisters should study the life of the 
Savior, and we should do as we would like 
to be done by. Spoke of administering to 
the sick, said that those administering 
should have the spirit of the Lord, or the 
sympathy of the one administering might 
impel him to promise blessings which the 
Lord did not see fit to give.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. 	Benediction by Sister
Silver.
	CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, Sec. pro tem.


HON. GEORGE F. HOAR is still the
senior Senator from Massachusetts.


