BAZAR LETTER.
Mrs. J. Fewson Smith:
	We have been so overwhelmed with the
work of the Bazar that we are away behind
with our correspondence. I trust this will
explain to you my neglect of your letter. I
would be glad to have you read this letter
to others who are interested, in order that
one writing may do for all.
	Your goods were all properly received.
Mrs. Gilmer came from Boston to take
charge of the Utah exhibit. We had a five
pointed star to represent the suffrage states
and the goods from all four of them were
put in this booth. The Indian things
sold like hot cakes. You sent a splendid
exhibit, we thought. The doll was the ad-
miration of all. Mrs. McKinley sent a doll
beautifully dressed in white, and that
and the Utah doll were rivals; and there
was an amusing difference of opinion as to
which was the finer doll.
	It did not sell to please us, however. We
found that people did not buy expensive
dolls and that the cheaper ones went faster.
We had so many of these beautiful dolls
that we could find no ready market for
them. However, there was a return from
the dolls not measured in money. Nothing
advertised us more than the report of
the beautiful dolls from the Governors’
wives. Reporters found in that fact much
of interest to write up, and the first thing
the people wanted to see when they came to
the Bazar were the beautiful dolls. They
were greatly admired and I think were the
source of attraction which sold many other
goods. For this reason I can feel that even
though they sold below their actual value,
they were not a loss.
	The Utah doll was a costly one but we
were only able to sell it for $13.00 or $13.50.
We sold it at auction the last night. The
little girl who got it was made very happy
by her possession, but did not realize what a
bargain she had. However, as I have said
before, although this was far below its
cost, it did its good work for us in other
ways.
	The one thing which seems to me most
cruel about the Bazar is that so many things
have to be sold below their value. This
was a heart-rending thing to me all the
way through the Bazar, and when I saw
the chairmen of booths marking down their
goods. I have never had any experience in
bazars. I was always told that this was
the way they always did in bazars, and I
found that most purchasers were bargain-
hunters, and bargains they found.
	I think at this writing that our balance
will be $700.00. We have still some bills
to pay and some receipts to come in, so we


do not know how we stand. I think this is
it, however.
	I want to thank you good women in Utah
for all your good work and co-operation.
You are noble friends of the cause, and I
assure you we appreciate you every one.
We were very glad Mrs. Gilmer could come.
She had the misfortune to catch cold and
very nearly lose her voice, and consequent-
ly worked with great suffering throughout
the Bazar. She was loyal help, however,
and we appreciated her.
		Yours faithfully,
			CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT.
	December 29, 1900.


