[Column 1]
WHAT HATH THE CENTURY WROUGHT
	If the question were asked, what has
been the most remarkable development of
the Nineteenth Century, a number of
answers might be given.
	The scientist would point to the magnifi-
cent records of medicine, of steam, of
electricity, of all the mechanical devices and
discoveries.
	The artist would refer you to the rejuven-
ation made in music, painting, literature
and in all the arts which made Greece sole
mistress of the world for centuries.
	The religionist would quote any one of
the great revivals, or perhaps would point
to the intense expressions of materalism on
the one hand, and spiritism on the other.
	Each and all would choose a different
phase of the many-sided Progress in this
passing century, which is as varied as the
natures, occupations and dispositions of
men who have taken part therein.
	If a being from some other sphere, whose
vision had been clarified through absence
of time-limits were asked to answer this
question, his answer, based on the superior-
ity of men to things, would be—the most
wonderful feature of the past century is the
development of the individuality of man.
	Men there have been; individuals have al-
ways arisen here and there on the horizon
of history; but men have been lumped to-
gether, as it were; the nations have hereto-
fore been forcibly classified. The shot at
Lexington tore away the constructing bands
of all previous tradition, and man stood
there alone, each one classifying himself
forever more.
	In primitive conditions men were all indi-
viduals; but as social expression became
necessary men found it expedient to invest
united authority in one or more of their
number. That moment there began the
monarchical form of social life, in which
the man gradually lost identity and the
government rested in the hands of the few.
	With varying forms, this type of life con-
tinued down to the close of the 18th cen-
tury
	Sporadic forms of individuality existed, it
is true, but usually they appeared in law-
less or barbaric life.
	It is not the purpose of this writing to
inquire into the prehistoric or spiritual
causes of such facts as have been stated,
but to group about this premise some ex-
planations and deductions, and to add a
forecast of the near future.
	Consider for a moment what conditions
surrounded the man born into monarchical
life. He was, as a child, environed with a
chain of circumstances which held him with
deathless power. If he were born into a
palace, or on the steps of a throne, he could
have no choice, except between being a
good or bad monarch. All the teachings
and arts of courtiers might portray to him the
unexcelled grandeur and splendor of his

[Column 2]
future; but if he were an artist, a cook or a
carpenter by nature, nothing could be done
for him except to fit him up a playhouse for
his rare leisure moments. Not even his
heart could dictate his marital relations, in
legality. The woman he longed to crown
might be a scullery maid, and the eloquence
of the kingdom might supplement the
teachings and traditions of his youth, while
a dozen utterly disinterested men canvassed
neighboring kingdoms to select the woman
best fitted, politically and strategically
for his consort. One thing he could al-
ways resort to, to relieve the pressure of re-
straint upon his will, he could be wicked or
spiteful, or both.
	Pass down through the various positions,
classes and degrees, until the street gamin
is reached, each, the nobleman’s son, the
merchant’s heir, the child of the tradesman,
the offspring of the day laborer, each was
held closely in the circle into which he was
born by environment, by education and by
tradition.
	One thing each one could do, sink to the
level below him, or down and down till
disgrace and death closed the scene. But
none could go higher, except in rare and
peculiar cases; and these exceptions but ac-
centuated the rule.
	There were exceptions; but where the
individual, through accident or design, suc-
ceeded in reaching a higher class, he was
absorbed into the upper class, and he must
perforce sever all connection with his own
class, no matter at what cost to himself or
to his former associates.
	All these conditions are familiar to the
student of history, and indeed, they exist
today, in such governments as still per-
petuate the monarchical forms.
	No man in Europe says who shall be his
next Sovereign. Nor do they in any
measure, except in France, Switzerland and
England, dictate the policies of their
countries; and in France, in England and
in Switzerland it is the classes which hold
the partial franchise and even then the
power is limited and the choice restricted.
	American independence gives not alone
the power to vote for this man or that, for this
policy or that. The ethical foundation upon
which that right rests is the most precious
gift ever given to man; it is the right of
choice, limitless, boundless.
	A man under this flag may vote or not
vote; he may be a plunger in the Stock-
market or a bootblack on the street. He
may be the ruler of the country, or a tramp.
	If he moves above his youthful conditions
into a wealthier or more cultured class,
there is no reason why his family and
relatives shall not accompany him, if they
comply with the same conditions.
	He may do or not do, he has every human
choice offered him, and the only limit is his
capacity and his will. In other words, he
makes his own environments; in the 
European countries, his environments make
him.
	With this understanding, let us approach
another phase of this subject, and consider
it well.
	When men faced the enemy at Lexington
there were those within the distant cottages
of the village, who melted the lead and
ran into molds the deadly missilles which
gave the final expression to revolt from
tyranny and classification.
	These were women! 
	When she saw, that wife, that mother,
what her husband and sons had wrought;
when she beheld the shackles which had


