VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE. 
	Sister Morris and I left St. George with
the missionaries, Brothers William Stirling
and Oscar Bentley, to visit the settlements
south of St. George, November 9, 1900.
We reached Littlefield that evening and
held meeting with the Primary Association,
presided over by Sister Hannah Iverson.
This settlement is a corner of Arizona. We
go on about ten or fifteen miles and find
ourselves in Nevada.
	On the 10th we reached Bunkerville. We
held a meeting with the Primary, Sister
Harriet M. Earl (who is very efficient) pre-
siding. 	We were entertained at Bishop
Edward Bunker’s, who informed us that he
had raised 8,400 pounds of seedless dried
grapes from three acres of land. 	It shows
us what can be done by a systematic way
of working.	Bishop Bunker went, to Cali-
fornia and learned what he could in regard
to raising grapes.
	Sunday morning we met with the Sab-
bath School.	 After the exercises Brother
Stirling talked on the first principles of the
Gospel, followed by Brother Bentley. After


the afternoon meeting we met with the
Relief Society. Read the circular letter in
regard to building a house to hold our
General Conference in, in Salt Lake City.
There was a ready response to it. The
sisters feel to serve the Lord, observe the
Word of Wisdom, pay their tithes and
offerings, attend their prayers and teach
their children to pray.
On the 12th we traveled over to St.
Joseph and held a meeting in the evening.
I believe all the people of the settlement
were there. The brethren gave them the
Gospel in its purity. We had a good time.
On the 13th we went to Overton. We
held a meeting in the forenoon for the people,
in the afternoon for the Relief Society. The
Bishop met with us and we filled vacancies
in the Relief Society and Primary.
On the 14th we went on to St. Thomas,
visited among the sisters. Met in an eve-
ning meeting. Bishop Jones said we had
the spirit of the Lord in our midst.
There is plenty of good land in the
Muddy Valley, and would make homes for
many people if enough would come in to
purchase it.
On the 17th we returned to Bunkerville.
In the evening we held a meeting with the
advanced Primary, the children going
through the exercises very creditably.
On the 16th we went to Musquito Flat.
Here the people are filling up this settlement
very fast. We held two meetings here and
went on to Brother Nephi Johnson’s, where
they are building a very nice house,and par-
took of their hospitality. We arrived at
Littlefield in time to hold an evening meet-
ing.
We reached St. George on the 17th,
having traveled two hundred miles, held
twelve meetings and, we trust, done some
good in urging the sisters to their duty.
 Ann C. Woodbury.


