		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 

	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father 
to remove our dear sister and take her to a higher 
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful 
worker in the cause of truth and that we desire to 
emulate her earnest labors; and be it 
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the 
bereaved husband and children and pray our 
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influences 
of His holy spirit rest upon them that they may 
realize that she has only gone before and is enjoy-
ing the rest of the faithful and will come forth to a 
glorious immortality and eternal life. And be it 
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be 
placed on our record, one sent to the bereaved 
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for 
publication.
	Committee in behalf of the Relief Society. 
					ELLEN D. CLARKE, 
					ELIZABETH MCCARTY. 
		ANE ANDERSON POULSEN.
	Ane Anderson Poulsen, born July 21, 1822, in 
Fastrup, Denmark. She was married to August 
Poulsen in 1830. They removed to Alborg where 
they embraced the Gospel in 1858 and endured 
much persecutien for the sake of the Gospel. Their 
home was the home of the Elders. They never 
tired of ministering to their wants. 
	Six children were born to them, of whom four 
are living, three sons and a daughter, the latter 
emigrating to Utah under the care of the Elders 
in 1867. The next year her husband and two of 
their sons emigrated to the valley of the mountains, 
where her husband labored to earn sufficient 
means to send back for his wife and their remain-
ing child. In the year 1870 they made their home 
in Alpine, Utah Co., where her husband departed 
this life in 1877.
	In the year 1884 she moved to Arizona together
with her children where she resided until the day 
of her death, December 3, 1900.
	Sister Poulsen was a faithful Latter-day Saint 
and an active member of the Relief Society of the 
Graham ward, St. Joseph Stake, and the first one 
removed by death since the society was organized 
over seventeen years ago. 
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the Lord has called from our midst 
our beloved sister,
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death the 
loss of a worthy member and a good Latter-Saint 
worthy the respect of all.
	That we sympathize with her family in the loss 
of a kind and affectionate mother.
	That these resolutions be placed on our records, 
that a copy of the same be presented to the family
and also to the EXPONENT for publication.
					MARY E. SKINNER, 
					MARY A. PETERSON, 
					MARY J. TALLEY, 
								Committee.


