[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
	One old lady whom we had not invited
as soon as she learned what was being
done, donned her finest white robe and
made her appearance. I received her as I
did the invited guests, knowing she was
ignorant of our customs. The natives
from far and near thronged the house,
looking in at the windows to admire the
decorations. I felt annoyed and asked the
chief if he would tell them to go away.
He plead for them as a father would for his
children. They had never seen anything

[Column 2]
of that kind before and he wished me to
indulge them for once, another time they
should be sent away. I felt that he was
right and consented to let them feast their
eyes as long as they would.
	After dinner we held a prayer meeting,
and at evening illuminated the house with
all the glass lamps in the village. The
brilliant lights threw over all a mantle of
romance, exceeding anything I had ever
seen. Brother Crosby and Ellen made the
instrumental music, and added to the sweet
melody of human voices made it seem in
reality like a birthday of the beloved
Savior.
	Here, now in December, the heat is ex-
cessive. It is the first time I have suffered
with it. Frances, I discover, is getting
uneasy. I pray that the way may appear
for us to return home, lest our daughters
become unhappy.
	The 28th. After returning from the
Sabbath morning service I was sent for in
great haste. Sister Grouard was taken
suddenly with a severe chill. She was
exercised in a singular manner. The
natives exclaimed, “Tupau pau,” (That is
an evil spirit.) In vain I remonstrated;
told them she had taken a cold, it was an
ague chill. They said I was “maro,” that
is stubborn and hard to believe. As the
chill left her they let down the curtains to
dress her. A native sister whispered,
“Look you under the curtains and see the
spirit when it comes out.” So great is
their supersition. The sick woman got out
of bed with a high fever, a little wondering
in mind. They eyed her very closely and
thought they saw the devil. She is fast
recovering.
	There is another sick woman sinking
every day. She is in the bloom of life and
has six children. O, gladly would I save
her. She is surrounded by unbelievers in
the ordinances of the Gospel, even in the
same house. It is hard to have faith then.
I regret we were not supplied with simple
medicines when she left home.
	January 1, 1852. New Years we cele-
brated by making another feast. We dec-
orated Brother Crosby’s house, made it
white with coral lime, “Te fau nehe whe te
fare no yo nu tuna.”
	Many of the natives were invited and
seated at the tables. There were five
tables set for seventeen. They improve a
little each time. The outside of the house
was surrounded by the poor, uncouth
beings. It is a trial to bear with their
extreme ignorance, still a little pleasure to
amuse them. They will gaze for a half
hour at a picture, and you must answer
forty questions concerning it. They must
know the history entire or not be satisfied.
We all agree in wishing our friends in Salt
Lake a happy New Year. We trust they
are wishing us the same. On these oc-
casions we dress ourselves in a becoming
and tasteful manner, ornament our rooms
as we would to receive fashionable and re-
fined company, all for the purpose of ex-
ample, that they may understand our cus-
toms and to stimulate them to imitation
and improvement. Twice today we
thought we heard the cry of “Pakiia hoi,”
(ship coming), but were disappointed. The
children’s ears are open now and will be
till the Ravai comes into port. We shall
watch to see her tall masts and white sails
reeling in the strong breeze, which now
blows fair for Tubuai. There is no other
hope of again being relieved of monotany
but the return of the vessel. I have been


toiling all the morning cleaning my door-
yard. I often do such things to encourage
the native women to clean theirs. They
will pass along complimenting me in this
way. “e hara! Pa ruita va hine foa nehe nehe
aua! They seem to think all the little
nice habits belong exclusively to the
Europeans A few there are who have
imitation large Such if they had courage
to excel would do well, but it is no trait of
a native to be above his fellows. With
this people there is little division or dis-
tinction, even those who do not belong to
the Church must be treated as brethren.
	Today the Elders broke bread. The
brethren came from the other village.
Brother Alexander called after the close of
the services, and talked of his trouble with
his native wife. She is a childish girl, it
is evident she does not love him. What a
pity that sensible men should involve them-
selves with these poor ignorant women.
They cannot bring them to their level, it is
unwise to attempt it. To be comfortable
with them they must descend to their level.
	The 5th day. Head winds, no prospect
of the ship coming in tomorrow, we shall
go to Mahu for a few days. Walked to the
village, a distance of five miles, wind very
high, did not feel fatigued. Made the
the village at twelve, visited and went to
see the sick woman. She was laying on a
mat spread upon the ground, a hard pil-
low for her head. I saw she was dyimg,
her feet and hands were cold. Her hus-
band was leaning over her, apparently the
only mourner. I felt distressed to see no
one doing anything for her relief. I ordered
chicken broth, which she took easily. I
heated rocks and applied to her hands and
feet. I saw they were expecting her to
die, and so sat idly down to await the
event. A large pile of cloths lay near her,
brought to wrap her in, as their custom is
when one dies. She spoke distinctly
several times, had her reason well, seemed
calm and resigned.

	The bell was rung and the children
called together. I organized them into a
class and taught them to translate Tahitian
words into English, to count and reckon—
nearly anything for employment is better
than idleness. The white children amuse
themselves rambling about and gathering
flowers. They go often to the bathing
places. I cannot be contented without
business and company. Anything like
employment I grasp with eagerness. This
is a silent place, no noise but the rumbling,
roaring old waves of the sea.
		(To be continued.)


