[Column 1]
WOMANS CONGRESS IN PARIS.
	The meeting of women in International
Congresses, comparatively speaking, is yet in
its infancy, only two having been held up
to date, but both of those have proven emi-
nently successful, and the good that re-
sulted from them will doubtless be far-
reaching in its nature. These Congresses
are especially of great benefit to women
and the noble cause they represent.
	At these meetings women from all
quarters of the globe come together and
talk about matters of material interest, and

[Column 2]
thus a better understanding is effected be-
tween the women of the different nations
and they become more familiar with each
other’s conditions and needs. These meet-
ings tend also to bring women closer to-
gether and the spirit of sincere fraternity,
which is so essential to progression, is thus
fostered and cultivated.
	A good example of these gatherings is
presented in that of the Second Internation-
al Congress of Women’s Works and In-
structions which was held in Paris this year,
which in every way was a pronounced suc-
cess.
	The Congress opened in the grand Hall
of Congresses, on the 18th of June. That
people were interested in it was attested to
by the fact that the hall was filled long be-
fore the hour of commencement by the
many friends of woman’s cause.
	M. Mabillean, director of the social
musee, opened the Congress with a few
well chosen remarks wherein he expressed
himself as being in sympathy with the
woman’s movement, and he thought that
all difficulties and obstacles would be sur-
mounted and overcome ere long, and
woman’s cause be triumphant.
	President Monod then spoke eloquently
and with much feeling. First she paid
tribute to the memories of the ones who
were the prime originators of the Congress,
viz., M. Jules Simon and Mme. Emilie de
Morsier.
	“The family is an indivisible body which
the connection above renders complete.
We may say that woman is nothing without
man, and man nothing without woman.
Together they constitute the organic and
complete human being. When the Creator
said ‘It is not good for man to be alone, I
will give him an aid like to himself,’ he
certainly intended to give him neither a
slave nor a rival.
	“Many have thought and still think that
the cause of woman would take care of itself
the better the less was said about it. 
	“Do you not think, ladies, the experi-
ment of silence has been tried long enough,
and it is time now to try other methods?”
	She then spoke about the moral and in-
dustrial emancipation of woman as chief
issues before the Congress.
	“We hear much about the woman
in the home. What about all the
woman without a home? There are
3,000,000 unmarried women of marriagable
age in France. These must be armed for
their struggle. We must unite not only to
keep them, but to change conditions so that
children will not toe endangered in advance
with a deplorable heredity.
	“We must not be superficial, helping
here and there an isolated case, we must
combat the evil not in its effects, but in its
cause.”
	The speaker then said, “It has been
stated that the era of prevention must
begin.” She claimed charity was not dead
but living in a new form, that of preven-
tion.
	Mlle. Monod closed her excellent dis-
course in the following terms: “What will

[Column 3]
go out from this Congress? In a great
measure that which we ourselves carry
there. To work the works of justice and
peace let us bring here a spirit of justice, of
peace and of true fraternity.”
	Mme. Isabella Bogelot then made a
splendid address.
	Telegrams were sent to President and
Mme. Loubet and others. In the evening a
brilliant reception was given in honor of
the delegates in the palace of women,
where Mme. Pegard received the guests.
The evening was spent in admiring the
beautiful works of women in statues, paint-
ings and other objects created by women’s
talent.
							E. J.


Kana[-] Relief Society
Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

