		AN ENJOYABLE TIME.
	The Relief Society of Lehi celebrated the
anniversary of the first organization by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, on Monday evening,
March 18, 1901, by having a social party in
Garff’s Hall. About one hundred and fifty
sat down to supper. After all partaking of
the repast the following program was
rendered:
	Opening hymn, “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah.” Prayer by
Elder W. Southwick. Address of Welcome
by President Rebecca Standring. The
company joined Elder James Kirkham in
singing “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Speech by Bishop T. R. Cutler.
Solo, Mrs. N. Garff. Speech, State Senator
A. J. Evans. Solo, Mr. James M. Kirk-
ham. Speech by Counselor A. R. Anderson.
	Dancing then commenced, President
Standring leading the grand march, fol-
lowed by the Board of Directors the
trustees and teachers, who were distin-
guished by wearing white waists and black
skirts, and wore very slight headdresses.
	The remainder of the evening was spent
very enjoyably in dancing. A time long to
be remembered.
	ALICE STANDRING, Sec.
		ST. JOHN, KANSAS.
	We have been instructed through the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT that all the Relief
Society should meet on the 17th of March
each year, to celebrate the organization of
the society in the year 1842, and to pay a
membership fee of ten cents each.
	Our society was organized January 8,
1899, by Elder W. T. Jack, he being the
president of our mission at that time.
	We met at our church in St. John,
Kansas, March 16, 1901, (the 17th being on
the Sabbath) for the purpose of celebrating
that day, and had a short entertainment of
which the following is a sketch. Our
president presided.
	Opened by singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer was offered by Grand-
father Baker. Continued by singing “Come
all ye sons of God.” Elders King and

[Column 3]
White talked to us for a short time and
gave us some good instructions, after which
we served refreshments.
	Each member present gave her ten cents
membership fee, which amounts to one
dollar and thirty cents ($1.30), which
amount we send as per instructions.
