RESIGNATION.
She lay like a lily in her cold, white bed
	With her hands crossed close on her breast,
While over her eyelids and lips there spread,
	And brooded, the spirit of rest.
But my heart was torn with a mighty grief.
	And I cried who talks of God’s will?
To snatch from our home this half-ripened sheaf?
	Methought her lips whispered “God’s will.” 

With a startled tear, I knelt at her side,  
	And prayed an agonized prayer:
“My dear, if thou hear’st and knowest beside,
	Tell me, sweet, why liest thou there!
Have I failed in my duty, forgotten my part?
	Have I carelessly said, ‘All is well?’
Exposed thee too blindly to death’s cruel dart?’
	The pale lips but echoed, “All’s well!”

“O, if I’d done this, or had not done so,
	Perhaps thou would’st still be with me!
Yes, I have been harsh, failed my true love to show,
	’Tis from these Death setteth thee free.
But ah, if thou knowest my pain and regret,
	And the prayers I have prayed unto Heaven
Mayhap thou’lt forgive, and never forget!”
	But the lips only echoed “To Heaven!”

Then o’er my sad heart, there fell like a balm,
	The peace which He giveth His own,
I dried up my tears, my spirit grew calm,
	I knew that I was not alone.
The sparrow He sees, feeds the raven wild,
	And leadeth the weary to rest,
Then why should I doubt He called to my child
	For her sweet lips echoed, “To rest!”

I will trust in His grace, I will not bemoan,
	For that which hath gone before,
He knoweth my weakness, yet makes me His own,
	I will love Him and serve Him the more.
He helps me and He alone knoweth how, 
	For no one but He is the Judge!
I kissed her white lips to seal up my vow,
	And they murmured “Lo, He is the Judge!”

Be at peace, O my heart, thy trials are known,
	And thy struggles will some day cease,
For the sweetne s of death is victory’s crown.
	He giveth His children release,
Be at rest, O, my heart, you strive not alone,
	Nor alone feel the chastening rod,
Give up thy dead ! He but taketh His own!
	She goeth to rest with her God?
