		ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON.

	The nineteenth century is drawing to a
close, and as we take a retrospective view
of the great and wonderful events that have
transpired since its commencement, the re-
flecting mind is struck with awe and
wonder at the improvement that has been
made in the step toward perfection of the
various arts and sciences, literature, music
and all other branches of education that
have been developed for the benefit and
progress of humanity.
	One of the great events that has tran-
spired in this century was the War of the
Rebellion, and the freedom of the colored
race from the bondage of slavery; also the
enfranchisement of women in various parts
of the land, whereby they have been en-
abled to enlarge and develop their oppor-
tunities of doing more good in many ways
for the improvement and advancement of
their sex and the world.
	The establishing of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ once more upon the earth in its ful-
ness and purity for the salvation and re-
demption of the human family by our
Heavenly Father, and the rearing up of a
prophet, an inspired man of God to assist
Him in the great and glorious work. The
Gospel is being preached to the nations of
the earth by our faithful missionaries.
Prophecies of both ancient and modern
prophets are being fulfilled concer ningwhat
should transpire in the latter days.
	The recent war in Cuba and the Philip-
pines is not to be passed over lightly,
neither the tearing down of the famous
Chinese wall and the entrance of troops into
China, as it has been hitherto thought
impossible. Disasters of almost every
known nature have been poured out upon
the land, and various other things of great
magnitude that have transpired in the
present century.
	And now a new era is about to dawn
upon the world; another century is about to
be ushered in, and no doubt greater and
mightier events will transpire in the future.
He above, who reigns in the heavens and
controls the destinies of His children upon
the earth, knows the extent thereof.
	But let the Saints prepare themselves for
another great event, which we believe is
near at hand, even the coming of our Lord
and Savior Jesus Christ, when the glorious
Millennial reign of Peace and Rest will be
ushered in perhaps in the twentieth
century.
