R. S. REPORT.
WAYNE STAKE.
	The Wayne Stake Relief Society confer-
ence convened at Torrey meeting house,
December 6, 1900, Stake President W. E.
Robison, Counselor H. M. Hansen, Patri-
arch E. H. Blackburn, Bishop George H.
Crosby, George S. Coleman and several
brethren present.
	Singing, “The morning breaks, the
shadows flee.” Prayer offered by Patriarch
Blackburn. Singing, “The time is nigh,
the happy time.” Minutes of last conference
read and accepted. President Jane Cole-
man presided,
	President Coleman felt grateful for the
presence of the brethren with us. Reported
the local Relief Society as being in good
condition, they having visited and found all
feeling, well in their labors of love. Said
the Relief Society sisters should lead out
and assist in everything in a ward that is of
an elevating nature, look after the poor a n
sick, keep in view what Relief Society work
is organized to accomplish, then let other
worthy ambitions follow. The Prophet
Joseph Smith turned the key of knowledge
for women in the organization, and we have
been blessed of the Lord to do and accom-
plish much good. Prayed the blessings of
the Lord upon our conference.
	President Margaret A. Adams reported
Torrey Relief Society in good condition,
was pleased to have conference held at
Torrey.
	President W. E. Robison spoke on the
importance of the Latter-day work, said we
should spend our energies in assisting in the
work of God, and not shift responsibility on
some one else, but realize the part that rests
upon us in the Church. The work of the
Lord is progressive, and it takes effort to
keep pace with the same. Prayed the
blessing of the Lord upon our labor.
	Grace Allen president of the Grover
Relief Society, reported that society as
doing well, said it was good to attend con-
ference and enjoy the spirit of God, it re-
vived our spirits and renewed our love for
the Gospel. Sister Sarah A. Robison was
pleased to meet with us under such favorable
circumstances. A great labor devolved up-
on the Relief Society. “I feel thankful the
Lord has blessed me with a family. We
should not let our children hear a murmur-
ing word from us. We should pray often
that our children may be raised in the truth
of the Gospel, for this is a noble work.”
	President H. M. Hansen said if we carry
out the instructions given to us we will be
benefited thereby. We live in a time of
improvement and should appreciate the
time we live in and be thankful for the
privileges we enjoy.
	Sister Sarah G. Meeks, of Thurber Relief
Society, reported that branch in good order.
Bore testimony to the truth of the Latter-
day work.


Singing, “Brightly beams the sacred
dawning.” Benediction by Elder R. N.
Adams.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “Prayer is
the soul’s sincere desire.” Prayer by Bishop
George G. Crosby. Singing, “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers.”
	The officers of the General board were
presented and sustained, also Stake officers.
	President Jane S. Coleman spoke upon
our efforts in sericulture, we had been
blessed and prospered thus far, but while
the trees are making growth we are to make
preparations to build a house for the
work. Wished those who felt to assist to
do so, and their interest in this direction
would be appreciated. Said we should im-
prove the talents God has given us, speak
kindly of each other and practice our re-
ligion in our lives.
	Patriarch Blackburn said he was grateful
for the opportunity of meeting with the sis-
ters and to bid them God speed. We should
appreciate the day and time in which we
live, the sisters are called of God to fill
these positions. The Lord spoke to His
servant, the prophet. The work we are
engaged in is endless. You should do
your duties as mothers, felt to bless the
sisters. You should cultivate faith in
your children, should remember the chil-
dren are constantly watching the parent.
The mothers work is never done, but we
must take time to look after our
children and cultivate love and union at
home.
	President Lydia C. Adams reported
Teasdale Relief Society doing well.
	Sister Robison said our religion makes us
one, instructions given have all been
good, let us treasure them up in honest
hearts and always have kind words for
every one.
	Bishop George H. Crosby said he had
much experience in Relief Society work,
appreciated the labors of the sisters. Spoke
encouraging words. Sister Eliza Brinkerhoff
spoke on woman’s work.
	President W. E. Robison said the in-
structions given had been timely, we should
repent and improve, we should magnify our
callings and speak good things of each
other. Blessed the Relief Society and its
interests and all our laudable undertakings.
	Choir sang, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Benediction by George S.
Coleman.
