[Column 1]
IN AND ABOUT WASHINGTON.
	Our readers have heard all about the
inauguration ceremonies and read Presi-
dent McKinley’s speech, undoubtedly, and
the inaugural ball has been written up
with elaborate details all over the country;
and, therefore, one scarcely knows what to
tell of great interest, even though one has
visited the nation’s capital and been present
at public proceedings of great importance.
	Mrs. Gates, too, has told the same story in
her graphic way, and, therefore, one must
still repeat the same things over and over.
However, each one speaks for herself in her
own way and may give her own impressions
of places and incidents.
	It is always worth while to go to Wash-
ington when Congress is in session, if one
has the opportunity. There is at these

[Column 2]
times something of interest to the American
people, even women, who are not supposed
to be after Federal appointments; and
certainly at a time when a new administra-
tion is coming in people flock from all parts
of the country in great numbers.
	Washington was full to overflowing on
March 4th of 1901. Long before the time
to open the Senate galleries the halls were
filled and the rush at the doors when opened
was tremendous; the men in charge, how-
ever, preserved order, and the seats and
aisles were very soon filled.
	At first the great attraction was the en-
trance of Vice-President Elect Col. Theodore
Roosevelt, and after that had subsided the
President, his cabinet, Judges of the
Supreme Court and Foreign Ministers,
Ambassadors and Officers of the Army and
Navy, whose elaborate uniforms gave a de-
cided rich tone in contrast to the general
sombre regulation dress of State dignitaries.
Ladies all over the house watched the
Executive gallery to see Mrs. McKinley
enter, and many glasses were turned in her
direction, as was perfectly natural, when
one occupies the high position of the Lady
of the White House.
	Inside the capital the crowd was totally
oblivious of the weather, but in peering out
the crowds on the street, ranged in dense
columns, were standing in pouring rain,
never flinching in the least, waiting to see
the President appear on the stand, in front
of the great historic building. Such
cheers as were raised must be heard to be
appreciated, even though the weather was
so unfavorable, and the flags, banners and
insignia of the day and time were soaked
through and through. We stood very near
and heard every word distinctly. The
President’s voice was clear and far-reaching
and the crowd were so enthusiastic that one
wondered what the effect would have been
had the weather been fine.
	Afterwards along the street where the
parade was expected to pass the people were
simply packed, waiting in pouring rain for
hours to see the officers of State and
the military.
	Colonel Willard Young rode with Gen.
Greene, at the head of the parade, and of
course the Utah people were delighted to
see him in this place of honor. All those
who witnessed the parade were eloquent in
praise of the management of so immense an
affair. In the rooms on Pennsylvania
Avenue, which Senator Kearns had secured,
there were many Utah people, Mrs. John
Henry Smith and her niece, Mr. and Mrs.
H. G. Whitney and Mrs. Willard Young,
Mrs. Ben Rich, Jr., Mrs. Sol Seigel, Mrs.
J. E. Bamberger, President George C.
Parkinson, Mrs. Wilson, Miss Ivers, Mrs.
John Kearns and many more, all too
seriously intent on watching and admiring
the parade as they filed past to make any
comments, but we did notice how the Presi-
dent bared his head and bowed and ac-
knowledged the enthusiastic cheering of the
crowd in his honor.
	The inaugural ball in the new pension
building the same evening was one of the
most elaborate affairs ever given at the
capital, (some people said the most) the
floral and electrical decorations were works
of art and the music was of the highest
order. The surging crowds of people up
stairs and down were exceedingly interest-
ing to look at, though very little dancing
could be indulged in, as there was not
space, and it seemed surprising in such a
crowd to find any one we knew. We met

[Column 3]
there John Young and his mother, formerly
Libbie Canfield, of Philadelphia, whom we
had not seen for many years.
	The next evening we attended the con-
cert given in the same hall, thinking we
would be better able to see the decorations,
and to hear the patriotic music and songs;
but, alas for our hopes, the crowd was much
greater, and we were told it continued so
up to the last evening of the series of con-
certs.
	Washington has had a gala time of festi-
vities during the inaugural week, recep-
tions, operas and theatres all over-crowded,
even the receptions at the White House
were no exception, also excursions to the
various historic places and buildings, so
much so that it was not a good time to see
these places to advantage.
	To one deeply interested in the welfare of
his country and of its progress, such visits
to the capital are instructive and broaden-
ing, and in a direct sense educational; but
there is not even space to give facts, and
therefore one must not indulge in one’s own
impressions.

	The evening of our arrival we attended
the Republican Woman’s banquet, an
elaborate gathering of two hundred notable
women from all parts of the United States,
(and a few men) Mrs. Foster presiding,
Mrs. Foster received in the parlors at the
Riggs house for the first two hours, per-
haps, and then repaired to the banquet hall,
where the floral decorations were very ele-
gant and artistic, and the banquet all and
more than one could desire. Mrs. Foster
looked superb and acted not only as hostess
but toastmistress, and filled both positions
without apparent effort, gracefully and in
a dignified manner. Mrs. Gates, of Utah,
responded to the toast “What protection
has done for Utah in the way of indus-
tries.” Her speech was humorous and
forceful and her audience was intensely
appreciative, if one can judge by the
applause, and she received many congratu-
lations afterwards.
	Thursday evening and Friday all day we
attended the International Press Union
meetings held at the Riggs House, Mary S.
Lockwood, president, at which we had the
opportunity to speak, also Mrs. Gates; and
other privileges on committees, etc. There
we met a number of women whom we had
known previously—Mrs. Clara B. Colby,
editor Woman’s Tribune, a good friend to
our people, another prominent press woman
and other good friends.
	Mrs. Foster arranged a trip for some few
ladies to Glen Echo to pay a visit to Miss
Clara Barton, President-General of the Red
Cross, whose fame as a practical philan-
thropist has encircled the world. This visit
was most delightful, and enroute, via
Georgetown, where we changed cars, we
saw the unpretentious dwelling of Mrs. E. D.
E. N. Southworth, whose stories were the
delight of young and old twenty and thirty
years ago. Her home is prettily situated
on the bank of the picturesque Potomac
river, a most romantic spot, the opposite
bank rising in galleries of evergreen trees.
Fancy what it would be in summer, with
its picturesque sailing boats and the per-
fume of Southern bloom.
	We found upon our arrival at Miss Bar-
ton’s home that she was much better in
health and really glad to see us, chatted
pleasantly a little about herself, as the
ladies drew her out, and finally was per-
suaded to show us some of her gifts and


medals given her by royalty and distin-
guished people of the nobility of foreign
lands and our own, in recognition of her
work for suffering humanity. Miss Bar-
ton’s name is not only engraven on medals
of honor and precious gifts set with jewels,
but on the hearts of many thousands at
home and abroad, never to be obliterated.
She is a Yankee of the old Bay State, born
in Oxford. She is small with rather strong
features and unpretentious and unassuming
in appearance, but great and heroic in soul
and in purpose, and with the ability to cope
with all adverse conditions and bring order
out of chaos. A rare woman of extraordin-
ary endowments, she has blazed the way for
her sisters of the Red Cross, who have the
courage to follow in her footsteps.
	On the afternoon of the same day we at-
tended a reception given by Mrs. J. Ellen
Foster, at the “Portner,” where we met
many more ladies and a few gentlemen, and
had an encounter, so to speak, with a
Methodist minister who knew the Rev. T.
C. Iliff, and had visited Utah. We invited
him to come again and see for himself and
get facts.
	Mrs. Foster’s guests of honor were two
cousins of hers, Miss Houghton, of Cali-
fornia, and Mrs. Bradbury, of Boston, very
interesting and intellectual women, whom
she wished to present to her friends.
Among the ladies who attended were several
we had met before, but many were total
strangers. Mrs. Olive Logan, whom we
had met at the Republican reception, well
known as a writer and speaker, and sister
of the late Gen. Logan; she has recently
married quite a handsome young man,
(though she is advanced in years) who has
taken her name, and seems very proud to be
the husband of so eminent a woman.
Another celebrated woman present whom
we knew very well, was Mrs. Ida Husted
Harper, of Indianapolis, who spends her
winters in Washington, a famous writer and
brilliant journalist. She made one of the
best speeches, if not the best, at the Inter-
national Congress of Women in 1899. Mrs.
Harper wrote the Life of Susan B. Anthony
and is now engaged to write (indeed has be-
gun the work) the Fourth Volume of
Woman’s Suffrage. We met in Washing-
ton also Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, our
good friend when we first visited conven-
tions in that city, and Mrs. Ellen Spencer
Mussey, a woman lawyer who holds many
responsible positions of honor; Mrs. Belva
A. Lockwood, a dear old and tried friend;
Marilla M. Ricker, firm as the everlasting
hills in friendship and fidelity, and Dr. Kate
Waller Barrett, with whom we dined at her
own home in Alexandria, a home full of
beautiful things and a jolly, happy family
of young people; Mrs. Fannie Humphreys
Gaffney, President of the National Council
of the United States, and her husband and
charming daughter, Jayta.
	Of other noted people and historic places in
Washington, Baltimore and New York, we
will tell you more anon.


