EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have a number of anniversary meet-
ings held in March that we are unable to
find space for at this time, and we also have
held over the minutes of the General Relief
Society Conference, but they will be pub- 
lished during the present mouth. There is
also much other matter on hand, but we
hope to use it all within a reasonable time.
	By request of Mrs. May Wright SeWall,
who represents the United States on the
International Peace Commission of Women,
it is expected the women of Utah will
arrange for meetings on Peace and Arbi-
tration on Saturday, May 18. Certainly
our sisters throughout the state are in favor
of creating a sentiment for peace. A call
will soon be issued through the local papers.
	We are sure the sisters everywhere wil
be delighted to know that Sister Zina D.
H. Young, President of the Relief Society,
has recovered from her recent severe illness,
which prostrated her for a few days, alarmed
some of her friends and prevented her at-
tending the General Conference of the Relief
Society held in April in the Assembly Hall,
in this city. We all rejoice to see her again
in our midst and trust her health and
strength may be equal to the duties and re-
sponsibilities of the honorable position she
occupies in the Church.
	On April 11, 1901, at the residence of
Mrs. Alonzo E. Hyde, in this city, a num-
ber of ladies met, by invitation of Mrs.
Hyde, in honor of the birthday of her
revered mother, who passed away recently,
and organized a society which they named
“The Daughters of the Pioneers.” We
hope to give particulars and names of
officers in the next issue of the Exponent.
Mrs. Hyde is at present in Logan, and
consequently we have not been able to get
the proper notice to publish.
	The workers in the Salt Lake Temple
and a few friends gave a party in the Bee
Hive House, April 3, President Lorenzo
Snow’s eighty-seventh birthday anniversary,
and with congratulations, music, floral
tributes and other beautiful things and
choice sentiments, spent a few hours happi-
ly in honoring this venerable leader of the
hosts of Israel. The Exponent adds its
sincere congratulations and hopes and trusts
he may live yet many years in health and
strength and fully accomplish the work as-
signed to him of the Lord.
	Mrs. L. M. Hewlings, who died at the
Cannon House, in this city, April 23, 1901,
was a very remarkable woman. Our readers
will remember her through her writing for
the Exponent, and the poem “Crumbling”
published in the last issue of the paper was
composed by her during her last illness. A
brief sketch of her life will be given later.
She was the sister of the editor, and has
written occasionally for our paper for more
than twenty years, and as she never re-
ceived any remuneration for her writings
except a copy of the paper, we feel it only
just and proper she should become better


known to our readers through some inter-
esting incidents in her life. Mrs. Hewlings
was a philanthropist in the true sense of the
word.


