SISTER JANE BALLANTYNE TAYLOR.

A mother in Israel has gone to her rest,
	She has said her farewell to loved ones so dear, , 
Across the bright river in realms of the blest,
	She was welcomed by those who loved her while
		here.

Dear friends, do not sorrow, her trials are o’er,
She has fought the good fight, the battle is won,
Anon you will meet her on that golden shore,
And she’ll joyfully echo the plaudit, “Well
		done.”

	For such women as Sister Jane Taylor
there is joy unspeakable in meeting those
hear ones who have gone before, but to
those who remain the loss is great of the
presence in the home. The angelic spirit
that characterized her whole life was more
than an example, it was like sweet incense
the household. She has gone from her
earthly home, we shall hear her sweet voice
no more, nor see her smile of welcome.
	Yet we can never forget her saintly man-
ner and loving spirit, always the same gentle
welcome to her friends.
	As she lay in her white robes in the
beautiful casket, she wore the same sweet
smile and looked like a bride going to the
marriage altar. The floral tributes of
loving children, grandchildren and friends
seemed as fitting for this queenly mother as
though she were indeed going on a wedding
tour. The purity and integrity of her long
life are a bright example to the young
women of Zion.
			 ---------
Sister Jane Ballantyne Taylor was born
April 11, 1813, in Sheffield, near Edinburg,
Scotland. Her father was David Ballantyne
and her mother Annie Bannerman Ballan-
tyne. Richard Ballantyne, famous in
Sunday School work in early days in the
valley, and until his demise, not long ago,
was her brother. The Ballantyne family
embraced the Gospel in Scotland in 1842.
	In 1843 they emigrated to America and
were seven weeks in crossing the ocean to
New Orleans. They went direct to Nauvoo
and February 25, 1844, Miss Ballantyne be-
came the wife of the late President John
Taylor. The marriage ceremony was per-
formed by Patriarch Hyrum Smith. Sister
Taylor shared in all the trials, hardships and
sufferings of the troublous times. At the time
of the exodus irom Nauvoo she crossed the
Mississippi river, walking over it the whole
distance, when at every step the ice cracked
under her feet. The weather was intensely
cold, the Saints were not well provided with
shelter and Sister Taylor, with another

[Column Two]
sister, sat up in a wagon the whole night, as
there was not room to lie down, but no
murmur escaped her lips. During the
arduous journey from Nauvoo to the Mis-
souri river, and the prolonged stay at
Winters Quarters, she, in common with
others, bad much to endure, but her faith
never wavered, she was willing to endure
the trials to gain her experience, and to
earn an exaltation hereafter.
	Her faith in the Gospel was firm and
steadfast, never doubting the goodness of
God, always hopeful and patient under
even the severest trials.
	President Taylor and family came across
the plains from the Missouri river to the
Salt Take Valley in 1847, in the first com-
pany behind the pioneers, so that Sister Jane
Taylor was a real pioneer.
	Annie, her eldest child, was born in
October, 1849, just as her husband was
leaving to go on amission to France, and
the family were very scantily provided for.
But Sister Taylor with her sublime faith
and trust in God was nothing daunted, and
then, as always, thanked God for His good-
ness and trusted on. A noble, heroic
woman, in every way worthy the name of
Saint.
	Her youngest son, David John, died very
suddenly while in New York on business in
the summer of 1881, leaving a young wife
and babe. His mother bore this trial as
she had all others, with heroic complacency,
acknowledging the hand of God even in
this seemingly lamentable occurrence. She
leaves one son, Richard B. Taylor, who
resides in Ogden, and one daughter, Annie,
wife of Alonzo E. Hyde, of this city, many
grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
It was at her daughter’s residence that she
passed away, having resided there ever
since her husband’s death in 1887. Her
children, Richard and Annie, and her eldest
grandchildren were wiih her to the last.
She fell asleep without a struggle on the
morning of Tuesday, December 26, 1900,
at the age of eighty-seven years eight
months and fifteen days. Sister Taylor
leaves one sister almost her own age, Sister
Annie Quayle, of Ogden.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord,
yea, from henceforth, for their works follow
them.”
	Sister Taylor was a woman of generous
impulses and gave much to the needy, and.
she was especially charitable in heir estimate
of the character of others. It is said of her
that she never spoke evil of any one; silence
was her habit when there was gossip or
islander of one’s character, unless she could
refute what was being said. In reviewing
her life, her virtues shine out most conspicu-
ously, though she was of a very retiring
disposition, the old-fashioned type, as
Milton says in “Paradise Lost,”

	“Nothing lovelier can be found.
In woman than to study household good,
	And good works in her husband to promote.”
				---------
	The funeral services were held Thusday,
December 28, at the residence of her
daughter, Bishop George H. Taylor presid-
ing. The opening hymn, “I need Thee
every hour,” was sweetly rendered by a
quartette of male voices. Prayer was offered
by Elder Rodney C. Badger, and the next
hymn very feelingly sung was “Nearer my
God to Thee.”
	The remarks made by the speakers were
appropriate and telling. Bishop Taylor
made opening remarks followed by Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon and Apostle John

[Column Three]

W. Taylor. Then Mrs. Maggie Hull sang
sympathetically, in her clear voice, without
accompaniment, the good old hymn, “I
know that my Redeemer lives.” After-
wards Apostle John Henry Smith and
President Joseph F. Smith made very
consoling and impressive remarks, and
the quartette sang “We shall meet Beyond
the River.” Benediction by Counselor
Arthur Barnes of the Bishopric of the ward.
A large number of people, relatives and
friends followed the deceased to her last
resting place in the city cemetery. The
grave was dedicated by Elder John W.
Taylor.

E. B. W.


