[Column 1]
		DOMESTIC SCIENCE.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	Some people are vaguely alarmed and
others are mildly sarcastic when the term
domestic science is used. Why, say the
first, should we invade the sacred precincts
of the home, and try to fashion and shape
into laws that which God has given
women and men divine instinct to perfect?
Those who choose to be sarcastic, say flip-
pantly, “I can sweep a floor, make bread
and keep house as well as any woman in
this town, and what’s the use of people
making a fad out of this domestic science?
My mother taught me how to wash by
making me do it, and that’s the way I am
teaching my daughters; I have no need for
classes in a school, nor clubs, nor books
even; any women with ‘get up’ in her can
keep house.”
	Just so women talked about sewing
when Elias Howe went into his little shop
to study out the principle of the shuttle.
But science did not wait for the woman who
was a hundred years behind the times; the
sewing machine was perfected by Howe,
and the poorest as well as the most con-
servative women of today uses the tool of
science to hasten her flying needle.
	The man or the woman in this Church
who is narrow and bigoted has not yet
grasped the true meaning of the Gospel.
Progression is the key to the door of
heaven. What made and makes Joseph
Smith, Brigham Young and Lorenzo Snow
the peers of the most advanced theorists of
the Church and of the world today? Their
power of receptivity. The wisdom and
prescience which gleans out the truth
from every so called fad and uses it to the
utmost advantage.
	No one grows old who remains pro-
gressive.
	Domestic science is merely the term
which is used to cover all the labors and
problems of home life. To discuss these
labors, to solve these problems, this is
what many wise and noble men and
women are doing all over the civilized
world.
	Every woman, rich or poor, is ready to
admit that housework is drudgery. This is
hardly true, either. It is work, hard work
and taxing work; work that requires for its
perfect service, a wide capacity and great
physical strength. But it can only be
drudgery to the ignorant or to the mean.
Work is the salvation, the solace, the hope
and even the redemption, in a way, of
mankind.
	Now, less than a hundred years ago, men
grasped the thought that almost all classes
of hand labor, in their own sphere of activ-
ity, could be better accomplished by the
use of suitable machines. Before this, inven-

[Column 2]
tions were sought mostly for transportation, or
for the acquisition of wealth; for this latter
purpose the science of alchemy—as chemistry
was then called—was devoted chiefly to the
search for transforming metals into gold, or
similar purposes.
	It is not very long since men discovered
that farm labor, from the planting of wheat
to the making of butter, could better be
done by steel and steam than by the tedious
hand work of the centuries.
	Men, naturally, made haste to devise ways
and means to throw down their own heavy
and rude implements of toil, and to pick up in
their stead the light handles and electrical
buttons of modern machinery.
	Women’s toil has also been lessened and
lightened. The spinning, weaving, candle-
making, knitting, sewing, canning, milk-
ing, churning and many other old-time
house duties, have been taken from the
hands of women by iron wheels and
leathern bands.
	But, alas, neither men nor women have
any more time to devote to the intellectual
or the spiritual culture of their three-fold
natures, nor, indeed, have they as much.
The poor man of today has wants and
needs which even the king on his throne
never so much as yearned for two hundred
years ago.
	Life has become far more complicated
with all these conditions and instead of
severe simplicity of diet, dress and amuse-
ment being the characteristic of the poor and
the ignorant, as it once was, it is now
rather the mark of the truly refined and in-
telligent. For now, in direct contrast to
life fifty years ago, the struggle is, not to
break away from the naturalness and health-
fullness of a simple home life, but to resist
the current of mad recklessness and extrava-
gant worldliness which sweeps with deafen-
ing force against the very doors of the
home itself.
	Those who, in the world, are studying
this question of domectic science, are more
deeply concerned with the increase of
facilities for more and better equippe
domestic labor than with the simplyfying
the home life.
	But the true Latter-day Saint recognizes
the fact that there is no place in the religion
of Christ for bond and free, nor for mistress
and maid. All serve, all are servants.
There are the young and inexperienced,
and the matured and wise; that is all!
	Yet, caught with the whirlwind of fashion
and frivolity which is sweeping over the
earth, we, too, have our domestic problems.
And not all of these problems are due to
worldliness, some are the natural conse-
quence of the economic conditions of the
day. However, our problems are different
in many ways and we must study them
from our own point of view.
	We are told that our principal mission on
this earth is to save souls. Not alone to be
saved, remember, but to save others.
Saviors upon Mount Zion! It is a term of
solemn import! No trifling, no carelessness
of purpose nor act should be found in the
mature Latter-day Saint.
	Souls to save! Either by love and ser-
vice to the living, or by service and love for
the dead! Is not that our mission?
	The Elders of our people have this same
mission upon them, and they, too, have
their problems to meet and solve. But the
women have theirs, and it is to them we
should turn our attention with zeal and de-
votion.

[Column 3]
	Is it sufficient that women shall rear and
train a family of children? Perhaps. But
there may be twenty-five years before she be-
gins, and twenty-five years after she is
through that are her own; and if she does
nothing before and nothing after towards
the salvation of other souls besides the
children of her own body, she will be a
small factor in the preservation and exalta-
tion of herself and her own.
	And what is it that prevents the women
of this people from entering fully into the
service of Christ? Is it the rearing of chil-
dren? Nay, only about one half of them,
young, mature aad old are mothers of
families. Ask any candid, intelligent
woman this question, and whether she be
the mother of a family or not, she will
frankly answer, “It is my housework that
keeps me tied ever at home.”
	Men have accepted work as a blessing;
women have multiplied work to themselves
when they were relieved of former burdens.
What then is the duty of our women?
	To study their own conditions, to prayer-
fully consider the possible solution of the
vexed problem of housework and to pre-
pare themselves to be true exponents of
Domestic Science, while they labor side by
side with husband and son as saviors on
Mount Zion.


