[Column 1]
	Sister Horne welcomed the sisters, of
whom there was a large number present.
Spoke in her usual kind, motherly way a
few moments. Told the sisters to do their
duty and lay up treasures in heaven.
	There being so many more present at the
afternoon meeting Sister Annie T. Hyde
announced the forming of classes in parlia-
mentary usage, and urged the sisters to at
least send one representative from each
ward.
	Sister Julia C. Howe appreciated the
fellowship of her sisters, said it is a day of
progression, also a day of trial. In every
position we should do our duty, temporally
and spiritually. Spoke of the Relief
Society as being the parent society. En-
larged on the numberless duties connected
with this society which we should give our
close attention. Advised the sisters to
seek the Lord for His help to assist them to
perform the requirements made of them.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson said it is a
blessing and a comfort to mingle with the
Latter-day Saints. She was truly thankful
to be one of the people. Likened the meet-
ings of the sisters to the school of the
prophets, as the things we learn here are
such as we could not learn any where else.
Spoke of the day of trial which would surely
come upon us, thought we should cultivate
kindness and every good quality of character
and prepare ourselves for the great work of
the future.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze said she was
pleased to be present, felt blest in the
privilege of associating with good men and
women. Told of the anxiety of those who
could not visit the Temples and be in con-
stant association with the prophets of the
Lord. Hoped we would all appreciate the
great blessings which we enjoy. Seeking
for the spirit is the proper way and will
bring us into possession of that spirit, and
our Father alone can read the heart, and as
long as we keep the faith it will finally lead
us aright.
	Sister Ruth M. Fox bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and spoke
of trials as being stepping stones to glory,
thought they prepared us for the future and
rendered us more broad and useful. Be-
lieved that happiness meant work and work
meant happiness. We want to overcome our
trials and not let them overcome us.
Thought it an honor to be a member of the
Relief Society and a greater honor to be a
member of the Church. Asked the Lord to
bless every one of the sisters in their efforts
to do right.
	A beautiful solo was rendered by Sister
Maggie Hull, the song was entitled “When
I get to the end of the way.”
	Sister Lula Greene Richards hoped when
“we get to the end of the way” we would
have the same sweet singers to greet us.
Advised the sisters to have a reccomend
ready to go to the Temple and take ad-
vantage of it occasionally. Believed we all
desired to have our children taught in the
way of the Lord. Likened the spirit in the
Temple to the spirit of a kind parent, and

[Column 2]
was afraid we were not appreciating the
privilege of the Temple and the good we
get there.
	Brother C. J. Thomas rejoiced to hear
the good remarks which had been made.
While he had not seen the Prophet Joseph
he had seen and heard many glorious and
wonderful things, Was thankful for the
honor and the privilege of being called as a
worker in the Temple. Said the Lord is in
waiting and urging us to attend to the
glorious Temple privileges.
	In her closing remarks Sister Horne said:
“We are very anxious for our sons, but
what of our daughters? Is not their mis-
sion as great as any other, and perhaps
greater? They bring the souls of the
generations of men to earth. Their mission
is wonderful and the sisters should be en-
couraged in their duties.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
The quartette sang, “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.” The singing was a very
enjoyable feature of the afternoon’s exer-
cises. Closing prayer by Sister Sarah
Phelps.
