[Column 1]
A DOUBLE BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
	The 31st of January, 1900, was made
memorable by the General Board of the
Relief Society whose members celebrated
appropriately the birthday of the President
and Vice-President of the organization.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, the President,
was born on January 31st, 1821, and was
consequently 80 years of age. Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, First Vice-President, was born
on January 31st, 1823, two years later.
	Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Richards opened their
handsome and commodious residence on A
Street, in this city, for the birthday party
which was set for 2 p. m., Thursday the
31st. The parlors and library were beauti-
fully decorated with vines and white carna-
tions, the design being principally green
and white, though pink and American
beauty roses were disposed tastefully in
suitable places and added to the brilliancy
of the effect. The two honored guests of
the occasion were seated side by side in the
front parlor, where they received the con-
gratulations of their distinguished friends.
	President Lorenzo Snow and wife were
among the first to arrive. President George
Q. Cannon and wife, President Joseph F.
Smith and wife, Apostle Brigham Young
and wife, Apostle John Henry Smith and
wife, Bishop John R. Winder and wife and
Mrs. W. B. Preston, President Angus M.
Cannon and wife, President Joseph E. Tay-
lor and wife, President C. W. Penrose and wife,
Bishop O. F. Whitney, Mrs. Robert Pat-
rick, Counselor Wm. Barton and wife; also
Mrs. Julia C. Howe, Mrs. Mary Alice
Lambert, Mrs. William Jennings, Mrs.
Elizabeth Webb and Dr. E. S. Barney; also
Mrs. N. Twiss Young, Margaret P. and
Amelia F. Young and Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall, Mr. Chariton Jacobs and wife, and his
son, Zebulon and wife. The Ogden party
were Hon. C. C. Richards and Mrs. Josephine
R. West, Mrs. D. H. Perry, Mrs. William
Driver and Professor Moench and wife, Mr.
and Mrs. Walker West, Mr. and Mrs. John
Herrick, Elder Samuel W. Richards and
wife, Mrs. Maria W. Wilcox, Mrs. H. P.
Richards, Mrs. Heber John Richards, Elder
Levi W. Richards and wife, Mr. and Mrs.
W. B. Dougall, Mr. Hugh Dougall, Mrs.
Mary C. Cannon, Misses Grace and Vera
Cannon and Miss Clarice Dougall.
	Two distinguished guests were Elder
Nathan Tanner, father of Mrs. F. S. Rich-
ards, and his sister, Mrs. Maria Lyman,
mother of Apostle F. M. Lyman. Of the
General Board, besides the two senior presi-
dents mentioned, there were Presidents
Bathsheba W. Smith and Sarah Jane Can-
non, E. B. Wells, Romania B. Pratt, Susan
Grant, Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Richards,
Rebecca Standring, Julia P. M. Farnsworth,
Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Annie T. Hyde.
	There were a number of others invited who
for various reasons could not be present, but
the party was an exceedingly pleasant one

[Column 2]
and all seemed to enjoy meeting the two
veteran women, whose good works of love 
and charity and benevolence are known 
throughout Israel.
	At one long table in the library were 
seated Sisters Zina Young and Jane S.
Richards and President and Mrs. Snow, 
President and Mrs. Cannon, President and 
Mrs. Smith, Brigham and Mrs. Young, 
John Henry and Mrs. Smith, Sisters B. W. 
Smith and Amelia F. Young, Mrs. Maria
Lyman and Mr. Nathan Tanner, Sen.
	Small tables in the parlors accommodated
the other guests. President Snow pro-
nounced the blessing. The dinner was de-
licious and admirably served. During the
dinner telegrams of congratulation were
read from absent members of the family and 
from friends. Also some letters containing
both congratulations and regrets for absence.
	After the guests had partaken of the
bounteous repast tables were cleared and
President Snow was invited to make a few
remarks. He responded briefly, speaking
of the long acquaintance he had enjoyed
with the sisters whose birthday was
being celebrated and congratulating them
upon the success they had made of their
life work, and wishing them happiness and
long life here and an eternity of glory
hereafter. Alluded to the mothers in
heaven and referred to the beautiful hymn
of his sister, Eliza, with which he believed
we were all familiar.
	President George Q. Cannon spoke next.
He eulogized the lives of these good 
sisters, and alluded to the trials through
which they had passed without wavering in 
their faith, and dwelt much on the integrity
of the Saints, who had endured suffering for
principle and to establish righteousness.
	President Joseph F. Smith followed in a
similar strain, noting the great strength of
character, fortitude and endurance of the 
women who had helped to lay the founda-
tion of righteous principles in the early 
days, and of the great blessings in store for
the faithful mothers in Israel. He also 
congratulated them on having lived so 
many years in such wonderful times, having
known the Prophet Joseph and others who 
had succeeded him, and said many more 
good and excellent things.
	Sister Zina responded in a few words of
grateful appreciation and spoke of her long
experience in the Church and her great love
for the Latter-day Saints and the work of 
the last days.
	Elder Hugh Dougall then sang “The
Holy City,” and thrilled every heart pres- 
ent with the melody of his superb voice.
	Elder John Henry Smith made a brief 
address representing the quorum of the
Apostles.
	Bishop John R. Winder spoke briefly and
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith expressed her
love for the work in a few well chosen
words, alluding to the days of Joseph and
some of her own personal experiences, and
her deep appreciation of the blessings en-
joyed by the Saints.
	Elder Nathan Tanner, who was one of
the oldest member in the Church, gave a 
few of his ideas of the past and present of 
the Latter-day work.
	Elder Samuel W. Richards was one of 
the speakers and gave some reminiscences 
of his acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph. 
	Elder Dougall, by request, rendered 
another sacred song entitled, “The Palms,”
his voice and expression doing ample justice 
to the theme and delighting the audience. 
Poems were read by Sisters Susa Young


Gates, L. L. Greene Richards and Ruth
inda H. Moench. Mrs. Richards poem
appears in this number, the others will be
given in a later number.
	President Jane S. Richards in a few
appropriate remarks expressed her feelings
at the honor shown and spoke of her great
love for the Relief Society work in which
she delighted and urged the younger sisters
to become acquainted with the labors of the
sisters who were now actively engaged
in the organization.
	During the evening souvenir cards with a
very small picture of Mrs. Young and Mrs.
Richards were given each guest. The cards
were tied with white ribbon and contained a
motto suited to the work in which they have
spent so many years. Sister Zina’s motto is
"Charity never faileth,” Sister Richard’s,
“He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord.”
	At the close of the impromptu exercises,
for no program had been prepared before-
hand by the committee, the audience stand-
ing sang “Praise God from whom all bless-
ings flow,” and Patriarch John Smith pro-
nounced the benediction.
	The spirit of the gathering was heavenly
and the party was certainly one to be re-
membered by all who were present. The
committee of the General Board of the Re-
lief Society feel grateful to all, who by their
presence and their generous words of appre-
ciation and blessing upon these noble and
devoted mothers in Israel, added to the suc-
cess of the entertainment, and especially ex-
press their thanks for the hospitality of
Brother and Sister F. S. Richards who so
generously gave their home and heartily
welcomed the invited guests.
	The General Board only regretted that so
many were absent that had been invited,
and that it was not possible to entertain all
the dearly beloved friends, associates and
fellow-laborers of Sisters Young and Rich-
ards, who have given so many years of
faithful service for the advancement of
women in all that pertains to a higher life
here and an exaltation hereafter.


