	FRISCO RELIEF SOCIETY.

	In obedience to a call from Stake Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Beaver
Stake, Sister C. C. Shepherd, the sisters
and a fair showing of the brethren met in
the Frisco school house August  1900, at
9:30 a. m., with a view of organizing a
society.
	Elder William Ashworth presided. The
congregation sang "We thank Thee, O
God, for a prophet." Brother S. A. Chase
offered the opening prayer. Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel."
Brother Ashworth spoke of organization
[column 3]
and reminded us that we were here to do
good, then turned the meeting into the
hands of the sisters.
	President Shepherd was pleased to see so
many present, but would have been better
pleased if there had been more. Said they
were instructed to come and organize, if the
people wanted. a Relief Society, thought
much good could be done here. "If the
sisters will do their duty the Lord will
bless them and they can do a great deal of
good."
Brother Ashworth put a vote to find how
many were willing to organize, and all were
favorable.
	Then came the question of a president
and Sister Adams nominated Sister Matilda
Olsen. A vote was finally taken and Sister
Olsen unanimously sustained.
	Comments were made and a vote taken
that we have one organization and hold
meetings alternately here and at the mine.
	Sister Olsen chose as counselors Sister
M. E. Adams and Sister Crassiah Jones.
	A secretary was called for, but the matter
was deferred. Sister Margaret Jones was
chosen treasurer.
	Matilda Olsen was then set apart as
president, Sister M. E. Adams as first
counselor, Sister Crassiah Jones as second
counselor and Sister Margaret Jones as
treasurer.
	It was then moved and seconded that
Sister Clara Griffith be secretary. Carried.
She was set apart.
	Sister M. A. White spoke, showing how
we should love each other and our God.
True happiness comes of God. The Lord
has always compassion with the sinner.
Our heavenly Father is the only judge. We
must exert our energies that we may fulfill
our duties. Was pleased with the election
of the president. People of energy are al-
ways busy. We must be wide awake
mothers and try to make our children better
than ourselves. Try to realize the responsi-
bility of motherhood. Spoke at length on
cheerfulness and control of self. Instil
truth and purity into our children. We
have duties to the sick and distressed.
Prayed God to bless our organization.
	Congregation sang "There is beauty all
around." Benediction by Brother William
Ashworth.
