[Column 1]
	I have sometimes thought that if our
Father in Heaven were to deal with his re-
fractory and disobedient children in the per-
emptory way some intelligent parents do
with theirs, there would be a great change
come into the world suddenly.
	I am quite sure, however, I was not asked
or expected to write a dissertation upon the
training of children, but simply to tell you
of the child of nature.

I tell the story old, creation’s song
	Thrilling the mother-heart the ages down
New every day as centuries roll along,
	The height-of motherhood—the crown.

Fresh from the royal courts far, far away.
	All duly poised whither in winged flight,
There came a fairy creature—bless the day!
	Into the motherland of glad delight.

This beauteous one brought hither joy and grace
	And made the dream of life more radiant still,
Than erst had been that happy home and place,
	Though sacred were its duties to fulfill.

The beauty of the little babe bespoke
	The harmonies which to the soul belong,
And all the higher, finer senses woke
	To the divinest melody of song.

	It is thus the little child comes into our
midst, first into the home nest, but gradu-
ally into the great, busy, bustling, worka-
day world. It comes to know evil where it
may perchance have thought all was good
—finally it knows temptation, and, oh, how
terrible if it is not wisely taught, and care-
fully guarded. If reared in a home where
simplicity of living is the rule of life, and
thrift and honesty and all the homely
virtues are inculcated in its daily associa-
tions, where vanity, pride and prejudice
are things unknown, and freedom of
thought and action encouraged and strength-
ened by healthy exercise of mind and
body, and above all where reverence for
all that is sacred is taught in precept and
by example—then indeed are the environ-
ments such as must naturally tend to make
the child.

“A thing of beauty and a joy forever.”

	And true to my own theory of one’s past
clinging to the personal character or devel-
opment, here let me say, the child allowed
to roam, or one inclined to be much in the
haunts of nature, grows in a sense akin to
its surroundings, and these rural scenes,
these pageants of nature, these magnificent
panoramas, help the child to enter, as it
were, into the Temple of glory “through
the gate called Beautiful.” Who would
dare to say this admiration of the works of
an Almighty hand do not lift the soul of
the child into loftier heights and feast itself
in the realms that are fresh with the im-
press of Him, who has made all things by
His infinite skill and divine power? Thus
Gray, the poet, says:

"The meanest floweret of the vale,
The simplest note that swells the gale,
The common rain, the air, the skies.
To him are opening Paradise.”

	The love of nature is a great gift, and
one for which no description can prepare
us so well, as to be in a sense, to the man-
ner born. The greatest thing in the world
is to see something, and yet one might
fancy from what we know of some people
that they had walked through the world
with their eyes shut, or at any rate
with them closely veiled.
	In nature we have the most wonderful
variety. It is more than pictures on the
walls or in the galleries, for they are al-
ways the same, but outdoor life, whether in
the heavens or on the earth, is changing

[Column 2]
every day, every hour, or every moment.
Evidently, as one great writer has said,
“The material world was not made ex-
clusively for the purpose of being painted.”
	But here again I fear I am digressing,
and I was not expected to talk about art,
and really were I to launch into color there
is no telling what extravagances I might
indulge in, because it is one of my pet
hobbies.
	I would not wish that the child might
grow up in the woods in order that it
might be good, nor yet would I reason that
one reared in a crowded city would for that
cause alone be bad; but one cannot help
recognizing the effect of the wonderful
pageantry of nature upon those who have
lived much in its realm. One need not go
far for illustrations, not that we are not in
favor of progress in its modern sense, but
if we look at the men (leaving women out
of the question) who have helped to move
the world onward, we must of necessity re-
fer to those that have been brought up,
one might almost say, to use a homely
phrase, “in the backwoods.”
	For instance, Brigham Young, whose
ideas of progress in almost all directions are
to be seen today on every hand, who
founded this great institution of learning
from which so many students have gone
forth into the great world to build up homes
and colonies and establish industries, and to
preach the Gospel to those that sit in dark-
ness, was born and reared in the Green
Mountains of Vermont, and remember those
were not bare mountains like ours, but
covered with dense forests, from which the
great trees were hewed down to make a
clearing for human habitation. Brother Smoot
the president so many years of this Stake of
Zion, and whose record is engraven on the
hearts of the people here, is another illustra-
tion of the same idea, tho’ he lived in a
different part of the country but where it
was new and wild and primitive.
	Abraham Lincoln, of the same type,
was another of the stalwarts born
to just such an inheritance. The founders
of this Church were nearly all of them men
reared among the scenes of nature and
acquainted with the hardships of outdoor
life, as well as gifted with the rich heritage
of the love of nature’s haunts. I recall
vividly to mind more than one of these
Nature’s noblemen who delighted in the
poems of nature, because it brought back
recollections of the scenes of childhood and
youth—the woods, the brooks, the hills, the
rocks, the wild flowers, the songbirds, the
meadows, the mosses and the ferns. And
these things impress even the strong
natures of men, making them gentle, kindly
and thoughtful, not only of human beings,
but of animals. Such a one was Brigham
Young. He treated his animals' with the
utmost kindness and consideration.
	In these days of the craze for fresh air
one would naturally suppose that the chil-
dren would incline to the studies and
beauties of scenery in its wilder character,
instead of which it seems apparent nowadays
that cricket and football and such like
games are the order of the day much to the
regret, I had almost said disgust, of the
tender-hearted mothers, and I might add
the hard-worked, over-burdened mothers,
who have not only the tending of their
wounds and bruises, but the mending of
their jerseys and trousers.
	The Roman proverb that a child should
be taught nothing but what it can learn

[Column 3]
standing up, went no doubt into an extreme,
but surely we in this day fall into another
error, or an extreme equally dangerous,
when we act as if athletic ames were
the only thing which boys could learn upon
their feet. The love of athletic games
among boys may be a healthy instinct, but
is, in our opinion, carried too far in some of
our great scho[-]ls.
	Our children born here, though not
brought up in the woods, have yet an
intimate association with the beauties of
nature. We have as yet no densely-
crowded cities, but lofty mountains whose
snowy peaks seem to reach to the skies, the
canons that are full of beauty and of variety,
waterfalls, rivers, brooklets, lakes and an
inland sea of surpassing beauty, the wonder
and surprise of tourists and scientists; an
abundance of fresh air and lands to culti-
vate and make beautiful and servicable.
	The character of our children, brought up
among such scenes of nature’s manifold
grandeur, should be of surpassing excel-
lence. They should excel in all the virtues
that are most useful and desirable. They
should and must, for it is the prophecy of
the future, become physically, mentally,
morally and spiritually the greatest states-
men, heroes, scholars, scientists, artists,
linguists and preachers of righteousness the
world has ever produced; the best and
wisest fathers, the tenderest, gentlest and
noblest mothers, examples and teachers of
all mankind. Such is to be their high
destiny, and in view of the fulfillment of
all these things, how shall we order their
lives aright? Temperance and moderation in
all the habits and pursuits of childhood;
healthy exercise upon the farm, or in the
field a part of the year, not too much close
confinement in the schoolroom all the year
round, but leave some development to
nature and obeying nature’s laws. Study
some things from the great book of nature,
as well as from the books of men.

"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society where none intrudes,
By the deep sea, and music in its roar;
I love not man the less but nature more,
From these our interviews from which I steal
From all I may be or have been before,
To mingle with the universe and feel
What I can ne’er express, yet cannot all conceal."


