[Column 1]
	Sister Lucy Heppler said, “No doubt all
have taken in the spirit of this conference.”
Spoke of this conference, and of the in-
fluence of these meetings; of life and work
of mothers at home and the many duties
devolving upon us. Was glad to hear good
reports. Spoke of the famine in India,
flood in Galveston, also of returning to
Jackson County and of the second coming
of Christ. Said, “Of course we must have
a house, to be a beacon to the world. Let
us go on in this great work. The evil one
is trying to overcome our children, not only
teach but fast and pray for our children.”
	President Sorenson made closing remarks.
She was pleased with the instructions given.
Spoke of the money to be gathered for the
house.
	Minutes read and approved. A vote of
thanks was given to Brother Jones and
choir. Singing, “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Sister Laura
Staples.
			MARY SWINDLE, Sec.
R. S. HAWAIIAN MISSION.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Hawaiian Mission, held in the Laie
meeting house, October 5, 1900, President
Alice R. Woolley presiding.
	Meeting commenced by singing “Stars of
morning shout for joy.” Prayer by Sister
Kalua. Continued by singing “Ye who
are called to labor and minister for God.”
Minutes of last conference, held October 7,
1899, were read and approved.
	Sister Alice Woolley said, “Through the
mercies of our Heavenly Father we meet
again in our conference to be fed the bread
of life. I am thankful to our Heavenly
Father for His kindness during our past
lives. We meet together to encourage one
another and to listen to the instructions
that will be given us. We are a blessed
people in being privileged to live on the
earth in these last days, and we are receiv-
ing great blessings each day, and the great-
est of these blessings is the privilege we
have of embracing the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. We have been baptized into the
true Church as Jesus said was necessary,
as recorded in John third chapter fifth verse:
‘Unless a man is born of the water and of
the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom
of God.’ If we read the newspapers we
can see that the end is near at hand, there-
fore let us ever be on the watchguard.
During the month of June last, I in com-
pany with Sister Williams and Pualvia,
visited the Islands of Hawaii and Maui.
We visited among the people, encouraging
them and I was very much pleased to see
the interest the young girls were taking in
the Relief Society work. This is a work
that will help us as members of the Church
of Jesus Christ and I exhort you all, my
sisters, to be faithful, and may the Lord
bless us all.
	Ruth Kauhine, president of the Laie
society, reported said society in a good con-
dition. “We hold our meetings weekly,
have good programs and endeavor to take
care of the poor in our midst.”
	Sister Hattie Davis, of Awaiolimu, said
we observe Saturday of each week as our
meeting day, and we have a full attendance.
Our membership extends over one hundred.
We take care of the poor and needy, widows
and orphans and assist in taking care of our
missionaries.” She was very pleased to
meet again in this capacity.
	Sister Julia Wilder reports mission-

[Column 2]
ary labors in the Island of Kauai. Said
“We found the sisters in a favorable con-
dition, and as a rule the people were ener-
getic in their labors.”
	Sister Ellen Cole desired the faith and
prayers of all, that she might be able to say
something that would be beneficial to all
persent. I endorse the remarks of Sister
Wilder in regard to our labors in Kauai.
The Saints were kind, thoughtful of us, and
we did not suffer for anything that was nec-
essary for us to carry on our work.” She
felt thankful that she had been privileged
to spend a portion of her time among this
people, was thankful that we met today
nnder such favorable circumstances.
	Sister Oliver, of Waikiki, reported that
society as follows; “We meet each Thurs-
day of each week. Our society is fully
organized and I am pleased to say that a
goodly number of our members are here to-
day. We help the poor and needy and
there are some widows and orphans in our
midst, and we try to do our duty towards
them.”
	Three branches from Hawaii, six from
Maui and four from Kaui were reported by
their representatives as being in a prosper-
ous condition, all working unitedly and
striving to carry on this great work accep-
tably before our Heavenly Father.
	Sister Kealohapauole reported her mission
to Kohala and Hamakua, Hawaii, as suc-
cessful, followed by Maunahina, a mission-
ary to the same district. They traveled
among the people and tried to encourage
them in their labors, exhorted them to be
faithful. “We were blessed of the Lord on
our journey and did not lack for anything.”
	Sister Fernandez and company, of
Awaiolina, then favored us with a song,
“Beautiful Eden.”
	Sister Olive Pendleton was pleased to
meet with us today and asked the blessing
of the Lord upon ns all.
	Sister Williams made some encouraging
remarks and reported her labors on Hawaii
and Maui. Felt that she had been abund-
antly blessed of the Lord while she had been
on her mission. She had been privileged
to visit three of the Islands of this group
and met with the people in their homes as
well as in their meetings. She exhorted all
to be faithful and help with this great
work. Bore her testimony to the divinity
of the Gospel.
	The Kahana society was reported by
Poopuu.
	Sister Hannah Makanoe gave a descrip-
tion of her trip to Zion in company with her
mother. Gave a synopsis of her labors and
experience there. She was very much
affected, had come here on business and in-
tended to return to Zion where the re-
mains of her mother lie buried in Utah soil.
Spoke on the principle of gathering and of
the condition of Hawaiians at Josepa, Utah.
“In Zion we have trials, but they only
make us stronger.” Spoke of the blessings
to be obtained in the Temples. Exhorted
all to be faithful and to carry on the great
work our parents had begun.
	Sister Minerva Fernandez was thankful
she had been privileged to become a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ. We
are told he that has faith, repents and is
baptized, will be saved: but he that be-
lieveth not shall be condemned, She en-
dorsed the remarks made concerning the
young girls joining the society and assisting
in the great work.
	Sister Woolley made a few closing re-

[Column 3]
marks and meeting adjourned by singing-
and benediction by President Samuel E.
Woolley.
	Number present two hundred and sixty-
one.

	Monday morning, October 8, 1900, an
officers’ meeting was held at the Mission
House at nine o’clock. There were eighty
present, consisting of the local and visiting
sisters. The spirit of the Lord was with us
in rich abundance and a well prepared pro-
gram was rendered, consisting of songs,
speeches upon the principles of the Gospel,
and testimonies and encouraging words
from a number of the sisters. Some valu-
able instructions were given by President
Alice Woolley and Sister Williams concern-
ing the Relief Society work, its blessings
and benefits and the duties of the officers,
teachers and members in the same, and ex-
hortations to the mothers to teach their
children correct principles and to have faith
in the Priesthood of God, so that in times of
sickness they would rely upon the adminis-
trations of the servants of the Lord.
	After meeting a lunch was served by the
white sisters to all present, both to the sis-
ters and a large number of brethren who
had come to say “aloha nu” before leaving
for their several homes.
	A feeling of brotherly and sisterly love
was manifested by all and many were the
hearty handshakes and a God bless you as
we separated, feeling we had been fed with
the bread of life and that this was the best
conference we had ever had.
		ALICE R. WOOLLEY, Pres,
		ELIZABETH WILLIAMS, Cor. Sec.
	Laie, Oahu. NOV. 12, 1900.
GRANITE STAKE.
	The second quarterly conference of the
Reliet Society of Granite Stake was held
in the Taylorsville meeting house, Novem-
ber 10, 1901, President Emma S. Wood-
ruff presiding. Meeting convened at 10
o’clock a. m. Singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer was offered by Stake
Counselor Edwin Bennion. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Present on the stand were Stake Counse-
lor Edwin Bennion, President M. Isabella
Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Soci-
ety, President Woodruff, Counselors Mary
P. Young and Katharine H. Brockbank,
Secretary Armeda S. Young and Treasurer
Maria B. Winder, of the Granite Stake
Relief Society, President E. Pixton, of
Taylorsville, and most of the presidents of
the different wards were present.
	Roll called, showing all the Stake officers
present, 23; local officers 23. Minutes of
the morning session of the former confer-
ence, held August 1, 1900, read an
accepted.
	President Woodruff made opening re-
marks in her kind, welcoming way. She
was pleased with the minutes of the last
conference. Read a business letter from
the General Board relating to the Woman’s
Building. Made some very interesting re-
marks and gave instructions concerning
the building. Said they were very anx-
ious to get the foundation in this fall if
possible. Regretted being obliged to ab-
sent herself from the afternoon meeting,
but as the monument of President Wood-
ruff was to be dedicated that day she must
excuse herself. She felt proud of the sis-
ters of Granite Stake, and loved them. Re-
joiced in the kingdom of God and loved to


labor in the Relief Society. President
Taylor had said to her that it would be
impossible for him to be here today. She
had invited Sister Horne to come and com-
fort and bless us. Felt that every time we
could get her it added one more to our ad-
vantage. Prayed the Lord to bless us with
His Holy Spirit.
	President Sarah B. Gibson reported
Sugar Ward; President Jenson, Forest
Dale; President Turnbow, Farmers;
Counselor Hamilton, Mill Creek; President
Eliza Ann B. Neff reported East Mill
Creek and spoke of the faithful few she
could always depend on. Said obedience
is one of the first laws of heaven. Where
there is obedience there is no dissension.
Gave an account and explained the way
they managed their Fairs.
	President E. S. Woodruff said: “Sisters,
if you want to ask any questions about the
“house,” you can get instructions from
Sister Horne.”
	Miss Winnie Tibbs gave, with much
expression, a pleasing recitation.
	President Woodruff said: “I must now
bid you good bye, sisters, and God bless
you. I will leave Sister Mary Young to
preside.”
	Murray Ward was reported by President
Margaret Carruth; South Cottonwood by
Counselor Annie M. Thompson.
	President Pixton, of Taylorsville, said:
“Sisters, I feel well repaid by having the
conference here today and I am sorry our
Bishop is not here, but he is a good mem-
ber, the right man in the right place. The
erection of this Woman’s Building that has
been talked about I think is good. I hope
the project will meet with the greatest suc-
cess.”
	Counselor Mary P. Young said; “We
will leave the rest of the reports and give
the time to Brother Bennion.”
	Brother Bennion: “I hope I will be led
by the Spirit of the Lord in what I say.
All these societies in the Church are for
our betterment. Those who enjoy these
meetings are those who come regularly;
and if we attend all our duties regularly
we will receive the joy of it. The duty of
the sisters is to attend these meetings. I
believe those that stand up to speak are
more benefited, as they are supported by
their sisters and they receive peace and joy.
If we do every duty then we don't feel any
regret for a neglect.” He spoke of the
necessity of cultivating charity, referring
to the Apostle Paul’s teachings. “Paul in
writing to some of the Saints told what a
hard thing the tongue was to control.
Alexander the Great said that he who
can control himself is greater than he
who can control a city. In the Relief
Society work is the place to exercise the
gifts of faith, love, kindness and cheerful-
ness, as nothing gives such joy as to ad-
minister to others. The Savior, I believe,
had joy greater than any of us can con-
ceive, although he had great suffering.
Home is the place to begin to do good, to
love our neighbor and those around us. I
honor the sisters of Zion, especially these
aged ones who have been tried and proved.
They cannot receive too much honor. Let
us teach the young people to honor, love
and respect them. God bless you. Amen.”
	Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Conference adjourned till 2 p.
m. Benediction by President Elizabeth
Pixton.
		(To be continued.)


