[Column 1]
AN ALLEGORY.
	I stand on the narrow strip of land called
The Present, between the great Ocean of the
Past and the mighty Sea of the Future.
Behind me the circling waves stretch back-
ward into the fading distance of the un-
known. Before me the ripples break at my
feet, casting here and there a pebble or a
sparkling shell from the Eternal Shores.
There are great ships on the ocean behind
me, all sailing into my port of the Present;
some bear the name of Science, some of
Learning and some of Art; in most there is
the sound of pleasure and the incense of
selfish thought. How few there be that fly
the pennon of peace, and fewer still that
carry at their mast-head the Figure on the
Cross. They are laden with riches and
brightened with gold; but down, below the
decks, there are sighs and tears and helpless
creatures with no staff to lean upon. The
Captains boast of Honor and parade their
Virtues. I called these virtues up and
passed them in review before mine eyes;
Honesty led them, and Truth, which was
only Half-Truth, followed after. There
paced Sympathy and Benevolence; Mercy
and Justice were there, yet all looked some-
what queer, as if the face or vesture were
awry! I looked so carefully for Chastity;
and anon she came, but she bore a name in
her forehead, and I wondered! One half
of her was paralyzed! And then I knew
what had changed the others, for she was
mother of them all; each had inherited a
warped form, and Integrity was not their
father. Yet looking back into the mighty
past, I saw the ships bore better fruitage
than they did a thousand years ago, and I
was cheered!
	Before me lay a shell, with pink and deli-
cate tracery. I put it to mine ear and
listened! I heard the swift rush of softly
flying feet, and the sweet clamor of the
angelic multitude. ’Twas only a word
here and there that I caught, but in that
echo came insistently the sound, “Lo, the
Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
Him.” And ever and anon repeated, "He
cometh—cometh quickly!" And I looked
so eagerly at my lamp, which burned dim
and pale. The heartache of it! And then
the waves threw at my feet a smooth,
white pebble, and I took it up and cupped

[Column 2]
it in my hand. And then I saw as if in a
vision: a struggling, serious people, led by
a white-haired man; and I saw his heart and
it was pure like unto gold, and his eyes
were clear with the visions of Eternity
And he put out his hand, and the people
arose, here and there one. With one pur-
pose they came from the north, the south,
and from the west they came, yet they were
few; the choice ones of that People! And
they journeyed Eastward. With fearless
feet they walked among the plague-smitten
people of the world, and in the deserted
cities they tarried as they would. They
pitched their tents upon a mighty river, and
there grew upon its banks a great city.
Over it rested a cloud by day and a pillar of
fire by night. And I looked for the vener-
able Leader. He was there, but he had
been translated. And he talked with One,
a glorious, beautiful Man in form, whose
matchless beauty and whose kingly mien
proclaimed Him King of Kings and Lord of
Lords. Yet he walked and talked with the
people. I tried to get anear Him in the
vision, for He won my whole heart’s devo-
tion, but he turned His dazzling counten-
ance towards me, and I dropped the pebble
to cover my face with my hand, for I could
not bear the effulgence.
	The pebble was gone, the waves had
washed it away, and I stood as before,
alone on the sands of the Present, with the
Ocean of the Past behind me and the Sea
of the Future rippling at my feet.
