[Column 1]
of 1872, and after the Constitution was
framed and adopted he went to Washing-
ton with Hon. Thomas Fitch and Hon.
Frank Fuller, to present the Constitution
and apply for Utah’s admission to state-
hood again.
	In August, 1872, he was elected Delegate
to succeed Hon. W. H. Hooper, and was
re-elected four successive terms, making
five in all. His course in Congress was so
irreproachable, and his wisdom and judg-
ment so admirable that he won the respect
and confidence of all with whom he came
in contact. He was highly esteemed by all
as a man of refinement and excellent abili-
ty, and he never failed to win the confi-
dence and good-will of all whom it was his
duty or privilege to associate with, however
great their station in life or in affairs of
State.
	The latter part of the life of President
Cannon is perhaps better known to our peo-
ple than the earlier occurrences, although
he has really occupied a higher position in
the Church in later years. He has been
General Superintendent of the Sunday
School Union ever since its organization in
1867, which has grown to be such an im-
portant institution in Zion. He was a mem-
ber of the General Board of Education from
its organization, April 5, 1888, and he filled
many positions of public trust beside those
of the Church, always with credit to him-
self and the cause he represented. His
life was a very busy one, no man could do
more, his capacity for work of the best
quality seemed unlimited. His books are
all perfectly written and contain exalted
truths, and it would be well for the Saints
to read or re-read them and recommend
them especially to the youth of Zion, His
magazine articles written for various period-
icals were always worthy of the man and
his subject, and though the outside world
did not agree with his religious views, yet
his literary ability was admired by the
most competent judges.
	To the saints who are living he must
seem very real, for his work and its results
are everywhere apparent, he has left behind
him indeed a shining mark that will light
the way for all time. “He is not dead, but
sleepeth” is true of President George Q.
Cannon. His memory is more than a
shadow, it is engraven on the hearts of those
who heard his wonderfully magnificent
voice, his sublime teachings, his cordial
greetings on all occasions. The youth of
Zion should strive to attain to the same ex-
cellence in all they undertake, never give up
President Cannon was a self-made man, so
far as education of his own time, he was a
student of the Bible, but he had not the
opportunities for schools and colleges that
the young men of today enjoy, and yet he
surpassed most men of his time in the ac-
quirement of learning and accomplishments.
He regretted not having had the advantages
of a classical education, but his indomitable
perservance in the pursuit of knowledge
was almost unparalleled.
	President Cannon passed away surrounded
by near and loving relatives although far
from his own home and many dear ones,
yet in a beautiful spot in the old city of
Monterey, California, commanding a fine
view of the Bay, which was pleasant to look
out upon.
	Of his illness the public were almost
daily notified by telegrams to the friends at
home, which were published in the city
papers.
	The funeral services held in the large

[Column 2]
Tabernacle were numerously attended and
the great organ pealing forth its grandly
sublime notes awakened the tenderest emo-
tions of the human heart, albeit attuned to
sadness, and yet to victorious triumph.
	The first hymn by the choir was Presi-
dent Woodruff’s favorite, “God moves in a
mysterious way.” The prayer was offered
by Apostle F. M Lyman, and a male chorus
of the best singers rendered the funeral
anthem, “Not dead, but sleepeth.”
	The speakers of the occasion were the
Apostles and First Presidency, men with
whom his life had been spent in loving ser-
vice for the Gospel, and many glowing
tributes were paid to his memory by these
great and noble men who had labored with
him and knew whereof they spoke.
	During the service Elder R. C. Easton
rendered “Sister Eliza’s” immortal invo-
cation, “O, my Father,” in a most impres-
sive style, his superb voice filling the
Tabernacle with melody. A male quartette
gave beautifully, “O, Love Divine,” and
the last musical number was Evan Stephen’s
anthem, “When the Soul is Sad and Weary
Seek Relief in Prayer.”
	The white draping festooned with heavy
white silk cord and tassels and rosettes and
bows of white satin ribbon made the place
sacred and fitting for such service over one
whose life had been consecrated to the ser-
vice of his Lord and Master.
	The floral emblems were suggestive of the
various places he had filled and the work he
had performed. The flowers were the
choicest and rarest varieties to be obtained.
	The gift of the Sunday School was a large
open book encircled with a wreath and a
tablet with the words “The Childrens’
Friend.” From the family a floral mauso-
leum with solid roof, and floor of pink and
white carnations and roses, and columns
twined with smilax and flowers, the word
“Father” embedded in the banked flowers.
	There were many other exquisite floral
offerings and the effect was beyond any
mere description on paper or canvas, and
must have been seen to be realized or appre-
ciated. The fragrance and beauty com-
bined with the exquisite taste of the ar-
rangement reminded one of the poet who
wrote,

	“Flowers preach to us if we will hear.”

	After the funeral cortege had reached the
cemetery and while the casket was being
lowered into the grave the quartette rendered
the good old hymn, “Come ye disconsolate.”
	The grave was dedicated by Apostle
Anthon H. Lund, and Bishop John R.
Winder expressed, in behalf of the family,
gratitude for all the kindness and the at-
tention shown them in their time of sorrow
and affliction. The quartette sang, “When
the Swallows Homeward Fly.” The grave
was literally embowered in flowers. Presi-
dent Cannon was buried at the side of his
wife, Elizabeth, who died in 1882, and his
two sons, Abraham and David, and
other children.

